PUD PUD cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipped into it as soon as it comes out of tlie pot, wliicli will prevent its ad- hering to I he elotli. A bread-pudding should be tied loose : if batter, it must be tieil tight over, ana a batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. In ottiera, the eggs only. If you boil the pudding in a basin or pan, take care that it is always well buttered. When you make your puddings with- out eggs, they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil for three or four hours. A few spoonsfuls of small beer, or one of yeast, is the best substi- tute for eggs. Your puddings will al- ways be much lighter if you beat the yolks and whites of the eggs long and separately. You may, if you please, use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonsful will supply the place of one egg; the snow may be taken up from any clean spot be- fore it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Pudding, Derbyshire.*—Take a pint of milkand two table-spoonsful offlour; mix it by degrees, boil it till thick, and set it by till cold; then add three ounces of butter, beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs ; mix it thoroughly, put a paste round the dish, and bake it in a quick oven. It is very good cold. Pudding Franyais.* — To make this pudding it is necessary to have a dome- shaped mould, four inches deep, and six in diameter, and a cover to fit the top completely, both full of holes, like a cul- lender ; this mould must be buttered, and completely lined with a thin layer of paste, which must turn over its edges. Take two pounds of very round truffles, and, without washing, cut them into cir- cular pieces, a quarter of an inch thick j fry these lightly in a quarter of a pound of warm butter, with a large spoonful of fowl glaze, half a glass of madeira, a pinch of mignonette, a little grated nutmeg, and a proper auantity of salt. Then arrange the truffles in your lined mould, pour in nil the seasonings, turn the edges of the paste over them, and cover it besides with a layer of paste; put on the lid of the mould, tie it in a cloth, and boil it for an hour and a half. 7'he saucepan should be quite full of boiling water ; serve the pudding as quick as possible after it is taken up. Puddings Gcrtu(Ui,’-“^ pint ofcroam, two table-spoonsful offlour, the yolks of five two ounces of almonds bcntcn ( 424 ) a little, the crumb of a French roll, grated, sugar to your taste, the peels of two lemons, grated or shred small, and lastly, a quarter of a pound of butter, clarified and pul in cool; pour it into buttered cups, and bake them as cus- tards ; when you turn tliem out, pour over them melted butter, wine, and su- gar. Puddings in Haste.—Shred suet, and put it with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel, and gin- ger; mix, and make it into little balls, about the size and shape of an egg, with a liule flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. They take about twenty minutes lioiliug; but they will rise to the top when done. Pudding {Quaking). — Scald a quart of cream; when almost cold, add to it foureggswell beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth; boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, for fear it should break. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar, for sauce. Puddings. Queen’s.*—Slice some ap- ples as for fritters, butler a deep mould well; then put a layer of French roll cut very thin and dipped in butter melted without flour or water; then lay a layer of apples with sugar and letnon-peel grated; fill the mould in this way; if the apples require it, add some juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose; last of all, cover the mould before you put it into the oven. Puddings (Nelson).—Put half a dozen small cakes (called nelsnn-balls, or rice- cakes, made in small tea-cup.s) into a Dutch oven. When they are quite hot, pour over them melted butter, white wine, and sugar, and serve. Pudding d la Parisienne.*—Having minced a clove of the best vanilla, pound it with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and rub it through a sieve ; shred three quarters of a pound of veal suet, and half the quantity of beef-marrow, and six ounces of rice fliiur ; put these into a saucepan, adding to them seven yolks and two whole eggs, lialf a glass of cream, half a glass of maraschino, a pinch of salt, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, two ounces of whole pistachios, lour ounces of sweet macaroons bruised, the sugared vanilla, thirty preserved cherries, well drained, and each cut in half, and half a dozen apples chopped small; mix these ingredients together well, and then piit them into a well-buttered cloth ; tie it up, and fasten a weight of ten pounds to the centre of the pudding to prevent its falling to one side; put it into a large