FAR FAR 2.36 perfectly clean before you use it, otherwise the Espagnole will be thick and muddy. Espagnole Travuill6e.* — 'lake five Jndlesful of Espagnole, tliree olconsomine, and a handtul ol mushrooms; if the sauce be not sufficiently coloured, you may add some veal blond', boil these over a brisk fire ; skim and take off all the fat. When it is well reduced, strain it, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. This sauce should be of the consistence^ of clear broth. Half a bottle ol white wine may be added to this. ESSENCE.*—Take half a bottle of white wine, half a glass of the best vine- gar, the juice of two lemons, three ounces of salt, half an ounce of whole pepper, a little nutmeg and mace, four cloves, four bay-leave.s, thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten shalots, pounded, and an ounce of dry mush- rooms ; put all these ingredients into an earthen pan, over a brisk fire; when near boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for six or seven hours ; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and afterwards filter it. Keep it in closely corked bottles: a small quantity is sufficient to flavour a dish. F FANCHONETTES.* —Put into a saucepan, two ounces of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, two of pounded al- monds, some green lemon-peel, two yolks, and one whole egg, a little salt, and half a pint of milk; put these in- gredients on the fire, and let them set like a cream; line some tartlet-tins, or moulds, with puff paste, fill them with the preparation ; place the moulds on a tin, and bake t\ie. fanchonettes in a brisk oven; when about three parts done, take tliem out, put frothed eggs on, sprinkle sug.ar over, and replace them in the oven to finish the baking. FARCE, d la Or fine.—Make use of the panada and udder (see Panada for farces), but no herbs are required in the panada, instead of whict), put a little cream. Take the white flesh of a fowl that has been roasted ; take oft'the skin and sinews, chop the meat very fine; then poutid it as you do for other/aiwi'. Put in the yolks of four eggs, alter the farce has heen pounded and well sea- soned. Beat the whites of the eggs, and mix them gently with the rest, stir- ring the whole with a wooden-spoon. Use tliis farce when requisite ; it is ge- nerally used for Fowl a la Creme; if you have iti the larder a cold roast fowl, you may make that entree with it; empty the fowl, by cutting a square hole in the breast, the white flesh you makethe/arce with, and then replace it in the cavity, and proceed as directed in the receipt for Fowl d la Creme. Fauce, Cuile.*—Cut some undressed breast of fowl into dice, and put them into a stewpan with a small piece of but- ter, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; do them up over the fire for ten minutes, then take out the meat, drain, and let it cool; put a piece of bread into the same stewpan, with some broth and a little shred parsley ; stir it with a wooden spoon, and beat it up over the fire till the bread is of the consistence of panada, and the broth reduced, when it must be set to cool; then pound the fowl well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve ; do the same with the bread, and alter that a ready-dressed calf’s udder, keeping all separate ; then take equal portions of these three ingredients, and pound them together for three quarters of an hour ; at the end of that time, add the yolks of five or six eggs, according to the quantity of your farce, still pound- ing until the whole be well mixed toge- ther ; then take it from the mortar and set it aside in a pan for use. Faiice d Gratin of Partridges, Rab- bits, and Fowls.—The Farce a Gratin is made in the same manner as the Farce d la Creme, with the only difl'erence, that you must not beat the whites of the eggs, and that thi.s farce is to be kept delicate and soft. Use the flesh of roast- ed chickens, or young rabbits, or young partridges. This farce is intended for the stuffing of such articles as are not to be put on the fire again ; such as calf’s ears, calf’s feet, larks an gratin, &c. Farce, Omelet of.*—Take any meat, game, or fowl/arce you please ; pour on it a dozen eggs well beaten, and Iry your omelet, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness all over. Farce d Quenelles.*—Put the crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with two table-spoonsful offowl consomme, one of veloute, a tea-spoonful of parsley, and two of mushrooms (both shred fine); set it on a moderate fire till it boils; stir it constantly, and when it forms a smooth, softish paste, add the yolks of two egp; then put it on a plate, and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. Take the fillets from two fat chickens, and having removed the skin, pound and rub them through a sieve; proceed in the same way with tworc.idy-dressed calf’s udders and the panada or bread, \yhen you liave proceeded so far, weigh six ounces of panada, ten of the chicken, and eight of the udder, pound the two former to- gether for a quarter of an hour; tu^d add the panada, and having pounded