B O I ( 5 Boilixg. — Moat before boiliner or roastiiiB slioiikl be washed, an<l it is im- proved in colour by soakintf. Forroiist- ing or baking, however, before it is put on the spit or in tlie oven, it should be wiped and dried. _ It is impossible to complete the opera- tion of boiling without due care in skim- ming the pot. The instant the water approaches boiling heat, the scum which rises to the surface must be cleared oH'; and in this early state of the process, from the operation of the heat disengag- ing the coagulated matter, which thus floats, the skimming must be patiently followed up, or it will attach itself to the meat, and thereby spoil its appearance. The cook must not neglect to skim dur- ing the whole process, though the coa- gnlum rises less frequently the longer it boils. By strict attention to this impor- tant part of the process of boiling, the custom of wrapping the meat in a cloth, may be dispensed with. Indeed, the only reason assigned for this, is to pre- serve its appearance ; whilst, it the pot be carefully skimmed, the meat will be cooked clean and pure, and come out of the vessel in which it is boiled, still more delicate, white and firm, than when so wrapped up—the flavour too is im- proved by the absence of the cloth. The learned in the art of boiling re- commend dillerent periods for the com- pletion of the process, some allowing fifteen minutes to each pound—others twenty, and some even more. All the best authorities, however, as Dr. Kit- chiner, Accum, _Mrs. Kundell, and others, agree in this, that the longer the boiling, the more perfect the operation. The French cuisinier may claim the honours of a scientific stew, but the Eng- lish cook against the whole world for a delicate boil. It is of consequence, as before said, to suit the cooking vessel to the joint, for there should be no space for super- fluous water. The scientific allowance being about a pint of water to a pound of meat. It is siiflicicnt that the joint be entirely covered, as the richness of the juices are best preserved in propor- tion to the least quantity of water. The liquor, indeed, thus becomes broth, and should be consequently preserved, to use for that useful purpose, as by thus slowly boiling, or simmering, it imbibes no inconsiderable portion of savoury nutriment. As the water wastes whilst boiling by evaporation,the potsliould be replenish- ed, for the water must constantly cover the meat. A little cold water, too, ac- 2 ) B 0 U celerates the rising of the scum to the suifacc. When taken from the pot, the meat must be carefully wiped, ^me use a clean cloth for this purpose, but aspunge previously dipped in hot water, and wrung dry, is more convenient. This is done by wringing 'and cleansing the sponge in hot water prepared at hand. Be careful not to let the meat stand, but send it to table with all convenient speed, or it will darken in complexion, and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roast, cannot be served too hot. BOUCHEES de Dames,*—Mix with six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, three ounces of potatoe-flour, a little salt, and a pinch of dried orange flowers : beat them together well, and having buttered a tin, lay your paste on it, and bake it in a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour; when done, cut it in pieces, about the size of a crown piece, and glaze them, mask them according to your pleasure, and dry them in the oven. Bouchees {Pelites), de Dames,*— Take two ounces of spoon-biscuit paste, and lay it on paper, about the size of a half-crown, cover them wiih sifted sugar, and put them in a moderate oven as soon as the sugar dissolves; take them out when properly done, and remove them from the paper and and let them cool; then mask the unglazed side (that which was next the paper), with apricot mar- malade, as you do two, join them to- gether ; when all are done, put a quwter of a pound of sugar and the white of an egg into a pan, and stir it about with a silver spoon for ten minutes, adding now and then a little lemon juice to keep it white; ice the bouchies de dames all over with this mixture, place them on paper, and put them just within the oven, that they may dry, without chang- ing colour. Bouchees (Peiites), Glades.*—Roll some pufT-paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and with a plain round paste-cutter, of two inches diame- ter, cut out as many cakes as you may require; then with a smaller cutter, take out the middle of half the number, so as to make rings of them; moisten the edges of the former, and lay the rings on them ; wet them also as yon lay them down, sprinkle them lightly with powder- sugar, and hake them in a brisk oven. These bouchees require great attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to dissolve and colour too quickly ; when done, they should be of a reddish tinge. Fill them with sweetmeats, preserves, or whipped cream, according to fancy.