ORA ( 361 ) ORA 1 may rise; after that time break up the paste, and roll it into little bands the size of your little finger, which cut bias into pieces five inches in length, and form them into little rings, joining the bias ends very neatly ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, stir the sur- face lightly in order to make the blettes rise, and prevent them irom sticking to each other; in a few minutes drain, and put them into cold water ; w'hen quite cold, drain th.em again, dorez, and place them on lightly waxed copper- plates ; put them in a slow oven, and bake them to a nice colour. Orange Ice*—Take ten fine blood oranges, peel, and divide them into quar- ters ; take out the pips and heart, and then pound them with the grated rinds of two of the oranges; put them into a strong cloth, and press out all the juice, which mix with half a pound of sugar, previously dissolveil in a pint uf water ; ut this mixture into a sorbetiereor ice- ox, and ice it as directed. (See Ice.) Orange Jelly. — Put two quarts of spring-water into a saucepan, with half a pound of hartshorn shavings, or four I ounces of isinglass, and boil it gently till I it becomes a strong jelly. Take the I juice of three Seville oranges, three le- [ mons, and six China oranges, the rind of I one Seville orange and one lemon, pared I very thin ; put them to your jelly, I sweeten with loaf-sugar to your taste, I beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, 1 mix them well in. and boil it for ten [minutes; then run it through a jelly- bag till it is very clear, put it into your moulds, and let it stand till it is tho- I roughly cold ; then dip your moulds in [ warm water, and turn them into a China n dish or flat glass I Orange Jelly en Rubans.* — Prepare the rinds of seven oranges as directed (see oranges en eur/:rise), and make half the quantity of jelly ; take an equal quan- tity of blanc-mange, and whilst the peels are in ice, put into each a dessert spoon- ful of the latter; as soon as this is con- gealed, pour on it a spoonful and a half of orange-jelly; let that set, and add two spoonsful of blanc-7)iange, then two of jelly, and so on till the peels are filled; when quite ready for table, cut them carefully.into quarters, and arrange them with taste, on a dish, or in a confectionary ba'-ket. Orange (Treoi.ifiaren.t) Jelly.* — Take the juice of twelve oranges and two le- mons, having taken care that none of the pips are in, pare two of the sweetest oranges as thin as possible, put the juice and rind into a bag, and when it has filtered through, mix it with the syrup tinged with cochineal, add the isinglass, and finish it in the usual manner. (See Fruit Jelly.) OnAUGE Juice Buttered.—Take seven Seville oranges, squeeze the juice from them, and mix it with four spoonsful of rose-wa'cr, and add the whole to the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, well beaten ; strain the liquor to half a pound of pounded sugar, and stir it over a moderate fire, and as soon as it begins to thicken, add to it a bit of Imt- ter about the size of a walnut; keep it a few minutes longer ever the fire; then pour it into a dish, and serve cold. Orange Juice to Keep.* — To every pint of juice put three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar; let it boil a little, and then put it into bottles. Orange Loaves.—Cut the fruit into halves, squeeze them and preserve the liquor; boil the peels in several waters, to take out the bitterness; then let them lay for two days in syrup ; boil the. syrup again after that period to a good consistency, add the peels, afterwards put them into glasses for use ; when they are wanted, take what quantity is sufficient foradish,and fill them with some pudding mixture, either marrow, bread, plum, &c. or with a custard, and bake them carefully. Orange Marmalade.*— Take eight Seville oranges, three lemons, pare them very thin, take out all the juice and pulp, lay the peels in water twenty-four hours, changing them once or twice, lay them on a coarse cloth to drain ; then take the weight of juice, pulp, and peel, in lump sugar; boil the whole a quarter otan hour or twenty minutes; the peel should be cut in long narrow slips ; be careful not to leave any seeds or white part of the rind. Orange Marinalade.*—Take the peels of fibeen oranges (without any of the white), blanch them till tender; then put them into cold water; in a few minutes take them out, drain and pound them to a paste, which rub through a sieve: weigh it, and for each pound allow a pound and half of sugar, clarify and boil the latter io fort perlc; add the paste and boll them together, stirring con- stantly till the marmalade is done, which may lie known thus: take some up be- tween your thumb and finger, and, if on op“ningthem, the marmalade draws out like a thread, it is at the right point, and may he pwt into pots. Orange Posset.—Squeeze thejuire of two Seville oranges into a china bowl or small deep dish that will hold about a quart, sweeten it like syrup, add a little brandy ; boil one pint of crcuui with a 2 1