AND 12 A N G inches wide; take up tlie cuttings, put them in the remainder of the paste, roll it out thin as before, place them on a baking- tin, slightly wetted, a quarter or half an inch apart; moisten tliem a little, and lay on each some farcefine of anchovies ; wash and scrape as many fillets of anchovies ss you \\nxepelits patis, roll them into little halls, and place one on every then lay over it the puff-paste, and press it down with another paste-cutter, hall an inch less in diameter than tlie former; turn tip the edges of the paste, dnrez them highly, and bake them of a reddish colour in aquick oven. Anchovy Powder.—Pound the fish and rub them through a sieve, make into a paste with dried flour ; roll it into thin cakes, and dry them before a slow fire. Pound it very fine, and put into well- corked bottles ; it will keep a long time. Anchovy Salad.*—Dress a young cos-lettuce, as usual, garrii.shed with eggs boiled hard and sliced, and herbs, &c. cut small. Add a dozen of anchovies well cleaned and cut in slips. Anchovies Stuffed.*—Split, wash, and take the bones from the anchovies, and fill them with a gooA/arce ; dip them in a batter and fry of a good colour. Anchovy Sauce.—Toabout halfapint ofjnelted butter, put two table-spoonsful of good essence of anchovies, with the juice of half a lemon. Serve very hot. Anchovy Sauce au Icnrie.*—Reduce some sauce Espagnole., and jVst before you want it for table, put into it a piece of an- chovy bit tier, about half the size of an egg, and some lemon-juice ; take care that the butteris warm, and keepstirringii, to mix it well with the sauce. If you should have no Espagnole, any brown sauce you please may be used. Anchovy Saube au heurre.*—Wash some anchovies, take out the bones, and scale them. When they are quite dry, cut them in pieces, and pound them to a paste, and mix them up with double their weight of fresh butter. To make a sauce of this, put in some Spanish sauce when lukewarm, or some white wine; Slew them together, stirring conti- nually. Lemon juice may he added; strain it; if too thick, add a little coh- ttommie. Anchovy 7'o«s/.*—Cutsomethin slices of hiead r.boutthe length and breadth of a finger; fry them in oil. Place them on a dish, and pour on them a sauce made of oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsley, scal- lion, and shallots, cut up tegether. Then cut the anchovies into thin slices, and lay them on the toast. ANDAYE Brand*!.*—i\n ounce of bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised co- riander seed, two ounces of powdered Florence iris, the zestes of two oranges; ut them with three quarts of distilled randy intothealembic bain-marie ; dis- solve two pounds and a half of sugar in two pints and a half of clear river water, add them to the distilled liqueur, pass the whole through a strainer, and put into bottles. ANGELICA Cakes. *—Take fou r ounces of angelica powder, and two pounds of fine sugar. Beat up the white of an egg with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the su- gar in a skillet and skim it; when it has boiled a little, throw in the angelica, and boil the sugar to petit casse\ thea take it from the fire, put in halfa spoonful of the beaten egg, and stir it quickly until the sugar rises, then stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till it rises a second time; it may now be poured into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and sprinkled with sifted sugar. Angelica {essence of) Jelly.—Having washed and well dried two ounces of angelica-roots; cat them in pieces and throw them into boiling syrup, (three quarters of a pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised angelica seeds; cover the mixture ciose, and when cold, add to it half a glass of kirscAwasser, and pass it through a tammy ; then filter, and after- wards put to it an ounce of isinglass : stir it lightly with a silver spoon ; pound ten pounds of ice, and put it into a large sieve or pan, place your mould in the middle of the ice, takingcare thatit touches the ice in every' part; pour the jelly into the mould, cover it with a saucepan lid, put ice on that, and let it stand for three hours; after that time have ready a saucepan large enough to take in the mould easily; fill it with water so warm that you can scarcely bear your hand in it; plunge the mould in .'o as to allow the water to passoverthe whole, but as quickly as possible, and then turn the jelly into your dish for table. This Last operation shoiiW be pet formed with great agility. Observe, in making these kinil of jellies, that no tinned or pewter ve.'-sclsor spoons should be used, as they impart a violet tinge to yottr jellies, which ought to be of the colourof the ingredients employed,.as for instatice the above should be a clear light green colour. Asgei.\c\ Liqueur.*—tVash,scrape, and rut in small pieces, twelve ounces of fresh, or halt the quantity of Bohemhan angelica roots, and infuse them for a week in six pints of br.iniiy andoneof water, with a drachm of mare, two drachms of cinna- mon, .and twelve cloves; at the end of that time distil it then dissolve threi