( 63 ) B I S s'ft a pound of fine flour, and when cold mix it witli the eggs and sugar, beat all together for a quarter of an hour, drop Upon paper, sift sugar over, and •bake them. , . Biscuits Drops.—Beat a pound ol sugar, the yolks of four, and whites ot two eggs, with a little white wine, then put in a pound of flour, and a few seeds, mix all well together. Butter a paper, lay your batter on in spoonfuls, ice them witli line sugar, and set them in a gentle oven. Biscuits(//ffrrf).*—Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it very thin, and cut into biscuits, prick and bake for about six minutes. Biscuits {Iced).—Beat up the whites of eight, and the yolks of six eggs, with a pound of fine powdered sugar, for two hours. Have ready fourteen ounces of well-dried sifted flour; when the oven is ready and your plates buttered, mix the flour as quick as possible with the eggs, &c., and lay the biscuits on the plates; you mayadd a little muskaiid ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. Biscuit Ice Cream.—Break six_ eggs into a stewpan, and beat them with a wooden spoon ; add a pint of cream, the peel of a lemon, two gills of syrup, and a little spice ; boil it till it begins to thicken, stirring constantly; crumble some Na- ples and ratafia biscuits into it, and pass the whole through a sieve, and put it into the mould, which place in ice as directed. (See Ice.) Biscuit iced., a la Royale.*—Make a Savoy biscuit of nine eggs, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and five ounces of potatoe-flour, with the addition of a lit- tle pulverised iris and orange-flower; bake it in an octagon mould, and let it cool. Make an icing with ten ounces of sugar, and one and a half whites of eggs ; mix them together with a wooden or silver spoon, putting in a few drops of lemon-juice occasionally; when very white, divide it into two equal parts, to •one of which add a little carmine to make it of a delicate rose-colour ; with these two icings, glaze, alternately, each angle of the biscuit very carefully ; keep it thin and even ; smooth it with the blade of a knife. Biscuit a I’ltalienne.*—Bake a bis- cuit, made like Iced biscuit, in a plain, round mould; cut it across, in slices an inch thick ; pour on each slice a spoonful of true maraschino, and when tiiey have imbibed this, place them in their proper I form, and mask the whole, either with B I S white of egg and sugar, as biscuit witli sweetnieats, or with apricot marmalade, on which strew pounded macaroons. Biscuits, Italian IFater.—Whisk up six eggs, and an equal weight of powder- sugar, for half an hour. Take six more eggs and their weigh t of flour, and mix all together, and lay this mixture on paper, in cakes the eighth of an inch thick, and about two inches diameter ; lay them quite flat, and do not let them touch. The oven should be hot; five minutes will bake them. When cold, wet the un- der side of the paper, and they will then remove easily. Biscuits, Jessatnine.—The Spanish jessamine is the best, but if not to be pro- cured, take English jessamine flowers, clean picked from the stalk; beat them well in a marble mortar, and put to them the whites of eggs and powdered sugar, and lay sugar under them in a dish, or on papers; cover them with sugar, and bake them in a gentle oven. Biscuits, — Break six eggs into a basin, and ivhisk them well for five minutes, add half a pound of powder- sugar, and whisk again for ten minutes longer; put some carraway-seeds and half a pound of dry sifted flour; mix them all together with a wooden spoon. iDrop them on paper about the size of a crown-piece, and thick in the middle; sift sugar over, and bake them in a brick oven. Take them off the paper while hot. Biscuits, King’s.—Put half a pound of butter into a basin, and work it about well with a wooden spoon; break six eggs and whisk them well, add half a pound of powder-sugar, and whisk ten minutes longer, and then mix them with the but- ter; stir in six ounces of currants, and the same of dried flour. When all is well mixed, drop it, the size of a shilling, on paper, and bake in a quick oven. Take them off while hot. Biscuits {large) to cut in Pieces.*— Break ten eggs, put the whites in one, and the yolks in another vessel; add to the latter, a pound of powder-sugar, a little lemon-peel, orange-flowers, and salt, mix these together well; whip the whites quite firm, and then put to them the yolks, lightly, sift over them three quarters of a pound of dried flour, stir- ring all together carefully. Put this pre- paration into paper cases, glaze and bake them in a slow oven for an hour. When cold cut them into such forms as you may think proper, and ice them. You may vary the flavour and colour of these bis- cuits as you please, by mixing any co- louring material with the icing, and by rubbing the fruit which they snould be G 2 I