BEE 48 BEE butter or batter; let them drain, and then simmer them in love-apple sauce ; serve them on a dish with love-apple sauce over them. Bkef Ears.—Beef ears, well scalded like calves, may be made tender in a strong braze, full of strong herbs and spices; theyshould be afterwards broiled, and served with a cullis or relishing sauce. Beef d I'icarlate."—Take a rump of beef, bone it, lard it, season it with salt and spices, rub it well with saltpetre. Put it into a pan with juniper berries, tby me,basil,garlick,laurel leaves,clovea, and onions cut in slices ; cover the pan close, so as to exclude all air. At the end of five or six days, turn your beef, co- ver the pan again, and let it remain for five or six days longer; then take it out of the pan, put it in a clean cloth and tie it with packthread, then put it into a stew- pan with some water, carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, let it stew for se- veral hours, according to the size of your meat. When it is done, serve it in a tu- reen, and pour over it the liquor in which it has stewed. You may serve it the next day as a cold dish. Beef (Entre-cote of) Broiled.*—Take the sliceof beef which isobtained between any two of the ribs, and take out the si- newy parts, then cut it to aliout the thick- ness of two fingers, beat it flat, andspriii- kle it over with salt and pepper. Put it on the gridiron over a clear fire. When itisdone, serve itwith asause(i/nmaifre d’hdtel or a sauce piguante. Beef (Fillet of) d VAmiral.—Slice five or six onions, and fry them in butter; then take two anchovies, split them into seve- ral pieces, a little grated bacon, two yolks of eggs, a little salt, and powder of basil; scald the fillet of beef in boiling water, cut in different slices without separating, and between them put some of the stuf- fing, tie it up in veal caul and roast it; serve with cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. Beef (Fillet of) and Anchovies.—Soak five or six anchovies in water about two hours, split them, and lay the fillet with them intermixed with bacon ; boil it on a slow fire, with a little broth and a glass of white wine, one clove of garlick, two cloves, and a faggot; when done, sift the sauce, add a liit of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of creamj and a few small capers whole ; make a liaison, and serve it upon the fillet. Beef (Fillet of) en Chevreuil.*—Take a piece of the fillet (about a pounds, and cut it into four or five parts ; after hav- ing cut off' the fat and taken out the sinewy parts, beat and lard your fillets, then put them in a marinade made with vinegar and a little water, sliced onions, salt, parsley, laurel, and a clove of gar- lic. When they have marinated forfour- and-twenty hours, take them out and squeeze them in a cloth, then put a piece of butter into a tossing pan, and when it is melted, fry your fillets in it; when they are sufficiently done and well browned, put them on a cloth to drain : serve them on a dish over pieces of fried bread, and pour over the whole a sauce poivrade, love-apple sauce, or sauce piguante. The sauce must be boiling hot. Beef (Fillet of), with Endive.—Pre- pare the fillet the same as for roasting and jarding (receipt the second), and dish it with a ragoff t of endive under it. Beef (Fillet of) d V bitendante.— Make force-meat with fowls’ livers, grat- ed bacon,alittle butter, parsley,shallots, mushrooms, three yolks of eggs, and fine spices ; cut a fillet of beef into two, and flatten it withthecleaver,lard itthrough with middling lardons, then lay the forced meat upon it, and tie it in a cloth ; boil it in broth, a glass of white wine, and a faggot of sweet herbs ; when done, serve with it a ragoftt of sweetbreads, or truffles, &c. Beef (Fillet of) with Love Apple Sauce.—Prepare your fillet the same as for roasting and larding (receipt the second), and dish it over love-apple sauce. Beef (Fillet of) in Madeira.*—Lard a good fillet of beef, the same as for roast- ing, join the ends together, and place it in this manner in a stewpan, with some onions, carrots, and a Ooiiguet garni, some consomnii, and Madeira, cover it with a buttered paper; let it boil for a moment, and afterwards let it boil slowly. Put fire upon the top of your stewpan. When it is done strain the broth through a silk sieve, reduce it, and serve it as a sauce to your meat. Beef (Fillet of) d la Polonaise.*— Take out the nerves and skin from a fillet of beef, and mince the fillet as small as possible, mince some onions equally small, (mince a sufficient num- ber to have exactly the same quantity of minced onions as minced beef), then mince some lemon peel, (the same as for sauce bigarade); the whole thus pre- pared, melt some butter in a stewpan; when melted, put into it first a layer of onions, then a layer of beef, and so on till your beef is used. Between each layer put butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cinnamon, lemon, and grated bread. Then put your stewpan into an oven, and let your preparation bake for three hours. After tins, work the whole well