C II I 161 ) CHI I swelled; then season it, and fill two chickens with half of it (have s sufficient quantity to stuli’them quite full). Wrap them in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them for an hour; mix one spoon- ful of cream and four of bechamelle with the remainder of tlie rice ; season it well, and cover the chickeas with it, and serve them. Chickens with Vegetables * — Cut some young and tender artichokes in quai-ters; take out the choke, and cutoff the ends of the green leaves; blanch and boil them in stock, with slices of lemon ; when nearly done, drain them, and do them up in aslewpan, with some butter, parsley, scallions, and shalots, stock, a little oil, salt, pepper, and fen- nel; reduce this sauce, and having boiled or pale-roasted two chickens, pour it over, and place the artichokes round them. Instead of artichokes, any of the following vegetables may be used ; chards, sorrel, spinach, lettuce, cucum- bers, French beans, morels, pease, or salsify. Chickens d la Venitienne.*—Parboil two or three fat chickens in some stock, with a little butter, and having cut them up, lay them in a stevvpan lined with slices of bacon; surround them with well blanched parsley roots, and put in a bunch of green parsley. Cover the pieces of chicken with slices of veal, salt and pepper, and moisten with consomme; let it stand over a moderate fire, and when half done, add a glass of white champagne. When done, arrange the pieces on a dish, and place the parsley roots and leaves round; reduce the sauce, and pour it, with Seville orange-juice, on the whole. You may omit the wine, if you think proper ; but roots of any sort you please must then be added. Chickens d la Villageoise.—Take out the breast-bones of a couple of chickens, and truss them as for boiling; lard them on the breast with sprigs of parsley, and on the sides with bacon; roast them; baste with lard to keep the parsley crisp. In the meanwhile prepare a ragodt of cucumbers; split open the breasts of the chickens when they are ready, and put in the i-agobt. Serve with cullis under them. Chicken fVater. — Take a cock, or large fowl, flay it; then bruise it with a hammer, and put it into a gallon of water, with a crust of bread. Let it boil half away, and strain it off Chicke.vs {Fillets of) d la Bechamelle Pannee.—Cntoft'the hind parts (the legs and rumps) wrap the breasts in buttered papers and roast them ; when cold, cut them in fillets and put them into a dish with bechamelle sauce ; strew bread- crumbs on them, and baste with melted butter; colour it with a salamander, .or in the oven. Chicken {Fillets of) in Italian Salad. —Cut the fillets of one or two chickens, each into three thin slices. Shred a cabbage, a lettuce, and some celery small; slice some cucumbers, and mix them all with a little pickled chervil, and put them in a salad-dish, arrange the fillets on these in the shape of a star. Garnish them with twohard eggs, half a doz»n an- chovies shred small, a few French beans, a cauliflower boiled, and a sliced cu- cumber, and dress it with Italian salad sauce. Chickens {Fillets of) in Savory Jelly. —Cut the meat of two roasted chickens into thin fillets, the size of a shilling ; prepare some savory or aspic jelly, by putting the whites ol four eggs in a kew- pan, about three spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt; beat them up with a fork, pour two quarts of good consomme, stir it over the fire, continu- ally, till it boils; then take out the spoon and let it simmer till reduced to half. Run it gently through a jelly-bag, throw in a little chopped tarragon and chervil; half fill a mould with the jelly, and when nearly set, place the chicken neatly round, and wlien quite set, fill it up. When the whole is quite stiff, dip the mould in warm water a minute, and turn out the jelly. Chickens {Turbans of Fillets of) a kc Sultane.—Cover a large piece of bread with thin slices of bacon ; place it in the middle of a dish, and surround it to the height of three inches, with a farce il quenelles that has been kept in ice, stick in this, at equal distances, larded filets mignons of chickens; cover the dish with an earthen pan as close as possible, and bake it; when done, glaze the filets, and make a small hole in the farce be- tween each filet to receive a cock’s kid- ney, which must be very white, so as to resemble a pe.ari. Take the bread from the centre, drain the fat oft'with crumb of bread, and put in its place a blanquette of chickens. If truffles are in season, garnish with a ball made out of a truffle, and the perle o>.- kidney ; and then scol- lops, with truffles, in the middle. Chickens {Scollops of) d la Conti.— 1 toceed as above; reserve the filets mignons, garnish with truffles, cut into various shapes; lard the filets, and di- vide the thickest part of each ; preserve the_ right side point, turn over the two divided parts, and give them the shape of .m arrow, or you may make them in P 3