( 504 ) woo woo nine,but witii litile success: from the resemblance to the apple and pear, it is better adapted to the making of cyder. The principal defect in the manufac- ture of British wines, is the great quan- tity of sugar generally employed. If a much larger proportion offruit were used, the wine would not only possess a more decided character, but be of a higher quality, and of a much more wholesome nature. Wine {Madeira) Sauce.*—Take a tea- spoonful of flour, and a preserved green lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a glass of Madeira wine, and a little con- somme, add an ounce of butter, some salt and nutmeg; set these on a very hot stove to boil for a quarter of an hour; then take it oflj put in a quarter of a pound of butter, set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till the butter is melted. WOODCOCKS.—The greatest possi- ble care should be taken, in picking of these birds, to handle them as little as possible, on account of the skin being so particularly tender, and when broken it spoils the beauty of the bird. When picked, cut off' the pinions at the first joint, press the legs close to the side, through which, and the body, pierce the beak of tlie bird; then cioss the feet, and lay a slice of bacon over the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be dressed according to the same, rules. Woodcocks.— Take a pound of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and pat it into a saucepan, vvith_ two quarts of water, an onion stuck with cloves, two blades of mace, and some whole pepper; boil all these together till reduced to half; then strain it off into another saucepan ; draw the woodcocks, and lay the trail in a plate ; put the woodcocks into the gravy, and letlheni boil in it fortwelve minutes; while they are boiling, mince the trail and liver very small ; put them into a small saucepan, with a little mace; add four or five spoonsful of the gravy the woodcocks are boiled in ; then take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine into a dish placed before the fire, and put to the trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in flour, set it on the fire, ami shake it round till the butter is melted ; then put in the bread-crumbs, and shake the saucepan round; lay tlie woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Woodcocks.—These are dressed much in the same manner as woodcocks d la Duchesse, only that truffles are added to the lorccmeat. Woodcocks d la Buc/tescc.—Split six woodcocks down the back, and take out all the inside to make a farce, with two pounded anchovies, half a spoonful of capers, parsley, shalots,and mushrooms, all chopped very small, and mixed with a good bit of butter, a little scraped ba- con, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and salt; put this into the woodcocks, sew them up close, and braise them with a few slices of veal, and one slice of ham; cover them with thin slices of bacon; add a glass and a half of red wine, and a few spoonsful of ctillis: when done, strain, and skim the sauce, and thicken it with butter and flour. Woodcocks Farced.—Split the wood- cocks at the back, take out all the inside, and mix it with a liitle scraped bacon, chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, aud salt; stuff'the woodcocks with this, and sew them up; wrap them in slices of bacon, and over that, paper; then put them down to roast; serve with what sauce or ragmityon think best. Woodcocks d la Franqaise. — Pick, draw, and truss them ; lard their breasts with broad pieces of bacon ; roast them, and serve them upon toasts dipped in verj'uice. Woodcocks Minced en Crouslades.*— Take the meat from some cold roasted woodcocks, clear away all the sinews and sk'n, and mince it as fine as possible. Pound the intestines (except the gizzard) and remnants of the birds. Put .a glass of Champagne wine, and three shalots into a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up a few times, add four ladlesful of reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze of game; boil these, aud then put in the pounded meat; stir them well to- gether, taking care it does not boil; strain the puree, and keep it hot. Make nine heart-shaped croutons, as usual (see Fillets en canapes), and when cleai ed out, put the mince to the puree, mix them to- gether with some butter, and then fill the hearts with it, and dish them, tl c ' points inwards; lay a poached egg on each, atid serve then>. Woodcocks in a Minute.*—Put a brace of woodcocks into a frying-pan, with some butter, shred shalots. grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; set the pan on a fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for .seven or eiglit minutes; then arid the juice of two lemons, half a gl.ass of white wine, and some rasping.s; and leave them on the fiie till tlie sauce has boiled up once ; tlien servo altogether. Woonci^CK Pie {Odd). — When the woodcocks are picked, take out tb.e en- trails, .ami put them aside, and truss the birds, as for roasting; fl.iitcn the bre.ast- bone, and broil then over a dear char-