410 P I s P I s tlie cloves in the brandy for two months, when strain it througti a linen cloth ; dis- solve the sugar in the water, tlien mix it with the brandy ; filter and bottle it. PIPER, Baked.* — The fish, when thoroughly emptied and cleaned, is stall- ed with the 8araeingredients,and dressed like baked jack or pike. Pipers, io Dress.—They may be baked or tioiled with a pudding well seasoned. If they are baked, a large cupful of rich broth should be put into the dish, and when done, take the broth, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them together for sauce. PiTEn {Fillets of) d la Sefton.—Take the flesli from a large piper, and cut into slices, all the same shape ; put these into a pan with clarified butter, pepper, and salt; fry them lightly, and when done, serve them ; make a sauce as follows:— put four spoonsful of the best vinegar, a small quantity of tarragon, and twenty peppercorns into a stewpan, set it on the lire, and let it stand till reduced to a fourth ; then add two spoonsful of con- somme, six of sauce tournee, and reduce these also over a large lire; strain and replace it; when it boils put in the yolks of twoeggs, a bit of butter, and stir it well ; pour this over the fillets of piper when sent to table. This sauce must be quite white; but if, by any chance, it should be browned, add a small quantity of cream. Season with salt and cayenne. PISTACHIO Blancmange.*—Blanch four ounces of pistachios, pound them with half an ounce of preserved cedrat, dilute the paste with a glass of water, and then extract the milk by squeezing it very tight in a napkin ; mix with the milk six ounces of powder-sugar, and an ounce of isinglass. Take a pound of sweet almonds, pound them to a fine paste, which dilute with three glasses of water, extract the milk as above ; divide this into two parts, putting to one part the pistachio milk, and a small quantity of spinach essence ; and to the other, six ounces of sugar dissolved in a glass of ■warm water, and half an ounce of i^in- plass, and finish it according to the di- rections for T'iolet Jelly. Pistachio Biscottes.*—Mix together in a pan a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar, the same of flour, well dried and sifted, and the, yolks of five eggs; bent them for ten minutes, add two ounces of whole pistachios, and then spread it on a buttered baking-tin ten inches long and five wide; lay it of an equal thick- ness, strew over two ounces of pistachios, cut crosswise ; put this in n gentle oven for forty or fitly minutes; then take it out, and cut it into pieces, two inches and three eighths long, and half an inch wide; replace them in the oven to dry. Almonds or filberts may he used instead. Pistachio —Take a pound of pistachio nuts, two ouncesof sweet al- monds, the whites of sixteen, and yolks of eight eggs, two ounces of flour, and a pound of powder-sugar. Blanch and pound the pistachios and almonds, moist- ening occasionally with white of egg; beat the whites and yolks separately, with the latter half the sugar, and some grated lemon-peel; when both are thoroughly beaten join them together, beating con- stantly, and as you do so, sift over them the flour and remainder of the sugar, then the almonds and pistachios. Have some paper cases ready, into which pour your preparation ; glaze, and bake the biscuits in a moderately heated oven. ViSTAcn\oBiscuils,SovJJlies.*--)i\a.rc\\ a quarter of a poundof pistachios, halfof which cut in slices, and the other half mince small. Whip the whites of three eggs very firm, and then mix with them the sliced pistachios and half a pound of sifted sugar; have,ready a number of small paper cases about an inch square; put your preparation into them, taking care they are not more than half full, sprinkle powder-sugar over, and as soon as that is dissolved,strew the minced pis- tachios, and put them in a gentle oven, and colour them of a reddish yellow. Pistachio Cnnnellons.* — Peel six ounces of pistachio.s, and six bitter al- monds, and pound them, with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and a little white of egg, to a fine paste, to which add a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar to make it tolerably firm. Roll this paste on a sheet of pa;ier to about tlie size of your finger, cut it into pieces two inches long, dip them into batter, and fry your can- nellonsXo a nice colour, drain and sprinkle them with powder-sugar, and serve them. Pistachio Cream an Bain-riiarie *— Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and eight hitler almonds; when reduced to a fine paste, put it into six glasses of boiling miik; cover tl.c infu- sion, but before it is quite cold squeeze the milk through a cloth. Mix in a pan ten ounces of powder-sugar with aspoon- ful of spinach essence strained ; ihen add a whole egg, ten yolks, and .a g'aincf salt; pour the infusion to this, a little at a time, stir it well, run it tlirough a sieve, and finish according to rule, (tire Cream an Bain marie.) Pistachio Cream 7cc.*—Blanch .and wash half a pound of pistachios, and wh>-n perfectly dry. imund them to a fine paste wi th alittlccrcam and lemon-i>ecl; put Ihia