ANI AN I ( 14) distances, and bake them in aquick oven. When done, the should be a clear reddish colour, something like caramel sugar. Cover them with the whites of eggs whipped to a strong froth, and on this add red anise,and garnish tliem with cream blanche, white currant jelly, apri- cot or apple marmalade. These houchies may also he done in a similar way with white anise, in which case they should be garnished with red currant jelly, or whipped cream ii la rose. Aniseed Cakes.*—Put in an earthen pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and the yolks of ten eggs ; stir them together with a wooden spoon for half an hour. In the meantime have the whites of your eggs whipped to a thick snow, and then pour in the sugar and yolks. When tho- roughly mixed, add an ounce of good aniseed, previously washed and dried, and ten ounces of flour; stir the whole gently, and then with a spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about the size of a crown-piece.; sprinkle them with fine sugar, and bake. Remove them from the paper, while hot, with a knife. Anise Croquettes de Verdun.*—Put four ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of powder sugar, and the yolks of five eggs into a small pan, and work them well to- gether for a quarter of an hour ; then add four drachma of anise Uoili, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Lay this preparation (the same as directed for cro- quettes d la Parisienne) upon tins lightly buttered, then mask them with white anise, and let them bake in a moderate oven until they are coloured, then sepa- rate them from each other. Anise petits Dents de Loup de T’er- Put four ounces of sifted flour, our ounces of sugar in powder, and the oiks of five eggs into a small pan, and work them well together for a quarter of an hour ; then add to them four drachms of anise etoil^, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Put this preparation into tin moulds, in form of a. Jalousie, lightly but- tered, so that the dents de loup as they spread take the form of little naveties, the length and thickness of your little finger; then mask them all over with an ounce of white anise de Verdun. Put them to bake in a moderate oven, until they are of a nice light colour; then se- parate them, take them out of the moulds, ;ind place them on a haking-lin to dry in the oven, to make them crisp. Anise dloilt <1 la Fromage liuvarois.’— Take two drachms of green anise, two drachma of anise and half a drachm of fennel seed, and half a drachm of co- riander seeds ; bruise the whole of them, put them into two glasses o^ scalding milk, in which you have previously dis- solved eight ounces of powder sugar. Let it infuse for one hour, then pass it through a fine sieve or cloth. Then mix with it six drachms of isinglass; place it in your ice mould; as soon as it begins to congeal add to it your fromage a la creme, and finish the same as green wal- nuts a la fromage bavarois. Aniseed Cenoise.'—This is made like the Almond Cenoise, with the addition of a spoonful of green aniseed washed perfectly clean, put, instead of the almond paste, into the preparation; and these are glazed with four ounces of sugar, with red anise strewed over to finish them. Anise {white)Madelaines.'—Grate the zestes of two cedrats, oranges or lemons, upon a piece of sugar; then crush and mix it with powder sugar; weigh nine ouncesof itand put into a saucepan, with half a pound of sifted flour, four yolks and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye brandy, and a little sal t; stir this mixture with a spatula, and continue stirring exactly one minute after the whole is well incorporated, but no longer. Then cla- rify ten ounces of butter, taking care to skim it whenever the milk rises to the top; when quite clear pour it into another saucepan ; as soon as it is a little cooled pour it into a madelaine mould, then turn it out of this into a second mould, and so on until eight moulds are but- tered ; then heat the butter again, and fill eight more moulds, and proceed in this manner until thirty-two moulds are thus prepared, which must be kept up- right that the butter may be preserved in each. Put the remainder of the butter to the paste, which place over a gentle stove, stirring it constantly to prevent its sticking to the saucepan, and as soon as your preparation becomes liquid (this the melted butter will very soon effect.) re- move it from the fire, and put a spoonful of it into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven; in about five-and-twenty or thirty minutes try if they arc firm, and if they are also a good colour take them out. Then boil a quarter of a pound of fine sugar to cqssi, glaze the madelaine* oil one side by dipping it into the sugar, and as you take each cake out strew over it either red or white anise. Aniseed, (Oil o/).*—Is made like ani- seed water, the only diflerence is. that an additional pound of sugar is necessary to m.ake the syrup. Anise, (Petits Pains qf).'—Put two lasses of water .and two ounces of fresh utter into a stew-pau. and when the li- quid boils taKe it from the fire, and mix with it six ounces o( sifted flour; amalga- mate it thoroughly, so that it may be