CRU ( i: the crouslade of the size and form you may require; tlieii, having beaten up eigiit eggs, dip each crouslade into it, draining and rolling each, as you do them, in grated bread-crumbs; do this a second time, rolling them lightly on the slab to make them smooth, and fry them a good colour in a very hot pan. Open and fill them with such prepara- tions as you may think proper; cover, and serve them. CaouTEs ail Pot.*—Take some crusts of French bread, with very little crumb in them, cut them into thin slices, and lay them in a deep dish; pour over them some brotli and pot skimmings; then set the dish over the fire, until the bread is burnt to the bottom, or gratinee; then take tiiree outsides of a loaf, cutting out all the crumb, soak these in some skim- mings of broth ; season them with salt and pepper, and set them upright on the gi'utin; just before serving, drain them well, that the potage may be_ quite dry, and put some broth or stock in a sauce- tureen, and serve it. CaouTE au Pot.*—Take two French loaves, rasp them, take off the crusts, and cut the crumb in round slices, and put them into a stewpan with a spoonful of consomme; set the crusts over the fire to simmer, and then fry them in the fat taken from consomme; put the panada in a deep dish, with the crusts at the top; moisten them with the consomme fat,and set them on the fire, to make a gratiri for a quarter of an hour ; at the moment of serving, break six eggs over it, and serve it with a clarified consomme. CRUMPETS.—Make a pint of warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, strained into a strong batter, with a suf- ficient quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; tlien add a quarter of a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter worked up in a little flour, but only flour enough to prevent the batter from being too thin ; in a quarter of an hour have the iron rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; pour the batter into these rings, and bake them. CnuMPETS, or Pikelets.*—Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that half milk and half water must be used; and to every half quartern of flour, two eggs must be added; beat the eggs thoroughly. Bake them in rings as usual. CRUST {Short).— Pound, sift, and dry two ounces of white sugar; then mix it with a pound of well dried flour, rub- bing into it, so fine as not to be seen, three ounces of butter; then put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, and mix the whole into a smooth paste; roll it out thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. [)) cue Crust {Short, not sweet, hut rich).-— Mix into a stillish paste, using as little water as possible, six ounces of butter, with eight ounces of fine flour, (rubbing the butter well into the flour, before mix- ing it with the water) beat it well, and roll it thin. This crust is proper as well as the above, for tarts of fresh or pre- served fruits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. Crust, for Venison Pasfy. — Work into a paste with warm water, two pounds and a half of butter, a peck of fine flour, and four eggs ; work it smooth, and to a good consistence. The paste should be put round the inside, but not at the bottom of the dish ; let the cover be tolerably thick, to bear the long con- tinuance in the oven. CUCUMBERS, Blanquetteof.—VAXQ and stew your cucumbers in a little sauce tournee and sugar; then drain them. Reduce the liquor, and thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, and when wanted for table, put in the cucumbers. Cucumbers d la Bourgeoise.—Prepare and dish your cucumbers as a la creme ; in the meantime shred three or four onions very fine, and fry them in butter, till brown ; when so, and drained oft' from the butter, put them into a stew- pan to simmer by the side of the stove, with four table-spoonsful of consomme, and the same of sauce tournee; when re- duced to half the thickness, stir in a bit of butter, and one squeeze of lemon- juice ; salt, if required; pour this very hot over the cucumbers. Cucumber with Cream.*—Peel and cut into squares some small cucumbers, then put them into salt and water, first letting it boil up; when the cucumber becomes soft to the touch, take them’ out of the salt and water, and put them into cold water; let them drain in a cloth, make a thick sauce a, la creme; put the cucumbers into it, and serve. Cucumbers and Cream.* —- Cut the cucumbers the same as for Cucumber Sauce, and blanch them in salt and water; when tliey are tender, let them drain on a cloth till no water remains. Put a quarter of a pound of butter, three tea-spoonsful of flour, salt, pepper, and grated nutrneg; mix the whole together, and then add half a glass of cream, set them on the fire and let them boil up once ; if too thick, add more cream ; put in the cucumbers, and keep it hot till wanted; it must not boil. Cucumbers and Cream.*—Your cu- cumbers being pared, and tlic seeds taken out, cut them into dice, blanch, arid then put them into a saucepan with a little melted butter, parsley, and seal-