P O R 418) POR little sage, Bhred very fine, which very mucli iitiproves the fiavnur. PoiiK Chops en Rugotil.*—C\\i a loin or neck of fresh pork into cliops, and stew them with a little stock, a bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt; have ready a veal sweetbread, parboiled, and cut into large dice; put it into a stewpan with some mushrooms, the livers of any kind of poultry, and a small quantity of butler, set it on the fire with some flour, a glass of white wine, a little gravy, and a little stock ; add salt and coarse pep- per, a bunch of par.-ley and green onions, a clove of garlic, and two cloves: let the whole boil, and reduce to a thick sauce, and serve it over the chops ; or you may dress the chops in the same manner a.s the ragofit, and when rather more than half done, add the sweetbread, livers, and mushrooms. Pork Cutlets.—Take a loin of pork and skin it, then divide it into cutlets; strew over them some parsley and thyme, cut small, with pepper, salt, and grated bread; broil them of a fine brown ; have ready some good gravy, a spoonful of ready-made mustard, two shalots shred small; boil all these to- gether over the fire, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; if agree- able, add a little vinegar. Serve the cutlets in a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. Pork Cutlets, Broiled.—Cut the pork chops the same as veal cutlets, leaving a little fat on them ; beat them to flatten them into a good shape ; broil them, and when thoroughly done, serve with a sauce Robert, or gherkins. Pork Cutlets, with Red or fVhite Cab- bage.—Take a back piece of pork, cut it into cutlets, beat and trim them, season with pepper and salt, gently broil them till done ; they must be of a nice light brown colour. Serve them on red or white cabbage, stewed. Pork (^Fillet of) Roasted. — Take a piece of back pork, cut the chine bone from the under part, and let it lay in a marinade all night; when to be roasted, run a lark-spit through, tie it on another spit, cover it with paper, and roast it gently ; and when to be served up, if not coloured enough, glaze it lightly, and serve it with a sauce Robert under- neath. Pork Loin and Neck.—They should be roasted. With a sharp penknife cut the skin of the loin across, at the dis- tance of half an inch. Pork {Neck of) Rolled.—Take a neck of pork and remove out all the bones; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and a few berries of allspice,over the inside; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and let it roast slowly, placing it at first a good distance from the fire. Pork {Leg of) Barbicued.—Put a leg of pork before the fire to roast, put a good deal of red wine iuto the dripping- pan, and baste it well all the time it is roasting; if there is not enough port in at first, add more ; itwill take about three pints ; cut the skin from the bottom of the shank in rows of an inch bro.id; raise every other row, and roll it to the shank ; have ready a pint of strong gravy, and add to it a pint of red wine, a couple of anchovies, a bundle of sweet herbs, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and pound- ed fine, with a quarter of a pound of but- ter, the juice ot a lemon, and two spoons- ful of ketchup; let the gravy and wine be vvell boiled together, and the anchovy with it; strain these off, and add the other ingredients; let them boil a few minutes; froth the pork, take it up, pour part of the sauce over it, and put the rest into a boat. Pork, Leg of Boiled.—Take a leg of pork that has been in salt eight or ten days; when it is to be dressed, weigh it; let it soak for half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up; as soon as it boils, skim it, and an continue. Allow water enough. It should be l>oiled in a cloth, nicely floured, this adds much to the delicacy of its appearance. The ork should be small, and of a fine grain, erve peas pudding and turnips with it. VosKfs.{Leg of) Broiled.—Skin part of the fillet, cut it into thin slices, hack it on the back with a knife, then season with salt and pepper, sage and thyme, minced small; then broil them on a giidiron, dish them, and let their sauce be butter, vinegar, and mustard. Pork (i/c^o/) Roasted).—Make choice of a small leg of fine young pork ; with a sharp knife cut a slit in the knuckle, and fill the space with chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt. When half roasted, score the skin in slices, being careful not to cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to cat with it. Pork {Shoulders and Breasts).—Pat them into pickle, or the .shoulder may be salted as a leg; when they arc very nice, they may be roasted. Porker's Head, to Roast.—Takes fine young head, thoroughly clean it. and pul brcHU and sage the same as for pig; sew it up tight, and roast it like a pig, on a