LAM ( 300 LAM and prepared them for dressing, in llie same way as calf’s brains, blanch, and then drain them in a cloth ; lay them on a dish, with tongue tl l’£curlute, c\\t like cock’s- combs, between each brain; place hard eggs, glierkins, a pretty firm mayonnaise, and a glass of rnviqote in tlie centre, and garnish your dish with pieces of jelly. Lamb Breast of, with Cucumbers.—Cut the chine bone off from the breast, and put it to stew with a pint of gravy; when the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and then serve it in a dish on nicely stewed cucumbers. Lamb, Breast of, to be eaten Cold.— Bone a breast of lamb, then have a good forcemeat made of fat liveis, trufiles, &c. the same as for raised jties, and an ome- lette made of the white of eggs, and of the yolks, coloured with spinach juice ; when cold cut them in long slips, first lay some, forcemeat, then the slips of omelettes, with a few truffles laid between, and like- wise some fat livers; then spread all over with the forcemeat, roll it in a nap- kin, and put it to stew very gently for three or four Iiours; when done, let it stand in the liquor till cold, then take it out, and let it stand for two days before you cut it; trim it well, lay it on the dish, and garnish it with aspic jelly, minced and scattered round it. Lamb, Breast of, with Pease.—Braise a breast of lamb, and then having taken out the small bones, flatten it: when cold cut it into small pieces, and put them into the braise to heat, drain ana glaze them, and serve with pease (prepared as follow.s) poured over them : put some young pease into water, with a little fresh butter ; drain and put them into a saucepan, with a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, stew them gently over a slow fire; reduce them with two spoons- ful of espa^nole, and a Ijttle sugar. If you wish this dish white, use sauce tournee lor the pease, instead of espag- note. IjMfB {Breast of) Rolled in a Ragout. —Take a breast of lamb that is cut rather broad, take out all the bones, spread it well witli veal forcemeat, and roll it up. tying it well up with pack thread, amt let it stew gently in some good braise ; when well stewed take it out, put it in a moderate oven, and glaze it two or three times; then have a good ragout ready, pour it into a dish, and lay the lamb upon it. Lamb Chops en Casserole.—Take a loin of lamb, cut it into chops, egg them with yolk of egg on both side®, strew them over with bread crumbs, with mace, cloves, pepper, and salt, mixed; fry them of a liglit brown, and place them on a dish in form of a crown ; make a sauce of sweet herbs and parsley, chopped fine, and stewed in a little tliick gravy. Pour this sauce into the middle of the dish. Serve garnished with fried parsley. Lamb {Cromesquis of). — Take the same preparation as the croquettes ; roll into small balls; wrap eacli in a thin slice of ready dressed calf's udder; dip them in batter, and fry them, ^rve with fried parsley. Lamb {Croquettes of).*—Take a cold roasted leg (or any other part) of lamb, cut off the meat, clear away all the skin and sinews, and mioceit; mince also a little lamb fat or calf’s udder, and some mushrooms (ready dres=ed); mix all these togethe.’’, season them with nut- meg, salt, and pepper. Pot half a dozen ladiesful of veloute,a.nA four of jelly, into a saucepan; reduce it to rather less than half, and add the yolks of three eggs, stirring constantly; when the sauce is thickened, put in an ounce of butter, and stir till it is dissolved. Strain this sauce over the meat, stirring as before, then let it stand; when cold, stir it once more, and then with a desert-spoon lay it on a table in little heaps; when all the meat is thus disposed, take up each heap in your hand, and form them into what- ever shape you please, (either round, oval, pear-shaped, &e.); roll them in bread crumbs; beat up tliree yolks and two whole eggs, with a little salt and pepper; dip the croquettes in this, and bread them a second time ; take care that they are well covered ; fry them in a hot pan; when done, dram and place them in a pyramid on your dish, wiih fried parsley over them. Make, a sauce as follows; cut some mushrooms into dice, and put them into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter; give them a few turns over the fire, and then add a few scallions shred small; when they have had a turn or two, put in a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stork, and a b.Ay-leaf; reduce the sauce, and then take out the bay-leaf, and put in the yolks of four eggs, and another ounce of butter ; stir the whole till of the proper consistence, when pour it over the crooHC/fes. A little shred parsley may be added if you like. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic.* — Take six- teen lamb-cutlets, and lard them with moderate sized Inrdons of calPs udder, truffles, and tongue « I'ccarlate; line a saucepan with slices of bacon, lay yotir cutlets on them, cover them with bacoii, moisten with skimmings of consomme, add a carrot, two onions stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; braise them, and when done, put them between two dishes, and let them cool;