HER ( 287 ) HER of an hour; add a glass of stock, and serve it very tint. Herbs, Steivsd.—Take some spinach, two handsful of parsley, and one handful of scallions ; chop the two latter, and sprinkle tliem among the spinach; put them into a stewpan, with a little salt and a bit of butter; when it begins to heat, shake the pan, keeping it closely covered ; let it stand over a stove till done. Herbs, Sweei—These w cookery are pnrsley,chibbol,rocambole,\vinter savory, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, mint, borage, rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. The relishing herbs or Ravigoite, are .tarragon, garden-cress, chervil, biirnet, civet, and green mustard. Herbs en Papilloles.*—Grate half a pound of bacon, and put it, with six spoonsful of oil, and a quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan; add to it four dessert-spoonsful of mushrooms, shred small; give them a few turns over the fire. When done, put in two dessert- spoonsful of shalots, give them a turn or two, do the same with two spoonsful of parsley*, then do the whole together; add salt, pepper, and spices ; when done, put herbs into a pan, to be used when wanted. The herbs must all be shred small before they are put into the sauce- pan. Herb Pie.—Take a handful ofspinacli, double the quantity of parsley, picked, two lettuces, mustaid and cress, and the leaf of borage and white beet; vvasb, scald, and having drained and pressed outall the water,shred them very small; mix them together, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; make a batter with a couple of eggs, a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and some flour, stir it well and pour it on the herbs in a deep di.sh ;• cover the whole with a crust, and bake. Herbs, Potaqe of.*—Take some sor- rel, lettuce, leeks, and chervil, mince them very small, and do them up in a little fresh bolter. When well amalga- mated and sufficiently done, moisten them with a proper quantity of stock or broth, and pour the whole on the bread, prepared as usual, in the soup tureen. Herbs (,Common) Poiage o/.*—Take two lettuces, a handful »,f sorrel, the same of chervil, and liaving washed them well, bruise and put them into a sauce- fian, with remains in the pot after broth las been strained ; set them on the fire, and when the herbs are tender, add broth, and let them stew till sufficiently done, Tlien soak bread as usual, ay it. covered with the lettuces, &c., in a tureen, and pour the soup over. HERON Pie.—Break the breast bone, and lay the bird in soak for.an hour in warm water and salt. Shred some onions and sweet herbs very fine; make them into balls, with a little butter, add pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace in powder; put some of these into the heron, lard tlie breast, and lay bacon on the wings. Make a raised crust, in which place the bird, with the remainder of the balls round it; squeeze in some lemon-juice, cover the pie, and bake it; wlien done, raise the top, pour in a little gravy, and let it stand till cold. Herox, to Roast.—When the heron is picked, parboil it, lard the breast and back ; roast it, basting with white wine and butter, beaten together: strew over it bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, shred small. Beat up the yolks of eggs with a little claret and vinegar, and some chopped anchovies : when roasted, serve it garnished with rosemary-leaves, orange and lemon sliced. HERRINGS.—There are three sorts of herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or red herrings. They are emptied and cleaned like any other fish ; when fresh, they are broiled, and served with melted butter, white sauce, &c. The salted herring should be soaked in cold water before it is cooked ; this is also broiled ; sometimes, however, it is cut in pieces, and eaten raw. The red herring is split down the back, the head and tail are cut offi and the fish broiled like the others. They may also be dressed as follows: when they have lain in cold water a suffi- cient time, soak them for two hours in milk, then split them down the back ; then have ready some melted butter, in which lias been mixed basil ami bay- leaf, minced small, the yolks of two eggs, pepper and nutmeg; rub the lierrings well with iliis, bread them; broil them over a gentle tire, and serve with lemon- juice. The best red herrings are full of roe, are firm and large, and have a yellow cast. Of the fresh herring the scales are bright if good, the eyes are full, and the gills red, the fi.-li also should be stiff’. Herrings, Boiled.—Scale, and other- wise prei>arc the herrings in the usual way ; dry them well, and rub them over with a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails in their mouths, lay them on a fish-plate, and put them into boiling water; in ten or twelve minuies take them out, drain iliem, lay iheni on the dish, the heads towards the middle; serve them with melted butter and pai- sley, and garnish with horse-radish.