ASP (33) ASP AnriCHOKE (Jerusalem).—They must be neatly peeled, and boiled very gently by the side of the stove, with a little salt in the water; when done (but not too much, or they will not look well) place them on the dish, and serve with plain butter, or any other sauce you plC3S0a ASHEE Sauce.—Chop, very small, some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, shallots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean ham, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs; add a good seasoned cullis, and a little mushroom Ketchup; simmer all together a quarter of an hour. ASPaRAGUS Boiled.—Scrape and tie them in small bundles; cut them even, boil them quick in salt and water; lay them on a toast dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in ; pour over them melted butter, or fish sauce, oil, pepper, &c. Asparagus Bottled.*—C\e.&o the as- paragus as for boiling. Before you bottle them plunge them first intoboiling, then into cold water: place those which are unbroken carefully into bottles,the heads downwards, proceed in the same manner as in doing the artichokes. Asparagus in Cream.*—Choose the finest asparugus, and dress it as usual; parboil half a pint of cream and a little butter, shake it about, and when the but- ter is melted, season it moderately, and pour it over the asparagus. Asparagus en croustade.*—Mix up the yolks of four eggs in some paste ^ nouille, then form it into an undercrust, cut it into a band nineteen inches long, and two inches and a quarter wide. With the cuttings of your paste form a round six inches in diameter, and around this put your band inform oi ?l croustade, pinch up your paste into proper shape, and ornament it lightly round ; gild it, and put it to dry in a slow oven ; this done, take a fine head of asparagus and place it, standing upright, in the middle of your croustade, surround this with six more heads of asparagus nine inches in length, surround these with twelve more, eight inches in length ; round these put seventeen more, seven inches in length ; add two tnore rounds of asparagus heads, the one six inches, the other five inclies in length. Great attention should be paid to the boiling of asparagus for this cntremet, as it should be of a very nice green colour, and the moment it is sulliciently boiled (which is when it becomes firm) it should be put into cold water to cool it. This is an extretnely pretty and ornamental way of serving tliis vegetable cold. It should be eaten with oil. Asparagus and Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish ; butter some eggs thus : take four eggs, beat them well, put them into a sauce- pan with two ounces of butter, and a little salt, until of a sufficient consist- ence, and lay them on the toast; mean- while boil some asparagus tender, cut the ends small, and lay them on the eggs. Asparagus and Eggs.*—Blanch some asparagus | cut it as for asparagus pease, and strew it in a little cream and butter; beat up a dozen eggs and fry them as for an omelet; and when they begin to take, mix the asparagus in it; when of a good colour on both sides, serve it very hot. Asparagus Fritada.*—Take young asparagus,breakoft the green heads, boil them till tender, then drain on a sieve. Beat up eggs, pepper, and salt; stir up the asparagus in the eggs, and fry in frit- ters. Do them in oil. Asparagus forced in French rolls.— Take out the crumb of three French rolls, by first cutting a piece of the top crust oft', and be careful that the crust fits again the same place. Fry the rolls brown in fresh butter; then take a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg; stir them well together over a slow fire till it begins to thicken. Have prepared a hundred of small grass boiled, then save tops suffi- cient to stick the rolls with, the remain- der cut small and put into tlie cream, fill the loaves with them. Before frying the rolls make holes thick in the top crust, and stick the grass in ; then lay on the piece of crust, and stick the grass in, that It may look as if it were growing. Asparagus Italian fashion.—Take the asparagus, break them in pieces, then boil them soft, and drain the water from them ; take a little oil, water, and vine- gar, let it boil, season it with pepper and salt; throw in the asparagus, and thicloen with the yolks of eggs. Endive done this way is good; the Spaniards add sugar, but that spoils them. Green pease done as above are very good ; only add a lettuce cut small, and two or three onions, and leave out the eggs. AsPARAGUsPease.*—Cut some aspara- gus to the form and size of pease, blanch them in boiling water,then put theminto astewpan with melted butter, parsley, scallions, and tarragon ; moisten them with a little cream, add some sugar, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs. AsPARAOusPfc/t/erf.—Cut and wash the green heads of the largest asparagus ; let them lie twoorlhree hours in cold water. Scald them very carefully in salt and