SAL SAL ( 444 ) —Take two hand- some slices of salmon, and marinade them in oil and lemon-juice with salt and pepper : hroil tliem about two-tliirds, and then put them in a saucepan with tlicir marinade, set them on hot ashes to simmer for lialf an liour, then put them on a dish, cover tliem with grated bread, coloiir the whole witli a salamander, ana serve. SALMON, Pickled —Cnt a salmon into two or three pieces, put it in a fish- kettle, and set it on the fire with a suffi- cient quantity of water to cover it, and plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to boll, set it aside to simmer very gently until done ; then take it off the fire, and let it stand in the liquor until cold, take it out, lay the pieces close togetlier in a tub to pickle, and over them five ancho- vies, a small quantity of pounded salt- petre, and a quarter of a pint of sweet oil; being thus prepared, put tlie top of the salmon liquor into a stewpan, to which add the same quantity of white wine vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, and boil it for two or three minutes; takeitofli and let it cool. When cold, pour it over the salmon and tie it down ; m three days turn it, and in a week’s time it will he fit for use; this is merely in a small way ; a great quantity being done at once, requires neither oil nor an- chovies. Serve garnished with fennel. Salmon. Pickled, to Dress.—?>oak a piece of pickled salmon all night in pump- water ; then lay iton a fish-plate, and put it in a stewpan, with three spoonslul of vinegar, a little mace, some wh.».Ie pep- per in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; cover the stew- pan very close, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour; then take up the salmon, lay it in a dish, keep it liot before the fire ; lot the sauce boil till it is of a proper consistence ; take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, and serve the ranee over the fish. Sai.mon Pie (//ofTake the skin and bone from a piece of salmon ; cut it in pieces, which lard with eel and an- chovies; dress them in a little butler with some sweet herbs, salt, and spices; wiien done, take out the heibsand mix tliem with fish quenelles; let the fish cool, and then lay it in a deep dish lined with pufl'-pastp, put in also the quenelles, cover your pie and bake it. Pour an Italienne into it, and serve. Salmon, /’o/W.—Seale and wipe a large piece of salmon, but do not wnsli it; salt it thoroughly, then let it lay till the salt is melted and drained from it; then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper; lay in some bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butler, and set it in the oven to bake; when thoroughly done, drain it from the gravy, nut it into pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter, Salmon, Rolled.—Take half a salmon, Ijone it, cut off the head, scale and wash it; make a forcemeat with oysters, cut small, some parsley, chopped fine, bread- crumhs, pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace, put this to the salmon, and roll it up tight ; put it into a very deep dish, and set it to bake in a quick oven. Serve with anchovy, or shrimp sauce poured over. Salmon, Saladof.*—Put into a sauce- pan four dessert spoonsful of vinegar, two of liquid jelly, ten of oil, a minced raoigote, salt and pepper; cut a boiled salmon into pieces, put them into the above sauce to colour them. When cold, lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over. SALOOP.—Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar, together; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth, in a little cold water ; stir the whole well together, and boil for a few minutes. S.ALPICON.’*—This is a mixture com- posed of various articles, such as sweet- breads, fat livers, tongue, ham, champig- nons. truffles, &c., previously diessed, cut into (lice, and cooked in some rich sauce, and seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, cloves, shalots, sweet herbs, and a little butter ; take care tl^at all the articles are sufficiently boiled liefore they are cut up. Many things, such as beef- palate, fowl, cocks’-combs, indeed almost any article you piease, may be added to the above. Salpicon, Omeh t of.* — Whip up a dozen eggs, and fry half the number as usual in butter ; then lay the omelet in a di.sh, spread .a snl/dron, composed of carp roes, livers, &c. of fish, all over it; make a second omelet of the remaining eggs, lay it on the salpicon, and serve with any sauce you please. Salpici'n Toast.* — Make a salpicon with veal sweetbreads, morels, artichoke bottoms, and a slice of streaked bacon, all cut into dice ; nut them into a stewpan, tvith some veal or fowl giavy ; set the pan on the fire, and then thicken the salpicon with the yolk.s of four eggs. Cut some thin slices of bread (have all the same thickne.'s); toast, and spread the salpicon over, and lay them in sand- wiches ; b^at up some whites of eggs which, with a spoon, pour all over the