106 CAL CAL nutmeg, salt and white pepper well mixed; season it high with these ; put a thick layer of parsley, then a quantity of thick slices of ham, or a fine coloured tongue skinned, and the yolks of six eg^s stuck about in it. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can, put a cloth round, and tie it with tape, Boil, and then lay a weight on it. Calf’s Head Collared like Brawn.— Scald tlie head till the hair comes clean oil', then cut it in two, and take out the brains and eyes. Wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till the bones come out. Slice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even. Throw a handful of salt on them, and roll it up quite close, as other col- lars. Boil it two hours. When cold lay it in a brawn pickle. Calf’s Head d la DHiller.*—Take a very delicate calf's heady, bone, soak, and blanch it; take out the brains, and let them soak also ; boil in a hlanc for three quarters of an hour. When the head is cold, dry it in a cloth, singe, and cut it in pieces, leaving the eyes and ears whole ; collect the pieces and tie them so that they keep the original shape, rub it with lemon, and boil it for three hours \na.blanc; then take it out, untie and dish it, place the brains at each end of the dish, and cut the tongue into square pieces the size of dice, and put them into a sauce made as follows ; put a ladle full oi espagriole., half a bottle of white wine, six allspice bruised, and six spoonsful of consomme, reduce these to half, and then put in the pieces of tongue, some mush- rooms and gherkins cutinto littlesticks ; pour this sauce over the head. Calf’s Head, the Dutch fVay.—Lay half a pound of Spanish pease in water for twelve hours : then mix them with a pound of whole rice, and having put a calf’s head, properly prepared, into a deep dish, lay the pease and rice round i t; pour two quarts of water over, season it with pepper and salt, colour it with safl'ron, and bake it. Calf’s Head, {Old Fashion.) — Boil the head till the tongue will peel; then divide the head, and cut the meat from one half into pieces the size of oysters, (setting the brains aside) and stew them in strong gravy, and a quarter of a pint of claret, a lemon peel, a bunch of sweet lierbs, a little sliced onion and nutmeg; stew these tender. In the mean time slash the other half head, lard it, wash it over with yolks of eggs, strew over it grated bread, sweet herbs, and lemon- peel, and broil it; when done lay it on a dish, and having added to the stewed meat a pint of gravy, three anchoviee, mushrooms, capers, butter, and a pint of stewed oysters, pour them round the broiled head. Garnish it with the tongue cut into thin round slices, the brains in i cakes, bacon, oysters and force-meat balls, all nicely fried; barberries and I horse-radish laid on theedgeof the dish, and serve it up. Calf’s Head Fried.*—Cut a cold calfs head into middling sized pieces, and put into a jar; pour on them a marinade; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour, drain them, dip each piece in u batter, and fry them. Do not let the oil or lard they are fried in be too hot. Calf’s Head, German IFuy.—Take a , large calf’s head, with great part of the i peck cut with it; split it in half, blanch it, and take out the jaw-bone. Lay . slices of bacon at the bottom of the stew- • pan, then thin beef-steaks, with pepper and salt; put in the head, pour beef gravy over it; add a large onion, stuck I with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it close, and let it stew on a stove. Make a ragoflt, with a quart of beef ! gravy, half a pint of red wine, some i sweetbreads parboiled, and cut in slices, i some cock’s-combs, oysters, mushrooms, ' truffles and morels; stew them till ten- der. When the head is done, put it in a dish, take out the brains, the eyes, and the bones; slit the tongue, cut it into small pieces, do the same with the eyes, and chop the brains; put these into a baking-dish, and pour some of the ragofit over them; then put the head, and pour i the rest of the ragoflt over it, and melted I butter, and over that, scraped Parmesan i cheese. Colour it a fine brown in the i oven. Calf’s Head hashed.—Boil the liead ' almost enough, and take the meat of the i best side neatly from the bone, and lay it in a small dish ; wash it over with the i yolks of two eggs, and cover it with ' crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, all mixed : together previously. Set the dish before ' the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts may lie equally ■ brown. In the mean time slice the re- i mainder of the head, and the tongue, i (peeled); put a pint of good gravy into i a pan, wi^h an onion, a small bunch of herbs, (consisting of parsley, basil, sa- vory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt and cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor; boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. Add some fresh or pickled mushrooms, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketsup; lieat up half the brains, and put them to the rest, with a bit of butter and flour.