sou SPI ( 457 ) up to keep them in proper form); fill the saucepan with good stock, set it on the fire, and skim it well, and then put in carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, and two cloves; stew the whole, and when done, serve as follows;—the capon and pigeons in a deep dish, garnished with whole lettuces (previously cooked), srnall onions, carrots,and turnips, cut into dice ; these are also dressed previously; take the carrots, &c. which were done with the capon, cover the capon with them ; strain the liquor through a tammy, and serve in a tureen by itself as sauce to the capon. Soup, Hessian.*—Take two pounds of shin of beef, one pint of split peas, two onions, four carrots, six potatoes, two heads of celery, some whole pepper, salt, and five quarts of water; stew all to- gether till half the quantity is boiled away; then strain it through a hair sieve.’ Soup Maigre.—Moi\t half a pound of butter in a stewpan, shake it well ; as soon as it ceases to hiss, put in six mid- dling sized onions, sliced, sliake the pan well for five minutes, then put in five heads of celery, cut small, a handful or two of spinach", a cabbage-lettuce, and a bunch of parley, all cut small ; shake the.se all well tjgether in the. pan for a quarter of an hour; stir in some flour, then pour in two quarts of boiling water, some crusts of bread, some beaten pep- per, fonr blades of mace, pounded very fine ; stir the whole well together, and let it boil gently for half an hour ; take it off’, and stir in the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar. Serve in a tureen. Soup de Sante.—Lay six or eight slices of lean bam, with some beef over them, at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, with some partridge-legs, or moor game, or chicken, salt, peppcr-corns, Jamaica-pepper, three or four cloves, a bay-leaf, and one clove of garlic; let the whole stew together till it takes a fine brown colour, then fill it up vvith half water, and half good beef stock; add three heads of celery, two good turnips, parsley, lemon, thyme, two carrot.s, three large onions, and a small bunch of winter savory ; when the whole is thoroughly well done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a basin. Cut two good sized turnips and three large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness of a quill, and an incli .and a half long ; fry these together of a nice brown colour ; next, shred two cabbage- lettuces, celery, endive, sorrel, and chervil ; and stew them down on a very slnw fire with a small bit of butter. When done, put them in a sieve with the turnips; then put them into a soup-po*^, and pour the soup from the basin over them ; set it on a stove, skim it, and as 8 )on as it boils, set it on one side, and let it simmer for two hours very gently ; take the crumb of a couple of French rolls, and cut it into round pieces, which brown in the oven, and put them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon thern, If you think proper, it may be clarified, the same as other clear soups ; but the real Soup de Sante ought not to be clarified. Soup, f-Vhite, without Meat.—Put two or three quarts of water into a saucepan, with the crumb of a small loaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, a few cloves, an onion or two cut across, and a little salt; cover close and boil till perfectly smooth; cut into small pieces some celery, endive, and lettuce, the white parts only; boil them, strain oH'the soup into a clean stewpan; put in the herbs, with a good piece of butter, keepstirr-ng till it is melted ; then let it boil till quite smooth ; skim it, soak some French roll, nicely rasped, in a little of the soup; put it in a tureen, pour tlie remainder of the soup over, and send to table. SPICED Bread {Common).* — Boil three pounds of honey in a gallon of wa- ter for a quarter of an hour; then pour it on the flour in the trough ; mix them together well, until the flour will imbibe no more liquid; when a little cooled, add three ounces of potash, infused the night before in half a pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting to it some pound- ed anise. Roll out the paste, and with paste-cutters of various forms, cut it into little figures, lay them on a well-oiled tin, and bake them; when done, wash them over with milk. With this paste spiced nuts are made; when formed lay, them on tins, and leave in a warm place for two or three days before they are baked. Spickd Bread {Dutch or Flemish).*— The evening before you wish to make your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of white potash in half a pint of milk, and set it aside. The next morning put a considerable quantity of sifted flour into a trough, make a hole in the heap, into which pour six pounds of clarified honey; whilst boiling, stir it well with a strong spatula, until the honey, reditced to a. firm paste, will imbibe no more flour, then spread it all over the bottom of the. trough, and leave it for about ten nr li.- teen mtnutes ; at the end ol that time, if the paste be sulliciently cool for you to bear vottr hand on it, rub its surface with the infusion of potash; then let a strong persoti knead it, in the same manner as