210 c u s cus put tliem in a brisk oven: serve them ' quite hot. .These quantities will make eighteen. Costard Anglo-Frawiaise.*—Make a cream pdtissiHre, with a little vanilla in it; and when dried, add of butter, powder-sugar, and crushed bitter ma- caroons, six ounces each, a quarter of a pound of dry currants, and the same of stoned raisins, two ounces of preserved cedi-at, cut in pieces, four drachms of crisped orange flowers, half a nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, and half a glass of white wine. Mix in the twelve whites whipped firm as usual; pour the pre- paration into a raised crust, and bake in the usual way. Costard, Baked.— Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon ; when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rose and orange- flower water, a little white wine, nut- meg, and sugar to your taste; mix them well together, and bake them in china cups. Costard of Cream.*—Prepare your custard as usual. (See Apple Custard) Fasten a paper band, about four inches high, round it, and till it with a good cream patissiere, with rather less butter than usual. Bake it for three quarters of an hour; take off the paper, dorez it: sprinkle the top of the cream, and colour it with the salamander. Costard Fritters.— Having beat up the yolks of eight eggs, with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy, add a pint of cream ; sweeten it, and bake it in a small dish. When it is cold, cut it into quarters, and dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, a little ginger, grated. Fry them in good lard or dripping, and when done, strew grated sugar over them. Costard of Fresh Fruit.*—Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line it completely with paste, taking care that it takes all the form of the mould. Then take a suflicient quantity of apricots, peaches, plums, or any other fruit you please; and having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, mix the fruit up with owder-sugar; put it into the crust, and ake it in a hot oven. When ready for table, mask it with the syrup and ker- nels, blanched and cut in halves. Costard in Preserved Ora7iges.— Fill three or five oranges with custard ; gar- nish with a little sweetmeat, either wet or dry ; this makes a very pretty dish. Costard d la Parisien7te.*—C\il fifty sound apples into quarters, (pared and cored), and put them into a saucepan, with half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and a pot of apricot marmalade ; put them over a moderate fire, with coals on the sauce- pan lid ; let them remain a few minutes, that they may soften, but not break. Have ready a preparation of rice, boiled with half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which has been grated the peels of four lemons, a pinch of salt, and eight or nine glasses of milk, and thickened with the yolks of ten eggs. Make a raised crust like the custard d la Portu- gaise, in which pour a fourth part of the rice (cold); on that lay forty-eight quarters of apples; over them pour the same quantity of the rice, then the apples, riee, &c. reserving the finest quarters for the top. Bake it in a brisk oven, for between two and three hours. When done, mask the top with apple- jelly, apricot or currant marmalade, and the crust with apricot marmalade also. Custard {Plant).— Take a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, four bay leaves, and some mace; boil them all together; then well beat up twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put them into a pan; bake, or boil them, stirring them all one way, till they are of a proper thickness; boil your spice and leaves first, and when the milk is cold, mix your eggs and boil it; you may leave out the spice, and only use the bay leaves, or in the room of tliat, four or five bitter almonds. Custard d la Portugaise.* — Choose about a hundred fine apples, from which select three dozen of the best; scoop out the core, and as you trim them, put them into a saucepan, with just water enough to cover them, adding the juice of two lemons, and two spoonsful of powder- sugar ; when scalded, put them into another saucepan, with three quarters of a pound of powder-su^r, the peel of two lemons, and a sufficient quantity of water to boil them : in the mean time, cut the rest of the apples into quarters, and make them into a marmalade ; to which, add a pot of apricot marmalade, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; pass this through a sieve. The whole apples must be taken from the fire while they are yet firm. Rlake a raised crust, about nine inches diameter, and five or six in height; in which put a fourth part of the marma- lade ; lay a dozen of the whole apples on that, having filled each apple with apneot marmalade; cover them with the mar- malade (the same quantity as at the bottom), then a dozen more apples; mask them also with marmalade, and so again with the remaining fruit and mar- malade. Tie 3 thick paper round the