C b R ( 207 ) CUR let it settle a little; skim them, and put them into glasses, and as they cool, take care to disperse them equally. CuRKANTs for Tarts, {to preserve).— Put a pound of sugar into a preserving pan, for every pound and a quarter of currants, with a sufficient quantity of currant juice to dissolve the sugar ; wlien it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, and boil them till they are very clear; put them into a jar, cover them with brandy-paper, and keep them in a dry place. Currant Pudding.—A pound of cur- rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of ginger, a little powder sugar and a little salt; boil this for three hours. Currants {Ratafia of). ^—Take two quarts of brandy, two of currant juice, two pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the same of cloves. Take the seeds from the cur- rants before you press out the juice ; rectify the brandy ; then add the cinna- mon, cloves, and juice. When it has stood a moi'.th, draw it off', dissolve the sugar in it, and then filter the ratafia. Currants {Black), Ratifia of.*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, one quart of river water, two pounds of black cur- rants, three of crushed sugar, one of bit- ter cherries, six ounces of black currant leaves, and a drachm of cinnamon or cloves._ Bruise the leaves, and fruit, and spice, and then put them into the brandy to infuse for a month. Dissolve the sugar in the water, and when the ratafia is drawn off^ mix the syrup with it; then filter and bottle it. Currant Shruh.—To five pints of cur- rant juice, either red or white, one pound and a half of loaf sugar; when dissolved, put to it one gallon of rum or brandy; clear it through a flannel bag. Currant Syrttp.* —Put five or six pounds of red, two of white currants, and two pottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush them, and press the juice through it into a pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment; in a week’s time, pass the juice through a straining bag, and having clarified, and boiled Vo fort souffle four pounds of sugar, put the juice to it, and boil them togetlier once; skim, ami take it from the fire. It is necessary that tlie currant juice should ferment, to revent its becoming a jelly in the ottles. Currant TVirf.*—Pick your currants from the stalks carefully, and having lined a dish with puff'-paste, strew pow- der sugar over the bottom of the aieh ; then put the fruit, then sugar, and so on. in alternate layers, till your dish is full, then cover, and bake it. Currant tart is much improved by add- ing either raspberries, or mulberries, to the currants. Currant (red or vdiite) Tartlets.*— Having taken the seeds from a pound of fine ripe currants, mix them in a pan, with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; put these into the tartlets, made as usual. (See Tartlets.) When baked, make a thin jelly with a quarter of a pound of crushed currants, and two ounces of powder,sugar, with which the tartlets should be masked. Currants en Timbale. — Pick and wash some fine red currants, and set them to stew gently in thick clarified sugar; and when done enough, mix with them lemon juice, and a little isinglass. Currant Water.*—Pick a pound ahd a half of currants, and half a pound of raspberries, both quite ripe; crush them, press the juice through a sieve, and put to it a quart of water, and threfe quarters of a pound of sugar; let it stand half an hour, then pass it through a napkin, pour it iuto decanters, and set them in iced water. Currant {Fresh) Water. — Take a quart of fresh currants, and squeeze them through a sieve with your hand; add twij large wooden spoonsful of powdered su- gar, one lemon, and some water; make it to your taste; strain it through a sieve, it will then be fit for use. Currant Water made of Jelly.—Take two large spoonsful of currant jelly, and ■mix it with a little warm water ; then put one gill of syrup, squeeze two or three lemons in, and let the rest be water; taste, and make it to your palate, putting a little cochineal in to make it a fine colour ; strain it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Currant JVine. * — Take sixteen pounds of currants, three gallons of waterbreak the currants with your hands in the water, strain it off’; put to it fourteen pounds of fine sugar, strain It into the vessel; add a pint of brandy, and a pint of raspberries. Stop it down, and let it stand three months. Currant Wine {Red or White).*— lake thirty pounds of either red or white currants, and an equal quantity of black currants and small cherries, not stoned, and leaving on the stalks ; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them With a large Ktick ; then boil half a quarter of juniper- berries in five or six pints of water, to which add half a poiindj or a pound of honey, to make the juniperberries fer- ment; when they have fermented, mix them with the juice of the fruits. Stit