UEE (45) BEE tlie north, is fed in English pastures. Many counties feed tliis stock, but Nor- folk has the preference, where the far greater number are fed. Heifers are usually fit for the slaughter from two to three years old. The ox is slaughtered from three to five years old. The Devon and Hereford breed, aflord rime beef, to which the Lincolnshire reed is generally not to be compared. The Susse.'c ox is not uncommonly slaughtered at seven years, being previ- ously worked at the plough. With regard to artificial feeding, whether on oil-cake or other nutriment, to increase the flesh of animals for the slaughter, the result is held to be, “ that though generally the lean of fat animals is the most tender and palatable, yet that this is not so much the case when the fat is rapidly produced by artificial management in the feeding.” (See the articles Mutton, Pork, &c.) Beef d I’Anglaise.—Take a rump of beef, or any piece you like better of the same size; tie it up neatly with pack- thread, and put it into a stewpan with two or three carrots, a parsnip, three or fouronions, a bunch of parsley and green onions,a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil ; moisten with some stock or water, season,and let the beef stew gently till half done, then put in a few small, cabbage.s, prepared in the following man- ner : boil a large cabbage, and having squeezed.it perfectly dry, take off the leaves one by one, and put within each leaf a little veal or other forcemeat, surrounding it with three or four more of the leaves, in such a manner as to form little cabbages, something larger than an egg; tie these with packthread, and let them be stewed with the beef. When the whole is done, clean away the outside loose fat, and put your beef in a dish, cut thelittlecabbages in half, and place them round the dish,with the cut side outward. Take a little of the stew, strain it through a sieve, and having skimmed ofl the fat, add a little cullis to thicken it. Reduce this over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, serving it over the meat and cab- bages. Beef Amourettes in Marinade.—Beef amourettes are prepared and dressed exactly the same as beef brains ; when they are done, let them drain, then cut them into equal lengths, and fry them in batter. Beef Baked.—Let a huttock of beef which has been in salt about a week, be well washed and put into an earthen pan, with a pint of water; cover the pan tight with two or three sheets of foolscap paper; let it bake four or five hours in a moderately heated oven. Beef Baked like Red Deer to be eaten csW.—Cut buttock of beeflongways with the grain, beat it well with a rolling-pin, and broil it; when it is cold, lard it, and marinate it in wine vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace,and two or three bay leaves, for two or three days; then bake it in rye paste; let it stand till it is cold; then fill it up with butter ; let it stand for a fortnight before itis eaten. Beef Bouilli."—Take a rump of beef, or part of one ; bone and tie it together in aneat form, and put it into a pot, with any odd bits of butcher’s meat you may happen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or mutton ; you may add, also, the bones, feet, and necks of poultry or game, the meat of which has been taken for other dishes; place your pot on a mode- rate fire, not quite full of water, and skim gently. When it has boiled a short time, put in some salt, turnips, six car- rots, and six onions, into one of which you should stick three cloves; add a bunch of leeks. Let the whole boil gently, till the beef is perfectly done ; then take it out, and serve it up either with fresh parsley, with a sauce, or with onions or other vegetables. Beef (Boiled) to eat cold.—Slice your beef as thin as possible, and also an onion or shalot; then squeeze on it the juice of a lemon or two, and beat all together between two plates.; when it is well beaten, and tastes sharp of the lemon, put it into a deep dish, pick out the onion, and pour oil on it, shred some parsley and strew over it, and garnish it with lemon, and serve. Beef Boiled with sweet Herbs.*—Line the bottom of a dish with butter, sweet herbs chopped, and bread grated fine, put upon this your beef, cut as small as possible, cover it with sweet herbs, pieces of butter, and bread grated fine; let it cook over a gentle fire, put fire also on the lid of your saucepan, when the beef is completely browned, serve it. You may add pickled girkins or capers. Beef Bruins.*—Put the brains into tepid water to cleanse them from the blood, and to take oft'the thin skin which cover them; take them out and put them into more tepid water ; afterwards put them into boiling water to blanch them; when they have been a few minutes iti the boiling water take them out, and put them into fresh water; cook them in a proper quantity of water, with the juice of a lemon, an onion cut in slices, some parsley, and some bay leaves.