c n 1 ■A ) C II I (1 lemon-peel, poundeil mace, lemon-juice, and muahroum powder. Sliake all over the fire, and serve very hot. Chickens {Cold) Fried. —Cut the chicken into quariers, and rub each quarter with yolk of egg. Mi.x some bread-crumbs with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel and shred parsley, cover the chickens with this, and fry them. Thicken some gravy witli (lour, and add to it cayenne pepper, mush- room-powder or catsup, and a little le- mon-juice. Serve the chickens witli this gravy. Chickens en Friteau.* Cut the chickens in pieces and put them into a marinade of sweet oil, lemon-juice, vine- gar, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and sliced onions. In about two hours drain them, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them. Place them on a dish, with the slices of onion on the top, and fried eggs above them. Make a sauce of oil, lemon, parsley, and tarragon chopped, salt, pepper and garlic. Chicken Fritters. — Make a batter with four eggs, some new milk, and rice- flour ; to this, add a pint of cream, pow- der-sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, fresh lemon-peel grated, and the white parts of a roasted chicken shred small; set all these together on a stove, and st'r well for some time.; when done, take it off, roll out the mixture, cut it into frit- ters, and fry them ; strew sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them hot. Chickens {Galantine of). — Bone a nice plump cliicken very carefully, cut some ham and truffles into slips of an equal thickness, and as near of a length as possible; cut the chicken also into fillets, and add a few slices of veal; form a sort of bed of these in the skin of the chicken, so that when cut, the slices may be chequered : season with all sorts of spices; close tlie skin, form it of a pro- per shape; sew up the back, and stew it, covered with slices of bacon, and pars- ley, onions, thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove, a little spice, carrots, two onions, and some slices of veal; then mix a little broth, and a small quantity of calf’s-foot jelly. When the jelly has boiled an hour take it off, and let it cool in the liquor. If tliis dish is served hot, pour over it any brown sauce ; it is, however, better served cold; take some of the liquor, beat the whites of two or three eggs, and mix tliem with the cold jelly, after having skimmed off the fat: then put the whole over the fire again, and stir till the liquor is white ; then let it boil gently; next take the jelly from the fire, and lay it aside, with a cover and fire over it; when quite clear, strain it through a cloth, and let cool, t'l be used when wanted. If served cold, more pepper and salt must be used. Chicke.vs d la Genoise*—Bone two pliirnp chickens, and fill them with a stuffing made of fat livers, six anchovies, truffles and small onions, all chopped very small. Soak them in oil with lemon-juice ; finish them in veal-gravy, and add some morels and artichoke bottoms. Chickens OK Gratin.—Cut cold roast- ed chicken into pieces, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour in a few spoons- ful of cullis, half a gl.ass of white wine, butter, chopped parsley, shalots, mush- rooms, and season with salt and pepper. When done, place on a dish, with half the sauce, and bread crumbs under them ; set the dish over the fire till it catches at bottom, then serve with the rest of the sauce; Chickens {Grenade of). — Line a mould, ribbed like a melon, with thin slices of bacon ; cut some fillets of chickens ; lard half of them with bacon, and the others with truffles; lay them alternately in the ribs of the mould, and place between each a previously cooked lamb’s sweetbread ; cover the whole with a farce fine ; put a satpicoyi in the cen- tre ; cover that also with the farce ; stick it with forcemeat, and put the mould either in the oven or the bain marie. When done, turn it out; dry the larded slices with the salamander, and glaze them; when of a light brown, uncover thereat, glaze them slightly, and serve with espagnole. Chicken Haslets.*—Cut a cold roast chicken into pieces, and put them upon skewers like a haslet; dip each into egg, beaten up with salt, pepper, parsley, and onions, chopped ; strew bread- crumbs over ; dip them in butter again, bread them a second time, and broil; baste them occasionally with a little oil. Serve tliem with or without sauce. Chickens Histories.—Prepare chick- ens as for roasting, and having given them a turn or two over the fire in a little butter, with the addition of lemon- juice to preserve their whiteness; take them out and wipe them very clean; peel a large onion carefully, and cut it in thin slices, so as to preserve the rings, of which take two or three, dip them in white of egg, place them on the brea-sts, in such forms as you may think proper ; lay in these rings preparations of any colour (see Colours). >;our please, basting the chickens with white of egg to make the colour adhere properly, then cover them with thin slices of bacon, and braise