O LI V LEV (311 it uP) and aa hour before dinner put it on a gridiron, over a slow fire; be care- ful that the paper does not burn; when sufficiently done, take off the tiiread and one sheet of tlie paper j make a small square opening, into which pour a re- duced espagnole. liEVEnET in Caul.— Bone a leveret, and fill it with a good forcemeat, wrap it in a caul, fasten it on the spit, baste with butter, and when done, serve it with a ssMc^piquaiite. Leveuet ail Chevreuil.—^mgc. a good- aized leveret over a charcoal fire, lard and lay it for three or four hours in warm water, vinegar, butter, flour, salt, epper, parsley, shalots, thyme, bay-leaf, asil, sliced onions, lemon-peel and cloves ; fasten it on the spit, put it to the fire, basting it with the above marinade ; strain what remains of it, add a little cul- lis, and serve in a boat, when the leveret is done. , ^ , Leverets, Collops of. * — Take the meat from the bones of a cold roast leve- ret, mince it as fine as possible, with a slice of lamb or veal blanched; put it into a saucepan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little veal gravy, give it afewjturns: in^the meantime, roll out some puft'-paste very thin ; cut it into pieces the size of a crown-piece ; moisten one half of the number, lay a little of the above preparation on each; and cover them with the remaining half of the pieces ; fasten the edges together, and fry them either in lard nr butter.. Leveret, Cutlets of.—Take the fillets from a leveret, cut out as many ribs as you have fillets, and stick a bone in each ; lay them on a dish that will bear the fire, with a little broth, sweet herbs, mushrooms, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter; cover, and set the dish on the fire ; stir them tw'O or three times, when done, serve them with a rich cnllis. Leveret Fillets Bigarrc.*—Take eight leveret filiets, trim and bread the four smallest; liave some breasts of fowl cut in semicircles, slit the four larger fillets, and put one of the semicircles in each, so as to form a J ; broil the four breaded fillets, and fry the four others lightly in butter; dish them alternately en cou- ronne, with a puree of mushrooms in the middle ; glaze, and serve them. Leverets’ Fillets Fried.* —fTaVr: six fillets of leveret, cut each in'o three pieces, and these again in two, by which you will have eighteen pieces: make a farce the same as for hare; split each piece in half; beat tliem with the handle of a knife; season with salt and pepper; spread the farce over, and roll them up. to about the size of a finger ; bread them twice, the last time with egg, and fry them ; drain, and serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Leverets {Fillets) Tourte of.—Cat the meat oft" the leveret into small pieces, each of which roll in grated bacon, salt and pepper; prepare your crust, lay a little butter on it ; then put the meat with more butter, a slice of ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and lay slices of bacon over the whole; cover and bake the tourte; when done, open it, take out tlie bacon, ham, and herbs : make a sauce with the bones and some cullis, pour it in, lay on the top of the tourte, and serve it. Leveret, Gravy of .*—Cut some bacon into dice, put it into a saucepan with some small onions, mushrooms, parsley, thin slices of veal, a little pepper and salt, a ' glass of stock, the same of white wine, two tarragon leaves, and a little lemon ; lay a leveret cut in pieces on these ; cover the saucepan close, and let it stana for tlire or four hours on a slow fire; then take out the leveret, cut the meat from the bones, press out all the gravy until nothing remains but the dry fibres ; take off whatever fat may be on it, and sti ain the gravy for use. LIAISON.—Thickening it is usually done with the yolks of eggs. LIQUORICE Paste. — Scrape and bruise a quarter of a pound of liquorice- root, and boil it in a little water till it is much reduced ; let it stand to settle, and pour it clear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce of gum-dragon : when thoroughly dissolved, sift it in a linen bag. and mix sugar with it till it is brought to the consistence of a paste; then cut it into what flowers or designs you think proper. LIVERS in Caul. — Take the lean livers of pullets, capbiis, geese, lurkies, &c., with marrow, and bacon, veal sweet- breads, mushrooms, and truffles, some lean dressed ham, some onion and par- sley; when it is well minced, mix it with yolks of eggs to bind it; take the caul of a calf or sheep, and cut it into pieces, according to the size you would have them ; lay some of the farce on the piece of caul, and a fat liver upon that, then some more forcemeat, then anotherliver, then forcemeat, and so on till you have laid all; put the caul on a sheet of irapcr, and fry it in boiling lard, or bake them in an oven in a pasty-pan ; when they arc (lone, drain away the fat, lay them in a dish, warm a little gnwy, SM.«on with salt and pepper, and pour it over the livers ; add a squeeze of orange or lemon juice, and serve. Livers (/-a/), Collops eC*—Pound some