APP (21 ) APP in your dish with clarified sugar; cover your fruit with powder sugar, and bake it; when of a good colour ta'ze it out and serve it hot. Apple {Poupeton of).—Pare some good baking apples, take out the cores, and put them intoaskillet; to a pound and a half of apples, put a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a wineglass of water. Do them over a slow fire, add a little cinnamon, and keep them stirring. When of the consistence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool; beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir in four table spoonsful of grated bread, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; then form it into shape, bake it in a slow oven, turn it upside down on a plate, and serve it as an entremet. Apple Pudding {baked).—Pare and uarterfour large apples ; boil them ten- er, with the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when done, none may re- main ; beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon and sugar to taste ; beat altogether and lay in a dish with paste to tu.n out. Apple Pudding d (a Campagne.*— Make a batter with two eggs, a pint of milk, and three or four spoonsful of flour; pour it into a deep dish, and having pared six or eight small apples, place them whole in the batter and bake it. Apvlv Pudding with cherries.*—Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces, put them in a stew- pan, with four ounces of fine sugar, four ounces of butter luke warm, and a pot of fine preserved cherries. Wlien they are warmed through, pour them out upon a dish. Prepare your paste, line your [ mould with it, put in your apples, and i finish the same as in the receipt of Ap- t pie Pudding a Ui Frant^aise. i Apple Pudding a la creme.*—Peel I) and cut into quarters fifteen renneting Ij apples ; stew them with three ounces of h fine sugar in powder, and two ounces of U luke warm butter, when they are just r warmed through, pour them into a dish. r Prepare your paste, line your mould with b It, and put in your apples, arranging H them in such a way that you leave a I space in the middle of your mould, which must be filled up with cream patissiere ) (cold), what sort you please; then finish ^ your pudding according to the receipt of Apple Pudding <i la pyanfuise. Wlien ' ready to serve,mask it with apricot mar- : malade, and strew crushed macaroons all over. Apple Pudding d la Fran^aise.* -To make the entremets properly, it is neces- sary to have a mould in the form of a dome four inches deep and six in dia- meter; this mould and its lid should be pierced all over, the same as a skimmer. There should be a rim round the lid of the dome, that it may cover it so closely that all air may be excluded. Peel six and thirty small red apples, and cut them into quarters; toss them in a stew pan with four ounces of fine sugar (over which must be grated the rind of a Maltese orange),and tour ounces of butter luke warm ; then place the stew- pan over the stove,with fire on the cover; when your apples are done, pour them into adish. Whilst they are cooling, mix up three-quarters of a pound of stiff' paste ; then roll out halfpf it to the thick- ness of the eighth of an inch. With this crust line the inside of your mould,which must be previously well buttered. Be careful that the paste lays q^uite flat, leaving a piece all round the edge of the mould, then put in the best quarters of the apples, and fill up the mould with the rest of the apples and their liquor, then roll out the rest of the paste very thin, into two parts, cut in rounds. Slightly moisten the paste which you have left round the edge of the mould, and place upon it one of the rounds of paste, pinching the edges carefully to- gether, then slightly moisten, and place upon it your other round piece of paste, pinching the edges of this with the others to make it quite close, then cover them with the lid of the mould well buttered. Now, turn your mould over into the middle of a napkin, and tie up the corners of it close over the top of the dome, and put it into a saucepan (nine inches deep and nine wide) full of boiling water ; and let it be kept constantly boiling for an hour and a half j when it has boiled for this time, take it out of the saucepan, untie the napkin, take out the mould, remove the lid, place the mould on a dish, and then carefully take it off’from the pudding; strew fine sugar all over your pudding, and serve it quite hot. Apple Pudding with Muscadelplums,* —Peel and take out the pips of some ren- neting apples, cut them in quarters, and cut each quarter into five pieces. Put them in a stew-pan, with four ounces of fine sugar (over which should be grated the rind of a lemon), four ounces of but- ter, lukewarm, and half a pound of Mus- cadel plums, well washed and stoned. Then place your stew-pan on the fiz-e with fire above. When the apples ai'e warmed through, pour them on a dish, prepare your crust, line your mould with it, put