S A U 449 S A U 2 Q 3 until what flows from the cask is per- fectly clear, and free from smell. Some add juniper and carraways to the salt in making saur-kraut; be careful to keep the cask in a moderate temperature, during the whole year. Saur-kbaut.—Prepare your cask, and slice the cabbages as above; put the lat- ter into a tub to ferment for some hours (not less than twelve, nor more than twenty-four); then make a hole at the bottom of the tub, and press the cabbages hard, to extract all the liquor from them ; when quite dry, put a layer of salt at the bottom of the cask, on which put a layer of the cabbages, on this more salt, pep- per, and a few ripe juniper berries; pro- ceed thus alternately until the cask is nearly full; put on a piece of wood, ex- actly fitting tlie inside of the cask, on which place one hundred and twenty pounds (or more) weight on it. In a few days the brine will form a crust on the top of the cask, when the kraut is fit for use. On taking it out, use a wooden spoon only ; merely leave sufficient brine to cover the saur-kraut; lay a wet cloth all over to exclude the air, and then re- place the lid and weights. The top of the cask should be fre- quently washed with salt and water, and part of the brine be drawn ofl' occasion- ally. Saur-kraut, fo Dress.*—Take out as much saur-kraut from the cask as you think sufficient for a dish, and soak it for two hours in cold water ; then drain, and put it into a stewpan, with some slices of streaky bacon, a servelas, and sausages; add stock, and a little good gravy. Stew it over a slow fire, and serve with the bacon, &c. on it. The skins must be taken from the sausages and servelas, before they are sent to table. SAUSAGES.*-Are composed of various kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly small, with pounded spices, and aromatic herbs, shred fine ; these ingredients are put into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and tied into lengths of from two to five inches. Some persons add to the mix- ture a glass of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other wine. (For pork, beef, and other sausages, see the respective articles.) Sausages, Bologna.*—T&ke the legs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut all tlie lean, scrape it well, remove all the sinews, and rub the meat well with a seasoning made of salt, pepper, corian- der, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and bay- leaf. When properly flavoured, take some bacon, lard, and leaf, and cut tlie whole into dice; mix the fat and lean togetlier, and put it into o.\-guts, tie up the ends, and lay the sausages in a pan of water, with salt, and saltpetre ; cover the pan close, and leave it. In a week’s time lake out the sausages and drain them. Tie them between two pieces ol wood, hang them up to dry, and smoke. When dry, untie them, and rub each over with oil, and the ashes of vine- twigs. mixed together. Keep them in a dry place. Sausages of Marchpane.* — Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, which put on a tin plate, and place it over a stove to dissolve ; as soon as it is so, put it into a pan with a little water, stir it well, and then mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, a small quantity of r-ed, santal, half an ounce of cinnamon, and six or eight cloves (all three in powder). When well kneaded togetherj chop up. some blanched almonds, which strew over the slab, roll out your paste on them, so that they may stick to its surface, to represent the pieces of fat, and cut it into pieces the length and thickness of sau- sages ; place them on white paper, and leave them for some days to dry, and then bake them in a very moderately heated oven; if they be put in too great a heat they will burst. Sausages, au Palatin.*—Take equal quantities of beef-steaks, fresh pork, and leaf; pound these together thoroughly, pour on the pounded meat some good Moselle or Rhenish wine; in about an hour drain off'all the wine which has not been sucked up, season with salt, pepper, spices, and ginger, all in powder, and fill your skins as usual. Sausages {Parma).* — Mince equal quantities of veal, fresh pork, and leaf; take also an equal portion of Parmesan cheese grated ; mix these articles toge- ther, season them with salt, pepper, spices, and coriander (all pounded); fill your skins and tie them into lengths of about three or four inches, and dress them as usual. Sausages (ProycMcafc).—Takea pound of fresh pork, half a pound of veal, half a pound of leaf, three onions, and six cloves of garlic; mince and mix all these ingredients together, add a dozen truffles boiled in a little white wine, and slired, salt, pepper, and spices, and put the mixture into skins. Sausages {Iloyal). — Mince small the meat of a partridge, a capon, or pullet, a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and a bit of leg of veal; shred also some par- sley, chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these altogether, and season with pepper, salt, beaten spice, and garlic; bind the whole with the yolks of six, the whites of two, eggs, and a little cream: