V BA 483 ) YEA the saiiee and peas over it. and serve the lettuces, and forcemeat balls all round. Veal, Cold^ Hashed.—it in slices, flour it, put It into a saucepan with a little good gravy, some grated lemon- peel, pepper, salt, and ketchup. Make it hot, then add a little lemon-juice; serve fried sippets round tlie dish. Veal, Mittced.—Cut the veal into very 1 small pieces, but do not chop it; take a little white gravy, a little cream or milk, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some grated lemon-peel; let these boil till of the consistence of a fine thick cream ; shake flour over tlie veal, and sprinkle it witli a little salt, and white pepper; put it into the saucepan to the other ingre- dients, and make it quite hot, but be careful that it does not boil after the veal has been put in, or it will be hard; before being taken up, squeeze in some juice of lemon ; serve it on a dish over sippets. Veal, Minced^ with Poached Eggs.— Mince part of a roasted fillet of veal ex- tremely fine, put it into a stewpan, and pour over it a sufficient quantity of good hot bechamelle sauce to make it of a tolerable thickness ; then have a stewpan full of water, with a little vinegar in it, and as soon as it boils, break in two eggs, and keep it boiling quick (but not so as to boil over); when they are done, take them out with a cullender spoon, and put them into another stewpan of clear warm water; break two more into the vinegar and water, and do the same as the two first, and so on till six are done ; when you want to serve, squeeze a little lemon- juice in the mince, pour it on a hot dish; take the eggs out of the water neatly, trim them, and lay them on the veal, and serve. Veal, Minced in a Timbale. — Make some mince, the same as mince veal, with poached eggs, and keep it hot by the fire, fry some good plain pancakes, made with- out sugar or lemon-peel; then lay a pancake at the bottom, and all round a well-buttered oval mould, then lay the rest open, and spread each with the mince ; roll them up neatly, and lay them close in the mould ; cover them up with a pancake ; about half an hour be- fore dinner is to be served, put it into a moderate oven ; and when wanted, turn them out in a dish, and pour a little strong gravy in the dish under them. Veal d la Moelte.*—Take some very thin cutlets, beat them well with a rol- ling-pin ; pound a piece of crumb ol bread, about the size of an egg, some bacon, beef-marrow, shred parsley, with pepper, and salt, in a mortar; spread a little of this farce over a slice of veal, and cover it with another; fix the edges together with beaten egg; when all are done, dip them in egg, bread, and broil them. Veal Olives.—Take some slices from a fillet of veal, then cut them round of about the size of the palm of your hand, make a forcemeat with tlie remains of roasted chickens, suet, herbs, eggs, and spices ; lay the slices alternately with a little of this forcemeat and fat liverssliced, truffles, or mushrooms ; continue these to a moderate height,’, the last layer being veal; then roll therri in a caul, and tie or sew them up ; put them into a stewpan, with slices of ham, and veal, parsley, shalots, two cloves, one of garlic, pepper, and salt, a little stock, and one glass of white wine ; let it stew slowly; when (lone, take ofl’the caul, wipe olf the fat, skim, and strain the sauce ; add a little cullis, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, and serve over the olives. Veal Olives.—Cut some thin slices from the fillet (if it is large, one slice will be sufficient for three olives); rub them over with yolk of eggs, strew on them some bread-crumbs, mixed with parsley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper,salt, and nutmeg ; on every piece lay a thin slice of bacon, it must not be too fat; roll them up tight, faste'n them with small skewers, rub the outside with egg, roll them in the bread-crumbs, &c. and lay them in the Dutch oven, and let them brown, without burning; they will take a long while doing; (some prefer frying them). Serve the following sauce over them :—thicken a pint of good gravy with some flour, add ketchup, cayenne, and pickled mushrooms, and boil this for a few minutes. Forcemeat balls may be added. Veal Olives d la Mode. — Take two pounds of veal, beat it very fine, as for forcemeat, and mix it with the yolks of iwo eggs, two anchovies, half a pound of marrow, a few mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, half a pint of oysters, some thyme, sweet marjorum, parsley, spinach, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace, finely beaten ; let the whole be thoroughly well mixed : take a veal caul, have a layer of bacon, and a layer of the ingredients, roll it in the veal caul, and either roast or bake it; when done, cut it into slices, lay them in a dish, and serve a good gravy over them. Veal Olive Pie.—Line your pie dish with a good crust, put in .the olives (see receipt for veal olives), fill up the dish with stock, and put in the oven to bake ; when done, pour in some gravy,thickened with a little cream and flour boiled to- gether, and serve. Veal Mince some veal that 2T2