F R U F RU ( 256 ) an egp. When thoroughly soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. FiiiTTERS en Surprise.*—Take eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave on the stalks; cut off about a fourth part of the stalk end of each apple, and scoop out the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of cup with a lid ; put them to soak for two hours in a glass of brandy with a little lemon-peel and cinnamon; at the end of that time take them out, drain, and fill each apple with apricot marmalade, or frangipane ; mix up a little flour and white of egg to cement the tops of the apples to the other parts; dip them in batter and fry them. When they are of a proper colour, glaze and serve them. Fritters, Stjringed.*—Make a rather stiff batter with some flour, a glass of water, and half a pound of butter; then put it into a mortar and pound it, adding a small quantity of orange-flowers, grated lemon-peel, sweet and bitter al- monds (also pounded); dilute the whole with as many yolks of eggs as will make the batter flow easily. Pour this preparation into a syringe, the end of which is pierced according to your fancy; force the preparation through, and fry them in the usual manner. FROTH to put on Cream., Custard, or Trifle.—Sweeten halfa pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit; put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them till it will stand as high as you wish, and being put on the cream, &c._with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. FRUIT Biscuits.—To the pulp of any scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of sugar sifted, beat it two hours ; then put it into little white paper forms; dry them in a cool oven, turn them the next day, and in two or three days box them. Fruit {to prepare) for Brandy.*—Take tlie proposed quantity of fruit, gathered before tlieyare perfectly ripe ; dry them carefully, prick and put them into cold water; when all in, set the vessel over a moderate fire, keeping the water, how- ever, constantly nearly boiling, until the Iruit will give to the touch; then tlirow them, with great care, into cold water again ; drain away this water, and add fresh ; change the water twice more within a quarter of an hour, after which, drain them for the last time, and put them in bottles ; if any of the fruit is the least broken or bruised, it must be put aside, as it would spoil the rest. In the meanwhile, take a proper quan- tity of sugar (as a pound and a half for twenty-five peaches); clarify and boil it to la nappe ; measure, and put double its quantity of good brandy; mix and pour them into a glazed pan ; let them etand awhile, and then pour the mixture on the fruit. Fruit, Candied.—\t must first be pre- served, then dipped in warm water,dried with a cloth, and strewed all over with sifted sugar, and dried in a stove oroven, turning as occasion requires. Fruit, Candied.—Vvhen the fruit is preserved, dry it in a stove till the syrup IS quite out, dip it into syrup boiled to candy height, and dr^it again. All dried and candied fruit must be kept in a very dry place. Fruit {Dried) au Caramel.'—Cut a number of osier twigs to about three inches in length, and on the end of each, place a dry preserved fruit; then take a small piece of butter, which must be per- fectly free from either salt or water, as otherwise it will adhere to the marble slab, on which it must be rubbed with the palm of the hand all over. The pre- parations properly performed, take some clarified sugar, the quantity must be in proportion to the fruit, and bod it to caramelj then take an osier twig in each hand, dip the fruit into the sugar, turn them round several times that the sugar may adhere on all sides. When the ca- ramel begins to cool, layihe fruit on the buttered slab, and proceed in the same way with the remainder of the fruit until as many are done as are required ; when all are done and cold, take out the twip, and wrap each fruit in paper, with a de- vice as usual. As this operation cannot be performed too quickly, it would be advisable to have two or more persons to do them. F RUiT to prepare for Children.—Put ap- ples sliced, or plums, currants, goose- berries, &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them ; place the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread or rice may be stewed with the fruit, or the fruit may be eaten with slices of dry bread, or with rice, plain boiled. Fruits {Four) Conserve of.*—Take a pound of etich of the following fruits :— Currants, strawberries, cherries, and raspberries, press the juice from them, strain it, set it over a moder.ite fire till reduced to lialf the quantity. Dissolve twelve pounds of sugar, skim it well, and then boil it to cassi; take it from the fire, add the juice, and replace it: let it boil once only, then stir it till the sugar bubbles. Have your cases or moulds ready, and pour the conserve iuto them.