SAM f 445 ) S A U toast. Then fry them in a very hot pan, serve with veal or. mutton gravy, or blond. SALSIFY.*—Salsify is a black root, scrape it well, taking care to leave no spots; then soak it in vinegar and wa- ter; fill a saucepan with water; add to it an ounce of butter, four dessert apoonsfui of vinegar, and some salt; set it on the fire, and as soon as the water boils, put in the salsify, and let it boil an hour. Drain, and serve either with while or brown sauce. Salsify, Fried.*—When the salsify is dressed as above, drain, and fry it lightly in a while sauce, and let it c, ol; then (lip it in -a batter, and fry it. Sal- sify is likewise sometimes soaked in a marinade of vinegar, with salt and pep- per, previous to frying. SALTING Meat.—Meat for salting is the better for hanging three or four days before it is putinlo the brine ; great care should be taken that all the kernels and bloody veins be extracted, and the meat wiped perfectly dry. When a large quan- tity is to be salted, it is best to put it into a large ve.ssel, either of stone, wood, lined with lead, or wood only, and cover it with a brine made of salt and water, sufficient'y strong to allow an egg to flo,it on the top. If only a single joint is re- quired, rub it thorouglily with salt, and- when completely covered, lay it in a pan, and turn, and rub it every day, until wanted. SALT Pudding.*—Take a pintof milk, four dessert spoonsful of flour, a little suet, shred fine, four eggs, salt, and poundecI*girger ; mix first the eggs and milk, then add the flour, &c.; put more flour, if necessary, to give it consistence : tie your pudding in a buttered cloth, and boil it two hours. Salt (Spiced).*—Take four drachms of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two of white pepper, two of allspice, two of mace, two of bay-leaf, two of basil, and two of thyme (lh> oe three latter articles should be dried in an oven). Put these all into a mortar, and pound them to an impalpable powder, and sift it. Take a pound of fine white salt, dry it thoroughly in an oven, or stove, pound it as fine as possible ; sift, and mix with it an ounce of the above- mentioned spices; amalga- mate them thoroughly, keep the spiced salt in a tin box, which will shut per- fectly close. Use it in the following pro- portion : four drachm.s to a pounu of boned veal. SAMPHIIIR, to Drij, or Preserve.— Takeitin bunches as itgrows; seta large deep stewpan full of water on the fire ; as soon as it boils, throw in a little salt, ami put in the samphire; when it looks of a fine green, remove the pan directly from the. fire, and take out the samphire with a fork ; lay it on sieves to drain ; when cold, lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well over it, next day turn them on a sieve, and strew it again with sugar, keep turning daily until it is dry; lake care the stove is not too hot. Samphiiie, to Pickle.—Lay some sam- phire that is green in a pan, sprinkle over it two or three handsful of salt, and cover it with spring water, and let it lay f"r twenty-four hours; then put it into a large brass saucepan ; throw in a handful of salt; cover the pan close, and set it over a very slow fire ; let it stand till it is quite green, and crisp; then take it off, for if it becomes soft it is spoiled ; pul it into a jar, cover it close, and when it is cold, tie it down. SARDINTAS, F»w/;.* —Take two dozen fresh sardinias, dry them thorough- ly, flour, and fry them in clarified butter. They are also salted and eaten in the same manner as anchovies; for which they are frequently used as substitutes. SAUCE.—Few things- require more care than making sauces, as most of them should lie stirred constantly, the whole attention should be directed to them ; the better way therefore, is to prepare the saures before cooking those articles which demand equal care; they may be ' kept hot in the bain-marie. Butter, and those sauces containing eggs, ought never to boil. The thickest stewpans should be used for making sauces, and wooden- spoonsused for stirring them. There is so great a variety of sauces, that it would nearly fill a volume to enu- merate them all. A few of the principal are subjoined, and for manyotiiers, see the re.-ipcctive articles of which they are composed. Sauce d VAUemande.*—Put a slice of ham,and some champignons (previously dressed and shred) into a stewpan ; set it on the fire, and when the ham begins to stick, moisten it with stock and con- somme, boil and reduce it; then take oil' the fat, strain the sauce, and add to it some scalded parsley, two fat livers, capers, anchovies, scallions, all chop- ped, add a bit of butter, put it again on the fire, and when of the requisite con- sistence, take out the scallions, put in some mignonette and lemon-juice, and strain it for use. Sauce auxAtelets.* —V\x\.sQma veloutc. or a bit of butter into a stewpan, with some parsley, scallions, and clntinpig- tiims, all sbred small; set them on the fire, and when they begin to fry, add a little stock, flour, pepper, nutmeg, a 2 Q