A L M { A L M !) ftill, cover them with powder-sugar sifted over them tlirough a tairimy ; as soon as tliat is dissolved strew more (but not such fine) powder-sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Almond Monceaux*—'I'ake half a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into thin sli|)S (lengthways) and roast them on an iron wntil they are of a deep yellow colour, inclining to brown ; beat up the whites of six or eight eggs with a spoon in an earthen pan. Pour over the almonds a pound of sugar finely powdered, four ounces ofcandiedorange peel, the same ot ■candied lemon peel, also cut into thin slips, half a spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and six or eight cloves pounded; mix these ingredients well in the pan, and place it on paper in little lieaps of a pyramidal form, and bake them in a well-heated oven. Aljionds (bitter) Mosaic Tartlets.*— Pound three ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds, to a fine paste, and put it within the tartlets made as directed under that article. Almond Paste.*—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold water for twelve hours, then dry tliem in a napkin, and pound a quarter of them to a very fine paste with a little water and lemon-juice, pass them through a sieve, and tlien pound the remainder {half a pound at a time). When all are (Jane, mix them witli a pound of sifted sugar; place them over- a gentle fire, stirring it continually, until the paste will flow from the spoon ; then pour it into a mortar, and wlien it becomes luke- warm, pound it again with an ounce of gum-dragon previously dissolved in a glass of water and strained, the juice of two lemons, and a pound of sifted sugar. As soon as your paste is of the proper consistence, take it out anol lay it on tbe slab, sprinkled first witli sugar; divide your paste into three parts, and colour caclt part according to your fancy. The colouring or dyes are made of the same materials as are used for almonds. Almond Paste (to keep six, nr even twelve j/jowf/i6’).*—Blanch and pound a pouml of sweet almonds, moistened occa- sionally with water, to prevent their oil- ing; when well beaten, add halfa pound of fine powdered sugar, and mix tl:e whole into a paste to ttse when you liave occasion. When wanted, mix a piece about ilie size of an egg with three gills of water, and strain it through a napkin. A1.MONDS d III Praline (drieil, pre- .scrvc'l nr burttl).*—i^ pound o< the best almonds must be washed in cold water; when thoroughly dry, put them into a preservilJfcj pitii wiili a pouiiU of augtu* and a pint and a lialf ef water, keep them on the fire, stirring them continually, until they crackle and fly about, and the sugar begins to colour, st'r them about gentlj; to gather the sugar, and leave them in the pan to dry about two bouts, in a stove or any moderate heat. Almonds d la Praline Rouge.—Vre.- pare them as above until they tiave ta- ken the sugar and are ready to be taken oirthe fire, put tlie alrnonds’upon a sieve with a dish under, take tlie sugar that drops,and put it into thesame pan, add- ing a little fiesh ; refine it till it eoinea to the twelfth degree (uu cusst), then take cochineal, colour sufficient to tinge the almonds, and put them therein; give tiicin a few turns over the fire in the su- gar, and finish as at first. Almond Pudding (to bake).—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, in warm water; pound them in a marble mortar with two spoonsful of orange flower water, and two of rore water, and a gill of sack ; mix in four grated Naples biscuits, three quarters of a pound of melted butter ; beat eight eggs, and mixtbem witli aquart of cream boiled, grate in half a nutmeg, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; mix all well together; make a thin puli'paste, and lay all over the dish. Pour in the ingredients, and hake it. Alm()nd Pudding (baked).—Steep four ounces of crumbsof bread sliced in a pint and half of cream, or grate the bread; then beat half a pound of blanched al- monds very fine, till tliey become a paste, with two tea-spoonsful of orange flower water; beat up the yolks of eiwht eggs, and the whites of four; mix all well to- gether ; put in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir in three or four ounces of melted butter; put it over the fire, and keep stirring until it is thick; lay a sheet of paper at the bottom of a dish, and pour in the ingredients. To bake lialf an hour. A hMonn Pudding, as prepared at Mexico. —One pound of blanclied almonds, one pound of pnwder-sugar, twelve yolks of eggs and oiglit whites well beaten to- gether, and baked in a flour and water crust. This is also used for puffs. Almond Pudding.*—Blancn and beat a pound of sweet almonds with a little rose water, mix a pound of bread grated, a nutmeg, halfa pound of butter, and the yolks of six eggs, boil a pint of cream co- loured with a very little SHll'ron.add it to the eggs and a little flour, knead it well, .and then put in the almonds, beating it up till .all is mixed together. Boil it for half an hour in a buttered cloth. Almond Puffs.—Blanch iwoounccsof