2 G M US (31 syrup into a pan, and let it stand; when cold, bottle It. MuDDEanv fl^ine.—Take mulberries when they are just changed from their redness to shiniiigblack, gather them on a dry day, when the sun has taken oti the dew, spread them thinly on a fine cloth on a floor or table for twenty-four hours, and boil up a gallon of water to each gallon of juice ; skim the water well, andadd alittle cinnamon slightly bruised; put to every gallon six ounces of white sugar-candy, finely beaten ; skim and strain the water when it is taken oR and settled, and put to it the juice of the mulberries, and to every gallon of the mixture, put a pint of wiiite or rheiiisb wine; let them stand five or six days in a cask to settle ; then drawoff' the wine, and keep it cool. This is a very rich cordial. MULLET, to Choose.—The sea mal- lets are' better than the river-mullets, and the red are considered better than the grey ; to be good they should be very firm. They are in season in August. Mullet, Boiled.—Boil mullets in salt and water; when they are done, pour away part of the water, 'and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, nutmeg, beaten mace, and the juice of a lemon; boil these well to- gether, with two or three anchovies; then put in the fish; and when they have simmered in it some time, put them into a dish and strain the sauce over them. Shrimps or oysters may be added. Mullet Broiled.—Scale and gut them, and cut gashes in their sides, dip them in melted butter, and broil them at a great distance from the fire ; serve with anchovy sauce with capers, and a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon. Mkllets Fried.—Scale and gut them, P'.ur some melted butter into a deep dish, score the mullets across the back, and dip them into the butter; then put some butter in a stewpan, clarify it, fry the mullets in it; when they are done, lay them on a warm dish, and serve with anchovy sauce. Mullet (/ferf).—Eed mullet is called the sca-’voodcock. Clean it, but do not take out the inside ; fold in oiled paper, and gently hake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor whicli comes from the fish, adding a bit of liulter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil, and serve it in a sauce-boat, and serve the fish in the paper cases. . MUSCADINE Ices.—Put an ounce of elder flower into a saboliere, pour upon it about half a pint of boiling water, then 7 ) M U S put on the lid of the saboliere, and let it draw for about half an hour, make a com- position precisely as it were a lemon ice ; to this composition add the infusion ot elder-flower, pass the whole through a sieve, and put it into the saboliere to congeal. MUSCLES f}7«ers.*—Take them out of their shells, and after many wasliings, steep them for two hours in a quart of vinegar, some w.vter, and a little butter rolled in flour, with salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, tarragon, garlic, a little carrot and parsnip, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil, tlie whole m.ade luke warm; then take out the muscles, dry and dip them in a batter made of flour, white wine, a spoonful of oil, and salt, and fry them. Muscle Kelchtip. — Take fiue_ fresh muscles, wash them in their own liquor, pound them in a marble mortar ; to a pint of muscles add a pint of sherry, then give them a boil up, add one ounce of salt, two drachms of mace well pound- ed, and one ounce of cayenne ; give the whole one boil, skim it, and rub it tlirough a sieve ; let it siand to cool, and when cold put it into bottles ; cork it carefully, and seal it down. Muscles d la Minnie.*—Clean and take away the shells as directed for la Poulelte, draw off' all tlie water except what is necessary to cook them in, add a little butter and shred parsley, shake them up a minute or two, and then serve, with a squeeze of lemon. Muscr.ES d la Poulette.*—The mus- cles being thoroughly washed, put them into a pan without any water, and fry them lightly over a brisk fire; as they open, remove tlie shells, strain the liquor from them through a silk sieve. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan, and some shred scallions, give them a few turns on the fire, then add a little parsley, and afterwards a dessert spoonful of flour; mix this well with the butter, and pour in the. liquor from the mu.sclcs, season witli pepper and nutmeg ; give the whole a few boils, thicken it with two or tliree yolks of eggs, and put in the muscles, make, them quite hot,butdo not let them boil. Dish them, and squeeze lemon- juice over them. INluscLES {Ragoitl o/).—Open them, melt a little butter in a stewpan, fry the. muscles a minute with a little chopped parsley, shake a little Ilnur over them, put in a little cream, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-juice; bod them up. If you wish tliem to be brown, instead of cream you should put good gravy. Muscles in Soiyj.*—Take the liquor that flows from the muscles when they open over the fire, and strain it through