CUS CUR { 209 ) then give the custard a simmer till of a i pan with a quarter Of a pound of powder- |i rl and strew the 'currants over as you do ki them; dry the «laze in the oven. i CutiRAN’Ts {Dried), and, Cedrat Pud- ii ding^nglo-Frani^aise.*—Rasp the eeste of a cedrat on a quarter of a pound of lump-sunar, scrape it into a pan, with a glass of Madeira wine, and three quar- ters of a pound of dried currants : take three quarters of a pound of beef-suet, six ounces of marrow, both chopped very small, and five ounces of flour; add to them, with five eggs, half a glass of dream, a pinch of salt, and half a nut- meg, grated ; mix these ingredients with the currants, &c., and finish as directed. : See Marroio Pudding Anglo-Franpaise. CoRBANT {Dry) Pudding.* — Chop a pound of suet, and mix it with a pound of flour, half a pound of currants, (well : washed), a tea-spoonful of pounded-gin- I ger, half a spoonful of tincture of saflron, and a little salt; stir in a sufficient quan- tity of water, to make it a proper con- sistence ; tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour; serve it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. CuRBAN'T Dry Sauce {for P'enison). —Boil for a few minutes one ounce of dried currants, in half a pint of water ; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir the whole well till it is properly smooth. Currant {Dry) fVefers.*—Blanch and cut half a pound of sweet almonds into very thin strips, put them into a sugar, half a spoonful of flour, the grated rind of an orange, two whole eggs and one yolk, and a grain of salt; stir these ingredients with a spatula very gently, so as not to break tlie almonds; when well mixed, butter a baking-plate, about eighteen inches long, by twelve wide, Upon which pour your preparation, spreading it with the blade of a knife, that it may be equally liquid in all parts; and then, with a fork, remove such of the almonds as may lay above the others. Strew over the whole two ounces of dry currants. Put it into a moderately heated oven for two minutes, and then strew over the currants some crushed sugar, and replace them in the oven till they acquire a clear yellowish tinge on both sides : when done, cut it into pieces two inches square, and while warm, press them on a round stick (about two inches diameter), to give them a semicircular form. This operation shotild be per- formed as quickly as possible, that the I wafers may not change colour. CURRY Balls.—Beat* up the yolk of I a hard egg with n small piece of butter; season them with curry-powder; mix them w'ith bread crumbs; and_having maile as many balls as you require, boil them a minute or two, belore you make use of them. Curry Powder. * — Take thirteen ounces of coriander seed, two ounces of black pepper, one ounce of cayenne pep- per, three ounces of cummin seed, six ounces of pale-coloured turmeric, the whole pounded very fine. Set them to dry perfectly before the fire, turning them frequently; mix them well, and when cold, put it into bottles; and if kept in a dry place, will continue good for years. This powder is used to flavour various kinds of meat, fish, and poultry, in the proportion of two table-spoonsful of the powder to two pounds of meat; the onions must be fried first, then the meat and curry, and when it is a little brown, pour On it two cups of water. CuRRv Sauce.*— Put a quarter of a pound of butter in to a saucepan,wi th a tea- spoonful of saffron in powder, five small pimentos, crushed ; make your butter quite hot, and then add five large spoons- ful of veloute; stir the sauce well, and serve it without skimming or straining ; a little grated nutmeg may also be added. CUSTARD.—Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint Of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well beaten ; when the milk tastes of the sea- soning,_8weeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the Cream, stirring it well; proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; then Season with a large spoonful of peach water, and two _tea-spoonsful_ of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish your custards to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream. CusTARBS.*—Take six eggs, leave out the whites ; mix your eggs and sugar to- gether with some rose-water; then boil a pint of cream, and put in the eggs (the cream must not boil after the eggs have been put in). Stir them to prevent them from curdling. • Custards {Small).*—V\xi an ounce of Sifted flouf into a small saucepan, witli one egu , and stir it over the fire till it becomes a very smooth paste; mix with it SIX yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, six maca- roons, crushed, and .a grain of salt; stir It well lor some time, and then add ten moulds full of cream, .half an ounce of crisped orange flowers, or the rind of an orange, lemon, or cedrat. When your moulds are lined with puff-paste, put in each a piece of butler the size of a fil- bert ; then pour in the preparation, and T 3