PAS ( 382 ) PAR bacon; put the birds into this, cover them with a double paper, buttered ; co- ver the saucepan close, put fire on the lid, and set them on a brisk fire for half an hour; let the breasts be as much coloured as if roasted; drain and dish them, Serve with fumet of game, or their own sauce strained. Partridge cX la Tartire.*—The par- tridge being trussed properly, dip it into melted butter, let it be well covered with it; sprinkle salt and pepper over, and roll it in bread crumbs, then broil it very slowly; when done, serve it over a remmlade or sauce d la Tarture, or if you like it better, a sauce piquante, or clear gravy. Partridges with Truffles. — Prepare three or four partridges, with truffles in the inside, the same as directed for pheasants, only, instead ofroasting, stew them in a good braize; then, having a few truffles well prepared, and mixed in good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon ; and wheii very hot, pour the whole over the partridges, and serve. Partridges with Truffles.*— Empty three partridges through the breasts with great care; put a pound of grated bacon into a saucepan; add some mid- dling sized truffles in quarters, salt, pepper and spices ; when they simmer, throw in the trimmings of the truffles; take it oft' in about ten minutes, and when cold, stuft'the partridges with this preparation ; tie them up as round- as you can, and put them into a saucepan between slices of bacon; make a poete without any lemon, pour this over, and simmer an hour and a half; then drain, untie, and lay them in a dish. Mince two truffles, give them a few turns in a little butter; then add three ladiesful of espag7iole, and three of fumet of game, reduce the sauce to half, take oft'the fat, and serve it over the birds. Partridges to Truss.—Partridges are done in exactly the same way as phea- sants are trussed. (See Pheasants.) Partridges d la FiUeroi.—Vni some small onions into a little stock, with a bit of butter, salt and pepper, and having given them a boil, reduce the sauce, and let the onions take colour ; when tolera- bly brown, stuft' two or three partridges (boned) with them, truss them as if whole, h-y them lightly in a little oil, with pars- ley, shalotsand mushrooms ; then braize them slowly for about four or five hours, in stock and white wine, with slices of bacon and veal; skim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis, reduce, and serve it under the partridges. Pa rtri does (Fillets of) d la Chingara .* —Take the fillets of three partridges, and having trimmed, fry them lightly in a little butter ; then cover them with a piece of buttered paper ; take six slices of tongue d I’ecurlule, cut them to the size and shape of the fillets, heat them with some slock in a deep dish ; mince the trimmings of the tongue; then re- duce three spoonsful of espagnole and fne. fumet, (made with the remnants of the partridges) to a demi-glaze. Dish the fillets en couronne, with the tongue between each, pour a part of the sauce over them; put the mince to the re- mainder; mix them well, add to them a small piece of butter, and put it into the centre of the dish. Partridge (FiV/efso/) d la Monglas.* —Take the fillets from six partridges, remove the skin, decorate one side with truffles placed in chequers, and lay them this side downwards in melted butter, do not let them touch, cover them with a buttered paper ; take an equal number of the small fillets, fry them lightly, and when cold cut them into scallops, with as many truffles and mushrooms : reduce four spoonsful of velouie, and two of espagnole, strain it over the scallops, and keep them hot in the huin marie; fry the fillets lightly over hot ashes; when nearly done, add a small quantity of demi-glaze. Arrange your fillets round a dish alternately with fried bread cut in hearts, pour the scallops into the centre, glaze and serve. Partridge (^Fillets of) with Oranges.* — Take the fillets from eight roasted partridges (they should be but slightly done), place them on a piece of fried bread, and pour over them the following sauce:—Four ladiesful of espagnole tra- vaille, a little whole pepper, the juice of a Seville orange, and some of the peel; give this a boil, and pour it over. PASTE.*—Be very particular that your slab or paste table, rolling-pin and cutters are clean, and free from all old aste, and be very careful that both the our and butter are extremely good. Have a dry sieve always in readiness, in or by the flour tub, so as to use none without sifting it; for, though it may ap- pear pure and fine, bran, or small par- ticles of old paste may have fallen into it; sifting is, tlierefore, always necessary. Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a circle on the slab; break one egg in the centre, put a small quantity of salt, and a little bit of butter; mix all these toge- ther lightly, add a little water, mix them again, then add more water, and so pro- ceed until it binds into paste; hut taka care that you do not make it too stiflT, nor squeeze it much together, till you find there is sufficient water; then work