FOR { 247 ) F O VV parsley, and lemon-thyme, finely elired. Beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites, separately, as will make the in- gredients into a moist paste ; roll it into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils. When they are of a light brown colour, then take them out and drain them before the fire. If the suet happens to be moist or stale, it will be necessary to use a great many more eggs. Balls made this way are remarkably light! but rather greasy; some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. FoncEMEAT7-’a«tes.—Make a. farce the same as for Rmu Fm'cemeat Pie, only chop it .smaller, and let the crust be a rich puff-paste ; cut it to the size of the Catty-moulds, fill them with the yterce, eing first rubbed with butter; cover them with puff-paste, and let them bake, in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour; when ready to serve, add a little warm cullis with the squeeze of a lemon. Forceme.4t f</r Pies.—Take a pound of fillet of veal, a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, and some beef marrow; sea- son with pepper, cloves, and grated nut- meg; then add some veal sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, mincing up the whole together very fine. Instead of veal, you may use, if you please, the white part of any poultry or game, or both in equal quantities, and instead of pork, sausage meat. It is with this stuf- fing or forcemeat that meat pies are gar- nished. If you desire to make this force- meat into balls, add the yolks of eggs, and roll them in flour. Forcemeat Pie.* —Take any sort of meat, either a tender piece ofbeef, fillet of veal, leg of mutton, game, or poultry, and chop it up with the same quantity of beef suet, parsley', young onions, and mush- rooms shred fine, and season with salt and mixed spices, moistening with two eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream. When tiie forcemeat is finished, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with paste, and put the forcemeat over it about the thick- ness of an inch, completing the pie the same as all others. Let it bake for two hours, but if made of beef or mutton, still longer. When it is done open the pie, cut the forcemeat into squares, skim oll'the fat, and put in a good cullis. Forcemeat {Ilaiu) Pie.—Tnke fillet of veal chopped, with calf's-udder scalded, raw breasts of poultry, beef suet, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two or three raw eggs; when well pounded, and seasoned, make it into balls, or into th.e shape of sausages; put them into the pie, and if you choose you may add arti- choke-bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, sweetbreads, &c., with some butter ; finish the same as all other pies. Forcemeat for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod.—Take equal quantities of fat bacon, beef suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savory, ,~i small quantity of onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram, shred fine, and one or two anchovies, a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be a great improvement, either with or with- out anchovies; add bread-crumbs, and an egg to bind. Forcejieat {Portuguese') for Baked Soles.—Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlic or shalot, some parsley', anchovy, pepper, salt, and nut- meg ; pottnd the whole fine with a few bread-crumbs added to it, and bind with the yolks of two or three eggs. FOWLS, Directions for choosing and dressing.—When a cock is young, his spurs are short; take care that you are not deceived by their having been cut or pared, a trick that is often practised. If fresh their vent will be close and dark. Hens are best, just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg ; if they are old, their combs and legs are rough. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with paper. The cook should be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall- bag, for no washing will take off the bit- ter where it has touched. If for roasting, black-legged fowls are the most moist. A good-sized fowl will take from three quarters of an hour to an hour in roasting, a middling-sized one about half an hour, and a very small one, or chicken, twenty minutes. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually' basted, that tl.'ey may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or garnished with sausages or scalded parsley. A large barn-door fowl, well hung, should be stuRed in the crop with sau- sage-meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, like a turkey. For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged ; pick them carefully, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them in boiling water ; a good-sized one will be done in half an hour.