BAR ( 39 ) B,A R freeze it; take care that it is tliick and smootli before you put in moulds. BARBERaY Jelly.—Pick a pint of bar- berries, and put them into a stevvpan with boiling water, cover it close and let it stand till nearly cold. Set on the. fire some clarified sugar with a little water, (making a quart together;) when it be- gins to boil, skim it well, put in the bar- berries, let them boil an hour; squeeze the juice of three lemons through a sieve into a basin, to this, pass the liquor from the barberries, and then the isin- glass. Barberry Jelly.*—Take some very ripe barberries (what quantity you please) and before you seed them take two-tbirdsof their weight in sugar. Boil your sugar au perli, then put your bar- berries into it, and give the whole a few boilings, then pass it through a silk sieve into a pan, pressing the barberries with a spoon to extract as much juice as possi- ble from them ; this done, put it again over the fire, and when you perceive it begins to form the scum, take it oft'and pour it into pots. Barberry Marchpane.*—Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of bar- berries ; pound the almonds to a paste, mix them with the sugar boiled to petit bouli, and then add the juice of the bar- berries strained ; stir them together well, and place them on hot ashes, stirring them continually unti I the paste is form- ed; then put iton a table sprinkled with sugar and let it cool; spread it out about the thickness of a crown piece; cut it into various forms, place them on sheets of paper, and bake them in a moderate oven and glaze them. You may use any other fruit you think paper. Barberry Marmalade.*—Take three pounds of very ripe barberries, the same quantity of sugar, and a pound of water : put the water into a deep broad silveror copper pan, and as you take the seedsoiit of the barberries, throw the latter into water, then give them a few boilings over the fire; after this put them into a sieve, and bruise them lo extract the pulp, which must again be put over the tire until the rnoisture has entirely evapo- rated. This done, if the pan in which you put your barberries at first was of copper, pour the pulp which was extract- ed from the fruit into an earthen vessel to prevent the acid of the fruit when heated from acting on the copper ; but if your vessel was of silver, you may safely putyoiirpulpintoit when heated, then pour upon the pulp the sugar, which must be previously clarified and boiled au cami; give the whole a few boilings. stirring it well with a wooden spoon, then pour your marmalade into pots. Barberry Dissolve half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of water, strain it in a cloth or bag, and put it into a mortar, with a spoonful of barberry marmalade; mix it well, and add as much powdersugar as will make it into a malleable paste ; you may also put in a little cochineal dissolved; form it into what shapes you please. Barberry Pickle.—Bruise and strain ripe barberries, and to a pint of juice put three pints of vinegar, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of pounded ginger. Boil all together, skimit clean, and pour it while boiling into jars, in which have been put bunches of ripe barberries. When cold,add a little bruised cochineal. Tie them close. Barberriesprexeruetf in Bunches.*— Choose those barberries which have the largest seeds, which may be extracted carefully with the nib of a pen. Weigh your fruit, and mix it with an equal weight of sugar boiled to petit houU; boil them together two or three times, and skim it. Set it aside in an earthen ves- sel until the next day, when it may be put in pots and covered. _ BARBERRiEsS<eioerf.*—Take large and ripe barberries of a fine red colour, and pick them. Boil sugar to laphtme, and then throw in your barberries, and do them togother seven or eight times. Skim, and put it into pots. Barberry Syrwp.—Pick the barber- ries, boil and pulp them, then strain them, and clarify the juice ; then boil it up with as many pounds of fine sugar into a syrup, and if that does not make it thick enough, add more sugar. Barberry /Fb/e«.—Press out the juice from as many barberries as you may require, and mix it with powder sugar, and the white of one egg, and stir it up with a wooden or silver spoon, to a fine paste. Lay a sheet of water paper on a baking plate, and spread your paste over it very thin with a knife ; cut it into twe ve pieces, and put them round a Stick fine paste upwards) in a hot stove to curl ; when half curled, take them off carelully, and set them up endways in a sieve; let tliem stand for a whole day in a hot stove. Barberry fViter.— Put two large spoonstul of barberry jam, the juice of two lemons and a gill of syrup in a basin, and dilute it with water; add a little cochineal, and if not rich enough, more syrup : strain it through a fine sieve. BARLEY Broth.—Chop a leg of beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of water, lit 2