( 114 ) C A P CAP put to it some salt. Put them into but- ter, melted very smooth ; let them boil up, and then pour them into a sauce- boat. Caper Sauce fqr Meat.—Having some butter sauce made hot, mix in a lew chopped capers, with one squeeze of lemon-juice ; melted butter will make the same, but of an inferior kind. CAPILLAIRE, To Make.—Take four- teen pounds of sugar, three pounds of coarse sugar, six eggs beat in with the shells, three quarts of water; boil it up twice; skim it well, then add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water; strain it tlirough a jelly-bajj, and pul it into bottles; when cold, mix a spoonful or two of this syrup, as it is liked for sweetness in a draught of warm or cold water. Capillaire, Synip o/.*—The capil- laire of Canada, although that of Mont- pellier is equally good, is a very odo- riferous vegetable, light and agreeable, but so extremely volatile, that the greatest part of it is dissipated during the preparation of the syrup. To pre- serve then the odour of the capillaire, when your syrup is sufficiently done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up; then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite cold, then pass it through a bolting-cloth to separate it from the leaves of the capillaire. - Take one ounce of the capillaire from Canada; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it four pints of boiling water, leave it to infuse tor twelve hours over some warm ashes; strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will give you a strong tinc- ture of capillaire; melt in this tincture four pounds of sugar, put the whole into a preserving-pan, and put it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg, continue the cooking; when your syrup is perle, put some fresh capillaire, chop- ped, into a pan, and pour your syrup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your pan carefully, and let it cool ; when your syrup is cold, you may flavour it if you please. Put it into bottles, and cork them hermetically. Capillaire, Syrup of.*—Take some good capillaire, chop it up, not very small, put it upon a sieve ; pour upon it some boiling water, and then let it in- fuse for ten hours in a vessel well co- vered ; strain this infusiqn, and put into it some sugar boiled au casst; clarify this syrup with the whites of eggs whipped; skim it till it is very clear: when it rises, take it oITthe fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into bot- tles. Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for a quarter of an hour in river-water; after having passed this boifing through a sieve, they put into it some powder- sugar, and clanfy their syrup with water, or a whole egg beaten up; then skim it, and when it is very clear and has boiled au lisse, they take it ofl' the fire, and put into it_ some orange-flower water, and strain it through a napkin or straining- bag, leaving it to cool before putting it into bottles. For three pints and a half of syrup, you must use two good ounces of ca- pillaire, four pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents syrups from candy- ing. Capillaire, Syrup of.—Put an ounce of the leaves of the herb called Maiden- hair, for a moment, into boiling water ; take them out, and put them in a little tepid water, leaving them to infuse for at least twelve hours upon hot embers; then strain them through a sieve ; next put a pound of sugar into a saucepan, with a good glass of water; boil it to the same degree as for syrup of violets, then put to it the capillaire, or Maiden-hair water, not suftering it to boil; take it ofi'the lire as soon as it is well mixed with the sugar; put it into an earthen an closely covered, and set the pan, uring three days, over hot embers, keeping the heat as equal as you can, but not too violent. When the syrup will extend into a strong thread between your fingers, put it into bottles, taking care not to cork them till the syrup is quite cold. Capillakie Syrup.—Take two quarts of fine syrup, and boil it to a blow; boil twice or three times, two gills and a half of orange-flower water, skimming it all the time; put it into new bottles and cork it up the next day; put_ pieces of bladder over the corks, but mind that it is a fine syrup before you take it off. CAPILOTADE a I’ltalienuc.—Cnt up a cold roast fowl; then t.ake a good slice of butter, and some shred mush- rooms and potherbs ; fry these till they are about to turn brown, with a tea- spoouful of flour; then add to them a large glass of white wine. Let the whole simmer together for a quarter of an hour; next put in the piece.s of fowl, and heal them up for a few minutes. Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread ; and just before you serve, pour into the saucepan two table-spoonsful of oil. tak- ing care that it does not boil, and stir it up well with the sauce. CAPON, BoikJ.—Diav/ your capon.