C A K C A K ( 95 ) Cakes ( Liquorice.)—Talce hyssop and red rose-«Titer, of each half a pint, hall a pound of green liquorice, the outside scraped off, and then beat with a pestle j put to it lialf a pound of aniseeds, and steep it ail night in the water; boil it with a gentle-fire till the taste is v/ell out of the liquorice; strain it, put to it three pounds of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle fire till it is come to the thickness of cream; take it off, and put to it half a pound of white_ sugar candy seered vciy fine ; beat this well together for at least three hours, and never suffer it to stand still ; as you beat it, you must strew in double-refined sugar finely seered, at least three pounds; half an hour before it is finished, put in half a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in orange-flower water : when it is very white then it is beat enough ; roll it up with white sugar; and if you want it per- fumed, put in a pastil or two. Cakes {Little).* — To a pound of flour dried, add a pound of lump sugar rolled very fine, the peel of two lemons chopped small, and five ounces of butler; mix tliem thoroughly ; let it stand some lime before the fire, then add three eggs well beaten, the whites separately, pick them with a fork into small lumps, and bake them on a tin : this quantity will make about eighty cakes, instead of lemon- peel you mas’, if you please, add sixty bitter almonds blanched and beaten with white of egg until they are quite fine. Cakes {Lillie Short). — Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of but- ler, four ounces of white powder sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and carrawaysinto the rest. Cut them with the top of a canister, or glass, and bake on tins. Cakes {Lillie., for Tea). — Mix one pound of dripd flour, half a pound of fine sugar sifted, one ounce ofcarraway' seeds, a liitle nutmeg and pounded mace ; beat the yolks of two eggs with three spoon- fuls of sack : put these to the rest, with half a pound of butter melted in a little thin cream, or new milk; work all to- gether, roll it out thin, cut it into cakes with till or glass; bake them on tins; a little baking does in a alack oven. Cakes {Little fVhite).— Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few carraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister, or glass. Bake filieen minutes on tin plates. Cakecm Make a puff paste; roll it out to the thickness of half a fin- ger ; cut it in lozenges the width of two fingers, and gild over the cake with the yolk of an egg well beaten; bake them for a full quarter of an hour in an oven, then glaze them with sugar and a sala- mander. Cake a la Madeleine.—Take the same weight of flour, sugar, butter, and eggs. In general eight eggs are sufficient for an eutremet; put in a little salt and the rasped peel of a lemon ; work this paste a little till you have put all the butter into it. Melt a little butter in a stew- pan, and skim it well; pour a little into each mould, and then drain it, leaving, however, a drop at the bottom to facili- tale the coming out of the cake. Sift some ashes over a baking sheet, put the small moulds into it, and then put paste into eacli of them, about half the depth, to give it room to rise. Bake them in a moderate oven. When done, turn them out on a clean sheet of paper, and put them again into tlie oven for a few mi- nutes. By clianging the form of the mould you produce a dish of a different appearance ; and by occasionally empty- ing the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity either cream or sweetmeats, you make what is called Cakes d la Madeleine Farcies. Cakes d la Manon.*—Form some puff paste into an under-crust, and cover some baking plates with it; then spread all over them some frangipane, or mar- malade, of whatever sort you please; add some sweetmeat, and then cover with a very thin crust; gild and ornament them, then put them in the oven ; when they are three parts done, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. When they are glazed put them to finish baking in a more gentle oven, and when done take them out of the tins, and serve them either hot or cold. Cakes {Maudling).—Take a quarter of a peck of flour, well dried before the fire, add two pounds of mutton suet, tried and strained clear off, and when it is a little cool, mix it well with the flour, some salt and a very little allspice beat fine ; take half a pint of water, stir it well together, strain it, and mix up your flour into a paste of a moderate stiffness ; you must add as much cold water, a.«> will make the paste of a right order, and make itmto cakes about the thickness and higiie.ss of an oat cake; have ready some currants clean washed and picked, strew some in the middle of your cakes, between the dough, so tliat none can be seen till the cake is broke. You may leave the currants out if you do not choose them.