0 0 0 (27 whole; carefully pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread, fasten five or six of them together, by running the thread through the bottoms of them, lill they are the size of a hop. Put vine leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving-pan ; cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close, that the steam may be prevented from escaping; set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, then take it off', and let it get cold, and so continue, till, on opening, while cold, the gooseberries are of a nice green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water; boil and skim it well; when half cold, put in the fruit; the next day give it one boil; do this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week; but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of gin- ger in boiling ; when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup is found too sour, a little sugar may be added, and boiled in it, before the hops intended for drying are boiled for the last time. GoosEBEnav ./am.—Take what quan- tity you please of red, rough, ripe goose- berries ; take half their quantity of lump sugar;break them well,and boil them toge- ther for half an hour, or more if necessary. Put it into pots, and cover with paper. Gooseberries to Keep.— When the weather is dry, pick the gooseberries that are full grown, but not ripe; pick off'the tops and tails, and put them into open-mouthed bottles; gently cork them with quite new velvet corks; put them in the oven after the bread is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; then take them out of the oven, and im- mediately beat the corks in tight, cut off' the tops, and rosin them closely down ; set them in a dry place, and if they are well secured from the air, they will keep the year round. If they are gathered in the damp, or the gooseberry skins are the leastcutin taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The hairy sort only are used for keeping, and they should be done be- fore the seeds become large. There are a variety of ways of keeping gooseberries, but this, we think, is one ot the best and most easy methods of preserving them. Gooseberry Marmulnde.—Boil them a moment, or only scald tliem in boiling water, sift them ihrongh a sieve ; reduce them over the fire to half, then mix them with sugar prepared to the ninth degree 1 ) GOO (d In grande plume), half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. , Gooseberry J^as/e.—Upon two pounds of fruit put about a glass of water; boil them a little while, and sift them through a sieve with expression ; put it upon the fire again to reduce the juice to a soft paste consistence, stirring continually ; when it is come to a pretty thick sub- stance, add a pound of sugar prepared to the ninth degree {grandeplume), stir- ring continually with a wooden spoon, till it becomes of a pretty substantial thickness. This paste ought to be ap- plied directly to what purpose you pro- pose. This is mostly done in moulds of different shapes and sizes, made like hoops, without tops or bottoms; pul them upon a baking plate to dry in a stove of a moderate heat. Be careful to keep them in a dry place. Gooseberries, Clear Pasteof.—Bruise the gooseberries, then boil them a mo- ment, and sift them, first in a sieve and then in a coarse stamine; to half a pint of this juice mix one pound of sugar boiled to the twelfth degree (aw casse), mix it by degrees with the sugar, boil it a moment, take it off'the fire, skim it, and then give it two or three more boilings; the way to know when it is perfectly pre- pared to put into cups or glasses, is by taking some with a silver spoon, and if it falls out in turning over, and extends a little, like pretty firm jelly, it is done. Gooseberry Pie.— Line your dish with a nice puff-paste: lay in your gooseberries; sweeten itwell; put on the cover,and finish the same as all other pies. Gooseberries Preserved, — Put one quart of red currant juice to five pounds of loaf sugar ; set it on the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, put in eiglit pounds of red, rough, ripe gooseberries ; let them boil half an hour, theii put them into an earthen pan, and leave them to stand for two days; then boil them again, till they look clear, put them into pots, and let them stand a week to dry a little at the top ; then cover them with brandy paper.s. Gooseberry Pudding(Balced).—ScM a pint of green gooseberries, then rub them through a sieve ; put to them half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, three Naples^ biscuits, four eggs well beaten;_ mix the whole well together, and let it bake half an hour. GoqsEBERRY Puddiug (Boiled).— pudding is made in the same manner as Apple pudding. Gooseberry Snwee.*—Take two hands- full of half ripe gooseberries, open them, and take out the seeds; blanch them in a little salt and water, and drain them.