CEL CEL ( 130 ) in piect^g, and dip tlifMTi in good plain batter, and fry them. Sprinkle salt over them when you serve. Another (V%y.—Wash and cut oil' the green top.s of six or eight heads of fine celery, and dip each head into batter made as follows: a pint of white wine, the yolks of three eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg; fry the heads in but- ter. Serve with melted butter over. Celery Fritters.* — Take about a dozen heads of celery, and cut them six inches above the roots, which must be rounded ; wash them well, blaneti them for a quarter of an hour, then let them cool and drain; lie them up in four packets ; line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, and put on them your celery, a bunch of herbs, seasoned with salt, and moistened with skimmings of the pot, cover them with bacon and paper; stew them, and when done drain and press them. Then soak them in brandy and sugar ; dip them in batter, and fry them. Drain, glaze, and serve them. CELRRY/or Garniture*—For this pur- pose the heart and wliite leaves only must be used. Brown in a stewpan, a little fat, and a spoonful of flour ; add a small quantity of stock, parsley, salt, and pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in the celery, and some gravy, and reduce them over the fire. Celery au Gratin.—Take a dozen heads of white celeiy,trimofi‘the stringy parts, and cut the rest into pieces about the size of a shilling; boil them tender, and then stew them in good gonsom/nS, witii a bit of butter, a little sugar and salt. When nearly done drain and toss them up in some becliamelle, with the yolk of an egg; put them in a dish, and shake some fine bread crumbs over, and with a spoon sprinkle some clarified but- ter on that, and then bread-crumbs again. Brown it with a salamander. Celery, {Puree of).—Cut the whitest part of several heads of celery, and blanch them in water to take out the bitter taste ; let it cool and drain. Then put it into a stewpan, with a little, consomme and sugar. Let it stew for an hour and a half, and be reduced till no moisture remains, then mix it with four spoonsful of bechnmetle or veloute; strain the whole through a tammy, and put it in the bain marie. When ready to serve, put in a little thick cream. Celery (Rueotlt of).—Cut the white part into lengths, and boil it till tender, fry and drain, and flour it, put it into some rich gravy, a little red wine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and catsup. Boil it up. C ELF, a.\ Sauce.—Cut a dozen heads of fine celery into pieces about the size of a shilling; blanch, and pnt them into a small stewpan, with consomme enouirh to cover them, a small bit of butter, a little sugar and salt, and lay a round paper oyer the whole; let them wew gently, I till nearly done, then shake them up in I beohmnelle sauce. Second fFay.—C\it boiled celery into pieces two inches long; put them into a stew-pan with some veal gravy which tastes strong of spices and herbs, thicken it with three quarters of a pound of but- I ter rolled in flour, and lialf a pint of cream ; boil it up, and squeeze in some lemorr-juicp. Third JVay.*—Blanch about a pound of fillet of veal in some stock; stick it with stalks of celery, in the same manner as larding it; slice some onions into a ; stewpan. also two carrots, and a small | piece of bacon stuck with cloves, lay in i the veal, and let it stew gently till it i begins to burn, and stick to the bottom i| of the pan ; then put in a little stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for three u hours. Pass it through an unbleached *- napkin, and serve with whatever meat i; you please. Garnish your dish with the i. veal, cut in pieces, and laid round. Celery Sauce, {Brmvn).—Cut into lengths as before; boil and drain it; put in in some good gravy, with a little flour mixed in smooth, a little ketsup, pep- per, salt, and nutmeg; boil all up to- gether. Celery Soup.—Neatly trim and wa-'h i two dezen heads of fine celery, split each i in two, and put them to blanch in a large stew-pan of water with plenty of salt; ' when tender drain them on a sieve, and H stir the soup over the fire, with about ! three ounces of butter, and a very little i sugar and salt. When the butter begins i to look clear, mix in a ladleof consomme, m' when that has boiled for a few minutes !j andthecelery is perfectly mashed, stir : in three table-spoonsful oNauce tournee, ! and when this is well boiled rub the i whole through a tammy; add a pint of strong consommee, and nearly as much thick cream. Put it into the soup pot, and half an hour before you want it, set ■ it on the fire to boil, and skim it. Serve ■ it with celery cut round, blanched and i ' stewed. If you wish the soup to be brown instead of white, use espagnolc, and no cream. Celery Sfeim/.—Boil till tender the white part, and cut it in pieces; stir some cream over the fire, with two yolks of eggs,putin the celery, salt, pepper, mace, and grated lemon-peel; shake all to- I gether. but do not let it boil. Another Ji'ay.—TioWA dozen heads of ! fine celery in salt and water till nearly I