219 )' DUG DUG liiiRS, which truss like a fowl for boiling! put it into a pot (just about large enougti to hold the duck) with th.iii slices of bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a bay-leaf; when done, take out tlie duck, wipe the fatolf very clean, and serve with what sauce or ra- gofit you choose, such as sweetbreads, green-pease, turnips, chesnuts, olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed greens, according to the season. Ducks, Fricasseed- — Quarter them, beat them well with the back of a knife, dry them well, fry them in fresh butter; when they are almost done, put in some onions shred small, and a little thyme; add a little claret, tiiin slices of bacon, par-sley and spinach, boiled green, and shred small. Break the yolks of three eg7S into a dish, with a little pepper, find some grated nutmeg, toss them up with a latllefiil of drawn butter; pour this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon them, and serve. Duckling, Fricasseed.—Cut the duck- lings into small pieces, dry them, flour them, and fry them in butter; then talte a little canary, some parsley, and onion, chopped small; a little whole pepper, and a blade of mace; add to these some sugar, butter, and verjuice ; then pick the stalks off from a good handful of clary ; make a batter of three or four eggs, flour, and cream, with a little nutmeg; fry these, and having placed your duckling on a dish, pour the fried clary, &c. upon them, and serve. Duck, Fillets of, and Truffles.*—Hav- ing mt your fillets, toss them up in a little butter, tVith parsley and shalois, shred fine. 'I'ake a dozen of truffles, soak them in white wine, and slice them; place a layer of ihe fillets into a stewpan, then a layer of the sliced truffles, and 80 on, alternately (strewinu small pieces of fresh butter on the truffles), until all your materials are used ; cook them over a slow fire till done, when place them in tli6 dish fur table; pour white wine and consomme, of each lialf a glass, into the same stewpan, boil them toge- ther for about a quarter of an hour; skim, and then pour it over the fillets. Duck en Grenade.*—Hnnn a duck, beginning with the back, without break- ing the skin ; and cut the whole of the meat into dice; do the same with truf- fles, veal sweetbreads, breast of fowl, and bacon; cook these over a gentle fire, with sail, pepper, and nutmeg, add the yolks of tliree eggs to thicken it, stir it well, and then put it in the skin of the duck, giving it the form of a balloon oi' oval, ia.sten up the ends, and cook it like a fricaiideanx, over a slow fire ; re- duce the gravy that it yields to a jelly, and glaze your duck with it, and add to the sauce consomme, veal gravy, &c. Duck, Hashed.—Cat, a duck in pieces, and flour it; put in a stewpan some gravy, a little port wine, shalots chop- ped fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of lemon ; boil this ; then put in the duck, toss it up, take out the lemon, and serve with toasted sippets. Duck, Hashed in different TVays.— Roast a couple of ducks till they are three parts done, .and let them cool; then cut the breast in thin slices, taking care to preserve the gravy ; the legs will serve for another dish, which you may dress by wrapping them in a cowl with a good farce, and serve with cullis sauce ; for the slices you have cut from the breast, cut cucumbers, and marinate them about an hour with a little vinegar, salt, and one onion sliced; then take out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a slice of bam, a little stock, flour, and veal gravy ; boil slowly, skim it well, take out the ham, and then put in the duck to warm, with- out boiling. You may likewise do the same with chopped truffles or mush- rooms, or any thing else you may think proper, according to the season. A cold roasted duck will answer much the same purpose for this dish. Duck in Hotch-pot.*—Cut a duck into quarters, and stew it in a small pot, with some turnips, the quarter of a cabbage, parsnips, carrots, and onions sliced, (all parboiled,) some good stock, a bit of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind left on, a Imnch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the whole is done, put the duck into a tureen, and the ve- getables round it; skim the fat oil' the liquor in which the vegetables were stewed ; add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, which must be served over the duck. T>WTi., Fillets of, Ala Majnelle.*—C\\t the fillets from two or three young ducks, about two thirds roasted, taking care to collect the gravy, and put it into a stew- pan ; add to it half a glass of white wine, the same of veal gravy, or good consomme, a liver, two truffles, both cut small, salt and spices; let these stand over a slow lire to thicken ; put your ducks in, and linish cooking them, taking care that the sauce only simmers the wliole lime. f)vc\ifi,hroiledv)ith Mushrooms.—Th& inside being taken out of .a couple of ducks, torn the legs under the skin, and U 2