BEE BEE onions. When the beef is done, take it out and clear off the fat; put it in a disli with the onions round ; pour over it a good brown sauce. A rump of beef dress- edin tliis way may be varied with differ- ent sauces or ragouts, according to your taste. Beef (Rump of) d la Cardinule.*— Choose a rump of beef of ten or twelve pounds, and having taken out the bone, lard it with a pound of b.'icon, cut it in bits, and season it with salt and spices. The upper part of the beef, which is covered with fat, should not l)e larded. Next, take four ounces of powdered salt- oetre and rub into the meat, that it may lookied ; put it in a pan with one ounce of bruised juniper berries, three bay leaves, a little thyme and basil, and one pound of coarse salt; let it remain eight days, the pan being well covered. \Vhen the meat has taken the salt, wash it in warm water, and put some slices of bacon upon the upper part, or that which is covered with fat, tying a linen cloth over the whole with packthread: then let it siew gently for five hours with a pint and a half of red wine, a quart of water, five or six onions, two cloves of garlic, four or five carrots, two parsnips, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, four or five cloves, parsley, green onions, and the quarter of a nut- meg. When it is done, leave it to cool in its own liquor, and when quite cold, serve. The short ribs of beef may be done in tbesarae manner. Beef (Rump of) in its own Gravy.— Boil a bowed ruiiip of beef on a very slow fire, in short liquid, about eight or nine hours, with a faggot of parsley, chibbol, two laurel leaves, a clove of garlick, two shalots, thyme, four cloves, half a nut- meg, pepper and salt; when it is done, skim off the fat very well, and serve it .with the broth after having strained it. Beef Salted.—Beef should be rvell sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with the salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong: it should be turned every day ; and, if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and, when cold, pour it over the meat that has been sprinkled and drained. Beei' Salted (for immediate use.)—The piece should not weigh more than five or •six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before'you put it into the pot ; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put tiiC meat in, and fold it up close • put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you wc)uld any other salt beef of the same* size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Beef Salted (in the Dutch way.)— Take a lean piece of beef, and rub it well with brown sugar (some pour treacle over it); let it He at least two days, turning it very often ; then wipe it, and salt it with cummon salt and saltpetre; beat the salt- petre fine, rub itwell in, and turnitevery day for fourteen or fifteen days; then roll it very tight in a coarse clotii, and press it down rvith a large weight; hang it to dry in a chimney, liut turn it the bocioin upwards every day; then boil it in pump water: it will cut into shivers like Dutcfi beef. Beef Salted Red, which is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or t i hang to dry.—Chuo-e a piece of beef with as little bone as you can, (the flank is most proper) sprinkle it and let it drain a day, tlieiirub it with common salt,salt- petre, and bay .salt, but only a small pro- portion of the saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder; rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen, drain it from the pickle, and let it be smoked at the oven mouth when heated with w'ood, or send it to the baker’s; a few days will smoke it. A little o! tlie coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit. boil it till extremely tender, and, while hot, put it under a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving ou bread and butter. Beef Sausages.’—Take two beefsteaks about the size of two hands, and the thickness of a finger; bent them well to make them flat, and p.are the edges of them; then mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, green onions, mushrooms, two shallots, and some basil leaves, tlie whole slired fine, and mixed into a force- meat with tlie yolksof lour eggs ; spread this forcemeat on the slices of beef, and roll them up ill the form of sausages: tie them tip with packthread,and stew them with a little slock, a glass of wine, some salt, pepper, an onion stuck with two or tiiree cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip; when they are done, strain the liquor; and, having skimmed ort tlie fat, reduce it ever the fire to tlie omsistonce of a sauce. Take care that the s.»iice is not too highly flavoured, and serve it over your sausages; or they may be served