APR APR (29) foui th day drain them; and, having '.placed tliein on iron plates, sprinkle them with sugar before you put them into the stove to dry; when dry, place in boxes in layers, placing a sheet of paper between each layer. Apricot Take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots; peel and cut ■the kernels into small pieces; also cut up the apricots. ,Boil two pounds of su- gar, until on blowing it flies oft'in sparks; then put in the kernels and fruit, and boil tliem together, until it forms a thread ; then strain through asieve. The sugar must be put in proportion to the time you wish to keep the syrup; two pounds of sugar to one pound of fruit is the quantity to keep from one year to the other. Apricot Tart.—Cat each in two, and break the stones; if the fruit is not ripe enough, boil a little while in water, then drain them well; put them into paste with sugar, a little preserved lemon, and a few of the kernels; cover it, strew sugar over, and glaze it. Apricot Tartlets.*—Vat a quarter of a pound of sugar, two glasses of water, and six fine ripe apricots cut in halves ; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, take out the fruit with a fork and put it into a plate ; and do twelve more halves with the same sugar; take them out also, and pare the whole number. Pass the sugar through a napkin, and then put it again into your preserving pan to reduce the syrup and make it a little thicker. Dilute half a pound of flour, and make it into a fine but rather firm roll it out very tliin (to about the of an inch); turn it over and cut from it twenty-four narrow slips ; then spread out the remainder of your paste, and, with a round paste-cutter, two inches in diameter, cut twenty-four cakes, and put them upon as many tart- let moulds lightly buttered; do this with as much care as possible that no air may get bctiieen the mould and the paste. Roll each band or slip of paste on the slab with your hand, double and twist it into a cord, and having moistened the edges of the tartlets, put the cords round like frames ; when all your tartlets are thus embellished, dorez the twisted bands, put a small quantity of powder sugar in each tartlet, and on that lay an half apricot, the kernel-side downwards. Bake them in a quick oven, and when they are of the proper colour, which should be rather yellow, take them out, put on each a spoonful of the above- mentioned syrup, and finish them by placing half an apricot kernel on the top. paste, eighth Apricots Glazed (Tourte of).*—hay down a puft'paste, and having moistened the edge, uut a band round it, rather higher ana thicker than that of the gateaux (see 6r«<enKa.’Parisienneof Apri- cots) ; take care to make this band ,ioin neatly, the best manner of doing which, is to cut the two ends bias, and then place them on each other, moisten, and press them together. Strew a spoonful of fine sugar over the bottom of the tourte, and place on that twenty-four quarters of apricots each rolled in sugar; take care that none of the sugar falls on the band, as it would spoil the appear- ance of it, dorez the outside of it, and put it in a quick oven. In ten minutes see if the band rises equally, and if it be compressed in any part, (which will sometimes occur either from the heat of the oven or inattention in mak- ing the paste), detach it with the point of a knife, and then replace it in the oven as quickly as possible; when the tourte is 4u'te done, sift sugar over andglazeit. Then take eight fine plump apricots, and boil them in a syrup made with a quarter of a pound of sugar and a glass of water; when sufficiently done, drain, takeoff' the skin, and divide the apricots; and having taken out the stone, arrange them on the tourte like a crown, with a kernel on each; and just before serving mask it with the syrup. A PRicoT Marmalade Pralini. Tourte of.*—Prepare the crust for the bottom of your tourte as above directed: then roll out another layer of pulf-paste very thin, and cut it out according to your fancy. Pour a pot of apricot marmalade on the under crust, and spread it equally over it, leaving an inch ail round, which must be slightly wetted ; put the outer crust on the marmalade, press it down carefully, dorez the paste which covers the preserve, and cover it with two ounces of filberts cut extremely small, and mixed with two ounces of fine sugar and a very small quantity of white of egg. Then place your band round the lower crust as above described, dorez that also, and bake it in a quick oven. If the filberts colour too quickly, lay a double paper over them. AVhen the tourte is done glaze it as usual. Another way.*—Make your under crust as usual, and spread the marma- lade over it; roll out the puff'paste very thin, sprinkle it with flour, and cut it in slips a quarter of an inch wide ; lay some of these slips at equal distances across your marmalade, and others across them so as to form a net-work over the preserve. You may also lay the strips