ONI ( 358 ) ONI with their peels on every morning, in fresh water, for nine days, then peel them; make a brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg, boil it, and pour it on the onions, let tItem stand for four-and-twenty hours; then boil vinegar, with pepper, horse-radish, ginger, and mustard-seed, and put it boiling hot to the onions, and let them stand for three days, then boil it again, and let them stand for another three days; after this, boil them all up together, and stop them close down; they will be fit for use as soon as they are cold. Onions, Potage of.*—Set some good milk on the fire, season it with salt and pepper; whilst it is boiling, melt some butter in a stewpan, add to this some sliced onions, stir them up, and when they are lightly browned, put them to the boiling milk, and simmer altogether for half an hour. Put the bread into a basin, pour a sufficient quantity of Uie soup over to soak it, and v/hen it has im- bibed as much as you wish, put it into a soup tureen, fill it with your soup, lay the onions on the bread, and serve. Onions, Purie of {Brown).*—Take from thirty to forty onions, according to their size; peel and cut them down in half, taking oft'the tops and stalks, and then slice them; put six ounces of butter into a saucepan, with the onions, which fry lightly till of a nice colour; then add two ladiesful of espagnolr, one of stock, and reduce your puree; when suflici- ently thick, rub it tliiougli acoarse sieve. Great care should be taken not to let the puree boil. Onions, Puree of {fVhite).*—Prepare the onions in the same manner as for the brown puree, except that they must not be allowed to take colour; when done, add to them some veloute, or cream, re- duce this over a large tire, stirring con- stantly with a wooden spoon ; when the pxiree is sufficiently thick, rub it through a sieve. Onions, RagoUtof.*—Blanch and stew your onions in equal quantities of con- somme, and champaign ; add a spoonful of olive oil, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let these all simmer toge- ther till the onions are suHiciently done. Onions, RugotU of.—Peel a pint of small onions, and take four largo ones and cut them very small; then melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stew- pan ; when it has done hissing, put in the onions, and fry them a light brown ; then shake in a little flour, and shake them round till they are thick; add a little salt, a little beaten pepper, a quar- ter of a pint of good gravy, and a tea- spoonful of mustard, stir ail well toge- ther ; when well flavoured, and of a good thickness, pour it into a dish, and garnish with fried bread crumbs. Onion Salad, with Beet Root. — HoiX some large onions till well done; then put them on a dish to cool; liave some beet root well baked, cut it into thin slices, and cut the onions into slices also; then lay a slice of onion between two of beet, arranging them in whatever form you think proper on the dish ; serve over them an Italienne sauce, the same as for Ralienne salad. Onion Sauce.—Ve.e\ some onions, boil them in milk and water, put a turnip with them into the pot (it draws out the strength) ; change the water twice ; pulp them through a cullender, or chop them ; then put them into a saucepan with some cream, a piece of butter, a little flour, some pepper and salt: they must be served very smooth. Onion Sauce.—The onions must be peeled, and then boiled till they are ten- der ; then squeeze the water from them ; chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, with a little good milk instead of water ; give it one boil, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions draws out their strength. Onion Sauce {Broum).—Peel and slice the onions (some put in an equal quan- tity of cucumber or celery) into a quart stew'pan, with an ounce of butter; set it over a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is very lightly browned ; then gra- dually stir in half an ounce of flour ; add a little broth, and a little pepper and salt, boil up for a few minutes; add a table-spoonful of claret, or port wine, and some mushroom ketchup (you may add, if you think proper, a little lemon- juice or vinegar), and rub it through a tammy, or fine sieve. Onion Soup.—Put into the water in which a leg or neck of mutton has been boiled, some carrots, turnips, and a shank bone, and let it simmer for a couple of hours. Strain it on half a dozen onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown ; simmer the whole for three hour', skim it carefully, and serve. Put in a little roll, or fried bread. Onions Steioed.—Peel half a dozen onions, fry them gently of a nice brown, taking care not to blacken them; then put them into a small stewpan, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover them, and let them gently stew for two hours. Lightlv flour them at first. Onions Sfi//7crf.*—Peel four.and twenty large onions, very carefully, blanch, cool, anu then having drained them, scoop out