C II E ( 133 ) CHE over the whole, and put it into the bain- marie for an hnur. Before it is turned from the mould let it drain well; when ready for table, the dish and chartreuse may be ornamented in various ways, ac- cording to fancy. CHEESE.—To select good cheese is a department of marketing that reqiiire.s great judgment; a nice palate, and a sensitive nose are the two chief requisites; but the eye is a necessary organ, not only for detecting what escapes the en- quiry of these senses, as mites, decay, &c., but with good judges it will usually tell a prime cheese from an indifferent one, by the texture and colour alone. In choosing this necessary article, at- tention must be paid to the appearance of the rind. Ciieshire cheese, from a good dairy, is in its prime at two years, provided it has been well kept. A damp storehouse produces premature decay, and fills it with mites. Cheese, even of the finest quality, is apt to deceive those unacquainted with the article, both in taste and smell, when judging by the taster, or when first cut, as it will frequently possess a strong and Knpleasant flavour, although in a few days after being cut, exposure to the air will render it pure and agreeable to the smell and taste. It is hence the custom with experienced caterers to lay in a stock of Che.shire cheese, and to keep it in a dry cellar in saw-dust, in a box, by which,in two or three months,it improves, and is fit to cut. It is then well to divide it into two parts, or to take out a fourth, according to its size; spread butter on the part to be reserved, and keep it in a dry place ; that for use should be ex- posed in the larder on the cheese shelf, three or four days, nvhen it will be ready for the table. A certain late worthy Al- derman and Vintner, famed for his know- ledge of the larder, for many years was accustomed to put Cheshire cheeses in a sack, cover 'them with a basket, and bury them under his summer stock of coals, and in the winter, as they reduced, he used to say, “ Now is the time for my old Che.'hire.’' No cheese of equal fla- vour, perhaps, was eaten in the city of London. We speak of Cheshire, jiar excellence., as the most piquant and fine-flavoured of English cheese, although the modern gourmands are pleased to designate the Stilton cheese the British Parmesan. Good Stilton, however,such as may be purchasedatCulliim’s in OldBond-street, IS a treat for the most refined palate, and IS generally preferred at the tables of the great, even by those Ainphytrions, whose authority few will be liardy enough to dispute. Stilton cheese, made in May or June, is usually served at table at Christmas. If made at a capital dairy, however, it is in better order at ten, or even twelve months, or, if well managed, even at a later period. It is customary with certain tavern- keepers to produce an artificial ripeness on Stilton, to please those pseudo con- noisseurs, their vain customers, who boast loudly of their superior taste in these matters, when in the chair, and who verify the couplet of the inimitable poet— “ Doubtless the pleasure is as great In being cheated as to cheat.” Mine host, manages the matter thus :— A Stilton, with a rugged and picturesque coat, is tapped, and in the aperture is inserted a small piece of mite-touched old Cheshire, and then stopped with a wet cloth. In three weeks or a month it is ripe enough, and relished by the con- vives with its concomitant, a glass of port, as a bonne bouche fit for the gods! Certain epicures are _ accustomed to make a conical excavation on the top of a Stilton, and to pour therein from two to four glasses, or even more, of port, claret, or Madeira wine, which being absorbed for three weeks or a month, they maintain, improves its flavour. There is no disputing with a variety of tastes. On some occasions an accidental flavour may be thus attained, which may be palatable; but, on the authority of one of the best judges of these matters, we venture to say, that many a prime Stilton has been spoiled by such whimsical practices; and we are assured, as well by the dairyman, cheesemonger, and is that the first cooks, that the finest Stilton, which ripens without any artificial aid. North 'Wiltshire cheese has long ac- quired deserved celebrity, being rich, and of fine flavour ; the.=e are fit for the table at nine months, hut, if carefully kept, they are in perfection at twelve months. Double Gloucester, is also a cheese in great repute, and if made at a good dairy is in prime order from nine to twelve months. This makes an excellent tVelch rabbit, and is capital for a stew, if care- fully dressed in a cheese-toaster. Single Gloucester, which, when sne- cesslully made, is of a line delicate fla- vour, is generally used at the taverns for 9. Welch rabbit. It is fit for the table in five or six months. Derby cheese, however, tvhen front N