CAP 115 ) CAP wash it, and fill the inside with oysters. Cut 4 neck of mutton in pieces ; boil it, and skim it well; put in the capon, and when it boils, skim it again j take care that you have not more broth than will just cover the meat; then put in about a pint of white wine, whole pepper, cloves, and mace. About a quarter ol aa hour before it is finished, put in three anchovies, carefully washed and boned ; you may also, if you think proper, add parsley and sweet herbs. When it is sufficiently done, put some sippets into a dish, take the oysters out of the capon, put them into the broth, and pour it over the sippets, then place the capon in the middle, and squeeze either an orange or lemon over before you serve. Capon, iochnose.—If it is young, his spurs are short and his legs smooth; if_a true capon, a fat vein on the side of his breast, the comb pale, and a thick belly and rump ; if fresh, he will have a close hard vent; if stale, a loose open vent. Capon, with Crmj-fish.—Stew a capon « la braise ; then make a ragoClt of mtish- rooms, truffles, and the tails of cray-fish; tossitup with a little melted lard,moisten with a good deal of veal gravy, and thicken it with a cullis of cray-fish; then take up your capon, let it drain, then put it in a dish, and pour your ragofit over it and serve. You must be careful not to let your ra- goflt boil after you have put in your cray-fish cullis, for, if it should, it will turn; therefore only keep it over hot embers. Capon dressed the French way.—Take a quart of white wine, season the capon with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a fewshalots; and then put the capon in an earthen p.w ; you must take care it has not room to shake; it must be co- vered close, and done over a slow char- coal fire. Capon, to fricassee.—Take a capon either roast or boiled, cut it up, and take the pinions from the wings and the brawn froni the joints. Being thus prepared, put it into a pan, take the yolks of five eggs, some minced thyme, and sliced nutmeg, mix them well together, and put them into the pan with clarified but- ter, half hot, and fry them till they are brown, then turn them out; then put the yolks of three eggs, an onion cut in quarters, anchovies, and a little grated nutmeg, into some white wine, strong broth, or gravy; then pour out what liquor is in your pan, and put to it a ladleful of butter; put this layer into your pan, and keep it continually shak- ing over a slow fire, till it thickens (if it is too thick it may be thinned with white wine) 5 then put your fowl into a dish, pour in your sauce. Garnish it with slices of lemon, and hard yolks of eggs chopped small, and serve. Capon, au gros sel.*—After having drawn and trussed a capon, rub it over with lemon, and cover it with slices of bacon, and put it into a stewpan with some onions, carrots, the neck, the giz- zard, and some pieces of veal; mix the whole together v/ith some bouillon, and let it stew over a gentle fire, from aliout an hour and a half to two hours. Serve it with rock salt sprinkled over it, and a good gravy. Capon, It is usually an old capon that is dressed in this way. Having drawn and trussed it, cover it with rashers of bacon to preserve its whiteness; tie it up and put it into a saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of water. When done, serve with a little of its broth, and some rock salt sprinkled over it. A capon is esteemed a great delicacy; they are best about seven or eight months old, and are almost always served roasted ; should they not be very tender, they may be dresse'd en dauhe, like a turkey. Capon, the Italian fashion.—Boil some rice in mutton broth till it is very thick, adding salt and sugar; then boil some Bologna sausages very tender, mince them very small, add somegrateu cheese, sugar, and cinnamon, mix the whole to- gether ; then your capon being boiled or roasted, cut it up, and lay it on a dish with some rice, strew over it some of the sausage, cinnamon, grated cheese, and sugar, and lay on the yolks of raw eggs ; thus make two or three layers, lay some eggs, butter, or marrow on the top of all, and set it over a chafing-dish of coals, or in a warm oven. Capon, larded v'ith Lemon.—Let your capon be first scalded, then take a little dust of oatmeal to make it look white ; then take a pint of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three dates, cut long- ways, some currants parboiled, a little whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a nutmeg, thiaken it with almonds, season with sugar, verjuice, and a little butter; then lard the capon with thick lardons of bacon and preserved lemon, boil it; when done, place it in a deep dish, and pour the stock oyer it. Garnish with preserved barberries and sippets. Capon yiih Oysters.—Dress a capon a la braise, then simmer some mush- rooms and truffles in some veal gravy over a stove, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham; then give some oysters two or three turns in their own liquor over the fire to blanch them, but do not