(C3) B L A B L A lay them on three sheets of paper to pre- vent their burning, and bake them in a brisk oven. Biscuits, Toad-in-a-Hole. — Beat a pound of sweet, and an ounce and a lialf of bitter almonds to a fine smoot.li paste, moisten with water, and mix tlie paste, which should not be too tliin, with a pound and a quarter of Lisbon sugar. Lay a slieet of writing-paper on your baking-plate, and wafer-paper on that; lay the biscuits about the size of a half- crown piece; put_ a dried cherry in the middle ofeacli; sift sugar over and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, cut the wafer-paper round, but do not take it away. Biscuits, Yarmouth.—Pick and wash half a pound of currants, dry them well, rub a little flour with them, and put them with half a pound of powder-sugar, three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half a pound of fresh batter; mix them into a paste with three eggs, roll it out to the thickne.ss of the eighth of an inch, cut them into what shapes you please. Bake them of a light colour in a hot oven. Black Cock—ls dressed in the same way as partridge; a small one will take thirty, a full grown one forty or fifty mi- nutes to roast. Serve with currant-jelly and fried bread-crumbs. Gravy and bread sauce. Black Puddings.—Boil a peck of grits for half an hour in water, then drain and put them into a tub or pan; the hog lieing killed, save two q^uarts of the blood, and stir it till quite cold, when the grits may be mixed with it, still stirring; sea- son it with a large spoonful of salt, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, a quarter of an ounce of each, pounded and dried; flavour it with winter savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, and penny-royal, all chopped small. The next day, cut the leaf of the hog into dice, cleanse the entrails well, tie them at one end, and begin to fill them, putting in plenty of fat with the other ingredients, fill them about three parts full, tie the other end of the skins, prick and boil them gently for an hour ; then take them out, and lay them on clean straw. Bi.ack Pudding.—Soak a quart of whole grits for twelve hours in as much boiling hot milk as will swell them, and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop some pennyroyal, savory, and thyme, salt, pepper, and allspice pounded; mix them with a quart of blood, half fill the skins with it, and add as much of the leflf as will make it pretty rich ; boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, lest they burst. When sufficiently done, lay them in clean cloths till cold. AVhen to be used, scald them a few mi- nutes and broil them. Black Pudding, Scotch way.—Chop off the head of a goose, save the blood ; stir it till cold, then mix it as above di- rected with grits, spice, sweet herbs, salt, and beef suet, chopped; take the skin from the neck, pull put the wind- pipe and fat, fill your skins, tie them at both ends. Blackberrv JVine.— Viit full ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a cock in it, pour on as much bailing water as will cover them, and as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the hand till all the berries are broken; cover them, and in about three or four days, when the berries rise to the top, draw oil the clear part into another ves- sel ; add to every ten quarts of the liquor one pound of sugar, stir it well in, and let it stand a week or ten days to work. Draw it oil'through a jelly-bag. Sleep four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet wine for twelve hours, then boil it slowly till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the blackberry juice, boil them together, and then put all together ; let it stand a few days, and bottle. Blanc.—A mixture of butter, salt, water, and a slice ot lemon; also as fol- lows :—Cut a pound of beef suet, and the same of fat bacon into dice, half a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, one or two onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf and spice. Blanc.*—Take half a pound of the beef fat, half a pound of bacon, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two carrots, two onions cut in half, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few bay leaves, the juice of a lemon, some salt, whole pepper, and two glasses of stock, and boil tne whole for some time, it will be then fit for use. Blanc.*—Put one pound of grated bacon, one pound of fat, halfa pound of butter, two lemons cut in slices, and the white taken out, two bay leave.s, two cloves, four carrots cut into dice, four onions, and a very small quantity of wa- ter, into a saucepan, and boil the whole till it is reduced. You must take care to keep stirring to prevent your Uanc from catching; when all the moisture is suck- ed up and the lat is melted, moisten it with water; add some clarified salt, let it boil and skim it; it is then ready for use. Blancmange.—To one ounce of picked isinglass, put a pint of water. l)oil it till the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cin- namon ; put to it three quarters of a pint of cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six bitter ones blanched and beaten, a