S H R 452 S K A sweetened to the taste; for the method of preparing which, see tlie different articles it is usually composed of. When the liciuid is sufficiently limpid and cold, pour it into a silver,or tin sorbeliere,a.na ice it as usual. (See Ice). SHRIMPS.— Shrimps are chosen by the same rules as prawns. Shuimps to Butter.—(See the recipe to Butter Prawns). SnaiMPs in a Gratin. — Take one or two quarts of shrimps, according to the size you wish your dish, pick, and toss them in good bechamelle, with a lit- tle lobster spawn pounded and mixed in it, as directed for lobster sauce; make the whole very hot, and add the squeeze of a lemon, then lay it on a dish, and strew crumbs of bread over it, the same as for other gratins ; colour it with the salamander before it is served to table. Shrimps {to Grill).—Stew the shrimps in a little water, with salt, pepper, and shred parsley; butter some scallop shells, put in some grated bread, on which lay the shrimps, cover them with bread, add a little more butter; set them on a grid- iron for a short time, brown them with a salamander and serve. Shrimp Pie.—Take a quart of nicely picked shrimps, and season them with two or three anchovies minced very fine, and mixed with some salt, mace, and a clove or two; (should the shrimps be very salt, that article must be omitted in the seasoning). Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, then lay in the shrimps, and add a glass of sharp white wine. The paste for this pie should be light and thin. It does not take long baking. Shrimps Potted.—Let them be nicely boiled, then nick them out of the shells, and season them vvell with pepper, salt, a little pounded cloves, and a little mace: put them closely together into a pot, and set them for about ten minutes in a slack oven, and when cold, pour over clarified butter. ShRiMP_ Sawcfi.— Put half a pint of picked shrimps into a stew pan, witli some butter sauce, and a very little essence of anchovy; make it very hot, add a little lemon-juice, and serve it to table. Shrimp Sauce. — Nicely pick your shrimps, and put them to butter melted thick and smooth ; give them one boil, and add some lemon-juice. Shrimp Sauce.—Mix a pood piece of butter with some flour, boil fit up in a little rich gravy; put in the shrimps, nicely picked; give the whole one boil. SHRUB.* —Put a qu.art of Seville orange-juice to a gallon of rum, with three pounds of lump sugar, and a hand- ful of the peel pared extremely thin ; let it stand in the cask for three months,' then filter it through a cloth, and bot- tle it. Shrub.*—Take aquartoforange-juice, strain it, put to it two pounds of lump sugar, four quarts and one pint of rum ; put half the peels of the oranges into the rum, and let it stand one night, then mix the rum with the orange-juice and sugar, put it into a vessel which has a spigot, shake it four or five times daily till the sugar be all dissolved ; when it is clear, which may be in about a fortnight, bottle it off' for use. If the oranges are very ripe, a pound and half of sugar is suf- ficient. SIBERIAN Crabs, to Preserve.*-- Take theirweight in sugar, make a syrup with apple-jelly ; when well boiled, prick the crabs and put them into it; let them boil a few minuteS; then take them out, put them on a sieve to drain; when nearly cold, put them again into the syrup, boil it a few minutes more, and drain them as before ; do this a third time, observing the same rules as at first; then put them into glasses or jars, and pour the jelly over them, boiling. SIPPET Pudding.—Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow, or beef-suet, a layer of cur.-ants, and then a layer of bread again, &c.. and so continue until the dish is filled ; mix four eggs, well beaten, with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over ; set it in the oven, it will take half an hour baking. SKATE.—When good, they are very white and thick ; if dressed too fresh, they are hard and unpleasant to the taste; they should, therefore, be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. Skate Boiled.—Put it into a fish-kettJe with cold spring water and plenty of salt; as soon as it boils, set it aside to simmer gently till done, and serve it on a fish-plate with anchovy-sauce in a boat. Skate Fried.—The skate_ must be nicely crimped, then tossed in an egg, beaten up with pepper, and salt, then in crumbs of bread, laying them on paper ns you do them ; have ready a stew^n nearly full of lard ; when very hot, put in two or three pieces at a time to fry quickly, and when thoroughly done, put tliem on paper to drain from the ^t; serve them to table on a dish garnished with fried parsley, and serve shrimp- sauce in a boat. SMELTS.—The smelt is considered