I ) BEE ( BEE together wliilst in tlie stewpan; tlien serve it on a disli in form of a rock, and mash the whole with a reduced Spanish sauce. Beef {Fillet of), roasted.—This fillet lies only in the inside of the sirloin next to the chine, and is the tenderest part of the ox; spit this on a small spit, but do not run it through the best part of the meat: roast it gently, and baste it with butter; catch gravy in a dish while the beef is roasting ; in the mean time make a sauce for it with sweet herbs and pars- ley shred fine, the yolks of four eggs, an onion, and some orange, peel chopped small; put these into sweet butter, gravy, a spoonful or two of strong broth and vinegar, stew themall together. Put yourbeef into this sauce, and serve it hot. Beef {Fillet of) roasted and larded.* —Trim your fillet; lard it fine, and let it soak for twelve hours in a marinade made of good oil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, and an onion cut in elices. After it has snaked, take it out, and put it on the spit before a quick fire. It must not be too much done, but should be taken off the spit with the gravy in it; serve it with a sauce made of its own gravy, a little vinegar, shalote, salt, and pepper, put into a sauce-boat. Beef {Fillet of), roasted and larded.— Take off' the superfluous fat, and tie the fillet ready for cooking; lard it at each extremity, leaving the middle without lard ; let it soak some days in oil, sea- soned with onions, parsley, lemon-juice, and pepper. Truss it in the form of an S, or a round, and roast it till it attains a good colour. Dish it with any sauce you may think best. Beef, forced Meat, in form of a Pud- ding.—Mince a piece of tender beef, with as much suet, a bit of ham, and small bits of bacon, two or three eggs, parsley, sha- lots, thyme, laurel, fine spices, and a little salt; add a glass of brandy; mix all together, and roll it into the form of a large pudding, placing round it thin slices of bacon ; over the bacon put white and upon the paper a paste made of flour and water; bake it about two oven, and when done take oft the paste and_ bacon. If you serve it hot, add a relishing sauce ; if cold, leave the paste till you are ready to serve, and send it up in a second course. Beef Fricandeau.—Take a nice hit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoneil with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and all- spice. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsjey, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove ofgarlick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is bc- come tender, cover it close; skim the •sauce well, and strain it. Sec it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. Beef Fried. — Cut your beef into steaks, beat it with the back of a sbredcling knife; take out all the fat, and then put them into a frying-pan, with a sufficient quantity of butter to moisten the pan ; set it over a moderate fire, turn your beef often, and as the gravy runs from it, keep pouring it out, then fry the fat by itself, and lay it on the lean, then put a little anchovy, onion, nutmeg, pepper and claret, in the gravy, and stew it a little. Beef Gobbets.*—Take about six pounds of any piece of beef, except the leg or shin, cut it into pieces about the size of a hen’s egg, put them into a stew-pan, and just cover them with water, put them over the fire, and when the scum rises, skim it clear off, then put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole pepper, tied in a muslin, six heads of celery, cut an inch jong and well washed, a carrot or two cut in slices, two turnips cut in dice, a bun- dle of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, and a crust of bread ; stew it till the meat is tender, and then take out the spice, herbs, and bread ; have some crusts of French roll crisped before the fire, put them in a dish, and put the meat, &c. over them. You put in two ounces of Scotch barley or rice when you put in the herbs. Beef Gobbets, stewed in the French fashion.—Tdke. any piece of beef, ex- cepting the leg, cut it in bits as big as pullets eggs, both of fat and lean ; slew it in a stewpan with water, skim it clean, and when it has boiled an hour, put in salt, whole pepper, cloves, mace, car- rots, turnips, parsni ps, and wh ole.onions; cover it close, and let it stew till it is tender, putting in (half an hour before it is finished,) parsley, thyme, sweet mar- joram, spinach, sorrel, and winter sa- vory; add some claret, then dish it on sippets, and serve it hot. Garnish with barberries, grapes, or gooseberries. Beef Gravy.—Cut a piece of the chuck or neck into small pieces, strew some flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into the saucepan, with as much water as will cover it, .an onion, a little allspice, a little pepper, and some salt. Cover it close, and when it boils, skim it, then throw in a hard crust of bread, or some raspings, and stew it till the gravy_ia_ rich and good ; strain it off, and pour it into the sauce-boat. Beef Gristles, of different fashions.— Cut gristles of beef to what size you please ; scald them in boiling water fora F