200 cue cue lions, shred small, salt, pepper, morels, and good broth ; let them stew for some time over a gentle lire. When done, add the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, and a small piece of butter. To the sauce may be added a little verjuice, if you think proper. CucuMBEas d la Creme*—Pare and cut your cucumbers in small round or oval pieces, keeping them all as near of a size as you well can ; throw them into boiling water with a little salt in it; when they are soft, take them from the hot. and put them into cold water, and then drain them in a cloth; make a cream sauce, rather thick, into which put the cucumbers, and serve them. CucuntBERS tt la Creme.—Take four straight rough-coated cucumbers, taste each that it is not bitter; cut them in half, then in quarters, and with a sharp knife cut out the seeds, and pare oft' the skin, tossing them in water as you do them t have ready some good clarified butter, into which (when well drained from the water) put in your cu- cumbers ; let them try (turning them at times) till of a fine light colour, then lay them on a sieve to drain them from the butter; when free from fat, lay them .inastewpan to stew gently, with con- tomme enough to cover them, a very little sugar and salt, and a round paper over the whole ; when stewed nearly dry, lay them again on a sieve, then place them neatly on the dish, and pour over them some good cream sauce, and thicken with the yolk of one egg with a little cream, and serve very hot. Cucumbers, Dried.—Take some pre- served cucumbers, wash all the syrup from them, put them on sieves to drain, then into a stove, one day is enough for them to dry ; when dry, take then?, out and paper a box, and put them in, and lay a paper between every layer of cucumbers. Cucumbers, Essence of.—Take the parings from your cucumbers, and make a puree of ttiem with a little butter, which must be drained oft' as S'>on as melted, and the purie dilule<l with the sauce tournee, in which the cucumbers have been dressed, as for blanquette, (they being put to drain). When the puree is very thick, mix with it four spoonsful of veloute, \\\t\\ a little sugar, and then strain it. Toss up the scollops in it, and add a little thick cream, if not sufliciently white. Season it well, and serve it quite hot. CucU.MBERS, Farcies.* — Pare three good-sized cucumber.*, take out the seeds with a marrow-spoon, and fill up the mid- dle with farce cuite; put into astewpan some slices of bacon and veal, carrots, onions, a little thyme, and a bay-leaf, lay in the cucumbers,cover them with bacon, moisten them with stock, and let tlierh simmer for half an hour, then, if they are tender, lake them from the fire, dram, and dish them. Serve with a reduced espag7iole. CucuMBERsatr Blanc, Garniture of.*— Pare and cut your cucumbers into square pieces, and then trim them into the form of oyster-shells; blanch them with a little salt. When done, drain and then toss them up in a little butter ; add some sauce tournie, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs. Cucu.mbers auBrun, Garnitureof.*— Prepare the cucumbers as for blanc, then put the slices in a pan with water, salt, pepper, vinegar, and sliced onions, soak them in this for some hours, then drain and press them in a cloth; put them into a saucepan with butler, stock, and a bunch of sweet herbs; when done, put a little gravy to them and serve. They may also be fried in grated bacon, in which case they should be moistened with oil and vinegar. Cucujibers au Gras.*—Pare and take the seeds from your cucumbers, cut them into slices an inch thick, and throw them into cold water, then soak them in a glass of hot broth, and the same of vine- gar ; drain and dip them into batter, and fry them in lard. Glaze them with pow- der-sugar as you take them out of the pan. Cucumbers, Potage of*—Cut your cucumbers into small ova! pieces, blanch them for ten minutes, let them cool, and drain ; put some slices of bacon into a stewpan, then the cucumbers, cover them with bacon, and add carrots, onions, pepper, and two cloves ; let them stew thus for half an hour. Put some bread in the soup-dish, and pout- over it a suf- ficient quantity of stock or broth to soak it well, lay the cucumbers on it, pass tlie liquor through a sieve, take oft" the fat, and pour it on the potage. (iucuMBERS Lies. Potage of *—Pare and split two cucunioers into tour part.-s and having taken out the seeds, cut each quarter into round slices, as near of a size as possible ; put them into a stew- pan with a little salt to take out all the w.ater; then strain them through a cloth, and put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter; toss them up lightly, but not to colour them, then add a handful of .sorrel chopped fine, .and a pinch of cher- vil. Moisten it with some good stofk ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, ''hen ready for table, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and a little cream, and