c n I ( 15.3 ) C II 1 CiucKE'ssiFillelsof) with Endive.— Having picked and waalied a dozen heads of endive, blanch them ; wlien tiiey liave draineo on a sieve for a few minutes, rub them tlirough it with a wooden spoon; then let them drain again for an hour or two, and stir them well into a stewpan, \vith a little butter ; when it begins to fry, add rome con- somme, reduce it, put some cream sauce in and boil it till thick; then tnix in the yolks of two eggs; place this in the middle of the dish, and having prepared your fillets, arrange them on the endive <md serve with lechumelle sauce. Chickex (cutlets of) d VEpigramme. —Take the fillets of five chickens, pare tliein well, scrape the small bone of the pinion, and stick it into the point of the fillets, and season them with salt and pepper. Wash them with the yolks of two eggs and dip them in bread-crumbs, then in melted butter. Then in bread- crumbs a second time, so that they may be entirely covered. Do not broil till just as they are wanted. Put filets mignons in scollops, in a sauce d blan- gnelfe with mushrooms, and serve ; or dress the filets entire, and place them and the cutlets on a dish alternately, with allemunde quite thin. Chickens d I’ Ex'cellence. — Make a ragofit as folloivs :—slice a quarter of a pound of pickled pork, and let it stand over the fire in some water, till nearly done; then add to it some fat livers, truffles, shalots, and parsley chopped, whole pepper, and a glass of white wine, thicken with the yolks of two eggs; when cold, put some of this under the skins af two fat chickens, and the re- mainder into the body; give them a turn or two in the frying pan, in some butter and lemon-juice, then wrap in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the mean- time put some slices of bacon, ham, veal, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and a spoonful of oil into a stewpan close covered for half an hour; then add a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and braise them for an hour and a half: skim and strain it, and put some shalots, butter and flour to it,'and serve on the chickens. Chickens I Feet amt Forcemeat. Scald the skin from as many feet as you may require, lie them in a bundle and braise them till tender.andthen dry them in a cloth. Make a good forcemeatand fill the claws with it, dip them in egg and then in bread crumbs; egg them and dip,in bread crumbs a second time, press it well on, and fry them in lard. Lay them on fried parsley and serve. Chickens d la Folelte,—carrots and par.snips into any form you please, and boil them with a few small onions iii a little stock. In the meaniime cut mushrooms, truffles and ham into very small pieces, and stew them in some butter, with sweet herbs, two cloves, 'thyme and a bay-leaf; when these are coloured, add some veal gravy and a glass of white wine, and boil the whole slowly until sufficiently done, then skim and put it, with a littlecullis, and a few olives stoned, to the carrots ; pour this ragofit on two chickens,_ stiiired with their livers, &c. rolled in bacon and paperand roasted. Chickens Fricasseed.*—Prepare and cut up two chickens; put them in a stew- pan with some butter, parsley, scallions, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, mushrooms, and a slice of ham; let them stew till scarcely any sauce remains, then add a little flour, warm water, salt and pepper; stew it again and reduce the sauce. When nearly done put in the jmlks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream or milk ; thicken it over the fire, but do not let it boil ; a small quan- tity of lemon-juice or vinegar may be added. Place the breasts and bones of the chickens on a dish, lay the legs and wings over them, and then pour the sauce over the whole; garnish with the mushrooms. Take on the skins before you cut up the chickens if you wish the fricassee very white. Chickens d la Bourdois.* —Proceed as above, but when the chickens are dished up strew bread-crumbs over them, and on that put several pieces of butter about the size of a pea, and then brown it with the salamander, or in the. oven. Chickens (Fricassee of) a VAlle~ mande.* Parboil and cut up the chickens, and then, having put them into warm water for half an hour, stew them in some butter, with parsley, mo- rels, scallions, garlic, pepper, salt, a glass of stock, and half a glass of cham- pagne ; when nearly done add to this the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a few drops of water and some lemon- juice ; stir it well the same way until finished. Chickens Fricasseed JVhite. — Skin, cut up your chickens and lay them in warm water j then stew them till tender in water, with lemon-peel, white wine, an. anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, sweet herbs. Take out the chickens when done, strain the liquor, and put a very little of it to a quarter of a pint of cream, four ounces of butter and a little flour ; stir it over the fire till the butter is melted ; tlien put the chickens in again, add some grated