TIM ( 467 T O A the juice of half a lemon, and serve it to table very hot. Tench {to Souse).—Having drawn the tend), clear away the slime, and cut oft' the gills ; put the fish into a kettle with some water, vinegar, bay-leaves, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, pepper, and salt. When done, take oft the loose scales, and lay the tench in a dish carefully; strain the liquor, add a little clarified isinglass to it, boil it a little while, then strain it again, and pour it over the fish. It must not be touched till quite cold. Tench, Stewed with IVine.—Let the tench be well cleansed,and crimped, then set it in a stewpan with some good con- somme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay-leaf, and some pepper-corns ; let it stew gently between two tires till \yell done ; then take it out, lay it on a dish, then make the liquor tolerably thick, by stewing it with three spoonsful of sauce tournee ; if not perfectly smooth, squeeze it through a tammy, put in the juice, add a very little cayenne pepper, and pour this sauce over the fish ; garnish with veal forcemeat. Tench Stuffed.—Cut off the tails and fins of your tench, split them down the back, take out the large bone, and fill the spaces with a farce, composed of carp, smelts, or any other fish ; close the open- ing with flour, and fry them in butter, yv'lien about two tliirds done, put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good stock, sweet herbs, carp roes, pepper, and salt; finish dressing them over a gentle fire, let the sauce reduce, and serve them. Tehrine, de Nerac.*—Take four fine partridges, truss them with the logs in- wards, and partly diess them. Make a farce of some pieces, and livers of par- tridges, do\ible the quantity of bacon, pound these well, season them with spices and sweet heibs (in powder), salt, pepper, and the trimmings of truftles; have ready two pounds of truflles, pick- ed and washed. Split the partridges down the back, season and stiift’ them with the farce and truffles ; put a layer cdjarce at the bottom of the tureen, put the partridges on it, fill up the intersti- ces with the truffles and farce, cover the whole with rashers of bacon and two bay-leaves, put on the lid of the tureen, fasten it down with paste, and bake it for three hours. THOitNBACK. — Let them hang at least one day before being dressed ; they may be served either boiled or fried, in bread crumbs, being first dipped in eggs. TH KU^I-1ES.—These birdsare dress- ed the same as woodcocks. '1IMIJALE.*—Puta pound of flour on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which pour a little water, three or four spoonsful of oil, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and a pinch of salt; knead these ingredients thoroughly into the flour, until it be- comes a tolerably firm paste ; roll it out to nearly half an inch in thickness, line one large, or several small plain round mould.s, with this paste; let the moulds be well buttered, and the paste conic about halt an inch above the top of the mould; fill your fnnSafe with farce, or ragufit, you think proper, cover it with a layer of paste, pressing the edges to- gether ; bake it, and w'hen done, turn, the timbale on a dish, make a hole, pour in some rich sauce, or gravy, and serve. TOASTS, Butter.*—Spread but- ter over some slices of fried bread ; lay on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted butter, and serve. Toasts, Genoa.—LsxA a French roll with partly anchovies, and partly ham ; cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin slice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry them; drain, and serve with ravigote. Toasts, a la Grenade.*—Cwt some fat and lean bacon into dice, give them a few turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, shalots, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three eggs; stir it frequently, till it forms a kind of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, cut of an equal thickness, and fry them. Toasts, d Vltaliennc.* — Cut some slices of bread, about half an inch in thickness, fry them in sweet oil, let it be dry, and crisp ; lay them on a dish, and spread over them any light good farce you may think pn'per ; pour over them an appropriate sauce, and serve them. Toasts, d VItalienne.* — Pound the white meat of a fowl, with some Parme- san cheese, and dry currants, mix with these ingredients the yolks of eggs in due proportions; roll them into fingers with flour, until they cease to adhere to your hand, fry them in boiling lard, and serve with either salt or sugar. 'I’oAST, d la Minime.—Cut some slices of bread, half an inch thick, and divide them into slips, fry them in a little oil, and when of a nice colour, lay them on a dish, with fillets of anchovies; putshn- lots, parsley, garlic, a bay-leaf, thyme, (all shred miihII), whole pepper, and a little vinegar, into the oil, toss them up in it, and then strain it over the toast. Toasts, PounrCed.— Vewni togethfr a piece of pnH'paste, a cold roasted veal- kidney, some of the fat. a few bitter al- monds, orange-flowers, lemon-peel, pre- served citron, a pinch of salt, and a little