c o c kidiites, leaving a small space at the top, which fill up witli the aspic. When w.snted for table, dip the mould into warm water an instant, and tlien turn it out; through a reed, blow away whatever pieces of the jelly may remain about the dish, dry it, and serve with the sauce of a chicken lricass6e reduced to a jelly, and thickened with the yolks of four eggs ; strain it, and add a dozen cham- pignons, trimmed and done up in butter and lemon-juice. Small moulds may be used instead of this large one. Cock’s-combs Farced.—Make a force- meat as follows :—chop up some, beef mar- row, bacon, and the white parts of a fowl, and pound them in a mortar with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Then, having parboiled the cock’s-combs, open them at the largest end, and fill them with the forcemeat. Stew them gently for half an hour in rich gravy, to which add the yolk of an egg well beaten in gravy, some salt, and fresh or pickled mushrooms, or both, if you think proper, Cock’s-cojibs, to Fm'ce.—Parboil some cock’s-combs, then open them with the point of a small knife at the great end; take the white of a fowl, as much bacon and beef marrowj cut these small, and beat them fine m a marble mortar: season them with salt, pepper, andgrated nutmeg, and mix it with an egg ; fill the cock’s-combs, and sterv them in a little strong gravy gently for half an hour; then slice in some fresh mushrooms and a few pickled ones; then beat up the yolk of an egg in a little gravy, stirring it; season with salt. When they are done enough, dish them in little dishes or plates. Cock’s-combs (Fncassee o/).—-Put a slice of ham into a stewpan, with mush- rooms, sweet herbs, cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, and butter; when they have soaked together a short time, add a little flour and some broth, and then strain it. In the meantime, scald the cock’s-combs, and boil them in broth, with a few slices of lemon; put them into the above sauce, and thicken it with cream and yolks of eggs; flavour it with pepper, salt .and lemon-juice, and serve it with any sauce you please. Garnish your dish with force-meat balls, hard eggs, or small onions. Coce’s-combs Pickled. — Scald the cock’s-combs, take off the skins, and stew them for half an hour in white wine vinegar, with cloves,mace,allspice,whole pepper, bay-leaves and bay-salt; then put them in a jar, and when cold cover them with mutton-suet, and tie them tight over. When they are wanted take ( 174 ) COD them out of the pickle, and lay them :n i warm water for an hour. \ Cock’s-combs, to preserve.—Let tbein | be well cleaned, then put them into a pot j with some melted bacon, and boil them a little ; about half an hour after, add a i little bay-salt, some pepper, a little vine- . gar, a lemon sliced, and an onion stuck with cloves. When the bacon begins to I stick to the pot, take them up, put them | into the pan you would keep in, lay a | clean linen cloth over them, and pour ^ clarified melted butter, over them, to | keep them close from the air. I Cock’s-combs and Kidyiies au bUtne, (Ragmtt of).*— Having blanched the cocks’-comlis and kidnies, put them into a saucepan with a little consomme, sauce tournee, mushrooms, previously dressed veal sweetbreads, fowls’ livers, blanched and sliced, truffles also cut in slices, artichoke bottoms, and quenelles of fowl. Thicken the whole with yolks of eggs. Serve with a sippet and a little lemon or verjuice. Cock’s-combs au Veloute.* — Parboil your cock’s-combs in a blanc, and having drained them, put them into a stewpan with veloute or tournee; let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour, thicken the sauce, and finish with a little butter and lemon-juice. Cock’s-combs U7id Kidnies auVeloule.* —Boil some cock’s-combs and kidnies in i a blanc, and then drain them ; put some i veloute reduced with a little fowl-jelly into a stewpan, throw in the cock’s- combs and kidnies, simmer them for | about seven or eight minutes, and finish ! it with a sippet and lemon-juice, and i serve it. COD.—A cod-fish should be firm .and i white, the gills red, and the eye lively ; j a fine fish is very thick about the neck; i if the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. ' Those which come from the Dogger Bank are reckoned the best. Cod is in its prime during the months of October and November, if the weather be cold ; from the latter end of March to May, cod is also very fine. The length of time : it requires for boiling depends on the size of the fish, which varies from one pound to twenty; a small fish, about two or three pounds weight will be sulliciently boiled in a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes .after the water boils. Prepare a cod for dressing in the following man- ner;—empty and w.ish it thoroughly, scrape oil all the scales, cut open the belly, and wash and dry it well, rub a little salt inside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. The simple way of dress- ing it is as follows:—Tie up the head, and put it into a fish-kettle, with plenty