cue ( 201 ) cue our it over your bread, wliich should ecut in pieces similar to the cucumbers. Cucu.MBEUs d la Poulelte.—PAve and slice the cucunaber.s, and having soaked tlie slices for half an hour in vinegar and salt; dry them in anapkin, and put them into a panwith two ounces of butter ; fry them over a brisk fire, sprinkle flour over, pour a little broth on them, and let them stand till reduced without breaking; then add a small quantity of chopped parsley, a little salt, the same of sugar, and three eggs; stew all together a little while, and serve hot. Pepper may be added according to taste. Cucumbers (lo Preserve).* — Make choice of those which are small, and not too old, put them into jars,' and pour over them a brine (to make the brine, take two thirds of water, and one of vine- gar, to several pounds of salt, according lothe quantityof brine you wish to make, a pound to three pints; put it over the fire till the salt is melted, let it stand to settle, and before you use it, pour it off clear); when you wish to use them, take the rind off, and dress them in the same way as the fresh cucumber. Cucumbers, Preserved. — Split and take the seeds from the number of cu- cumbers you intend to use; lay them for three days in strong salt and water; then put them into cold water, with a little alum, and boil them till_ tender; drain, and let them lay in a thin syrup for two days, then boil the syrup again, pour it over the cucumbers, repeat tiiis opera- tion twice more ; then having boiled to souffle some clarified sugar, put them in it, simmer them for five minutes ; the ne.vt day boil both up again, when they may be put by for use. Cucumbers of).*—Let some cucumbers soak for two hours, in half a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a little salt; turn them often, by whicii means the water, which is so cold to the sto- mach, will be drawn out; after they have been thus soaked, squeeze and put them into a stewpan with some good stock, a bunch of herbs, and a bit of butter ; stew them, and, when done, add a little cullis; clear off the fat from the r.igoflt, and serve; or, when you have squeezed the cucumbers, put them into a stewpan with some butter, and, having turned them a few times over the fire, shake in a little flour, and moisten with stock; when it is sulliciently done, and the sauce consumed, add the yolks of two eggs beat up with some milk, and serve them for an eutremet, either under eggs, or without eggs. If you wish to make a soup of them, boil some cucumbers once up in water, and then dress them with stock and gravy, to give them a nice colour; when done, gdrnish the edge of your soup-dish with them, and take care of the water they were boiled in to add to the soup. Cucumbers, PagoiU of.* — Cut a number ol cucumbers, each in half, take out the seed, slice them very thin, ami soak them in vinegar, salt, pepper, and sliced onions. When they have laid in this a sufficient time, take them out and press them dry in a cloth ; put them into a saucepan with butter, yeloute, and stock, if your ragoCit is white, but wpag-nofe without butter, and nutmeg if brown; add a bunch of sweet herbs; when done, thicken it with yolks of eggs; put a little lemon-juice and serve. Cucumber Salad.*—Peel and cut a cucumber in slices, or peel without slicing it,and let itsteep for twenty-four hours in vinegar; then when you wish to serve, drain off’the vinegar, anti season the cucumber with pepper and salt. Cucumber Sauce.*—Cut four cucum- bers into pieces the size of half a crown and three quarters of an inch thick ; put them into a clean cloth, and rub them well to take out the water; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, to which put the cucumbers, and set them over a brisk fire, taking care to shake them frequentl y; when they are of a good colour, put to them three large spoonsful of veloute, and two of blond; let them remain a short time on the fire. Cucumbers, Stewed.—Slice some cu- cumbers thick, or cut them into halve.s and divide them into two lengths; strew over them some salt and pepper, and sliced onions ; add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly ; and before you serve them, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little flour, unless it wants richness. Cucumber Toast.*—Make aragoCitof cucumbers, well thickened; add to it the yolks of three eggs, dress them upon the crumb of bread, draw a knife dipped in a beat egg over the whole ; cover with grated bread, and then fry them. Cucumber J’inegur.—Pare and cut in slices fifteen large cucumbers; put them into a stone Jar, with three pints of vine- gar, four large onions cut in slices, three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoona- fnl of salt, three tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pep- per. After leaving it to stand four days, give the whole a boil ; when cold, strain and filter the liquor through paper, and put it into small bottles, and use it for salad, or with cold meat. CULLIS.—Lay over the bottom of a 4