c n I ( ) C II I done. Take ofi all wrapper?, and serve vvitli nonxjureil sauce. Chickens a la Marmottc.—Boil some carrots and par.snips, cut into shapes, with some small onions, in a little brotli; in the mean time cut some mushrooms and pickled cucumbers into dice, and stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, pars- ley, uiloves, stock, salt and pepper ; when they have boiled slowly for a little time, add a spoonful of cullis, and the carrots, &c.; boil them up together, and serve over roasted chickens. Chickens Marines.*—Cut your chick- ens, and soak them in stock, vinegar, or verjuice, salt and pepper: place them on hot ashes for half an iiour. Beat three whites of eggs to a strong froth, and then dip in each piece of chicken ; flour it, and fry them of a nice colour. Chickens Muroquin.* — Choose two fine lilt chickens, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil; let them cool, and dry them thoroughly. Make a stufling with the livers, truflies, streaked bacon, butter, salt, pepper, herbs, &c. all chopped small, unite them with the yolks of two eggs; fill the chickens with this, and put some under the thighs and wings; place slices of hacon over it, so that the stufling may remain in its proper place. Put two large slices of bacon over that, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them. You may serve them, either with cray-fish, butter, or blond. Chickens ew Matelote.*—Blanch about a dozen small white onions, and then throw them into cold water to take off the skin. Cut two carrots and a parsnip into pieces, three inches long, pare them 10 an equal size; prepare the fol- lowing ;—a small piece cf butter, two pinches of flour, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and brown them ; put the carrots, par.snip, and onions into it, with the addition of parsley, scallions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, half a clove of garlick, pepper, and salt; boil these gently, for half an hour. Take one large, or two small chickens, set them on the fire a minute or two, and then cut each in four; put them into the above rngofit and boil for an hour. When very little fauce remains, take oil" the fat, and add a chopped anchovy, and a few capers. Second waq.*—Cut a couple of chick- ens into quarters, and put them into a stewpan lined with bacon and small onions; after they have been in a short time, add to them an eel cut in pieces, a small fish, and a dozen cray-fish, with salt, pepper, bay-leaves, and morels; moisten the whole with equal quantities of stock and white wine; cover the stew- pan, and let it stand over a moderate fire for three hours. Place all the pieces on a dish, and gar- nish it with cray-fish and fried crusts, put .alternately, and pour the sauce over it. Chickens d la St. Menehoult.*—Put two chickens into a stewpan with some butter, a glass of white wine, -sal t, pepper, parsley, scallion, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; stew it gently, and let the sauce adhere to the chickens; then soak them in eggs beaten, cover them with bread-crumbs, dip them into butter, bread-crumbs again, and broil them. Chicken Milk.*—Boil half a pint of water; beat up the yolks of two egus with an ounce of powder-sugar, a little orange-flower water, and salt; mix these well, until the egg liegins to whiten, then add the boiling water, stirring it very quick, and drink it as hot as possible. Chickens 2n a —Cuta chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter; add to it some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, sprinkle flour over, and shake them; moisten it with stock or water, and white wine; when it has boiled once, take it from the fire and put in the yolks of one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or lemon-juicc. Chickens a la Napolitaine.*—Take a cold fricassee of chickens, which must be pretty thick, and mix it with some macaroHi, boiled in a little stock, and dr.ained ; put to it a little butter, a ladle- ful of sauce tournee, some grated Parme- san and Gruyere cheeses, and coarse pepper; stir it well, and then place a thick layer in a stewpan, put the pieces of chicken on it, cover them with the sauce and macaroni, strew b> cad-crumbs very thickly over the whole, wash it with melted butter, bread it again, and bake it. Chickens aux Xoitilles.—Are dressed in the same way as d I'Ivoirc, and served with nouilles. Chickens pelits (Eufs composees. —Braise a couple of chickens cut into quarters, and when they are done, skim and strain the sauce, and thicken it with the yolks of three egns. In the nie.m- time, soak bread-crumbs in cullis. and when quite thick, put them in a mort.nr with shalot. beet-marrow, and the yolks of four or five hard eggs, pepper and .salt; mix in the yolks ol two raw eggs well, and make these ingredients into little balls, roll them in flour, and give them a boil in some stock. Serve them with the sauce ns .above, upon the chickens. Chickens \cith O/iro/if.* —Put some