CUE ( 141 ) c ri E 1> f 3 / i * I I ( tlie eggs with it, one by one, to make it almost as liquid as a thick batter; and mix some good cream cheese with it; bake it in good puff-paste, coloured with yolks of eggs. Serve it up either hot or cold. Cheesecakes, Curd.—Beat half a pint of good curds with four eggs, three spoonsful of riel) cream, half a nutmeg grated, and a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or orange-water; put to them a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of cur- rants well washed and dried before the fire. Mix all well together, put a good crust into patty-pans, and bake them gently. Cheesecakes, Curd.—Beat half a pint of good curd with four eggs, four spoons- ful of cream, some nutmeg, a little brandy, lialf a pound of currants ; sugar to the taste. Cheesecakes de St. Denis. — Mix a spoonful of flour with a fresh cream cheese well-drained, commonly called curds, a little salt, a proper quantity of eggs, and finish the same as for Court Cheese- cakes, Cheesecakes, Frae.—Warm a pint of cream, add toit five quarts of milk, warm from the cow, with some rennet; give it a stir about, and when the curd is come, put it into a linen cloth or bag; drain it well away from the whey, but do not squeeze it too much, and put it in to a mor- tar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Add to the curd half a pound of sweet al- monds, blanched, and beaten extremely fine, and half a pound of macaroons or Naples biscuits, beaten very fine; then put the yolks of nine eggs beaten, a nut- meg grated, two perfumed plums dis- solved in rose or orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar; mix all well together; melt a pound and a quar- ter of butter, and stir it well in. Wet a pound of fine flour with cold water, roll it out, put into it, by degrees, a pound of fresh butter, and shake a little flour on each coat as it is rolled. The perfumed plums may be omitted or not, according to your taste. Cheesecakes, French.—Take some of thepetits choux paste, made with water ; mix with it mxnc frontage a la cream that has been curdled cold, and then proceed in the usual way. Cheesecakes, Mrs. Harrison’s.—For the paste, use a quart of fine flour, or more, a pound of butter rubbed into the flour, with a quarter of a pound of sugar beat fine, two spoonsful of orange-flower water; make it into a paste, and lay it in patty-pans for the curd ; take the yolks of twelve eggs, beat in a pint of very thick cream; when the cream boils wp, put in the eggs; then take it oil’, and put it in a cloth over a cullender ; whey some new milk with rennet, lor the other curd ; when you temper them together, take a pound of currants, three qraarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs, four spoonsful of rose-water, and bake them quick. Cheesecakes, {Rich Paste for).—Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it thi-ee ounces of refined sugar, then wash half a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth ; put tlie flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some flour and sugar, to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill: a little more than fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar, heatup witli the white of an egg, as thick as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince- pies, or any .sweet things, should be washed. CHEIlRIJiS, auBeurre a VAllemande. —Pull the stalks from two pounds of black-heart cherries ; fry a large quan- tity of bread cut into dice, in a quarter of a pound of butter ; when the bread is well coloured, take it out rvith a skim- mer, and keep it hot; put the cherries into the remaining butter, with a glass of red wine and some sugar, and stew the cherries well through. Take them out also with a skimmer, and place them in a dish, put the fried bread into the cherry juice, turn them over in it, and put it over the cherries. Serve very hot. Cherries, Bottled.* — Gather your fruit before it becomes too ripe, and put it into bottles, fill them up as close as you can, and seal the corks. Place the bottles in the bain-marie, and as soon as the water begins to boil, lessen the fire, and a quarter of an hour after, take the water out of the bain-marie. Cherries m iJraMii?/.*—Choose the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half the stalks, and put them into very coid water. In about half an hour take them out, and drain them on a sieve ; weigh them, and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter of a pound of sugar; wlien you have clarified and boiled it to grandperle, put in the fruit, boil them up two or three timefl, stirring them gently witli a skimmer; then take them from tlie fire carefully, and put the clierriea into bottles or glass jars; when filled, add to each twelve cloves and half an ounce of