LAM LAM ( 304 ) Lamb (Lorn of) a la Per/^or</.—Neatly trim a loin of lamb; warm it over the fire in a stewpan, with a little oil, mixed with some green onions and mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper; then change the lamb into another stewpan, well lined with slices of veal, seasoned, find seven or eight truffles sliced, covered with thin rashers of bacon, and half a lemon, (;ut in pieces; let the whole stew over a slow fire, moistening with stock; and when done, skim the fat from the sauce, pass it through a sieve, place the loin on a dish with the truffles, and pour the sauce over. Lamb {Pascaline of).* — Scald four lambs’heads, bone the jaws, and cut off the ends of the noses. Scald also the feet, singe them, and then cook them all together in a blanc; when done, drain them, lay the heads in a dish ; fry your feet lightly in a little butter, with the yolks of four eggs, a little parsley, and a few mushrooms. Have ready a lamb’s pluck, dressed as directed, (see Lamb’s Livers) ; and having laid the feet, with their sauce, in the dish with the heads, place the rest round them, and serve them. Lamb Pasty.—Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces; lay beef suet at the bottom of the pasty; season the Iamb with pepper, salt, thyme chopped, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; lay it upon the suet, making a high border about it; then turn over your sheet of paste, close it up, and bake it; when it is baked, put in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten, and some good gravy. Lamb Pie, the German fVay.~C\xt a quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard them with small lardons of bacon, sea- soned with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a bay-leaf; add fat bacon pounded, small onions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs; put these into the pie, and let it bake for three hours; when baked, cut it open, skim off' all the fat, pour in a ragofit of oysters, and serve hot. Lamb Pie (a Savou7'y one).—Cut the lamb into pieces, and season it with pep- per, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, finely beaten. Make a good puff'-paste crust, put the meat into it, with a few lamb’s stones and sweetbreads, seasoned the same as the meat. Then put in some oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, about two inches long, first boiled green. Put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and let it bake for an hour and a lialf in a quick oven. In the mean time, take a pint of gravy, tlie oyster liquor, a gill of red wine, and a little grated nutmeg. ML\ all together wilh the yolks of two or three eggs, finely beaten, and keep stirring it the same way all the time. When it boils, pour it into the pie, put on the lid again, aud serve it to table. Lamb Pie (Sweet).— Cut your lamb into pieces, and season with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all well beaten: make a good puff-paste crust, line a dish with it, then lay iu your meat; strew on it some stoned raisins and currants, nicely washed, and some sugar; then lay on some forcemeat balls made sweet, and, in the summer, some artichoke bottoms boiled, and in the winter scalded grapes; add boiled Spa- nish potatoes, cut in pieces, tuandied citron, candied orange and lemon-peel, a few blades of mace; put butter on the top, close your pie, and bake it. Have ready against it comes out of the oven, a caudle made thus : take a pint of white wine, and mix in the yolks of three eggs; stir it well together over the fire one way, till it is thick; then take it off^ stir in a sufficient quantity of sugar, to sweeten it, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon ; pour it hot into the pie ; close it up again. Send it hot to table. Lamb (Quarter of) en Crepine.—Cot three onions into dice, and fry them in lard ; when nearly done, add a few sha- lots and parsley, shred small, basil, salt, spice, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, and half a pint of lamb’s blood; simmer these over the fire till pretty thick : have ready a quarter of lamb, boned, taking care not to injure the skin ; put the above fu7-ce in the place of the bone, roll it up in a caul, and roast it, basting with but- ter and bread crumbs ; pass a salamander over, to colour it; serve it with a duck sauce. hkua (Quarter of) with Herbs.—Roll a bit of butter in flour, and boil it a mo- ment with a few bread crumbs, chopped parsley, shalots, green thyme, salt, and pepper, a glass of white wine, and stock in proportion; the lamb being roasted, take up the shoulder, and pour this sauce between, in the_ s.ame manner as you generally do Seville orange, and pepper and salt. Lamb (Quarter of) Roasted and Lard- ed.—Take a fore quarter of lamb, lard the upper side of the joint with lean bacon, and sprinkle the other side thick with bread crumbs; then cover with paper to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. AVhen nearly done, take it from tlie fire, and cover the part tb.at has not been larded, a second time, with bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, and parsley chopped very fine; then put the lamb again before a bright fire to