C R E ( 1S7 ) C R O with a spoonful of powder-sugar. Bake, and serve it hot. CaEAM au Pin*—Mix the yolks of eight eggs with a proper quantity of powder sugar; to which add hy degrees a bottle of Frontignac, or any otlier sweet and aromatic wine; stir it const.antiy ; put into the bain marie, and keep jt stirring until the cream is set, and suffi- ciently done. Cream, fVhite or Natural.—Take a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and a bit of sugar; boil them together till they are redaced to one-third, and when the milk is sufficiently cool that you can bear your finger in it, dilute a little rennet with water, in a spoon : mix it well with the cream, and strain the whole through a sieye ; then take the dish in which you intend serving, and set it over some hot cinders; pour in the cream; cover it with a lid that will admit fire uponit; and when the cream is set, put it in a place to cool. Serve cold. CiiEAM, IVkipped.—Take a pint of thick cream, put it in a basin or stevvpan, and beat it up with a whisk to a strong froth, then mix in a little powder-sugar, and orange-flower water ; serve it in a small basket made with paste, and garnish round with sweet rusks. If your cream should not soon froth, as sometimes it will not, be careful that you do not beat it to butter. Cream, fVhipped.*—Put into a pan a quart of good double cream, which has been kept for two hours in pounded ice ; add to it a little gum-dragon in powder, and whisk the cream for at least a quar- ter of an hour, when it will have become properly frothed. Lay it on a napkin to drain thoroughly, and then mix it care- fully with six ounces of powder-sugar; and the instant before you send it to table, add to it whatever you intend to flavour it with. Serve your cream in a raised tart-crust, or iced vol au vent, and orna- mented with a sultane; or it may be placed on layers of almond-paste, or simply in a silver dish. Cream, fytiipped.* — Put some good cream, with a proportionate quantity of powder-sugar, a pinch of gum-dragon, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan ; whip it to a froth, with an osier whisk ; as the froth rises, let it stand an instant, and then take it off gently with a skimmer, and place it on a dish like a pyramid ; garnish your dish with green lemon or orange chips, and serve it. Cream {fPltipped), au Caramel.* — Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and when it has acquired the proper reddish- yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass of boiling water, over hot ashes; after which, it^must be reduced to a rather thick syrup. When cold, mix it with the whipped cream in the usual way. See IVhipped Cream. To this may be added the flavour of any ingredients you desire, by putting a small quantity of it into the sugar, the moment it attains its proper colour : for instance, a spoonful of starred anise, orange flowers, pr«/wiee«, a dozen of bit- ter macaroons, or filberts, crushed, &e. Cream {fVhipped), Printanniere■*— Dilute two spoonsful of essence of spi- nach, strained by degrees, with half a glass of Italian maraschino ; pour this mixture, and six ounces of powder-sugar, to whipped cream as directed. See Whipped Cream. Instead of the liqueur, the zestes of a couple of lemons, a sweet or Seville orange, or cedrat rasped on sugar, may be used. Strawberries or raspberries may also be placed here and there on the cream. Cream {.Whipped) atix Q^iatre Zestes.* —Take six ounces of lump-sugar, and rasp on it the fourtli part of the zeste of a sweet, the same of a Seville orange, the same of a cedrat, and iialf the zeste of a lemon; scrape the sugar in the usual way, and then mix it witli your cream, whipped as directed. See Whipped Cream. CKOQUE en Bouches.*—These are large pieces of ornamental confectionary, formed of various materials, as gim- lleltes, croquignoles, genoises, 4'c., or of oranges, cut into quarters, chesniits, green nuts, &c., arranged within moulds according to fancy, and cemented to- gether with boiled sugar. Croquettes of Boiled il/eaL*—Mince some boiled meat very small ; add to it some sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, and sweet herbs ; make them into a paste, and form it into little balls ; roll them in very fine raspings, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them with sauce piquante. Croquettes a la d'Estrecs.—Cse: the best putl-paste : roll it pretty thin, and cut It into different shapes, as fancy leads; hake it, and dress each piece upon a dish, in a handsome manner ; rub tliem with a little caramel, to make them stick as you place them; then put some cur- rant jelly all over tlie top, and make what flower or design you please, with nonpareils of different colours, round it. Croquettes d la Purisienne.''—Take a stick of vamllii, pound it with two ounces of sugar, and sift both tin ough a silk sieve ; mix it with seven ounces of sugar, well dried and pounded, and half S3