( 279 ) HAM II A M gar, ami pepper, in the same pan ; pour this sauce on llie liaiii, and serve. Ham, Essnice (if.—Take three or four pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces about an inch thick, and lay them in a atevvpan, witli slices of cai rots, pars- nips, and three or four onions ; let them sleiv till they stick to the pan, but take care they do not Inirn ; then by degrees pour in some good veal gravy, a few Iresh mushrooms cut in pieces, (or inushroom- poivder,) truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust of bread ; cover it close, .and simmer till pretty thick, then strain it off for u-e. Ham (zVauy-*—Take a deep saucepan, put into it a piece of fresh butter, seve- ral slices of ham, about six pieces of veal the size of a walnut, and two or three cirrots cut in small pieces; set tliese over a slow fire, and let them Bland till they give out their juices, and the ham and veal become crisp and stick; then put in a little stock, and let it boil; in an hour’s time add a glass of white wine, leave it a quarter of an hour, when it will be sufficiently done; take off every particle of fat; strain it into a pan, and set it by for use. Ham a la (iefec.* —Take a fiqe colour- ed, well-flavoured ham, trim it properly, cutting the large hone in the middle; take off the skin, and pare away great part of the fat; then soak it in cold water, for twelve hours, if a young ham, but double that time if an old one, chang- ing the water frequently; that period expired, wrap it in a napkin, and put it into a biaising-pan,or a large saucepan, full of water, with or without spices and herbs; let it boil pretty fast at first, then keep it boiling gently for five or six .hours; then push in a larding pin, and if it comes out easily, the ham is sufficiently done; let it stand till luke- warm, lay it in a deep disli, cover it with a board, on which place about fifteen ounds; vylien cold, take oil' the nap- in, trim it again carefully, and trace on the fat whatever ornament you may think pi-oper, cover it all over with jelly, put It into the oven, or pass a salamander over it, hot within eight or ten inches from it; dish it, and surround it with pieces of jelly, and place a rosette or palm-branch of it on the top of the ham. Ham la Green •—Rub your pork well with coininoii salt, and let it lay all night; make a pickle of brine as fol- lows: take two pounds of common salt, one pound of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of salt prunella, and one pound of brown sugar, pnunu them well, and boil them in five pints of water; when cold, put in the ham; let it lay on the rind side three days; then turn it every day for a fortnight; when it may he taken out, and hung up. Tills pickle is equally good for tongues, or raised beef. . Haji i/ou/.—Soak a fine ham in cold water for one or two days, according to its age ; tlien put it into a saucepan just big enough to hold it. with no more water than will cover it, and a pint of while wine ; let it boil, skimming it carefully, till done. When cold, take out the hock and tinder bones, and the skin ; pare away some of the fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as possible. Make a farce with the parings of the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs minced and pjunded. Take a pan tlie size you wi.sli to have your loaf, lay all over the inside a pretty firm paste, and tlien (hav- ing cut your ham iiuo tliin slices) place alternate layers of it and the farce in the pan, until it be quite full. Put a crust over the top, winch must unite with that in which the ham is; turn it over on :i baking plate, flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for an liour and a halt or two hours, according to its size. Serve it cold. Hams, to nta/ce.*—Make a brine of tlie following ingredients :—Put into your pan or barrel, sage, thyme, basil, bay- leaf, balm, juniper berries, salt and salt- petre, equal proportions of the best wine- lees and water ; the proportions of these ingredients must, of course, depend on the quantity of brine required. VVhen they have infused for some days, strain tlie liquor, press the herbs, thrown little water on the dregs to dissolve all the salt, press the herbs a second time, place your ham in the vessel, pour the brine over, and let it remain a month ; then take it out, drain and smoke it; when tlioroughly dry, mbit all over with equal quapnities of wine and vinegar, to prevent Ihe flies from touching it; be sUre to let it dry well. Ham in March-pane. — Tak.e eight pounds of march-pane paste, knead it up with one pound of loaf sugar to whiten it, (and the longer you work them together the whiter it becomes); cut it in two parts, one about five pounds weight, tlie other three; put tlie latter aside. Then take of cinnamon, cloves, and bole armenia, half an ounce each, pounded very fine, mix them with the largest portion, and add to it a suflicient quantity of red san- dal to give it the fine colour of boiled ham ; the whole being well mixed, work it up in the form of a Imm ; make several incisions in it with a knife, in which in- sert very thin pieces of the wliite paste, to represent veins of fat in the lean ; theii close tliesc places with your hands. Roll the white paste to about two or three