2 03 PUN ll saucepan filled with boiling hot water ; set it on the fire, and keep it constantly jj boiling for four hours: then take it out, I; dip it an instant in cold water, re- si move the cloth, and with a very sharp b knife rentove all the outside of the pud- I ding, strew powder-sugar over, and liav- I ingcut two ounces of pistachios, each into It six slices, fix them in like quills of a II hedgehog. Serve it as quick as possible. ; Puddings (St. Germains).—Cat eight j or ten onions into dice, and simmer them j slowly in a quarter of a pound of lard ; i when done, take them from the fire, add 1 to them half a pint of cream, a pint of 1 hog’s blood, the yolks of six eggs, two I pounds of bacon, cut into dice, salt, j and spices; mix these ingredients toge- ther well, put them into skins, and finish 1 \\\(e Black Prcdding. Pudding (2'ransparent). — Put eight ii eggs well beaten into a stewpan with |1 half a pound of sugar, pounded fine, half |l a pound of butter, and some nutmeg 1j grated. Set it on the fire, and keep I constantly stirring till it thickens. Then I set it into a basin to cool; put a rich !( puff-paste round the edge of the dish ; i] pour in the pudding, and bake it in a l( moderate oven. It will cut light and Ij clear. Candied orange and citron may ;| be added, if you think proper, i PUITS —Having given the I proper number of turns to some puff- paste, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; then cut a piece with a paste-cutter, the edges of which are 1 scolloped, then cut two more pieces with ) smaller cutters, and place them on the ( first, press them down a little on each I other, dorez and bake them : when about ; three parts done, sprinkle tnem with su- ;j gar, glaze them. Draw them from the ■ oven, take out the middle part, which 1 fill up with any kind of sweetmeat or \ preserve you may think proper. Punch.*—This is a delicious beverage, drank either hot or cold. It is composed of a mixture of lemon-juice and peel, sugar, rum, brandy, and water, in such proportions, that the liquor may be fla- voured with all the ingredients, but that none may predominate. By the intro- duction of other articles, such as arrack, champagne, &c. to the above, it is called champagne punch, arrack punch, &c. ! The best method of proceeding is as fol- I lows : pare your lemons very thin, and i soak the peel in spirits; dissolve the I sugar in the lemon-juice, then put in the spirits in the proportion of two glasses of rum to one of brandy, some strong green tea, and water at discretion. Punch.*—Take a very sound lemon, rub the rind on a piece of fine sugar ( -125 ) QUA (about half a pound); upon this sugar pour half a pint of strong green tea, boil- ing hot; a little syrup of capillaire, the juice of two lemons, strained ; to these add a quart of brandy ; set the whole on the fire, agitate the flame ivith the punch ladle, and when the liquor is reduced one third, extinguish it, and pour the hot punch into glasses. Punch.*—Squeeze the juice of six fine lemons througn a sieve into a China bowl; grate some lemon-peel on a piece of sugar, scrape, ofi’ the surface as it be- comes yellow, and dissolve the sugar in the lemon-juice; then pour in a bottle of champagne, the same of rum, a bottle of brandy, and a little green tea; dilute these ingredients with hot water at dis- cretion. The quantity of sugar must also be regulated according to taste. Punch, Froinage Bavarois.*—Infuse the rind of two lemons, pared very thin, in half a pound of clarified sugar; strain the infusion, and having added the juice of three lemons, and six drachms of cla- rified isinglass to the infusion, finish in the usual way (see Fromagc Bavarois); add half a glass of rum or arrack to the cream. Punch, Transparent Jelly.*- — Throw into some nearly boiling syrup the rinds of two lemons; cover, and leave the in- fusion to cool; in the meantime, filter the juice of five lemons into a basin; then strain the infusion through a tammy ; add a glass of good rum, or arrack, then an ounce of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) _ Punch, Souffles Frant^ais of.*—Infuse six drachms of tea in nine glasses of boil- ing milk ; cover and leave it a quarter ot an hour; in the meantime prepare your souffle in the usual way (see Soufle Franqais); put in the infusion of tea, and at the moment you are about to put in the yolks of eggs, add half a glass of good rum or arrack, and the juice of four lemons; finish -y oar souffle as directed. See the above-mentioned recipe. Punch, Syrup of.* — Make a syrup with lemons, as directed; see syrups, and when nearly cold, and well-flavoured, pour on it a bottle of arrack, or rum ; stir It well to amalgamate the two liquids; cover the vessel till the whole is quite cold, when it may be bottled. Q. Quails, Chasseur.*—Put the quails in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- le.if, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until they arc tender, when add a dessert-spoonful of (lour, half a glass of