) ; j a 9 !i f 3 3 a I i CAB (89) CAB press it. Savoys and greens are boiled in the same manner; but they should al- 3vays be boiled by themselves. You may, if you please, chop it, and heat it with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. C.1BB.4GE8 {Boiled and Steioed).—Cs\i- bage.s are generally simply tied round, and boiled. If you wish to stew them, cut a cabbage into four; boil it a quarter of an hour, with a piece of streaked bacon, cut into bits, and the rind on. After- wards change it in cold water; squeeze it well, and tie each quarter, that it may keep its form. Then stew it with some stock, salt, and pepper, a bunch of pars- ley and green onions, cloves, a little nut- meg, two or three roots, and the meat you intend to serve with it; when both the meat and cabbage are done, wipe off’ the grease, and dish it for table, the streaked bacon on it, and serve with a sauce of good cullis, agreeably seasoned. The ditferent parts of meat that cabbages are best boiled with are, veal tendons, breast of beef, a bit of round of beef, pork chitterlin^, a shoulder of mutton, boned and tied into a round, or a trussed capon. Whatever meat the cabbage is stewed with, should be previously boiled a few minutes in water, to take off the scum. Cabbage a la Bourgeoise.*—Take a whole cabbage, boil it during a quarter of an hour, and then shift it into cold water; squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves, which you must take off' one by one, spreading over each a little force-meat, made like that for stuffed duck. Put the leaves again one over the other, that they may appear as if the cabbage was entire; secure them thus with pack-thread, and stew them d la braise in the same manner as neat’s tongue, seasoning to your taste. When the cabbage is done, press it lightly in a linen cloth, to take off the fat; cut it in two, and pul it on a dish, pouring over it a good cullis. Cabbage d la Bourgeoise.—Take out the heart of some large cabbages, parboil them, and then stun the centre of the cabbage, between each leaf, with the following stuffing : mince the white part of the poultry, or game with some bacon and veal; if you have no poultry, the veal is sufficient; thicken v/ith the yoiks of some eggs ; tie up the cabbage that r«ne of the stuffing may fall out, and boil it in some stock, with the saucepan- lid on. Cabbage d la Creme.*—Wash your c.'ibbage very clean; boil it in water, with ?. little salt, then leave it to drain and cool; afterwards cut it in middling sized pieces, and brown them in butter, adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg , moisten with cream, then reduce it over a gentle fire, till it becomes of a very thick consistence. , , Cabbage d la CrSmc.—Wash and boil the cabbage in water with a handful _ot salt; when soft, take it out, squeeze it, and put it in a stew-pan, with some but- ter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, aiid a spqon- ful of flour, moistening with a little cream. Cabbage Cream. — Put a gallon of milk over the fire, and skim it as long as any froth rises, then empty it into eight or ten bowls, as fast as you can without making it froth; then set them in a place where the wind may blow upon them; when the milk is_ rather cooled, gather off the cream with your hands, crumple it together and lay it on a plate ; when you have laid four or five layings, one upon another, then dip a feather in rose-water and musk, and stroke it over it; then sift some fine sugar and grated nutmegover it, and lay on three or four layers more; then set all the milk on the fire to boil again, and when it rises up, distribute it as you did before in your bowls, and use it in the like manner; this do for four or five times, laying on your cream as before, one upon another, till it is as high and as round as a cabbage. Let one of the bowls stand, because it will be thickest and most crumpled, and lay on that last on the top of all; strew loaf sugar pounded over the whole, and serve. Cabbage d la Flamande.*—Cut a cab- bage into quarters, parboil, and then change it into cold water; squeeze it, take out the heart, and tie it round; then stew it with a piece of butter, some good stock, seven or eight onions, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt and coarse pep- per ; when almost done, put in some vine- gar ; and when the whole is sufficiently cooked, take a crust of bread, rather larger than the palm of your hand, fry it in butter; and put it in the bottom of the dish, upon which place the cabbage and sausages, with the onions round, taking care that the fat be well dried off the whole; then skim the sauce, add a little cullis to it, and serve it, neither too thick, nor too thin, pour over the whole. Cabbages {to Keep).—Small’close cab- bages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch, and be very fine after many weeks keeping Cabbage and Milk Soup.—Boil a large white-hearted cabbage in water; when, half done, put to it a quarter of a pound of butter, seasoning to your taste ; wlicn 1 3 I