B RE ( 7‘ BRA ) BOURGUIGNOTTE. - Cut Bome truffles into balls the size of a nutmeg; take some small round mushrooms, and put about twenty of each into a small stewpan : pour over them a pint of red wine, with a small lump of sugar t re- duce the wine to a glaze. Then tl)row into the stewpan six spoonsful of ciyjtrg- nole, and two of consmnma. Boil the whole for half an hour, taste it, and if well seasoned, serve it up. BOUTONS.—Make a good, well sea- soned godiveau; lay this upon broad thin slices of bacon, such as will wrap up your whole bouton ; put to it a good ragout of veal sweet-breads, mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms, truffles, and asparagus tops, dressed with white sauce; then cover this tvith another layer of godi- veau, and slices of bacon ; then bake it either between two fires, or dress it otherwise ; when it is done, take off the fat; add some lemon juice, and garnish with farced rolls, frincandeaux, and marinades. You may make boutons of fish, by making the godiveau of carp, tench, eel, or what fish you please, well mincea and seasoned. BRAISE, {to.)*—This is a method of dressing meat, poultry, &c. &c. without its undergoing any evaporation. It is done by lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, beef, or veal, upon which place whatever you may intend to braise, and also add carrots, onions, lemons, bay- leaf, herbs, pepper and salt. BRAISING Pan.—A deep well-tin- ned copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which must close hermetically, and have a ledge round so that coals or hot ashes may be placed on the top when necessary. brandy Cream.—HoW two dozen blanched sweet almonds, anti three bit- ter pounded, iu a little milk. AVhen cold, add to it the yolks of five eggs well l)caten in a little cream, sweeten and put to it two ghasses of the best brandy, and when well mixed, add a quart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but do not let it bod; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into glasses. When cold it will be ready; if you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. A ratafia drop may be added. Bhandv Pudding.—Jmc. a mould with Jar-iaioins stoned, or dried cherries, then lay lliin slices of French roll; next jnit a layer of ratafias or macaroons, then the Iruit, rolls, .and cakes, in sncces.sion, un- til llie mould be full, pouring in at times two glassc.s of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites separately, nut to them a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweeten- ed, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon grated. Pour it into the mould, and when the solid has imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil an hour; keep the mould the right side up- wards. BRAWN, to Bake.—Take raw lean brawn, and the same quantity of fat ba- con, mince them small, then pound them in a stone mortar, with a handful of sage, seasoned with salt, pepper and ginger, add the yolks of eggs, and some vinegar, then put the brawn into a cold paste, lay on butter and bay leaves, make your pie round and bake it. To be eaten cold. B nAWN (Mock).—Take four cow-heels, clean and wash them thoroughly, and boil in plenty of water till very tender, then take them out and shred theni in long pieces, which put in a stewpan, just cover them with stock and let them stew a little; have ready chopped a handful of capers, half as many gherkins, and one glass of vinegar, stir them in with the heels ; put all this into a mould, and when cold take it out. Bhawn {Mock).— Boil two pair of neats’ feet very tender, and pick the flesh entirely from the bones ; take the belly-piece of pork, and, boil it, when nearly done, bone and rtll up the meat ol the feet in the pork very tight; then wrap a coarse cloth tightly round it, and tie it with tape. Boil it very tender, and hang it in a cloth till cold, then put it in some sousing liquor, and keep it for use. Brawn, to Souse.—Take a brawn about three years old, cut off the head close to the roots of the cars, and cut a fine collar oil the side bone and hinder legs, an iitrh deeper in the belly than on the back, bone them; bind them up. equally at both ends, let them lie in water to soak a night and a day, put them into boiling water, keeping them continually skimmed, and after the first quick boiling, le.ssen the fire by degrees; let them stand over it a whole night, then take them off. put them into ocep hoops, and bind tliem with tape; and when they are cold, put them into a marinade of oat-meal and bran boiled in water; strain it, when itiscold,througba sieve ; pnt in vinegar and salt. nmMosc up the vessel tight, and keep it for use. Brawn (Nonse/or).—Boil a quarter of a iieck ol wheat bian, .a sprig ol bay. a sin igof rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it for halt an hour, strain, and let it get cold. BREAD.—Ovens should be construrt- ed of a circular lot m, and not lower from the roof than twenty inches, nor higher