ART (30) ART of paste so as to form a star of as many points as you think proper. Apricot //'iwe.—Pare, and take the stones from ripe apricots, bruise and put them to six quarts of water and one of white wine, simmer gently for a consi- derable time: when the fruit is soft, pour the liquor to apricots, prepared as the others; let it stand twelve hours, stir- ring occasionally; pour oil' the liquid, and press the remains through a fine hair bag, and put them together in a cask to ferment: put in about a pound of sugar to each gallon. Boil an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of nutmeg, in a quart of white wine, and while hot pour it into the fermenting wine, and hang a bunch of fresh burrage in the caskfor three days. Draw it off'and keep in bottles. AQ\]AMimlilis.—Take cloves, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, galingal,cubebs, and cardamoms, of each four drachms ; put to them two pints of the juice of celen- dine, one pint of the juice of spearmint; balm juice, flowers of melilot, cowslip, rosemary, burrage, bugloss, and mari- golds, of each one drachm; carraway, coriander, and fennel, of each four drachms ; four quarts of sack, and two of white wine; the strongest brandy, angeli- ca water, and rose water, of each a quart. Bruise the spices and seeds, and steep them with the herbs and flowers in their juices, waters, sack, wine, and brandy, all night. Next day distil it, and from these quantities may be drawn off" two gallons. Sweeten it with sugar candy. Keep it in a cool place in bottles. ARTICHOKES and Almonds, a me- lange.—Take half a pound of sweet al- monds blanched and beat fine, with two tea spoonsful of orange flower water; then take a quart of cream, and boil it with a small quantity of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it with fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds; stir them to- gether, and strain it through a sieve. Let the cream cool, and thicken it with the yolks of six eggs; then garnish a deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom ; then put in shred artichoke bottoms, being first boiled; and upon these a little melted butter, shred citron, and candied orange; repeating the same until tlie dish is nearly full, then pour in the cream, and bake it without a lid. AVhen it is baked, grate sugar over it, and servo it hot. Half an hour will serve to bake it. Artichokes d la Barigottle.*—Cut the ends of the leaves from three artichokes, and blanch them for about twenty mi- nutes in boiling water; let them cool, take out the chokes and drain them ; then fry them in very hot batter. Tut into a saucepan half a pound of grated bacon, as much butter and oil, chop some mushrooms very small, with a spoonful of shred shallots, the same of parsley, a little spice, salt and pepper, do these all up together, let the mixture cool, and then, having drained the artichokes, fill them with it, tie them up and braise them for three-quarters of an hour. Take off' the string and place the artichokes in your dish, with a little espagnole or a light ronx. Artichokes i la Barigeule.*—Take two or three artichokes, according to the size of your dish, cut away the stalk and half the leaves; put them into a stew- pan with a little stock or water, two spoonsful of good oil, a little salt and pep- per, an onion, two roots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil the whole until the sauce is nearly consumed ; then fry the artichokes to make them crisp ; next, put them in a baking dish with the sauce that remains ; take out the choke, and colour the leaves with a salamander or in a hot oven ; serve with a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Artichokes Boiled.—Take six or eight young artichokes, cut and neatly trim them, throw them into cold water as yon do them. Boil them for half an hour in boiling water, with a handful of salt, then drain, and place them on a dish; serve with melted butter. AmicnoKE Bottomsen Canapi.*—Rub as many artichoke bottoms as you may require with lemon juice, and boil them in water with butter, salt, and lemon or verjuice ; when done take them out and drain them. Garnish them with hard yolks of eggs, fine herbs minced, truffles boiled and cut very small, capers, gher- kins, filets of anchovies, and carrots; place these with the artichoke bottoms, in the table-dish, on a bed of parsley and green onions, seasoned with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar. Artichoke Bottoms d Vicariate.*— Turn and boil fourteen artichoke bot- toms the same as for artichokes d la mag- nonnaise, then cut oft' one-third from each of your artichokes. Then place them upright on the cut side two by two, in a dish in the form of a crown. Cut seven slices from beef oj- ox palates, cut these again into semi-circles and orna- ment the outer ridges d dents dc loitp, or notch them. Place these scmi-circles between the artichoke bottoms. Then cut the remainder of the artichokes and the cuttings of the palates into dice, which must be tossed in a magnonnaise d la ravigotte. Pour this into the centre of tile crown, or rather into the middle of the dish.