TUR TU a ( 474 ) • TuiinoT, en ALUelute Normande.* — Takft a small lurbot, and having pre- pared it as usual, slit it down tlie back, separate the flesh from the bones, be- tween which, put a good maiire d’hdtcl; take a silver or other dish that will bear, the fire, put into it six large onions, cut into dice, season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, thyme, bay-leaf, and parsley, all dry and rubbed into powder; then lay the turbot on it, strew salt over, put lemon-juice, rnelted butter, and add half a bottle of white wine; place your dish on a moderately heated stove, covered with a portable oven ; baste it frequently. Cut some bread into pieces, the size of a crown piece, and when the turbot is done, place them round the dish, and serve. Turbot, Mayomiaiseof.*—The pieces are soaked in a mayonnaise, and served as usual. (See Turkey d la mayonnaise.) Turbot, « la Ste. Menehould.*—Take the remains of a i eady-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, lay them on a dish, with hechamelle, make the. top quite smooth, and cover it with grated bread and Parmesan cheese ; moisten it with some melted butter; make it hot in the oven, and colour the top with a salaman- der. Turbot, viith Parmesan.—Soak a cou- ple of small turbot in melted butler, with shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; when they have lain about an hour, pour the butter, &c. on a dish, with a little cullis, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, in equal quantities; place the fish on it, cover them in the same man- ner, and bake. When done, clean the dish, and serve dry. Turbot, Stuffed and Baked.*—Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn over the skin of the under side, without cutting it ofl'; make a farce, with some butter, parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all shred, and united together, with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; spread this all over the under part of the fish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter in a saucepan; add to it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet herbs shred, salt, and pepper ; rub the fish all over with this, then bread, and bake it. Turbot, with fVhite Sauce.— Put a sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and sweet herbs into astewpan, place a small turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt, pepper, and a leek, cut in pieces over it; cover the fish with equal quantities of vinegar, and white wine; let it boil over a moderate fire until sufliciently done; in the meantime, melt a pound of butter. add to It a couple of boned anchovies, two spoonsful of capers, shred stn.ill, two or three leeks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, water, and a sprinkling of flour r make all these quite hot, stirring constantly till done; then disli the tur- bot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. TUIIEEN d la Flamande.—Take four sheep’s-tails, half a pound of pickled pork, six turkey pinions, and a large savoy, cut in quarters, tie all theiie up separately; scald the two latter, and then put all into a large saucepan, with parsley, sweet herbs, scallions, cloves, pepper, and salt; put in sufficient stock to cover it: close the saucepan, and let it boil till all the articles are done; then drain the meat, put it into a tureen, and pour the sauce over. Tureen Melangee.* — Braise three pigeons, three sheep’s-tails, a dozen larks, some slices of streaked bacon, fillets of poultry, a little veal, and some small sausages pricked in several places; do them in a sufficient quantity of slock, and let tliem simmer for four or five hours. Take off all the fat; pour the whole into a large tureen, and serve. Tureen d la Neuvaiiie.—Take any kind of meat, game, or poultry, accord- ing to your pleasure, mince it small, and mix it with chopped onions, shred suet, salt, spices, and half a glass of tirandy ; put this mixture into a deep dish that will bear the fire; cover it close, and fasten it down with a paste; set it on a moderate fire to stew slowly. In about five lioiirs’ time, remove the paste, clear away the fat, and serve it either hotorcold. Tureen Provengale. * — Put into a glazed pan half a pound of rice, on which lay two or three I’ashers of bacon, a large fowl, and two pigeons; cover these with lentils, and pour in two quarts of warm water; put your pan into a inodcr.ate oven for three hours ; at the end of that time, pour the whole into a soup tureen, and serve very hot. Tureen Iloyale.*—Take some fillets of kid, and lamb, a fat pheasant, two partridges, a leveret, and two i)igeons ; lard all these with streaked bacon, and place them in a large braksing-pan on slices of b.TCon, and veal, with salt, and spices; pour over them a pint of good stock ; close the pan, lute the edges with asie, and set it on a moderate fire for six ours. In the mean time, take some veal sweetbreads, truffles boiled in white wine, morels, and any other article you please; nut them into some good stock, and let tliem simmer some time. VVhen your braise is quite done, pour it into a tureen, placing the largest pieces at