298 K I D K I R four pounds of crushed sugar, in three quarts of filtered water, add half a pound of orange flower water, mix this with the brandy, strain it through a jelly-bag and bottle it. Keunels, Ratafia of.—Take a pound of apricot kernels, or, if you choose, you need only use almonds. Let them in- fuse eight days in two bottles of brandy, and one bottle of water, with a pound of sugar, a liandful of coriander-seed, and a small quantity of cinnamon ; then strain tlirough a filtering bag, and when quite clear, bottle itofl'. KETCHUP, English.—Peel ten cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put them into a quart of white wine vinegar; take a quart of white port, put it on the fire, and when it boils, put in twelve or four- teen anchovies, washed and cut in pieces: let them simmer in the wine till they are dissolved ; when cold, put them to the vinegar; then take half a pint of white wine, and put into it some mace, some ginger sliced, a few cloves, a spoonful of whole pepper bruised ; let them boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a whole nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with two or three spoonsful of horse-radish; add it to the rest, stop it close, and stir it once or twice a day. It will soon be fit for use. Keep it close stopped up. Ketchup, JVhite.—Take a quart of white wine, a pint of elder vinegar, and one tiuart of water ; half a pound of an- chovies, with their liquor, half a pound of scraped horse-radisli, an ounce of slialots bruised,an ounceof white pepper bruised, an ounce of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs cut in quarters; boil all together till half is consumed, then strain it off, and when cold, bottle it for use. It is proper for any white sauce, or to put into melted butter. KID.—Kid is good eating when itis but three or four months old, its flesh is then delicate and tender, but is not used after it has done sucking. To be good, itought to be fat and white. Itis dressed in the same manner as lamb or fawn. Kid to 7fo«s/.—Take the. head of the kid and prick it backwards, over the shoulders, and tie it down ; then lard it with bacon, and draw it with lemon-peel and thyme; then make a, farce of grated bre.id, flour, some forcemeat, minced small, beef suet, and sweet herbs, season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace, and nut- meg, add some cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; put this farce into tlie caul of the kid, and put into the inside, sew it up close, roast it, and serve with venison 8ciUC6» KIDNEYS.—-Cut them through the long way, score them, and sprinkle them over with a little pepper and salt; in order to broil all over alike, and to keep them from curling on the giidiron, run a avire skewer right through them. They must be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to turn them frequently till they are done ; they will take about teii or twelve minutes broiling, provided they are done over a brisk fire; or, if you choose, you may fry them in butter, and make gravy for them in the pan (after the kidneys are taken out), by putting in a teaspoonful of flour; as soon as it_looks brown, put in a sufficient quantity of water as will make gravy; they will take five minutes longer frying than broiling. Garnish with fried parsley : you may im- prove them if you think proper, by chop- ping a few parsley leaves very fine, mix them with a bit of fresh butter, and a little pepper and salt, and then put some of tliis mixture over each kidney. Kidney Dumplings.* — Make your dumplings in the usual way, put in each a mutton kidney, well washed, and sea- soned, with pepper and salt; boil them tied in a cloth, and serve them very hot. Kidney Omelet.*—Take a fine kidney from a cold roasted loin of veal, mince and soak it well in some cream; break seven or eight eggs on it, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; beat the whole with a whisk, and fry your omelet, taking care to keep it pretty th'ck. Kidney Pasty.—Roast a loin of veal ; when it is almost done, take the kidney, the fat, and some of the meat, and mince it small, with the marrow of half a dozen veal marrow bones, cold ; season with marjoram, thyme,and winter savory, cut small or pounded; add a quarter of a pint of rose-w,ater, the yolks of six eggs, a little nutmeg sliced, half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of currants ; mix all well together; and make them up in small pasties of puff paste, and fry them in butler. Kidney Pudding.*—Take a nice beef kidney, split it and soak it, then sea- son it with pepper and s.ali; make a paste, put in the kidney, cover with the paste, and pinch round the edge; it will take some time Ixiiiing. KIRSCH EN /r«sser.*—The best cher- ries for this purpose are the inorclla, which should be taken when qulte_ ripe : take off the stalks, and put the fruit into a tub. Have some new wc^d ashes, and wet them so as to make a kind of mouar of them, and extend it over the cherries; these ashes in drying form a complete hard crust, and thus prevents any eva- poration, and assists the fermentation. Leave the fruit thus for six weeks, at the end of which, remove the ashes, and