ELD ( 2; ■fi eggs, then do them all up together, and 11 serve them very liot. 1 _ Eggs d la Tripe au Roux.*—Take a ) I little buiter, and a spoonful of flour, ilJ colour it over the fire, and add a handful 11| of small onions cut into dice, a little more butter, and a small quantity of stock : set them on the fire; when tlie onions are 03 sufficiently done, put in some hard boiled y- eggs sliced, boil the whole up once, put Sin a few drops of vinegar, salt and pep- per, and serve them. V Amlher way. * — Put some sliced onions, and a little butter into a saiice- II pan, set it over a gentle fire for a short Ji time; then add some maigre cullis, or I roi/a’, made as above: a glass of white I wine, a little water, salt and pepper. V When this is tolerably thick, take a well li dried omelet, cut it in pieces, and put it c to the onions; make it quite hot, taking R care that it does not boil, and when ready 11 for table, put mustard to it, and serve. Eggs with Verjuice.—Well beat up )i some eggs with a little verjuice, then put 1, to them salt and nutmeg; put them over f the fire with a little butter, and when t, they are about as thick as cream, serve I them. Eggs, fVhites of {to make a dish of).— Take the whites of twelve eggs, beat li them up with four spoonsful of rose- water, some lemon-peel grated, and a little nutmeg ; sweeten them with sugar, mix them well, and boil them in four bladders; tie them in the shape of an egg, and boil them hard ; they will take half an hour ; lay them in a dish ; when cold, mix half a pint of thick cream, a gill of mountain, and the juice of half an orange all together; sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over the eggs. Egg (Vine.—Beat up an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. Wlien it boils, pour a little of it to the egg by de- gree.s, till the whole is in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, set i t over a gentle lire, stir it one way for a minute, not longer; for if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will curdle; serve with toast. You may make, it as above, without warming the egg, and it will be lighter on the stomach, though not so agreeable to the palate. ELD Ell Flower Fritters.—They are made whilst the elder flowers are in bloom; and they should marinate three or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange- flower water, and lemon-peel ; when drained, dip tliem in a good thick batter to fry, and serve with rasped sugar, as in general. 13 ) ELD EtnEti Buds Pickled.—elder buds ■ should be gathered when they are about tlie size of hop-buds; put them into a •strong brine of salt and water for nine days; and stir them two or three times a day. Put them into a pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour over them the water they came out of. Set them over a slow fire till they become quite green, and ihen make a pickle for them of alle- gar (made of sour ale), a little mace, a few shalots, and some ginger sliced; boil this two or three minutes, and pour it upon the buds; then tie them dowji, and keep them in a very dry place. Eldeu Shoots Pickled.—Gsxhe.r the elder shoots when of the thickness of a tobacco-pipe, and put them into salt and water all niglit; then put them in layers into stone jars, and between every layer strew a little mustard seed, scraped horse-radish, a few shalots, a little white beet root, and a cauliflower pulled into small pieces ; pour boiling allegar (made of sour ale), upon it, and scald it three times; keep it in a dry place, with a leather tied over it. Elder Vinegar. — Put dried elder flowers into stone or double glass bottles, fill them up with good wine vinegar, and set them in the sun, or by the fire, till their virtue is extracted. Elder Vinegar.*—Choose the elder- flowers when just blown, take away all the stalks, and when the flowers are about half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jar with vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand in the sun for twenty days ; then draw it oft', press the flowers, and having filtered the whole, bottle it; take care to keep the bottles closely corked. Elder Vinegar. —The elder-flowers should be gathered belore they are too much blown ; pick them clean Irom the great stalks, and dry them in the sun, when it is not too hot; put a handful of them to a quart of the best rvliite wine vinegar, and let it stand twelve or four- teen days ; then strain it, and draw it oft’, and put it into the vessel, but keep back a quart, and make it very hot; put it into the vessel to make it ferment; then stop It close for use, and draw it oft'when it is wanted. Elder [Vine *—Pour a gallon of boil- ing water OH every gallon of elder-berries, let It stand twelve hours; then draw it on, and boil it up with three pounds and a half ol sugar ; rvhen boiling, beat up sonie whites of eggs .and clarify it: skim it clear, then add lialf an ounce of pound- ed ginger, to every gallon of the wine; boil it a little longer, belore you put it in the tub; when cool, put in a toast rubbed X 3