( 505 ) woo woo coal flic : let them get cold, then Inrd them all over, pound some bacon in a mortar, mix with it the livers of the birds, pounded also, witli two or three leaves of Bweet basil; mince the entrails very fine, and mix thena with the rest of \\w farce, raise the pie, lay some of the farce at the bottom of it, and put the rest into the woodcocks, lay them in the pie, put between them some pounded bacon, mixed with fresh butter, seasoned with a little mace, nutmeg, and salt; then lay in a nice veal cutlet, and over that some slices of bacon, cut very thin ; put on the cover, and set it in the oven furthree or four hours, according to the number of birds; serve cold. For another way of making Woodcock Pie, follow the directions given for Snipe Pie. Woodcocks, Potted.—They are done in the same manner as pigeons are potted. Woodcocks Ptfree of,en Croutons.*— Take the meat and insides of three or four cold roasted woodcocks, and pound it with nearly a quarter of a pound of bacon, and some sweet herbs; put the bones and other hits of the birds into a Stewpan, with a glass of white wine, some parsley leaves, a bay-leaf, a clove, two glasses of stock, and six dessert spoonsful of veloute, reduce these to half, rub the whole through a bolting cloth, and when cold, pour it over the pounded meat, and pass thep«rcethrough a sieve, as usual; if it will not pass easily, add a little eonsonivii to it; put this puree into a saucepan, and keep it hot. Prepare some croutons as directed for fillets en canapes (only making them an inch and a half thick, and of a pointed oval shape), and when the middle is cleared away, fill the space with the puree, and serve the croutons. Woodcocks, au Restaurant.* — Take a leash of woodcocks ; take the trails from two of the finest, with which mince, and mix some calf’s liver, and stuff them; truss all three, and roast them ; when the bird which has the trail in, ■ is about two tliirds done, take it uo, pound it, bones and all, and boil it in equal quantities of stock and red Bur- gundy, with salt, pepper, and shalots; when it has boiled half an hour, rub it through a sieve, and serve it in the dish with the roasted woodcocks. Woodcocks Roasted.—lHhey sliould be roasted with a toist under to receive the trail, which must be served umler them in the dish. Serve with melted butter, and gravy for sauce. Woodcocks, Salmis (/."'—Take three cold roasted woodcocks; cut them up. trim the pieces, and put all the best parts into a stewpan ; put the rem- nants into a mortar, with a pinch of pars- ley leaves, six shalots, a bay-leaf, garlic if liked, and pepper ; pound these well, and put them into another siewpan, with a little melted butter ; set tliem on the fire for about ten minutes, then add a glass of while wine, three ladiesful of consomme, and six of espagnole, reduce this to half, rub it through a bolting sieve, and pour it over the woodcock ; make the whole hot without boiling, and serve, it with sippets in the dish. Woodcock, Salmis de. Table of.*—Cut up the woodcock on the table, and put the pieces on a dish, which place on a stand, with a lampur.der it; add pepper, salt, shred shalots, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice of three lemons, and a bit of butter; strew rasping.s over, and boil slowly for ten minutes, stirring occasion- ally. Use spirits of wine for your lamp. Woodcock Sauce.— Pound the bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of cullis, and two spoonsful of red port; reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, and then strain it; when strained, add pepper, salt, and the juice of two oranges. Woodcocks Stewed. — Slit them, hnt do not take out tlie insides ; fry them in melted bacon, just to brown them ; then put them into a stewpan, with some good gravy, salt, pepper, and some mushroom powder; add a little lemon-juice, and let the whole stew gently till done. Woodcocks, en Swfowf.—Make aforce- meat with some veal, as much beef-suet, chopped and beaten in a mortar, an e^ual quantity of crumbs of bread, with a little beaten mace, pepper, and salt, some par.tley, and a few sweet herbs; mix all up with the yolk of egg; half roast your woodcocks; then lay some of the force- meat round a small baking-dish ; chop the trail, and strew it all over the disii, then lay in the woodcocks ; put into a stewpan, truffles, morels, and mush- r(3oms, a parboiled sweetbread ent into pieces; let them stew together, boat it up with a little white wine; and then put lliem to some good gravy, and keep stirring it until of a proper consistence; set it to cool, and then pour it over tlic woodcocks, and lay the yolks of hard boiled eggs all about; work up the re- mainder of the forcemeat, and roll it out like paste, and lay over the birds sauce and eggs; close the edges, wash it over with yolks of eggs, and set it in the oven; it will take half an boui baking ; serve it to table very hot. Woodcocks {Tureen of).*—Take ns many wo.idcocks as your tureen will re- 2 X I 1