LEM ( 313 ) LE M tlicskin and seeds; put to it the grated lemon, and about half a pint of pippin- jelly; take tlie same weiglit of sugar as of tlie inside, boil the sugar to a very strong then put it to tlie inside, and boil all very quick, till it becomes a jelly, which may be ascertained by dip- ping in the skimmer, and holding it up to drain; if it is sufficiently jellied, it will break from the skimmer in flakes, and if not, it will run offin little streams; when done, put it into glasses or pots. Lemon Mince Pies.—Squeeze out the juice from a lai'ge lemon ; boil the out- side till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chop- ped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as for other pies. Make a sliort crust, and fill the patty-pans in the usual manner. Lemon Paste.—Cut off the ends of the lemons, and run them through and through with a long pin ; put them on tlie fire in water, and boil them till ten- der ; then take thesi out, lay them in cold water a minute, put them into a cloth, and press out the water; pound and rub them through a sieve, mix them with double the quantity of sugar boiled to la %rande plimie. Set the whole on the fire to simmer, stirring constantly, and finish the paste as nstiai. Le.mon Pastille.—Grate the rind of a lemon without any of the white, infuse it in a glass of water, with half an ounce of gum-dragon ; when the latter is com- pletely dissolved, press it through a cloth, put it into a mortar, and work it up with sugar to the proper consistence; then form it according to your fancy, and dry them in the oven. Lemon Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- sible ; put it in a plate, take three or four lemons, and squeeze their juice over the sugar; mix it well with a spoon, till you make it rather a tbickish paste, so that von can take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, about the size of a sixpence, place them in a stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry', then take them off from the paper; you may use, if you please, some of the peel grated, but not chipped; for, ns it i.s a melting pastil, some of the bits would re- main in the nioutli. Lemon Peel Camliul.* — Take some thick-rinded lemons, pare olf the yellow peel, and throw it into boiling water till soft, n hen it must be [lut into cold water. Clarify some fine sugar, and boil it au pelit lisie, and having drained the lemon- peel, pour on it tlie syrup (whilst liot) ; the. next day boil the syrnp again, niut return it to the peel; tlie third and founli days proceed in the same mannei', add- ing a small quantity of clarified sugar ; tlie last time itie syrup is boiled, as soon as it rises toperle, put in the peel, cover and boil the whole together once, and. when cold, drain and dry them in a stove. Lemon Peels Candied., or Dried.— Take some preserved lemon-peels, wash them in warm water, and put them on a sieve to drain ; boil some syrup on the fire till it comes to a blow, and put your peels in ; as soon as they are covered with sugar take tliem out again, put them on wires for all the sugar to drop through, then let them stand till cold, and put them into bo.xes. Lemon Peel to Candy.—Take some lemon-peels, and clean them well from tlie pulp, and let them lay two days in salt and water; then scald and drain them dry, then boil them in a thin syrup till they look quite clear. After which, take them out, and have ready a thick syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer them till the sugar-candies about the pan and peels. Then lay tliem separately on a hair sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to dry in a slow oven. Lemon Peelau Caramel.*—Take some very dry preserved lemon-peel, and cut it into several small square pieces ; put tliese pieces each on the point of little sticks for this purpose, and dip them into caramel sugar as directed. See dies- nuts au caramel. Lemon Peel Petits Souffles.*—Pat into a saucepan two ounces of potatoe flour, which mix with a little milk, and then add to it three glasses of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; set lliese over a moderate stove, stirring constantly ; in about eight minutes pout it into another saucepan, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of powder-sngar, (having previously grated on it the rinds of two lemons), and two eggs ; stir tliem together a minute, and then add the yolks of eggs; take two dozen flat custard rnoul(lS) line them with pulT paste, pour the preparation into them, and bake, them m a moderate oven ; when done i?laze them with line sugar, and serve them hot. Lemon Peel Ratafia o/.—Grate the ye/- wk; rind only of seven or eight lemons; infuse it in three quarts of the be.st bnindy for three weeks, at the end of whicli time, add tliiee quarters of a pound of fine clarified sugar to each quart, let it stand a fortnight longer, then filter and bottle it. 2E