CHE C H E ( 146 ) I much as runs clear. Sweeten with sugur- candy. CHERav JVater.*— Take the stalks and stones from two pounds of very ripe cherries, crush them in an eartlien pan, with lialf a pint of water : then put tliem into a fine sieve, and let tliein drain. With tlie liquid mix up eight ounces of sugar; beat it up well with a spoon, and put it into bottles, which must be placed in iced water. Chehrv (Vine.*—To make five pints of this wine, take fifteen pounds of clier- I'ies, and two of currants, bruise tliein together; mix with them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole (the cher- ries, currants, and kernels), into a bar- rel, with a quarter of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel mu.st he quite full; cover the barrel with vine- leaves, and sand above them, and let it stand till it has done working, which will be in about three weeks; then stop it with a bung, and in two months time it may be bottled. Another fVay.—Stone, and take the stalks from red cherries when they begin to ripen ; put them into a glazed pan, and squeeze them to a pulp, either with your hands or a wooden ladle. Let them stand twelve hours to ferment: then put tliem into a linen cloth, and press out the juice, which must remain until the scum rises, then skim it clean; pour it off' gently into a cask, and put to each gallon a pound of loaf-sugar. W'hen it has fer- mented seven or eight days, and is be- come clear, draw itoft'into smaller casks, or you may bottle it. Keep it cool, and in ten or twelve days it will be ripe. CHERVIL.*—Is piincipally used in soups and stuffing, and is generally pre- served with other herbs as follows : take of sorrel, chervil, beet, purslain, and cucumbers, if in season, quantities ac- cording to your liking; wash them well; mince and press them in your band, to squeeze out all the water. Put them into a kettle with water, some butter and salt, and boil tliem until the water is entirely consumed. Then take them out, and when ci'ld, put them into pots; cover them «itli warmed butter. When yotr want to use these herbs, put them into some stock that has very little salt in it. If they are lequired for a farce or gar- nish. boJ them a minute or Itvo in some iiuttei ; thicken with the yolks of eggs and milk ; when so prepared, they may lie served under hard eggs or broiled .fi.'h. For sauce, it must be ch pped small, boded in salt and water, and mi.xed with melted butter. Chervil Cnnw.*—Boil a handful of chervil in a glass of water for half an hour; then stiain and reduce it to two spoonsful ; add half a pint of cream, the same of milk, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, the rind of a lemon, a little coriander and orange-flower water ; boil these half an hour longer: beat up the yolks of six eggs with a small quantity of flour; pour the cream on them; mix them well; strain, and put it into the bain marie. Glaze it with sugar and the salamander. Chervil Sauce. — Put a few mush- rooms, parsley, cliibbol, shalots, two cloves, a bay-leaf, and a few tarragon leaves in some melted butter; let them soak for some time, then add a little broth, white wine, pepper and salt; re- duce it to a proper thickness, but do not skim it; when done, put in some cher- vil, scalded and chopped; heat it all up together. Chervil {Syrup of).* — Put into a warm glass, or glazed earthen vessel, a quart of hot ivater, and five ounces of chervil; place it on hot ashes, (the ves- sel must be very closely stopped). In twelve hours draw off' the infusion, and add to it two pounds of powder-sugar; boil the whole to perls ; take it from the ■ fire, and let it cool before you bottle it. Chervil fFater.— Steep chervil in boiling water until the latter is properly flavoured ; tlien set it by in a cold place for some hours before you want to use it. . Sweeten it to the taste. CHESNUTS.*—Should be placed on : the fire in a pan with holes to loast; first: slitting or cutting a notch in the skins, . to prevent their fljing off'. When done, . serve them in dcsserlon a nankin, as hot : as possible. Some'boil the clie.sHuts in- ■ ■stead of roasting them, as the ^kinsa-e • then cleaner, but the nuts not quite so [ mealy; the better way is to boil ihem in i plenty of water, and when nearly done, I take them out and roast them. Chesxut jB/schi'/s.*—Take six ounces of roasted and skinned chesnuts, a little grated lemon-peel, a pound and a half of powder-sugar, and ten whites of eggs. Pound the chesnuts to a paste, and then heat it up in an earthen pan with the other ingredients; when your pa.ste is of a proper ihitknes.s, take it up with a knife, and lay it on paper, and lorm into biscuits whatever size you pieasc. Bake them in a moderate oven, and when ® jj nice colour take them out. Do not re- N move them Irom the paper till they are |l cold. , , ; Ches.vut Jiread.*—Roast a hum.rco [' fine chesnuts. being carelul not to burn i them; peel them well, and j>ound them with biutcr and double cream ; pass them 1