( 221 ) DUG DUG U J and season the same as for other poul- try ; mix two ({lasses of white wine, \vilh some good cuilis, and boil it some time together to reduce it to a good consist- ence. Serve this sauce in the pie. Ducks, Foeles Sauce Digarade.* — The ducks being singed, drawn, and trussed, as usual, rub the breasts with lemon-juice, and lay them in a stewpan with slices of bacon under and over them, and cook them in a poe/e, but do not Cut them on the fire until about an hour efore dinner. When ready for table, place them on your dish, and pour over tliein the following sauce; three ladies- ful of espagmle travaille, a little pepper, the juice, and part of the rind of a Se- ville orange; give it one boil only before you use it. Ducklings en Purie.*—Truss a cou- ple of dncklings like chickens, and hav- ing made a light farce of white meats and bacon pounded, lettuce, salt, pep- per, &c. fill the ducklings v/ith it, wrap them in slices of bacon, and do them in a pint of stock over a gentle fire. Boil some young pease in veal gravy, add to them shred parsley, sweet herbs,savory, &c.; when done, rub them through a sieve, and serve your ducklings with the puree round them. DUCK d la puree de Lentilles*— Prepare the duck as for poc/es, and hav- ing laid it in a saucepan on slices of ba- con, cover it with the sauce, and a few slices of fillet of veal, with two carrots, three onions, two cloves, a bay leaf, a little thyme, parsley and scallions ; pour on this a ladleful of broth, and leave it for three quarters of an hour or longer, if necessary. When done, dish it, and pour either over or under it, according to its plumpness and delicacy, a puree of len- tils. Ducks Roasted, — Season them with sage and onion shred, pepper and salt; half an hour will roast them. Gravy- sauce or onion sauce. Always stew the sage and onion in a little water, as it pre- vents its eating strong, and takes ofl'the rawness ot them. Ducklings Roasted.—They must not be seasoned ; they will be roasted in ra- ther less than half an hour. Serve with gravy and gooseberry sauce. Ducklings Rolled. — Make a good forcemeat of roasted poultry, cut a good sized duckling in two, bone it, and lay the farce upon it; roHitup, tie slices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little stock, with a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves; when done, squeeze the fat gently out, and wipe the duck clean ; serve with what sauce you please. Duck /Pi'W.—These birds should be fat, the claws small, reddish and supple ; if not fresh, on opening the beak they will smell disagreeable ; the breast and rump should be firm and heavy; the flesh of the hen-bird is the most delicate, though the cock generally fetches the highest price. Pick them dry, cut the wings very close to (he body, take oil the necks, draw and singe them, truss up the legs and skewer them ; and having rubbed them with their livers, spit, and roast them ; take them up with the gravy in, and serve with lemons. Ducks fFild. — The entrails being taken out of the wild ducks, wipe them well with a cloth ; put into the inside a bitofbutter rolled in pepper and salt; when trussed, spit, and roast them quickly for a quarter of an hour, which will be enough, as the gravy should not run out before they are taken up; shake flour and salt over them, and froth them with butter. Put good strong gravy un- der them, and you may serve them with hot port wine in a boat. Duck fFild.— Half roast them ; when they are brought to table slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour over them a little port wine, and stjueeze the juice of an orange or lemon over; add some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, cut up the bird, let it remain over the lamp till done, now and then turning it. D\3CK{fFild) Fillets of, d I’ Orange.*— Take the breasts of four wild ducks with the skins on, and soak them in oil, with salt, pepper, an onion, and some parsley. About an hour before dinner time skewer and tie them on a spit, and roast them for half an hour ; then cut tl’.em in fillets, leaving the skin on ; put these into a little jelly, keep them hot without boil- ing, and when wanted for table, arrange them in a dish, and serve with orange sauce under them. Duck {fFild) Salmis of.*—Cut off the best parts of a couple of roasted wild ducks, and put the rest of the moat into a mortar, with six shalots, a little parsley, some pepper, and a bay-leaf, pound all these ingredients together well, and then put them into a saucepan with four latlles- lull of espagnole, half a glass of white wine, the same of broth, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce these to half, strain them, and having laid the pieces on a dish, cover them with the above: keep the whole hot, not boiling, until wanted for table. 'DvcK{fFild.) Salmisof, au Chasseur.* —Cut the meat of two wild ducks into small pieces, lay them in salt and (lep- per, and pour on them four spoonsful of olive-oil, and half u glass of Bordeau.x