B 1 S ( Co ) BIS Biscuits (jI/«scow.v).* — Take ptreen Icmoii-peel, orange-flower inartnalade, and apricot marmalade, of each four drachms; four whites of eggs, and three ounces of powder-sugar; Whip the whites to a snow, pound the marmalades and lemon-peel to a paste, and pass it through a sieve, then add the eggs and sugar, mixing them well together, put them in paper cases (buttered) and bake them. When sutlicienily done, glaze them with powder-sugar and white of egg, and decorate them with nrmpareils. Biscuits {Naples).*—V\x\, three quar- ters of a pound of fine flour to a pound of fine sifted sugar; sift both together three times, then add six eggs beaten well, and a spoonful of rose-water; when the oven is nearly hot, bake them, but not too wet. Biscuits, Niaujfes.*—Make some puff paste, roll it out two or three times more than usual, then spread it in two square layers, about tlie thickness of a crown- piece, put one of them on a baking-plate; mix with some cream pdtissiere, a hand- ful of pistachios pounded, two bitter, and a handful of sweetalmonds, blanched and pounded, a little green of spinach, powder-sugar, orange-flower water, and two eggs; spread this equally over the puS-paste for an inch thick; cover it with the other square of paste; ilorez and prick it, and mark it in divisions of tliree inches long, by one and a half wide; strew over powder-sugar, orange-flowers pra- lin6e, and sweet almonds cut in slips; bake them in a moderate oven, and when done divide them according to the marks. Trim and serve them as an entremets. Biscuit, the Nuns.—Take the whites of twelve eggs, and beat them to a froth ; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and beatftbem with the froth of the whites ofeggs, asit rises; then take the yolks, and two pounds of fine sugar and beat them well together, then mix the al- monds with the sugar and eggs; then add half a pound of flour, with the peel of four lemons grated, and some citron sjired small; put the composition in little cake-pans, and bake them in a quick oven, and when they are coloured, turn them on tins to harden the bot- toms ; but before you set them in the oven again, sift on them some double refined sugar. Let the pans be buttered, and fill them halfway. Biscuit d la Parisienne.*—Make a biscuit as directed for that Iced d la Boyafe, but bake it in a plain mould of seven inches diameter; when cold, cut it about an inch from the edge all round, to the depth of three inches ; take away the top and a great part of the crumb ; then having prepared the icing (as therein mentioned) colour it green with spinach juice ; mask the whole surface of your biscuit with this, and place it in the oven a minute to dry. When wanted for table, fill the interior of the biscuit with fromage havurois of pistachios, on which place a very white sultune. This kind of biscuit may be filled with any oxher fromage bovurois, or a whipped cream, if you like it better. The colour of the icing may also be changed accord- ing to your fancy. Biscuit Paste.*—Break a quarter of a hundred of eggs, separate the yolks and whites ; to the former put two pounds of pounded and sifted sugar, and add vanilla, or any other aromatic ingredient you please; beat them with a wooden spoon, whisk the whites until pretty firm, and then put them, together; mix in a pound and a half of meal by degrees. Butter moulds, and put in your paste; sprinkle sugar over, and bake in a cool oven. Biscuits of Preserved Fruits,or Stveei- meats.—Take dried preserved fruit, such as apricots, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange flower marmalade, pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; mix the yolks of new laid eggs, and fine powder sugar therewith, till it comes to a paste, but not too liquid, bake upon paper in a moderate oven. Biscuits (Princess Amelia).*—Put the whites of twelve eggs into an earthen pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and add to them eight ounces of double re- fined sugar, ponnded and sifted; having mixed them, put in three ounces offlour, and three of powdersugar sifted, the grat- ed rind of one or two lemons and half a cof- fee cup of orange flower water, stir them well with a wooden spoon, but take care not to spoil the snow; drop them on paper of a larger size than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to a clear brown in a moderate oven. Take them from the paper while hot. Biscuit Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over three Naples biscuits grated ; cover it close ; when cold add the yolks of four eggs, two whites, nus- meg, a little brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and some sugar. Boil it an hour in a b.isin. Biscuits, the Queen’s.—Take a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a naif of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, and the yelks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- ander seeds beaten small at discretion ; mix these well together, and make them into a soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay this paste on paper, or in crusts about two inches broad, and four inches