T u R. ( 478) T U R and thread, and serve with any sauce you please. Tuiikev {Leqs of) Provence Fashion. —Take the legs of a roasted turkey, put them into a sievypaii with a glass of wine, the same fiuantity of stock, pepper, anti salt; a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a dove of garlic; simmer about an hour, to reduce the sauce ; make a ragoflt with a sweetbread, chopped mushrooms, parsley, slialots, and a bit of butter; soak this a little while, then add a little stock and cullis, and boil it some time : when ready, add a pounded anchovy, cliopped capers, and a handful of olives, stoned ; warm together without boiling; you must add pepper and salt, according to taste: the sauce should be sharp and relishing. Serve it upon the legs. Turkey (Legs of) en Surprise.—Bone a couple of undressed legs of turkies quite to the end, and fill the inside with a farce made of livers, sweetbreads, mushrooms, parsley, slialots, pepper, and salt, the yolks of two eggs, grated bacon, and a little nutmeg; sew them up, and braise them with slices of bacon and lemon. .Serve with a Spanish sauce. TonKEY,^^w^s in Chipolata.*—Bone, and trim some turkey wings, and put them into a stewpan with a little butter ; set them on a fierce fire, and in a few minutes add a dessert spoonful of flour, two ladiesful of stock, a bay-leaf, and some whole pepper; blanch a little streaked bacon, cut it into small square pieces, put them to the ragofit, with some champignons, parsley and scallions; when about tnree parts done, skim it,and throw in four and twenty small onions (all the same size), peeled, some blanched chesnuts, and a few sausages. When the ragoflt is sufficiently done, take out the parsley, scallions, and bay-leaf; place the wings on a dish, and pour the gravy, thickened with the yolks of two eggs, over it, and serve. Turkey (fVingsand Legsof), Glazed. —Cut oil" the wings and legs of a turkey (if a large one the wings alone will be sufficient for a dish); cut them pretty large from the breast, lard them all over, or lard only one to please dillerent pa- lates ; braze them on a slow fire, with slices of veal and ham, a bundle of sweet herbs, some cloves, whole pepper, salt, and stock; when done, skim the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and finish it like a fricundeau. Turkey fFings, Haricot of,*—Take the wings of some young turkies, trim and bone them; make a light roux, in which fry the wings lightly ; put them into a stewpan with some rich broth, with parsley and green onions, skim it care- fully, and when about three parts done, put m some turnips, cut into round pieces,an inch and half long,and browned when done, drain the wings, place them on a dish en couronne., and the turnips in the centre. Turkey fFings au SofctV.*—Toss up as many turkey wings as you wish in some butter; then add to ihem eight ladiesful of veloute, a spoonful of stock, a bay-leaf, whole pepper, one clove, a hunch of parsley, and green onions^ let these boil, skimming carefully. When about three parts done, take off all the fat; then reduce the sauce till very thick, take out the parsley, onions, bay-leaf, and clove ; put in a liaison ol three yolks of eggs, and an ounce of butter; put the wings on a dish, pour the sauce over them; as soon as they are quite cold, cover each_ wing well with the sauce; roll them in bread-crumbs, then dip them in beaten eggs, cover them again with crumbs, and fry them nicely ; drain and serve v/ith fried parsley. Turkey Potilts. — These should be drawn in the same manner as a turkey, except that the head should be left on, and turned under the pinions, with tke bill pointing outwards. Turkey-poult, en Mayonnaise.* — Take a cold roasted turkey-poult: cut it up, take off'all the skin, and put the pie- ces into a pan, with a little oil, tarragon vinegar, a little minced ravignite. salt aad pepper. When they are well soak- ed, lay the pieces on a dish, the inferior ones first; pour nmayon7iaiseover them; garnish with hard eggs, fillets of ancho- vies, gherkins, capers, and a cordon of jelly round the edge. Turkey-poult, Peau de Goret.*— Prepare a fine turkey-poult in the usual way; rub it over, and baste it with oil, like a sucking pig, whilst roasting : make it a nice colour, sprinkle salt over, and serve it with a sauce a la Liable. TURNIPS, Boiled.—Vare them thick ; when boiled, squeeze them well, to tho- roughly drain them from the water; mash them smooth, heat them with a lit- tle cream, add a piece of butter, a little flour, pepper, and salt. Turnips, Purie qf.*—Take a dozen large turnips, slice and put them into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter ; set them on a fierce fire, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon : when of a nice clear colour, add a ladicful of veloute, and another of veal blond ; re- duce it to the proper consistence; skim it well, and] rub it through a bolting cloth. Turnip Sauce. — Pare four turnips, and let them simmer gently in a little