I! I! , PAR i; and put the pieces into a stewpan, with |l three dessert-spoonsful of olive oil, half a i glass of red wine, a little salt, pepper^ p the juice of a lemon, and some of the II peel; toss the joints up in tliis sauce, and ' when sufficiently done, serve them. ! PARTniDOES fSafmiso/) Cold.*—Make ' your salmis as usual, but instead of I straining the sauce over the pieces, put ’ it into another saucepan, add to it three ' spoonsful of jelly, reduce, and strain it I again, and let it cool; when quite cold, dip your pieces into it, one at a time, and arrange them on a dish, the breasts :' at the top; decorate your dish with jelly, and serve. Partridges {Table) Salmis of.* — If you wish to make a salmis at table, cut up your birds, and lay the pieces in a I silver chafing dish, add to them salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel grated, a few shalots minced, (pounded garlic if desired), and some raspings strewed I over the top; let it simmer about ten minutes, and then serve. Partridges in a Sahnis or Hash.— Take a brace of partridges that have been well roasted, and very neatly cut off the wings, iegs, and breasts; put them into a stewpan, and put the backbone into another stewpan, with a bit of lean ham, a small onion, a few stalks of pars- ley, a few peppercorns, one clove of gar- lic, a glass of sherry, a ladleful of good stock, and a ladleful of plain sauce ; let the whole boil over a gentle fire to the consistence of sauce in general ; this done, squeeze it through a tammy, to the legs and wings which were put into the other stewpan; put it to the fire to be very hot, then add the juice of half a lemon, a liaison oi the yolk of one egg, and a tablerspoonful of cream ; shake the whole well together, lay the partridges on the dish, and serve it to table. Partridge Saule.*—Having prepared a partridge as for la Tartare, put a good piece of butter into a frying-pan, lay in the bird, breast downwards; set it on a brisk fire, strew salt and pepper over, and when it is firm to the touch, turn and do the other side. Serve with a reduced espagnole, and half the juice of a lemon. Partridge (Scallops of).*—Cut the large and small fillets of four partridges into scallops, sprinkle them with salt, and fry them lightly in some butter; then having drained them, take out the butter, and put into the pan three spoons- ful of fumet of game, and two of ullc- mande\ give them a boil, and put the scallops into it, with some sliced truffles or mushrooms, a small piece of butter. PAR and lemon juice. Dish them with cro- quettes of game round, glaze, and serve. Partridges (Souffle of).*—Cut off the meat from some cold roasted partridges, chop and pound it well with some veloute and butter ; season it well, add the yolks of four or five eggs, and rub the pncrce through a sieve into a basin. Whip the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, which mix lightly with the pieree ; put the whole carefully into a dish, and bake it. Lay a paper over the top to prevent its burning. Twenty minutes are sufficient to do it properly ; it should be served the moment it is taken out of the oven. Partridge d la St. Laurent.*—Hav- ing picked and otherwise prepared your partridges, cut off' the claws, and truss the legs within the body near the rump, (without however making a large hole) ; then spread out the birds, and beat them on the breasts in order to give them as much surface as possible ; sprinkle them well with salt and pepper, and lay them breast downwards in a pan, in which is a little oil, set it on the fire, and when one side is done, turn them; about half an hour before dinner, broil them very slowly; take two ladiesful of espusnole, the juice of a lemon and a hall, some of the peel, a little salt and pepper;_ give this one boil, and when the partridges are done, serve with this sauce over therh. Partridges d la Sultane.*—Take, four partridges, from one of which cut all the meat, remove the sinews, &c., and pound it with some calf’s udder, mush- rooms, and anchovy, add a little con- somme, and stuff' the three remaining birds with ih\s farce; lard them with anchovies and mushrooms placed alter- nately ; roast them before a slow fire, basting them either with consomme or stock; brown them nicely, sprinkle salt and pounded spice over, and serve them hot. Partridges en Surprise.*—T.ike three very fresh partridges, clean and bone them all but the large bone of the leg, and leave on the claws; lay them open on a cloth, season with salt and pep- per, and spread over them a thin layer of partridge/arce-ewfe,- fillup the bodies, witli a cold salpicon ; roll and sew them into their original forili, truss the claws outwards; put them into a pan with a little butter, and brown the breasts ; let them cool, and then lard the breasts. Break the bones, and nut them into a stewpan, with a thin slice of ham, two onions, a clove, a carrot, a little mace, a well seasoned bouquet, r glassof Madeira, a spoonful of consomme, and some grated ( 381 ) I