MUL ( 336 ) MUF elpy and scallions, thicken with the yolk of an egg beaten up with cream, add a small quantity of powder-sugar; serve them with a crust prepared as for mush- rooms. Mobels in Gravy.*—Having cut, well washed, and drained your morels, put tliem into a saucepan with oil, salt, and pepper; let them boil for half an hour; then add some veal gravy and a little wine; then simmer them till sufficiently done; serve them with the sauce, if the latter be too thick squeeze lemon-juice into it. Mobels to Keep. — They should be dried slowly, put into paper bags, and kept in a dry place. Morels, Stuffed.*—Choose, the largest and most round-shaped morels, and hav- ing washed and drained, dry them in a cloth; fill each with a little fine farce. and stew them with slices of bacon and veal; when nearly done, pour on them a little veal gravy. Serve very hot. Morels and Triffes. — Morels and truffles are used for thickening soups and sauces, and to give them a fine fla- vour. Wash half an ounce of each, then let them simmer a few minutes in water, and add them, with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. MOUNTAIN IVine.—Take somevery fine Malaga raisins, pick out all the stalks, and chop them very fine, and to every ten pounds of the raisins put two gallons of water. Let them steep three weeks, stirring them frequently during that time ; then squeeze out the liquor, and put it into a vessel that will just hold it, but be careful not to stop it till it has done hissing; then bung it up close, and it will be fit for use in about six months. MUFFINS.—Mix two pounds of flour with a couple of eggs, two ounces of but- ter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonsful of yeast; beat it thorouglily, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn them, when done, on one side. Muffins.—Take two quarts of warm warm water, twospoonsful of yeast, three iKtunds of flour ; heat it well for half an nour, and lot it stand an hour or tivo; bake them on an iron baking-stove (rub it well over with mutton-suet as often as they are laid on); as soon as they begin to colour, turn them; they will be suf- ficiently baked when coloured on both sides. AIuFFiN Pudding with dried Cherries. 7'ake a pint and a half of milk, add to it a few coriander-seeds, a bit of lemon- peel, sugar according t'l taste, and boil them together for ten minutes; then put four muffins into a pan, sti-ain the milk over them, and when they are cold, mash them with a wooden spoon ; add half a gill of brandy, half a pound of dried cher- ries, a little grated nutmeg, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded extremely fine, and six eggs well beaten. Mix all together and boil in a basin, or bake it in a dish with paste all round. MULBERRIES, Preserved. — Boil three quarters of a pound of sugar to grand perle ; then put to it a pound of mulberries, stir them in carefully, with- out letting them boil; then take the pan by the handle and roll the fruit about in the sugar for a few minutes; pour them into a basin, and let tliem stand ; the next day drain ofi the sugar, boil it to the above-mentioned degree; add the fruit, and proceed as above, and then pour it into puts ; do not cover them till quite cold. Mulberries, to preserve Dry,—Your mulberries must not be too dry, butmust look rather a reddish green, and taste tart; prepare the same quantity of sugar au souffle A6 of fruit; put in the mulber- ries and let them boil; the sugar must be first clarified with mulberry juice in- stead of water ; when they have boiled, take the pan from the fire, skim it, and set it in a stove till next day ; then take them out, drain them from the syrup, and put them up in boxes for use. Mulberries, Ratafia of.*—Take two gallons of brandy, a quart of water, three pounds and a half of sugar, three pounds of mulberries, half a pound of red cur- rants, the same of raspberries, and half a drac hm of mace. Take the seeds from tlie_ currants, mix, and crush all the fruits, the juice from which, with the mace, infuse in the brandy fifteen or eighteen days. Dissolve the sumf in the water, mix the syrup with the brandy, filter and bottle it. Mulberry Syrup.—Put some mulber- ries into a jug, tie a paper over it, and then put it up to the neck in a kettle of water; let it boil; as the liquor rises from the mulberries, pouritofl, strain it, and to one pint of the liquor put one pound of loaf sugar ; set it over a slow fire, boil it gently till it becomes about the consistence of treacle; then take it oil'and bottle it. Mulberries, Syrup of.* — Take ns many mulberries as will yield three pints of juice, which put into a preserving- pan with three pints of water; boil until this quantity is reduced to one pint; then lay the fruit on a sieve to drain. Cl trlfy three pounds of sugar, teil it to bouilfc ; then add the mulberry-juice ; give them one boil, and skim them. Pour the