( 18S ) C R E C R A I again, and keep them stirring; moisten the whole with good stock, and add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, scallions, champignons, truflles, and crusts of bread ; simmer it, take out the veal, put to it the pounded cray-lish, and then strain it. To make this cullis maigre, substitute butler for the bacon, and moisten it with fish broth. Cray-fish (Cullis of, au gras).* — Takeabout thirty cray-fish of a moderate size, and after several times washing them, boil them in water; then pick them and put the shells aside, pound them and twelve sweet almonds and the cray-fish well in a mortar ; then take a fillet of veaj and a piece of ham, cut them into slices with an onion, and add some slices of carrots and parsnips; when the whole has taken colour, add some melted bacon and a little flour; let it sim- mer, stirring it well; then moisten the whole with some good stock or broth. Add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, young onions, mushrooms, truffles, crusts of bread, and let it simmer; then take out the veal, dilute the contents of the mortar with the juice, and strain the whole through a sieve. Cray-fish ( Cullis of aumaigre).—In- stead of melted bacon, substitute butter; let whatever you make it of be only half browned, and moisten it with good fish liquor; but, of course, a cullis au maigre can never equal the excellence of a cullis au gras. Cray-fish, Potted.— Having boiled the fish in salt and water, and picked out all the meat, sprinkle them with spice, pepper, and salt, and then pound it to a fine paste, adding a little butter; put it into pots, and cover them with clarified butter. Crab is potted in the same way. Cray-fish d la Proveni^ale.*—Boil your fish in equal quantities of wine and water, with salt, lemon, sweet herbs ; shell them, remove the small claws, and simmer them for half an hour in w hatever sauce you please. Serve them with the sauce poured over, and around them. Cray-fish, au Restaurant (Jlace.*— Boil your fish in good broth, with two slices of veal, cut in dice; and when done, put them in your dish ; add to the liquor some veal or fowl gravy, and reduce it to a jelly, which pour over the cray-fish, put them in a cool place, that the jelly may set. Serve, cold. Cray-fish, Roasted.*—Vai the fish to soak in hot wine, butdo not boil them; when well drained, stui! them with sweet herbs, butter, salt, pepper, and basil; fasten them with skewers on a spit, and roast them before a gentle fire; baste them with their own dripping or boiling wine. Cray-fish, Salad o/.*—Boil cray-fish as usual, take them from the shells, put them into a salad-bowl with anchovies, artichoke-bottoms, and seasoned like ^ other salads. i Cray-fish Soup. — Put some eels, 1 flounders, &c. into cold water, set them j on the fire, and when near boiling, skim, j and add to it onions, carrots, parsley, and whole pepper. Take about fifty cray-fish, and having taken them from their shells, put them into the fish-broth, also the small claws and tails, finely pounded ; let them boil for an hour, then strain it oft’; add some crusts of bread, and the spawn of a lobster pounded. Cray-fish Soup.—Boil six whitings, and a large eel, with as much water as will just cover them; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves ; boil them to a mash. Pick fifty cray-fisb, pound the shells, and a small roll, but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs; put this liquor over the shells, on a sieve; then pour the other soup clear from the sediment; chop a lobster, and add this i to it, with a quart of good beef gravy ; t and also the tails of tbe cray-fish, and some flour and butter, and season ac- cording to your taste. CREAM, d l’Anglaise.*—'Take two yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, two ounces of candied orange and lemon-peel, five ounces of blanched pistachio nuts, beat these all up in a mortar ; add to them a pint of good milk, and boil them over a gentle fire, stirring it frequently to prevent its burning. When done, add five or si.t drops of orange-flower water, pour the whole on a dish, and set it over the fire till tbe edges are brown ; sprinkle sugar over, and salamander it. Cream, au Bain-marie.* — Mix up whatever ingredient of which the cream is to be made, with eggs and sugar; for the proportions, see the respective ar- ticles ; strain them through a fine sieve, f and pour the preparation into a mould [ lightly buttered within side. Put this I mould into a large saucepan, with a suf- I ficient quantity of boiling water to reach t witliin an inch of the mould; place the saucepan on hot'ashes, cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; renew the fire underneath occasionally, so as to k«p the water at the same temperature, that is, nearly, but never quite, boiling for an hour and a half; then, if the cream ts properly set, which may be known by