CHE ( 140 CUE some clipese in very thin slices, and rub some buiter ovj;r the bottom ol a plate, lay the cheese upon it, and pour in two or three spoonsful of white wine, and a little mustard; cover it with another plate, and set it on a chafing-dish of coals two or three minutes, then stir it till it is well mixed ; when it is mixed enough, lay it upon the bread, and brown it with a sa- lamander. Toasted, or a Scotch Rabbit.— Toast a slice of bread on both sides, of a tine light brown colour, butter it, toast a slice of cheese on both sides, and serve it on the bread. Cheese Toasted, ora Welch Rabbit. —Take a slice of bread and toast it on both sides; toast a slice of cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and with a hot salamander brown it, and rub some mus- tard over it. Cheesecakes.*—Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk; when turned, drain the curd through a coarse sieve, gently break the curd, and rub in a quar- ter ol a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white Of one, half an ounce of almonds, lialf bitter and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, with two spoonsful of rose water, four ounces of curr.ints ; put in the curd, and mix all together. Cheesecakes.*—One quart of milk, and three dessert spoonsful of rice-flour, six eggs, leave out three of the whites, and currants to your taste. Cheesecakes.—Put some curd from the dairy into the mortar, with a hit of fresh butter, a little salt, the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one; rasp the peel of a lemon over some sugar, and put this also into the mortar; add four macaroons, and a bit of sugar; pound the whole together, and when very fine, take it out of the mortar; butter any quantity of tartlet moulds, according to your company, spread some pufl-paste over the dresser, cut with a round cutter, as many pieces as you have moulds, and put a spoonful of the preparation to each, bake next in a pretty liot oven, and serve up very hot with powdered sugar. Sometimes you may glaze them with the Halaraander. Cheesecakes.*—Take one gallon of milk and turn it, but do not let the curd be too hard ; put it in a sieve to drain, mix in a quarter of a pound of fresh but- ter, half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, six eggs, leave out three of the whites, and one nutmeg; make a putr paste and put in the mixture. You may add currants if you please. Cheesecakes.—Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounceof cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight, and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy; put a light thin puff paste in the patty- pans, and three parts fill them. Cheesecakes.—Add three quarts of new milk to a gill of rennet, let it stand in a warm_ place, and when thorougidy set, drain it well, and mix into it with the hand half a pound of fresh butter, sweeten according to your taste with pounded sugar, add a few currants wash- ed and picked, a little citron, candied orange and lemon-peels cut into small •slices, and one ounce of sweet almonds pounded fine. Beat up with the mixture three eggs, line the pans with puff paste, fill them with the preparation, and bake them in a brisk oven. Cheesecakes.—A pint of cream, half a pound of butter, six eggs, two spoons- ful of grated bread, as much cinnamon and mace pounded as will lay upon a shilling, three spoonsful of sugar, five of currants, nearly two of brandy; beat the eggs well, then mix all together in a deep pewter dish, set it on a stove; stir it one way, till it becomes a soft curd ; when cold, put it into tins with pufl- paste. Cheesecakes. — Boil two quarts of cream, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and put them to the cream before you set it on the fire, let it boil till it comes to a curd; blanch some almonds, and pound them with orange-flower water, and put them into the cream, adding some Naples biscuits and green citron, shred small; sweeten with sugar that has musk plums ground in it. and bake them in a moderate oven. Cheesecakes, Commoit. — Beat eight eggs well, while a quart of milk is on ilte fire, and when' it boils, put in the eggs, and stir them till they come to a curd ; then pour it out, and when it is cold, put in a little salt, two spoonsful of rose- water. and three quarters of a pound of currants well washed ; put it into pufl- paste, and bake it. If you use tin ;>atties to bake in, butter them, or you will not be able to take them out; but if you bake them in class or china, only an upper crust will be necessary, ns you will not want to take them out when you send them to table. Cheesecakes, Cottrf.—Boil a bit of butter in a little water and a little salt: thicken it with as much flour as it will take, stirring it on the fire constantly, until it becomes quite a p.aste ; then mix