IIA n ( 282 ) H A 11 leg, the body, and another hind leg; do the same witli the fore legs ; lay the head rather back; put a skewer in at the mouth, through the back of the head and between the shoulders ; put in the stuf- fing, and tie it round with a string, jtassing it over tlie legs to keep them in their places: the hare is then ready for roasting. See Roasted Hare. Haue {to Boil a).—Takeja marrow-bone, with a good deal of beef on it, and a piece of bacon, and a hare; put some salt and water, then boil them ; when the hare is nearly done, take it out; bruise some pease, boil them in the broth; take out the bone of beef, put in the hare, and boil again till the pease are done, then strain, and put the puree aside ; lay the hare in a dish, pour the pur^e over it, and serve it. Haue d la Broche.*—Your hare being properly prepared for dressing, set it on a hot stove to make the meat rather firm, before you lard it: when you remove it from the stove, dip your hand in the blood, and pass it over the back and legs ; then lard it to the end of the legs, leav- ing about an inch between the loin and the leg : then roast it (an hour is suffi- cient), and serve it with the following sauce : mince the liver very small whilst raw, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with a few shalots, parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, a tea-spoonful of flour, one glass of white wine, and two of broth: stir this sauce till it boils, add salt ana pepper, then reduce it to nearly half; rub it lightly through a sieve into the tureen. Hare, Botidin of.* — To make this dish the fillets only must be used—take away all the nerves and sinews, and then pound the meal; rub it through a que- nelle sieye ; I'oll it up, and set it aside. proceed in the same manner with a calf’s udder; soak the crumb of a small loaf in broth, and when soft, squeeze out all the moisture, and pound the bread, and rub it through a quenelle sieve. Then take equal portions of these articles, and pound them together; then mix with them some dried sweet herbs in powder, a little spice, salt and pepper. Then according to the quantity of farce you have, put three or four yolks, and one white of egg, so as to make it easy to work up: flour the table, put the farce on it, and roll it up into the botidin, and poach it in boiling water, like the que- nelles. Dip it in butter, bread it, and about a quarter of an hour before serving, broil it over a moderate fire; pass n salamander over to colour it; serve it quite dry. It may also be served without poaching, in which case it must be glazed and laid on afumet of game. If you have not a calf’s udder to pound with it, fresh butter is a good substitute ; take care, however, to use double the quantity of it. Hare_ d la Bourgeoise.*—Skin, and cut a hare in pieces; lard them with large lardoiis, rolled in parsley, scallions, gar- lic, (all shred fine), and salt; stew them, with half a glass of brandy and two ounces of butter, over a slow fire: when nearly done, and the sauce partly con- sumed, pour in the blood, (having pre- served it for that purpose); keep it on the fire till this is quite hot, but not boiling ; then take out the hare, and lay the pieces on a dish so closely, that it may look like one ; let it stand till cold, and then serve. Hare Ca/ee in Jelly. — Bone a hare, take all the sinews fiom the meat, and then pound it with an equal quantity of beef; add mushiooms, shalots, (garlic, if you please), sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, pickled cucumbers, and bacon, cut into dice, and two or three eggs; mix all this together. Line a mould with thin slices of bacon, put in the hare, &c.; cover it with bacon, and bake it in a moderate oven : when cold, turn it out, place it on a dish, and put over it ajelly made as follows: take a pound and a half of scrag of veal, a slice of ham, two or three cloves, sweet herbs, a carrot or two, shalots, two bay-leaves, an ounce of isinglass; stew these in some beef broth till reduced to a jelly ; add some lemon- juice ; strain first through a sieve, and then through a jelly-bag: when cold, pour it over the cake, and serve. Hare au C/ievreuil.* — Take a fine hare, skin, and cut off the head and shoulders; beat it flat, and carefully cut the skin from the back and most pro- minent parts of the rump, which places lard witli small pieces of fat bacon, pre- viously soaked in vinegar and water, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay-leaf, garlic, tvhole pepper, and salt; let the hare lay in this for two days, then spit it; baste it well while roasting. When done, place it on a dish, and set it in the oven while you glaze the larded parts: reduce two spoonsful of tarramn vine- gar, and live or six spoonsful of plain sauce; when it boils, mix in a little glaze, a piece of butter, and the juice of half a lemon; pour this sauce round the hare, and serve it. Harr en Civet.*—Make a rou.r. in which put rather more butter than usual; when about three parts done, put m some pieces of streaked bacon, give them a few