! .1 i I M U T ( 345 ) M U T chovy-liciuor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. When tho- roughly mixed, put all into a little pot, and use it by rolling it into little balls, or of a sausage shape, and fry them. A little slialot, or garlic> is a great im- provement. „ . , „ Mutton Were/) Roas/ed.—Serve with onion sauce. You may, if you choose, broil the blade-bone. Mutton (Shonldei' of) Baked.*—Lt^ru a shoulder of mutton with streaked ba- con, put it into an earthen stewpan pro- portioned to the size of the joint of meat, with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two cloves, half a bay-leaf and some basil; add about a quarter of a pint of water or stock (stock is tlie best), some salt and pepper; put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an oven. AVhen the meat is done, strain the sauce through a sieve, and skim it, squeezing the vegetables so as to make a pui^e' to thicken your sauce : serve tlie sauce with the meat. Mutton (Shoulder of), Broiled.—Take a shoulder of mutton that has hung some days, lard and braise it with the usual seasoning; when nearly done, take it out, mix some sweet herbs shred small, witli grated bread; cover your mutton with tills, lay it on the gridiron, and broil it slowly, moistening it occa- sionally, with a little of the braise liquor. When quite done, dish it, serve with a cullis and vinegar, or verjuice. Mutton {Shoulder of)d la Mhie- houlde.*—Stew a shoulder of mutton with a little stock, a hunch of parsley, and young onions, a clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, some thyme, basil, onions, carrots, pepper and salt; as soon as the mutton IS done, take it out of the stewpan, drain and put it in the dish you intend to serve in; pour over it a thick sauce, made with two spoonsful of cullis, a little flour and butter, and the yolks of three eggs thickened over the fire; then strew grated bread over the mutton, 'and baste it carefully with the fat of the stew, browning the surface with a hot aalaman- der. Serve with a clear shalot sauce, or simply with a little gravy, pepper and salt. Mutton {Shoulder of), with Onions Glacees.* — Bone a plump shoulder of mutton to the shank bone ; lard the in- terior with seasoned bacon, add salt and Eer; roll it up in the shape of a bal- , tie it, and braise it (bones also) for three hours and a half; then untie and place it in a dish ; glaze, and serve it with glazed onions, and a reduced espag- nole. Mutton {Shoulder of), d Id Parme.— Braise a shoulder of mutton ; then take some rice, boiled quite soft in broth, lay it pretty thickly on a dish, place the mut- ton on it; mix dry currants with the remainder of the rice, cover your meat with it; strew grated Parmesan cheese over the whole, and set it in a moderate oven ; when of a nice colour, take it out, and serve with a clear sauce- Mutton {Shoulder (f), with Rice.^ Take a shoulder of mutton, and half boil it; then put it in a stewpan, with two quarts of mutton gravy, a quarter of a pound of rice, a tea-spoonful of mush- room powder, with a little beaten mace, and let it stew till the rice is tender ; then take up the mutton, and keep it hot; put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it well round the pan, and let it boil a few minutes; lay the mutton in the dish, and serve it over the rice. Mutton (Shoulder of) en Saucisse.*— Bone a shoulder of mutton ; spread it upon a board, and put over it about the thickness of a crown piece with veal forcemeat, and over that some pickled gherkins, and ham, cut in thin slices; spread another layer of forcemeat over the ham and gherkins, merely to prevent their falling olf; then roll up the meat; wrap it very tight in a linen cloth, and stew it with a little stock, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, a clove of gar- lic, three cloves, some onions, carrots, parsnips, pepper and salt. When the meat is (lone, skim and strain the sauce. Add a spoonful of cullis, if the sauce is too thin, and serve it over the mutton. Mutton {Shoulder of) Stewed with Oysters.—Let it liang for some days, then salt it well for two days; bone it, and sprinkle itvvith pepper and a bit of mace pounded ; lay some oysters over, and roll the meat up tight, and tie it. Stew it in a little water, with an onion, and a few pepper corns, until it is quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, an(l some oysters stewed in it; thicken it with some floiirand butter, and when the tape is taken off the mutton, pour this sauce over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan closely covered. Mutton {Slices of) en Chevrenil.— Cut twelve tliin slices of mutton neatly, and Urd them with bacon ; letthem soak in vinegar mixed with apices, a bunch of parsley, and an onion cut in slices, for three days; when you wish to u.sc the meat, cook it in a thick sauce till of a good colour, and serve it with a sauce d la poivrade. Mutton (SUcesof) with Cream.*—Cnt a roasted loin of mutton into slices, which put into a stewpan ; chop up some 211