( ^6 ) PEA PEA it some brandy, (tliiee-fourths of the quantity of tlie syrup); run the mixture tlirpuKh a bag, put it to the pears, and cork tne bottles well. Pears Candied—are done like apri- cots. Pears (Compote of),^— Take some good sized pears, cut them in halves, and put them into boiling water; when soft, change them into cold water, in which squeeze a little lemon-juice. Boil some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well from the water, and then put tliem into the syrup; boil together until the pears are sufficiently done; skim, and place them in_ the compolier. A little Bur- gundy wine and prepared cochineal will give the compote a red colour. Pears {Compote of) a. la Bonne Femme.*— Choose your fruit carefully, take off the tops, and trim the tails, wash and drain them well; then put them into a skillet with sugar, cinnamon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, and some water. Set them on a slow fire, taking care to skim them. When sufficiently done, they will look wrinkled. Ibid. Red.*—Peel your fruit, and put it into a well glazed pipkin, with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, sugar to the taste, and a little water; put in also a pewter spoon; cover the pipkin close, and set it on hot ashes. Wlien done, the pears will be of a fine reil colour. Pears to compound.*—Take a dozen large pears, coddle them ; when tender, take them out and lay them in cold water, pare and cut them in halves ; take out the cores, put them in syrup made thus :—Two pounds and a half of sugar to three pints of water, a little lemon-peel pared very thin, boiled in them, and a little cochineal bruised and put into a muslin-hag ; cover them, boil them quick till they are tender and of a good colour ; when cold, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons. Pear Cream.—Take a dozen of jargo- nels (or any other mellow pears), peel, core, and cut them in quarters, put them in the tammy, and mash them well with a wooden spoon ; liien put to them a little clarified sugar cold, the juice of three lemons, with isinglass as cool as it can he without settling ; then ruh the whole through the tammy, and immediately set it in one large or several small moulds, with ice round them. Pears, Drfci/.—These arc done in the same manner us apples. Pears 6Vi7/<;a-.*—Pot some fine baking pears on a fiercely hcat»d stove, till the peel is well browned, then throw them into cold water; clean them thoroughlj. put them into a skillet with clnnlicd sugar, cinnamon, and a little water 1 when sufficiently tender, place them in the cempotier. Pear Ice.*—Take any kind of pear you may prefer, let them be quite ripe, and having pared and cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little water, set it on the fire; when the fruit is quite soft, rub It through a sieve ; to each pound of the pulp put three- quarters of a pound of sugar, boiled to petit lisse, and the juice of two lemons: mix them well, and freeze in the usual manner. (See lee.) Pears, to Keep.*—Choose the sound- est pears, peel, and cut them into quar- ters, take out the pips, put the pieces into bottles, which place in the bain- marie. If the pears are intended for the dessert, once boiling is sufficient; but il for cooking, they should boil up five or six times. Should the fruit thus bot- tled have fallen from the tree instead of having been gathered, they will require a quarter of an hour’s boiling. Pear Marmalade.*—Take six pounds of small pears and four pounds of sugar; put the pears into a saucepan with a little water, set it on the fire ; when the fruit is soft, take them out, pare, quarter, and core them ; as you do this, throw each piece into cold water, in another sauce- pan, and when all are done, set them on the fire. As soon as they are sufficiently soft, rub them through a sieve, and hav- ing in the meantime clarified and boiled the sugar iopetit (isse, pour the syrup to the pulp, set it on the fire, and stir them together until the marmalade is of the proper consistence ; then take it off, put It into pots, and when cold, tie them down. Pears Preserved* — Take care in making this preserve that the fruit be not too ripe ; they are in a fit state as soon as tlie pips are black. Set the pears on the fire in a sufficient quantity of water to cover them; take them off when quite soft, and throw them into cold water; pare them lightly, cut off the stalks, prick each witli a pin sutTi- ciently long to reach the core, and put them again into cold water, with a hand- ful of alum ; set them on the fire to boil until the pears are tender, then take them out, and put them into cold water for the third time. Clarify and boii some sugar to petit li.sse, put some water to it, and when it boils, add the pc.irs, rover the pan, .and give the whole a boil; skim and pour it into an earthen pan and leave it. The next day. drain the syrup from the pears, add a little more cf.irifieil Bug.ar to it, and boil it again to petit lisse ; pour it over Uie fruit, and