C II o C II 0 ( 165 ) sugar, and mix it with whipped cream. See fFhipped Cream. Chocolate CreamPalissiere.*—Grate a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and mix it with two ounces of powder-sugar and a quarter of a pound of sweet maca- roons. Put this mixture into a cream patissiire, prepared as directed in that article- Chocolate Drops. — Take one pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a pew- ter sheet or plate, and put it in the oven just to warm the chocolate; then put it into a copper stewpan, with three quar- ters of a pound of powdered sugar ; mix it well over the fire, take it ofli and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, put them on white paper, and when they are all on, take the sheet of paper by each corner, and lift it up and down so that the paper may touch the table each time, and by that means you will see the drops come quite fat, about the size of a six- pence ; put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are on the paper, then shake them off, and you will see all the chocolate drops are covered with the sugar nonpareils; let them stand till cold, and they will come off well, and then put them in a box papered. Chocolate {Floating Island of). Take the whites of two eggs, and mix them up with two ounces of chocolate scraped; pile it on a thin custard or jelly. Chocolate au Fromage.—Whip a pint and a half of rich cream. Melt a quarter of a pound of chocolate that you have previously rasped or pounded; add a little water to it; when melted, mix with it a little isinglass and a little sugar ; then mix that with the whipped cream, fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Do not neglect to whip it over ice till you find the mixture begins to freeze; then put it into the mould, and surround it witli ice. Chocolate Fromage Bavarois of.*— Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water, and boil it for five minutes stirring con- stantly; when perfectly dissolved add a glass of good cream, (also boiling), six ounces of powder-sugar, and six drachma of clarified isinglass; when well mixed strain it off into the/^df in ice, stir it with a silver spoon, and as soon as it begins to take, mvs. a. fromage d la Ckuntilly, and finish as usual. Chocolate Frothed or Whipped.* — Put half a pound of chocolate to a glass of water over a small fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolved ; then take it off and add six yolks of eggs, a pint of double cream, and three qnar* tersofa pound of powder-sugar, lour the whole into a pan, and when coid, whip it up as directed. See Frothed Cream. , Chocolate Ge/iofse.*—Make the Ge- noise in the usual way, adding to the in- gredients a small quantity of vanilla. VVlien done make a glaze with three ounces of grated chocolate, two ounces of powder-sugar, and half the white of an egg; do them over with this, and put them into the oven for two minutes to dry. Chocolate Ices {Cream).—any quantity of chocolate, melt it over the hre in a small pan ; when melted pour it into that in which you are to make your cream ; break your yolks of eggs into it, (four eggs to every pint of cream) add some pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stir- ring continually; then add your cream by little and little, stirring and turning it till the whole is mixed properly together; then set your pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a wooden- spoon till you see your composition is near boiling, then take it off immedi- ately, for, Irora the moment you set your composition over the fire till that it offers to boil, it has sufficient tirne to in- corporate well and thicken sufficiently, without need of boiling; and should you let it boil, you would risk the turning your cream into whey, on account of the yolks of eggs, which would do too much. Take great care likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will turn to curds and whey; therefore, be careful, stir it con- tinually, from the time you set it on the fire till you take it off; then put it in the sabotiere to make ilcongeal after the usual manner. Chocolate Cream Ices.—Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on a slow fire; when properly done, mix it with a pint of cream, three yolks of new laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugar. Chocolate Ice {Water).—Take three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and mix with it half a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; mix it well, and freeze it thick. Chocolate Macaroons.*—Put a qiuar- ter of a pound of chocolate on a tin-plate over a coal fire, and when it is dissolved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoonful or two of sweet almond paste, made as for macaroons, stir it in well, and then pourit upon the remainderof the almond paste, in which you have mixed a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon or va- nilla, or both: beat them together well in