VE A VE A 481 til the whole is sufficiently frothed ; then ' lay it carefully on a dish, in a pyramidal form, and serve it. Vanilla Cream Ice.* — Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a preserving pan, pour on them the yolks of eight, and a pound of sifted sugar, whip the whole well with a whisk, and pour in by degrees two quarts of boiling cream; continue to whip it for some little time, and then put it on the fire, with half {an ounce of vanilla bruised; still whipping; when it has boiled up three or four times, strain it, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Vanilla, Creme of {Liqueur).*—Dis- solve over the fire two pounds ten ounces of broken sugar, in three pints of purified river water; when it has boiled up' once, pour it into a jar, on three drachms of vanilla, cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. When quite cold, add three pints of good brandy, cover the vessel, and when it has infused six days, co- lour it with a little prepared cochineal; filter, and bottle the liqueur. Cork the bottles tight, and seal the corks. Vanilla Sticks.*—Take some march- pane paste, a quarter of a pound of choco- late, and the same of vanilla ; mix these well into the paste, and then form it into sticks, like tlie vanilla in its original form ; lay them on a sheet of paper, and bake in a slow oven. VEAL.—The flesh of the bull calf is firmer, and generally more esteemed than that of the cow calf, hut the flesh of the latter is the whitest, and the fillet is often preferred on account of the udder. When the head is fresh, the eyes will ap- pear full; if the shoulder vein is of a clear red, it is good; when there is any green or yellow spots, it is stale; the breast and neck, when good, should look white and clear; the loin is very apt to taint under the kidney, it will be soft and slimy when stale. Veal should never be kept long undressed, ns it by no means improves from keeping. The French divide the leg into three parts, besides the middle bone; these are called the Noix, Sous-noix, and Contre-mix. The first is the largest, and has the udder to it; the second is the flat white part under theMoi>, and the third is the side part. Veal, Blanquette o/.*—Take a cold roasted shoulder of veal, raise the skin carefully, and cut all the while meat into slices; make a ragoUt with some champignons, cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, a hit of butter, a pinch of flour, salt, and pepper; when this ragudt is reduced properly, put in the veal, add a liaison of yolks of eggs, and some cream; stir it in over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; squeeze in a little lemon- juice, and serve. Veal Boiled.—Veal should be well boiled, in a good deal of water; if boiled in a cloth, it will be whiter; serve it with tongue, bacon, or pickled pork, greens of any sort, brocoli, and carrots, or onion sauce, white sauce, oyster sauce, parsley and butter, or white celery sauce. Broiled Venetian Fashion.—Cut some slices of veal, tolerably thick and large, and let them marinate for about an hour in a little oil, chopped parsley, mushrooms, shalots, bay-leaf, thyme, basil, pepper, and salt; let as much of the marinade adhere to them as you pos- sibly can. and strew over them bread- crumbs ; broil them slowly, haste them with wliat remains of the marinade, and serve with a squeeze of lemon, or a Seville orange over them. Veal Broth.—Stew a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, with two ounces of rice or vermicelli, a little salt, and a blade of mace. When thoroughly boiled and the liquor reduced to half, it is fit for use. Veal Cake.* — Take some nice thin slices of veal, and season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, grated ; have ready some hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and put a layer of these at the bottom of a basin or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slices ot ham, over this strew marjorum, thyme, parsley, shred fine, bread-crumbs and lemon-peel, chopped small; then a layer of eggs, veal, ham, &c. and so continue till the pan is filled ; pour some good gravy over the whole, cover the pan with coarse brown paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake in a slowoven ; an hour will be sufficient to bake it; when cold, turn it out upon a dish, and serve ; gar- nish with parsley. Veal 6'a^es.*—Take three quarters of a pound of lean veal, a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, half the rind of a lemon, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little shalot; mix these together, beat them well in a marble mortar, make them into small cakes, fry them, and send them up in a good gravy, either white or brown. Veal Cannellons,*—Cut yourveal into very thin slices, all the same size, at least three inches square ; lay on each slice some godiveau, roll it up, so that it may not be more than an inch thick; fasten all the edges with white ol egg, so that they may look like pieces of cane: stew them in a covered pan, with veal gravy and consomme; when done, drain them ; strain the sauce, take oll'all the. fat, and let it cool, to glaze the caunclloNs,