ART ART (31 You may also mask the artichoke bottoms with a white magnonnaise, and serve slices of tongue in the centre of your crown. This cntremet is usually served with oil, and with ravigotte chopped very fine. Or you may serve a good macedoine in tlie centre of the crown, or heads of asparagus, or French beans 4 la huile. AnTicHOKE Bottoms in Jelly.*—Turn and boil ten artichoke bottoms the same as for artichokes d la 7nugnonnaise. When they are cold, carefully pare six of the finest, and cut the remaining four (with a root-cutter two inches or tvvo inches and a quarter in diameter); in such a manner that each artichoke bot- tom shall give you three circles, these circles must all be of the same thickness. Place these circles two by two in a dish, in which you have previously put a suf- ficient quantity of aspick jelly to fill up the bottom of your dish. Place upon these little socles (which ought to be placed at equal distances) the six arti- choke bottoms, so as to form a cup, and fill up the inside of them with aspick jelly. Garnish your dish either with jelly or roots. Artichoke bottoms Ala 7nacidohie, are prepared in the same way as for arti- chokes A la magnonnaise, but you gar- nish them on a dish en p7j7'amide with a dessert spoonful of prepared macedoine, or small green French beans (three- quarters of an inch long), or heads of asparagus. The artichokes for these e7it)'emets must be marinated in salt, mig7ionette oil, and tarragon vinegar, for two hours, they must then drain on a plate. AaxicHOKEjBo^fotws, A laMagnonnaise.* —Strip oS' the leaves from eight arti- chokes, and turn them ; as you turn them rub them over v/ith the half of a lemon, and throw them into cold water. When your -artichokes are thus pre- pared, put them into a middling-sized stewpan with boiling water, two ounces of butter, the juice of two lemons, and some salt; as soon as they boil, place the stewpan by the side of the stove; cover the artichokes with a round piece of buttered paper, and leave them to simmer. When they have simmered until they are tender, drain them, take out the core, and dress them all round. Then let them marinate in a pan with oil, vinegar, salt, and whole pepper, for two hours; you must then drain them ; after this, cut each artichoke into two parts, one part a little larger than the other; take the largest of the two parts, and cut them into two equal parts, ancl place them on a dish in the form of a crown; then take the other parts, and cut them into two equal parts, the same as you cut the others, and place them in the form of a crown, over the others ; this forms a double crown, and is a very pretty manner of serving this vegetable cold, as an e7it7-emet. VVhen it is served, you pour into the middle of your crown a 7nagnonnuise, either white or green. AaxicHOKE Bottoms (7’agoiC of').— Trim them and boil with some good gravy, mushroom ketchup or powder, cayenne pepper and salt, thickened with a little flour. Arxichokes. Blo7idms.* — Half boil some artichokes, and put them into a stewpan with a slice of veal,a little bacon, and some broth ; let them stew till ten- der, then pour over them the yolks of three eggs diluted with cream, and a little chopped parsley ; let it thicken, but not boil, and serve it hot. Arxichokes en Caisson.*—Ti\m and boil young artichokes, take off the leaves and separate the bottoms; pound together streaked bacon and sausage- meat, and lay a little on the artichoke bottom, and cover it with another; dip them in a batter or eggs beaten ; strew them with bread crumbs, and fry them of a fine colour; place fried parsley under them. Arxichokes dided red.—Boil your artichokes in water till soft, then take them out, pound some cochineal very- fine, and mix in fresh water: boil the ar- tichokes with this a quarter of an h^r, and then put them in bags to dry. Arxichokes Fz-ied.—Cut your arti- chokes, according to their size, in four or eight pieces; take out the choke and clear away the large leaves, wash them well in two or three waters, drain and then dip them in a paste made with flour, cream, and yolks of eggs ; fry in oil or dripping. When you take them out of the frying-pan sprinkle them with salt, and serve on fried parsley. Arxichokes glazed.—Blanch your ar- tichokes, dry and place them in a stew- pan, with some onions sliced, some veal and lean ham and bacon ; let them sweat gently till they begin to stick to the bottom, then moisten them with a little broth in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled; when sufficiently done, pass the liquor through a napkin. Let it cool, and when it has become a jelly, pour it over the artichokes. _ Arxichokes A la Jtalie7i7ie.*—Mix a little veal gravy with some butter and n little flour, crumble some bread into a dish and pour some of the sauce, and grate parmesan cheese over it; place