C II o ( 162 ) C II I the form of an S. Arrange the ecollops as an obelisk in tlie middle of a dish, and lay the. filets and truffles round it. Chickens (Scollops of) & I’Essence of Cucumbers.—Cut scollops from the fillets of four chickens, put them in a pan with some clarified butter, spi inkle them with salt, and serve them with the fol- lowing sauce :—Pare and slice some green cucumbers, and lay the larger slices, having taken out the seeds (such as are the size of a half-crown), in salt and vinegar, for a little while; then drain them on a clean cloth, and let them stew gently with some sauce tournee, a small bit of sugar, and a little salt; when done, drain them again. In the meantime mince a few cucumbers, and put them ''with the parings into butter, sweat them till melted; mix this with tlie slices, and boil them gently, till all the butter is extracted, then reduce and mix it with some bechitmelle, and strain it through a tammy ; when the scollops are wanted, toss them up over a stove; drain the butter, and add a little cream, and put them into the sauce. Garnish with the cucumbers drained. Chickens (Scollops of) with Truffles.— Cut the fillets of three chickens into scollops, about the size of a crown-piece, and throw them into clarified butter; have ready some truffles, peeled and cut of the same size and form as the scollops; sprinkle them with salt. Reduce the cuttings of the truffles in some consomme, and mix it with veloute. Toss up the scollops and truffles just before serving, add a little thick cream, and serve with the veloute. CHINA Chilo.—Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a let- tuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonsful of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stewpan closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is approved, add a little. Chinese Temple-—Having boiled an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it by till cold, and then add to it an egg well beaten. With this, make four ounces of flour into a very stiff" paste; roll it out as thin as possible, and lay it in a set of tins the form of a temple, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, take the paste from the tins, and join each piece together according to the proper forms, with isinglass and water. The lower part, of course, ought to be stronger than the top, in order that it may sustain the weight of the whole. The pieces also must be cut ns exact as possible to the shape of the tins. CHITTERLINGS.* — Take some hogs’ entrails, cleanse them carefully, and cut them into convenient lengths; put them into water with vinegar, laurel or bay, thyme and basil, for six or eight hours ; then cut one part of these entrails and some pork together, with pork-fat, into dice, seasoning the whole with pep- per, salt, fine spice, and a little aniseed in powder; fill the remainder of the entrails with all these ingredients, but not to tightness, to prevent bursting; tie them with thin twine, and boil them in half water and half milk, with salt, thyme, bay and basil; when they are sufficiently boiled, leave them to cool in their liquor. Broil on a clear fire, and serve them. N.B. Certain celebrated French cooks previously soak them for six hours in white wine; others, _ in melted lard. They are also boiled in stock, together with carrots, parsnips, and a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, laurel, or bay; : pierce them before broiling. Chitterlings.—Take the large gut of a pig; after having well washed it, cut it into pieces of the length you would wish the chitterlings; soak the pieces in a quart of vinegar and water, mixed with thyme, bay-leaves, and basil; then chop some of the pieces quite small, and mix them with some finely minced pork; season the whole with salt, fine spices, and a single aniseed ; then fill the pieces of gut about three parts, as, if quite full, they will burst in cooking : tie the ends, and boil them in milk and water, throw- ing in some salt, thyme, bay-leaves, basil, and a little flare. When done, let them cool in their liquor, and then broil them. Chitterlings, d la Rouen.—Take a calf’s or lamb’s chaudron and some pork flee; cut them into small pieces; season them with a a small quantity of pounded aniseed, salt, and fine spices ; boil tliem in milk and fat broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few sliced onions; leave them to cool in the liquor in which they are boiled. Chitterlings, Veal. — Scald a calf’s chaudron and some udder about fifteen minutes, then cut them into fillets, with a pound of pickled pork; mix these to- gether, and add a few chopped shalots, salt, fine spices, four spoonslul of cream, and four yolks of eggs. Finish as beef cliitterlings. CHOCOLATE.'*—According as you wish to make tliis beverage, either »^th milk or water, put a cup of one or other of these liquids into a chocolate-pot, with