PIG 405 I PIG I a glass of champagne, a few m9rels dressed in veal gravy ; serve your fricas- ( see very liot. 1 Pigeons. Fricassee of, with Blood.*— I Take tJie blood of as many pigeons as you j may wish to use, squeeze into it a little I lemon-juice, ami set it aside. Prepare ! your birds as above; when nearly done, add some veal gravy, and having mixed two or three yolks of eggs with the blood, j stir it into the fricassee a little at a time. 1 Serve very hot. Pigeons, Fricassee of ^white).—Take (as many pigeons as your dish will require (and cut them or not according to their size), ijut them into a stewpan with a ! good piece of butter, a slice of ham, S chopped mushrooms, a bundle of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and thyme: I when they have soaked about twenty h minutes, add a small quantity of stock, 4 a little salt and whole pepper ; set them [; on a slow fire to simmer, reduce the ii broth, take out the ham and herbs, make S‘‘ a liaison with the yolks of two eggs and some cream, make it quite hot without boiling, add a little lemon-juice, and i serve. The pigeons may be garnished I with sweetbreads, artichoke-bottoms, &c. These, however, must be scalded before they are put to the fricassee. Pigeons au Gratin. — Prepare and scald three or four pigeons, a sweetbread . and two fat livers (also scalded), two or three artichoke-bottoms parboiled, a few mushrooms, a slice of ham, parsley, scallions, thyme, half a clove of garlic, i a bay-leaf, two cloves ; fry these lightly 1 in a proper quantity of butter, then add I gravy, a glass of white wine, a little f stock, whole pepper and salt; let the I whole simmer slowly, and when done, 1 skim it well ; pour half the sauce into a I dish that will bear the heat, and set it f on a brisk fire to form the gratin, then I put the pigeons, &c. and let it stand ; I squeeze a little lemon-juice into the re- mainder of the sauce, and pour it over the whole, and serve. Pigeons, Hotchpotch of. — Take two Or three good sized pigeons, truss and boil I them over a slow fire in some stock with I carrots, parsnip?, celery, small onions (all previously scalded) parsley, shalots, thyme, a bay-leaf, pepper and salt. When done, place the pigeons in a deep dish, with the roots, &c. arranged I around, and serve with a Spanish sauce. Pigeons in Jelly.—VxcV two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible, by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the I heads and the feet on, but the nails must j be clipped close to the claws. Roast tliem of a very nice brown, and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, and with it half-fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the Jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should he done at least four and twenty hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appear- ance in the middle, range of a second course ; or, when served with the jelly roughed large, it malees a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs must be bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. PiGEONS en Macedoine.* — Having thoroughly cleaned four young tame pigeons, put them to soak for a whole day, then beat up a pound of butter with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, with which stuff’ the pigeons; truss, and rub them over with butter and lemon, place them in a steivpan between two slices of bacon,add some consomme. When done, drain and serve them on a macedoine of vegetables. Pigeons Masfuei'uded.— Cut two or three large pigeons in quarters, which braise with a few slices of bacon, and peeled lemon, a little consomme, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a couple of cloves ; take a large eel, and cut it into as many pieces as you have quarters ; split these open, take out the bone, lard the outside with bacon, and boil them in a little veal cullis ; as soon as the fish is done, reduce the cullis, and with it glaze each piece of eel, and having laid the quarters of pigeon on your dish, place a bit of eel on everyone, and serve with any sauce you may think proper. Pigeons with Marrow.—Truss three or four large pigeons for roasting, and stuff them with a farce made of beef-marrow, two anchovies,shalots,parsley, tarragon- leaves (all shred very small), seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and bound to- gether with the yolks of two eggs. Wrap the birds in slices of bacon and paper, roast and serve tliem with a sauce made as follows :—take a little cullis, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, two slices of peeled lemon, some bruised rocam- boles, salt, and pepper; boil this for twenty or thirty minutes, till of a good consistence, strain, add a little butter, simmer a minute or two, and then pour it into the disli under the pigeons. Pigeons d la Monarque,*—Take six