409 ) P / N P I N three quarters of an hour; then drain and serve ttiem with n poiwraile. Pigeon (//'oo(/).—The wood pigeon is large, and tlie flesh of a dark colour; they are cliosen by tlie same rules as the tame pigeon. If tlie wood pigeon is pro- perly kept, and not over roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. They should be served with a good gravy. PINE Apple Chips—Vare and trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick; take half the weiglitof the fruit in powder sugar: lay the slices in a basin, with sugar strewed between ; let it stand till the sugar be dissolved, then set it on a moderate fire to simmer till the chips be uite clear, when set it by. The next ay remove all the syrup from the slices, place them on glasses, and dry them in a gentle oven. Pine Apple in a Compote.—Turn off the rind of a pine, cut it in slices, but not too thin ; have some sugar on the fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices of pine, and let them boil gently till the syrup is tolerably thick, then take out the pine, and lay it on a dish ; mix with the sugar, the j uice of a couple of lemons, and pour it over the pine. Pine Apple Fromage Bavarois. • — Pare, and cut a pine apple into small pieces, which boil in half a pound of clari- fied sugar, and when the fruit is reduced to a pulp, rub it through a sieve, add the isinglass, and proceed as directed. (See Fromage Bavaroise). Pine Apple Ice.*—Put into a pan a pound of clarified sugar, boiled to petit iisse, in which lay afine fresh pine-apple, nicely trimmed; let it remain three hours, then add the juice of two lemons ; strain this preparation through a bolting, pressing it with a wooden spoon, that as much of the pulp may be rubbed through with it as possible ; add a glass of water, and freeze as usual. (See Ice). Pine Apple ,/e/fy.*—Pare, and cut a fine ripe pine into quarters, trim each quarter of a round and long form ; take a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to lisse, add a pint of cold water, let it boil, skim. In and then put in the pine; when it has Ic boiled ten minutes, take out the round M pieces, and put them aside, leaving the k rest twenty minutes longer; then strain k the liqnor through a tammy, with the ii juice of three lemons, (also strained), |l and two ounces of clarified isinglass. Pour some of this jelly in a mould, cut the pine into small pieces, arrange them I on it, and when set, nouron more jelly, I then more pieces, anti more jelly, and so I on, till the mould is full. I ViUE Apple Jell!/.—Puta pound of clari- 1 lied sugar, boiled to the smooth degiee, and nearlyapint i f cold wab r together on the fire; take a good ripe pine, pare off the rind, cut it into four quarters, and trim each quarter into round and long pieces; as soon as the sugar begins to boil, and has been skimmed, put in the pine; when it has boiled about ten mi- nutes, take out the round pieces, kiy them on a plate, and let the other pieces remain to boil twenty minutes longer. Take the rind off three lemons, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve into a basin, and when the pine has boiled enough, pour the liquor through a sieve to it, with two ounces of clarified isinglass. Put a little jelly in the mould first, then cut the pieces of pine into small round bits; when that is set, put more jelly, then more pine, and so continue till the mould is full. TiveApple Transparent Jelly.*—Take a fine ripe, but perfectly sound pine- apple, cut it into small pieces, which throw into boiling syrup ; when the fruit has had a few boils, take it from the fire ; and as soon as it becomes cool, strain it: add a sufficient quantity of caramel, to give it a yellow tinge, then the juice of two lemons, the isinglass, and finish as usual. (See Clear Frtiit Jelly). Vive Apple {Green) Preserved.-Choo%E a good-shaped pine, and having let it soak five or six days in salt and water, put it into a saucepan with vine-leaves over and under it; fill the saucepan ivith the salt and water, and let it stand on a slow fire till the fruit becomes green, then put it into a jar, and cover it with a thin cool syrup. I'he next day, drain off' the sy- rup, give it a boil, and then pour it over the pine-apple again, with great care; leave it thus for two months, after which make a rich syrup with two or three pounds of sugar; add a little ginger, boil and skim it well, and when nearly cold, pouritover the pine (previously drained); tie the jar over tight to exclude the air. PINKS, Fromage Bavarois * — Take two ounces of pink flowers (the small red sweet scentetl ones), throw them into half a pound of clarified sugar (boiling) with ten cloves (bru'sed), and a pinch of cochineal; cover the infusion, and before it is quite cold, strain, and add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass; stir and ice it as usual j put the cream to it when it begins to tlncfcen, and finisli as direct- ed. (See Fromage Bavarois ) Pinks, Ratafia of.*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, a quart of clear river water, three pounds of sugar, two pounds of red pink flowers, and adrachm of cloves. Remove all the inferior parts of the flowers, and infuse the rest with 2N