) A L M ( II A L M a light brush dipped in the syrup ; this will give them a delicious perfume, and they may then be called A Ui^lace. When cold, take tliem from the paper and put them into glasses for the table. Almonds, A In Terra Alicante {Spa- nish).*—Clarify honey, and stir into it as many blanched almomls as you can en- tangle, Leave it to cool. This makes a pretty crystaline ornament for the des- sert ; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. Almond Tumbles.—Blanch and pound three ounces of almonds vei y fine, when almost beaten enough, take the white of an egg beaten to froth, one pound of double refined sugar well beaten, and put it in by degrees, working it into a paste with your hands, roll it out and bake it on buttered plates iu a hot oven. Almond TVafers.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, add a pound of pmvder-sugar, a pinch of orange-flowers put them into a basin, and moisten them with a sufficient quantity of whites of eggs to enable you 10 spread the paste on wafer paper with the blade of a knife (the wafer paper must be rubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil); lay the preparation on as thin as possible; chop some sweet almonds very small,mix them with sugar,and strew them over the wafers and put them into a hot oven; when about half baked, take them out and cut them in squares; re- place them a minute in the oven, take them out again, and press them on a stick to give them the proper form ; as soon as they are cold,put them on a sieve. Just before they are served they should be slightly warmed. ALMONDf^-reew) Compoteof.*—Take the peel very carefully from your almonds, and put them with water on the fire till they are tender ; then take them off' and add a little more water; when nearly cold put them on the fire again, but do not let them boil; as soon as you find tlie head of a pin will penetrate easily, they are then sufficiently done, and may be thrown into cold water; and when the fruit is quite cold,drain them. In the mean time put some clarified sugar on the fire, and when it boils put iu thealmonds; boil them in the sugar about twenty times, then remove them, and let the almonds stand to take the sugar; in about two hours'time putthem on the fire again, and boil them up a dozen times ; after which, take them off', skim, and let tlicm cool. When quite cool drain and put the fruit in a comjioticr. it the sugar sliould not be sufficiently done,boil as much more as y ou may think necessary ; squeeze in the juice of an orange, boil it once .ag.ain. and when nearly cold strain it through a cloth into the compotier over the al- monds. Almond {green) Marmalade.*—Take the down from green almonds as below ; boil them till tender, throw them into cold water, and tlien set them to drain; break and pass them tlirough a sieve ; put the marmalade on the fire to dry it, and for each pound put a pound of sugar and half a pint of water; boil and skim it, until, on dipping your finger first in tlie cold water, then in the sugar, it comes off clean ; wlien you put it in the water again, add the marmalade; heat, hut not boil, both together, and then put it into pgts. Almond {green) Nonpareils,—Drain some green almonds that have been pre- served in brandy; dip them one by one in sugar prepared OK cassd, and roll tliem in white, or any other coloured nonpa- reils, and dry them in a stove, or gentle oven. Almond (green) Pickle.*~'Ro\\ vine- gar according to the quantity of pickle you wish to make ; skim it well, and add to it mace, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper ; cut your almonds, (which should be quite young and soft,) iu halves; putthem into jars, and pour the vinegar over them. Take care to have in each jar sufficient liquor to cover the almonds. ALyioan{green)Preserved.*—Put some water into a saucepan, with two handsful of br.vn, and when it has boiled up twice, throw in some green almonds; let them hoil up once, then take them out with a skimmer, and rub them well in your liands to take off' the down ; as you do this, throw them into cold water; then boil them in water till, on pricking them, a pin easily enters ami they shrink : then clarify some sugar, a pound to a pound of fruit; boil up tlie syrup four or five successive days, tnorning and evening, without the fruit, which you leave to drain upon a sieve ; lastly, put the fruit into a pan, and when rather more than lukewarm, pour the syrup over it; when they look very green they are sufficiently done. Almond {green) Tarts.—Pull almonds from the tree belore they shell; scrape oft the down with a knife, and put them into a pan with cold water as fast as they are done; then put them into a skillet with more spring water, over a very slow fire, till theysimmer. Change thewater twice, and let them lie in the last till tender; put them between two dry cloths and press tliem dry. Make a syrup with double lefined sug.ar, and put them to simmer a little; repeat this the next day; putthem in a stone jar and cover them close, as they turn black it exposed