) BOU B 0 U (7 Tiiey may be cut into squares, ovals, lozenges, &c. if you think proper. Bouchees de Monsieur*—Pound a stick ot vanilla with tw;o ounces of pow- der-sugar, and tlien sift it; mix with it seven additional ounces of dry powder- sugar, and half a pound of sifted flour ; add to this the whites of four eggs, whip- ped firm, and work them together till the paste is very smooth and soft. Heat two copper-plate.s, rub them over with wax, and then wipe them; when cold, lay the paste with a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, shaped quite round, leave three quarters of an inch space between each ; when the plates are full, put them on stools in an oven, so that they can receive no heat from below, then put a stove with hot coals on the top of the oven, and let them remain in this state for twenty-four hours; then put them for fifteen or twenty minutes into a moderate oven. Take them from the plates whilst hot, and as soon as cold, finish them in the same way as bouchees (le dames ; glaze them with chocolate, d la rose, with pistachios, orange, cedrat, 8sc. &c. They may also be masked with sugar, pistachios, currants, &c. Bouchees (Petites), Meringuies aux Pisfaches.*—Make them the same as above, strew sugar over without wetting the rings, and bake them to a light co- lour in a moderate oven. Then mix a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar with thi"ee whites of eggs, well whipped, and mask the bouchees lightly with it, and glaze them with sugar; haying ready a quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts blanched, and each cut across sloping ; place these pieces round the edge of the bouchits like a crown; and each piece of the pistachios being placed on the cut side, they stand out from the edge of the bmchee: this process being finished, put them in the oven again a few mi- nutes, to colour the egg; and in the mean lime stir up the white of egg which remains, and make with it half as many 7jieringiiies as you have bouchies, sprin- kle them with sugar, and colour both aides of them in a slow oven ; and when the bouchees are ready for table, fill them with whipped cream, with pista- chios. and cover each with half a me- ringue. Bouchees (Petites), PerUes.*—\o\xT bouchf.es being made and baked as above, whip the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with four spoonsful of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, mask your bouchees \y\t\\ it: then take some white of egg, and with the point of a knife, drop them in pearls about the size of a grape-stone, round each bou- halfan inch apart, sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and dry the egg m the oven, taking care they do not lose their whiteness. When cold, place between each pearl a smaller one of red-currant jelly. Fill your bouchies with apricot marmalade, apple-jelly, &c.; if, however, the jelly, or whatever else you may use, be of a red colour, your intermediate pearls should be composed of light-coloured preserve, such as apricot marmalade, &c. These should be pearled a few at a time only'. Bouchees (Petites), Pralinees. * — Having prepared the as usual, durez and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are of the proper colour, mask them with whites of eggs mixed with sugar, and almonds minced very small; replace them in the oven a minute or two, and then strew red, or any other coloured sugar on them, but not so thick as to cover the almonds en- tirely. Fill the bouchees as usual. Bouchees (Petites), d la Reine.*— The same as above, only the paste must be cut thicker, and before you dorez, let them stand a few minutes. Bake in a brisk oven. BOUCONS.—Take the lean of a fillet of veal, cut it into long and thin slices, and lay them on a table ; place some bits of bacon, such as you use in larding, and as many of raw ham, one fat and one lean, the length of your slices of veal; then strew them all over with shred parsley and cives, and season them with spices and sweet herbs; then roll the slices of veal, bacon, and ham, up very handsomely, and stew them d la braise ; when they are stewed, drain the fat from them ; put to them a good cullis, and a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, &c. and serve them hot. BOUILLON de Santi.— Put into a stock-pot six pounds of beef, half a hen, and a knuckle of veal. Moisten with cold water. Let it boil so that the scum rises only by degrees, skim it well, then throw into it two carrots, two leeks, a head of celery, two onions stuck with three clove.<, and three turnips. I^et the whole simmer gently four hours. Put in a little salt, and take offall the fat. BOUQUET/Fa<er.—Take the flowers of white lilies and Spanish j'essamine, of each half a pound ; orange, jonquil, and pink, flowers, of each four ounces; da- mask rose leaves, one pound ; let all be fresh gathered, and put into an alembic with a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water. Place it in the lain marie, and draw it oil' till the leaves be- gin to rise. H