231 ) EGG EGG ! V « i ie them dry, with a clean cloth, and put them aside till wanted ; then take half a pound of lean ham, mince it small; add to it a gill of good brown sauce; stir it over the fire for a few miniites, and add a small finantitv of Cayenne pepper and lemon-juice; fill the shapes with the mixture, and lay a poached egg upon each. Egos d la Pauvre Femme *—Put a lit- tle butter into a dish, that will bear the fire, and heat it; break over it ten or twelve eggs, and set the dish on hot ashes; in the meanwhile cut some crumb of bread into dice, and throw into butter; give them a boil, drain, and strew them over tl'.e eggs, mss a salamander over, and serve with Espaenole, reduced. Eggs, Pickled.—Boil the eggs very hard; peel them, and put them into cold water, shifting them till they are cold. Make a pickle of white wine vine- gar, a blade of mace, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little whole pepper; take the eggs out of the water, and put them immediately into the pickle, which should be hot; stir them a good while, that they may all look alike; untie the herbs and spread them over the top of the pot, but cover them with nothing else till they are turned brown. They will be fit to eat in nine or ten days. Egg Pie.—Having boiled twelve eggs hard, shred them with one pound of beef-suet, or marrow shred fine ; season them with a little cinnamon and nut- meg finely beaten, one pound of cur- rants, clean washed and picked, two or three, spoonsful of cream, and a little sack and rose-water, mixed all together ; then fill the pie, and when it is baked, stir in half a pound of fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon. Egg Pie.—Boil a dozen eggs hard, mince the yolks very small with their weight in beef-suet; put to them some salt, beaten spice, lemon-peel, rose- water, sugar, a quarter of a pound of dates, stoned and sliced, add a pound of currants; you may also add an apple shred small; mix all these together, till your dish arid bake it. Serve it to table with a little wine. Eggs d la Piemo7i(aise.*—Put a couple of anchovies and a little gravy into a saucepan, and when they are dissolved, add the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs (well beaten), season them with salt, pepper, and n'ttmeg; beat them well whilst they are doing. Serve them with fried bread, grate Parmesan cheese over, and brown it with a sala- mander. Egos, Poached.—Have ready a sauce- pan ol boiling water, break in your eggs carefully, and let them boil for three or four minutes ; then take them out with a slice, and serve them, either upon toast, spinach, or whatever yon please. Eggs {Poached) with Aspic.*—Warm some aspic, and pour part of it into a mould; when congealed again, have ready some eggs poached, and garnished with truffles ; lay them on the jelly, and fill the mould with the remaining aspic, and finish it in the usual way. Eggs, Poached with Gmy.v.*—Fill a saucepan about three parts full of water, to which add a little salt and vinegar; as soon as it boils, set it by the side of the fire, and carefully break four eggs into it; be careful not to injure the yolks. When done, take them out with an egg- spoon, and if they should chance to be rather hard, throw them into cold water, drain them on a cloth, pepper them a little, and serve them with gravy. Twelve or fifteen eggs are sufficient for a dish; the water should be kept boiling whilst they are doing. Eggs {Poached) Potage o/.*—Having oached as many eggs as you wish to ave, trim and place them in a soup- tureen, and pour on them some good stock or broth. Ten minutes before you serve it, add a small quantity of coarse pepper. Eggs d la Proventfale.*—Put a glass of oil inlo a frying-pan over a gentle fire, and when quite hot, pour into it an egg, with salt and pepper; when the white begins to bubble, press it down with a spoon, turn it, that both sides may be equally done ; then take it out and set it on a hair sieve to drain ; do twelve eggs in this manner, dish them with fried bread glazed between each. Reduce some sauce espagnole., in which put the juice of half a lemon, and pour it over them. Eggs, Puffed or Raised.—Carefully separate the whites and yolks of eight eggs without breaking the yolks ; froth up the whites ; cover one of the yolks carefully, with a spoonful of the froth, and so continue, till all the yolks ate covered ; then slide them gently oH'inlo a hot Jriture, one after another. Serve with a cullis satice, made tolerably relish- ing or sharp with lemon-juice. Egg Punch.* — Take a punch-glass, and put into it a wine-glass of syrup of Itunch (see that article), and the yolk of an egg; beat them together with a spoon, and then fill tip the glass with boiling water, stirring a little as you pour ititi. Eggs, « Sabni o/.—Boil six bruised shalols in a glass of white wine for about id