CUE CUE 134 the best dailies, being of a delicate fla- vour, and agreeable texture, is preferred to all others, by the cagnosceuti, for toasting. A Welch rabbit, capitally cooked, of Derbyshire cheese, is served with eclat at the best appointed tables. Cheddar cheese is also in high esteem at the best tables. It is in its prime from nine to twelve months, Dunlop cheese, made in the parish of Dunlop, in Ayrshire, is in high esteem at the first Scottish tables, and is consi- dered a handsome pi-esent to an English family; and due honours arc paid to the Ayrshire dairies,asoften as it is set upon the English board. The Great Unknown has celebrated the Dunlop cheese in his “ Heart of Mid Lothian.’’ Of cream cheeses, there are various sorts, and for which the English dairies are famed. Amongst others, the Cotten- ham, when in its prime, is of delicious flavour. The Bath cream cheese is also delectable, and others, which are eaten equally new, particularly those from a certain town in Bedfordshire, the name of which we do not recollect ; these, and many more of excellent quality, are thin in form; the Stilton is also a cream cheese, tliough amongst the thickest that come from an English dairy. Of foreign cheese, the Parmesan, which being first made_ at Parma, in Italy, hence derives its name, still maintains pre-eminence over all others. The manufacture of this cheese was formerly confined to the dairies of Parma and Piacenza; and where, for a long period, the best were made; of late, however, the district of Lodi is most celebrated for this cheese. The Gruyere from Switzerland, the Rochefort, made of ewes’ milk, and the Neufchatel from France, are cheeses, served as delicacies upon an English table; but the true English Cheshire is held superior to all these, even by the learned gastronomists of Paris. In having the care of the cheese for the parlour, or for the family in general, says an anonymous writer, let a broad hanging shelf be hung, either in the wine or strong beer, cellar, .as neither rats nor mice can then get at the cheese. If you keep cream cheeses, put them between two plates or dishes to ripen, v;ith some fresh leaves from the garden, and turn them every morning; and for ^1 other cheeses have a rack or two ofadc in the cellar, for it will be a means m improving them daily. A large space in the rack should be left for the Che- shire, brick-bat. and dolphin cheeses, ike. &c.; and nothing iipproves them^ or makes them go farther, than putting three or four on each pipe or cask of wine, and brushing and turning them every week ; but if ihere are no casks of wine, put them on the tops of the strong beer casks. Cheefe, even of an inferior quality, if thus managed, will become much richer, fine, and mellow. They must he turned alternately. The cheese should not be brought from the rack to the parlour, but at the mr»- inent it is wanted, and should be return- ed to the rack as soon as taken from table. Be careful to use those that are ripe and mellow first. Cheeses of all sorts, are known to be the best which have smooth thin coats, and those chosen which are the heaviest; for, although they be of the same size, yet they difler materially in that point; as all fat, good cheese is tlie heaviest. The round Dhtch cheese, of the best quality, and not too salt, which is a com- mon failing with them, is not unfre- quently used for toasting, and with suc- cess. This, and other cheeses, made of skim milk, are considered better for that purpose, and eat richer and more agree- ably to the palate than even the best North Wiltshire, indubitably one of the richest of English cheeses. The fatly richness of this material, constitutes not the desired properties for toasting, as the inferior cheeses are, when toasted, found to be richer, softer in consistence, less ropy, and superior in flavour, than even Stilton. Cheeses that hecome tainted with mites, are recommended by a Derby- shire lady, well acquainted with the oper- ations of the dairy, to be wiped, and then put into a pot in which mutton has been cooked, whilst the water is yet but, and made ta boil a few seconds, then to be taken out, immediately wiped, dried, and put away in a dry place. Cheese, Artificial.—Take a gallon of new milk, two quarts of cream, nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, all well pounded; boil these in milk; then put in eight eggs, six or eight spoonsful of wine vine- gar to turn the milk; let it boil tdl it comes to .a tender curd ; tie it up in a cheese-cloth, and let it hang six er eight hours to drain ; tlien open it, take out the spice, sweeten it with sugar and rose- water; put it into a cullender, let it stand an hour more, then turn it out, and serve it up in a dish, with cream under it. Cheese Brioche,*—Make a Iriorhcin the usual way, and when rc.ady (cr bak- ing, spread it over the board, and sticw over it some Gruyere cheese, cut into dice, in the proportion of a quarter ol a pound of cheese to a pound of brioche