ONI (357) ONI done, turn it out on a dish, and serve it. This omelet should be of a clear colour, and shake like a jelly. Omelet Stuffed.*—Make your omelet as au Naturei, but before you turn the ends over, lay on it a farce of sorrel; double the omelet before you take it from the pan, so that none of the farce may be perceived, and cement the edges with white of eggs ; serve it very hot. Any other sort of farce may be applied in the same way. Omelet with Sweetmeats.*—Make an omelet with nine eggs ; when quite done, spread over with any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper ; roll it up to the form of a muff, strew powder-sugar over; make a skewer quite hot, run them through, and fry them. ONIONS with Carp Hoes.—Make a roux with butter and flour, to which add a little onion gravy, some large onions (previously scalded), a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, ba- sil, bay-leaf, and a few cloves; when nearly done, put in some carp roes, and leave them a little longer; then take out the parsley, reduce the sauce ready for table, put in a few capers chopped, and one or two anchovies ; gar- nish your dish with fried bread. Onion Cullis, Maigre of.— Put some sliced onions into a pan with a little but- ter, set it on a brisk fire ; when brown, add two spoonsful of flour, keep it stir- ring, put to it some broth, a glass of white wine, two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, and basil; let it boil for an hour, skim, and rub it through a sieve, with seasoning according to your taste. Onions, Garbure of. — Take about forty onions, cut them into quarters, which divide into two or three slices, (having taken ofi' the skins, heads, and stalks); put about half a pound of butter into a pan, and v^hen it is melted, fry the onions in it, of a nice clear colour. Then have some bread cut in thin slices; place a layer of this on a dish, then a layer of onions, and so on alternately, until the dish is quite full, strewing pep- per and salt between each. Pour some stock over the whole, and set it on the fire to simmer, till the gi'atin is formed, taking great care not to let it burn, as that will make it bitter, but all the mois- ture must be completely dried up. Have some broth in a separate dish, and serve it. Onions Glazed.*—Choose your onions as near of a size as you can, peel them with care; butter the bottom of your Btewpan, lay the onions on it head down- wards, a piece of sugar the size of a wal- nut, and a sufficient quantity of stock or water, to reach the tails of the onions; set them on a brisk fire; when the liquor is reduced to about three-fourths, lessen your fire, and let it stand till it becomes quite a jelly. Large or small onions may be glazed thus, being careful, however (as above mentioned), to select them as nearly of a size as possible. Onions {Matelote of).— Take seven or eight pieces of ox tails, and having scald- ed, braise them in some stock, with pars- ley. two cloves, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper and salt; when about half done, put in eight large onions (previously scalded) ; as soon as they are quite done, take them out, strain the sauce, to which add a glass of port wine and some cullis. Serve your matelote as usual. (See Matelote.) Onion Omefef.*—Out some very white onions into slices, give them a few turns over the fire; when nearly done, moisten them with cream, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; mix this with half a dozen eggs; beat the whole up well, and fry the omelet either in oil or butter. Onion Omelet.— Take two or three good sized onions, cut them into slices, and fry them in butter ; when they are done, add the yolks of two eggs, and a little chopped parsley; fry two small omelets, on which lay the onions, with two or three anchovies, cut in slips ; roll them up lengthwise ; fry some pieces of crumb, cut the omelets to the shape and size of these, and place them thereon ; pour melted butter, and strew bread crumbs and grated Parmesan over them, and colour it in the oven. Onions with Parmesan Cheese.—Pare six large mild onions, and cut them into round slices, half an inch in thickness. Then make a batter with flour, half a gill of cream, a little pepper, salt, and three e^gs, beat up for ten minutes; after which add a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated tine, and mixed well together, to which add the onions. Have ready some boiling lard; then take the slices of onions out of the batter with a fork, singly, and fry them gently till done of a nice brown. Drain them dry, and serve them up placed round each other. For sauce, melted butter with a little mustard in it. Onions {to Pickle).*—Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt and water, and pour it over them; let them stand in this twenty-four hours, keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam : after that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, tvith ginger and white pepper over them. Take care the vinegar always covers the onions. Onions {to /^ic/(-/c).*—Shift the onions