MIN ( 335 ) M 0 R chopped fine, a pound of moist sugar, a pound of suet, well chopped, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped small; the juice of four Seville oranges, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg, and mace,according to taste, and a glass of brandy, mix all well together, put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. Mint, Crhne o/.*—Put into the ham- marie alembic, a gallon of brandy, twelve ounces of fresh-gathered mint, and the rinds of three lemons j distil from this two quarts of liqueur, in which dissolve one drachm of essence of mint; put a pound and half of sugar into two quarts of water, and when entirely dissolved, add the syrup to your liqueur, strain and bottle it. Mint {distilled) Liqueur of.*—Take two handsful of fresh gathered garden mint, and infuse it for some days in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water I then distil it as usual. Dis- solve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, mix the syrup with the liqueur, and run the whole through a jelly bag. Mint {essence of) Jelly.*—Put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar into a preserving p.an, and when nearly boiling, throw into it twelve drachms of fresh gathered mint, and the rinds of two lemons; cover it and leave it to get luke- warm ; dissolve half a drachm of essence of mint in a glass of tepid water, add half a glass of kirschenwasser, mix these with the lukewarm sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass, also lukewarm; strain the whole through a silk sieve, and finish as usual. Mint {green) Vinegar.—Take half an ounce of mint, dry and pound it, pour over it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day. Mint (Orange) Water.—Take a still full of orange mint, distil it in a cold still, and put fresh orange mint into the water; distil it, again, and put your bot- tles into the still unstopped ; a spoonful of this water put into a glass of spring water, will perfume it as well as orange flower water. Mint Sauce.—Take nice fresh mint, chop it small, and mix it with vinegar and sugar. Mi.nt SnuJJlas Franqais.*—Take some fresh gathered mint leaves, put them, with the rinds of two lemons, into the milk, when nearly boiling ; strain and finish as usual. See Souffles Franqais. Mint Water. — Take four pounds of dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water; distil them, and sweeten the water with a pound and a half of sugar. MIRLITONS.*—Put into a pan two yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of powder sugar, three ounces of sweet macaroons crushed, half an ounce of crisped orange-flowers in powder, and _a grain of salt; stir these together a mi- nute, then add two ounces of melted but- ter; whip the two whites very firm, and put them also to the preparation. Line thirty tartlet moulds with puff-paste, into each of which pour an equal quan- tity of the above ; cover them with sifted sugar, and when that is dissolved, strew over a little sugar, d la grile ; and-put them into a moderate oven : serve either hot or cold. Moor Game, see Fowl. MORELS.*—The morel is a kind of mushroom, and is usually dressed in the same manner. For a ragofit or garnish, they are prepared as follows : —Having taken off their stalks, split the largest morels into two or three pieces; wash and put them into a basin of warm water to free them from the sand and earth ; then blanch, drain, and put them into a stewpan, with_ a piece of butter and lemon-juice, give them a few turns, and moisten with either brown or vrhite sauce. Morels with Bacon. — Cut about quarter of a pound of bacon into slices, put it into a stewpan and set it on the fire; when done, take some large mo- rells, wash them thoroughly, cut each in half, and put them into the same pan (having removed the baron) ; add a lit- tle butter, and give them a few turns ; then take them out, soak them in melted butter or oil, with chopped parsley, slialots, whole peper, and salt; in about half an hour, drain and roll them in bread-crumbs, put on small skewers, lay them on a gridiron, broil slowly, bast- ing occasionally with the butler, bacon, fat, and the marinade ; lay the slices of bacon on a dish, and the morels on them. Morels with Cream.*—The morels being thoroughly washed, cut them in halves or quarters, according to their size; stew them with butter, salt, and a little water ; when they are nearly done, add some good cream, mix it in well, finish them, and serve the morels quite hot. Morels with Ci-mite.*—Pick, and cut the morels in halves, wash them in se- veral waters ; boil, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley and scallions; fry them lightly, then add a little flour and con-, sommo, reduce them ; take out the par-