249 ) F 0 W F 0 W Fowl Cream.*—Pound the white parts of some roasted fowls, with a quarter of a pound of sweet alinends; when it be- comes a fine paste, dilute it with half a pint of cream; strain, and then cook it in the bain marie. Fowl d la Creme.—This dish is made of a cold fowl, either roasted or stewed ; yeu take off the breast and fleshy part of the fowl, by cutting itsquare all through, with a little bread toasted, and dipped in butter, stop the aperture ; then fill the fowl with farce a la a-eme; then make a kind of wall round the fowl with but- tered paper, cover the same with bacon, to prevent the fowl from getting too much colour. If this dish is to be placed on the flanks of the table in the second course, some of the same farce may be served on toasts cut in the shape of hearts or lozenges, which are called temiAns. These are to be baked in the oven, the same as the fowls, and the fat to be well drained: serve with a thin espagnole sauce, or velmte. The toast must be fried before the farce is put over it. FowL,Oopio^gt«'so/.—This dish is pre- pared in the same manner, as the cro- quettes of fowls; but each ball is wrapped in thin slices of cold calf’s udder. Fry them, and serve on fried parsley. Fowl, Croquettes of.*—Take all the meat from a fat chicken, remove the sinews, and skin, mince it very small; put into a saucepan two ladiesful of veloute; when well reduced,add the yolks of four eggs, then the mince; mix them to- gether, and then take it from the fire; make it into balls the size of walnuts, which, (when cold),roll in bread crumbs, give them rather a long than round form, dip them in egg, bread them a second time, and fry them in hotfrilure. Fowls Davenport Fashim.—Let young fowls hang a night; take the livers, hearts, and most tender parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary; an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, according to taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, to prevent the water from getting in ; boil them in salt and water, till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a suflicient quantity of butter to brown them. Serve tliem with melted butter, and a spoonful of any catsup you please, in the dish. Fowl a la Dreux.—The. fowl being trussed, if you wish to give additional firmness to the skin and flesh, have some boiling water ready, then lay hold of the fowl by the saddle, dip tlie breast in the water, and then dip it in cold water; when the fowl is quite cold, cut some ham into long squares; lard the breast of the fowl in imitation of a draft-board, put it into a stewpan, trimmed all round with fat bacon, and moisten with poele, there must be a brisk fire over it, and a slow one under it, as it will be sufficiently done in three quarters of an hour at tlie most. Dry the bacon with a salamander, glaze of a good colour, and serve with a sauce d I'allemande. Fowl (fillets of ) en Chemise.*—TeF.^ as many fillets of fowl as you may require, and cut them into thin slices; make a good farce,in which rolleaclioftheslices, so that they may be completely w'rapped in ; enclose these little fillets each in a piece of caul, place them en a skewer, and roast them. Serve them with veal gravy, or fowl consomme. Fowl, (fillets of) Larded.*—Take the fillets from tliree fine fowls, leaving on the ends of the pinions, trim, and lard them ; stick the end of the pinion under- neath each, to give them a better form ; butter a stewpan, put into it three ladies- ful of jelly,on which place your fillets,with a piece of buttered paper ; set the stew- pan on the fire, and let it boil, but not too fast; cover the lid with fire, and if in three quarters of an hour your jelly be not sufficiently reduced, make a better fire, and let it stand a quarter of an hour longer. Dip the larded side of your fil- lets into the jelly, and serve them with an espagnole travaille underneath : to which may be added the jelly your fillets were, cooked in. Fowl Forced.—Take a large fowl, pick it clean, cut it down the back, draw it, then take off'the skin whole, cut the flesh from the bone, and chop it up with half a pint of oysters, an ounce of beef marrow, and a little pepper and salt, mix it up with cream, lay the meat on the bones, draw the skin over it and sew up the back, cut large thin slices of bacon, lay them over the breast of the fowl, and tie the bacon on with packthread. It will take an hour to roast before a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy sauce, pour it in the dish, take the bacon oft', lay the fowl in the gravy, and serve. Garnish with oysters, mushrooms, or pickles. Fowl en Fricandeatt.—Cut a fowl in two, and bone it tlioroughly^ make a forcemeat of a sweetbread, cut into large dice, a few fat livers, truffles, or mush- rooms, or both, clioppcd parsley', shalots, and seraped bacon, mixed with the yolks of three eggs, pepper, and salt; fill the fowl with this farce, sew it up, and give it a fry in butter for a moment; then