L 1 V L I V ( 319 ) fat livers with beef marrow, fine herbs, shred small, salt, and spices; mix them together with cream, or yolks of eggs; roll out some pufl’-paste, cut, fill, and finish the collops in the same manner as collops of leveret. .. ™ , Livers (Fat) Garniture.*—T&Vn six fat livers, from which take the bitter parts, trim them carefully, so that they do notbur.it; then lay them in water to get rid of the blood, and scald them the same as cocks’-eomhs; stew the livers between slices of bacon, in a rich ?«)>•<;- poix; when done, lay them aside till wanted iovgaryiiture. Liver {Fat) Loff/.*—Weigh a pound of fat livers, ten ounces of panada, and eiglit of fresh butter, or grated bacon; pound the panada, then add the butter to it, and pound them together ; take them out of the mortar, in which pound the livers, after a time put the otlier ingre- dients to it, and beat the whole well for a quarter of an hour, mixing with it by degrees, the yolks of five eggs,_an ounce of spiced salt, two spoonsful of fine herbs, done up in butter, and one of veloute ; rub this farce through a quenelle sieve into a pan; add to it two ounces of calf’s udder, two of tongue, d Vecarlate, and two of truffles all cut into dice; line a plain circular mould with thin slices of bacon, make them very smooth, and pul the farce into it. Liver (Fat) Toasts.—Make a farce with some bread soaked in cream, truf- fles, one or two fat livers, marrow, shalots, all well pounded, and mixed with shred parsley, pepper, salt and eggs ; cut some slices of crumb of bread, about half an inch thick; spread the farce on, of the same thickness as the bread, smooth them with a knife dipped in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and fry them ; serve with any clear sauce under them. LivERs(/dr<0 Tourteof.—Vai the crust upon a pie-dish in the usual manner, and lay pounded bacon at the bottom ; season the livers and place them on the bacon ; cover them with butter, a buhch of sweet herbs, one slice of ham, and a few of bacon; cover, and bake it. The ham, bacon, and herbs must be taken out when it is done, drain off the fat, and pour a ragout of cock’s-combs in, and serve. Livers (Fish) Toasts.—Mince the livers of any kind of fish, and having mixed them with shred parsley, shalots and capers, pepper and salt, set it on the fire with a bit of butter, and letitsiinmer forsometime; in themean timctakesome slices of crumb of brcail, cut them into what shape you please, fry them in but- ter, and when the livers are cold, spread the preparation on the bread with fillets of anchovies laid in cross-bars over rt; baste them with melted butter, strew bread crumbs over, place tficm on a baking plate, and bake them for half an hour. Serve the toasts with melted but- ter and lemon juice. Livers with Mushrooitis—Take the livers of any sort of tame fowls, and when they are cleared from the galls, put hards of bacon at the bottom of a baking-pan, and lay the livers upon them ; season the livers and cover them with bards of bacon ; bake them in a moderately heated oven ; wash and pick some mushrooms, dry them over a stove, then lay them in a dish with a little bacon and vinegar ; then toss some slices of ham in boiling .lard, with a bunch of savory, and a pinch of flour ; moisten it with some veal gravy; when the mush- rooms and livers are well drained, boil them in the same sauce, skim off the fat, and serve them up hot. Liver and Parsley Sauce.—Wash the liver (which should be quite fresh) of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it for ten minutes, in five table spoonsful of water; chop it fine, or pound or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve ; wash about one-third its bulk of parsley leaves, boil them in a little boiling water with a tea spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and chop it very fine; mix it with the liver, and put it into a quarter of a'pint of melted butter, and warm it up; do not let it boil. Livers au Ragoitt.—Take the liver of a turkey and the livers of half a dozen fowls, clean them, and take the greatest care not to break the g.alls, for if the livers are hitter the dish will be spoiled ; put them into cold water, and then put the livers of the fowls into a saucepan, with rather more than a quarter of a pint of gravy, a spoonful of catsup, a spoonful of pickled mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pep- per ; stew them gently ten or twelve minutes ; nicely broil the turkey’s liver, lay it in the middle of the dish, place the stewed liver round it, and pour the sauce over. Liver Sauce.—Take the livers of poul- try, or game, chop them very small, with parsley, scallions, tairagon-leave.«, and shalots. Soak them in a little butter *’*'*’» ^nd then pound tliem, add cullis stock, pepper and salt; give the whole a boil with two glasses of red wine, coriander, cinnamon, and sugar ; reduce and strain it. Thicken with a bit of butter rolled in flour. Serve it in a sauee-bont.