473 ) TUR TUR Truffles, Tourteof.—Boil a dozen peeled truffles in a pint of cream, with a quarter of a pound of su^ar; wlien the cream is reduced to half, take out the truffles, pound them to a_ paste, which stir into the cream ; line a dish with almond paste, pour in the above, cover the tourle, bake, and ice it. TRUSSING (Directions for). — See the different articles. TUNNY. — This salt-n'ater fish is but little known in_ England. When fresh, it is stewed with butter, parsley and scallions, shred; it is then breaded and browned with a salamander. It may also be boiled like fresh salmon. The tunny, however, is most commonly pickled, and served cold in a salad. TURBOT. — Turbot, when good, should be thick and full, and the belly of a yellowish white or cream colour. Turbot Baked.*—Wash your fish jn several waters, dry it well, and soak it in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; in half an hour put the whole into a bakiiigdish, envelop itcompletely in breadcrumbs, and bake it. Turbot, Breaded.*—Prepare a small turbot as usual, slit it across the back, and soak it for an hour in melted butter, or lemon-juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with bread-crumbs, and broil it; when done, squeeze lemon, or Seville orange-juice over it, and serve. Turbot, Croquettes of*—Are made like those of cod. Turbot, (at, Court-Bouillott.*—Fill a large saucepan with water, and put into it a pound of salt, twenty bay-leaves, a handful of thyme, the same of parsley, twenty scallions, and half the number of large onions sliced ; set it on the fire; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and then strain it. As soon as it is quite clear, rub the white side of a large turbot, either with lemon-juice or milk, put it into a fish-kettle, and pour the centrt- bouillon over it; set it on the fire to sim- mer for an hour, or more, according to its size. When done, take it out care- fully, let it drain, and serve it on a folded napkin; garnish with parsley. Turbot, d la Creme.* — Pai into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of good milk, or more if neces- sary ; set it on the fire, and keep stirring till sufficiently smooth, and the right consistence; take a ready-dressed tur- bot, cut it into pieces, and put them into another saucepan, pour the sauce over them, make the whole quite hot, and then serve. Turbot, Fillets o/.*—Cut the fillets from a turbot, dressed \n a court bouillon. Dissolve some butter with an anchovy, shred parsley, and sweet herbs, salt, nutmeg, and pepper; add a glass of cream, put in the fillets, stir them gently over the fire till the sauce is thick and smooth; then serve. Turbot, GVace.*—Take off the skin, tail, and fins of a turbot, and lard it with bacon ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint or more of wine, two slices of lemon, five or six onions, sliced, pepper, and salt; set it on a moderate fire, and when about two-thirds done, take it off", and leave the fish to cool. In the mean- time, boil a knuckle of veal in some stock, with half a glass of white wine; reduce it to a jelly; let it take a fine clear colour, and whilst hot, pour it on a dish over the turbot, spread it equally over the whole, and serve. Turbot, au Gratin.* — Take some pieces of ready-dressed turbot, remove the skin and bones, and put the pieces into a saucepan, with some bechamelle muigre.1 set it on the fire, make it quite hot, without letting it boil; spread it all over a dish, make it quite smooth with the blade of a knife, cover it with bread- crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; pour some melted butter on it, garnish your dish with fried bread, put it in the oven to colour, and serve. Turbot, GreYfo/.*—Split the fish down the back, and soak it for some time, with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, broil, and serve it with lemon, or Seville orange juice. ^ Turbot, a la Hollandaise.—fPat your turbot into a fish-kettle, with equal quantities of milk and water, a bit of butter, salt, lemon squeezed in, and rubbed over the turbot, put paper over it, and let it simmer gently till done ; then take it up, drain it from the liquor, and serve it on a dish without a fish- plate, and pour a sauced la Hollecndaise, all over. Turbot, wit/i Macaroni in a Gratin. —Take the remains of a turbot which has been dressed the preceding day, and pick it from the bone, put it into liot water, to make it separate into flakes, and then put it into some very good cream sauce, with a little pipe macaroni, well boiled ; be particular that there is no water either in the flakes of turbot, or the macaroni, as it would spoil the sauce ; when made very h it in the sauce, put it on a dish, strew bread-crumbs over it, sprinkle some clarified butter over with a spoon, then strew bread- crumbs again ; brown it with the sala- mander, and serve. 2S3