( 491 ) V E A VE A fasten them to a spit, and roast them before a large fire; glaze and serve with a clear aspic, ova.puree of any kind yon like. Veal (Shoidderof) Galantine*—Take a handsomely cut shoulder of veal and bone it; cut about a pound of meat from the thickest parts, mince it together witli an equal quantity of bacon, mix them well with the yolks of four eggs, shred parsley, salt, and spices, and spread the/aree, about an inch thick, over the whole joint; lay on it some lurdms, truffles, tongue d Vicariate, carrots, and an omelet, coloured green with spinach essence, all cut irf lardons; cover these with another layer of farce, place more of the lardons, &c. and then atbirdlayer of farce', rollup the shoulder, carefully securing the ends; lay rashers of bacon round it, wrap it in a cloth and tie it tight. Line a braising pan with slices of i bacon, put in the galantine, with t\vo calf’s feet, the bone of the shoulder, six carrots, eight or ten onions, one stuck with four cloves, four bay-leaves, a little thyme, a large bunch of parsley and scal- lions ; pour in some stock, and cover the pan ; set it on the fire, and leave it for three hours, by which time the shoulder will be sufficiently done; take it out, pressing it gently that all the gravy may run from it, and then let it cool. Break two eggs into a stewpan, beat them well, strain the liquor, and pour it to them, stirring all the time, that they may be thoroughly blended; add a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and parsley, salt, pepper, and apices ; set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil, remove it to the side; cover the stewpan, and put hot ashes on the top, and leave it to boil slowly for half an hour, when strain it gently through a fine cloth, but do not pre.ss it; when cold it will be quite a jelly. Place I the galantine on a dish, trim and glaze if, and surround it with the jelly. I Veal {Skoulderof)auxPvtiies Racines.* —Tile shoulder is honed, and larded in- side with bacon, seasoned with shred parsley;, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper, salt, and spices; it is then rolled, and tied up ! like the galantine, dressed in tlie same w.iy. It is served hot, with pctites racines ( round it, (See Roots.) Veal {Shoulder of) Roasted. — Cut off r' the knuckle for a stew or gravy, stufl' I the shoulder with the following ingre- I dientssome suel, cluipped fine, pars- ley and sweet herbs, shred fine, bread- I crumbs, aud grated lemon-peel, pepper, I aalt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg ; whilst r roasting, flour and baste it; veal requires ' being more done than beef. Veal Sweetbreads,—They are of them- selves, generally considered very insipid, and are, therefore, usually served with a sharp relishing sauce, in whatever wan- ner they are dressed, and commonly take their name from the sauce with which they are served. Particular card should be taken to braise them tender and white. Veal Sweetbreads d VAnglaise.* — Take six veal sweetbreads (three of each sort) scald, and then dress them in a half glaze, tn which let them cool; have ready the yolks of four eggs, beaten with a quarter of a pound of butter, to the consistence of a thick cream ; di ain the sweetbreads, soak them in it, and then roll them in grated bread; repeat this operation, and either broil or bake them.. Veal Sweetbreads {Atelets of).* — When the sweetbreads are scalded, cut them into oblong pieces, all the same size, and put them into an atelet sauce; cut also a calf’s udder in the same man- ner, but very thin; put these, alter- nately, on skewers ; dip them in beaten egg, and broil them. Serve with a to- mata, or Italienne sauce. Veal Sweetbreads d la Bichamelle.— Blanch two throatsweetbreads, and then let them stew for fifteen minutes in some good braise ; take tliem out, and let them cool; then trim them neatly round, and cut them in rather thin slices, put them into some good bichamelle sauce ; a few mushrooms is a very greatimprovemeiUf make the whole very hot, and serve. Veal Sweetbread Boudin.* — The sweetbreads being scalded, cut them into pieces as big as nuts, and mix with them pork and beef, chopped small, shred tar- ragon and scallions, godiveau, bread, boiled in milk, and beaten with yolks of eggs, season the whole with salt, pepper, and spices. Soak some pieces of caul in warm water to soften them, spread them open on the table, and fill them with the above mentioned mixture ; roll them up in whatever shape and size you please, cook them in a Dutch oven, and serve them crisp. Veal Sweetbreads cn Caisse.*—Make three paper cases, each sufficiently large to contain a sweetbread; take three sweetbreads, scald, and then dress them in an atelet sauce ; when done, and cold, utthem into the cases, previously tub- ed with oil; add a spoonful of cspagnolc to the sauce ; mix them well together, and then pour it into the cases; cover the sweetbreads with a few finely grated dry crumbs, add a few drops of melted butter, and bake for half an hour; let them be nicely browned aud serve, Veal Sweetbreads with Cheese.*—Fry some small onions in a little butter, and