APP APP (22) in your apples, and finish according to the receipt of Apple Pudding d la Fran- <]aise. Avvi^^iP lidding with Pistachionuts.*— Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them jn quarters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces. Tlien put them into a stew-pan with six ounces of fine sugar (over which should be grated the rind of a lemon), four ounces of butter, lukewarm, four ounces of green pista- chio nuts (whole), and ratlier more than half a potof apricot marmalade ; let them stew till they are warmed througii, then pour them into a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould, put in your ap- ples, and finish the same as in the receipt of Apple Pudding d/a Frangaise. When itis ready to serve, mask it with apricot marmalade, and strew pistachio nuts, chopped small, over it. Avp LES (Pitr^e of).—Peel and core a dozen or more good baking apples ; set them over the fire to stew with some cla- rified sugar and a small bit of lemon peel; when soft stir them well with a wooden spoon, and put in a spoonful of apricot jam ; stir it at times till the jam is mixed and the apples thicken, then rub the whole through a tammy. Apples inRice.*—Scoup out the cores, and pare, very neatly, half a dozen good- sized apples ; boil them in thin,clarified sugar; let them imbibe the sugar, and be careful to preserve their form. Make a marmalade with some other apples, adding to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of rice previously boiled in milk, with sugar and butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; put them into a dish for table, surround it with a border of rice, and place the whole apples in the rice, and marmalade and bake it. When done, pnt into each of the apples a tea- spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper. Apples, in Hice*—Pare, core, and cut four or five good apples in quarters; boil some rice in a cloth,and when soft put in the apples, tie it up very loose, and boil ■gently till sulliciently done. Apple Sauce.—V-ave, core, and slice some apples ; put a little water into the saucepan to prevent them from burning; add a bit of lemon peel; when sulliciently done take out the latter. Bruise the ap- ples, putin a bitof butter,and sweeten it. Apples (Snow).—Scoop the core out of half a dozen good apples, and fill them with quince marmalade; stew them ten- der in half a pint of water with some su- gar, lemon peel ; add a little more mar- malade ; pul the apples with the liquor in the dish ; beat the whiles of six eggs to snow with orange flower water, and sugar to the taste ; cover the apples with it and bake them half an hour. Apples. SovJJU Pum/en.*—Make a marmalade of three dozen apples, half a pound of powder sugar, the i)eel of a lemon, and a glass of water; dry it as much as you possibly can, for on that the good appearance of the sovjjU parisien chiefly depends; then put it into a large stew-pan. Whip the whiles of fifteen eggs to a strong froth, with a pound of powder sugar. Mix a quarter of this at first, with the apple marmalade, then stir the whole together, and pour it into fLcrousfade prepared as usual. (See Soef- fle.) Bakeitforan hour in a moderate oven. Serve it as soon as possible after taking it from the oven. Glaze it with powder sugar. Apples, Snidoise formant le pont d cotonnes.*—Peel, and take out the core of forty renneting apples. Take ten of them and cut them into thin slices, and then into long squares ; as you cut them throw them into four glasses of water, in which you have previously put two ounces of sugar and the juice of a lemon. By this means the whiteness of the ap- ples will be preserved, for without the sugar and lemon they would turn red in the water; then take them out of the water and drain them, and then boil them in six ounces of clarified sugar; do not let them boil too long, for if they lose their firmness you cannot preserve their shape. Whilst they are boiling, cut eight more of the apples into little columns with a coup-racineone inch and a half in diameter, put them into the sugar and water, and boil them the same as the preceding, and then put them to drain on a large sieve, on which you should have previously placed the apples which were fir.st boiled. Then cut the remainder of the apples, and boil them in the rest of the syrup with the zesfe of a lemon. Cover them closely to keep in ilie vapour whilst they are boiling; after which you must keep constantly stirring until they are reduced to a mar- malade, then add to it half a not of apri- cot marmalade. and continue noiling the whole until it flows readily, tlien pass it througii a hair sieve, and put the mar- malade intoapan,whicli mustbe covered with paper slightly buttered. Then form some crumb of bread into a semi- circle three inches in diameter and four in length. Envelope this bread in moist- ened paper, and place it in the middle ofa dish, and mask it in your apple mar- malade (the marmalade should be cold), placing It in such a manner as to form a