C R E C RE ( 190 ) Cream au Caramel au Bain Marie.* —Boil half a pound of sugar to caramel; pour a quarter of it into the bottom of a mould which has been buttered, and which must be placed on hot ashes, to allow the sugar to extend over the bottom of the mould ; dissolve the remainder of the caramel sugar with a glass of boiling water. When dissolved, mix it with five glasses of boiling milk, and afterwards with one whole egg, and ten yolks, aquar- ler of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix them together by degrees. Finish your preparation according to the direc- tions. See Cream au Bain Marie. Cream au Caramel Jlnisc au Bain Marie.*—Infuse a drachm of green, and the same of starred anise, in five glasses of boiling milk; keep jt covered ; and in the mean while boil six ounces of sugar, to caranael, which must then be dissolv- ed in a glass of boiling water. When the in- fusion is nearly cold, pour it to the sugar, and then mix both with ten yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt. Stir it well, and then proceed in the usual way. See Cream au Bain Marie. Cream d la Cardinale.*—Vom\& the shells of thirty boiled cray-fish; put them into some butter; mix them well together, till the whole is a fine red colour ; then pour on it a pint of boiling cream or milk (with a little sugar in it); boil them together for a quarter of an hour; pass it three times through a sieve; put to it the gizzards of two chickens; boil it for five minutes, to set it. Cream au Chapelet.—Boii a pint of cream, to reduce it to half, with lemon- peel, cinnamon, coriander-seed, sugar, and the skin of a fowl’s gizzard, chopped ; strain it; prepare a border for the dish, with some pounded chocolate, a spoonful of gum-dragon, melted thick, and sifted through a cloth; put fine sugar to it until it becomes a hard paste; roll bits of it into balls ; put them to dry, and garnish the dish round with them. The cream must be finished to your own taste ; the balls are joined together with caramelled sugar in the form of crosses, or any other, and made to stand up round the cream. Cream (Clotted).—Take four quarts of new milk, from the cow, and put it in a broad earthen pan, and let it stand till the next day; then put it over a very slow fire for half an hour; make it nearly hot to cream, then put it away till it is cold, and lake the cream off, and beat it smooth with a spoon. Cream {Clotted).—TaVc. two quarts of new milk, a pint of cream, and three spoonsful of rose-water. Put these to- gether into a large pan: set it over a charcoal fire, but not too not; let it stand twenty-four hours, and when you take it oir, loosen the edge of the cream round about with a knife; then take your board, lay the edges that are left beside the board; cut them into pieces, and put them into the dish first; then scrape sugar over them; take off' the cream with your boai'd as clean from the milk as you can, and lay it in the dish, and strew sugar over it. Cream (Clotted).—String four blades of mace on a thread; put them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonsful of rose- water ; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor, strained into the yolks of two new eggs, well beaten. Stir the whole into a quartof wery good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruit. Some persons prefer it without any flavour but that of cream ; in which case use a q^uart of new milk and the cream, or do it like the Devonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the coun- try they call the ring; and when that is seen, remove the pan from the fire. Cream Codling—Pare and core twenty codlings ; beat them in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine to it. Stir it well. Cream (Cold).—Take a pint of rhenish wine, and a good deal of fine sugar ; beat fine a quart of good cream, and a lemon cut round, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and a sprig of rosemary ; pour them all together; let them stand a while; and beat them up with a rod till tliey rise; take it off with a spoon as it rises: lay it in a pot or glass, and then serve. Cream dte Commissaire.*—Bone, and pound the meat of a roasted partridge, moistening it with a little consomme or veal gravy: then mix with it the yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, and spice, in powder; rub the whole through a sieve into a dish, and cook it in the iain marie. Cream {Crackling). — Beat up the yolks of as many eggs as will be suffi- cient for the quantity of cream you wish to make, pouring in milk as you beat them; then put in some rasped sugar and lemon-peel; set the dish upon a furnace, and keep continu.ally stirring till the cream begins to be made; slacken your fire ; stir the cream without inter-