( 159 ) cut C K I Chickens A In Rotmiite.*—Lard a fine fillet of veal, make a hole at one end laiye enough to contain a small stutted chicken, sew it up, and put it into a stew- pan, with a few slices of veal and ham, same parsley, shalots, two cloves, basil, stock and a little pepper; simmer it over a slow fire, when done, skina and strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and spread it over the fillet of veal, with a feather. Then put some cullis to the remains of the glaze, and strain it over the meat, and serve. Chickens au Romestic.—Cut as great a number of small slices of fillets of meat from a tender rabbit as you possibly can, and soak in oil, or melted butter, with chopped shalots, truffles, mushrooms, and parsley; season them with pepper, nutmeg, and salt; take the breast-bones from two chickens, so as not to break the skins, and fill them with the above, and sew it in; then having given them a turn in butter over the fire, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Chop up the bones and remains of the rabbit, and set them to simmer with some poul- try legs and pinions, half a glass of white wine, and three spoonsful of cullis; skim this sauce well, and strain it over the chickens. Chicken Salad.* — Cut cold_ roast fowl into small long pieces, taking off the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, at the bottom of a salad-bowl, put the chicken on it with all sorts of salading, gherkins, hard eggs cut in quarters, an- chovies, cut in slips, season with the usual salad dressing. Instead of a let- tuce, parsley and scallions, cut small, may be used. Chicken Salad A la Magnonnaise.*— Trim the fillets of six fat chickens, toss them in a little butter; then drain them in a napkin, press them lightly between two saucepan lids, and let them cool; in the meantime, dress the twelve fillets viignons A la Conti, with truffles _ or tongue A I’ecarlate, place them in a dish, cutting them in the form of a horse-shoe, then let them cool. Cut six lettuces small, season them in the usual way, and lay the salad on a table-dish, form it into a sort of crown, upon which arrange your fillets alternately, first a large one, then one, A la Conti. Surround the whole with a border of aspic jelly. Pour into the centre of your crown a magnon- naiso ravigotte.' Chickens Salad, A la Tfeiwe.*—Roast 1 four fine plump chickens, and when cold I cut them in pieces; toss them up in an I earthen pan with salt, a mignonnette, oil, 1 vinegar, parsley, an onion or shalot cut I small, cover them with paper, and leave them in this for some hours. Boil eight eggs (as nearly the same size as possible) hard, and cool them in taking olT the shells. Wash six lettuces, take oil the leaves, keeping the hearts quite small ; cut the leaves a.s fine as you can, se.ason them as for common salad, and lay them on a table-dish; then having drained the chickens, and separated them from the parsley. &c. lay the legs on the let- tuce leaves en couronnc, in the centre of which place the wings; on the_legs put the rumps and two of the breasts ; on these the fillets as close as possible, lay- ing them alternately flat and upright; and on the top of the fillets the two breasts which remain; be careful in keep- ing this dish as high and upright as pos- sible. Cut the hard eggs each into eight pieces, put them round the dish as a bor- der, and between every piece set upright a lettuce heart; and on the top of all lay the half of an egg, with a lettuce heart in the middle. Then mix together a good pinch of chervil, some tarragon and pimpernel leaves, scalded, and shred small,salt, pepper,oil, ravigotte vinegar, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. Amalga- mate the whole well, and pour it over the salad. Chicken Sausages.—Make two farces, one of bread crumbs, roasted breast of fowl, calf’s udder, marrow, baked onions, parsley, shalots, mushrooms, all chopped very fine, mixed together with a spoon- ful of brandy, a little cream, and the yolks of five eggs; make the other of scalded sweetbread, livers, mushrooms, season both with spices, salt and pepper. Split a couple of chickenS through tire backbone, and lay in each half, some of the first mentioned farce, and on that some of the second, roll them up, tie, and braise them with a glass of white wine, the same of stock and some bacon. When done, let them cool; then put tbe rest of the farce round them, wrap them in caul, dip them in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and bake them. Strain, and mix some cullis and lemon- juice with the liquor in which tlie chickens were braised, and serve it with them. Chicken Scalloped.—Mince some cold chicken, and heat it up with a little cream, pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; put this into scallop-shells, and cover them with bread-covers; put some butter over, and brown them. Chickens in the Scotch manner.—Cut your chickens into quarters, put them into a saucepan, with only just water enough to cover them, a bunch of parsley, some chopped parsley, and a little mace, cover them close down, when it boils, add p .T ’