( 463 ) i S Y L S U G Another caramel is frequently used by the confectioner, and is of a deep colour; it is made by pnttinK a little water to the sugar, and boiling it without skimming, !■ or otherwise touching the sugar, till of the right colour, then take it oll'and use immediately. If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to miss the right point, add a little cold water, and boil once more. ] Observa/ions.—The skiuimer should never be left in tlie preserving-pan after the sugar is clarified, nor after the scum [i is removed. i Be very careful not to stir or disturb the sugar, as that would cause its dimi- nution. j In boiling the sugar (particularly the M two last degrees), the sugar is continually rising and falling; and on falling, leaves marks on the sides of the pan, which the heat of the fire would soon burn, and thereby spoil the wliole of the sugar ; to avoid this, have by the side of you a pan of cold water, and a sponge, with which wipe the sides of the pan carefully, the instant after the sugar has fallen. I SuGAa d la Neige.*—Blanch a quarter j of a pound of bitter almonds, pound them to a very fine paste in a marble mortar, with the whites of four eggs; when per- I fectly smooth, add a pound of the best .] lump sugar (in powder), and five or six more whites of eggs; stir all together I well, until of such consistence that it I may be kneaded without adhering to the liands. Divide this preparation into two parts, one of which, tinge of a red colour, '! either with bolus armena, or cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of roses i; or bergamot; leave the other portion of I paste white, but flavour it as follows ,1 grate the rind of two fine sound lemons i| on a small piece of sugar, scrape off the I surface, and when pounded in a small mortar, work it into the uncoloured por- 'I tion of sugar-paste, then roll it out to il about half an inch in thickness (having I previously sprinkled the slab with pow- der-sugar), cut it with a tin paste-cutter i about two inches diameter; arrange them on white paper, whicli place on a baking ; tin, and put them into a moderate oven I for about three-quarters of an hour; I proceed in the same manner with the I coloured'paste. When cold, detach them from the paper. I Sugar Pasfe.—Take a pound of flour, 1 a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter ' of a pound of butter, a little salt, one egg ; mix all together with a little water. This paste may be used for any second- course dish. Sugar Vinegar.—To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil, and skim it thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, but not cold, put into it a toast spread with yeast; stir it for nine days, at the end of which time barrel it, and place it in such a situation that the sun may lie on it; put a slate on the bung-hole. The_ best time to make it is in March; it will be fit for use in six months. Wlren sufficiently sour, it should be bottled, or it may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. SWEETBREADS. — (See under the articles, Veal, Beef, &c.) Sweetbread Pie.—Lay a puff’ paste, half an inch thick, at the bottom of a deep dish, and put a forcemeat round the sides; cut three or four sweetbreads in pieces, according to the size of the pie, lay them in fir.^t, then some artichoke- bottoms, each cut into four parts; then some cocks’-combs, a few ti umes, morels, asparagus-top.', and mushrooms, yolks of hard boiled egg.', and forcemeat balls; season with pepper and salt; nearly fill the pie with water, put on the lid, and let it bake for two hours. Thicken some veal gravy with a little cream and flour, and pour into the pie when baked. SWEETMEATS, Brown.* — These sweetmeats may be made with the cut- tings and remains of any kind of sugars or candied articles, and even of spiced bread; pound whatever ingredients you intend to use, extremely fine, and pass the powder through a tammy on to the table ; in the centre of this heap make a hollow, into which put as many eggs as may be necessary to form a paste, then cinnamon, cloves, and bolus armena, all reduced to an impalpable powder ; use only a sufficient quantity of the latter to give the paste a clear cinnamon colour ; sugar may be added, if required. Work all the above, ingredients together into a firm paste with a little flour, then roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out of it, with tin paste-cutters, figures of any kind you may think proper; place them on white paper, and hake them for half an hour. When done, decorate them according to your taste. Sweetmeat Pudiling.—^Wce thin, of orange, lemon-peel, ai\d citron, an otinc.e each ; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lined with a light pufl-paste; ntix with half a pound of butter melted, the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of two, and five omices of sugar ; pour this over the siyeetmeats, and set it in tlte oven ; it will take rather more than half an hour baking. SYLLABUBS.*-Take the juice of a