CAR CAR ( )24 ) boil some syrup h quarter of an liour, and mix it wiili tlie starch; take some gum arabic, put it into some water, tlien put lliat into another pan, and make it just warm; have an iron-pot with char- coal fire under the large pan, but not too hot, only just to keep the pan warm ; have a large tub to put your pot of fire at bottom, and your large pan must be on the top; put tlie carraway seeds into your pan; add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them >vith your hands until you find they are all dry, then put a ladleful of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan of fire, until you find they are all dry ; put the gum only three or four times to them at first, then the starch and sugar, but boil your syrup more as you find they come to coat with it, and not so much starch; when you have dried them seven or eight times, put them into your sieve; put them into the stove, do them the next day, and so, successively, for six or seven days. Carhaw AY Dragees.*—Takeany quan- tity of carraway seeds you think proper, put them into a preserving-pan, and when quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the size you wish ; then proceed as directed for Almond Dragees. Carraway Pvffs.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a solid froth ; add to them sifted sugar and some carraway seeds, pounded very fine; put the mixture, with a spoon, in pieces about the size of a shilling, as high as you can, on sheets of damp wafer paper, and bake them in a slack oven. Carraway JVater.—Take three gal- lons of proof spirits, and half a gallon of water; add to them half a pound of car- raway seeds, bruised ; distil and sweeten the juice with a pound and a half of brown sugar. CARROTS,—If young, need only be wiped when boiled ; if old, they must be scraped before boiling. Slice them into a disn, and pour melted butter over them. Carrots, av, beurre.*—Scrape ten or twelve carrots, as near of a size as possi- ble ; cut them into thin slices, blanch them in water with salt and a small piece of butter. When done, drain them in a cullender, and then put them into a stewpan with a good bit of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, shake them over the fire, pour to them a spoonful of veloiite,or water only, to prevent the but- ter from oiling; do noc let it quite boil. You may add fine herbs, if you please. Carrot CnAre.*—Take a dozen large and very red carrots; scrape and boil them in water with a little salt; when done, drain them, take out the hearts. and rub the rest through a bolting; pnt them in a stewpan. and dry them over the fire. Make a cream pdlissiere, with about half a pintof milk; and when done mix it with the carrots ; add a pinch of minced orange-flowers praUnee, three quarters of a pound ol powder-sugar, four whole eggs; put in,one at a time, the yolks of six more, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter; mix all these ingredients together well; whip up the six whites to a froth, and stir them in by degrees. Butter a mould, and put some crumb of bread in it, in a minute or two, turnout all the bread, and three quarters of an hour before the cake is wanted, pour the preparation into the mould and bake it. Serve it hot. Carrots dressed the Dutch way.— Slice some carrots very thin, and just cover them with water; season them with pepper and salt, cut a good many onions and parsley small, a piece of butter; let them simmer over a slow fire till done. Carrots d la Flamunde.—Peel and parboil some small carrots, then put them into a stewpan with butter and salt; let them stew over a slow fire till done ; then take them off, and after stir- ring them up with more butter, serve them. Carrott Fritters.—Beat two or three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon ; add to them six eggs and a handful of flour; moisten them with either cream, milk, or white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all together well, and fry in boiling lard. When of a good colour, take them off and squeeze on them the juice of a Se- ville orange, and strew over fine sugar. Carrots (Garniture of).*—Cut fine carrots into pieces about an inch in length, in the form of mushrooms, gar- lick, or any thing else you may like; blanch them in boiling water with salt and butter, take them out and put them into a stewpan with stock, or consommee and fine sugar; stew it to a glaze, and if ^our sauce be not thick enough, add a little butter mixed with flour, herbs, and SRWcotournee. Serve with fried crusts. Carrots, d la d’Orleans.—7'ake a few young carrots, turn them of an equal size, and cut them in slices about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and blanch them well. Next, lay tiiem on a cloth to drain ; put them into a stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little broth, and let them boil over a large fire; when reduced to glaze, add a good bit of fresh butter and a little salt. The butter must adhere to the carrots ivben you serve, as nosauce ought to be seen. Carrot Pudding.—Boil a large carrot tender, then bruise it in a marble mortar.