i // rAe University Library J f Leeds The John F. Preston Collection of Cookery Books The Gift of Mr. Preston LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark; (SOftfl h I III III II 11 0106 01122 8045 IW K-if ,Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://arch ive .-o rg/detai is/b21529371f*ELIZABETH TRAEEALID -T^~=r Publithed as the. let directs, bvRJdahhyi/i. ji,7id\ . ip-tla.THE EXPERIENCED Englilh Houfekeeper, For the^ U S E and EASE of Ladies, Houfekeepers, Cooks, &c. Written purely from PRACTICE, AND DEDICATED TO THE Hon. tADY ELIZABETH WARBURTON, Whom the Author lately ferved as Ploufekeeper : Confifting of near Nine hundred Original Receipts, moft of which never appeared in Print. PART I. Lemon Pickle, Browning for all Sorts of made Diflies, Soups, Fifli, Plain Meat, Game, Made Diflies both hot and cold, Pyes, Puddings, &c. PA.RT II. All Kinds of Confec- tionary, particularly the Gold and Silver Web for covering of Sweet-^' meats, and a Dcllert of Spun Sugar with Direflions to fetout a Table» in the molt elegant Manner, and! in the modern Tafte; Floating Iflands, Fifh-Ponds, Tranfparent Puddings, Trifles, Whips, &c. PART III; Pickling, Potting, and Collaring,Wines, Vinegars, Catch- ups, Diftilling, with two moft va- luable Receipts, one for refining Mtilt Liquors, the other for curing Acid Wines, and a corredl Lift of every Thing in Seafon for every Month in the Year.- THE TENTH e‘dIT10'n. WITH AN ENGRAVED HEAD OF THE AUTHOR j Alfo Two Plans of a Grand Table of Two Covers ; and A curious new invented Fire Stove, wherein any common Fuel may bs burnt inftead of Charcoal. By ELIZA — 'Xz. BETH RAFF ALD.’ LONDON: PRINTED FOR R, BALDWIN NO. 47, IN PATER-NOSTER-ROW, MDCCLXXXVI.uwvEsstn utiuiir U£MTo THE HONOURABLE LADY ELIZABETH WARBURTON. Permit me, honoured Madam, to lay before you a work, for which I am ambitious of obtaining your Lady- Ihip’s approbation, as much as to oblige a great number of my friends, who are well acquainted with the pradlice I have had in the art of Cookery, ever fince I left your Ladyfbip’s family, and have often follicited me to publifh for the in- ftrudlion of their houfekeepers. As I flatter myfelf I had the happinefs of giving fatisfadtion, during my fervice. Madam, in your family, it vvould be a ftill greater encouragement, fhould my endeavours for the fervice of my fex be honoured with the favourable opinion of fo good a judge of propriety and elegance as your Ladyfhip. I am not vain enough to propofe adding any thing to the Experienced A 2 Houfe-DEDICATION. Houfekeeper, but hope thefe receipts (written purely from pradlice) may be of ufe to young perfons who are willing to improve themfelves. • I rely on your Ladyfhip’s candour, and whatever Ladies favour this book with reading it, to excufe the plainnefs of the ftyle ; as, in compliance .with the dehre of my friends, I have ftudied to exprefs myfelf fo as to be underftood by the meaneft capacity, and think myfelf . happy in being allowed the honour of fubferibing, MADAM, Your Ladyfhip’s Moft dutiful, / Moft obedient, And moft humble Servant, ELIZABETH RAFFALD.Preface to the Firfl Kdition. WH E N I refle(5l upon the number of books already in print upon this fub- je<5l, and with what contempt they are read I cannot but be apprehenhve that this may meet the fame fate from fome, who will cen- fure before they either fee it or try its value. Therefore the only favour I have to beg the publick is, not to cenfure my work before they have made trial of fome one receipt, which I am perfuaded, if carefully followed, will an- fwer their expectations j as I can faithfully af- fure my friends, that they are truly written from my own experience, and not borrowed from any other author, nor gloifed over with hard names, or words of high ftile, but written in my own plain language, and every fheet care- fully perufed as it came from the prefs, having an opportunity of having it printed by a neigh- bour, whom I can rely on doing it the ftrideft juftice, without the lead alteration. The whole work being now completed to ^y wifhes, I think it my duty to render my moft fincere and grateful thanks to my moll noble and worthy friends, who have already Ihown their good opinion of my endeavours to ferve my fex, by railing me fo large a fubfcrip- tion, which far exceeds my expectations. I have not only been honoured by having above eight hundred of their names inferted in my fubfcrip- tion, but alfo have had all their intered: in .this laborious undertaking, which I have at lad ar- rived to the happinefs of completing, though .5 att « ] at the expence of my health, by being to«i ftiidious, and giving too clofe application. The only anxious wifh I have left is, that my worthy friends may find it ufeful in their families, and bean inftrudtor to the young and ignorant as it has been my chiefefl: care to write in as plain aftileas poffible, fo as to be under- flood by the weakefl capacity* I am not afraid of being called extravagant, if my reader does not think that I have erred on the frugal hand. I have made it my fiudy to pleafe both the eye and the palate, without ufing pernicious things for the fake of beauty. ' And though I have given fome of my difhes French names as they are only known by thofe names, yet they will not be found very expenfive, nor add compofitions but as plain as the nature of the difh will admit of. The receipts for the confedionary are fuch as I daily fell in my own fhop, which any Lady may examine at pleafure, as I flill continue my befl endeavours to give fatisfadion to all who are pleafed to favour me with their cuflom. It may be neceffary to inform my readers, that I have fpent fifteen years in great and worthy families, in the capacity of a houfe- keeper, and had an opportunity of travelling with them ; but finding the common fervants generally fo ignorant in dreffing meat, and a good cook fo hard to be met with, put me upon fludying the art of cookery, more than perhaps I other- 1[ m ] I otherwife fhould have done; always endeavour- ing to join cEconomy with neatnefs and elegance, being fenfible what valuable qualifications thefe are in a houle-keeper or cook ; for of what ufe is their Ikill, if they put their mafter or lady to an immoderate expence in dreffing a dinner for a fmall company, when at the fame time a prudent manager would have drelfed twice the number of diflies for a much greater company, at half the cofi:, I have given no diredlions for cullis, as I have found by experience, that lemon pickle and browning anfwers both for beauty and tafie (at a trifling expence) better than cullis, which is extravagant: for had I known the ufe and value of thofe two receipts when I firfl; took upon me the part and duty of a houfe-keeper, it,would have faved me a great deal of trouble in making gravy, and thofe I ferved a deal of expence. The number of receipts in this book are not fo numerous as in fome others, but they are what will be found ufeful and fufficient for any gentleman’s family—neither have I meddled with phyfical receipts, leaving them to the phyficians fuperior judgment, whofe proper |)rovince they are. DefcriptlonT)eJcnption of the PLATE, H E Plate is the dehgn of three ftove-fires for the kitchen that will burn coals or embers inftead of char- coal (which I always found expenfive, as well as pernicious to the cooks) and will carry off the fmoke of the coals and fleam, and fmell of the pots' and ftew pans j the coals are burnt in call iron pots, flat at the bottom, with bars. AA, Fronts of the ftove. BB, Top of the ftove, which is covered 3II over with caft iron. CC, Stove-pots, in which the fire Is made. D, The form of the pot, with two vents caft in them, HH in the pot, and to let the fmoke through at HH in the flues. ' EE, Carried from there through the back wall to the fix inches deep at the top, and three wide, as exprefTed at kitchen chimney, as exprefled in the lower plan. FP', Back wall G, The chimney breaft, betwixt which and the back wall the fteam rifes, and goes off" into the kitchen chimney by vent made into it. II, Draughts for the fires, and to receive the afhes, ^ The fcale tyill give the dimenfions. HH, Vents in the pot. I1**» ‘»vk^C. S jK 'isW « ^f^ji THE EXPERIENCED Englifti Houfe-Keeper. r'^y^^.yso^ he Nyou make any kind of foups, particularly portable, vermicelli, or ^ brown gravy foup, or any other that jfl( has roots or herbs in, always obferve to lay your meat in the bottom of your pan with a good lump of butter ;,^ut the herbs and roots fmall, lay them over your meat, cover it clofe, fet it over a very flow Are, it will draw all the virtue out of the roots or ■herbs, and turn it to a good gravy, and give the foup a very different flavour from putting water in at the firfl;: when your gravy is al- mofl: dried up fill your pan with water, when it begins to boil take off the fat, and follow the directions of your receipt for what fort of foup you are making : when you make old peas foup take foft water, for green peas hard is the befl, it keeps the peas a better colour : when you make any white foup don’t put in cream till you take it off the fire: always difli up your foups the laft thing j if it be a CHAP I. B gravy2 THE EXPERIENCED gravy foup will fkin over if you let it Eand ; if it be a peas foup it often fettles, and the top looks thin. ^0 make Portable Soup for T^ravellers. TAKE three large legs of veal, and one of beef, the lean part of half a ham, cut them in fmall pieces, put a quarter of a pound of but- ter at the bottom of a large cauldron, then lay in the meat and bones, with four ounces of anchovies, two ounces of mace, cut off the green leaves of five or fix heads of celery, wafii the heads quite clean, cut them fmall, put them in with three large carrots cut thin, cover the cauldron clofe, and fet it over a moderate fire ; when you find the gravy begins to draw, keep taking it up till you have got it all out, then put water in to cover the meat, fet it on the fire again and let it boil flowly for four hours, then ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clean pan, and let it boil three parts away, then ftrain the gravy that you drew from the meat into the pan, let it boil gently (and keep fcumming the fat off very clean as it rifes) till it looks thick like glue j you muft take great care when it is near enough that it don’t burn j put in Chyan pepper to your tafte, then pour it on flat earthen difhes, a quaiter of an inch thick, and let it ftand till the next day, and cut it out with round tins a little larger than a crown piece; lay the cakes on difhes, and fet them in the fun to dry; this foup will anfwer beft to be made in frofty weather ; when the cakes are dry, put them in a tin box with writing paper be- I twixt ■%p:nglish house-keeper. 3 twixt every cake, and keep them in a dry place} this is a very ufeful foup to be kept in gentle- men’s families, for by pouring a pint of boil- ing water on one cake, and a little lalt, it will make a good bafon of broth. A little boiling’ water poured on it will make gravy for a turkey or fowls, the longer it is kept the bet- ter. N. B. Be careful to. keep turning the cakes as they dry. "7o make a Transparent Soup. * TAKE -a leg of veal, and cut off the meat as thin as you can j when you have cut off all the meat clean from the bone, break the bone in fmall pieces, put the meat in a large jug, and the bones at top, with a bunch of fweet herbs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half a pound of Jordan almonds blanched and beat fine, pour on it four quarts of boiling water, let it Rand all night by the fire covered clofe, the next day put it into a well tinned fauce-pan, and let it boil flowly till it is reduced to two quarts; be fure you take the fcum and fat off as it rifes, all the time it is boiling ; ftrain it into a punch bowl, let it fettle for two hours, pour it into a clean fauce-pan clear from the fediments, if any at the bottom ; have ready three ounces of rice boiled in water; if you like vermicelli better, boil two ounces, when enough, put it in and ferve it up. 7o make ^ Hare Soup. CUT a large old hare in fmall pieces, and put it in a mug with three blades of mace, a B 2 little4 THE EXPERIENCED little fait, two large onions, one red herring, lix morels, half a pint of red wine, three quarts of water, bake it in a quick oven three hours, than Rrain it into a toffing-pan, have ready boiled three ounces of French barley, or fago, in water j fcald the liver of the hare in boiling water two minutes ^ rub it through a hair lieve with the back of a wooden fpoon, put it into the foup with the barley or fago, and a quarter of a pound of butter, fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it but don’t let it boil; if you don’t like liver, put in crifped bread fiieepedin red wine. This is a rich foup, and proper for a large entertainment; and where two foups are - required, almond or onion foup for the top, and the hare foup for the bottom. a rich Vermicelli Soup. INTO a large tofling-pan put four ounces of butter, cut a knuckle of veal, and a fcrag of mutton into fmall pieces, about the fize of walnuts; (lice in the meat of a (hank of ham, with three or four blades of mace, two or three carrots, two parfnips, two large onions, with a clove ftuck in at each end, cut in four or five heads of celery wafhed clean, a bunch of fweet herbs, eight or ten morels, and an an- chovy ; cover the pan clofe up, and fet it over a flow tire, without any water, till the gravy is drawn out of the meat, then pour the gravy out into a pot or bafon, let the meat brown in the fame pan, and take care it don’t burn, then pour in four quarts of water, let it boil gently till it is walled to three pints, then Itraiii it, and put IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 5 put the other gravy to it, fet it on the fire, add to it two ounces of vermicelli, cut the nicefl part of a head of celery, Chyan pepper and fait, to your taftc, and let it boil for four minutes; if not a good colour, put in a little browning, lay a fmall French roll in the foup difh, pour in the foup upon it, and lay fome of the vermicelli over it. To make an Ox Cheek Soup. FIRST break the bones of an ox cheek, and wafh it in many waters, then lay it in warm water, throw in a little fait to fetch out the Ilime, wafh it out very well, than take a large ftew-pan, put two ounces of butter at the bottom of the pan, and lay the flefh fide of the cheek down, add to it half a pound of a fhank ®f ham cut in flices, and four heads of celery, pull off the leaves, wafh the heads clean, and cut them in with three large onions, two car- rots, and one parfnip fliced, a few beets cut fmall, and three blades of mace, fet it over a moderate fire a quarter of an hour j this draws the virtue from the roots, which gives a pleafant Rrength to the gravy. I have made a good gravy by this method, with roots and butter, only adding a little browning to give it a pretty colour: when the head has fimmered a quarter of an hour, put to it fix quarts of water, and let it flew till it is re- duced to two quarts : if you would have it eat like foup, flrain and take out the meat and other ingredients, and put in the white part of a head of celery cut in fmall pieces, with a little ^ 3 browning6 THE EXPERIENCED browning to make it a fine colour, take two ounces of vermicelli, give it a fcald in thefoup, and put the top of a f'rench roll in the middle of a tureen, arid ferve it up. If you would have it eat like flew, take up the face as whole as poffible, and have ready cut in fquare pieces, a boiled turnip and carrot, a flice of bread toafted and cut in fmall dices, put in a little Chyan pepper, and ftrain the foup through a hair fieve upon the meat, carrot, tur- nip, and bread, to ferve it up. To make Almond Soup. TAKE a neck of veal, and the fcrag end of a neck of mutton, chop them in fmall pieces, put them in a large tolling pan, cut in a turnip,^ with a blade or two of mace, and five quarts of water, fet it over the fire, and let it boil gently till it is reduced to two quarts, ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clear pot, then put in fix ounces of almonds blanched and beat fine, half a pint of thick cream, and Chyan pepper to your tafte, have ready three fmall French rolls, made for that purpofe, the fize of a fmall tea- cup 3 if they are larger they will not look well, .and drink up too much of the foup; blanch a few Jordan almonds, and cut them lengthways, flick them round the edge of the rolls flant- ways, then flick them all over the top of the rolls, and put them in the tureen ; when diflied up pour the foup upon the rolls : thefe rolls look like a hedge-hog : fome French cooks give this foup the.name of hedge-hog foup.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 7 To 7nake Soup a-la-i~eine, TAKE a knuckle of veal, and three or four pounds of lean beef, put to it fix quarts of water with a little fait, when it boils fcum it well, then put in fix large onions, two large carrots, a head or two of celery, a parfnip, one leek, and a little thyme, boil them all together till the meat is boiled quite down, then flrain it through a hair fieve, and let it hand about half an hour, then fcum it well, and clear it off gently from the fet- tlings into a clear pan; boil half a pint of cream, and pour it on the crumbs of a half-penny loaf, and let it foak well; take half a pound of al- monds, blanch and beat them as fine as poffible, putting in now and then a little cream to pre- vent them from oiling, then take the yolks of fix hard eggs, and the roll that is foaked in the cream, and beat them all together quite fine, then make your broth hot and pour it to your almonds, firain it through a fine hair fieve, rub- bing it with a fpoon till all the gcodnefs is gone through into a ftew-pan, and add more cream to make it white; fet it over the fire, keep flirting it till it boils, fcum off the froth as it rifes, foak the tops of two French rolls in melted but- ter in a flew-pan till they are crifp, but not brown, then take them out of the butter, and lay them on a plate before the fire ; and, a quarter of an hour before you fend it to the table take a little of the foup hot, and put it to the roll in the bottom of the tureen, put your foup on the fire, keep flirring it till ready to boil, then pour it into your tureen, and ferve B 4 it /S THE EXPERIENCED it up hot; be fure you take all the fat off the broth before you put it to the almonds, or it will fpoil it, and take care it does not curdle, *To 7nake Onion Soup. BOIL eight or ten large Spanilh onions in milk and water, change it three times, wheri they are quite foft, rub them through a hair lieve, cut an old cock in pieces, and boil it for gravy with one blade of mace, drain it, and pour it upon the pulp of the onions, boil it gently with the crumb of an old penny loaf, grated into half a pint of cream; add Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte: a few heads of afparagus or dewed fpinage, both make it eat well and look very pretty : grate a crud of brown bread round the edge of the didi, To make White Onion Soup. TAKE thirty large onions, boil them in five quarts of water with a knuckle of veal, a blade or two of mace, and a little whole pepper; when your onions are quite foft take them up, and rub them through a hair fieve, and work half a pound of butter with flour in them; when the meat is boiled fo as to leave the bone, drain the liquor to the onions, and boil it gently for half an hour, ferve it up with a coffee cup full of cream and a little fait, be fure you dir it when you put in the flour and butter, for fear of its burning.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 9 To make Brown Onion Soup. SKIN and cut round ways in flices fix large ISpanilh onions, fry them in butter till they are a nice brown,-and very tender, then take them, out and lay them on a hair fieve to drain out the butter, when drained put them in a pot with five quarts of boiling water, boil them one hour and ftir theni often, then add pepper and fait to your tafte, rub the 'crumbs of a penny loaf through a cullender, put it to the ioup, fiir it well to keep it from being in lumps, and boil it two hours more j ten minutes before you fend it up beat the yolks of two eggs, with two fpoon- fuls of vinegar, and a little of the foup, pour it in by degrees, and keep fliirring it all the time one way, put in a few cloves if you choofe it.—- JSf. B. It is a fine foup, and will keep three or four days. To make Green Peas Soup. SHELL a peck of peas, and boil them in fpring water till they are foft, then work them through a hair fieve, take the water that your peas were boiled in, and put in a knuckle of veal, three flices of ham, and cut two carrots, a turnip, and a few beet leaves flared fmall, ' add a little more water to the meat, fet it over the fire, and let it boil one hour and a half; then ftrain the gravy into a bowl and mix it with the pulp, and put in a little juice of fpi- nage, which mufl: be beat and fqueezed through a cloth, put in as much as will make it look a 5 pretty10 THE EXPERIENCED pretty colour, then give it a gentle boil, which ■will take off the tafte of the fpinage, flice in the whiteft part of a head of celery, put in a lump of fugar the fize of a walnut, take a flice of bread and cut it in little fquare pieces, cut a little bacon the fame way, fry them a light brown in frefli butter, cut a large cabbage lettuce in fliccs, fry it after the other, put it in the tu- reen with the fried bread and bacon : have ready boiled as for eating a pint of young peas, and put them in the foup, with a little chopped mint if you like it, and pour it into your tureen. make a Common Peas Soup. TO one quart of fplit peas put four quarts of foft water, a little lean bacon, or roaft beef bones, wa£h one head of celery, cut it and put it in with a turnip, boil it till reduced to two quarts, then work it through a cullendar, with a wooden fpoon, mix a little flour and water, and boil it well in the foup, and flice in another head of celery, chyan pepper and fait to your tafle 3 cut a flice of bread in fmall dice, fry them a light brown, and put them in your difli, then pour the foup upon it. make a Peas Soup for Lent\ PUT three pints of blue boiling peas into five quarts of foft cold water, three anchovies, ,three red herrings, and two large onions, flick in a clove at each end, a carrot and a parfnip fliced in, with a bunch of fweet herbs, boil ' themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. it them all together, till the foup is thick, ftraiii it through a cullendar, then jflice in the white part of a head of celery, a good lump of butter, a little pepper and fait, a dice of bread toafted and buttered well, and cut in little diamonds, put it into the diih, and pour the foup upon it, and a little dried mint if you choofe it. ^ Gravy Soup thickened with Yellow Peas. PUT a fliin of beef to fix quarts of water, with a pint of peas and fix onions, fet them over the fire, and let them boil gently till all the juice be out of the meat, then ftrain it through a fieve, add to the ftrained liquor one quart of llrong gravy to make it brown, put in pepper and fait to your tafte, then put in a little celery, and beet leaves, and boil it till they are tender. To make a White Peas Soup. TO four or five pounds of lean beef and fix quarts of water put in a little fait, when it boils jfcum it, and put in two carrots, three whole onions, a little thyme, and two heads of celery, with threequarts of old green peas, boil them till the meat is quite tender, then drain it through a hair feve, 'and rub the pulp of the peas through the fieve, fplit the blanched part of three gofs lettuces into four quarters, and cut them about one inch long, with a little mint cut fmall, then put half a pound of butter in a flew pan that will hold your foup, and put the lettuce and mint into the butter with a leek diced very thin, and a pint of green peas, flew thenx a quarterS2 THE EXPERIENCED a quarter of an hour, and keep fliaking them often about, then put in a little of the foup, and flew them a quarter of an hour longer; then put in your foup and as much thick cream as will make it white, keep ftirring it till it boils ; fry a French roll in butter a little crifp, put it in the bottom of the tureen, and pour your foup ovcrit. Tt? make Green Peas Soup without Meat. IN fhelling your peas feparate the old ones from the young,and boil theold ones foft enough to flrain through a culiendar, then put the liquor and what you ftrained through to the young peas, which muft be whole, and fome whole pepper, mint, a little onion fhred fmall, put them in a large fauce-pan, with near a pound of butter, as they boil up lhake in fome flour, then put in a’French roll fried in butter, to the foup ; you mufl feafon it to your tafle with fait, and herbs, when you have done fo, add the young peas to it, which muft be half boiled firfl:; you may leave out the flour if you don’t like it, and inftead of it put in a little fpinage, and cabbage lettuce, <:ut fmall, which muft be firft fried in butter, and well mixed with the broth. ’To make an excellent White Soup. TO fix quarts of water put in a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, and a pound of lean bacon, and half a pound of rice, with two anchovies, a few pepper corns, two or three onions, a bundle of fweet herbs, three or four heads of celery 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. celery in flices, ftew all together, till your foup is as ftrong as you choofe it, then ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clean earthen pot, let it ftand all night, then take off the fcum, and pour it clear off into a tolling pan, put in half a pound of Jordan almonds beat fine, boil it a little and run it through a lawn fieve, then put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. Make it hot, and fend it to the table. ^0 make'WHIT'S. Soup a fecond Way, BOIL a knuckle of veal and a fowl, with a little mace, two onions, a little pepper and fait, to a ftrong jelly, then ftrain it and fcum off all the fat, have ready the yolks of fix eggs well beat, put them in and keep ftirring it or it will curdle, put it in yourdiih with boiled chickens and toalled bread cut in pieces j if you do not like the eggs, you may put in a large handful of vermicelli half an hour before you take it off the fire. ^0 make Craw-Fish Soup. BOIL half a hundred of frelh craw-filh, pick out all the meat, which you mufi: fave, take a frefii lobfier and pick out all the meat, which you mufi: likewife fave, pound the fliells of the craw-filh and lobfier fine in a marble mortar, and boil them in four quarts of water with four pounds of mutton, a pint of green fplit peas,, nicely picked and wafhed, a large turnip, car- rot, onion, mace, cloves, anchovy, a little thyme, pepper, and fait. Stew them on a flow fire14 THE EXPERIENCED fire till all the goodnefs is out of the mutton and fliells, then ftrain it through a fieve, and put in the tails of your craw-filli and the lob- Rer meat, but in very fmall pieces, with the red coral of the lobfter, if it has any} boil it half an hour, and juft before you ferve it up, add a little butter melted thick and fmooth, ftir ' it round feveral times, when you put it in, fend it up very hot, but don’t put too much fpice in it. IV. B. Pick out all the bags and the woolly part of your craw-iifli before you pound them. V’o make Partridge Soup. TAKE oif the fkins of two old partridges, cut them into fmall pieces with three flices of ham, two or three onions diced and fome ce- lery, fry them in butter till they are as brown as they can be made without burning, then put them into three quarts of water with a few pepper corns, boil it flowly till a little more than a pint is confumed, then ftrain it, put in fome ftewed celery and fried bread. CHAP. II. Ohfervations on Dressing Fish. WHEN you fry any kind of fifh, wadi them clean, dry them well with a cloth, and duft them with flour, or rub them with egg and bread crumbs; be fure your dripping, hoe’s-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. hog’s-lard, or beef fuet, is boiling before you put in your fifli, they will fry hard and clear, butter is apt to burn them black, and make them foft; when you have fried your fifli, always lay them in a difli or hair fieve to drain, before you difh them up; boiled fidi fliould always be wafhed. and rubbed carefully with a little vinegar, be- fore they are put into the water; boil all kinds of h(h very flowly, and when they will leave the bone they are enough ; when you take them up fet your fifh plate over a pan of hot water to drain, and cover it with a cloth or clofe cover, to prevent it from turning their colour; fet your fifh-plate in the inlide of your difli, and fend it up, and when you fry parfley, be fure you pick it nicely, wa(h it well, then dip it in cold water, and throw it into a pan of boiling fat, take it out immediately, it will be very crifp and a fine green. To drcfs a Turtle of a hundred Weights CUT off the head, take care of the blood, and take off all the fins, lay them in fait and water, cut off the bottom fliell, then cut off the meat that grows to it, (which is the callepee or fowl) take out the hearts, livers, and lights, and put them by themfelves, take out the bones ' and the flefli out of the back fhell (which is the callepafn) cut the flelhy part into pieces, about two inches fqnare, but leave the fat part, which looks green, (it is called the monfieur) rub it firft with fait, and walh it in feveral waters to make it come clean, then put in the pieces that you took out, with three bottles of Madeira wine.l6 THE EXPERIENCED v/ine, and four quarts of flrong veal gravy^ d lemon cut in dices, a bundle of fweet herbs, a tea-fpoonfulof Chyan, fix anchovies walhed and picked clean, a quarter of a pound of beaten mace, a tea-fpoonful of mufliroom powder, and half a pint of elfence of ham if you have it, lay over it a coarfe pafte, fet it in the oven for three hours; when it comes out, take off the lid and fcum off the fat, and brown it with a falamander.—"This is the hottom di^j. Then blanch the fins, cut them off at the firfi: joint, fry the firft pinions a fine brown, and put them into a tofiing pan with two quarts of Ifrong brown gravy, a glafs of red wine, and the blood of the turtle, a large fpoonful of le- mon pickle, the fame of browning, two fpoon- fuls of mufhroom catchup, Chyan and fait, an onion duck with cloves, and a bunch of fweet herbs; a little before it is enough, put in an ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, dew them gently over a dow fire for two hours; when they are tender, put them into another tofiing pan, thicken your gravy with flour and butter and drain it upon them, give them a boil and ferve them up. T“his is a corner dijld. Then take the thick or large part of the fins, blanch them in warm water, and put them in a tofiing pan, with three quarts of drong veal gravy, a pint of Madeira wine, half a tea- fpoonful of Chyan, a little fait, half a lemon, a little beaten mace, a tea fpoonful of mufh- room powder, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; let them dew till quite tender, they will take two hoursENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPEH. i/ hours at leaft, then take them up into another toffing pan, firain your gravy, and make it pretty thick with flour and butter, then put in a few boiled forcemeat balls, which mufl: be made of the veally part of your turtle, left out for thatpurpofe; one pint of frefli mulhrooms, if you cannot get them pickled ones will do, and eight artichoke bottoms boiled tender, and cut in quarters, (hake them over the fire five or fix minutes, then put in half a pint of thick cream, with the yolks of fix eggs beaten ex- ceeding well, fliake it over the fire again till it looks thick and white, but do not let it boil; difli up your fins with the balls, mulhrooms, and artichoke-bottoms over and round them. • T^his is the top dijh. Then take the chicken part, and cut it like Scotch collops, fry them a light brown, then put in a quart of veal gravy, llew them gently a little more than half an hour, and put to it the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, a few mo- rels, a fcore of oyflers; thicken your gravy, it mufl; be neither white nor brown, but a pretty gravy colour 3 fry fome oyfter patties and lay round it. 'This is a corner dijh to anfwer the fmalljins. Then take the guts (which is reckoned the befl; part of the turtle) rip them open, fcrape and wafli them exceeding well, rub them well with fait, wafli them through many waters, and cut them in pieces two inches long, then fcald the maw or paunch, take off the fldn, fcrape it well, cut it into pieces about half an inch broad and two inches long, put fome of C theTHE EXPERIENCED the fifhy part of your turtle in it, fet it over a flow charcoal fire, with two quarts of veal gravy, a pint of Madeira wine, a little mufh- room catchup, a few fhalots, a little Chyan, half a lemon, and flew them gently four hours, till your gravy is almoft confumed, then thick- en it with flour, mixed with a little veal gravy, put in half an ounce of morels, a few force- meat balls, made as for the fins; difh it up, and brown it with a falamander, or in the oven. ^his is the corner dijb. Then take the head, fkin it, and cut it in two pieces, put it into a ftew-p©t with all the bones, hearts, and lights, to a gallon of water, or veal broth, three or four blades of mace, one fhalot, a flice of beef beaten to pieces, and a bunch of fweet herbs, fet them in a very hot oven, and let it ftand an hour at leaf!:, when it comes out ftrain it into a tureen for the middle of the table. Then take the hearts and lights, chop them very fine, put them in a fliew-pan with a pint of good gravy, thicken it and ferve it up; lay the head in the middle, fry the liver, lay it round the head upon the lights, garnifh with whole'flices of lemon.' Tihis is the fourth corner dijh. N. B. The firfl: courfe fhould be of turtle only, when it is dreffed in this manner: but when it is with other victuals, it fliould be in three different difhes, but this way I have often dreffed them, and have given great fatisfa(ftion. Obferve to kill your turtle the night before you want it, or very early next morning, that you may have all your difhesENGLISH HOliSE-ltEEPER. 19 diflies going on at a time. Gravy for a turtle a hundred weight, will take two legs of veal, and two flianks of beef. To drefs Turtle about thirty pounds weight» WHEN you kill the turtle, which mufl: be done the night before, cut off the head, and let it bleed two or three hours, then cut off the hns and the callipee from the callipafh, take care you do not burft the gall, throw all the inwards into cold water, the guts and tripe keep by themfelves, and flit them open with a penknife, and wafh them' very clean in fcalding water, and fcrape off all the inward fldn; as you do them throw them into cold water, v/afh them out of that, and put them into frefh water, and let them lie all night, fcalding the fins and edges of the callipafh and callipee; cut the meat off the fhoulders and hack the bones, and fet them over the fire with the fins in about a quart of water, put in a little mace, nutmeg, Chyan, and fait, let it flew about three hours, then ftrain it and put the fins by for ufe, the next morning take fome of the meat you cut off the fhoulders, and chop it fmall as for faufages, with about a pound of beef or veal fuet, fea- foned with mace, nutmeg, fweet-marjoram, parfley, Chyan, and fait to your tafte, and tEree or four glaffes of Madeira wine, fo fluff it un- der the two flefliy parts of the meat, and if you have any left, lay it over to prevent the meat from burning, then cut the remainder of the meat and the fins in pieces the fize of an egg, C 2 feafon20 THE EXPERIENCED feafon it pretty high with Chyan, fait, and a little nutmeg, and put it into the callipalh, take care that it be fewed or fecured up at the end, to keep in the gravy, then boil up the gravy, and add more wine if required, and thicken it a little with butter and flour, put fome of it to the turtle, and fet it in the oven with a well buttered paper over it to keep it from burning, and when it is about half baked fqueeze in the juice of one or two lemons and ftir it up. Cal- lipafh or back will take half an hour more bake- ing than the callipee, which two hours will do; the guts mufl; be cut in pieces two or three inches long, the tripe in lefs, and put into a mug of clear water, and fet in the oven with the cal- lipafh, and when it is enough and drained from the water, it is to be mixed with the other parts and fent up very hot. To drefs a Cod’s Head and Shoulders. TAKE out the gills and the blood clean from the bone, wafli the head very clean, rub over it a little fait, and a glafs of allegar, then lay it on your fifh plate; when your water boils throw in a good handful of fait, with a glafs of allegar, then put in your fifh, and let it boil gently half an hour; if it is a large one three quarters; take it up very carefully, and ftrip the fkin nicely off, fet it before a brifk fire, dredge it all over with flour, and bafle it well with butter; when the froth begins to rife, throw over it fome very fine white bread crumbs; you mufl keep bailing it all the timeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. af time to make it froth well; when it is a fine white brovvn, difh it up, and garnifh it with a lemon cut in dices, fcraped horfe-radifh, bar- berries, a few fmall fifh fryed and laid round it, or fryed oyfters j cut the roe and liver in dices, and lay ©ver it a little of the lobfter out of the fauce in lumps, and then ferve it. 'To make Sauce for the Cod’s Head* TAKE a lobfter, if it be alive ftick a fkewer in the vent of the tail to keep the water out and throw an handful of fait in the water, when it boils put in the lobfter, and boil it half an hourj if it has fpawn on, pick them off, and pound them exceeding fine in a marble mortar, and put them into half a pound of good melted butter, then take the meat out of your lobfter, pull it in bits, and put it in your butter, with a meat fpoonful’ of lemon pickle, and. the fame of walnut catchup, a dice of an end of a lemon, one or two dices of horfe- radifh, as much beaten mace as will lie on a fix- pence, fait and Chyan to your tafte, boil them one minute, then take out the horfe-radifh and lemon, and ferve it up in your fauce-boat. N, B. If you can get no lobfter, you may make fhrimp, cockle, or mufcle fauce the fame way; if there can be no kind of fhell-fifh got, you then may add two anchovies cut fmall, a fpoonful of walnut liquor, a large onion ftuck with cloves, drain it and put it in the fauce- boat. c 3 Second22 THE EXPERIENCED Second 'way to drefs a Cod’s Head. TAKE out the gills and blood clean from the buck-bone, walh it well, and put it on your plate; when your water boils, put in twq handfuls of fait, and half a pint of allegar, it will make your fifh firmer, then put in the cod’s head; if it is of a middle fize, it will take an hour’s boiling; then take it up, and ftrip off the Ihin gently, dredge it well with flour, and lay lumps of butter on it; if it fuits you better, you may fend it to the oven, and if it is not brown all over, do it with a falamander: make your gravy fauce to it, and ferve it up. Tlo drefs young Codlins like Salt Fish. Take young codlins, gut and dry theni well with a cloth, fill their eyes full of fait, throw a little on the back-bonc, and let them lie all night, then hang them up by the tail a day or two: as you have occafion for them, boil them in fpring water, and drain them well, difh them up, and pour egg fauce on them, and fend them to the table. To drefs a Salt Cod. STEEP your fait fifli in water all night, with a glafs of '.’inegar, it will fetch out the fait, and make it eat like frelh fifih ; the next day boil it; when it is enough, pull it in flakes into your • difh, then pour egg fauce over it, or parlnips boiled and beat fine with butter and cream i fend it to the table on a water plate, for it will foon grow cold. 2 ToENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 25 ^0 tiidke Egg Sauce J^ot ci Salt Cod. BOIL your eggs hard, firft half chop the whites, then put in the yolks, and chop them both together, but not very fmall, put them into half a pound of good melted butter, and let it boil up, then put it on the fifh. - ^0 drefs Cod Sounds. STEEP your founds as you do the fait cod, and boil them in a large quantity of milk and water, when they are very tender and white • take them up, and drain the water out, then pour the egg fauce boiling hot over them, and ferve them up. % drefs Cod Sounds like little Turkeys. Boil your founds as for eating, but not too much, take them up and let them ftand till they are quite cold, then take a forcemeat of chop- ped oyfters, crumbs of bread, a lump of but- ter, nutmeg, pepper, fait, and the yolks of two eggs, fill your founds, with it, and fkewer them up in the fhape of a turkey, then lard them down each fide, as you would do a turkey’s bread:, dull them well with flour, and put them in a tin oven to roaft before the fire, and balle them well with butter: when they are enough pour on them oyfter faucej three arefuflicient lor a fide dilh; garnifli with barberries; it is a pretty fide difh for a large table, for a dinner in Lent.’ T^o boil Salmon Crimp, SCALE your falmon, take out the blood, walh it well, and lay it on a fifh-plate, put your C 4 water24 THE EXPERIENCED water in a fith-pan with a little fait: when it boils put in your fi(h for half a minute, then take it out for a minute or two; when you have done it four times, boil it until it be enough; when you take it out of the fifh-pan, fet it over the water to drain j cover it well with a clean cloth dipped in hot water; fry fome fmali fifhes, or a few flices of falmon, and lay round it; gar- nilh with fpraped horfe-radifh and fennel. To make Rolled Salmon, TAKE a lide of falmon when fplit and the bone taken out and fcaled, ftrew over the inlide pepper, fait, nutmeg, and mace, a few chopped cyders, parfley, and crumbs of bread, roll it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a quick oven, make the common fifli fauce and pour over it.—Garnifh with fennel, lemon, and horfe-radifh, To make Sauce for a Salmon. Boil a bunch of fennel aud parfley, chop them fmall, and put it into fome good melted butter, and fend it to the table in a fauce-boat; another with gravy fauce. To make the gravy fauce, put a little brown gravy into a fauce-pan, with one anchovy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a meat fpoonful of liquor from your walnut pickle, one or two fpoontuls of the water that the fi(h vvas boiled in; it gives it a pleafant flavour; a flick of horfe- radilh, a little browning and fait; boil them three or four minutes, thicken it with flour and a good lump of butter, and drain it through a hairENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 25 hair fieve. N. B. This is a good fauce for mofl kinds of boiled fi£h. ^0 boil a Turbot. WASH your turbot clean (if you let it lie in the water it will make it foft) and rub it over with allegar, it will make it firmer, then lay it on your fifh-plate, with the white fide up, lay a’ cloth over it, and pin it tight under your plate, which will keep it from breaking, boil it gently in hard water, with a good deal of fait and vinegar, and fcum it well, or it will difcolour the Ikin, when it is enough, take it up and drain it, take the cloth carefully off, and flip it on your difh, lay over it fried oyfters, or oyfter patties; fend in lobfter or gravy fauce in fauce-boats. Garnifh it with ciifp parfley and pickles. N. B. Don’t put in your fifli till your water boils, To boil a Pike with a pudding in the belly. TAKE out the gills and guts, wafh it wellj then make a good forcemeat of oyfters chopped fine, the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a few fweet herbs, and a little lemon peel fhred fine, nut- meg, pepper, and fait to your tafte, a good lump of butter, the yolks of two eggs, mix them well together, and put them in the belly of your fifh, few it up, fkewer it round, put hard water in your fi(h-pan, add to it a tea cupful of vinegar, and a little fait: when it boils put in the fifli; if it be a middle fize, it Vv^ill take half an hour’s boiling: garnifh it with walnuts and pickled barberries, ferve it up with oyfter fauce in a boat.26 THE EXPERIENCED boat, and pour a little fauce on the pike. You may drefs a roafted pike the fame way. Ti?Jlew Carp 'wJoite. WHEN the carp are fcalcd, gutted, and wafhed, put them into a ftew-pan, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, whole pepper, and fait, two onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, a flick of horfe-radifh, cover the pan clofe, let it ftand an hour and a half over a flow ftove, then put a gill of white wine into a faucepan, with two anchovies chop- ped, an onion, a little lemon peel, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, a little thick cream, and a large tea cupful of the liquor the carp was flewed in j boil them a few minutes, drain your carp, add to the fauce the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a little creamy when it boils up fqueeze in the juice of half a lemon; dilh up your carp, and pour your fauce hot upon it. drefs Carp thebeji way, and the fauce, KILL your carp, and favcall the blood, fcale and clean them very well, have ready fome nice rich gravy made of beef and mutton, feafoned with pepper, fait, mace, and onion, flrain it off before you flew your fifh in it, boil your carp firfl before you flew it in the gravy, be carefuf you don’t boil them too much before you put in the carp, then let it flew on a flow fire about a quarter of an hour, thicken the fauce with a good lump of butter rolled in flour: garnifli your difh with fryed oyflers, fryed toafl cut . three /ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. three corner ways, pieces of lemon, fcraped horfe-radilh, and the roe of the carp cut in. pieces, forne fryed and the other boiled, fqueezc the juice of a lemon into the fauce juft before you fend ii up; take care to difti it up hand- fomely and very hot. Another Carp Sauce, TAKE the liver of the carp clean from the guts, and three anchovies, with a little parfley, thyme, and one onion, chop all thefc fmall to- gether, then take half a pint of Rhenifti wine, four fpoonfuls of elder vinegar, with the blood of the carp, put all thefe together to ftew gently, and put it to the carp, which muft firft be boiled in water, a little lalt, and a pint of winej take care not to do it too much after the carp is .put in the fauce: garnifti with fryed oyfters, fryed toaft, fcraped horfe-radifti, and pieces of lemon, with the roe cut in pieces and fryed; if you don’t like elder vinegar, any other fort will do. To makeWniTE Fish Sauce. I WASH two anchovies, put them into a fauce- pan, with one glafs of white wine, and two of water, half a nutmeg grated, and a little lemon peel; when it has boiled five or fix minutes, ftrain it through a fieve, add to it a fpoonful of white wine vinegar, thicken it a little, then put in near a pound of butter rolled in flour, boil it well, and pour it hot upon your fifh.28 THE EXPERIENCED Ti? make a very nice Sauce Jor mojlforts ^ Fish. TAKE a little gravy made of either veal or mutton, put to it a little of the water that drains from yourfifli, when it is boiled enough, put it in a fauce-pan, and put in a whole onion, one anchovy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a glafs of white wine, thicken it with a good lump of butter rolled in dour, and a fpoonful of cream j if you have oyfters, cockles, or fhrimps put them in after you take it off the fire, (but it is very good without) you may ufe red wine inflead of white by leaving out the cream. To make Lobster Sauce. BOIL half a pint of water with a little mace and whole pepper, long enough to take out the ftrong tafle of the fpice, then drain it off, melt three quarters of a pound of butter fmooth in the water, cut your lobfter in very fmall pieces dew it all together tenderly with anchovy, and fend it up hot. To make Lobster Sauce another way. BRUISE the body of a lobder into thick melted butter and cut the flefh into it in fmall pieces, dew all together and give it a boil, fea- fon with a little pepper, fait, and a very fmall quantity of mace.ENGLISH house-keeper; 29 Jlew Carp or Tench. GUT and fcaleyour lifh, walh and dry them well with a clean cloth, dredge them well with flour, fry them in dripping, or fweet rendered fuet, until they are a light brown, and then put them in a ftew-pan, with a quart of water, and one quart of red wine, a meat fpoonful of lemon pickle, another of browning, the fame of walnut or mum catchup, a little mufhroom powder, and Chyan to your tafte, a large onion Ituck with cloves, and a flick of horfe-radifli, cover your pan clofe to keep in the fleam, let them flew gently over a flove fire, till your gravy is reduced to jufl enough to cover your fifli in the difli; then take the fifli out, and put them on the difli you intend for table, fet the gravy on the fire; and thicken it with flour and a large lump of butter, boil it a little, and flrain it over / your fifli: garnifli them with pickled mufli- rooms and fcraped horfe-radifli, put a bunch of pickled barberries, or a fprig of myrtle in their mouths, and fend them to the table. It is a top difli for a grand entertainment. Tlq drefs a Sturgeon. TAKE what fize of a piece of flurgeon you think proper, and wafli it clean, lay it all night in fait and water, the next morning take it out,, rub it well with allegar, and let it lie in it for two. hours; then have ready a fifh-kettle full of boil- ing water, with one ounce of bay fait, two large' ' onions, and a few fprigs of fweet marjoram; boil your flurgeon till the bones will leave the 5 /30 ■ THE EXPERIENCED fifh, then take it up, take the Ikin off, and flour it well i fet it before the fire, bafie it with frefli butter, and let it ftand till it be a fine brown j then difh it up, and pour into the difh the fame fauce as for the white carp; garnifh with crifp parfiey and red pickles. - This is a proper difh for the top or middle. To roaji large Eels or LamEreys with a pud- ding in the belly, SKIN your eels or lampreys, cut ofp the head, take the guts out, and fcrape the blood clean from the bone, then make a good forcemeat of oyfters or fhrimps chopped fmall, the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a little nutmeg and lemon peel fhred fine, pepper, fait, and the yolks of two eggs, put them in the belly of your fifh, few it up, turn it round on your difh, put over it flour and butter, pour a little water in your difh, and bake it in a moderate oven; when it comes out take the gravy from under it, and fcum off the fat, then ftrain it through a hair fieve; add to it a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, two of brown- ing, a meat fpoonful of walnut catchup, a glafs of white wine, one anchovy, and a flice of lemon, let it boil ten minutes, thicken it with butter and flour, fend it up in a fauce-boat, difh your fifh: garnifh it with lemon and crifp is a pretty difh for either corner or fide for a dinner. parfley ThiiENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. To Jiew Lampreys. SKIN and gut your lampreys, feafon them well with pepper, fait, cloves,nutmeg,and mace, not pounded too fine; and a little lemon peel fhred fine; then cut fome thin dices of butter into the bottom of your fauce-pan, put in the - filh with half a pint of nice gravy, half the quan- tity of white wine and cyder, the fame of claret, with a fmall bundle of thyme, winter favory, pot marjoram, and an onion diced, ftew them over a dow fire, and keep turning the lampreys till they are quite tender, when they are tender takethemoutand putin oneanchovy,andthicken the fauce with the yolk of an egg, or a little butter, rolled in flour, and pour it over the fidi and ferve them up.-—Ni B. Roll them round a Ikewer before you put them into the pan. Toftew Flounders, Plaice, or Soles. HALF fry your fidi in three ounces of but- ter a fine brown, then take up your fidi, and put to your butter a quart of water, and boil it dowly a quarter of an hour with two anchovies, and an onion diced, then put in your fifh again, with a herring, and dew them gently twenty minutes, then take out your fidi, and thicken the fauce with butter and flour, and give it a boil, then drain it through a hair fieve, over the fidi, and fend them up hot.—N. B. If you choofe cockle or oyder-liquor, put it in jud be- fore you thicken the fauce, or you may fend oyders, cockles, or Ihriraps in a fauce-boat to table. A gQodTHE experienced g2 A good way to Jlew Fish. I MIX half a tumbler of wine with as much water as will cover the fifh in the ftew-pan and put in a little pepper and fait, three or four onions, a cruft of bread toafted very brown, one anchovy, a good lump of butter, and fet them over a gentle fire, ftiake the ftew-pan now and then that it may not burn; juft before you ferve it up, pour your gravy into a fauce-pan, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, a little catchup and walnut pickle beat well to- gether till fmooth, then pour it on your fifti, and fet it over the fire to heat, and ferve it up hot. 7(9 boil Mackarel. GUT your mackarel and dry them carefully with a^lean cloth, then rub them Hightly over with a little vinegar, and lay them ftraight on your fifti plate (for turning them round often breaks them) put a little fait in the water when it bgils; put them into yourfifti-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes, then take them up and drain them well, and put the water that runs frorh them into a fauce-pan, with two tea fpoon- fuls of lemon pickle, one meat fpoonful of wal- nut catchup, the fame of browning, a blade or two of mace, one anchovy, a fticc of lemon; boil them all together a quarter of an hour, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and thicken it with flour and butter j fend it in a fauce-boat, and parfley fauce in another; difti up your fifh with the tails in the middle; garnifh it with fcraped horle-radifh and barberries.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3^ To boil Herrings. SCALE, gut, and wadi your herrings, dry . them clean, and rub them over with a little * Vinegar and fait, fkewer them with their tails in their mouths, lay them on your hlh plate, when your water boils put them in, they will take ten or twelve minutes boiling, when you take them up, drain them over the water, then turn the heads into the middle of your dllh, lay round them fcraped horfe-iadilh, parlley and butter for fauce. t To fry Herrings. SCALE# walh, and dry your herrings well; lay them feparately on a board, and fet them to the fire two or three minutes before you want them, it will keep thexfifia from llicking to the pan, dull: them with flour, when your dripping or butter is boiling hot put in your fiih, a few at a time, fry them over a brillc fire, when you have fryed them all, fet the tails up one againfl: another in the middle of the dilh, then fry a large handful of parfley crifp, take it out before it lofes its colour, lay it round them# and parfley fauce in a boat; or if you like onions better fry them, lay fome round your difli, and make onion fauce for them j or you may cut off the heads after they are fryed, chop them and put them into a fauce-pan, with ale, pepper, fait, and an anchovy, thicken it with flour and butter, ffrain i.., then put it in a fauce-boat. D foTHE EXPERIENCED 54 1^0 bake Herrings. WHEN you have cleaned your herrings as above, lay them on a board, take a little black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, and a good deal of fait, mix them together, then rub it all over the filh, lay them ftraight in a pot, cover them v/ith allegar, tie ftrong paper over the pot, and bake them in a moderate oven; if your allegar be good, they will keep two or three months; you may eat them either hot or cold. Ti? bake Sprats. RUB your fprats with fait and pepper, and to every two pints of vinegar put one pint of red wine, diffolve a penny-worth of cochineal, lay your fprats in a deep earthen dilh, pour in as much red wine, vinegar, and cochineal as will cover them, tie a paper over them, fet them in an oven all night.—They will eat well, and keep for fome time. ‘To boil Sc ATE or Ray. CLEAN your fcate or ray very well, and cut it in long narrow pieces, then put it in boil- ing water with a little fait in it, when it has boiled a quarter of an hour take it out, flip the flcin off, then put it into your pan again, with a little vinegar, and boil it till enough; when you take it up, fet it over the water to drain, and cover it clofe up, and when you difli it, be as quick as poflible, for it foon grows cold, pour over it cockle, flirimp, or mufcle fauce, lay over it oyfler patties; garnilh it with barberries and horfe-radifh. T$ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 35 ‘To fry Soles. SKIN your foies as you do eels, but keep on their heads, rub them over with an egg, and ftrew over them bread crumbs, fry them over a brilk fire in hogs-lard a light brown, ferve them up with good melted butter, and garnilh it with green pickles. ^ To marinate Soles. BOIL them in fait and water, bone and drain them, lay them on a dilh with the belly up, boil fome fpinage and pound it in a mortar, then boil four eggs hard, chop the whites and yolks feparate, lay green, white, and yellow amongft the foies, ferve them up with melted butter in a boat. , To broil Haddocks or Whitings. GUT and wafh your haddocks or whitings, dry them with a cloth, and rub a little vinegar over them, it will keep the Ikin on better, dud: them well with flour, rub your gridiron with butter, and let it be very hot when you lay the fifh on, or they will flick, turn them two or three times on the gridiron, when enough ferve them up, and lay pickles round them, with plain melted butter, or cockle fauce, they are a pretty difh for fupper. A fecond Way* WHEN you have cleaned your haddocks or whitings, as above, put them in a tin oven, and fet them before a quick fire, when the fkins be- gin to rife take them off, beat an egg, rub it over D 2 them36 THE EXPERIENCED them with a feather, and ftrewover them a few bread crumbs, dredge them well with flour, when your gridiron is hot rub it well with butter or fuer, it mufl; be very hot before you lay the fiflt on, when you have turned them, rub a little cold butter over them, turn them as your fire requires until they are enough and a little brown; lay round them cockles, mufcles, or red cab- bage, you may either have ihrimp fauce or melted butter. To fry Smelts or Sparlings. DRAW the guts out at the gills, but leave in the melt or roe, dry them with a cloth, beat an egg and rub it over them with a feather, then flrew bread crumbs over them, fry them with hogs-lard or rendered beef fuet, when it is boil- ing hot put in your fifli, /hake them a little, and fry them a nice brown, drain them in a fieve, when you difh them put a bafon in the middle of your dHh with the bottom up, lay the tails of your filli on it, fry a handful ot parfley in the fat vour fifli was fryed in, take it out of water as you try it, and it will keep its colour and crifp fooner, put a little on the tails, and lay the reft in lumps round the edge of the difh; ferveitiip with good melted butter for fauce. I’d fry Perch or Trout.’ WHEN you have fcakd, gutted, and waflied your perch or trout, dry them well, then lay them feparately on a board before the fire, two minutes before you fry them duft them well with flour, and fry them a fine brown in roaft drippingsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 37 drippings or rendered fuet, ferve them up with melted butter and crifped parfley. d?'efs Perch in Water Sokey. SCALE, gut, and wafh your perch, put fait in your water, when it boils put in the fifh, with an onion cut in flices, you muft feparate it into round rings, a handful of parfley picked and waihed clean, put in as much milk as will turn the water white, when your fifh is enough, put them in a foup diih, and pour a little of the water over them with the parfley and the onions, then ferye it up with butter and parfley in a boat; onions may be omitted if you pleafe. You may boil trout the fame way. To boil'E'E'ls. SKIN, gut, and take the blood out of your cels cut off their heads, dry them, and turn them round on your fifh plate, boil them in fait and water, and make parfley fauce for them. To pitch-cock Eels, SKIN, gut, and wafh your eels, then dry them with a-cloth, fprinkle them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage, turn them backward and forward, and fkewer them, rub your grid- iron with beef fuet, broil them a good brown, put them on your difli with good melted buU ter, and lay round fryed parfley. To broil Eels, M^HEN you have fkinned and cleanfed your cels as before, rub them with the yolk of an egg, 3 flrew38 THE EXPERIENCED Rrew over them bread crumbs, chopped parfley, fage, pepper, and fait, babe them well with but- ter, and fet them in a dripping-pan, roaft or broil them on a gridiron, ferve them up with parfley and butter for fauce, To boil Flounders, and all Kinds of Flat Fish. CUT off the fins, and nick the brown fide under the head, then take out the guts, and dry them with a cloth, boil them in fait and water j make either gravy, fhrimp, cockle, or mufcle fauce, and garnifh it with red cabbage. To few Oysters, and all Sorts of Shell Fish. WHEN you have opened your oyflers, put their liquor into a toffing pan with a little beaten mace, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it three or four minutes, toaft a flice of white bfead, and cut it into three-cornered pieces, lay them round your difh, put in a fpoonful of good cream, put in your oyflers, and fliake them round in your pan, you muft not let them boil, for if they do it will make them hard and look fmall j ferve them up in a little foup difh or plate. N. B. You may flew cockles, mufcles, or any fhell fifli the fame way. To few Oy'sTERS, Cockles, Muscles. OPEN your fifh clean from the fhell, fave the liquor, and let it fland to fettle, then flrairi itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3^ it through a hair fieve, and put to it as many crumbs of bread as will make it pretty thick, and boil them well together before you put in the fidi, with a good lump of butter, pepper, and fait to your tafle, give them a lingle boil, and ferve them up.—N. B. You may make it a hfh fauce by adding a glafs of white wine juft before you take it oft' the fire, and leaving out the crumbs of bread. To fcollop Oysters. WHEN your oyfters are opened, put them in a bafon, and wafii them out of their own liquor, put fome in your fcollop-fhells, ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and lay a flice, of butter on them, then more oyfters, bread crumbs, and a flice of butter on the top, put them into a Dutch oven to brown, and fervp them up in the fliells. To fry Oysters, TAKE a quarter of an hundred of large oy- fters, beat the yolks of two eggs, add to it a little nutmeg, and a blade of mace pounded, a fpoonful of flour, and a little fait, dip in your oyfters, and fry them in hogs-lard a light brown ; if you choofe you may add a little parfley fhred fine. N. B. Th ey are a proper garnifh for cods-head, calves-head, or moft made difhes.40 THE EXPERIENCED To make Oyster Loaves. TAKE fmall French rafps, or you may make little round loaves, make a round hole in the top, ferape out all the crumbs, then put your oyllers into a toffing pan, with the liquor and crumbs that came out of your rafps or loaves^ and a good lump of butter, Rew thern together five or fix minutes, then put in a fpoonful of good cream, fill your rafps or loaves, lay the bit of cruft carefully on again, fet them in the oven to crifp. Three are enough for a fide difti. To boil Lobsters, TAKE your lobfter, and put afkewer in the vent of the tail, to prevent the water from get- ting into the body of the lobfter, put it into a pan of boiling water, with a little fait in it, if it be a large one it will take half an hour’s boilings when you take it out, put a lump of butter- in a cloth, and rub it over, it will ftfike the colour, and make it look bright. To roaji Lobsters. HALF boil your lobfter as before, rub it well with butter, and fet it before the fire, bafte it all over till the fhcll looks a dark brown, ferve up -’\vith good melted butter.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 41 Ti? Jiew Lobsters or Shrimps. PICK your lobfters or fhrimps in as large pieces as you can, and boil the fhells in a pint of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a few whole pepper corns j when all the llrength is come out of the fhells and fpice, ftrain it, and put in your lobfters or fhrimps, and thicken it with flour and butter and give them a boil j put in a glafs of white wine, or two fpoonfuls of vinegar, and ferve it up. To make Lobster Patties to garnijh Fish. TAKE all the red feeds and the meat of a lobfter, with a little pepper, fait, and crumbs of bread, mix them well wdth a little butter, make them up in finall patties, and put them in either rich batter or thin pafte, fry or bake them, andgarnifh your fifh with them. To pickle Sturgeon. Cut your flurgeon into what fize pieces you pleafe, wafh it well, and tie it with mats ; to every three quarts of water put one quart of old flrong beer, a handful of bay fait, and dou- ble the quantity of common fait, one ounce of ginger, two ounces of black pepper, one ounce of cloves, and one of Jamaica pepper, boil it till it will leave the bone, then take it up, the next day put in a quart of ffrong ale allegar, and, a little fait, tie it down with ftrong paper, and keep it for ufe.—Don't put your fturgeon in till the water boils.42 THE EXPERIENCED ^0 pickle Salmon the Newcajlle Way. TAKE a falmon about twelve pounds, gut it, then cut off the head, and cut it a-crofs in what pieces you pleafe, but don’t fplit it, fcrape the blood from the bone, and wafh it well out, then tie it a-crofs each way, as you do flurgeon, fet on your fifli-pan with two quarts of water, and three of ffrong beer, half a pound of bay fait, and one pound of common fait, when it boils fcum it well, then put in as muchfiffias your liquor will cover, and when it is enough take it carefully out, left you ftrip off the fkin, and lay it on earthen difhes ; when you have done all your fi£h, let it ftand till the next day, put it into pots, add to the liquor three quarts of ftrong beer allegar, half an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves and black pepper, one ounce of long pepper, two ounces of white ginger, lliced, boil them well together half an hour, then pour it boiling hot upon your filh, when cold cover it well with ftrong brown paper.—!* This will keep a whole year. pickle Oysters. OPEN the largeft and fineft oyfters you can get, whole and clean from the fhell, wafti them in their own liquor, let it ftand to fettle, then pour it from the fediment into a fauce-pan, put to it a glafs of Lifbon wine, as much white wine vinegar as you had oyfter liquor, three or four blades of mace, a nutmet lliced, a few white pepper corns, and a little fait, boil it five or fix minuteSj^ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 43 rnlntites, fcum it, then put in your oyRers, Eininer them ten or twelve minutes, take them, out, and put them in narrow-topped jars j when they are cold, pour over them rendered mutton fuet, tie them down with a bladder, and keep them for ufe. 'To -pickle Oysters a fecond Way, ■ OPEN the oyfters very carefully, and take off all the fhells that Aick to the fifh, put them into a little water, and wa(h the oyfters in it and ftrain the liquor, boil it with a little vinegar, whole pepper, fait, and mace, till it tafte of the fpices, then put in the oyfters: if they are large they muft boil eight minutes, if fmall, not fo long; put them into pickling-pots, when the liquor is cold pour it upon the oyfters. To half a hundred of oyfters put fix fpoonfuls of water and four of very good vinegar, then tie bladders very clofe over them. Ti? collar Mackarel, GUT and flit your mackarel down the belly, cut off the head, take out the bones, take care you don’t cut it in holes, then lay it flat upon its back, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, and a handful of parfley fhred fine, ftrew it over them, roll them tight, and tie them well feparately in cloths, boil them gently twenty minutes in vinegar, fait, and water, then uke them out, put them into a pot, pour the liquor on them, or the cloth will ftick to the |ifh, the next day take the cloth off your fifh, put44 the experienced put a little more vinegar to the pickle, keep them for ufe j when you fend them to the table, garnifli with fennel and parfley, and put fome of the liquor under them. T’o pickle Mackarel. WASH and gut your mackarel, then fkewer them round with their tails in their mouths, bind them with a fillet to keep them from break- ing, boil them in fait and water about ten mi- nutes, then take them carefully out, put to the water a pint of allegar, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, and boil it all to- gether ; when cold pour it on the fi^, and tie it down clpfe. Salmon,' I Let your falmon be quite fretb, fcale and wafh it well, and dry it with a cloth, fplit it up the back and take out the bone, feafon it well with white pepper and fait, a little nutmeg and mace, let it lie two or three hours, then put it in your pot, with half a pound of butter, tie it down, put it into the oven and bake it an hour,' when it comes out, lay it on a flat diib that the oil may run from it, cut it to the fize of your pots, lay it in layers till you fill the pot, with the ikin upwards, put a board over it, lay on a weight to prefs it till cold, then pour over it clarified butter when you cut it, the fkin makes it look ribbed, you may fend it to the table cither cut in dices, or in the pot. A Jecon4ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 45 Afecond way. WHEN you have any cold falmon left, take the Ikin off, and bone it, then put it in a mar- ble mortar, with a good deal of clarified but- ter; feafon it pretty high with pepper, mace, and fait, Ihred a little fennel very fmall, beat them all together exceeding fine, then put it clofe down into a pot, and cover it with clarified butter. Ti?Smelts or Sparlings. DRAW out the guts with a fkewer under the gills, the melt or roe mufi: be left in, dry them well with a cloth, feafon them with fait, mace, and pepper, lay them in a pot, with half a pound of njclted butter over them, tie them down, and bake them in a flow oven three quar- ters of an hour; when they are almofl: cold, take them out of the liquor, put them into oval pots, cover them with clarified butter, and keep them for ufe. To pickle Smelts or Sparlings. GUT them with a flcewer under the gills, but leave the melt or roe in, dry them with a cloth, and flcewer their tails in their mouths, put fait in your water, when it boils put in your fifh for ten minutes, then take them up, put to the water a blade or two of mace, a few cloves, and a little allegar; boil them all together, and when it is cold put in your fifli, and keep them for ufe.THE EXPERIENCED 46 To collar Eels. CASE your eel, cut off the head, flit operl the belly, take out the guts, cut off the fins, take out the bones, lay it flat on the back, grate over it a fmall nutmeg, two or three blades of mace beat fine, a little pepper and fait, ffrew over it a handful of parfley ffred fine, with a few fage leaves, roll it up tight in a cloth, bind it well; if it be of a middle fize, boil it in fait and water three quarters of an hour, hang it up all night to drain, add to the pickle a pint of vinegar, a few pepper corns, and a fprig of fweet marjoram, boil it ten minutes, and let it fland till the next day, take off the cloth, and put your eels into the pickle, you may fend them whole on a plate, or cut them in flices j gar- nifh with green parfley.—Lampreys are done the fame way. To pckle Cockles. WASH your cockles clean, put them in a fauce-pan, cover them clofe, fet them over the fire, fhake them till they open, then pick them out of the fhells, let the liquor fettle till it be clear, then put the fame quantity of wine vinegar, and a little fait, a blade or two of mace, boil them together, and pour it on your cockles, and keep them in bottles for ufe. You muff pickle mufcles the fame way,,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 47 To pot Chars. CUT ofF riie fins, and cheek-part of each fide of the head of your chars, rip them open, take out the guts and the blood from the back- bone, dry them well in a cloth, lay them on a board, and throw on them a good deal of fait, let them ftand all night, then fcrape it gently off them, and wipe them exceedingly well with a cloth, pound mace, cloves, and nutmeg, very fine, throw a little in the infide of them, and a good deal of fait and pepper on the outfide, put them clofe down in a deep pot, with their bellies up, with plenty of clarified butter over them, fet them in the oven, and let them Rand for three hours 5 when they come out, pour what butter you can off clear, lay a board over them, and turn them upfide down, to let the gravy run from them, fcrape the fait and pepper very carefully off, and feafon them ex- ceeding well both infide and out with the above feafoning, lay them clofe into broad thin pots for that purpofe, with the backs up, then cover them well with clarified butter; keep them in. a cool dry place. To pot Eels. SKIN, gut, and clean your eels, cut them in pieces about four inches long, then feafon them with pepper, fait, beaten mace, and a little dryed fage rubbed very fine, rub them well with your feafoning, lay them in a brown pot, put over them as much butter as will co- 4 verTHE EXPERIENCED ver them, tie them down with a Rrong papery fet them in a quick oven for an hour and a half; take them out, when cold put them into fmall pots, and cover them with clarified butteri N. B, You may pot lampreys the fame way. To pQt Lampreys. TAKE lampreys alive, and riin a fiick through their heads, and flit their tails, hang them up by their heads and they will bleed at the tail end; when they have done bleeding, cut them open, take out the guts, and wipe them until they are perfectly dry and cleanj (you muft not wafh them with water) then rub them with pepper and fait, let them hand all night, and wipe them exceedingly dry again, then feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and a lit- tle nutmeg, roll them up tight, put them in a pot with fome butter, cover them up with ftrong paper, and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are enough and near cold, drain out the butter from them, put them in your potting pots, and cover them with clari- fied butter. • To pot Lobsters. TAKE the meat out of the claws and belly of a boiled lobfter, put it in a marble mortar, with two blades of mace, a little white pepper and fait, a lump of butter the fize of half an egg, beat them all together till they come to a, palte, put one half of it into your pot, take the 2 meat AENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 49 meat out of the tail part, lay it in the middls of your pot, lay on it the other half ot your pafte, prefs it clofe down, pour over it clarified butter, a quarter of an inch thick.' JV- B. To clarify butter, put your boat into a clean faucepan, fet it over a flow fire, when it is melted, fcum it, and take it off the fire, let it ftand a little, then pour it over your lobflers; take care you do not pour in the milk, which fettles to the bottom of the faucepan. ^ receipt to pot Lobsters, which coji ten guineas» TAKE twenty good lobfters, and when cold pick all the meat out of the tails and claws (be careful to take out all the black gut in the tails, which muft not be ufed) beat fine three quarters of an ounce of mace, a fmall nutmeg, and four or fve cloves, with pepper and fait, feafon the meat with it; lay a layer of butter into a deep earthen pot, then put in the lob- fiers, and lay the reft of the butter over them (this quantity of lobfters will take at leaft four pounds of butter to bake them) tie a paper over the pot, fet them in an oven, when they are baked tender, take them out, and lay them on a difli to drain a little, then put them clofe down in your potting pots, but do not break them in fmall pieces, but lay them in as whole as you can, only fplitting the tails. When you have filled your pots as full as yCu choofe, take a fpoonful ortwoof the red butter they were baked in, pour it on the top, and fet it before the fire to let it melt in, then cool it, and melt a little. white50 THE EXPERIENCED white wax in the remainder of the butter, and cover them. N. B. Lay a good deal of the red hard part in the pot to bake, to colour the butter, but do not put it in the potting po»ts. To pot Shrimps. BICK the hiiefl: flirimps you can get, feafon them with a little beaten mace, pepper and fait to your tafte, and with a little cold butter pound them all together in a mortar till it comes to a pafle, put it down in fraall pots, and pour over ^hem clarihed butter. To caveacb Soles-. FRY your foies in either oil or butter, boil fome vinegar with a little water, two or three blades of mace, a very few cloves, fome black pepper and a little fait, let it Rand till cold, and when cold beat up fome oil with it, lay your liih in a deep pot, and Rice a good deal of jOhalots or onions between each fifh, throw your liquor over it, and pour fome oil on the top : it will keep three or four months, made rich and fryed in oil i it muft be flopped well and kept in a dry place. Take out a little at a time when you ufc it. To can: each Fish. CUT your hfla into pieces the thicknefs of your hand, feafon it with pepper and fait, let it lie an hour, dry it well with a cloth, flour it, and then fry it a fine brown in oil : boil a fuffi- cient 2ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEFER. 51 cient quantity of vinegar with a little garlick, mace, and whole pepper to cover the fi(h, add the fame quantity of oil, and fait to your tade, mix well the oil and vinegar, and when the fifh and liquor is quite cold, Ilice fome onion to lay in the bottom of the pot, then a layer of fifh and onion, and fo on till the whole fifli is put up; the liquor muft not be put in till it is quite cold, ^ very good Way to pre/erve Fish. TAKE any large fifh, cutoff the head, wafli it clean, and cut it into thin flices, dry it well with a cloth, flour it and dip it in the yolks of eggs, fry it in plenty of oil till it is a fine brown, and well done, lay them to drain till cold, then lay them in your veflel, throw in betwixt the layers, mace, cloves, and fiiced nutmeg, then make a pickle of the befl; white wine vinegar, fhalots, garlick, white pepper, Jamaica pepper, long pepper, juniper berries and fait, boil it till the garlick is tender, and the pickle will be enough ; when it is quite cold pour it on your filh, with a little oil on the top j fmall fifh are done whole; cover it clofe with a bladder. ^0'pickle Shrimps. PICK the finefl: fhrimps you can get, and, put them into cold allegar and fait, put them into little bottles, cork them dole, and keep them for ufe. ^I 52 THE EXPERIENCED To pot red and black Moor-Game. PLUCK and draw them, and feafon them with pepper, cloves, mace, ginger, and nutmeg, well beaten and lifted, with a quantity of fait not to overcome the fpices, roll a lump of but- ter in the feafoning, and put it into the body of the fowls, rub the outfide with feafoning, and then put them into pots with the breaft down- wards and cover them with butter, lay a paper, and then a pafte over them, and bake them till they are tender, then take them out and lay them to drain, then put them into potting-pots with the bread; upward, and take all the butter they were baked in clean from the gravy and pour upon them; fill up the pots with clari- fied butter, and keep them in a dry place. CHAP. Iir. Obfer'uations on Roasting and Boiling. WHEN you boil any kind of meat, parti- cularly veal, it requires a great deal of care and neatnefs : be fure your copper Is very ( clean and well tinned, fill it as full of foft water as is necedary, duft your veal well with fine dour, put it into your copper, fet it over a large dre; fome choofe to put in milk to make it white, but I think it is better without: if your water happens to be the lead hard it curdles J IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 53 the milk, and gives the veal a brown yellow caft, and often hangs in lumps about the veal, fo will oatmeal, but by dufting your veal, and putting it into the water when cold, it prevents the foulnefs of the water from hanging upon it; when the fcum begins to rife, take it clear off, put on your cover, let it boil in plenty of water as flow as poflible, it will make your veal rife and plump: a cook cannot be guilty of a greater errour than to let any fort of meat boil fafl:, it hardens the outfide before the infide is warm, and difcolours it, efpecially veal; for inftance, a leg of veal of twelve pounds weight will re- quire three hours and an half boiling, the flower it boils the whiter and plumper it will be} when you boil mutton or beef, obferve to dredge them well with flour before you put them into the kettle of cold water, keep it covered, and take off the fcum ; mutton or beef do not require (0 much boiling, nor is it fo great a fault if they are a little fliort, but veal, pork, or lamb, are not fo wholefome if they are not boiled enough ; a leg of pork will require half an hour more boiling than a leg of veal of the fame weight; when you boil beef or mutton, you may allow an hour for every four pounds weighty it is the befl: way to put in your meat when the water is cold, it gets warm to the heart before the out- fide grows hard, a leg of lamb of four pounds weight will require an hour and a half boiling. WHEN you roafl any kind of meat, it is a yer^ good way to put a little fait and water in E 3 your54 the experienced your dripping-pan, bafte your meat a little with it, let it dry, then duft it well with flour, bafte it with frefh butter, it will make your meat a better colour j obferve always to have a brifk cl ear fire, it will prevent your meat from dazing and the froth from falling, keep it a good dif- tance from the fire, if the meat is fcorched the outfide is hard, and prevents the heat from pe- netrating into the meat,-and will appear enough before it be little more than half done. Time, 'diftance, bafting often, and a clear fire, is the beft method I can prefcribe for roafting meat to perfedlion ; when the fleam draws near the fire, it is a fign of its being enough, but you will be the befl judge of that from the time you put it down. Be careful, when you roafl any kind of wild fovvl to keep a cleV brifk fire, roafl them a light brown, but not too much : it is a great fault to roafl them till the gravy runs out of them, it takes off the fine fiav..ur. Tame fowls require more roafling, they are a long time before they are hot through, and mufl be often balled to keep up a flrong froth, it makes them rife better, and a finer colour. Pigs and geefe fhould be roafled before a good fire, and turned quick. Hares and rabbits re- ouire time and care, to fee the ends are roafled enough, when they are half roafled, cut the neck fkin, and let out the blood, or when they are cut up they often appear bloody at the neck. ToENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 55 To roaji a Pig. STICK your pig juft above the breaft-bonej run your knife to the heart, when it is dead put it in cold water for a few minutes, then rub it over with a little refin beat exceeding fine, or its own blood, put your pig into a pail of fcald- ing water half a minute, take it out. lay it on a clean table, pull off the hair as quick as pofli- hle, if it does not come clean off put it in again, when you have got it all clean off wafh it in warm water, then in two or three cold waters, for fear the refin ihould tafte; take o.fF the four feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the bel- ly, take out all the entrails, put the liver, heart, and lights to the pettitoes, wafli it well out of •cold water, dry it exceedingly well with a cloth, hang it up, and when you roaft it, put in a little Hired fage, a tea fpoonful of black pepper, two ■ef fait, and a cruft of brown bread, fpit your pig, and few it up; lay it down to a brilk clear fire, with a pig-plate hung in the middle of the fire; when your pig is warm, put a lump of butter in a cloth, rub your pig often with it while it is roafting; a large one will take an hour and an half: when your pig is a fine brown, and the fteam draws near tthe fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig .quite dry, then rub it well with a little cold butter, it will help to crifp it.; then take a fliarp knife, cut off the head, and take off the collar, then take off the ears and jaw-bone, fplit the jaw in two, when you have cut the pig down the back, which muft be done beforeyou draw the fpit out, then lay your E 4 pig56 THE EXPERIENCED pig back to back on your difh, and the jaw on each fide, the ears on each fhoulder, and the collar at the Ihoulder, and pour in your fauce, and ferve it up ; garnifii with a cruft of brown bread grated. To make Sauce for a Pig, CHOP the brains a little, then put in a tea- cupful of white gravy with the gravy that runs out of the pig, a little bit of anchovy, mix near half a pound of butter, with as much ^ciur as will thicken the gravy, a flice of lemon, a fpoon- ful of white wine, a little caper liquor and fait, fihake it over the fire, and pour it into your difh; fome like currants, boil a few and fend them in a tea faucer with a glafs of currant jelly in the middle of it. A fecond way to make Pig Sauce. CUT all the outfide off a penny loaf, then cut it into very thin flices, put it into a faucepan of cold water, with an onion, a few pepper corns, and a little fait, boil it until it be a fine pulp, then beat it well, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, and two fpoonfuls of thick cream, make it hot, and put it into a bafon. , To drefs a Pig’s Pettitoes. TAKE up the heart, liver, and lights, when they have boiled ten minutes, and flired them pretty fmall, but let the feet boil till they are jpretty tender, then take them out ?ind fplit ' them;ENGLISH HOtfSE-KEEPER. 57 them ; thicken your gravy with flour and but- ter, put in-your mincemeat, a flice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and boil it a little; beat the yolk of an egg, add to it two fpoonfuls of good cream, and a little grated nutmeg, put in your pettitoes, fliake it over the fire, but do not let It boil; lay fippets round your difli, pour in your mincemeat, lay the feet over them the lldn fide up, and fend them to the table. To boil a Goose with Onion Sauce. TAKE your goofe ready dreflfed, fingeit and pour over it a quart of boiling milk, let it lie in it all night, then take it out and dry it ex- ceeding well with a cloth, feafon it with pepper and fait, chop fmall a large onion, a handful of fage leaves, put them into your goofe, few it up at the neck and vent, hang it up by the legs till the next day, then put it into a pan of cold- water, cover it clofe, and let it boil flowly one hour, I To Jlew Goose Giblets. CUT your pinions in two, the neck in four pieces, flice the gizzard, clean it well, flew them in two quarts of water, or mutton broth, v/ith a bundle of fweet herbs, one anchovy, a few pepper corns, three or four cloves, a fpoonful ot catchup, and an onion ; when the giblets are tender, put in a fpoonful of good cream, thicken it with flour and butter, ferve them up in a foup difh, and lay fippets round it.THE EXPERIENCED S8 To Green Goose. ^ WHEN your goofe is ready dreffed, put in a good lump of butter, fpit it, lay it down, finge it well, duft it with flour, bafte it well with frefh butter, bafte it three or four different times with cold butter, it will make the flefh rife better than if you was to bade it out of the dripping-pan; if it is a large one it will take three quarters of an hour to roafl: it j when you think it is enough, dredge it with flour, bafle it till it is a fine froth, and your goofe a nice brown, and diili it up with a little brown gravy under it: garnifh with a cruft of bread grated round the edge of your dilh. *To make Sauce for a Green Goose. TAKE fome melted butter, put in a fpoonful of the juice of forrel, a little fugar, a few cod- led goofeberries, pour it into your fauce-boats, and fend it hot to the table. roaji a Stubble Goose. CHOP a few fage leaves, and two onions very fine, mix them with a good lump of but- ter, a tea fpoonful of-pepper, and two of fait, nut it in your goofe, then fpit it and lay it down, finge it well, duft it with flour; when it is thoroughly hot bafte it with frefh butter : if it be a large one it will require an hour and a half before a good clear fire; when it is enough, dredge and bafte it, pull out the fpit, and pour in a little boiling water. \ • -5ENGLISH HOUSE.KEEPER. 59 To make Sauce for a Goose. PARE,, core, and llice your apples, put them in a faucepan with as much water as will keep them from burning, fet them over a very flow fire, keep them dole covered till they are all of a pulp, then put in a lump of butter, and fugar to your tafte, beat them well and fend them to the table in a china bafon. To Ducks nioith Onion Sauce. SCALD and draw your ducks, put them in warm water for a few minutes, then take them out, put them in an earthen pot, pour over them a pint of boiling milk, let them lie in it two or three hours j when you take them out dredge them well with flour, put them in a copper of cold water, put on your cover, let them boil flowly twenty minutes, then take them out, and fmother them with onion fauce. To make Onion Sauce. BOIL eight or ten large onions, change the water two or three times while they are boiling, when enough chop -them on a board to keep them from growing a bad colour, put them in a faucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, two fpoonfuls of thick cream, boil it a little, and pour it over the ducks. I To roaft Ducks. WHEN you have killed and drawn your ducks, Hired one onion, and a few fage leaves, put6o THE EXPERIENCED put them into your ducks with pepper and fait, Ipit, finge, and duft them with flour, baftc them with butter; if your fire be very hot they will be roafled in twenty minutes, the quicker they are roafled the better they eat j juft before you draw them, duft them with flour, and bafte them with butter, put them on a difh, have ready your gravy made of the gizzards and pinions, a large blade of mace, a few pepper corns, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, and one onion, ftrain it, pour it on your difh, and fend onion fauce in a boat. Ti? boil a Turkey njoith Oyster Sauce. LET your turkey have no meat the day be- fore you kill it, when you are going to kill it give it a fpoonful of allegar, it will make it white and eat tender; when you have killed it hang it up by the legs for four or five days at leaft; when you have plucked it draw it at the rump, if you can take the breaft-bone out nicely it will lobk much better, cut off the legs, put the end of the thighs into the body of the turkey, fkewer them down, and tie them with a firing, cut off the head and neck, then grate a penny loaf, chop a fcore or more of oyfters fine, fhreda little lemon peel, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your palate, mix it up into a light force- meat with a quarter of a pound of butter, a fpoonful or two of cream, and three eggs, fluff the craw with it, and make the reft into balls and boil them ; few up the turkey, dredge it 4 yvel^ 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 6r well with flour, put it into a kettle of cold wa- ter, cover it, and fe't it over the fire, when the fcum begins to rife take it off, put on your cover, let it boil very flowly for half an hour, then take off your kettle, and keep it clofe covered, if it be of a middle fize let it fland half an hour in the hot water, the fleam being kept in will flew it enough, make it rife, keep the fkin whole, tender, and very white; when you difh it up, pour over it a little of your oyfler fauce, lay your balls round it, and ferve it up with the refl of your fauce in a boat: garnifh with lemon and barberries.—^. B. Obferveto fet on your turkey in time, that it may flew as above : it is the befl way I ever found to boil one to perfedlion : when you are going to difh it up, fet it over the Are to make it quite hot. To make Sauce for a TurSiey. AS you open your oyflers, put a pint into a bafon, wafli them out of their liquor, and put them in another bafon : when the liquor is fet- tled, pour it clean off into a faucepan, with a little white gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, thicken it with flour and a good lump of butter, boil it three or four minutes, put in a fpoonful of good thick cream, put in your oyflers, keep lhaking them over the fire till they are quite hot, but do not let them boil, i| will make them hard and look little. Afecond way to make Sauce for a Turkey. CUT a fcrag end of a neck of veal in pieces, put them in a faucepan, with two or three blades62 THE EXPERIENCED blades of mace, one anchovy, a few flicks of celery, a little Chyan and fait, aglafsof white wine, a fpoonful of lemon pickle, a tea fpoonful of mulliroom powder or catchup, a quart of water, put on your cover, and let it boil until it be reduced to a pint, ftrain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in dour, boil it a little, put in a fpoonful of thick cream, and pour it over the turkey. To roaft a Turkey. WHEN you have drefl’ed your turkey as before, trufs its head down to the legs, then make your forcemeat, take the crumbs of a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet fhred fine, a little faufage meat, or veal fcraped and pounded exceeding fine, nutmeg, pepper, and I'alt to your palate, mix it up lightly with three eggs, fluff the craw with it, fpit it, and lay it down a good diflance from the fire, keep it clear and brifk, finge, duft, and baffe it feveral times with cold butter, it makes the^ froth ffronger than bafting it with the hot out of the dripping-pan, and makes the turkey rife better: when it is enough, froth it up as before, difh it up, pour on your difli the fame gravy as for the boiled turkey, only put in browning inflead of cream : garnifh with lemon and pickles, and ferve it up; if it be a middle fize it will re- quire one hour and a quarter roafting. To 7nake /or ^Turkey. </ CUT the crufts off a penny loaf, cut the reft in thin dices, put it in cold water, with a fdw pepperENGLISH house-keeper: 63- pepper corns, a little fait and onion, boil it till the bread is quite foft, then beat it well, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, two fpoonfuls of thick cream, and put it into a bafon. 'To boil Fowls. WHEN you have plucked your fowls, draw them at the rump, cut off the head, neck, and legs, take the breaft-bone very carefully out, Ikewer them with the end of their legs in the body, tie them round with a firing, linge, and dufl: them well with flour, put them in a kettle of cold water, cover it clofe, fet it oh the fire,, when the fcum begins to rife take it off, put on your cover, and let them boil very flowly twenty minutes, take them off, cover them clofe, and the heat of the water will flew them enough in half an hour; it keeps the fkin whole, and they will be both whiter and plumper than if they had boiled fafl; when you take them up, drain them, pour over them white fauce, or melted butter. To make White Sauce Jor Fowls. TAKE a fcrag of veal, the necks of the fowls, or any bits of mutton or veal you have, put them in a fauce-pan, with a blade or two of mace, a few black pepper, corns, one anchovy, a head of celery, a bunch of fwcet herbs, a flice of the end of a lemon, put in a quart of water, cover it clofe, let it boil till it is reduced to half a pint, ftrain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, mixed with flour, boil it five64 THE EXPERIENCED five or fix minutes, put in two fpoonfuls of pickled muflirooms, mix the yolks of two eggs with a tea cupful of good cream and a little nutmeg, put in your fauce, keep fhaking it over the fire, but do not let it boil. To roajt large Fowls. TAKE your fowls when they are ready dreffed, put them down to a good fire, finge, duft, and baftethem well with butter, they will be near an hour in roafting, make a gravy of the necks and gizzards, ftrain it, put in a fpoon- ful of browning j when you di(h them up, pour the gravy into thedifh, ferve them up with egg fauce in a boat. To make Egg Sauce, BOIL two eggs hard, half chop the whites, then put in the yolks, chop them both toge- ther, but not very fine, put them into a quarter of a pound of good melted butter, and put it in a boat. To boil young Chickens. 1 PUT your chickens in Raiding water, as foon as the feathers will flip ofi'take them out, or it will make the fkin hard and break, when you have drawn them lay them in fkimmed milk for two hours, then trufs them with their heads on their wings, finge and duft them well with flour, put them in cold water, cover them clofe, fet them over a very flow fire, take ofi: the Icum, let them boil llowly for five or fix minutes, take theiAENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 65 them off the fire, keep them clofe cov'ered in the water for half an hour, it will ftew them enough, and make them both white and plump ; when you are going to dilh them, let them over the fire to make them hot, drain them, pour over them white fauce made the fame way as for the boiled fowls. . ' 'To roajiyoung Chickens. WHEN you roafi; young chickens, pluck them very carefully, draw them, only cut off the claws, trufs them, and put them down to a good fire, finge, duft, and bade them with but- ter ; they will take a quarter of an hour roaft- ing, then froth them up, lay them on your difh, pour butter and parlley in the difh, and ferve them up hot. Pheasa'nts or Partridges. WHEN you roafi: pheafants or partridges, keep them at a good diftance from the fire, duft them, and bafte them often with frefh butter; if your fire is good, half an hour will roafi; them ; put a little gravy in the difh, made of a ferag of mutton, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, and a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, Itrain it, difh them up, with bread fauce, in a bafon, made the fame way as for the boiled tur- key. N. B. When the pheafant is roafted, flick feathers on the tail before you fend it to the table. F To i /THE EXPERIENCED (56 ro roaft Ruffs and Rees. THESE birds I never met with but in Lin- colnfliire; the beft way is to feed them with W'hite bread boiled in milk, they mud; have fe- parate pots, for two will not eat out of one, they will be fat in eight or ten days ; when you kill them, flip the fkin off the head and neck with the feathers on, then pluck anddraw them; when you roaft them, put them a good diftance from the fire, if the fire be good they will take about twelve minutes, when they are roafted flip the fkin on again with the feathers on, fend them up with gravy under them, made the fame as for the pheafant, and bread fauce in a boat, and crifp crumbs of bread round the edge of the difh. / To roaji Woodcocks or Snipes. PLUCK them, but do not draw them, put them on ^ fmall fpit, dull: and bafte them well with butter, toaft a few flices of a penny loaf, put them on a clean plate, and fet it under the birds while they are roafting, if the fire be good they will take about ten minutes roafting ; when, you draw them lay them upon the toafts on the difla ; pour melted butter round them, and ferve them up. To \J^D Ducks or Teal. WHEINI your ducks are ready dreffed, put in them a fmall onion, pepper, fait, and a fpoon- ful of red wine, 4f the fire be good they will ■ . roaft.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 67 rcaft in twenty minutes, make gravy of the necks and gizzards, a fpoonful of red v/ine, half an anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a dice of an end of a lemon, one onion, and a little Chyan. pepper, boil it till it is wafted to half a pint, ftrain it through a hair fieve, put in a fpoonful of browning, pour it on your ducks, ferve them up with onion faucc in a boat: garnilh your diftii with rafpings of bread. ‘To boil Pigeons. SCALD your pigeons, draw them, take the craw clean out, walh them in feveral waters, cut oft' the pinions, turn the legs under the wings, dredge them, and put them in.foft cold water, boil them very flo wly a quarter of an hour, difti them up, pour over them good melted but- ter, lay round them a little brocoli in bunches, and fend butter and parfley in a boat. To roaft Pigeons. r WHEN you have drelTed your pigeons, as be- fore, roll a good lump pi butter in chopped par- fley, with pepper and fait, put in your pi- geons, fpit, duft, and bafte them ; if the fire be good they will be roafted in twenty minutes ; when they are enough'lay round them bunches of afparagus, with parfley and butter for fauce, ' To roaji La>ks. PUT a dozen of larks on a fkewer, tie it to the fpit at both ends, dredge and bafte them, let them r^aft ten minutes, take the crumbs of a F 2 half-To ■f 68 THE EXPERIENCED t half-penny loaf, with a piece of butter thefize of a walnut, put it in a toffing pan, and (hake it over a gentle fire till they are a light brown, lay them betwixt your birds, and pour over them a little melted butter. To Rabbits. WHEN you have cafed your rabbits, fkewer them with their heads ftraight up, the fore-legs brought down, and the hind-legs ftraight, boil them three quarters of an hour at leaft, then fmother them with onion fauce, made the fame as for boiled ducks, pull out the jaw bones, ftick them in their eyes, put a fprig of myrtle or bar- berries in their mouths, and ferve them up. To roaji Rabbits. WHEN you have cafed your rabits, fkewef their heads with their mouths upon their backs, ftick their fore-legs into their ribs, (kewer the hind-legs double, then make a pudding.,for them of the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a little par- fley, fweet marjoram, thyme, and lemon peel, all fhred fine, nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte, mix them up into a light (luffing, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little good cream, and two eggs, put it into the belly, and few them up, dredge, and bade them well with butter, roaft them near an hour, ferve them up with par-, (ley and butter for fauce, chop the livers and lay them in lumps round the edge of your di(h.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 69 To roajl a Hare. SKEWER your hare with the head upon one fhoulder, the fore legs Ruck into the ribs, the hind-legs double, make your pudding of the crumb of a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef marrow or fuet, and a quarter of a pound of butter, flired the liver, a fprig or two of winter favory, a little lemon peel, one anchovy, a little Chyan pepper, half a nutmeg grated, mix them up in a light forcemeat, with a glafs of red wine, and two eggs, put it in the belly of your hare, few it up, put a quart of good milk in your dripping pan, bafte your hare with it till it is reduced to half a gill, then duft and bafte it well with butter, if it be a large one, it will require an hour and a half reading. To boil a Tongue. I IF your tongue be a dry one, fteep it in water all night, then boil it three hours, if you would have it eat hot, Rick it with cloves, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, Rrew over it bread crumbs, bade it with butter, fet it before the fire till it is a light brawn j when you didi it up, pour a little brown gravy, or red wine fauce, mixed the fame way as for venifon, lay Rices of currant jelly round it. iV. B. If it be a pickled one, only waRi it out of water. To boil a Ham. STEEP your nam all night in water, then boil it j if it be of a middle fize, it will take ^ 3 three•fa THE EXPERIENCED three hours boiling, and a fmall one two hours and a half; when you take it up, pull off the fkin, and rub it all over with an egg, flrew on bread crumbs, bafte it with butter, let it to the lire till it be a light brown ; if it be to eat hot, garnijfh with carrots and ferve it up. roaji a Haunch o/'Venison. WHEN you have fpitted your veniftm, lay over it a large fheet of paper, then a thin com- mon pafte with another paper over it, tie it well to keep the pafte from falling, if it be a large one it will take four hours roafting; when it is enough take off the paper and pafte, duft it well with flour, and bafte it with butter; when it is a light brown, difh it up with brown gravy in your difh, or currant jelly fauce, and fend fome in a boat. broil Beef Steaks. CUT your fteaks off a rump of beef about half an inch thick, let your fire be clear, rub your girdiron well with beef fuet, when it is hot lay them on, let them broil until they begin to brown, turn them, and, when the other fide is brown, lay them on a hot difh, with a flice of butter betwixt every fteak ; ^rinkle a little pep- per and fait over them, let them ftand two or three minutes, then flice a fhalot (as thin as pof- flble) into a fpoonful of water, lay on your fteaks again, keep turning them till they are enough, put them on your difli, pour the fhalot and water amongft them, and fend them to the table.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 71 A very good way to fry Beef Steaks. CUT your fteaks as for broiling, put them into a ftew-pan with a flood lump of butter, fet them over a very flow hre, keep turning them till the butter is become a thick white gravy, pour it into a bafon, and pour more butter to them; when they are almofl enough, pour all the gravy into your bafon, and put moie butter into your pan, fry them a light brown over a quick fire, take them out of the pan, put them in a hot pewter difh, flice a flialot among them; put a little in your gravy that was drawn from them, and pour it hot upon them : I think this is the beft way of dreffing beef fleaks. Half a pound of butter will drefs a large difh. ^0 drefs^EEF Steaks a common way,. FRY your fleaks in butter a good brown, then put in half a pint of water, an onion lliced, a fpoonful of walnut catchup, a little caper liquor, pepper and fait, cover them clofe with a difli, and let them flew gently ; when they are enough, thicken the gravy with flour and butter andferve them up, Yi? broil Mutton Steaks. CUT your fleaks half an inch thick, when your gridiron is hot rub it with frefh fuet, lay on your fleaks, keep' turning them as quick as poflible, if you do not take great care the fat that drops from the fleak will Imoke them ; when they are enough, put them into a hot difh, rub T 4 them72 THE EXPERIENCED To them well with butter, flice a (halot very thin into a fpoonful of water, pour it on them with a fpoonful of muihroom catchup and fait, ferve them up hot. To broil Pork Steaks. OBSERVE the fame as for the mutton {leaks, only pork requires more broiling when they are enough put in a little good gravy; a little fage rubbed very fine ilrewed over them gives them a fine tafle. To hajh Beef. CUT your beef in very thin flices, take a little of your gravy that runs from it, put it into a tofling pan with a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, flice a fhalot in, and put it over the fire j when it boils put in your beef; fhake it over the fire till it is quite hot, the gravy is not to be thickened, flice in a fmall pickle cucum- ber ; garnifh with fcra|Dped horfe-radifh or pick- led onions. To hafi Venison. CUT your venifon in thin flices, put a large glafs of red wine into a tofling pan, a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, the fame of browning, an onion ftuck with cloves, and half an anchovy chopped fmall; when it boils, put in your veni- fon, let it boil three or four minutes, pour it into a foup difh, and lay round it currant jelly, or red cabbage.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 73 To Mutton. . A CUT your mutton in flices, put a pint of gravy or broth into a toiling pan, with one Ipoonful of mufhroorp catchup, and one of browning, dice in an onion, a little pepper and fait, put it over the fire, and thicken it with dour and butter; when it boils put in your mut- ton, keep fhaking it till it is thoroughly hot, put it in a foup diih and ferve it up. To hafi Veal. CUT your veal in thin round flices, the fize of a half crown, put them into a fauce pan, with a little gravy and lemon peel cut exceeding fine, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, put it over the fire, and thicken it with flour and butter j when it boils put in your veal, juft before you difh it up put in a fpoonful of cream, lay fippets round your difh and ferve it up. To warm up Scotch Collops. WHEN you have any Scotch collops left, put them into a ftone jar rill you want them, then put the jar into a pan of boiling water, let it ftand till your collops are quite hot, then pour them into a difh, lay over them a few broiled bits of bacon, and they will eat as well as frelh ones. To mince Veal. your veal in flices, then cut it in little fquare bits, but do not chop it,put it into afauce- paii74 THE EXPERIENCED pan with two or three fpoonfuls of gravy, a flicft of lemon, a little pepper and fait, a good lump of butter rolled in flour, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, and a large fpoonful of cream; keep fhaking it over the fire till it boils, but do not let it boil above a minute, if you do it will make your veal eat hard: put fippets round your difh and ferve it up. hap^ a Turkey. TAKE off the legs, cut the thighs in tvVo pieces, cut off the pinions and brcafi: in pretty large pieces, take off the fldn or it will give the gravy a greafy tafte, put it into a ftew-pan, with a pint of gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a flice of the end of a lemon, and a little beaten mace; boil your turkey fixer feven minutes (if you boil it any longer it will make it hard) then put it on your difh, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, mix the yolks of two eggs with a fpoonful of thick cream, put it in your gravy, fhakeit over your fire till it is quite hot, but do not let it boil, firain it, and pour it over ymnH;urkey: lay fippets round, ferve it up, and garnifh with lemon or parfley. Ti? hajh Fowls. CUT up your fowl as for eating, put it in a . ; toffing pan, with 'half a pint of gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mulhroom j catchup, a flice of lemon, thicken it with flour j and butter; juft before you difh it up put in a |: fpoonful 1ENGLISH FIOUSE-KEEPER. 75 • fpoonful of good cream ; lay fippets round your dilh and ferve it up. A nice way to drefs a Cold Fowl. PEEL off all the iLin, and pull the flcfh off the bones in as large pieces as you can, then dredge ir wiih a little flour, and fry it a nice brown in butter, tofs it up in rich gravy, well fealoned, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour: jufl: before you fepd it up fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. 'To hajlo a Woodcock, Partridge. CUT your woodcock up as for earing, work the cntrdils very fine with the back of a fpoon, mix it wi:h a fpoonful of red wine, the fame of water, half a fpoonful of allegar, cut an onion in flices and pull it into rings, roll a little butter in. flour, put them all in your tofling pan, and fliake It over the fire till it boils, then put in your woodcock, and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it in your difh with flppets round it, drain the fauce over the woodcock, and lay on the onion in lings; it is a pretty corner difli for dinner or fupper. To hajh a Wijld Duck. CUT up your duck as for eating, put it in a tofling pan, with a fpoonful of good gravy, the fame of red wine, a little of your onion fauce, or an onion fliced exceeding thin j when it has boiled two or three minutes, lay the duck in75 THE EXPERIENCED To in your difh, pour the gravy over it, it mufl: not be thickened, you may add a tea fpoonful of caper liquor, ora little browning. # To hajh a Hare. Cut your hare in fmall pieces, if you have any of the pudding left, rub it fmall, put to it a large glafs of red wine, the fame quantity of water, half an anchovy chopped fmall, an onion ftuck with four cloves, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, fhake them all together over a flow fire, till your hare is thoroughly hot, it is a bad cuftom to let any kind of hafli boil longer (it makes the meat eat hard) fend your hare to the table in a deep difli, lay fippets round it, but take out the Onion, and ferve it up. 'To boil Cabbage. CUT off the outfide leaves, and cut it in quar- ters, pick it well, and wafh it clean, boil it in a large quantity of water, with plenty of fait in it 5 v/hen it is tender, and a fine light green, lay it on a fieve to drain, but don’t fqueeze it, if you do, it will take off the flavour j have ready fome very rich melted butter, or chop it with cold butterj—Greens mufl be boiled the fame way. To boil a COLLYFLOWER. WASH and clean your collyflower, boil it in plenty of milk and water (but no fait) till it be tender; when you difh it up, lay greens under it; pour over it good melted butter, and fend it up hot.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER'. 77 To 1*0 boil Brocoli in Imitation of Asparagus. TAKE the fide fiioots of brocoli, ftrip off the leaves, and with a pen-knife take off all the out- rind up to the heads, tie them in bunches, and put them in fait and water, have ready a pan of boiling water, with a handful of fait in it, boil them ten minutes; then lay them in bunches, and pour over them good melted butter. To few Spinage. WASH your fpinage well in feveral waters, put it in a cullendar, have ready a large pan of Doiling water, with a handful of fait, put it in, let it boil two minutes, it will fake off the ftrong earthy tafte, then put it into a fieve, fqueeze it well, put a quarter of a pound of but- ter into a tofiing pan, put in your fpinage, keep turning and chopping it with a knife until it be quite dry and green, lay it upon a plate, prefs it with another, cut it in the fhape of fippets or diamonds, pour round it very rich melted butter, it will eat exceeding mild, and quite a different tafle from the common way. To boil Artichokes. IF they are young ones, leave about an inch of the flalks, put them in a ftrong fait and water for an hour or two, then put them in a pan of cold water, fet them over the fire, but dq not cover them, it will takeoff their colour; when you difh them up, put rich melted butter, in final 1 cups or pots, like rabbits, put them in the difli with your artichokes, and fend them up.7^ THE EXPERIENCED Ti?Asparagus. SCRAPE your afparagus, tie them in fmall bunches, boil them in a large pan of watdr with fait in it; before you difh them up toaft fome flices of white bread, and dip them in the boil- ing water, lay the afparagus on your toafts, pour on them very rich melted butter, and ferve them up hot. Xo French Beans. CUT the ends of your beans off, then cut them flant-ways, put them in a ftrong fait and water, as you do them, let them ftand an hour, boil them in a large quantity of water with a handful of fait in it, they will be a fine green; when you difh them up, pour on them melted butter, and fend them up. To boil Windsor Beans. BOIL them in a good quantity of fait and water, boil and chop fome parfiey, put it in good melted butter; ferve them up with bacon in the middle if you choofe it. To boil Green Pease, SHELL your peafe juft before you want them, put them into boiling water, with a lit- tle fait and a lump of loaf fugar, when they begin to dent in the middle they are enough, ftrain them in a fieve, put a good lump of but- ter into a mug, give your peafe a ftiake, put Q ' theni 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 79 them on a dilh, and fend them to the table.—-- Boil a fprig of mint in another water, chop it fine, and lay it in lumps round the edge of your difh. . ^0 boil Parsnips. WASH your parfnips very well, boil them till they are foft, then take off the fkin, beat them in a bowl with a little fait, put to them a little cream and a lump of butter, put them in a toffing pan, and let them boil till they are like a light cuftard pudding, put them on a plate, and fend them to the table. ' CHAP IV. Obfer-oations on Made Dishes. Be careful the toffing pan is well tinned, quite clean, and not gritty, and put every ingredient into your white fauce, and have it of a proper thicknefs, and well boiled, before you put in eggs and cream, for they will not add much to the thicknefs, nor ftir them with a fpoon after they are in, nor fet ;^our pan on the fire, for it will gather at the bottom and be in lumps, but hold your pan a good height from the fire, and keep fhaking the pan round one way, it will keep the fauce from curdling, and be fure you do not let it bo^l; it is the bed: way to take up your meat, collops, or haffi, or any otherSq the experienced other kind of diOi you are making with a fifli flice, and ftrain your fauce upon it, for it is almoft impoffible to prevent little bits of meat from mixing with the fauce, and by this mea- thod the fauce will look clear. In the brown made difhes take fpecial care no fat is on the top of the gravy, but fkim it clean off, and that it be of a fine brown^^and tafte of no one thing in particular; if you ufe any wine put it in fome time before your difh is ready, to take off the rawnefs, for nothing can give a made difh a more difagreeable tafle than raw wine, or frefh anchovy : when you ufe fryed forcemeat balls, put them on a fieve to drain th6 fat from them, and never let them boil in your fauce, it will give them a greafy look, and foften the balls; the beft way is to put them in after your meat is diflied up. You may ufe pickled mufhrooms, artichoke bottoms, morels, truffles, and forcemeat balls in almoft every made difh, and in feveral you may ufe a roll of forcemeat inftead of balls, as in the porcupine breaft of veal, and where you can ufe it, it is much handfomer than balls, efpecially in a mock turtle, collared or ragooed breaft of veal, or any large made difh. 'To make Lemon Pickle. TAKE two dozen of lemons, grate off the out-rinds very thin, cut them in four quarters, but leave the bottoms whole, rub on them equally half a pound of bay fait, and fpread them on a large pewter difh, put them in a cool oven, or let them dry gradually by the fire' ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. St till all the juice is dried into the peels, then put them into a pitcher well glazed ; with one ounce of mace; half an ounce of cloves beat fine, one ounce of nutmeg cut in thin flices, four ounces of garlick peeled, half a pint of muf- tard feed bruifed a little, and tied in a mullin bag, pour two quarts of boiling white wine vinegar upon them, clofe the pitcher well up, and let it hand five or fix days by the fire fhake it well up every day, then tie it up and let it hand for three months to take off the bitter ; when you bottle it; put the pickle and lemon in a hair fieve, prefs them well to get out the liquor, and let it hand till another day, then pour off the fine and bottle it; let the other hand three or four days and it will refine itfelf, pour it off and bottle it, let it hand again and bottle it, till the whole is refined ; it may be put in any white fauce, and will not hurt the colour; it is very good for filh fauce and made dhheS, a tea fpoonful is enough for white, and two for brown fauce for a fowl j it is a moh ufeful ■pickle and gives a pleafant flavour : be hire yon put it in before you thicken the fauce, or put any cream in, left the hiarpnefs make it curdlco Browning for Made Dishes* BEAT fmall four ounces of treble refined ■fugar, put it in a clean iron frying pan, with one ounce of butter, fet it over a clear fire, . mix it very well together all the time; when it begins to be frothy, the fugar is diffolving, hold it higher over the fire, have ready a pint G of82 - THE EXPERIENCED of red wine; when the fugar and butter is of a deep brown, pour in a little of the wine, ftir it well together, then add more wine, and keep flirring it all the time; put in half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, fix cloves, four lhalots peeled^ two or three blades of mace, three fpoonfuls of mufiiroom catchup, a little fait, the out-rinds of one lemon, boil them flowly for ten minutes, pour it into a bafon, when cold take off the Icum very clean,, and bottle it for ufe^ To drefs a Mock Turtle. TAKE the largefl; calf’s head you can get, with the Ikin on, put it in Raiding water till you find the hair will come off, clean it well,, and walk it in warm water, and boil it three quarters- of an hour,, then take it out of the water and flit it down the face, cut off all the meat along with the fkin as clean from the bone as you can, and be careful you do not break the ears off, lay it on a flat difh, and fluff the ears with forcemeat, and tie them round with cloths,, take the eyes out, and pi^^lL the refl of the meat -clean from the bp^les, put it in a tofling pan, with the niceflc^nd fattefl part of another calf’s- head, without the flcin on, boiled as long as the above, and three quarts of veal gravy, lay the fkin in the pan on the meat with the flefli fide up, cover the pan clofe, and let it flew over a moderate fire one hour, then put in three fweetbreads fryed a light brown, one ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, five artichoke bot- toms boiled, one anchovy boned and chopped • fmalh.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 8^ fiiiall, a tea fpoonful of Chyan pepper, a fait, half a lemon, three pints of Madeira wne, two meat fpoonfuls of mulhroom catchup, one of lemon pickle,* half a pint of mufhrooms^ and let them ftew flowly half an hour longer^ and thicken it with flour and butter; have ready the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brains of both heads boiled, cut the brains the lize of nutmegs, and make a rich forcemeat, and fpread it on the caul of a leg of veal, roll it up and boil it in a cloth one hour; when boiled, cut it in three parts, the middle largefl, then take up the meat into the difli, and lay the head over it with the fkin fide up, and put the largeft piece of forcemeat between the ears, and make the top of the ears to meet round it; (this is called the crown of the turtle) lay the other flices of the forcemeat oppoflte to each other at the narrow^ end, and lay a few of the truffles, morels, brains, muflirooms, eggs, and artichoke bottoms upon the face and round it, flrain the gravy boiling hot upon it, be as quick in difhing it up as poflible, for it foon goes cold. Mock Turtle «fecondway, ^ DRESS the hair of a calf's head as before, boil it half an hour, when boiled cut it in pieces half an inch thick, and one inch and a half long^ put it into a flew pan, with two quarts of veal gravy, and fait to yourtafle; let it flew one hour, then put in a pint of Madeira wine, half a tea fpoonful of Chyan pepper, truffles and ^ 2 morels /84 TiiE experienced' morels one ounce each, three or four artichoke bottoms boiled and cut in quarters ; when the meat begins to look clear, and the gravy ftrong, put in half a lemon, and thicken it with flour and butter, fry a few forcemeat balls, beat four yolks of hard boiled eggs in a mortar very fine, with a lump of butter, and make them into balls the fize. of pigeons eggs; put the forcemeat balls and eggs in after you have dilhed it up. IV. B. A lump of butter put in the water makes the artichoke bottoms boil white and fooner. Ho make an Artificial Turtle. SCALD a calf’s head, cut it in pieces one inch thick, two broad, and four long, parboil a falmon’s liver, cut it in ten or twelve pieces, feafon the whole with beaten mace, fait, and Chyan, put them into a well-lined copper dilh, with a pint and half of gravy made of veal, fix anchovies, a blade of mace, and a fprig of fweet marjoram (your gravy muft be very good) a pint of Madeira wine, the juice of four or five lemons ftrained from the feeds, the yolks of ten or tv/elve eggs boiled hard, and about three dozen of forcemeat balls, made as-the receipt diredtslet it hew gently about an hour, al- ways keep it clofe covered, and flir in a lump of butter the fize of an orange, with a tea fpoonful of fine flour rolled in it, and let it flew full tv/o hours longer ; if you perceive it wants addition of feafoning, &c. add to it a few mi- nutes before you ferve it up, which mufl: be in a foupENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 85 a foup difli or tureen, with the yolks and dices of lemon on the top ; take care to fkiin ofF the fat before you dhh it up. To make Forcemeatfor ^/zArtificialTurtle, TAKE a pound of the fat of adoin of veal, the fame of lean, with fix boned anchovies, beat them fine in a marble mortar, feafon with mace, Chyan, fait, a little Hired pardey, fweet mar- joram, fome juice of lemon; and three or four fpoQiifuls of Madeira wine, mix thefe well to- gether, and make it into little balls, duft thern with a little fine dour, and put them into your didi to flew about half an hour before you ferve it up; the green d^iin of a falmon’s head is a very great addition to your turtle; boil it a little, then flew it among the red; of the other things. To wake a Calf’s Head 'Hafo. CLEAN your calf’s head exceeding well, and boil it a quarter of an hour : when it is cold cut the meat into thin broad dices, and put it into a toding pan, with two quarts of gravy; and when it has flewed three quarters of an hour, add to it one anchovy, a little beaten mace, and Chyan to your tade, two tea fpoonfuls of lernon pickle, two meat fpoonfuls of walnut catchup, hall an ounce of truffles and morels, a dice or two . of lemon, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a glafs ot white wine, mix a quarter of a pound of butter witn dour, and put it in a few minutes before the head is enough; take your brains and put them into hot water, it will make them dcin P 3 fooner.86 THE EXPERIENCED fooner, and beat them fine in a bafon, then add to them two eggs, one fpoonfal of flour, a bit of lemon peel fhred fine, chop fmall a little par- fley, thyme, and fage, beat them very well to- gether, ftrew in a little pepper and fait, then drop them in little cakes into a panful of boil- ing hog’s lard, and fry them a light brown, then lay them on a fieve to drain; take your hath out of the pan with a fifli flice, and lay it on your difh, and ftrain your gravy over jt, lay upon it a few muflirooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brain-cakes; garnilh with lemon and pickles. It is proper for a top or fide difh. To drefsaCh'LT's Head the beji way. TAKE a calf’s head with the fkin on, and fcald off all the hair and clean it very well, cut it in two, take out the brains, boil the head very white and tender, take one part quite off the bone, and cut it into nice pieces with the tongue, dredge it with a little flour, and let it flew on a flow fire for about half an hour in rich white ' gravy made of veal, mutton, and a piece of bacon, feafoned with pepper, fait, onion, and a very little mace ; it muft be ftrained off before the hafh is put in it, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour ; the other part of the head mufl: be taken off in one whole piece, fluff it with nice forcemeat, and roll it like a collar, and flew it tender in gravy, then put it in the middle of the difh, and the hafli all round, gar- nifh it with forcemeat balls^ fried oyflers, and /ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 87 t?ie brains made into little cakes dipped in rich butter and fried. You may add wine, morels, truffles, or what you pleafe to make it good and rich. Todrefs a Calf’*s Head Surprise. DRESS off the hair of a large calf’s head as directed in the mock turtle, then takeafflarp pointed knife and raife off the ikin, with as much of the meat from the bones as you poffi- bly can get, that it may appear like a whole head when it is duffed, and be careful'you do not cut the fkin in holes, then fcrape a pound of fat bacon-, the crumb of two penny loaves, grate a fmall nutmeg with fait, Chyan pepper, and fhred lemon peel to your tade, the yolks of fix eggs well beat, mix all up into a rich forcemeat, put a little into the ears and duff the head with the remainder, have ready a deep narrow pot that it will jud go in, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, the fame of walnut and mudi- room catchup, one anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, a little fait and Chyan pepper, lay a coarfe pade over it to keep in the deam ^ and let it in a very quick oven two hours and a half, when you take it out lay your head in a foup dilh, ddm the fat clean off the gravy, and drain it through a hair fieveinto a toffmg pan, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour; when it has boiled a few mi- nutes, put in the yolk of flx eggs well beat, and mixed with half a pint of cream, but do not G 4' let88 THE EXPERIENCED let it boil, it will curdle the eggs; you muft have ready boiled a few forcemeat balls, half an ounce of truffles and morels, it would make the gravy too dark a colour to flew them in it; pour your gravy over your head, and garnifh with the truffles, morels, forcemeat balls, mufhroorasj and barberries, and ferve it up. ;—This is a handforne top diffl at a fmall expence. To grill a Calf’s Head. WASH your calf’s head clean and boil it al- mofl enough, then take it up and hafli one half, the other half rub over with the yolk of an egg, a little pepper and fait, flrew over it bread crumbs, parfley chopped fmall, and a little grated lem.on peel, fet it before the fire and keep bafting it all the time to make the froth rife; when it is a fine light brown, difli up your hafh, and lay the grilled fide upon it. Blanch your tongue, flit it down the middle, and lay it on a foup plate; fkin the brains, boil them with a little fiige and parfley ; chop them fine, and) mix them with fome melted butter, and a fpoonful of cream, make them hot, and pour them over the tongue, ferve them up, and they are fauce for the head. To collar a Calf’s Head. TAKE a calf’s head with the fldn on and fcald it, clean it well, then bone it, feafon it with pepper, fait, cloves, mace, and a little ginger, all ground very fine, take fome cochi- neal, diffolve it in fome water, rub it on the ' ’ • ' infideENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 8^ infide of the head with a little, bay fait and ^ large handful of chopped parlley, roll it up light in a cloth, and boil it till you think it is enough in a pickle made of all forts of fweet herbs, fpices, and fome red wine, then unroll the cloth and roil it tight again, and put weights upon it as it lies in the pickle to prefs it clofe ti'll it is cold, then boil fome bran and water with fome bay and common fait, ftrain it off, and when they are both cold put it in the head, and let it lie three or four days before you ufe it. ^0 make a Porcupine a Breast o/'Veal, BONE the fined; and larged bread pf veal you can get, rub it over with the yolks of twq eggs, fpread it On a table, lay over it a little bacon cut as thin as poflible, a handful of parlley ihred fine, tfie yolks of five hard boiled eggs 'chopped fmall, a little lemon peel cut fine, nut- ineg, pepper, and fait to your tade, and the .crumb of a penny loaf deeped in cream, roll the bread clofe, and Ikewer it up, then cut fat bacon and the lean of ham that has been a little boiled, or it will turn the veal red, and pickled cucumbers about two inches long to anfwer the other lardings, and lard it in rows, fird ham, then bacon, then cucumbers, till you have larded it aU over the veal; put it in a deep earthen pot, with a pint of water, and cover it and fep it ip a llovy oven two hours ; when it pomes from the oven ikim the fat off, arfd drain the gravy through a fieve into a dew-pan, put in a glafs of white wine, a little lemon pickle i ' andgo THE EXPERIENCED 2nd taper liquor, a fpoonful of muihroom catch- up, thicken it with a little butter, rolled in flour, hy your porcupine on the difli, and pour it hot upon it, cut a roll of forcemeat in four flices, lay one at each end and the other at the fides 5 have ready your fweetbread cut in flices and fried, lay them round it with a few mulhrooms. It is a grand bottom dilh when game is not to be had. N. B. Make the forcemeat of a few chopped oyfters, the crumbs of a penny loaf, half a pound of beef fuet flired fine, and the yolks of four eggs, mix them well together with nutmeg, Chyan pepper, and fait to your palate, fpread it on a veal caul, and roll it up dole like a collared eel, bind it in a cloth and boij it one hour. To ragoo a Breast of Veal. HALF roafl; a bread: of veal, then bone it and put it in a tofling pan, with a quart of veal gravy, one ounce of morels, the fame of truffles. Hew it till tender, and jufl: before you thicken the gravy, put in a few oyfters, pickled mufh- rooms, and pickled cucumbers, cut in fmall fquare pieces, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, cut your fweetbread in flices, and fry it a light brown, difti up your veal and pour the gravy hot over it, lay your fweetbread round, morels, truffles, and eggs upon it: garnifh with pickled barberries ; this is proper for either top or fide for dinner, or bottom for fupper.I^NGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 9J To collar a Breast ^Veal. TAKE the hneft breaft of veal, bone it, and rub it over with the yolks of two eggs, and Rrew over it fome crumbs of bread, a little grated Icrnon, a little pepper and fait, a handful of .chopped parfley, roll it up tight and bind it hard with twine, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it *one hour and a half, then take it up to cool, when a little cold take off the cloth, and clip off the twine carefully, left you open the veal, cut it in five dices, lay them on a difh with the fweetbread boiled and cut in thin dices and laid round theni, with ten or twelve forcemeat ballsy pour over your white fauce, and garnifh with barberries or green pickles. The white fauce muft be made thus:—Take a pint of good veal gravy, put to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, half an anchovy, a tea fpoon- ful of mudiroom powder, or a fewpickledmufh- rooms, give it a gentle boil; then put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs beat dne, fliake it over the fire after the eggs and cream is in, but do not let it boil, it will curdle the cream. It is proper for a top didi at night, or a fide difti for dinner. A boiled Bkzast o/Y-eal. ^ SKEWER your bread of veal, that it will lie fiat in the difh, boil it one hour (if a laro-e one an hour and a quarter) make a white fauce as before-mention.ed for the collared one, pour it over, and garnifh it with pickles. ATHE EXPERIENCED. ^Neck of Neai. Cutlets. CUT a neck of veal into cutlets, fry them a fine brown, then put them into a tolling pan, and flew them till tender in a quart of gyod gravy, then add one fpoonful of brownin,^, the fame of catchup, forne fried forcemeat balls, a few truffles, morels, and pickled mufflrooms, a lit- tle fait, and Chyan pepper, thicken your gtavy with flour and butter, let it boil a few minutes, lay your cutlets in the difli, with the top of the ribs in the middle,, pour yourfauce over them, lay your balls, morels, truffles, and muflarooms pver the cutlets, and fend them up. A Neck ^Veal a-la^royal. CUT off the fprag-end and part of the chine- bone to make it lie flat in the difli, then chop a few muflarooms, fhalots, a little parfley and thyme, all very fine, witn pepper and fait, cut middle-flzed lards of bacon, and roll them in the herbs, &c. and lard the lean part of the neck, put it in a ftew-pan with fome lean bacon or flaank of ham, and the chine-bone and ferag cut in pieces, with three or four carrots, onions, a head of celery, and a little beaten mace, pour in as much water as will cover the pan very clofe, and let it flew flowly for two or three hours, till tender, then ftrain half a'pint of the licjuorout ofithe pan through a fine fleve, fet it over a flove, and let it boil, keep flirring it till it is dry at the bottom, and of a good brown; be fure you do not let it burn, then add more of the liquor llrained freeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 9^ free from fat, and keep ftirringit till it becomes a fine thick brown glaze, then take the veal out of the ftew-pan, and wipe it clean, and put the larded fide down upon the glaze, fet it over a gentle fire five or fix minutes to take the glaze, then lay it in the difli with the glazed fide up, and put into the fame fiew-pan as much flour as will lie on a fix-pence, ftir it about well, and add foine of the braize liquor, if any left; let it boil till it is of a proper thicknefs, fiirain it and pour it in the bottom of the difh, fqueeze in a little juice of lemon and ferve it up. Bombarded Veal. CUT the bone nicely out of a fillet, make a forcemeat of the crumbs of a penny loaf, half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, a little lemon peel or lemon thyme, parfley, two or three fprigs of fweet marjoram, one anchovy, chop them all very well, grate a little nutmeg, Chyan pep- per and fait to your palate, mix all up together with egg and a little cream, and fill up the place where the bone came out with the forcemeat, th^n cut the fillet acrofs, in cuts about one inch from another all round the fillet, fill one nick with forcemeat, a fecond with boiling fpinage, that is boiled and well fqueezed, a third with bread crumbs, chopped oyft«rs, aiid beef mar- row, then forcemeat, and fill them up as above all round the fillet, wrap the caul clofe round it, and put it in a deep pot with a pint of water, make a coarfe pafte to lay over it, to keep the oven from giving it a fiery taftej jfifhen it comes out94 the experienced out of the oven, fldm off the fat and put the gravy in a ftew-pan, with a fpoonful of lemon pickle, and another of mufhroom catchup; two of browning, half an ounce of morels, and truf- fles, five boiled artichoke bottoms cut in quar- ters, thicken the fauce with flour and butter, give it a gentle boil, and pour it upon the veal into your dilh. To make a Frycand'o ^Veal. CUT fleaks half an inch thick, and fix inches long, out of the thick part of a leg of Veal, lard them with fmall cardoons, and dull: them with flour, put them before the fire to broil a fine brown, then put them into a large tofling pan with a quart of good gravy and let it flew half an hour, then put in two tea-fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, a meat fpoonful of walnut.catch- up, the fame of browning, a flice of lemon, a little anchovy and Chyan, a few morels and truffles 5 when your fricandos are tender, take them up, and thicken your gravy with flour and butter, flrain it, place your fricandos in the difli, pour your gravy on them: garnifh with lemons and barberries. You may lay round them forcemeat balls fried, or forcemeat rolled in a veal caul, and yolks of eggs boiled hard. To makeY^A-L Olives. CUT the thick part of a leg of veal in thin flices, flatten them with the broad fide of a cleaver, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, ftrewENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.’ 95 flrew over every piece a very thin flice of bacon, Rrew over them a few bread crumbs, a little lemon peel, and parfley chopped fmall, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, roll them up clofe and dcewer them tight, then rub them with the yolk of eggs, and roll them in bread crumbs and par- lley chopped fmall, put them into a tin drip- ping-pan to bake or fry them; then take a pint of good gravy, add to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, the fame of walnut catchup, and one of browning, a little anchovy and Chyan pepper, thicken it with flour and butter, ferve them up v/ith forcemeat balls, and ftrain the gravy hot upon them : garnhh with pickles, and ftrew over them a few pickled muflirooms.—^Yoii may drefs veal cutlets the fame way, but not roll them. / ■Vt Yi? fnake Veal Olives afecond Way. CUT large collops of a fillet of veal, and hack them very well with the back of a knife, Ipread forcemeat very thin oyer every one, roll them up and roafl: them, or bake them in an oven, make a ragoo of oyfiers and fweet-breads diced, a few morels and muihrooms, and lay them in the dilh with the rolls of veal; if you have oyfliers enough, chop and mix feme with the forcemeat, it makes it much better; force- meat balls look very pretty round them ;there muflibe nice brown gravy in thedifli, an they -mull be fent up hot.96 THE EXPERlEIv^CEb' To drefs Scotch Collops white, CUT them oft the thick part of a leg of veal, the fize and thicknefs of a crown piece, put a lump of butter into a tofting pan, and fet it over a flow fire or it will difcolour your collops; be- fore the pan is hot lay the collops in, and keep turning them,over till you fee the butter is turned to thick white gravy •, put your collops and gravy in a pot, and let them upon the hearth, to keep warm, put cold butter again into your pan every time you fill it, and fry them as above, and lo continue till you have finifhed; when you have fried them pour your gravy from them into your pan, with a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, mulhroom catchup, caper liquor, beaten mace, Chyan pepper, and fait, thicken with flour and butter, when it has boiled five minutes, put in the yolks of two eggs well beat and mixed, with a tea-cupful of rich cream; keep ihaking your pan over the fire till your gravy looks of a fine thicknefs, then put in your collops and fhake them, when they are quite hot, put them on your dilh with^ forcemeat balls, ftrew over them pickled muftirooms: garnilh with barberries and kidney-beans. To drefs Scotch Collops brown. CUT your collops the fame way as the whits ones, but brown your butter before you lay in your collops, fry them over a quick firCj ftaake and turn them, and keep them on a fine froth? * when they are a light brown, put them into a potENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. . 97 pot, and fry them as the white ones j when you have fried them all brown, pour all the gravy from them into a clean tofling-pan, with half a pint of gravy made of the bones and bits you cut the collops off, two tea fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, a large one of catchup, the. fame of browning, half an ounce of morels, half a le- mon, a little anchovy, Chyan, and fait to your tafte, thicken it with flour and butter, let it boil five or fix minutes, then put in your col- lops, and fliake them over the fire; if they boil it will make them hard; when they have fim- mered a little, take them out with an egg fpoon, and lay them on your diih, ftrain your gravy and pour it hot on them, lay over them force- meat balls, and little flices of bacon curled round a fkewer and boiled, throw a few mufli- rooms over : garnifh with lemon and barberries, and ferve them up. To drefs Scotch Collops the French Way, TAKE a leg of veal, and cut your collops pretty thick, five or fix inches long, and three inches broad, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, ,put pepper and fait, and grate a little nutmeg on them, and a little fhred parfley ^ lay them on an earthen dith, and fet them before the fire, bafie them with butter, and let them be a fine brown, then turn them on the other fide,and rub them as above,bafie and brown them the fame way; when they are thoroughly enough, make a good brown gravy with truffles and mo- rels, difli up your collops, lay truffles and morels, W and98 THE EXPERIENCED and the }K)lks of hard boiled eggs over them; garnifli with crifp parlley and lemon. Sweet-Breads a-la-daub, TAKE three of the largeft and fined: fweet- breads you can get, put them in a fauce pan of boiling water for five minutes, then take them out, and when they are cold lard them with a row down the middle, with very little pieces of bacon, then a row on each fide with lemon peel cut the fize of wheat ftraw ; then a row on each lide of pickled cucumbers, cut very fine, put them in a toffing pan, with good veal gravy, a'/ little juice of lemon, a fpoonful of browning, ftew them gently a quarter of an hour; a little before they are ready thicken them with flour and butter, dilh them up and pour the gravy over, lay round them bunches of boiled celery, or oyfter patties ; garnifli with flewed fpinage, green coloured parfley, flick a bunch of barber- ries-in the middle of each fweet-bread. It is a pretty corner difli for either dinner or fuppcr. Forced Sweet-Breads, PUT three fweet-breads in boiling water five minutes, beat the yolk of an egg a little, and rub it over them with a feather, flrew on bread crumbs, lemon peel, and parfley fhred very fine, nutmeg, fait, and pepper to your palate, fet them before the fire to brown, and add to them a little veal gravy, put a little mufliroom pow- der, caper liquor, or juice oi lemon and brown- ing, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, and pour it in your diih, lay in your fweet-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 99 fweet-breads, and lay over them lemon peel in rings, cut like ftraws: garnilE with pickles. Tofricajfee Sweet-Breads. SCALD three fweet-hreads, when cold cut them in dices the thicknefs of a crown pfece, dip them in batter, and fry them in frefh butter a nice brown, make a gravy for them as the laft, flew your fweet-breads Howly in the gravy eight or ten minutes, lay them on your difh, and pour the gravy over them: garnifli with lemon or barberries. To fricajfee Sweet-Breads white, SCALD and dice the fweet-breads as before, put them in a tolling pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a fpoonful of white wine, the fame of mudiroom catchup, a little beaten mace, ftew them a quarter of an hour, thicken your gravy with dour and butter a little before they are enough j when you are going to didi them up, mix the yolk of an egg with a tea-cupful of thick cream, and a little grated nutmeg, put it into your tolling pan, and diake it well over the dre, but do not let it boil, lay your fweet-breads on your difh, and pour your fauce over them ; gar- nidi with pickled red beet-root and kidney- beans. To ragoo Sweet-Breads. RUB them over with the yolk of an egg, drew over them bread crumbs and pardey, thyme H 2 andICO THE EXPERIENCED and fwcet marjoram Hired fmall, and pepper and fait, make a roll of forcemeat like a fweet- bread, and put it in a veal caul, and roaft them in a Dutch oven, take fome brown gravy, and put to it a little lemon pickle, mulhroom catch- up, and the end of a lemon, boil the gravy, and when the fweet-breads are enough, lay them in a dilh, with a forcemeat in the-middle, take the end of the lemon out, and pour the gravy into the difliand ferve them up. I’oJiew a Fillet of Veal. TAKE a fillet of a cow calf, fiuff it well under the elder, at the bone and quite through to the fhank, put it in the oven with a pint of water under it, till it is a fine brown, then put it in a ftew-pan with three pints of gravy, flew it tender, put in a few morels, truffles, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of brown- ing, and one of catchup, and a little Chyan pep- per, thicken with a lump of butter rolled in flour, difli up your veal, flrain your gravy over, lay round forcemeat balls: garnifli with pickles and lemon. T’o ragoo a Fillet of Veal. LARD your fillet and half roafl; it, then put it in a tolling pan, with two quarts of good gravy, cover it clofc and let it flew till tender, then add one fpoonful of white wine, one of browning, one of catchup, a tea fpoonful of I'emon pickle, a little caper liquor, half an ounce (ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. loi of morels, thicken with flour and butter, lay round it a few yolks of eggs. A good Way to drefs a Midcalf. TAKE a calf’s heart, Ruff it with good forcemeat, and fend it to the oven in an earthen difli with a little water under it, lay butter over it, and dredge it with flour, boil half the liver and all the lights together half an hour, then chop them fmall, and put them in a toflang pan' with a pint of gravy, one fpoonful of lemon pickle and one of catchup, fqueeze in half a le- mon, pepper and fait, thicken with a good piece of butter rolled in flour ; when you difli it up, pour the minced meat in the bottom, and have ready fried a fine brown the other half of the liver cut in thin flices, and little bits of bacon, fet the heart in the middle, and lay the liver and bacon over the minced meat, and ferve it up, 'To difguife a Leg i^Veal. LARD the top fide of a leg of veal in rows with bacon, and ftuff it well with forcemeat made of oyflers, then put it into a large fauce- pan with as much water as will cover it, 'put on a clofe lid to keep in the Ream, flew it gently till quite tender, then take it up and boil down the gravy in the pan to a quart, fkim off the fat and add half a lemon, a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, a little lemon pickle, the crumbs of half a penny loaf grated exceeding fine, boil it in your gravy till it looks thick, then add half a pint of oyflers, if not thick enough, roll a H 3 lump102 THE EXPERIENCED lump of butter in flour and put it in, with half a pint of good cream, and the yolks of three eggs, fliake your fauce over the fire, but do not let It boil after the eggs are in left it curdle j put your veal in a deep dith, and pour the fauce over it . garnifh with crifped parfley and fried oyfters, It is an excellent difti for the top of a large table, _ ^ Har ICO of a Neck ^Mutton, X • CUT the beft end of a neck of mutton into chops, in Angle ribs, flatten them, and fry them a light brown, then put them into a large fauce- pan with two quarts of water, a large carrot cut in flices, cut at the edge like wheels j when they have ftewed a quarter of an hour, put in two turnips cut in fquare flices, the white part of a head of celery, a few heads of afparagus, two cabbage lettuces fried, and Chyan to your tafte, boil them all together till they are tender, the gravy is not to be thickened ; put it into a tureen, or foup difti. It is proper fora top difh, To drefs a Neck of Mutton to eat like Venison, / ' CUT a large neck before the fhoulder is taken off, broader than ufual, and the flap of the-ftioulder with it, to make it lookhandlomer; flick your neck all over in little holes with a fliarp penknife, and pour a bottle of red wine upon it, and let it lie in the wine four or five days, turn and rub it three or four times a day, then tal^:e it out and hang it up for three days in 5 - IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 103 the open air out of the fun, and dry it often with a cloth to keep it from mulling i when you roaft.it bafte it with the wine it was fteeped m if any left, if not, frefti wine, put white paper three or four folds to keep in the fat, roaft it tlioroughly, and then take off the fkin, and froth it nicely, and ferveit up. To make French Steaks of a Neck of Mutton. LET vour mutton be very good and large, and cut off moft part of the fat of the neck, and then cut the fteaks two inches thick, make a large hole through the middle of the flefliy part of every fteak with a penknife, and fluff it with forcemeat made of bread crumbs, beef fuet, a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, mixed up with the yolk of an egg ; when they are fluffed, wrap them in writing paper, and put them in a Dutch oven, fet them before the fire to broil, they will take near an hour, put a little brown gravy in your difh, and ferve them up in the papers. A Shoulder ^Mutton fiirprifed. HALF boil a fhoulder, then put it in a tof- ' fing-pan with two quarts of veal gravy, four ounces of rice, a tea fpoonful of mufhroom powder, a little beaten mace, and flew it one hour, or till the rice is enough, then take up your mutton and keep it hot, put to the rice half a pint of good cream, and a lump of butter rolled in flour, lhake it well and boil it a few minutes ;day your mutton on the difh and pour H 4 . it104. the experienced it over : garnifli with barberries or pickles, and fend it up. To drefs a Shoulder of Mutton, called Hen and Chickens. HALF roaft a fhoulder, then take it up, and cut off the blade at the firft joint, and both the flaps to make the blade round, fcore the blade, round in diamonds, throw a little pepper and fait over it, and fet it in a tin oven to broil, cut the flaps and the meat off the fhank in thin flices into the gravy that runs out of the mutton, and put a little good gravy to it, with two fpoonfuls of walnut catchup, one of browning, a little Chyan pepper, and one or two Ihalots; when your meat is tender, thicken it with flour and butter, putyour meat in the difli with the gravy, and lay the blade on the top, broiled a dark brown : garnifh with green pickles, and ferve it up. To boil a Shoulder of Mutton with Onion Sauce. PUT your Ihoulder in when the water is cold, when enough fmother it with onion fauce, made the fame as for boiled ducks,—You may drefs a fhoulder of veal the fame way. A Shoulder ^Mutton and Celery Sauce. BOIL it as before till it is quite enough, pour over it celery fauce, and fend it to the table.—• N. B.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 105 N. B. The fauce—Wafh and clean ten heads of celery, cut off the green tops, and take off the outiide ftalks, cut them into thin bits, and boil ' it in gravy till it is tender, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over your mutton.—A flioulderof veal roafled with this faucc is very ' good. Mutton kebobed, CUT a loin of mutton in four pieces, take off the fldn, and rub them with the yolk of an egg, ffrew over them a few breadcrumbs, and a little fhred parfley, turn them round and fpit them, roafl: them and keep balling all the while with frefh butter, to make the froth rife ^ when they-are enough, put a little brown gravy under, and ferve them up; garnifli with pickles. I’d grill a Breast of Mutton. SCORE a bread: of mutton in diamonds, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then ffrew on a few bred crumbs and Aired parfley, put it in a Dutch oven to broil, bade it with frelh but- ter, pour in the difli good caper fauce, and ferve it up. Split Leg of Mutton and Onion Sauce. SPLIT the leg from the ffiank to the end, ffick a flcewer in to keep the nick open, baffe it with red wine till it is half roaffed, then take the wine out of the dripping-pan, and put to it one anchovy, fet it over the fire till the anchovy is diffolved, rub the yolk of a hard egg in a little cold 3•jo6 THE EXPERIENCED cold butter, mix it with the wine, and put it in your I'aucc-boat, put good onion fauce over the leg when it is roafted, and ferve it up. To force a Leg of Mutton. RAISE the fkin and take out the lean part of the mutton, chop it exceeding fine, with one anchovy, fhred a bundle of fweet herbs, grate a penny loaf, half a lemon, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your tafie, make them into a force- meat, with three eggs and a large glafs of red wine, fill up the Ikin with the forcemeat, but leave the bone and tliank in their place, and it will appear like a whole leg, lay it on an earthen dith with a pint of red wine under it, and fend it to the oven j it will take two hours and a half; when it comes out take off all the fat, ftrain the gravy over the mutton, lay round it hard yolks of eggs and pickled mufhrooms: garnifh with pickles, and ferve it up, 'To drefs Sheep’s Rumps and Kidneys. BOIL fix fheeps’ rumpa in veal gravy, then lard your kidneys with bacon, and let them be- fore the fire in a tin oven i when the rumps are tender, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, a little Chyan and grated nutmeg, fkim the fat pff the gravy, put k in a clean tolling pan, with three ounces of boiled rice, a fpoontuj of good cream, a little mulhroom powder or catchup, thicken it with flour and butter, and give it a gentle boil, fry your rumps alight brown ; when you difh them up, lay them round on your rice. OENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 107 fo that the fmall ends meet in the middle, and lay a kidney between every rump, garnilh with red cabbage or barberries, and ferve it up. It is a pretty lidc or corner dilh. T’o drefs a Leg of Mutton to eat like Venison. GET the larged and fatted leg of mutton you can get, cut out like a haunch of venifon; as foon. as it is killed, whild it is warm, it will eat the tenderer, take out the bloody vein, dick it in feveral places in the under fide with a fliarp- pointed knife, pour over it a bottle of red wine, turn it in the wine four or five times a day for five days, then dry it exceeding well with a clean cloth, hang it up in the air with the thick end uppermod for five days, dry it night and morn- ing to keep it from being damp, or growing niudy.; when you road it, cover it with paper, and pade as you do venifon j ferve it up with venifon fauce,—It vvill^^take four hours roading, yf Basque (?/'Mutton. TAKE the caul of a leg of veal, lay it in a copper didi the fize of a finaJl punch bowl, take the lean of a leg of mutton, that has been kept a week, chop it exceeding fmall, take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny loaf, the yolks of four eggs, two anchovies, half a pint of red wine, the rind of half a lemon grated, mix it like fauceage-meat, and lay it in your caul in the infideof your diili, clofe up the faul, and bake it in a quick oven; when it comes outio8 THE EXPERIENCED out lay your dilh upfide-down, and turn the whole out, pour over it brown gravy, and fend venifon fauce in a boat: garnifli with Oxford John. TAKE a Rale leg of mutton, cut it in as thin collops as you poffibly can, take out all the fat linews, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait, ftrew among them a little fhred parfley, thyme, and two or three fhalots, put a good lump of butter into a ftew-panj when it is hot put in"all your collops, keep ftirring them with a wooden fpoon till they are three parts done, then add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, thicken it a little with flour and butter, let them fimmer four or five minutes, and they will be quite enough, if you let them boil, or have them ready before you want them, they will grow hard : ferve them up hot, with fried - bread cut in dices, over and round them. To hotl a Leg of Lamb and Loin fried. CUT your leg from the loin, boil the leg three quarters of an hour, cut the loin in hand- fome Reaks, beat them with a cleaver, and fry. them a good brown, then Rew them a little in Rrpng gravy, put your leg on the diRi, and lay your Reaks round it, pour on your gravy, lay round lumps of Rewed fpinage, and crifped par- fiey on every Reak, fend it to the table with goofeberry fauce in a boat. It up w pickle.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. lof *To force a Quarter of Lamb. TAKE a hind quarter and cut off the fhank, raife the thick part of the flefh from the bone, with a knife, fluff the place with white force- meat, and fluff it under the kidney, half roafl: it, then put it in a toffing-pan, with a quart of mutton gravy, cover it clofeup, and let it flew gently: when it is enough take it up and lay it on your difh, fkim the fat off the gravy, and flrain it, then put in a glafs of Madeira wine, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, two of brown- ing, half a lemon, a little Chyan, half a pint of oyflers, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, pour your gravy hot on your lamb and ferve it up. To drefs a Lamb’s Head and Purtenance. SKIN the head and fplit it, take the black part out of the eyes, then wa(h and clean it exceeding well, lay it in warm water till it looks white, wafh and clean the purtenance, take off the gall, and lay them in water, boil it half an hour, then mince your heart, liver, and lights, very fmall, put the mincemeat in a toffing-pan with a quart of mutton gravy, a little catchup, pepper and fait, half a lemon, thicken it with flour and butter, a fpoonful of good cream, and jufl boil it up; when your head is boiled, rub it oyer with the yolk of an egg, ftrew over it bread crumbs, a little fhred parlley, pepper and fait, bafle it well with butter, and brown it before the fire,no THE EXPERIENCED fire, or with a falamander, put the purtenance on your difli^and lay the head over it: garnifh with lemon or pickle, and ferve it up. Lamb Stones. SKIN fix lamb flones, or what quantity you pleafe, dip them in batter, and fry them in hog’s-lard a nice brown, have ready a little veal gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, put in a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufh- room catchup, a flice of lemon, a little grated nutmeg, beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with two fpoonfulsof thick cream, put in your gravy, keep fhaking it over the fire till it looks white and thick, then put in the lamb Rones, and give them alhake^ when they are hot, difh them up, and lay round them boiled foremeat balls. *To roaji Pig m Imitation of Lamb. LET your pig be a month or five weeks old, divide it down the middle, take off the fhoulder, and leave the reff to the hind part, then take the fkin off, draw fprigs of parfley all over the out- fide, which muff be done by running a fkewer or larding pin, and flicking the flalk of the par- lley in it j fpit it and roafl it before a quick fire, dredge it and bafle it well with frefh butter, roafl it a fine brown, and fend it up with a froth on it; garnifh with green parfley, it will cat and ^ look like fat lamb,—It is eat with fallad.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. i I To barbecue a Pig. ■ DRESS a pig of ten weeks old as if it were • to be roafled, make a forcemeat of two ancho- ' vies, fix fage leaves, and the liver of the pig, j all chopped very fmall; then put them into a marble mortar, with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, four ounces of butter, half a tea fpoonful of Chyan pepper, and half a pint of red wine, beat them all together to a pafiie, put it in your pig’s belly and few it up, lay your pig down at a good diftance before a large brifk fire, finge it well, put in your dripping-pan three bottles of red wine, bafte it with the wine all the time it is ‘ roafiing, when it is half roafted, put under your pig two penny loaves, if you have not wine enough, put in more, when your pig is' near enough, take the loaves and fauce out of your dripping-pan, put to the fauce one anchovy chopped fmall, a bundle of fweet herbs, and half a leriion, boil it a few minutes, then draw your pig, put a fmall lemon or apple in the pig’s mouth, and a loaf on each fide, flrain your fauce and pour it on them boiling hot, lay bar- berries, and dices of lemon round it, and fend it up whole to the table.—It is a grand bottom didi. It will take four hours roafiing. To barbecue a Leg of Pork, LAY down your leg to a good fire, put into the dripping-pan two bottles of red wine, bafte your pork with it all the time it is roafiing, when it is enough, take up what is left in the pan, put • toII2 THE EXPERIENCED to it two anchovies, the yolks of three eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a lemon, a bunch of fweet herbs, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a fpoon- ful of catchup, and one of tarragon vinegar, or a little tarragon (bred fmall, boiP them a few minutes, then draw your pork, and cut the fkin down from the bottom of the Ihank in rows an inch broad, raife every other row and roll it to the fliankjftrain your fauce and pourit on boiling hot, lay oyfter patties all round the pork, and fprigs of green parfley. To Jluff a Chine of Pork. TAKE a chine that has been hung about a month, boil it half an hour, then take it up and make holes in it all over the lean part, one inch from another, Ruff them betwixt the joints with fhred parfley, rub it all over with the yolk of eggs, flrew over it bread crumbs, bafte it and fet it in a Dutch oven, when it is enough lay round it boiled brocoli, or flewed fpinage ; garnifh with parfley. To roof a Ham or a Gammon of Bacon. HALF boil your ham or gammon, then take off the flein, dredge it with oatmeal fifted very fine, bafle it with frefh butter, it will make a Jfironger froth than either flour or bread crumbs, then roafl: it j when it is enough difh it up and pour brown gravy on your difli: garnifh with green parfley and fend it to the table.ENi3LISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 115 *To force the Infde of a Surloin of Beef. SPIT your furloin, then cut off from the in- iide all the fkin ahd fat together, and then tkko off all the flelh to the bones, chop the meat very fine with a little beaten tnace, two or three flialots, one anchovy, half a pint of red wine, a little pepper and fait, and put it on the bones again, lay your fat and fkin on again, and flcevver it clofe and paper it well, when roafted take off tlie fat, and difli up the furloin, pour over it a fauce made of a little red wine, a flialot, one • anchovy, two or three flices of horfe-radifli, and ferve it up* •f < I. fo drefs the Infde 'of a cold Surloin if Beef. CUT out all the infide (free from fat) of the furloin in pieces as thick as your finger and about two inches long, dp^dge it with a little flour, and fry it in nice butter of a light brown, then drain it, and tofs it up in rich gravy that has been well feafoned, with pepper, fait, fhalot, and an an- , chovy; juft before you fend it up, add twofpoon- * fuls of vinegar taken from pickled capers ; gar- nifh \yith fried oyfters, or what you pleafe. Bouillie Beef. TAKE the thick end of a brifket of beef, put.it into a kettle of water quite covered over, let it boil faft for two hours, then keep ftewing it clofe by the fire for fix hours more, and as the water waftes fill up the kettle, put in with the beef fomc turnips cut in little balls, carrots, and ^ fomeII4 the EXPERIENCEtj? • fome clary cut in pieces: an hour before it done take out as much broth as will fill your, foup difli, and boil in it for that hour turnips and carrots cut out in balls or in little fquare pieces, with fome celery, fait and pepper tc your tafte, ferve it up in two difhes, the beef by itfelf, and the foup by itfelf; you may put pieces of fried bread, if you like it, in your foup, boil in a few knots of greens, and if you think your foup will not be rich enough, you may add a pound or two of fried mutton chops to your broth when you take it from the beef, and let it flew for that hour in the broth, but be fure to take out the mutton wherv you fend it to the table : the foup mud be very clear. Jlew a Rump of Beef. HALF road your beef, then put it in a large faucepan or caldron, with two quarts of water, and one of red wine, two or three blades of mace, a fhalot, one fpoonful of lemon pickle, two of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, Chyau pepper and fait to your tade, let it dew over a gentle fire, clofe covered for two hours, then take up your beef, and lay it on a deep difli, Ikim off the fat, and drain the gravy, and put in one ounce of morels, and half a pint of mu/hrooms,. thicken your,gravy and pour it over;^our beef, lay round it forcemeat balls : garnifh with horfe- radifh, and ferve it up.V ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 1T5 'To Jlew ^^Rump i^Beef a fecond Way. STUFF your beef with three cloves of gaf- iick in different parts, make a hole with afl^ewer, and get in the garlick as far as about one half Vour finger can reachj fluff it likewifein feveral places with forcemeat, in the making of which, put fome fat bacon cut in very fmali flices, then put your beef into the pot the right fide under, cut about a pound of fuet over it, five or fix ounces of bacon diced, and as much water as will cover it, then fet the pot over the fire, let it boil for three quarters of an hour, then cover the pot quite clofe, and let it flew for four hours over a moderate fire, after which take it up, and pour every drop of liquor from it, and put a quart of claret over it, and fet it on a very flow fire while you are preparing the fauce, which is to be either of turnips, or carrots, or pallets, cut as for a ragoo; put in as much broth as you think fufficient, with fome of the clear gravy free from fat that you poured off the beef, in a flew- pan; boil them a little with morels, truffles, and a glafs of claret, and a little butter rolled in flour, which mufl be toffed up together, and difh it up very hot. yfFRICANDO £/* BeEF^ CUT a' few flices of beef five or fix inches long, and half an inch thick, lard it with bacon, dredge it well with flour, and fet it before a brifk fire to brown, then put it in a tofling pan, with a quart of gravy, a few morels and truffles, ^ 2 halfir6 THE EXPERIENCED half a lemon, and flew them half an hour, then add one fpoonful of catch up, the fame of brown- ing, and a little Chyan, thicken your fituce and pour it over your fricando, lay round them force- meat balls, and the yolks of hard eggs. ' . Ti? a-la~mode Beef. TAKE the bone out of a rump of beef, lard the top with bacon, then make a forcemeat of four ou’nces of marrow, two heads of garliek, the crumbs of a penny loaf, a few fweet herbs chopped fmall, nutmeg, pepper and fait to your tafte, and the yolks of four eggs well beat, mix it up, and fluff your beef where the bone came out, and in feveral places in the lean part, Ihewer it round and bind it about with a fillet, put it in a pot with a pint of red wine, and tie it down with ftrqng paper, bake it in the oven for three hours ; when it comes out, if you want to eat it hot, flcim the fat off the gravy, and add half an ounce of morels, a fpoonful of pickled mufh- rooms, thicken it with flour and butter, difli up your beef and pour on the gravy, lay round it forcemeat balls, and fend it up. ^0 make a Porcupine of the Flat Ribs cf Beef. BONE the flat ribs, and beat it half an hour with a pafle pin, then rub it over with the yolks of eggs, ftrew over it bread crumbs, parfley, leeks, fweet marjorum, lemon peel fhred fine, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, roll it up very clofe, and bind khard, lard it acrofs with bacon, then a rowENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 117 a row of cold boiled tongue, a third row of pickled cucumbers, a fourth row of lemon peel, do it all over in rows as above till it is larded all round, it will look like red, green, white, and yellow dices, then fplit it or put it in a deep pot with a pint of water, lay over the caul of veal to keep it from fcorching, tie it down with flrong paper, and fend it to the oven, when it comes out ikim off the fat, and ftrain your gravy into a faucepan, add to it two fpoonfuls of red wine, the fame of browning, one of mufhroom catch- up, halfa lemon, thicken it with a lump of but- ter rolled in flour, difhup the meat, and pour the gravy on the difh, lay round forcemeat balls : garnifh with horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. To make Brisket of Beef a-Ia-royal. t BONE a brifket of beef, and make holes in it with a knife, about an inch one from another, fill one hole with fat bacon, a fecond with,chop- ped parfley, and a. third with chopped oyfters, feafoned with nutmeg, pepper, andJalt, till you have done the brifket over, then pour a pint of red wine boiling hot upon the beef, dredge it well with flour, fend it to the oven, and bake it three hours or better | when it comes out of the oven take off the fat^ and flrain the gravy over your beef: garnifh with pickles, and ferve it up. * Beef Olives. CUT flices off a 'rump of beef about fix inches long and half an inch thick, beat them I 3 withji8 THE EXPERIENCED ’ with a pafte pin, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg, a little pepper, fait, and beaten mace, the crumbs of half a penny loaf, two ounces of marrow fliced fine, a handful of parfiey chopped fmall, and the out-rind of half a lemon grated, fiirew them all over your fteaks, and roll them up, Ikewer them quite clofe, and fet them before the fire to brown, then put them into a tofling pan with a pint of gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour : lay round forcemeat balls, mulh-* rooms, or the yolks of hard eggs. iTo make Mock Hare of a Beast’s Heart. WASH a large beaft’s heart clean, and cut off the deaf ears, and fluff it with fome force- meat, as you do a hare, lay a caul of veal, or paper over the top, to keep in the fluffing, roafl it either in a cradle fpit or hanging one, it will take an hour and a half before a good fire, bafle it with red wine j when roafled take the Wine out of the dripping-pan, and fkim off the fat, and add a glafs more of wine, when it is hot put in fome lumps of red currant jelly, and pour it in the difli, ferve it up, and fend in red cur=» rant jelly cut in flices on a faucer. ■ Beef Heart larded^ !■ % TAKE a good beafl’s heart, fluff it as before, and lard it all over with little bits of bacon, dufl It^:NGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 119 it with flour, and cover it with paper, to keep it from being too dry, and fend it to the oven ; when baked put the heart on your difli, take off the fat and flrain the gravy tlxrough a hair fieve, put it in a faucepan with one fpoon^til of red wune, the fame of browning, and one of lemon pickle, half an ounce of morels, one anchovy cut fmall, a little beaten mace, thicken it with flour and butter, pour it hot on your heart, and ferve it up : garnifh with barberries, ToJiew Ox Palates. WASH four ox palates in feveral waters, and then lay them in warm water for half an hour, then wafh them put and put them in a pot, and tie them down with ftrong paper, and fend them ^o the oven with as much water as will cover ]them, or laoil them tih tender, then Ikin them, and cut them in pieces, half an inch broad and three inches long, and put them in a tolling pan with a pint of veal gravy, one fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame ot catchup and brown- ing, one onion lluck with cloves, and a flice of lemon, flew them half an hour, then take out the onion and lemon, thicken your fauce, and put them in a dilh i have ready boiled artichoke bottoms, cut them in' quarters, and lay them over your palates, with forcemeat balls and mo- rels' : garnifli with lemon, and ferve them up, Toj:ricando Ox Palates. ' WldEN you have waflied and cleaned your palates as before, cut them in fquare pieces, lard ? 4 themJ2Q THE EXPERIENCED them with little bits of bacon, fry them In hog’s lard, a pretty brown, and put them in a freve to drain the fat from them, then take bet- ter than half a pint of beef gravy, one fpoonful of red wiate, half as much of browning, a lit- tle lemon pickle, one anchovy, a (halot, and a bit of horfe radiflij give them a boil, an'd ftrain your gravy, then put in your palates, and ftew: them half an hour, make your fauce pretty thick, di£h them up, and lay round them flewed fpi- nage prelfed and cut like fippets, and ferve them up. 'To fricaJJee Ox Palates. CLEAN your palates very well as before, put them in a ftew-pot, and cover them with water, fet them in the oven for three or four hours ^ when they come from the oven ftrip olf the fkins, and cut them in fquare pieces, feafon them with mace, nutmeg, Chyan, and fait, mix a fpoonful of flour with the yolks of two eggs, dip in your palates, and fry them a light brovvn, then put them in a fieve to drain ^ have ready half a pint of veal gravy, with a little caper liquor, a fpoonful of browning, and afew mufli- rooms, thicken it well with flour and butter, pour it hot on your difh, and lay in your pa4 dates ; garnifh with fried parfley and barberries. ‘ToJtcw a Turkey with Celery Sau-ce. TAKE a large turkey, and make a good white forcemeat of veal, and fluff the craw of the turkey, fkewer it as for boiling, then bo^ ... .. . ..........ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 121 jt in foft water till it is almoft enough, and then take up your turkey, and put it in a pot with foine of the water it was boiled in, to keep it hot, put feven or eight heads of celery, that arc walhed and cleaned very vWell, into the water that the turkey was boiled in, till they are ten-r der, then take them up, and put in your turkey with the breafl down, and Hew it a quarter of an hour, then take it up, and thicken your fauce with half a pound of butter and flour to make it pretty thick, and a quarter of a pint of rich cream, then put in your celery; pour the fauce and celery hot upon the turkey’s breafl, and ferve it^up.-^ It is a proper difh for dinner or fupper. I’d fiew a Turkey brown. WHEN you have drawn the craw out of your turkey, cut it up the back, and take out the entrails, that the turkey may appear whole, and take all the hones out of the body very carefully, the rump, legs, and wings are to be left whole, then take the crumb of a penny loaf, and chop half a hundred of oyflers very fmall, with half a pound of beef marrow,a little lemon peel cut fine, and pepper and fait, mix them well up together with the yolks of four eggs, and fluff your tur- key with it» few it up and lard it down each fide with bacon, half rqafl it, then put it into a tof- fing pan with two quarts of veal gravy, and cover it clofe up; v/hen it has flewed one hour, add a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, half an anchovy, a flice or two of lemon, a little Chyan pepper, and a bunch of fweet herbs; cover them clofe 1) 12a THE EXPERIENCED clofe up again, and flew it half an hour longer, then take it up and fkim the fat off the gravy^ and ftrain it, thicken it with flour and butter, let it boil a few minutes, and pour it hot upon your turkey; lay round it oyfter patties, and ferve it up. ‘ A Turkey a-la-daub, to be fent up hot, CUT the turkey down the back juft enough to bone it, without fpoiling the look of it, then ftuft' it with a nice forcemeat made of oyfters chopped fine, crumbs of bread, pepper, fait, llialots, a very little thyme, parfley and butter, fill it as full as you like, and few it up. with a thread, tie it up in a clean cloth and boil it very white, but not too much. You may ferve it up with oyfter fauce made good, or take the bones with a piece of veal, mutton, and bacon, and make a rich gravy feafoned with pepper, fait, (halots, and a little bit of mace, ftrain ii off through a fieve, and ftew your turkey in it (after it is half boiled) juft half an hour, difli it up in the gravy after it is well fkimmed, ftrained, and thickened with a few mufl:irooms ‘ ftewed white, or ftewed pallets, forcemeat balls, fried oyfters, orj fweet-breads, and pieces of le- mon. Difh it up with the breaft upwards ; if you fend it up garniftied with pallets, take care to have them ftewed tender firft; before you add them to the turkey, you may put a few morels and truffles in your fauce if you like it, but take care to wafh them clean. TurkeyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 123 Turkey a-la-daub, to be fent up cold. BONE the turkey and feafon it with pepper and fait, then fpread over it fome dices'ot ham, upon that fome forcemeat, upon that a fowl, boned and feafoned as above, then more ham and forcemeat, then few it up with thread; cover the bottom of the fhew-pan with veal and ham, then lay in the turkey the bread down,chop all the bones to pieces, and put them oi;i the tur- key, cover the pan and fet it on the fire five minutes, then put in as much clear broth as will cover it, let it boil two hours, when it is more than half done, put in one ounce of ifinglafs and a bundle of herbs. When it is done enough take out the turkey, and drain the jelly through a hair fieve, ikim off all the fat, and when it is cold lay the turkey upon it the bread down, and cover it with the red of the jelly. Let it dand in fome cold place; when you ferve it up, turn it on the difh it is to be ferved in : if you pleafe you may fpread butter over the turkey's bread, and put fome green parlley or flowers, or what you pleafe, and in what form you like. Fowls a-la-bralze. ■ SKEWER your fowl as for boiling, wnth the legs in the body, then lay over it a layer of fat bacon, cut in pretty thin fiices, then wrap it round in beet leaves, then in a caul of veal, and put it into a large faucepan with three pints of water, a glafs of Madeira wine, a bunch of fwcet herbsj two gr* three,blades of mace, and " ' ' half'y 124 THE EXPERIENCED half a lemon, flew it till quite tender, take it up and Ikim oR the fat, make yOur gravy pretty tliick with flour and butter, anci {train it through 2 hair fieve, and put to it a pint of oyfters, a tea-cup full of thick cream, keep (haking-your toffing pan over the fire, and when it has fim- mered a little, ferve up your fowl with the bacon, beet leaves, and caul on, and pour your fauce hot upon it: garnifli witfl barberries, or red'beet root. , To force a Fowl. TAKE a lafge fowl, pick it clean and cut ft down the back, take out the entrails and take the fkin off whole, cut the flefli from the bones and 'chop it with half a pint of oyfters, one 'ounce of beef marrow, a little pepper and fait, mix it up with cream, then lay the meat on the bones and draw the fkin over it and few up the back, then cut large thin flices of bacon, and lay them over the breaft of your fowl, tie the bacon on with a packthread in diamonds, it will take one hour roafting by a moderate fire, make a good brown gravy fauce, pour it upon your ddh, take the bacon off and lay in your fowl, and ferve it up : garnifh with pickles, mufla- rooms, or oyfters,— It is proper for a fide difh for dinner, or tep for fupper. To Pallets and Chickens. TO every pallet or chicken take an anchoyy, a little parfleyand fhalot, with the liver of the chickens, fhred all thefe together very fine, and faitENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 125 fait to your tafte, and fluff the birds with it, turn them' up fliort as for boiling, tie them in cloths, boil the pallets an hour at lead, the chickens not above fifteen or twenty minutes in milk and water with a little fait in it; make the fauce with a little white gravy and white wine^ and with it flew a good many oyflers and flia- lots, beat it up thick with a lump of butter, (you majr, if you pleafe, leave out the wine, and mix a little cream in the fauce inilead of it) your gravy mufl be made of veal; when the chickens are boiled, and the pallets are flewed tender, tofs them up together in the gravy and oyflers, fend them hot to the table, the chickens in the middle, and the pallets round them, with a few white balls made of veal j you may add fweet-breads. This is a very good way to flew a turkey. The water the pallets were boiled in will be extremely good to make gravy, adding to it a good piece of veal, mutton, and bacon. To fricajfee Chickens. »SKIN them and cut them in fmall pieces, wafh them in warm water, and then dry them very clean with a cloth, feafon them with pepper and fait, and then put them into a flew-pan with a little fair W'ater, and a good piece of butter, a little lemon pickle, or half a lemon, a glafs of white wine, one anchovy, a little mace and nut- meg, an onion fluck with cloves, a bunch of le- mon thyme and fweet marjoram, let them flew together till your chickens are tender, and thea 3126 " THE EXPERIENCED lay them on your difh, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, ftrain it, then beat the yolks of three eggs a little, and mix them with a large tea-cup full of rich cream, and put it in your gravy, and flaake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, and pour it over your chickens. ‘To force Chickens. ROAST your chickens better than half, take off the fldn,then the meat, and chop it fmall with Ihred parfley and crurtabs of bread, pepper and fait, and a little good cream, then put in the meat and clofe the fkin, brown it with a fala- mander, and ferve it up with white fauce. • To make' artificial Chickens or Pigeons. MAKE a rich forcemeat with veal, lamb, or chickens, feafoned with pepper, fait, parfley, a fhalot, a piece of fat bacon, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; work it up in the fhape of pigeons or chickens, putting the foot of the bird you intend it for in the middle, fo as juft to appear at the bottom, roll the forcemeat very w^ell in the yolk of an egg, then in the crumbs of bread, fend them to the oven, and bake it a light brown, do not let them touch each other, put them on tin plates well buttered, as you fend them to the oven : you may fend them to the table dry, or gravy in the difh, juft as you like. To marinate a Goose. CUT your goofe up the back bone, then take out all the bones, and ftuff it with forcemeat, andV 11J ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEFER. and few up the back again, fry the goofeagood brown, then put it into a deep ftew-pan with two quarts of good gravy and cover it clofel, and ftew it two hours, then take it out and fkitn oiF the fat, add a large fpoonful of lemon pickle, one of browning, and one of red wine, one anchovy fhred fine, beaten mace, pepper and fait to your palate, thicken it with fiour and butter, boil it a little, diih up your goofe, and drain your gravy over it.—N. B. Make your duffing thus, take ten or twelve fage leaves, two large onion's, two or three large diarp apples, fhred t|iem very fine, mix them with the crumbs of a penny loaf, four ounces of beef marrow, one glafs of red wine, half a nutmeg grated, pepper, fait, and a little lemon peel fhred fmall, make a light duffing with the yolks of four eggs, obferve to make it one hour before you want it. ^0 Jiew Ducks. TAKE three young ducks, lard them do^vii each fide the bread, dud them with flour and fet them before the fire to brown, then put them in a dew-pan with a quart of water, a pint of red wine, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, one anchovy, half a lemon, a clove of garlick, a bundle of fweet herbs, Chyan pepper to your tade, let them dew flowly for half an hour or till they are tender, lay them on a difh and keep them hot, dcim off the fat, drain your gravy through a hair fieve, add to it a few morels and truffles, boil it quick till reduced to little more than half a pint, pour it over your < 4 ducksy I2S THE EXPERIEN’CED ducks and ferve it up. It is proper for a lidd difli for dinner, or bottom for fupper^ Jiew Ducks with Green Peas; I’JA.LF road: your ducks^ then put them into a ilew-pan with a pint of good gravy, alittle mint, - and three or four fage leaves chopped fmall, cover them dole and hew them half an hour, boil a , pint of green peas as for eating, and put them in - after you have thickened the gravy; difh up your » ' ducks and pour the gravy and peas over them^ Ducks a-la-brarze* i DRESS and finge your ducks, lard then! | quite through with bacon rolled in hired par- hey, thyme, onions, beaten mace, cloves, pepper and fait, put in the bottom of a hew-pari a few dices of fat bacon, the fame of ham or gammon j of bacon, two or three dices of veal or beef, lay 5'our ducks in with the bread down, and cover the ducks with dices the fame as put under them, cut in a carrot or two, a turnip, one oniony a head of celery, a blade of mace, four or five cloves, a little whole pepper, cover them clofe down, and let them fimmer a little over a gentle flove till the bread is a light brown, then put in fome broth or water, cover them as clofe down again as you can, dew them gently betwixt two and three hours till enough, then take pardey, onioR, or dialot, two anchovies, a few gherkins or capers, chop them all very fine, put them in a dew-pan with partof theliquor from theducks,a little browning,and thejuiceof half alemon,boil itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 129 It up, and cut the ends of the bacon even with the bread: of your ducks, lay them on your dilli, pour the fauce hot upon them, and ferve them up; lome put garlick inflead of onions. Ducks a-la~mode, SLIT two ducks down the back, and bone them carefully, make a forcemeat of the crumbs of a penny loaf, four ounces of fat bacon fcraped, a little parfley, thyme, lemon peel, two (halots, or onions fhred very fine, with pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your tade, and two eggs, duff your ducks with it and few them up, lard them down each fide of the bread with bacon, dredge them ’’well with flour, and put them in a Dutch oven to brown, then put them into a dev/-pan with three pints of gravy, a glafs of red wine, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of walnut and mufliroom catchup, one of browning, and one anchovy, with Chyan pepper to your fade, dew them gently over a flow fire for an hour, when enough, thicken your gravy, and put in a few truffles and morels, drain your gravy and pour it upon them ^You may a-la-mode a goofe the fame way. ^ Pi GEONs compote. TAKE fix young pigeons and fkewer them as you do for boiling, put forcemeat into the craws, lard them down the bread, and fry them brown, then put them into a drong brown gravy, and let them dew three quarters of an hour, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flou,r, K " wheny 130 THE EXPERIENCED when you difh them up, lay forcemeat balls round them, and flrain the gravy over them.—« The forcemeat muft be made thus: grate the' crumbs of half a penny loaf, and fcrape a quar- ter of a pound of fat bacon, inftead of fuet, chop a little parfley, thyme, two fhalots or an onion, grate a little nutmeg, lemon peel, fome pepper and fait, rhix them all up with eggs. It is proper for a top difli for a fecond courfe, or a lide dilh for the firft. Pi GEONS in a hole, PICK, draw, and wafh four young pigeons, Rick their legs in their belly as you do boiled pigeons feafon them with pepper, fait, and beaten mace, put into the belly of every pigeon a lump of butter the fize of a walnut, lay yoiir pigeons in a pye dilh, pour over then! a battef- made of three eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, and half a pint of good milk, bake it in a moderate oven, and ferve them to table in the fame difh. Pigeons tranfmogrified. PICK and clean fix fmall young pigeons, but do not cut off their heads, cut off their pi- nions, and boil them ten minutes in water, then cut off the ends of fix large cucumbers and fcrape out the feeds, put in your pigeons, but let the heads be cut at the ends of the cucumbers, and flick a bunch of barberries in their bills, and then put them in a toffing pan with a pint of veal gravy, a little anchovy, a glafs of reff wine, a fpoonfui of browning, a little dice of lemon, Chyaa VENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 131 Chyan and fait to you tafle, flew them feven minutes, take them out, thicken your gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, boil it up and flrain it over your pigeons, and ferve them up. ‘To broil Pigeons. TAKE young pigeons, pick and draw them, fplit them down the back, and feafon them with pepper and fait, lay them on the gridiron with the bread upward, then turn them, but be care- ful you do not burn the fkin, rub them over with butter, and keep turning them till they are enough, difli them up, and lay round them crifped parfley, and pour over them melted but- ter, or gravy which you pleafe, and fend them up. To boil PI GEONs i/2 Rice. ' WEIEN you have picked and drawn your pi- geons, turn the legs under the wings, and cut off the pinions, then lay over every pigeon thin dices of bacon, and a large beet leaf, wrap them in clean cloths feparately, and boil them till enough, have ready four ounces of rice boiled foft, and put into a fieve to drain, put the rice into a little good veal gravy thickened with flour and butter, boil your rice a little in the gravy, and add two fpoonfuls of good cream, take your pigeons out of the cloths and leave on the bacon and beet leaves, pour the rice over them and ferve them up.132 THE EXPERIENCED Tofricando Pigeons. I PICK, draw, and wafli your pigeons very clean, ftufF the craws, and lard them down the fides of the breaft, fry them in butter a fine brown, and then put them into a tofling-pan with a quart of gravy, (few them till they are tender, then take off the fat, and put in a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large fpoonful of browning, the fame of walnut catchup, a little Chyan and fait, thi;.ken your gravy and add half an ounce of morels, and fouryolks of hard eggs; lay the pigeons in your difii, and put the morels and eggs round them, and ftrain your fauce over them : garnifh with barberries and lemon peel, and ferve it up. Jugged Pigeons. TAKE fix pigeons, pluck and draw them, wafh them clean and dry them with a cloth, feafon them with beaten mace, white pepper, and fait, put them in a jug, and put half a pound of butter upon them. Hop up your jug clofe with a cloth that no fieaiii can get out, fet it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it boil one hour and a half, then take out your pigeons, and put the gravy that is come from the pigeons into a pan, and put to it one fpoonful of wine, one of catchup, a dice of lemon, half an an- chovy choj'ped fmaJl, and a bundle of fweet herbs, boil it a little, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, lay your pigeons on the diih, and (train the gravy on them ; garnifh with parjQeyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 13? parfley and red cabbage, and ferve them up, you may lay muOirooms or forcemeat balls.—It is a pretty fide or corner difli. Boiled Pigeons and Bacon. TAKE fix young pigeons, walh them clean as before, turn their legs under their wings, boil them in milk and water by themfelv^es twenty minutes, have ready boiled a fquare piece of bacon, takeoff the flcin and brown it, put the bacon in the middle of your difli, and lay the pigeons round it, and lumps of flewed fpinage, pour plain melted butter over them, and fend parfley and butter in a boat. Pigeons fricajfee, CUT your pigeons as you would do chick- ens for fricaffee, fry them a light brown, then put them into fome good mutton gravy, and fl:ew them near half an hour, and then put in half an ounce of ipofels, a fpoonful of browning, and a nice 'of lemon, take up your pigeons, and thicken your gravy, ftrain it over your pigeons, and lay round them forcemeat balls, and garnifli , with pickles. Partridge in fanes. HALF roaft two partridges, and take the flefli from them, and mix it with the crumbs of a penny loaf fteeped in rich gravy, fix ounces of beef marrow, or half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, ten morels boiled foft and cut fmall, two artichoke bottoms boiled and fhred fmall, K 3 tht134 the experienced the yolks of three eggs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, and fhred lemon peel to your palate, work them together, and bake them in moulds the fliape of an egg, and ferve them up cold or in jelly : gar- nifli with curled parfley. • Partridges. TRUSS your partridges as for roafting, ftuff the craws, and lard them down each lide of the breaft, then roll a lump of butter in pepper, fait, and beaten mace, and put it into the bellies, few up the vents, dredge them well and fry them a light brown, then put them into a ftew-pan with a quart of good gravy, a fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame of mulhroom catchup, a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, and half the quantity of mulliroom powder, one anchovy, half a le- mon, a fprig of fweet marjoram, cover the pan clofe, and flew them half an hour, then take them out and thicken the gravy, boil it a little and pour it over the partridges, and lay round them artichoke bottoms boiled and cut in quar- ters, and the yolks of four hard eggs, if agree- able. *ToJiew Partridges a fecond Way. Ti\KE three partridges when drell'ed, linge them, blanch and beat three ounces of almonds, and grate the fame quantity of fine white bread, chop three anchovies, mix them with fix ounces of butter, fluff the partridges, and few them up at both ends, trufs them, and wrap flices of fat bacon round them, half roafl them, then take oneENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 135 o.ne and pull the meat off the breafl, and beat it in a marble mortar, with the forcemeat it was Ruffed with, have ready a ftrong gravy made of ham and veal*, ftrain it into a ftew-pan, then take the bacon off the other two, wipe them clean and put them into the gravy with a good deal of flialots, let them ffew till tender, then take them out, and boil the gravy till it is almoft as thick as bread fauce, then add to it a glafs of fweet oil, the fame of Champagne, and the juice of a China orange, putyour partridges in, and make them hot: garnifh with dices of bacon and lemon. To jiew a Hare, WHEN you diave paunched and cafed your hare, cut her as for eating, put her into a large faucc-pan with three pints of beefgravy, a pint of red wine, a large onion Ruck with cloves, a bundle of winter favory, a dice of horfe radidi, two blades of beaten mace, one anchovy, a fpoonful of walnut or mum catchup, one of browning, half a lemon, Chyan and fait to your tade, put on a clofe cover, and fet‘it over a gentle fire, and dew it for two hours, then take it up into a foup didi, and thicken your gravy with a lump of blitter rolled in dour, boil it a little, and drain it over your hare : garnifh with lemon peel cut like draws, and ferve it up. To jug a Hare. CUT the hare as for eating, feafon it with pepper, fait, and beaten mace, put it into a jug K 4 of136 THE EXPERIENCED or pitcher, with a dofe top, put to it a bundle of fweet herbs, and fetit in a kettle of boiling water, let it ftand till it is tender, then take it up and pour the gravy into a toffing-pan, with a glafs of red wine, one anchovy, a large onion Ifuck with cloves, a little beaten mace, and Chyan pepper to your tafte, boil it a little and thicken it : dilh up your hare and ftrain the gravy over it, then fend it up. To jlorendine a Hare. TAKE a grown hare, and let her hang up four or five days, then cafe her, and leave on the ears, and take out all the bones except the head which mufi: be left on whole, lay your hare flat on the table, and lay over the infide a forcemeat, and then roll it up to the head, fleewer it with the head and ears leaning back, tie it with pack- thread as you would a collar of veal, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it an hour and a half in a fauce- pan. With a cover on it, with two quarts of water j when your liquor is reduced to one quart put in a pint of red wine, a fpoonful of lemon pickle, and one of catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and ftew it till it is reduced to a pint, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, lay round your hare a few morels, and four flices of forcemeat, boiled in a caul of a leg of veal ; when you difli it up, draw the jaw-bones, and ftick them in the eyes for horns, let the ears lie back on the roll; and ftick a fprig of myrtle in the mouth, ftrain over yourfauce, and lerve it up: garnifh with barberries and panley. —Forcemeat for theENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. I37 Jiare :—take the crumb of a penny loaf, the liver Hired fine, half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, a glafs of red wine, one anchovy, two eggs, a little winter favory, fweet marjoram, lemon thyme, pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your tafte. I'd hodge-podge a Hare. CUT the hare in pieces as you do for Hew- ing, and put it into the pitcher, with two or three onions, fome fait and a little pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs and a piece of butter: flop the pitcher very clofe, that no fleam may get out, fet it in a kettle full of bailing water, keep the kettle filled up as the water waftes, let it Hew four or five hoursat lead. You may when you firfl put in the hare into the kettle put in lettuce, cucumbers, celery, and turnips if you like it better. T’o Jlore?idlne Rabbits. TAKE three young rabbits, llcin them, but leave on the ears, walh and dry them with <1 cloth, take out the bones carefully, leaving the head whole, then lay them flat, make a force- meat of a quarter of a pound of bacon fcraped^ it anfwers better than fuet, it makes the rabbits eat tenderer and whiter; add to the bacon the crumbs of a penny loaf, a little lemon thyme, or lemon peel fhred fine, parfley chopped fmall, nutmeg,Chyan,and fait to your palate; mix them up together with an egg, and fpread it over the rabbits, roll them up to the head, fkevver them .^raight, and clofe the ends to prevent the force- meat*THE EXPERIENCED meat from coming out, fkewer the ears back, and tie them in feparate cloths, and boil them lialf an hour; when you difli them up take out the jaw-bones, and Rick them in the eyes for ears, put round them forcemeat balls and mufh- rooms, have ready a white fauce made of veal gravy, a little anchovy, the juice of half a le- mon, or a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, ftrain it, take a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, fo as to make the fauce pretty thick, keep flirring it whilR the flour is dilTolving, beat the yolk of an egg, put to it fome thick cream, nutmeg, and fait, mix it with the gravy, and let it flmmer a little over the fire, but not boil, for it will curdle the cream, pour it over the rab- bits, and ferve it up. Rabbits furprifed. TAKE young rabbits, ikewer them, and put the fame pudding as for the roafted rabbits,when they are roafted, draw out the jaw-bones and flick them in the eyes to appear like horns, then take off all the meat from the back clean from the bones, but leave them whole, chop the meat exceeding fine with a little fhred parfley, lemon peel, one ounce of beef marrow, a fpoonful of good cream, and a little fait, beat the yolks of * two hard eggs, and a piece of butter the fize of a walnut, in a marble mortar, very fine, then mix all together, and put it in a tofling-pan, when it has flewed five minutes, lay it on the rabbit when you take the meat off, and put it ^ clofe down with .your hand, to appear like a wholeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 139 whole rabbit, then heat a falamander, and brown it all over, pour a good brown gravy made as thick as cream in the dilli, yftick a bunch of myrtle in their mouths, and ferve them up with their livers broiled and frothed. "To fricajfee Rabbits brow7t, CUT your rabbits as for eating, fry them in butter a light brown, put them into a tofling- pan, with a pint of water, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large fpoonful of mudaroom catchup, the fame of browning, one anchovy, a flice of lemon, Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte, ftew them over a How f re till they are enough, thicken your gravy, and ftrain it, difli up your rabbits, and pour the gravy over. To fricajfee Rabbits white, CUT your rabbits as before, and put them into a toffing-pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, one anchovy, 9. flice of lemon, a little beaten mace, Chyan pep- per and fait, flew them over a flow fire, when they are enough, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, flrain it, then add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a large tea-cupful of thick cream, and a little nutmeg grated in it, do not let it boil, and ferve it up. To make a nice Whet before Dinner. CUT lome flices of bread half an inch thick, fry them in butter, but not too hard, then fplit fome140 THE EXPERIENCED fome anchovies, take out the bones, and lay half an anchovy on each piece of bread, have ready fome Chcdiire cheefe grated, and fome chopped parfley mixed together,lay it prettythick over the bread and anchovy, bade it with butter, and brown it with afalamander: it muft be done on the difh in which you fend it to table. A Jine Haricoy by way of Soup. GET a large neck of mutton, cut it in two parts, put the fcrag part into a ftew-pan with four large turnips and four carrots in a gallon of water, let it boil gently over a flow fire till all the goodnefs is out of the meat, but not boiled to pieces, then bruife the turnips and two of the carrots fine into the foup, by way of thickening it, cut and fry fix onions in nice butter, and put them in, then cut the other part of the mutton in very good chops not too large, fry them in butter, and put them to the foup, and let it flew very flow till the chops are very ten- der, cut the other two carrots that were boiled into any fliape, and put them in juft before you take it off the fire, and feafon it to your tafte with pepper and fait, and ferve it up very hot in a foup diflh. A Harico. o/'Mutton or Lamb. CUT a neck or loin of mutton or lamb in nice fleaks and fry them a light brown, have ready fome good gravy made ot the Icrag of the mutton, and fome veal with a piece of lean bacon and a few capers, feafon to your tafte 6 withENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 141 with pepper, fait, thyme, and onions, which mufl be {trained off and added to the fteaks, juft one hour before you fend them to the table; take care to do it on a flow fire, difh them up handfomely with turnips and carrots cut in dice, with a good deal of gravy thickened with a piece of butter rolled in a very little flour; if they are not tender they will not be good. Send them up very hot. 31? Harico of Mutton a fecond Way. TAKE a neck of mutton and cut it into chops, flour them, and put them into a ffew-- pan, fet them over the fire, and keep them turning till brown, then take them out and put a little more into the fame pan, and keep it ftir- ring till brown over the fire, with a bunch of fweet herbs, a bay leaf, an onion, and what other fpice you pleafe; boil them well together, and then ffrain the broth through a fieve into an earthen pan by itfelf, and fkim the fat off, which done, is a good gravy, then add turnips and'earrots, with two fmall onions, a little celery, then place your mutton in a llew-pan with the celery and other roots, then put the gravy to them, and as much water as will cover them : keep it over a gentle fire till ready to ferve up. A hodge-podge of Mutton. CUT a neck or loin of mutton into fleaks, take off all the fat, then put the (leaks into a pitcher, with lettuce, turnips^ carrots, two cu- cumbers124 the experienced cucumbers cut in quarters, four or five onions, and pepper and fait; you mufi: not put any water to it, and flop the pitcher very clofe, then fet it in a pan of boiling water, let it boil four hours, keep the pan fupplied with frefh boiling Water as it waftes. To drefs Cucumbers with Eggs. TAKE fix large young cucumbers, pare, quarter, and cut them into fquares, about the fize of a dice, put them into boiling water, let them boil up, and take them out of the water, and put them into a ftew pan, with an onion Ruck with cloves, a good llice of ham, a quar- tern of butter, and a little fait, fet it over the fire a quarter of an hour, keep it clofe covered, feum it well, and (hake it often, as it is apt to burn; then dredgein a little flour over them, and put in as much veal gravy as will jufl: cover the cucumbers, and ftir it well together and keep a gentle fire under it till no feum will rife; then take out the ham and onion, and put in the yolks of two eggs beat up with a tea-cupfiil of good cream, fl;ir it well for a minute, then take it off the fire, and jufl: before you put it in the difli fqueeze in a little lemon juice : have ready five or fix poached eggs to lay on the top. 7b Jlew Peas. TAKE a quart of young peas, wafh them and put them into a ftew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, three cabbage lettuces cut fmall, five or fix young onions, with a little thyme.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 143 thyme, parfley, pepper and fait, and let them flew all together for a quarter of an hour, then put to them a pint of gravy, with two or three dices of bacon or ham, and let them ftew all together till the peas are enough, then thicken them up with a quarter of a pound of butter, rolled in flour. To frtcajfee Mushrooms. PEEL and fcrape the infide of the mufh- rooms, throw them into fait and water, if but- tons, rub them with flannel, take them out and boil them with frefh fait and water, when they are tender put in a little fhred parfley, an onion fluck with cloves, tofs them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour; you may put in three fpoonfuls of thick cream, and a lit- tle nutmeg cut in pieces, but take care to take out the nutmeg and onion before you ferve it to table: you may leave out the parfley, and flew in a glafs of wine if you like it. CHAP. V. Obfervations on Pies. Raised pies fhould have a quick oven, and well clofed up, or your pie will fall in the lides i it fliould have no water put in, till the minute it goes to the oven, it makes the cruft 5144 the experienced fad, and is a great hazard of tlie pie running.—' Light paile requires a moderate oven, but not too -flow, it will make them fad, and a quick oven will catch and burn it, and not give it time to rife; tarts that are iced require a flow oven, or the icing will be brown, and the pafte not be near baked.—Thefe fort of tarts ouyht to be O made of fugar pafle,* and rolled very thin. ^0^make crifp Paste for Tarts. TAKE one pound of fine flour mixed with one ounce of loaf fugar beat and fifted, make it into a ftiff pafle with a gill of boiling cream, and three ounces of butter in it, work it well, roll it very thin, when you have made your tarts, beat the white of an egg a little, rub it over them with a feather, lift a little double refined fugar over them, and bake them in a moderate, oven. Icing a fecond Way^ BEAT the white of an egg to a Erong froth, put in by degrees four ounces of double refined fugar, with as much gum as will lie on a fix- pence, beat and fifted fine, beat them half an hour, then lay it over your tarts the thicknefs of a ftraw, 'To make a light Paste for Tarts. TAKE one pound of fine flour, beat the w'hite of an egg to a flrong froth, mix it with as much water as will make three quarters of a pound .1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 145 pound of flour into a pretty fliff pafte, roll it out very thin, lay the third part of half a pound of butter in thin pieces, dredge it with.part of the quarter of your flour left out for that pur- pofe, roll it up tight, then with your pafte-pirt roll it out again, do fo until all your half pound of butter and flour is done, cut it in fquare pieces, and make your tarts j it requires a quicker oven than crifp pafte. "To ?}iake a?i Tart. SCALD eight or ten large codlins, when cold fkinthem, take the pulp and beat it as fine as you can with a lilver fpoon, then mix the yolks of fix eggs and the whites of four, beat all together as fine as poflible, put in grated nut- meg and fugar to your tafte, melt fome 6ne frefh butter, and beat it till it is like a fine thick cream, then make a fine puff pafte, and cover a tin petty-pan with it, and pour in the ingre- dients, but do not cover it with the pafte; bake it a quarter of an hour, then flip it out of the petty-pan on a difli, and ftrew fine fugar finely beat and lifted all over it. 'To make Paste for a Goose Pye. TAKE eighteen pounds of fine flour, put fix pounds of frefii butter, and one pound of ren- dered beef fuet in a kettle of water, boil it two or three minutes, then pour it boiling hot upon your flour, work it well into a pretty fliff pafte, pull it in lumps to cool, and raife your pye, bake L ith6 TH£ experienced I it in a hot oven ; you may make any raifed pie the fame way, only take a fmaller quantity in proportion. To 7nake a cold Paste for Dish Pies. TAKE a pound of fine flour, rub it into half a pound of butter, beat the yolks of two eggs, put them into as much water as will make it a ftiff pafte, roll it out, then put your butter on in thin pieces, dull: it with flour, roll it up tight, when you have done it fo for three times, roll it out pretty thin, and bake it in a quick oven. To make Paste for Custards. PUT half a pound of butter in a pan of wa- ter, take two pounds of flour, when your but- ter boils, pour it on your flour, with as much water as will make it into a good paflie, work it well, and when it has cooled a little raife your cuftards, put a paper round the inflde of them, when they are half baked fill them.—When you make any kind of dripping pafte, boil it four or five minutes in a good quantity of water to take the ftrength off it; when you make a cold cruft with fuet, flared it fine, pour part of it into the flour, then make it into a pafte, and roll it out as before (only ftrew in it fuet inftead of butter), "To make a French Pye. TO two pounds of flour put three quarters^ of a pound of butter, make it into a pafte, and raifeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 147 L 2 , raife the walls of the py^j then roll out fome paRe thin as for a lid, cut it into vine leaves, or the figures of any moulds you have, if you have no moulds, you may make ufe of a crocran, and pick out pretty fhapes, beat the yolks of two eggs, and rub theoutfideof the walls of the pye with it, and lay the wine leaves or fhapes round the walls, and rub them over with the eggs, fill the pye with the bones of the meat, to keep the Ileam in, that the cruft may be well foaked j it is to go to table without a lid. Take a calf’s head, walh and d^i*^n it well, boil it half an hour, when it is cold cut it in thin flices, and put it in a tofling-pan with three pints of veal gravy, and three fvveet-breads ,cut thin, and let it ftew one hour, with half an ounce of morels, and half an ounce of truffles, then have ready two calves feet boiled and boned, cut them in fmall pieces, and put them into your tofling-pan, with a fpoonful of lemon pickle and one of browning, Chyan pepper, and a little fait, when the meat is tender thicken the gravy a little with flour and butter, ftrain it, and put in a few pickled muflirooms, but frelli ones if you can get them; put the meat into the pye you took the bones out, and lay the nicelt part at the top, have ready a quarter of an hun- dred of afparagus heads, ftrew them over the top of the pye and ferve it up.I J 148 THE EXPERIENCED ; A Torkjhire Goose Pye. j TAKE a large fat goofe, fplit it down the | back, and take all the bones out, bone a turkey and two ducks the fame way, feafon them very well with pepper and fait, with fix woodcocks, lay the goofe down on a clean difli, with the llcin-fide down, and lay the turkey into the goofe with the Ikin down, have ready a large i hare cleaned well, cut in pieces, and Hewed in the oven, ’‘'•Th a pound of butter, a quarter of an ounce of mace beat fine, the fame of white pepper, and fait to your tafie, till the meat will leave the bones, and feum the butter off the gravy, pick the meat clean off, and beat it in a marble mortar very fine,with the butter you took off, and lay it in the turkey; take twenty-four pounds of the fineft flour, fix pounds of butter, half a pound of frefli rendered fuet, make the < paflc pretty thick, and ralfe the pye oval, roll out ; a lump of pafte, and cut it in vine leaves, or what form yOiU pleafe, rub the pye with the yolks of eggs, and put your ornaments on the walls, then turn 'the hare, turkey, and goofe upfide- down, and lay them in your pye, with the ducka at each end, and the woodcocks on the fides, make your lid pretty thick and put it on; you may lay flowers, or the fhape of the fowls in pafte, on the lid, and -make a hole in the mid- dle of your lid; the walls of the pye are to be | one inch and a half higher than the lid, then j rub it all over with the yolks of eggs, and bind it round with three fold paper, and lay the fame 6 over. IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 149 over the top; it will take four hours baking in a brown bread oven, when it comes out, melt two 'pounds of butter in the gravy that comes from the hare,and pour it hot in the pye through a tun-difh, clofe it well up, and let it be eight or ten days before you cut it; if you fend it any diftance, make up the hole in the middle with cold butter to prevent the air from getting in. \ A Hare Pye. CUT a large hair in pieces, feafon it well with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, put it in a jug with half a pound of butter, cover it clofe up with a pafte or cloth, fet it in a copper of boiling water, and let it flew one hour and a half, then take it out to cool, and make a rich forcemeat of a quarter of a pound of fcraped bacon, two onions, a glafs of red wine, the crumb of a penny loaf, a little winter favory, the liver cut fmall, a little nutmeg, feafon it high with pepper and fait, mix it well up with the yolks of three eggs, raife the pye and lay the forcemeat in the bottom, lay in the hare, with the gravy that came out of the hare, lay the lid on, and put flowers or leaves on it; it ‘will'take an hour and a half to bake it.—It is a handfome fide difh for a large table. A Salmon Pye. ^ BOIL your falmon as for eating, take off the Ikin, and all the bones out and pound the meat in a mortar very fine, with mace, nutmeg, pep- per, and fait to your tafte,-raife the pye, and put flowers or leaves on the walls, put the falmon in L 3 and150 THE EXPERIENCED and lid it, bake it an hour and a half, when it comes out of the oven take off the lid, and put in four ounces of rich melted butter, cut a lemon in flices, and lay over it, Rick in two or three leaves of fennel, and fend it to table without a lid. A Beef Steak Pye, - BEAT five or fix rump fteaks very well with a pafte pin, and feafon them well with pepper and fait, lay a good puff pafte round the difh, and put a little water in the bottom, then lay the fteaks in, with a lump of butter upon every fteak, and put on the lid, cut a little pafte in what form you pleafe, and lay it on. ^Thatched House Pye. TAKE an earthen difli that is pretty deep, rub the infide with two ounces of butter, then fpread over it two ounces of vermicelli, make a good puff pafte, and roll it pretty thick, and lay it on the difh; take three or four pigeons, feafon them very well with pepper and fait, and put a good lump of butter in them, and lay them in the difh with the breaft down, and put a thick lid over them, and bake it in a moderate oven i when enough take the difh yoil intend for it, and turn the pye on to it, and the vermicelli will appear like thatch, which gives it the name of thatched houfe pye. It is a pretty fide or corner difh^for a large dinner, or a bottom for fupper. % 1 EggENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 151 L 4 Egg ^^WBacon Pye to eat cold: STEEP a few thin flices of bacon all night in water to take out the fait, lay your bacon in the di(h, beat eight eggs, with a pint of thick cream, put in a little pepper and fait, and pour it on the bacon, lay over it a good cold pafle, bake it a day before you want it in a moderate oven. -^Calf’s Head Pye. PARBOIL a calf’s head,,when cold cut it in pieces, feafon it well with pepper and fait, put it in a raifed cruft, with half a pint of ftrong gravy, bake it an hour and a half, when it comes out of the oven, cut off the lid, and chop the yolks of three hard eggs fmall, ftrew them over the top of the pye, and lay three or four flices of lemon, and pour on fome good melted butter, and fend it to the table without a lid. Afavoury Chicken Pye. LET your chickens be fmall, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait, put a lump of but- ter into every one of them, lay them in the difh with the breafls up, and lay a thin flice of bacon over them, it will give them a pleafant flavour, then put in a pint of Rrong gravy, and make a good puff pafte, lid it and bake it in a moderate, oven: French cooks generally put morels and yolks of eggs chcppemfmall.152 THE EXPERIENCED A Mince Pye. ^ BOIL a neat’s tongue two hours, then fkin It, and chop it as fmall as poffible, chop very fmall three pounds of frefh beef fuet, three pounds of good baking apples, four pounds of cun ants clean walhed, picked, and well dried before the fire, one pound of jar raifins ftoned, and chopped fmall, and one pound of powder fugar, mix them all together with half an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmeg grated, cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce of each, and one pint of French Brandy, and make a rich puff pafte; as you fill the pye up, put in a little candied citron and orange cut in little pieces, what you have to fparej put clofe down in a pot and cover it up, put no citron or orange in till you ufe it, T(? make a Mince Pye njoithout . CHOP fine three pounds of fuet, and three pounds of apples, when pared and cored, wafh and dry three pounds of currants, flone and chop one pound of jar raifins, beat and fift one pound and a half of loaf fugar, cut fmall twelve ounces of candied orange peel, and fix ounces of citron, mix all well together with a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, half a quarter of an ounce of cin- namon, fix or eight cloves, and half a 'pint of French brandy, pot it clofe up, and keep it for ufe. ' • AENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 153 A Codling Pye. GATHER faiall codlings, put them in a clean brals pan v/ith fpring water, lay vine leaves on them, and cover them with a cloth wrapped round the cover of a pan to keep in the Ream, when they grow foftiih peel off the fliin, and put them in the fame water with the vine leaves, hang them a great height over the fire to green, when you fee them a fine green, take them out of the water and put them in a deep difh, with as much powder or loaf fugar as will fweeten them, make the lid of rich puff pafte, and bake it; when it comes from the oven take off the lid, and cut it in little pieces like lippets, and flick them round the infide of the pye with the points upward, pour over your codlings a good cuffard made thus. Boil a pint of cream, with a flick of cinnamon, and fugar enough to make it a little fweet, let it fland till cold, then put in the yolks of four eggs well beaten, fet it on the fire and keep ftirring it till it grows thick, but do not let it boil, left it curdle, then pour it into your pye, pare a little lemon thin, cut the peel like ftraws, and lay it on your codlings over the top. An Herb Pye for Lent, TAKE lettuce, leeks, fpinnage, beets, and parfley, of each a handful, give them a boil, then chop them fmall, and have ready boiled in a cloth ®ne quart of groats, with two or three onions in them, put them in a frying-pan with the herbs and f154 ' the experienced and a good deal of fait, a pound of butter, and a few apples cut thin, flew them a few minutes over the fire, fill you difh or raifed cruft with it j one hour will bake it ^ then ferve it up. Venison Pasty. BONE a breaft of fhoulder of venifon, feafon it well with mace, pepper, and fait, lay it in a deep pot with the beft part of a neck of mutton, cut in flices, and laid over the venifon, pour in a large glafs of red wine, put a coarfe pafte over it and bake it two hours in an oven, then lay the venifon in a difh, and pour the gravy over it, and put one pound of butter over it; make a good puff pafte, and lay it near half an inch thick, round the edge of the difh, roll out the lid, which muft be a little thicker than the pafte on the edge of the difh, and lay it on, then roll out another lid pretty thin, and cut in flowers, leaves, or whatever form you pleafe, and lay it on the lid; if you do not want it, it will keep in the pot that it was baked in eight or ten days, but keep the cruft on to prevent the air from getting into it.— A breaft and fhoulder of venifon is the moft proper for a pafty. A?i Hottentot Pye; BOIL and bone two calf’s feet, clean very well a calf’s chitterling, boil it and chop it fmall, take two chickens and cut them up as for eat- ing, put them in a ftew-pan, with two fweet- breads, a quart of veal or mutton gravy, half an ounce of morels, Chyan pepper and fait to your palate.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 155 palate, ftew them all together an hour over a gentle fire, then put in fix forcemeat balls that have been boiled, and the yolks of four hard eggs, and put them in a good railed cruft that has been baked for it, ftrew over the top of your pye a few green peas boiled as for eating ; or peel and cut fome young green brocoli ftalks about the fize of peas, give them a gentle boil, and ftrew them over the top of your pye, and fend it up hot without a lid, the fame way as the French pye. A Bride’s Pye. BOIL two calf’s feet, pick the meat from the bones, and chop it very fine, ftired fmall one pound of beef fuet, and a pound of apples, wafti and pick one pound of currants very fmall, dry them before the fire, ftone and chop a quarter of a pound of jar raifins, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, the fame of mace and nutmeg, two ounces of candied citron, tv/o ounces of candied lemon cut thin, a glafs of brandy and one of champagne, put them in a China difh with a rich puff pafte over it, roll another lid and cut it in leaves, flowers, figures, and put a glafs ring in it. An Eel Pye. SKIN and wafti your eels very clean, cut them in pieces one inch and a half long, feafon them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage rubbed fmall, raife your pies about the fize of the infide of a plate, fill your pies with eHs, lay156 THE EXPERIENCED lay a lid over them, and bake them in a quick oven ; they require to be well baked. To make a hoBSTER Fye. TAKE two or three good frefh lobfters, take out all the meat and cut it in large pieces, put a line puff pafte round the edge of your difh, then put in a layer of lobfters, and a layer of oyfters, with bread crumbs and llices of but- ter, a little pepper and fait, then a layer of lob- , jfterS, &c. till your dilh is full, then take the red part of the lobfter, pound it fine with chopped oyfters, crumbs of bread, and a little butter; make them into fmall balls and fry them, then lay them upon the top of your pye; boil the Ihells of your oyfters to make a little gravy, put to it a little pepper and fait and the oylter liquor, ftrain it through a fieve, and fill your pye with it, then lay on your cruft, and ftick a few fmall claws in the middle of your pye, and fend it to the oven.—It is a genteel corner difti for dinner, ATorkJkire Giblet Pye. WHILST the blood of your goofe is warm, put in a teacup-ful of groats tolwell, grate the crumbs of a penny' loaf, and pour a gill of boil- ing milk on them, (hred half a pound of beef fuet very fine, chop two leaks, and four or five leaves of fage fmall, three yc^ks of eggs, pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your palate, mix them all up together, have ready the giblets feafoned very well wi'th pepper and fait, and lay them round a deep difh, then’put a pound of fat beef overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 157 the pudding in the middle of the diih, pour in. half a pint of gravy, lay on a good palle, and bake it in a moderate oven. A Rook Pye. SKIN and draw fix young rooks, and cut out the back bones, feafon them well with pepper and fait, put them in a deep difii with a quar- ter of a pint of water, layover them half a pt)und of butter, make a good puff pafte, and cover the difh, lay a paper over, for it requires a good deal of baking. A fweet Veal Pye. LAY marrow or beef fuet fiired very fine in the bottom of your difli, cut into fiieaks the belt end of a neck of veal, and lay them in, firew over them fome marrow or fuet, it makes them cat tenderer, ftone a quarter of a pound of jar raifins, chop them a little, walh half a pound of currants and put them over the fiieaks, cut three ounces of candied citron, and two ounces of candied orange, and lay them on the top, boil half a pint of -fweet mountain or fack, with a fiick of cin- namon, and pour it in, lay a light pafte round the dilh, and then lid it, an hour will bake it; when it comes out of the oven, put in a glafs ^ f French brandy or fhrub, and ferve it up. An Olive Pye. CUT a fillet of veal in thin flices, rub them over with yolks of eggs, fiirew over them a few crumbs I158 THE EXPERIENCED crumbs of bread, Ihred a little lemon peel very line, and put it on them with a little grated nut- meg, pepper, and fait, roll them up very tight, and lay them in a pewter clilh, pour over tliem half a pint of good gravy made of bones, put half a pound of butter over it, make a light palle, and lay it round the dilla, roll the lid half an inch thick, and lay it on.- Make a beef olive pye the lame way. Afavoury Veal Pye. CUT a loin of veal int-o fleaks, feafon it with beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, lay the meat in your difh with Iweet-breads feafoned with the meat, and the yolks of hx hard eggs, a pint of oyfters, and half a pint of good gravy, lay ’ round your difh a good puff pafle, half an inch thick, and cover it with a lid the fame thicknefs, bake it in a quick oven an hour and a quarter j when you take it out of the oven, cut off the lid, then cut the lid in eight or ten pieces, and flick it round the infide of the rim, cover the meat with flices of lemon, and ferve it up. ’To make favoury Patties. TAKE one pound of the infide of a cold loin of veal, or the fame quantity of cold fowl, that have been either boiled or roafled, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet, chop them as imall as pof- fible, with fix or eight fprigs of parfley, feafon them well.with half a nutmeg grated fine, pep- per and fait, put.them in a tolling pan, with half a pint of veal gravy, thicken the gravy wdth a littleENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 159 little flour and butter, and two fpoonfuls of* cream, and (bake them over the fire two minutes, and fill your patties. You mufl: make your patties thus : Raife them of an oval form, and bake them as for cuftards, cut feme long nar- row'bits of pafte, and bake them on a dufting box, but not to go round, they are for handles ; fill your-patties when quite hot with the meat, then fet your handles a-crofs the patties; they will look like bafkets if you have nicely pinched the walls of the patties, when you raifed them} five will be a difh, you may make them with fugar an^ currants inflead of parfley. Fried Patties. CUT half a pound of a leg of veal very fmall, with fix oyfters, put the liquor of the oyfters to the crumb of a penny loaf, mix-them to- gether with a little fait, put it in a tofling-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and keep ftirring it for three or four minutes over the fire, then make a good puff pafte, roll it out, and cut it in little bits about the fize of a crown piece, fome round, fquare, .and three-cornered, put a little of the meat upon them, and lay a lid on them, turn up the edges as you would a pafty, to keep the gravy in, fry them in a pan -full of hog’s lard j they are a pretty corner difh for din- ner or fupper: if you want theni for garnifh to a cod’s head, put in only oyfters j they are very pretty for a calf’s head hsiih. SweetTHE EXPERIENCED i6o Zuoeet Patties. TAKE the meat of a boiled calf’s, foot, two large apples, and one ounce of candied orange, chop them very fmall, grate half a nutmeg, mix them with the yolk of an egg, a fpoonful of French brandy, and a quarter of a pound of currants clean wafhed and dried, make a good puff pafte, roll it in different fliapes, as the fried ones, and fill them the fame way ^ you may either bake or fry them. They are a pretty fide difh for fupper. Common Patties. TAKE the kidney part of a very fat loin of veal, chop the kidney, veal, and fat very fmall all together, feafon it with mace, pepper, and fait, to your tafte, raife littlo patties the fize of a tea-cup, fill them with your meat, put thin ' lids on them, bake them very crifp, five is enough for a fide difh. 0 To make fine Patties. SLICE either turkey, houfelamb, or chicken, with an equal quantity of the fat of lamb, loin of veal, or the infide of a furloin of beef, a little parfley, thyme, and lemon-peel fhred, put it all in a marble mortar, and pound it very fine, fea- fon it with white pepper and fait, then make a fine puff pafte, roll it out in thin fquare fheets, put the forcemeat in the middle, cover it over, clpfe them all round, and cut the pafte even. Juft beforeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. i6i before they go into the oven wafli them over with the yolk of an egg, and bake them twenty minutes in a quick oven j have ready a little -white gravy feafoned with pepper, fait, and a little (halot, thickened up with a little cream or butter; as foon as the patties come out of the oven, make a hole in the top *nd pour in fome gravy, you muft take care not to put too much gravy in, for fear of its running out at the^fides, and fpoiling the patties. To make common Fritters. » TAKE half a pint of ale and two eggs, beat in as much flour as will make it rather thicker than a common pudding, with nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, let it hand three or four minutes to rife, then drop them with a fpoon into a pan of boiling lard, fry them a light brown, drain them on afieve, ferve them up with fugar grated over them, and wine fauce in a boat. To make Fritters. PARE the largefl; baking apples you can get, take out the core with an apple feraper, cut them ' in round flices, and dip them in batter, made as for common fritters, fry them crifp, ferve them up with fugar grated over them, and wine faucc in a boat.—They are proper for a fide difh for fupper. To make Clary Fritters. BEAT two eggs exceeding well with on^ fpoonful of cream, one ot ratlfia water, one M ounceo ounces \ 162 THE EXPERIENCED ounce of loaf fugar, and two fpoonfuls of floor, • grate in half a nutmeg, have ready wafhed and dried clary leaves, dip them in the batter and fry them a nice brown; ferve them up with quarters of Seville oranges, laid round them, ftnd good m’elted butter in a boat. To make Rasberry Fritters. GRATE two Naples bifcuits, pour over them half a gill of boiling cream, when it is almofl: cold, beat the yolks of four eggs to a flrong froth, beat the bifcuits a little, then beat both together exceeding well, put to it two ounces of fugar, and as much juice of rafpberry as will make it a pretty pink colour, and give it a pro- per lliarpnefs, drop them into a pan of boiling lard, the fize of a walnut; when you dilh them up, ftick bits of citron in fome, and blanched almonds cut lengthways in others; lay round them green and yellow fweetmeats and ferve them up. They are a pretty corner difh for either dinner or fupper. To make aTFritter. t TAKE the crumb of a penny loaf, pour on it half a pint of boiling milk, let it Ifand an, hour, then put in as much juice of tanfey as will give it a flavour, but not to make it bitter, then make it a pretty green with the juice of fpinagc, put to it a fpoonful of ratafia water, or brandy, fweeten it to your tafte, grate the rind of half a lemon, beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them all together, put them in a tofling-pan with lourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 163 ounces of butter, ftk it over a flow fire till it is quite thick, take it off, and let it ftand two or thrge hours, then drop them into a pan full of boiling lard, a fpoonful is enough for a fritter, ferve them up with flices of orange round them, grate fugar over them, and' wine fauce in a boat. 1^0 makeVhVMB Fritters Rice. GRATE the crumbs of a penny loaf, pour over it a pint of boiling cresm, or good milk, let it fland four or five hours, then beat it ex- ceeding fine, put to it the yolks of five eggs, four ounces of fugar, and a nutmeg grated j beat them well together, and fry them in hog’s lard; drain them on a fieve, and ferve them lip with white wine fauce under them. N. B, You may put turrants in if you pleafe. ^0 make Water Fritters-. TAKE a quart of water, five or fix fpoonfuls of flour (the batter mufl be very thick) and a little fait; mix all thefe together, and beat the yolks and whites of eight eggs with a little brandy, then llrain them through a hair fieve, and put them to the other things j the longer they ftand before you fry them the better. Juft before you fry them, melt about half a pound of butter very thick, and beat it well in ; you muft not turn them, and take care not to burn them : the bell thing to fry them in is fine lard. M 2 •To164 THE EXPERIENCED To make French Bancees. TAKE half a pint of water, a bit of lemon peel, a bit of butter the bignefs of a walnut, a little orange-flower water; let tbefe boil three or four minutes; then take out the lemon peel, a‘nd add to it a pint of flour, keep the water boiling and ftirring all the while till it is fl;iff, then take it off the fire and put in fix eggs, leaving out the whites of three; beat thcfe well . for about half an hour, till they come to a' ftiff pafte, drop them into a pan of boiling lard with atea-fpoon; if they are of aright lightnefs they will be very nice; keep fhaking the pan all the time till they are of a light brown. A*Jarge di£h will take fix or feve^^ minutes boiling; when done enough, put tifem into a d1(h that will drain them, fet them by the fire, and firew fine fugar over them. To make German Puffs. PUT half a pint of^ood milk into a tofling- pan, and dredge it in flour till it is thick as hafty- pudding, keep fiirring it over a flow fire till it is all of a lump, then put it in a marble mortar; when it is cold put to'it the yolks of eight eggs, four ounces of fugar, a fpoonful of rofe water, grate a little nutmeg, and the rind of half a le- mon, beat them together an hour or more, when it looks light and bright, drop them into a pan of boiling lard with a tea-fpoon, the fize of a lar<?e nutmeg, they will rife and look like a large "" yellowENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 165 yellow plumb if they are well beat: as you fry them, lay them on a fieve to drain, grate fugar round your difli, and ferve them up with fack for fauce.—It is a proper corner difh for dinner, er fupper. ‘To make Gofers. BEAT three eggs well, with three fpoonfuls of flour and a little fait, then mix them with a pint of milk, an ounce of fugar, and half a nut- meg grated, beat them well together, then make your gofer tongs hot, ru.b them with frefh but- ter, nil the bottom part of your tongs, and clap the top up, then turn them, and when a fine brown on both fides, put them in a difh, and pour white wine fauce over them, five is enough for a difh, do not lay them one upon another, it will make them foft.—You may put in currants if you pleafe. To make Wafer Pancakes, BEAT four eggs well with two fpoonfuls of fine flour, and two of cream, one ounce of loaf fugar, beat and fifted, half a nutmeg grated, put a^little cold butter in a clean cloth, and rub your-pan well with it, pour in your batter and make it as thin as a wafer, fry it only on one fide, put them on a difh, and grate fugar betwixt every pancake, and fend them hot to the table. To make Cream Pancakes. TAKE the yolks of two eggs,.mix them ydth half a pint of good cream, two ounces of fugar, M 3 rub. i66 THE EXPERIENCED rub your pan with lard, and fry them as thin as pofifible, grate fugar over them, and fervc them up hot. 'To make Clary Pancakes. BEAT three eggs with three fpoonfuls of fine flour, and a little fait, exceeding well, mix them with a pint of milk, and put lard into your pan ; when it is hot, pour in your batter as thin as polTible, then lay in your clary leaves, and pour a little more batter thin over them, fry them a fine brown, and ferve them up. To make Batter Pancakes. Beat three eggs with a pound of flour, x-ery well, put to it a pint of milk, and a little i^lt, fry them in lard or butter, grate fagar over them, cut them in quarters and ferve them up. To makeJine Pancakes. TAKE a pint of cream, eight eggs, (leave out two of the whites) three Ipoonfuls of lack or orange-flower water, a little fugar if it be agreeable, a grated nutmeg j the butter and cream mufl: be melted over the fire; mix all to- gether with three fpoonfuls of flour ; butter the frying-pan for the firft, let them' run as thin as you can in the pan, fry them quick, and fend ' them up hot. To make Tansey Pancakes. BE AT four eggs, and put to them half a pint of cream, four ipoonfuls of flour, and two of fineENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 167 fine fugar, beat them a quarter of art hour, then put in one fpoonful of the juice of tanfey, and two of the juice of fpinage with a little grated nutmeg, beat all well together, and fry them in frefli butter: garnifh them with quarters of Seville orariges, grate double refined fugar over them, and fend them up hot. To make apmk-coloured Pancake. BOIL a large beet root tender, and beat it fine in a marble mortar, then add the yolks of four eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, and three fpoonfuls of good cream, fweeteii it to your tafte, and grate in half a nutmeg, and put in a glafs of brandy; beat them all together half an hour, fry them in butter, and garnifh the/n with green fweetmeats, preferved apricots, or green fprigs of myrtle.—It is a pretty corner difh for cither dinner or fupper. C H A P. . VI. Obfervations on Puddings. Bread and cullard puddings require time, and a moderate oven, that will raife, and not burn them; batter and rice puddings a quick oven, and always butter the pan or difh before you pour the pudding in ; when you boil a pud- ding, take great care your cloth is very clean, dip it in boiling water, and flour it well, and give your cloth a fhake; if you boil it in a bafon, M 4 butterj68 THE EXPERIENCED butter it, and boil it in plenty of water, and turn it often, and do not cover the pan s when enough take it up in the bafon, let it Ifand a few minutes to cool, then untie the firing, wrap the cloth round the bafon, lay your difh over it, and turn the pudding out, and take the bafon and cloth off Very carefully, for very often a light pudding is broke in* turning out. ^Hunting Pudding. BEAT eight eggs, and mix them with a pint of good cream, and a pound of flour, beat them ■Well together, and put to them a pound of beef fuet chopped very fine, a pound of currants well cleaned, half a pound of jar railins llon. d and chopped fmall, a quarter of a pound of powdered fugar, two ounces of candied citron, the fame of candied orange cut fmall, grate a large nutmeg, and mix all well together, with half a gill of brandy, put it in a cloth, and tie it up clofe, it will take four hours boiling. tTo make a baked Almond Pudding. BOIL the fkins of two lemons .very tender, and beat them very fine, beat half a pound'of almonds in rofe water, and a pound of fugar, very fine, melt half a pound of butter and let it Hand till quite cold j beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, mix them, and beat them all together with a little orange-flower water, and bake it in the oven.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. i6^ 5 A Le- To 7nake a baked Apple Podding. •HALF a pound of apples well boiled and pounded, half a pound ot butter beaten ta a cream, and mixed with the apples before they are cold, and fix eggs with the whites well beaten and ftrained, half a pound of fugar, pounded and fifted, the rinds of two lemons,' well boiled and beaten j lift the peel into clean water twice in the boiling, put a thin cruft in the bottom and rims of your difti. Half an hour will bake it, A boiled Custard Pudding. BOIL a ftick or two of cinnamon in a quart of thin cream, with a quarter of a pound of fugar; when it is cold put in the yolks of fix- eggs well beat, and mix them together; fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it round one way, till it grows pretty thick, but do not let it boil, take it off and let it ftand till it be quite cold, butter a cloth very well, and-dredge it with flour, put in your cuftard, andttie it up very clofe, it will take three quarters of an hour boiling *, when yon take it up, put it in a round bafon to cool a little, then untie the cloth, and lay the di£h on the" . bowl and turn it upfide down ; be careful how you take off the cloth, for a very little will break the pudding, grate over it a little fugar; for fauce, white wine thickened with flour and butter put in the difti.It;© THE EXPERIENCED Lemon Pudding. BLANCH and beat eight ounces of Jordan almonds, with orange flower-water, add to them half a pound of cold butter, the yolks of ten eggs, the juice of a large lemon, half the rind grated fine, work them in a marble mortar, or wooden bafon till they look white and light, lay a good puff paffe pretty thin in the bottom of a China difh, and pour in your pudding'; it will take half an hour baking. O To 7nake a Lemon Pudding afecondWay. GRATE the rinds of four lemons, and the juice of two or three, as they are in fize, then, take two bifeuits grated, three quarters of a pound of boiled butter, with half a pound of i'ugar diffolved in the yolks of twelve eggs, and four whites well beat, with a little fait and a quarter of a nutmeg grated; mix all together very well and put it into a difh j put a nice pafte round the edge before it.goes into the oven. Half an hour will bake it. , To make a Lemon Pudding third Way, T AKE a pound of flour well dried and fifted, a pound of fine fugar beat and fifted, the rind of a lemon grated, twelve eggs, the yolks beat a little by tbemfelves, and the ‘whites beat till they are all froth, then gently mix all together, put it in a pan, and bake it Juft half an hour. A ground.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, Aground Rice Pudding. BOIL four ounces of ground rice in water, till it be foft, then beat the yolks of four eggs and put to them a pint of cream, four ounces of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter, 'mix them all well together i you may either boil or bake it. Orange Pudding. BOIL the rind of a Seville orange very foft, beat it in a marble mortar, with the juice, put to it two Naples bifcuits grated very fine, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of fix eggs, mix them well to- gether, lay a good puff pafte round the edge of your China dilh, bake it in a gentle oven, half an hour; you may make a lemon pudding the fame way, by putting in a lemon inftead of the orange. To make an Orange Pudding aficond Way, TAKE the rinds of fix oranges, boil them till they are tender, changing the water as often as you find it bitter, cut them very fine, then pound and fift three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, wafh very well three quarters of a pound of butter, then take twelve eggs, leaving four of the whites out; mix all well together, but- ter the bottom of the di(h well, and make a rich cruft, which muft be put at the bottom. Bake it nicely j it muft not be too brown. Calf’sTHE EXPERIENCED X77 Calf’s Foot Pudding. BOIL a gang of calf’s feet, take the meat from the bones and chop it exceeding fine, put to it the crumb of a penny loaf, a pound of beef fuet fhred very fmall, half a pint of cream, eight eggs, a pound of currants well cleanfed, four ounces of citron cut fmall, two ounces of candied orange cut like ftraws, a large nutmeg grated, and a large glafs of brandy, mix them all very well together, butter your cloth, and' dull: it with flour, tie it clofe up, boil it three hours j when you take the pudding up, it is bell to put it in a bowl that will Juft hold it, and let it ftand a quarter of an hour, before you turn it out, lay your dilh upon the top of the bafpn and turn it upfide down, A boiled Rice Pudding. BOIL a quarter of a pound of rice in water, till it be foft, and put it in a hair fievt to dram, beat it in a marble mortar, withjjp’e yolks of five eggs, a quarter of a pemnd c^butier, the fame of fugar, grate a fniall iiutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon, work them well together for half an hour, then put in half a pound of currants well w^alhed and cleaned, mix them well-together, butter your’cloth and tie it up j boil it an hour, and ferve it up with white wine fauce.= BreadENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 173 Breap Pudding. TAKE the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour on it a pint of good milk'boiling hot, when it is cold, beat it very fine, with two'ounces of butter and fugar to your palate, grate half a nutmeg in it, beat it up with four eggs; and p'ut them in and beat all together near half an hour, tie it in a cloth and boil it an hour, you may put in half a pound of currants for change, and pour over it white winefauce. I make a boiled Bread Pudding afecond Way. • TAKE the infide of a penny loaf, grat6 it fine, add to it two ounces of butter, take a pint and a half of milk, with a ftick' of cinnamon ; boil it and pour it over the bread, and cover it elofq till it is cold, then take fix'eggs beat up very well with rofe water, mix them all well together, fweeten to your tafte, and boil it one hour. % To make a Nice VvDiDit^iG. : BOIL half a pint of milk with a bit of cin- namon, four eggs with the whites well beaten, the rind of a lemon grated, h;ilf a pound of fuet chopped fine, as much bread as will do; pour your milk on the bread and luet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon peel, eggs, a little lugar, and fome nutmeg grated fine* Either bake or boil it, as yott think proper.^ ** * • TV174 the experienced ?i! waif a Plain Pudding. , ✓ / BEAT the yolks and whites of three eggs, with two large fpoonfuls of flour, a little fait, and half a pint of good milk or cream, make it the thicknefs of a pancake batter, and beat all very well together. Half an hour will boil it. To make a Sippet Pudding. n CUT a penny loaf as thin as poflible, put a layer of bread in the bottom of a pewter difh, then ftrew over it a layer of marrow, or beef fuet, a handful of currants, then lay a layer of bread, and fo on till you All your dilh ; as the firft lay, let the marrow or fuet, and currants be at the top, beat four eggs and mix them with a quart of cream, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and a large nutmeg grated, pour it on your difli, and bake it in a moderate oven, when it comes out of the oven, pour over it wine fauce. , An Apricot Pudding. TAKE twelve large apricots, parethem^ and give them a fcald in water, till they are foft; then take out the hones, grate the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour on it a pint of cream boling hot, let it hand till half cold, then add a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four eggs, mix all together with a glafs of Madeira wine, pour it in a dilh, with thin pulf pafte round; bake it half an hour in a moderate oven. A Trans-ENGLISH house-keeper: vji A Transparent Pudding. ' I BEAT eight eggs very well, and put them in a pan, with half a pound of butter, and the fame weight of loaf fugar beat fine, a little grated nut- meg, fet it on the fire and keep fiirring it till it thickens like buttered eggs, then put it inabafoa to cool, roll a rich puff pafte very thin, lay it round the edge of a China diih, then pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven half an hour, it will cut light and clear.—It is a pretty pudding for a corner for dinner and a middle for fupper. ' Vermicelli Pudding. BOIL four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till it is foft, with a ftick or two of cinnamon, then put in half apint of thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four beaten eggs. Bake it in an earthen dilh without a palte. A red Sago Pudding. TAKE two ounces of fago, boil it in water, with a {lick of cinnamon till it be quite foft and thick, let it {land till quite cold, in the mean time grate the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, and pour over it a large glafs of red wine, chop four ounces of marrow, and half a pound of fugar, and thej^lks of four beaten eggs, beat them all together for a quarter of an hour, lay a puff pafte176 ' THE EXPERIENCED - pafte round your difh, and fend it to the oven ‘ v^^hen it comes back Rick it over with blanched almonds cut the long way, and bits of citron cut the fame; fend it to table. ■ %. V A ^(?/WTansey Pudding. GRATE four Naples bifcuits, put as much cream boiling hot as will wet them, beat the •yolks of four eggs, have ready a few chopped tanfey leaves, with as much fpinage as will make it a pretty green, be careful you do not put too jDuch tanfey in, it will make it bitter, mix all together when the cream is cold with a little fugar, and fet it over a flow fire till it grows thick, then tak^ it off, and when cold put it in a cloth, well buttered and floured, tie it up clofe and let it boil three quarters of an hour, take it up in a bafon, and let it Rand one quarter, then 'turn it carefully out, and put white wine fauce round it. A Tansey Pudding ^ith Almonds. BLANCH four ounces of almonds, and beat them very fine with rofe-water., dice a French roll very thin, put on a pint of cream boiling hot, beat four eggs very well, and mix with the eggs when beaten a little fugar and grated nut- meg, a glafs of brandy, a little juice of tanfey, and thejuice of fpinage to make it green, put all the ingredients into aRew-pan, with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, and give it a,gentle boil; you may either boil it or bake it in a diRi, either with a cruR or writing paper. AENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 177 A Tansey Pudding of ground Kice, BOIL fix ounces of ground rice in a quart of good milk, till it is foft; then put in half a pound of butter, with fix eggs very well beat, and fugar and rofe water to make it palatable; beat fome fpinage in a mortar, with a few leaves of tanfey, fqueeze out the juice through a cloth, and put it in; mix all well together, cover your dilh with writing paper well buttered, and pour it in ; three quarters of an hour will bake it; when you difh it up fiick it all over with a Seville or fweet orange in half quarters. % A Sago Pudding another Way. BOIL two ounces of fago till it is quite thick in milk, beat fix eggs, leaving out three of the whites, put to it half a pint of cream, two fpoqnfuls of fack, nutmeg and fugar to your tafte j put a pafte round yourdifii. Little Citron Puddings. TAKE half a pint of cream, one fpoonful of fine flour, two ounces of fugar, a little nut- meg, mix them all well together, with the yolks of three eggs, put it in tea-cups, and fiick in it two ounces of citron cut very thin, bake them in a pretty quick oven, and turn them out upon a China difh.—Five is enough for a fide difli, A baked ^Pudding. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf, pour ®n it a pint of boiling milk, with a quarter N of1 I 178 THE EXPERIENCED of a pound of butter in it, let it ftand till almofi: ! cold, then beat,hve eggs, and put them in with j a quarter of a pound of fugar, a large nutmeg | grated, and a glafs of brandy, hir them about 1 and put them in a tofling pan, with as much 1 juice of fpinage as will green it, and a little tanfey chopped fmall, ftir it about over a flow Are till it grows thick, butter a fheet of writing paper and lay it in the bottom of a pewter difli, pin the corners of the paper to make it ftand one inch above the difh, to keep the pudding from fpreading, and let it Hand three quarters of an hour in the oven ; when baked, put the difh over it you fend it up in, and turn it out upon it, take off the paper, flick it round with a Seville orange cut in half quarters, flick one quarter in the middle, and ferve it up with wine fauce. It will look as green as if it had not been baked, when turned out. i P A green Codling Pudding. » GREEN a quart of codlings, as for a pye, rub them through a hair fieve with the back of a wooden fpoon, and as much of the juice of beets as will green your pudding, put in the crumbs of half a penny loaf, half a pound of butter, and three eggs well beaten; beat them all together with half a pound of fugar, and two fpoonfuls of cyder; lay a good pafle round the rim of the difh, and pour it in.—Half an hour j will bake it, ; %ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 179 *To make a common Rice Pudding. % WASH half a pound of rice, put to it three pints of good milk, mix it well with a quarter of a pound of butter, a flick or two of cinnamon beaten fine, half a nutmeg grated, one egg well beat, a little fait and fugar to your tafle. One hour and a half will bake it in a quick oven; when it comes out take off the top, and put the pudding in breakfafl cups, turn them into a hot difh like little puddings, and ferve it up. A Marrow Pudding. 'POUR on the crumb of a penny loaf a pint of cream boiling hot, cut a pound of beef mar- row very thin, beat four eggs very well, then add a glafs of brandy, with fugar and nutmeg to your tafle, and mix them all well up together; you may either boil or bake it, three quarters of an hour will do it, cut two ounces of citron very thin, and flick them all over it when you difh it up. Marrow Pudding afecondJVay, HALF boil four ounces of rice, fhred half a pound of marrow very fine, flone a quarter of a pound of raifins, chop them very fmall, with two ounces of currants well cleanfed, beat four eggs a quarter of an hour, mix it all together with a pint of good cream, a fpoonful of brandy, fugar and nutmeg to your tafle; you may either bake it or put it in hogs fkins. N 2 MarrowTHE EXPERIENCED i8o Marrow Pudding a third Way. . BLANCH half a pound of almonds, put them in cold water all night, and next day beat them in a marble mortar very fine, with orange- flower, or rofe water, take the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour on them a pint of boiling cream ; whilft the cream is cooling, beat the yolks of four eggs and tvyo whites a quarter of an hour, add a little fugar, and grate nutmeg to your pa- late, have ready flared the marrow of two bones, and mix them all well together with a little can- died orange cut fmall, this is ufually made to fill in Ikins, but it is a good baked pudding : if you put it in fkins, do not fill them too full, for it will fwell, but boil them gently. White Puddings in Skins. WASH half a pound of rice in warm water, boil it ih milk till it is foft, put it in a fieve to drain, blanch and beat half a pound of Jordan almonds very fine, with rofe v/ater, wafh and dry a pound of currants, then cut in fmall bits a pound of hog’s lard, take fix eggs and beat them well, half a pound of fugar, a large nut- meg grated, a flick of cinnamon, a little mace, and a little fait, mix them very well together, fill your fkins and boil them. Quaking Pudding. BOIL a quart of cream and let it (land till almoft cold, then beat four eggs a full quarter of an hour, with a fpoonful and a half of flour, then mix them with your cream, add fugar and nut- meg to your palate, tie it ejofe up in a cloth well buttered.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. i8i buttered, and let it boil an hour and turn it care- fully out. To 77iake a Quaking Pudding a fecond Way. TAKE a pint of good cream, the yolks of ten eggs and fix whites, beat them very well, and run them through a fine fieve ; then take two heaped fpoonfuls of flour, and a fpoonful or two of cream, beat it with the flour till it be fmooth, then mix all together, and tie it clofe up' in a difla or bafon well rubbed with butter, and dredged with flour, the water muft boil when you put in the pudding. One hour will boil it j ferve it up with wine fauce in a boat. To make <2 Yorkshire Pudding to bake under Meat. BEAT four eggs with four large fpoonfuls of fine flour, and a little fait, for a quarter of an hour, put to them one quart and a half of milk, mix them well together, then butteradripping- pan and fet it under beef, mutton, or a loin of veal when roafting, and when it is brown cut it in fquare pieces and t$irn it over ; when well browned on the under lide, fend it to table on a diflb.—You may mix a boiled pudding the fame way. A boiled Milk Pudding, POUR a pint of new milk boiling hot on three fpoonfuls of fine flour, beat the flour and milk for half an hour, then put in three eggs and beat it a little longer, grate in half a tea-fpoonful of ginger, dip the cloth in boiling water, butter it well, and'flour it, put in the pudding and tie it clofe up, and boil it an hour j it requires great N 3 carei82 the experienced care when you turn it out; pour over it thick melted butter. Herb Pudding: OF fpinage, beets, parfley, and leeks take each a handful, wafh them and give them a fcald in boiling water, then fhred them very fine, have ready a quart of groats fteeped in warm water half an hour, and a pound of hog’s-lard cut in little bits, three large onions chopped fmall, and three fage leaves hacked fine, put in a little fait, rnix all well together, and tie it clofe up; it will require to betaken up in boiling to fiacken the firing a little. T’o make a Yam Pudding. TAKE a middling white yam, and either boil or roafi it, then pare off the ikin and pound it very fine, with three quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of fugar, a little mace, cinnamon, and twelve eggs, leaving out half the whites, beat them with a little rofe water. You may put in a little citron cut fmall, if you like it, and bake it nicely. Gooseberry Pudding. SCALD half a pint of green goofeberries in Tvater till they are foft, put them into a fieve to drain, when cold work them through an hair fieve with the back of a clean wooden fpoon, add to them half a pound of fugar, and the fame of butter, four ounces of Naples bifcuits, beat fix eggs very well, then mix all together, and beat them a quarter of an hour, pour it in an earthen difii without pafie ; half an hour will bake it. 'ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 1S3 To make Raspberry Dumplins. MAKE a good cold pafte, roll it a quarter of an inch thick, and fpread over it rafpberry jam to your own liking, roll it up, and boil it in a cloth one hour at lead:, take it up, and cut it in five dices, and lay one in the middle and the other four round it, pour a little good melted butter in the difh, and grate fine fugar round the edge of the difh.—It is proper for a corner or fide for dinner. To make Damson Dumplins. MAKE a good hot pafte cruft, roll'it pretty thin, lay it in a bafon, and put in what quantity of damfons you think proper, wet the edge of the pafte, and clofe it up, boil it in a cloth one hour and fend it up whole, pour over it melted butter, and grate fugar round the edge of the difh: Note, you may make any kind of pre- ferved fruit the fame way. To make Apple Dumplins. PARE your apples, take out the core with an apple fcraper, fill the hole with quince or orange marmalade, or fugar, which fuits you, then take a piece of cold pafte, and make a hole in it, as if you was going to make a pye, lay in'your ap- ple, and put another piece of pafte in the fame form, and clofe it up round the fide of your ap- ple, it is much better than gathering it in a lump at one end, tie it in a cloth, and boil it three quarters of an hour, pour melted butter over them, and ferve them up, five is enough for a184 THE EXPERIENCED i To make a Sparrow Dumpling. MIX half a pint of good milk, with three eggs, a little fait, and as much flour as will make it a thick batter, put a lump of butter rolled in pepper and fait in every fparrow, mix them in the batter, and tie them in a cloth, boil them one hour and a half, pour melted butter over them and ferve them up. Ti? Barm Pudding. TAKE a pound of flour, mix a fpoonful of . barm in it, with a little fait, and make it into a light pafte with w'arm water, let it lie one hour, then make it up into round balls, and tie them up in little nets, and put them in a pan of boiling water, do not cover them, it will make them fad, nor do not let them boil fo fall; as to let the water boil over them, turn them when they have been in flx or feven minutes, and they will rife through the nets and look like diamonds, twenty minutes will boil them , ferve them up and pour fweet fauce over them. 'To make a Hanover Cake or Pudding. TAKE half a pound of almonds blanched, and beat fine with a little rofe water, half a pound of fine fugar, pounded and lifted, fifteen eggs, leaving out half the whites, the rind of a lemon grated very fine j put a few almonds in the mortar at a time, and put in by degrees about a tea-cupful of rofe water; keep throwing in the fugar j when you have done the almonds and fugar together a little at a time till they are all uled up, then put it into your pan with the eggs: beat them very well together. Half an hour will bake it j it muli be a light brown. ‘ PARTPART II. C- H A P. VII. Qbfervations on making Decorations for a Table. WHEN you fpin a filver web for a defert, always take (particular care your fire is clear, and a pan of water upon the fire to keep the heat from your face and fto- mach, for fear the heat ihould make you faint; you muft not fpin it before a kitchen fire, for the fmaller the grate is, fo that the fire be clear and hot, the better able you will be to fit a long time before it, for if you fpin a whole dcfert, you will be feveral hours in Ipinning it; be fure to have a tin box to put every balket in as you fpin them, and cover them from the air, and keep them v/arm, until you have done the whole as your receipt directs you. If you fpin a gold web, take care your chafing difli is burnt clear; before you fet it upon the table where your mould is, fet your ladle on the fire,and keep ftirring it with a wooden Ikewer till it juft boils, then let it cool a little, for it will not fpin when it is boiling hot, and if it grows cold it is equally as bad, but as it cools on the fides of your ladle, dip the point of your knife in, and begin to fpin round your mould as long as it will draw, then heat it again'; the only at^ is to keep it of a proper heat, and it will draw out like a fine thread, and of a gold colour; it is a great fault to put in too much fugar at a time, i fori86 THE EXPERIENCED I for often heating takes the moifture out of the fugar, and burns it; therefore the heft way is to put in a little at a time, and clean out your ladle. When you make a hen or bird’s neft, let part of your jelly be fet in your bowl before you put 'on your flummery, or flraw, for if your jelly is warm they will fettle to the bottom, and mix together. It it be a fifli pond, or a tranfparent pudding, put in your jelly at three different times, tp make your difli or fruit keep at a proper diftanceone from another, and be fure your jelly is very clear and fliff, or it will not fhow the flgures, nor keep whole j when you turn them out, dip your bafon lin warm water, as your receipt diredts, then turn your difli or falver upon the top of your bafon, and turn your bafon iipfide dowi^. When you make flummery, always obferve to have it pretty thick, and your moulds wet in cold water before you put in your flumrnery, or your jelly will fettle to the bottom, and the cream fwim at the top, fo that it will look to be two different colours. If you make cuflards, do not let them boil after the yolks are in, but flir them all one way, and keep them of a good heat till they be thick enough, and the rawnefs of the eggs is gone off,^ When you make whips or fyllabubs, raife your froth with a chocolate mill, and lay it upon a fleve to drain, it will be much prettier, and will lie upon your glafles, without mixing with your wine or running down the fldes of your glafles; and when you have made any of the befoje mentioned things, keep them in a cool 2 airyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.' 187 airy place, for a clofe place will give them a bad talle, and foon fpoil them. To fpin a Silver Web for covering SweeTt- , Meats. TAKE a quarter of a pound of treble-refined fugar, in one lump, and fet it before a moderate fire on the middle of a filver falver, or pewter plate, fet it a little aflant, and when it begins to run like clear water to the edge of the pla.te or falver, have ready a tin cover, or china bowl fet on a ftool, with the mouth downward, clofe to your fugar, that it may not cool by carrying too far, then take a clean knife, and take up as much of the fyrup as the point of the knife will hold, and a fine thread will come from the point, which you muJft draw as quick as poflible back- wards and forwards and alfo round the mould, as long as it will fpin from the knife 5 be very' careful you do not drop the fyrup on the web, if you do it will fpoil it, then dip your knife into the fyrup again, and take up more, and fo keep fpinning till your fugar is done, or your web is thick enough i be fure you do not let the knife touch the lump on the plate that is not melted, it will make it brittle, and not fpin at all, if your fugar is fpent before your web is done, put frefli fugar on a clean plate or falver, and do not fpin from the fame plate again j if you do not want the web to cover the fweetmeats immediately, fet it in a deep pewter difh, and cover it with a tin cover, and lay a cloth over it, to prevent the air from getting to it, and fet it before the fire (it requires to be kept warm, or it will fall) when youri8S THE EXPERIENCED your dinner or fupper is diihed, have ready a •plate or didi the fize of your web, filled with different coloured fweetmeats, and fet your web over it. It is pretty for a middle, where the,difhes are few, or corner where the number is large.. To fptn a Gold Web for covering Sweet- Meats. BEAT four ounces of treble-refined fugar in a marble mortar, and fift it through a hair lieve, then put it in a filver or brafs ladle, but filver 'inakes the colour better, fet it over a chafins:- difh of charcoal, that is burnt clear, and fet it on a table, and turn a tin cover or china bowl upfide down upon the fame table, and when your fugar is melted, it will be of a gold colour, take •your ladle off' the fire, and begin to fpin it with a knife, the fame way as the filver web ; when the fugar begins to cool and fet, put it over the fire to warm, and fpin it as before, but do not •warm it too often, it will turn the fugar a bad colour j if you have not enough fugar, clean the ladle before you put in more, and fpin it till your web is thick enough, then take it off and fet it over the fweetmeats, as you did the 'filver web. make Gum Paste for D.esert Baskets or Covers. TAKE one ounce of gum dragon, deep it in a tea-cupful of cold water all night, the next morning have ready a pound of treble-refined fugar, beat and fift it through a filk fieve, rub your gum through a hair lieve, then mix yourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 189 - fugar and gum together with a ftrong hand, and in working it will become as white as fnow; then take a little fine hair potvder, and make it into a very ftifF pafte, and cut it into bafkets, or crocrans, fwans, or any kind of mould or figure you pleafe ; dry it in a very cool ftove or oven, or before the fire, and it will be quite white and'hard and fit for ufe, either to cover fweetmeats or to fet off a defert. Ti? make a Chinese Temple or Obelisk. TAKE four ounces of fine flour, half an ounce of butter, one ounce of fine fugar, boil the fugar and butter in a little water, when it is cold beat an egg and put to the water, fugar, and butter, mix it with the flour, and make it into a very Riff pafte, then roll it as thin as poflible, have a fet of tins the form of a temple, and put the pafte upon them, and cut it in what form you pleafe, upon the feparate parts of your tins, keeping them feparate till baked, but take care to have the pafte exadtly the fize of the tins ; when you have cut all the parts, bake them in a flow oven, when cold take them out of the tins and join the parts with ftrong ifinglafs and water with a camel’s-hair brufti, and fet them one upon the other, and the forms of the tin moulds will diredt you ^ if you cut it neat, and the pafte be rolled very thin, it is a beautiful corner for a large table j if you have obelifk moulds you may make them the fame w’ay for an oppofite corner. Take care to make the pillars ftronger than the l:op, fo as to bear the weight j you may cut the form190 THE EXPERIENCED form of covers with this parte for wet or dry fweetineats, or creams for fupper dirties. To make a Desert of Spun Sugar. Spin two large webs, and turn one upon the other to form a globe, and put in the infide of them a few fprigs of fmall flowers and myrtle, and fpin a little more round to bind them toge- ther, and fet them covered clofe up before the Are. then fpin two more on a leffer bowl and put in a fprig of myrtle, and a few fmall flowers, and bind them as before, fet them by, and fpin two more lefs than the lart, and put in a few flowers, bind them and fet them by, then fpin twelve couple on tea-cups of three different fizes in proportion to the globes, to reprefent baflcets, and bind them two and two as the globes with fpun fugai'i fet the globes on a filver falver, one upon another, the largeft at the bottom, and fmallert at the top ; when you have fixed the globes, run two fmall wires through the middle of the largert globes, acrofs each other; then take a large darning needle and filk, and run it through the middle of the largert bafkets, crofs it at the bottom, and bring it up to the top, and make a loop to hang them on the wire, and do fo with the rert of your bafkets, hang the largert: baflcets on the wires, then put two more wires a little fliorter acrofs, through the middle of the fecond globes, and put the ends of the wires out betwixt the bafkets, and hang on the four mid- dle ones, then run two more wires fliorter than thelart, through the middleof the topglobes,and, hang the bafkets over the lowert; Itick a fprigENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, igt I of myrtle on the top of your globes, and fet it in ©n the middle of the table.—Obferve you do not put too much fugar down at a tiriie for a lilver ■ . web, becaufe the fugar will lofeits moifture, and | run in lumps inftead of drawing out 5 nor too 1 much in the ladle, 'for the gold web will lofe j its colour by heating too oft.—You may make the baikets a filver, and the globes a gold co- 1 lour, if you choofe them.—It is a pretty defert • ! for a grand table. I To make Calf’s Foot Jelly. PUT a gang of calves feet well cleaned into a pan, with hx quarts of water, and let them boil gently till reduced to two quarts, then take out the feet, fcum off the fat clean, and clear the jelly from the fediment, beat the whites - of five eggs to a froth, then add one pint of Lifbon, Madeira, or any pale made wine, if you choofe it, then fqueeze in the juice of three le- mons ; when your ftock is boiling, take three , fpoonfuls of it, and keep ftirring it with your wine and eggs to keep it from curdling, then add a little more flock, and flill keep flirring it, and then put it in the pan, and fweeten it with loaf fugar to your tafle, a glafs of French brandy will keep the jelly from turning blue in frofly air, put in the outer rind of two lemons, and let it / boil one minute all together, and pour it into a flannel bag, and let it run into a bafon, and keep pouring it back gently into the bag till it runs clear and bright, then fet your glaffes under the bag, and cover it left duft gets in.—If you would have the jelly for a fifli-pond, tranfparent pud^192 rut EXPERIENCED ding, or hen’s neft, to be turned out of the mould, boil half 'a pound of ifinglafs in a pint of water, till reduced to one quarter, and put it into the flock before it is refined. . To make Savoury Jelly. SPREAD fome flices of lean veal and ham, in the bottom of a flew-pan, with a carrot and turnip or two or three onions; cover it, and let it fweat on a flow fire, till it is as deep a brown as you would have it, then put to it a quart of very clear broth, fome whole pepper, mace, a very little ifinglafs, and fait to your tafle ; let this boil ten minutes, then ftrain it through a French ftrainer, feum off all the fat and put it to the whites of three eggs, run it feveral times through a jelly bag as you do other jellies. To make Savoury Jelly for cold Meat, BOIL beef and mutton to a fliff jelly, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, a blade or two of mace, and an onion, then beat the whites of four eggs, put it to the jelly, and beat it a little, then run it through a jelly bag, and when clear pour it on your meat or fowls in the difli you fend it up on. To make Hartshorn Jelly a fecond JVay, TAKE half a pound of hartfhorn and put to it two quarts of water, let it fland in the oven, all night, then ftrain it from the hartfhorn, and put to it a pint of rhenifti wine, the whites of ^ ^ fourfeN(5LlSH HOUSE-KEEPER. 193 four eggs, a little mace, the juice of thre^ lemons, and fugar to yourtafte; boil them to“ gether, and Rrain it through a jelly bag; when it is fine put it in your glafies for ufe. at. a.—If )^ou have no Rhenilh wine, white wine will do* To make PUT* one ounce of bitter and one of fweet almonds into a bafon, pour over them fome boiling water, to make the fkins come off, which is called blanching, flrip off the fkins, and . throw the kernels into cold water, then take them out, aiid beat then! ill a marble mortar, with a little rofe water to keep them from oil- ing, when they are beat, put them into a pint of calf’s foot flock, fet it over the fire, and fweeten it to your taflc with loaf fugar, as foon as it, boils flrain it through a piece of mufliii or gaufe, when a little cold put it into a pint of thick cream, and keep flirring it often till it grows thick and cold, wet your moulds in cold water, and pour in the flummery, let it Hand five or fix hours at leafl before you turn them out; if you make the flummery fliff, and wet the moulds, it will turn out without’putting it into warm water, for water takes off the figures of the mould, and makes the flummery look dull.—N. B, Be careful to keep flirring it till cold, or it will run in lumps when you turn it out of the mould. To O194 the experienced To make Colouring for Flummery and Jellies. , TAKE two penny-worth of cochineal, bruife it with the blade of a knife, and put it into half a tea-cupful of the beft French brandy, and let it Rand a quarter of an hour j filter it through a fine cloth, and put in as much as will make the jelly or flummery a fine pink; if yellow, take a little fafiron, and tie it in a rag, dilTolve it in cold water; if green, take fome fpinage, boil it, take off the froth, and mix it with the jelly ; -if white, put in fome cream. To make a Fish-Pond. FILL four large fifli moulds with flummery, and fix fmall ones, take a china bowl, and put in half a pint of fliff clear calf’s foot jelly, let it Rand till cold, then lay two of the fmall fiflies on the jelly, the right fide down, put in half a pint more jelly, let it Rand till cold, then lay in the four fmall filhes acrofs one another, that when you turn the bowl upfide down the heads and tails may be feen, then almoR fill your bowl with jelly, and let it Rand till cold, then lay in the jelly four large fiflies, and fill the ba- fon quite full with jelly, and let it Rand till the next day; when you want to ufe it, fet your bowl to the brim in hot water for one minute, take care that you do not let the water go into the bafon, lay your plate on the top of the ba- fon, and turn it upfide down, if you want it for the middle, turn it out upon a fRver; be fure you make your jelly very Riff and clear. , ,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 195 To make Nest. TAKE three or five of tUe fmalleft 'pullet eggs you can get, fill them with flummery, and when they are fliff and cold peel off the (hells, pare off the rinds of two lemons very thin, and boil them in fug^r and water, to take off the bitternefs, when they are cold, cut them in Ion? (hreds to imitate draws, then fill a bafon one third full of fhiff calf’s foot jelly, and let it hand till cold, then lay in the (hred of the le- mons, in a ring about two inches high in the middle of your bafon, drew a few corns of fago to look like barley, fill the bafon to the hefght of the peel, and let it dand till cold, then lay your eggs of flummery in the middle of the ring, that the draw may be feen round, fill the bafon quite full of jelly, and let it dand, and turn it out the fame way as the fi(h-pond. To make Blanc-mange of Isinglass. ‘ BOIL one ounce of ifinglafs in a quart of water till it is reduced to a pint, then put in the whites of four eggs, with two fpoonfuls of rice water, to keep the eggs from poaching, and fugar to your fade, and run it through a jelly- bag, then put to it two ounces of fweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, give them a fcald in your jelly, and put them through a hair fieve, put it in a China bowl, the next day turn it out, and dick it all over with almonds, blanched and cut lengthways: garnifli with green leaves or flowers. O s GREEItTHE EXPERIENCED J96 I Green Blanc-mange of Isinglass. DISSOLVE your ifinglafs, and put to it two ounces of fweet and two ounces of bitter al- monds, with as much juice of fpinage as will make it green, and a fpoonful of French brandy, fet it over a Rove fire till it is almoft ready to boil, then ftrain it through a gauze fieve, when it grows thick, put it into a lemon mould, and the next day turn it out—garnilh it with red and white flowers. • Clear Blanc-mange. i TAKE a quart of flrong calf’s foot jelly, fkim oft'the fat and drain it, beat the whites of four eggs, and put them to your jelly, fet it over the fire, and keep ftirring it till it boils, then pour it into a jelly bag, and run it through feveral times till it is clear, beat one ounce of fweet almonds, and one of bitter, to a pafte, with a fpoonful of rofe water fqueezed through a cloth, then mix* it with the jelly, and three fpoonfuls of very good cream, fet it over the fire again, and keep ftirring it till it is almoft boiling, then pour it into a bowl, and ftir it very often till it is almoft cold, then wet your moulds and fill them. Yellow Flummery. / TAKE two ounces of ifinglafs, beat It and open it, put it into a bowl, and pour a pint of boiling water upon it, cover it up till almoft cold, and add a pint of white wine, the juice ofENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 197 of two lemons, with the rind of one, the yolks of eight eggs beat well, fweeten it to your tafte» put it in a toffing-pan and keep hirring it, when it boils ftrain it through a fine fieve, when al- mofi: cold, put it into cups and moulds^ A ^ood Green. LAY an ounce of gambouge in a quarter of a pint of water, put an ounce and a half of good Rone blue in a little water, when they are both difiblved, mix them together, add a quarter of ^ a pint more water, and a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, boil it a little, then put it into a galli- pot, cover it clofe and it will keep for years; be careful not to make it too deep a green, for a very little will do at a tithe. \ Fruit zVz Jelly. PUT half a pint of clear ftiff calf’s foot jelly into abafon, when it is fet and fliff lay in three fine ripe peaches, and a bunch of grapes with the ftaiks up, put a few vine leaves over them, then fill up your bowl with jelly, and let it ftand till the next day; then fet your bafon to the brim in hot water, and as foon as you find it leaves the bafon, lay your di(h over it, and turn your jelly caretully upon it—garnifii with flowers. Green Melon in Flummery. MAKE a little fiiff flummery, with a good deal of bitter almonds in it, add to it it as much juice uf Ipinage as. will make it a fine pale green, O 3 whenipS the experienced when it is as thick as good cream wet your me- ]6n mould and put it in, then put a pint of clear calf’s foot jelly into a large bafon, and let them Rand till the next day, then turn out your me- lon, and lay it the right fide down in the mid- dle of your bafon of jelly; then fill up your bafon with jelly that is beginning to fet, let it Rand all night, and turn it out the fame way as the fruit in jelly: make a garland of flowers, and put it in your jelly.—It is a pretty dilh for middle at fupper, or corner for a fecond courfe at dinner. $ Gilded Fish m Jelly. MAKE a little clear blanc-mange as is directed in the receipt, then fill two large fiRi moulds with it, and when it is cold turn it out, and gild them with gold leaf, or Rrew them over with gold and filver bran mixed, then lay them on a foup difii, and fill it with clear thin calf’s foot jelly, it muR be fo thin as they will fwim in it; ifivou have no jelly, LiR)on wine, or any kind of pale made wines will do. Hen and Chickens in Jelly, MAKE fome flummery with a deal of fweet almonds in it, colour a little of it brown with chocolate, and put i" in a mould the fliape of a hen; then colour fome more flummery with the yolk of a hard egg beat as fine as poflible, leave part of your flummery white, then fill themoulds of feven chickens, three with white flummery, and three with yellow, and one the colour of the hen ;ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER; 199. hen; when they are cold turn them into a deep difh ; put under and round them lemon peel, boiled tender and cut like ftraw, th?n put a little clear calf’s foot jelly under them, to keep them in their places, and let it ftand till it is ftiff, then frll up your difh with more jelly.—^They are ^ pretty decoration for a grand table Ti? make a Transparent Pudding. MAKE your calf's foot jelly very ftifF, and when it is quite fine put a gill into a china ba- fon, let it ftand till it is quite‘fet; blanch a few Jordan Almonds, cut them and a few jar raifins lengthways, cut a little citron and candied lemon in little thin flices, ftick them all over the jelly, and throw in a few currants, then pour more jelly on till it is an inch higher; when your jelly is fet, ftick in your almonds, raifins, citron, and candied lemon, with a few currants ftrewed in, then more jelly as before, then more almonds, raifins, citron, and lemon in layers, till your bafon is full; let it ftand all night, and turn it out the fame way as the fifh-pond. To make a Desert Island. TAKE a lump of pafte, and form it into a rock three inches broad at the top, colour it, and fet it in the middle of a deep China difh, and fet a call figure on it, with a crow on its head, and a knot of rock candy at the feet; then make a roll of pafte an inch thick, and ftick it on the inner edge of the difli, two parts round, and cut eight pieces of eringo roots, about three inches O 4 long. /?0Q THE EXPERIENCED Ipng, and fix them upright to the roll of pafte on' the edge; make gravel walks of fhot comfits^ from the middle of the end of the difh, and fet fmall figures in them, roll out fome pafte, and cut it open like Chinefe rails; bake it, and fix it on either fide of one of the gravel walks with gum, have ready a web of fpun fugar, and fet it on the pillars of eringo root, and cut part of the web off, to form an entrance where the Chinefe rails are.—-It is a pretty middle difli for a fecond courfe at a grand table, or a wedding fupper, only fet two crowned figures oti the mount inftead of one. 1^0 make a YhOATiHG Island. GRATE the yellow rind of a large lemon into a quart of cream, put in a large glafs of Madeira wine, make it pretty fweet with loaf fugar, mill it with a chocolate mill to a ffrong froth, take it off'as it rifeSj, then lay it upon a fieve to drain all night, then take a deep glafs difh, and lay in your froth, with a Naples bifcuit in the middle of it, then beat the white of an egg to a ffrong froth, and roll a fprig of myrtle in it to imitate fnow, ffickit in the Naples bifcuit, then lay all over your froth currant jelly cut in very thin flices, pour over it very fine ffrong calf's foot jelly, when it grows thick lay it all ' over, till it looks like a glafs, and your diffi is full to the brim ; let it ffand till it is quite cold and ffiff, then lay on rock candied fweet-meats upon the top of your jelly, and ffieep and fwans to pick* at the myrtle; ffick green fprigs in two orENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 201 or three places on the top of your jelly, amongft your Ihapes j it looks very pretty in the middle of a table for fupper. You muft not put the lhapes on the jelly till you are going to fend it to the table, fo make a Floating Island afecondWay, TAKE calf’s foot jelly that is fet, break it a little, but not too much, for it will make it frothy, and prevent it from looking clear, have ready a middle fized turnep, and rub it over with gum'water, or the white of an egg, then flrew it thick over with green (hot comfits, and ftick on the top of it a fprig of myrtle, or any other pretty green fprig, then put your broken jelly round it, fet Iheep or fwans upon your jelly, with either a green leaf, or a knot of apple pafte under them, to keep the jelly from difiblving ; ‘ there are fheep and fwans made for that purpofe, you may put in fnakes, or any wild animals of the fame fort. I- \ T(? ^ Rocky Island. MAKE a little Riff flummery, and put it into five fifli moulds, wet them before you put it in, ’ when it is Riff, turn it out, and gild them with gold leaf, then take a deep China diRi, fill it near full of clear calf’s foot jelly, and let it Rand till it is fet, then lay on your fiRies, and a few Rices of red currant jelly cut very thin round them, then ralp a Imall French roll, and fub it over with the white of an egg, anci Rrew /202 EXPERIENCED all over it filver bran and glitter mixed together, flick a fprig of myrtle in it, and put it into the middle of your dilh, beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, then hang it on your fprig of myrtle like fnow, and fill your difh to the brim with clear jelly; when you fend it to table, put lambs and ducks upon your jelly, with cither green leaves or mofs under them, with their heads towards the myrtle. To make Moonshine. I TAKE the (hapes of half a moon, and five or feven ftars, wet them, and fill them with flum- mery, let them hand till they are cold, then turn them into a deep China difh, and pour lemon cream round them, made thus ; Take a pint of fpring water, put to it the juice of three lemons, end the yellow rind of one lemon, the whites of five eggs well beaten, and four ounces of loaf fugar, then fetit over a flow fire, and flir it one way till it looks white and thick, if you let it boil it will curdle, then ffcrain it through a hair fieve, and let it fland till it is cold, beat the yolks of five eggs, mix them with your whites, fet them over the fire, and keep ftirring it till it is almofl: ready to boil, then pour it into a bafon ; when it is cold pour it among your moon and flars : garnifli with flowers.—It is a proper difli for a fecond courfe, either for dinner or fupper. To make Moon and Stars in Jelly. TAKE a deep China difh, turn the mould of a half moon, and feven ftars, with the bottom fideENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 20$ Tide .upward in the difli, lay a weight upon every mould to keep them down, then make fomc flummery, and fill your difh with it; when it is cold and flifF, take your moulds carefully out„ and fill the vacancy with clear calFs foot jelly ; you may colour your flummery with cochineal and chocolate to make it look like the fky, and your moon and ftars will fhow more clear: gar- nifh with rock candy fweet meats.—It is a pret- ty corner difli, or a proper decoration for a grand table. < make Eggs ajid Bacon in Flummejiy. TAKE a pint of ftiff flummery, and make part of it a pretty pink colour with the colour- ing for the flummery, dip a potting-pot in cold water, and pour in red flummery the thicknefs of a crown niece, then the fame of white tlum- mery, and another of red, and twice the thick- nefs of white flummery at the top; one layer muft be ftiff and cold before you pour on ano- ther, then take five tea-cups, and put a large fpoonful of white flummery into each tea-cup, and let them Hand all night, then turn your flummery out of your potting pots on the back of a plate, with cold water, cut your flum- mery into thin flices; and lay it on a China difn, then turn your flummery out of the cups on the difh, and take a bit out of the top of every one, and lay in half a preferved apri- cot; it willconfine the fyrup from difcolouring the flummery, and make it like the yolk of a poached204 iTHE EXPERIENCED poached egg; garnifh with flowers.—It is a pret> ty corner difli for dinner, or fide for fupper. Solomon’s Temple m Flummery. MAKE a quart of fliff flummery, divide it it into three parts, make one part a pretty thick ' colour, with a little cochineal bruifed fine, and ' Reeped in French brandy, fcrape one ounce of chocolate very fine, diflblve it in a little flrong coffee, and mix it with another part of your flummery, to make it a light ftone colour, the lafl: part muff be white, then whet your temple mowld, and ffii it in a pot to fland even, then fill tlie top of the temple with red flummery for the ffeps, and the four points with white, then fill it up with chocolate flummery; let it ftand till the next day, then loofen it round with a pin, and (hake it loofe very gently, butdonot dipyour mould in warm water, it will take off theglofs, and fpoil the colour ; when you turn it out flick a Imall fprig or a flower ffalk, down from the top of every point, it will flrengthen them, and make it look pretty, lay round it rock candy fweet-meats.—it is proper foi* a corner difli fo? a large table. Oatmeal Flummery, TAKE a pint of bruifed groats, and put three pints of fair water to them early in the morn- ing, and let it fland till noon, then pour all the water oft', and put in the fame quantity of water as before upon them, ffir it well, and let it fland, till four o’clock, then run it through a fieve or cloth.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. ‘28^ cloth, then boil it, and keep ftirripg it all the while, put in a fpoonful of water now and then as, it boils, when it begins to thicken drop a little on a plate ; when it leaves the plate it is enough : put it in glalTes to turn out. ^0 ?nake Cribbage Cards in Flummery. FILL five fquare tins the fize of a card with, very fliff flunamery, when you turn them out have ready a little cochineal diflblved in brandy, and ftrain it through a muflin rag, then take a camel’s hair pencil, and make hearts and dia- monds With your cochineal, then rub a little cochineal with a little eating oil upon a marble flab till it is very fine and bright, then make clubs and fpades; pour a little Lifbon wine into the difli, and fend it up. To make a Dish of Snojv. TAKE twelve large apples, put them in cold water, and fet them over a very flow fire, and when they are foltpour them upon a hair fieve, take off the fkin, and put the pulp into a bafon, then beat the whites of twelve eggs into a very flrong froth, beat and fift half a pound of double refined fugar, and ftrew it into the eggs, beat the pulp of your apples to a flrong froth, then beat them all together till they are like a fliff fnow, then lay it upon a China difh, and heap it up as high as you can, and fet round it green knots of pafle in imitation of Chinefe rails, flick a fprig of myrtle in the middle of the difh, and ferve it ^ pretty corner difh for a large table.THE EXPERIENCED 206 7^0 make Black Caps. TAKE fix large apples, and cut a flice off the. bloffom end, put them in a tin, and fet them in -a quick oven till they are brown, then wet them with rofe water, and grate a little fugar over them, and fet them in the oven again till they look bright, and very black, then take them out, and put them into a deep China difh or plate-, and pour round them thick cream cuftard, of white wine and lugar. To make Green Caps. TAKE codlings juR before they are ripe, green them as you would for preferving, then rub them over with a little oiled butter, grate double refined fugar over them, and fet them in the oven till they look bright, and fparkle like froft, then take them out, and put them into a deep China di(h, make a very fine cuftard, and pour it round them j Rick fingle flowers in every apple and ferve them up.—It is a pretty corner dilh for either dinner or fupper. ToJiew Pears. PARE the largeil; Rewing pears, and Rick a clove in the bloR'om end, then put them in a well tinned faucepan, with a new pewter fpoon in the middle, fill it with hard water, and fet it over a flow fire for three or four hours, till your pears are foft, and the water reduced to a fmall quantity, then put in as much loaf fugar as will make /ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 207 make it a thick fyrup, and give the pears a boil in it, then cut fome lemon peel like RrawS and hang them about your pears, and ferve them up with the fyrup in a deep dilh. To make Lemon Syllabubs. TO a pint of cream put a pound of double refined fugar, the juice of feven lemons, grate the rinds of two lemons into a pint of white wine, and half a pint of fack, then put them all into a deep pot, and whifk them for half an hour, put it into glaffes the night before you Want it: it is better for handing two or three days, but it will keep a week if required. To make Lemon Syllabubs afecond Way, PUT a pint of cream to a pint of white wine, then rub a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar upon the out rind of two lemons, till you have got out all the elfence, then put the fugar to the cream, and fqueeze in the juice of both lemons, let it hand for two hours, then mill them with a chocolate mill, to raife the froth, and take it off with a fpoon as it rifes, or it will make it heavy, lay it upon a hair fieve to drain, then fill your glaffes with the remainder, and lay on the froth as high as you can, let them hand all night and they will be clear at the bottom; fend them to the table upon a falver, with jellies. To make Solid Syllabubs. TAKE a quart of rich cream, and put in a pint of white wine, the juice of four lemons, and5oS THE EXPERIENCED and fugar to' your tafte, whip it up very wetl^ 'and take off the froth as it rifes, put it upon a 'hair fieve, and let it ftand till the next day in a cool place, fill your glafies better than half full with the thiiii then put on the froth, and heap it as high as you can ; the bottom will look dear, and keep feveral days4 - ' ’ To mdke'SJViii'P Syllabubs. TAKE a pint of thin cream, rub a lump of loaf fugaron theoutfide of the lemon,and fweeten it to your tafte, then put in the juice of a lemon, and aglafs of Madeira wine, or French brandy, mill it to a'froth with a chocolate mill, and take it off as it rifes, and lay it upon a hair fieve, then fill one half of your poffet glafles a little more than half full with white wine, and the other half of your glafies a little more than half full of red wine, then lay on your froth as high as you can, but.obferve that it is well drained on your fieve, or it will mix with your wine, and fpoil your fyllabubs. ' To make a Syllabub under the Cow. PUT a bottle of ftrong beer and a pint of cyder into a punch-bowl, grate in a fmall nut- meg, and fweeten it to your tafte; then milk as much milk from the cow as will make a ftrong froth, and the ale look clear, let it ftand an hour, then ftrew over it a few currants, well wafhed, picked, and plumped before the fire, then fend it to the table. , CHAP. \I ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 209 CHAP. vrr. Ohfervations upon Pr E3ERVING, f » WHEN yoii make any kind of jelly, take 'care you do not let any of the feeds from the.fruit fall into your jelly, nor fqueeze it too near, for that will prevent your jelly from being fo clear; pound your fugar, and let it dilfolve in the fyrup before you fet it o'n the fire* it makes the fcum rife well, and the jelly a better colour: it is a great fault to boil any kind of jellies too high, it makes them'of a dark colour; you muft never keep green fweetmeats in the firft fyrup longer than the receipt direds, left you fpoil their colour; you muft take the fame care with the oranges and lemons ; as to cherries, damfons, and moft fort of ftone fruit, put over them either mutton fuet rendered, or a board to keep them down, or they will rife out of the fyrup and fpoil the whole jar, by giving them a four bad tafte; obferve to keep all wet -fweetmeats in a dry cool place, for a wet damp place will make them mould, and a hot place will dry up the virtue, and make them candy; the beft diredion I can give, is to dip writing paper in brandy, and lay it clofe to your fweetmeats, tie them well down with white paper, and two folds of thick cap- paper to keep out the air, for nothing can be a greater fault than bad tying down, and leaving the pots open. PTHE EXPERIENCED 210 To I’d make Ora^g^ Jelly. TAKE half a pound of hartfhorn fhavings, and tlvo quarts of fpring water, let it boil till it be reduced to a quart, pour it clear off, let it Rand till it is cold, then take half a pint of fpring water, and the rind of three oranges pared very thin, and the juice of fix, let them Rand all night, Rrain them through a fine hair fieve, melt the jelly and pour the orange liquor to it, fweet- en it to your taRe with double refined fugar, put to it a blade or two of mace, four or five cloves, half a fmall nutmeg, and the rind of a lemon, beat the whites of five eggs to a froth, mix it well with your jelly, fet it over a clear fire, boil it three or four minutes, run it through your jelly bags feveral times till it is clear, and when you pour it into your bag, take great care you do not Riake it. To make Hartshorn Jelly. PUT two quarts of water into a clean pan, with half a pound of hartfliorn Riavings, let it fimm'er till near one half is reduced, Rrain it off, then put in the peel of four oranges, and two lemons pared very thin, boil them five minutes, put to it the juice of the before-mentioned le- mons and' oranges, with about ten ounces of double refined fugar, beat the whites of fix eggs to a froth, mix them carefully with your jelly, that you do not poach the eggs, juR let it boil np, and run it through a jelly bag till’it is clear..ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2ir To make Red Currant Jelly. GATHER your currants when they are dry and full ripe, ftrip them off the ftalks, put them in a large ftew-pot, tie the paper over them, and let them ftand an hour in a cool oven, flrain them through a cloth, and to every quart of juice add a pound and a half of loaf fugar, broken in , fmall lumps, ftir it gently over a clear fire till your fugar is melted, Ikim it well, let it boil pretty quick twenty minutes, pour it hot into your pots; if you let it ftand it will break the jelly, it will not fet fo well as when it is hot j put brandy papers over them, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. N. B. You may make jelly of half red and half white currants the fame way. To make Black Currant Jelly. GET your currants when they are ripe and dry, pick them off the ftalks, and put them in a large ftew-pot; to every ten quarts of currants put a quart of water, tie a paper over them, and fet them in a cool oven for two hours, then fqueezethem through a very thin cloth jto every quart of juice add a pound and a half of loaf* fugar broken in fmall pieces, ftir it gently till the fugar is melted j when it boils Ikim, it well, let it boil pretty quick for half an hour over a clear fire, then pour it into pots; put brandy papers over them, and keep them for ufe.^12 THE EXPERIENCED --J To make ApricoT Jam. PARE the ripeft apricots you can get, cut them thin, infuie them in an earthen pan till they are tender and dry; then to every pound and a half of apricots put a pound of double re- fined fugar, and three fpoonfuls of water; boil your fugar to a candy height, then put it upon your apricots, Rlr them over a flow fire till they look clear and thick, but do not let them boil, only fimmer; put them in glafles for ufe. I To make Red Raspberry Jam. GATHER your rafpberries when they are ripe and dry, pick them very carefully from the flalks and dead ones, crufla them in a bowl with a lilver or wooden fpoon, pewter is apt to turn them a purple colour ; as foon as you have cruflied them, ftrew in their own weight of loaf fugar, and half their weight of currant juice, baked and ftrained as for jelly, then fet them over a clear flow fire, boil them half an hour, fkim them well, and keep ftirring them at the time, then put them into pots or glaflTes with brandy papers over them and keep them for ufe.’—iV. B, As foon as you have got your ber- ries, flrew in your fugar, do not let them hand long before you boil them; it will preferve iheir flavour.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 213 To make White Raspberry Jam. GET your rafpberries dry and full ripe, crufh them fine, and ftrew in their own weight of loaf fugar, and half their weight of the juice of white currants, boil them half an hour over a clear flow fire, fkim them well, and put them into pots or glalfes, tie them down with brandy papers, and keep them dry for ufe.—N. B. Strew in your fugar as in the red rafpberry jam. To make Red Strawberry Jam. - GATHER the fcarlet ftrawberries very ripe, bruife them very fine, and put to them a little j uice of ftrawberries, beat and fift their weight in fugar, flrew it among them, and put them in the preferving pan, fet them over a clear flow fire, ' fldm them, and boil them twenty minutes, then put them in pots or glalfes for ufe. To mak^ Green Gooseberry Jam. TAKE the green vyalnut gpofeberries when they are full grown, but not ripe, cut them in two and pick out the feeds, then put them in a pan of water, green them as you do the goofe,ber- ries, in imitation of hops, and lay them on a fieve to drain, then beat them in a marble mor- tar^ with their weight in fugar, then take a quart of goofeberries, boil them to maflbi in a quart of water, then fqueese thern, and to every pint of liquor put a pound of fine loaf fugar, boil and fkini it, then put in you green goofeberries, P 3 boil214 the experienced boil them till they are very thick, clear, and a pretty green, then put them in glaffes for ufe, To make Black Currant Jam. GET your black currants when they are full ripe, pick them clear from the ftalks, and bruife them in a bowl with a wooden mallet, to every two pounds of currants put a pound and a half 0/ loaf fugar beat fine, put them into a preferv- ing pan, boil them full half an hour, fkim it and flir it all the time, then put it in the pots, and keep it for ufe. To preferve Red Currants in Bunches. STONE your currants, and tie fix or feven bunches together with a thread to a piece of fplit deal, about the length of your finger, weigh the currants, and put their weight of double refined fugar in your preferving pan, with a little water, and boil it till the fugar flies, then put the cur- rants in, and juft give them a boil up, and cover them till next day, then take them out, and either dry them or put them in glaffes, with the fyrup boiled up with a little of the juice of red currants; put brandy paper over them, and tic them clofe down with another paper, and fet- them in a dry place. Topreferve' B.ITE. Currants in Bunches. STONE your currants, and tie them in bunches as before,and put them in the preferving-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 215 pan with their weight of double refined fugar, beat and lifted fine,, let them ftand all night, then take fome pippens, pare, core, and boil them, but do not ftir the apples, only prefs them down with the back of your fpoon, when the water is ftrong of the apple, add to it the juice of a lemon, ftrain it through a jelly bag till it runs quite clear, to every pint of your liquor put a pound of double refined fugar, boil it up to a ftrong jelly, put it to your currants, and boil them till they look clear, cover them in the preferving-pan with paper till they are almoft cold, then put a bunch of currants in your glalfes, and fill it up with jelly; when they are cold, wet papers in brandy, and lay over them, tie .another on, and fet them in a dry place. To preferve Currants for Tarts. GET your currants when they are dry, and pick them 3 to every pound and a quarter of cur- rants, put a pound of fugarinto a preferving-pan, with as much juice of currants as will difiblve it, when it boils fidm it, and put in your cur- rants, and boil them till they are clear 3 put them into ajar, lay brandy paper over, tie them down, and keep them in a dry place. To preferve Cucumbers. TAKE fmall cucumbers and large ones that will cut into quarters, the greened: and mod; free from feeds you can get, put them in a dirong fait and water, in a ftrait mouth jar, with a cab- E 4 bage I2i6 the experienced To bage leaf to keep them down, tie a paper over them, fet them in a warm place till they are yellow, wafh them out, and let them over the hre in fre£h water, with a little fait in, and a frefh cabbage leal over them, cover the pan very clofe, but take care they do not boil; if they arc not a fine green, change your water (and it will help them) and make them hot, and cover them as before; when they are a good green, take them off the fire, let them ftand till they are cold, then cut the large«ones in quarters, take out the feeds and foft part, then put them in cold water, and let them ftand two days, but change the water twice each day to take out the fait, take a pound of fingle refined fugar, and half a pint of water, fet it over the fire; when you have Ikimmed it clear, put in the rind of a lemon, one ounce of ginger, with the outfide fcraped off: when your fyrup is pretty thick, take it off, and when it is cold, wipe the cu- cumbers dry, and put them in, boil the fyrup once in two or three days for three weeks, and ftrengthen the fyrup, if required, for the great- eft danger of fpoiling them is at.firft,,—The fyrup is to be quite cold when you put it to your cucumbers. To preferve Grapes in Brandy. TAKE fome clofe bunches of grapes, but not too ripe, either red or white, put them into ajar, with a quarter of a pound of fugar-candy, and fill the jar with common brandy, tie it clofe with a bladder, and fet them in a dry place, Morello cherries are done the fame way.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, iiyt "To preferve Kentish or Golden Pippins. BOIL the rind of an orange very tender, then lay it in water for two or three days, take a quart of golden pippins, pare, core, quarter, and boil them to a ifrong jelly, and run it through a jelly bag, then take twelve pippins, pare then:t and fcrape out the cores; put two pounds of loaf fugar into a ftew-pan with near a pint of water, when it boils Ildm it, and put in your pippins, with the orange rind in thin dices, let them boil fad: till the fugar is very thick and will almod: candy, then put in a pint of the pippin jelly, boil them fad till the jelly is clear, then fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, give it one boil, and put them into pots or glalTes with the orange peel. 'To p7’eferve Green Codlings that will keep all the Tear, TAKE codlings about the fize of a walnut, with the ftalks and a leaf or two on, put a hand- ful of vine leaves into a brafs pan of fpring wa- ter, then a lay of codlings, then vine leaves, do fo till the pan is full, cover it clofe that no Ream can get out, fet it on a dow fire; when they are foft take off the Ikins with a penknife, then put them in the fame water with the vine leaves; it mud: be quite cold or it will be apt to crack them, put a little roach allum, ^nd fet them over a very dow fire till they are green (which will be in three or four hours) then take themZit. THE EXPERIENCED them out and lay them on a fieve to drain.^ Make a good fyrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days, then put them in fmall jarsi put brandy paper over them, and keep them for ufe. ^0 preferve Green Apricots. GATHER your apricots before the ftones are hard, put them into a pan of hard water, with plenty of vine leaves, fet them over a flow fire till they are quite yellow, then take them out and rub them with a flannel and fait to take off the lint, put them into the pan to the fame water and leaves, cover them clofe, fet them a great diflance frdm the fire till they are a fine light green,then take them carefully up,pick out all the bad coloured and broken ones, boil the beft gently for two or three times in a thin fyrup, let them be quite cold every time; when they look plump and clear, make a fyrup of double refined fugar, but not too thick, give your apricots a gentle boil in it, then put them into pots or glaffes, dip paper in brandy, lay it over them, and keep them for ufe, then take all the ^roken* and bad coloured ones and boil them in the firft fyrup for tarts. ^0preferve Gooseberries green, -TAKE green walnut goofeberries when they, are full grown, and take out the feeds, put them' in cold water, cover them clofe with vine leaves, and fet thern over a flow fire; when they are hot takeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 219 take them off, and let them ftand, and when they are cold fet them on again till they are pretty green, then put them on a lieve to drain, ^ and have ready a fyrup made of a pound of double ; refined fugar, and half a pint of fpring water ; the fyrup is to be cold when the goofeberries are : put in, and boil them till they are clear, then fet them by for a day or two, then give them I two or three fcalds, and then put them into pots, ? or glafies for ufe. ^0prejerve Green Gooseberries in Imitation of Hops. ^TAKE the largeft green walnut goofeberries you can get, cut them at the ftalk end in four quarters, leave them whole at the bloffom end, then take out all the feeds, and put five or fix one in another, take a needleful of ftrong thread, with a large knot at the end, run the kneedle through the bunch of goofeberries, arid tie a knot to fallen them together (they refemble hops) and put cold fpring water in your pan, a large handful of vine leaves in the bottom, and three or four lays of goofeberries, with plenty of vine leaves between every lay, and over the top of your pan, cover it fo that no fleam can get out, and fet them on a flow fire , when they are fcald- ing hot take them off, and let them lland till they are cold, then fet them on again till they are a good green, then take them off and let them fland till they are quite cold, then / put j them in a fieve to drain, make a thin fyrup ; to < every pint of water put in a pint of common I loafjaao THE EXPERIENCED I loaf fugar, boil it and fkim it well: when It is about half cold, put in your goofeberries, and let them ftand till the next day, then give them one boil a day for three days, then make afyrup, to 'every pint of water, put in a pound of fine fugar, a nice of ginger, and a little lemon peel cut length- ways exceeding fine, bqil and Ikim it well, give ypur goofeberries, a boil in it; when they are cold put them into glafles or pots, lay papers dipped in brandy over them, tie them up, and keep them for ufe. • . ’[to prejerve Sprigs green. GATHER the fprigs of muftard when it i^ going to feed, put them in a pan of fpring water, with a great many vine leaves under and over them, put to them one ounce of roach allum, fet it over a gentle fire, when it is hot, take it off, and let it hand till it is quite cold, theri cover it very clofe, and hang it a great height .over a flow fire; when they are green, take out the fprigs, and lay them on a fieve to drain, then make a good fyrup, boil your fprigs in it once a day for three days, put them in, and keep them for ufe.—They are very pretty to flick in the middle of a preferved orange, or garnifh a fet of falvers.—You may preferve young peas when they are juft come into pod the fame way, to preferve Green Gage Plums. TAKE the fineft plums you can get juft be- fore they are ripe, put them in a pan with a lay of vine leaves at the bottom of your pan, then a lay of plums, do fo till your pan is almofh full, then fill it with water, fet them oh a flowENGLISH HOtiSE-KEEPER. 221 fire; when they are hot, and their fkins begin to rife, take them off, and take the (kins carefully off, put them on a lieve ,as you do them, then lay them in the fame water, with a lay of leaves betwixt, as you did at the firfl;, cover them very clofe fo that no fleam can get out, and hang them a great diflance from the fire till they are green, which will be five or fix hours at leaft, then take them carefully up, lay them on a hair fieve to drain, make a good fyrup, give them a gentle boil in it twice a day, for two days, take them out and put them into a fine clear fyrup ; put paper dipped in brandy over them, and keep them for ufe. ‘To preferve Walnuts black. TAKE the fmall kind of walnuts, put them in fait and water, change the water every day for nine days, then put them into a fieve,‘let them fland in the air until they begin to turn black, then put them into a jug, and pour boiling wa- ter over them, and let them fland till the next day, then put them in a fieve to drain, flick a clove into each end of your walnut, put them into a pan of boiling water, let them boil five minutes, then take them up; make a thin fyrup, fcald them in it three or four times a day till yoyir walnuts are black and bright, then make a thick fyrup with a few cloves and a lit- tle ginger cut in dices, fkimit well, put in your walnuts, boil them five or fix minutes, and then put them in your jar; wet your paper with brandy, lay it over them, and tie them down with222 THE EXPERIENCED with bladders. The firft year they are a littl«5 bitter, but the fecond year they will be very good. preferve Walnuts green. TAKE large French walnuts when they are a little larger than a good nutmeg, wrap every walnut in vine leaves, tie it round with a firing, then put them into a large quantity of fait and water, let them lie in it for three days, then put them in frefli fait and water, and let them lie in that for three days longer, then take them out, and lay a large quantity of vine leaves in the bottom of your pan, then a lay of walnuts, then - vine leaves, do fo till your pan is full, but take great care the walnuts do not touch one another ; fill your pan with hard water, with a little bit of roach allum, fet it over the fire till the water is very hot, but do not let it boil, take it off, let them (land in the water till it is quite cold, then fct them over the fire again; when 'they are green take the pan off the fire, and when the water is quite cold take out the walnuts, lay them on a fieve a good diflance from each other, have ready a thin fyrup boiled and fkimmed; when it is pretty cool put in your walnuts, let them ftand all night, the next day give them feveral fcalds, but do not let them boil, keep your preferving pan clofe covered, and when you fee that they look bright, and a pretty colour, have ready made a rich fyrup, of fine loaf fugar, with a few flices of ginger, and two or three blades of mace, fcald your walnuts in it, put them in fmall jars, with paper dipped in, brandy c overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 225 over them, tie them down with bladders, and keep them for ufe. preferve Walnuts white, TAKE the large French walnuts full grown, but not Ihelled, pare them till you fee the white appear, put them in fait and water as you do them, have ready boiling a large faucepan full of foft water, boil them in it five minutes, take them up, and lay them betwixt two cloths till you have made a thin fyrup, boil them gently in it for four or five minutes, then put them in a jar, flop them up clofe that no fteam can get out, if it does it will fpoil the colour, the next day boil them again, when they are cold> make a frefli thick fyrup, with two or three dices of ginger and a blade of mace, boil and Ikim it well, then give your walnuts a boil in it, and put them in glafs jars, with papers dipped in brandy laid over them, and tie bladders over them to keep out the air. make Orange Marmalade, TAKE the cleared: Seville oranges you can get, cut them in two, then takeout all the pulp and juice into a bafon, pick all the feeds and fkins out of it, boil the rinds in hard water till they are tender (change the water two or three times while they are boiling) then pound them in a marble mortar, add to it the juice and pulp, and put them in the preferving pan, with double its weight of loaf fugar, fet it over a flow fire, boil2^4 't'HE EXPERIENCEd i boil it a little more than half an hour, then put it into pots with brandy papers over them^ / ^omake Transparent Marmalade^ ■ TAKE very pale Seville oranges, cut them iii quarters, take out the pulp, and put it into a bafon, pick the fkins and feeds out, put thepeels in a little fait and water, let them ftand all night, then boil them in a good quantity of fpring water till they are tender, then cut them in very thin ilices, and put them to the pulp; to every pound of marmalade put a pound and a half of double refined fugar beaten fine, boil them toge- ther gently for twenty minutes; if it is not clear and tranfparent, boil it five or fix minutes longer, keep ftirring it gently all the time, and take care you do not break the dices ; when it is cold, put it into jelly or fweetmeat glafies, tie them down with brandy -papers over them.—• They are pretty for a defert of any kind. . ' I’d make Quince Marmalade. GET your quinces when they are full ripe, pare them and cut them into quarters, then take out the core, and put them into a faucepan that is well tinned, cover them with the parings, fill the faucepan near full of fpring water, cover it clofe and let them flew over a flow fire till they are foft, and of a pink colour, then pick out all your quinces from the parings, beat them to a pulp in a marble mortar, take their weight of fine loaf fugar, put as much water to it as wnll diflblve ity boil and Ikim it well, then put in your 4ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER: 225 your quinces and boil them gently three quarters of an hour, keep ftirring it all the time, or it will flick to the pan and burn ; when it is cold put it into flat fweetmeat pots, and tie it down with brandy paper. Apricot Marmalade. WHEN you preferve'your apricots, pick out all the bad ones, and thofe that are too ripe for keeping, boil them in the fyrup -till they will niafh, then beat them in a marble mortar to a pafle j take half their weight of loaf fugar, and put as much water to it as will diffolve it, boil f and fkim it well, boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup thick like a fine jelly, then put it into your fweetmeat glaffes, and keep theru for ufe* , Green Pine Apples, GET your pine apples before they are ripe,’ and lay them in flrong fait and water five days, then put a large handful of vine leaves in the bottom of a large faucepan, and put in your pine apples, fill your pan with vine leaves, then pour on the fait and water it was laid in, cover it up very clofe, and fet it over a flow fire, let it fland till it is a fine light green, have ready a thin fyrup, made of a quart of water and a pound of double refined fugar; when it is almofl cold put it into a deep jar, and put in the pine apple with the top on, let it fland a week, and take care that it is well covered with the fyrup, then226 THE experienced then boil your fyrup again, and pour it carefully into your jar, left you break the top of your pine apple, and let it ftand eight or ten weeks, and give the fyrup two or three boils to keep it from moulding, let your fyrup ftand till it is near cold, before you pour it on j when your pine apple looks quite full and green, take it out of the fyrup, and make a thick fyrup of three pounds of double refined fugar, with as much water as will dilTolve it, boil and ficim it well, put a few dices of white ginger in it; when it is near cold pour it upon your pine apple, tie it down with a bladder, and the pine apple will keep many years, and not flirink, but if you put it into thick fyrup at the firft, it will fhrink, for the ftrength of the fyrup draws out the juice and fpoils it. N. It is a great fault to put any kind of fruit that is preferved whole into thick fyrup at firft. To prefer^i^e Red Gooseberries. , TO every quart of rough red goofeberries, put a pound of loaf fugar, put your fugar into a preferving pan with as much water as will dif- Iblve it, boil and fkim it well, then put in your goofeberries, let them boil a little, and fet them by till the next day, then boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup thick, then put them into pots or glaftes, cover them with brandy papers, and keep them for ufe.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 227 T!o preferve Strawberries ni)hole. GET the fineft fcarlet flrawberries with their' ftalks on* before they are too ripe, then lay them feparately on a china difh, beat and lift twice their weight of double refined fugar, and ftrevr it over them, then take a few ripe fcarlet draw-* berries, crufli them, and put them into a jar, with their weight of double refined fugar beat fmall, cover them clofe, and let them Rand in a kettle of boiling water till they are fofr, and the fyrup is come out of them, then drain them through a muflin rag into a tofling pan, boil and Ikimit well, when it is cold put in your whole ftrawberries, and fet them over the fire till they are milk warm, then take them off, and let them ftand till they are quite cold, then fet them on again, and make them a little hotter, do fo fe- veral times till they look clear, but do not let them boil, it will fetch the ftalks off, when the ftrawberries are cold, put them into jelly glafies, with the ftalks downwards, and fill up youf glafies with the fyrup; tie them down with brandy papers over them.—They are very pretty amonglt jellies and creams, and proper for fet- ting out a defert of any kind. \ preferve White Raspberries whole,. GET your rafpberries when they are turning white, with the fialks on about an inch long* lay them fingle on a difh, beat and fitt th^ir Vv'cight of double refined fugar, 'drew it oVer 0^2 them,228 THE EXPERIENCED- them, to every quart of rafpberries take a quart of white currant juice, put to it its weight of double refined fugar, boil and ficim it well, then put in your rafpberries and give them a foald, take them off and let them ftand for two hours, then fet them on again and make them a little hotter, do fo for two or three times, till they look clear, but do not let them boil, it will make the ftalks come off; when they are pretty cool, put them into jelly glalTes with the fialks down, and keep them for ufe.—N. B. You may pre- ferve red rafpberries the fame way, only take red currant juice inftead of white. To preferve Morello Cherries. GET-your cherries when they are full ripe, take out the ftalks and prick them with a pin 5 to every two pounds of cherries put a pound and a half of loaf fugar, beat part of your fugar and ftrew it over them^ let them ftand all night, dif- folve the reft of your fugar in half a pint of the juice of currants, fet it over a flow fire, and put in the cherries with the fugar, and give them a gerltle fcald, let them ftand all night again, and give them another fcald, then take them care- fully out, and boil your fyrup till it is thick, then pour it upon your cherries, if you find it be too thin boil it again. To prefer’ve Barberries in Bunches, TAKE the female barberries, pick out all the largeft bunches, then pick the reft from the ftalks, put tliem in as much water as will make a fy-; ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.' 22) i a fyrup of your bunches, boil them till they are , foft, then ftrain them through a fieve; to every pint of the juice put a pound and a half of loaf fugar, boil and Ikim it well, and to every pint of fyrup put half a pound of barberries in bunches, boil them till they look very fine and clear, then put them carefully into pots and : glafies ; tie brandy papers over, and keep them ■ for ufe. ^ Barberries Tarts. i . PICK the female barberries clean from the i’ Ralks, then take their weight in loaf fugar, put ; them in a jar and fet them in a kettle of boiling f water till the fugar is melted, and the barberries quite foft, the next day put them in a pre- i ferving.pan, and boil them fifteen minutes, then put them in jars, and keep them in a dry cool it place. * ^0 prejerve Damsons, ^ '> TAKE the fmall long damfons, pick off the ffalks, and prick them with a pin, then put \ them into a deep pot, with half their weight of ^ loaf fugar pounded, fet them in a moderate ■j oven till they are foft, then take them off, and ■j give the fyrup a boil, and pour it upon them, do fo two or three times, then take them' care- J fully out, and put them into the jars you intend •. to keep them in, and pour over them rendered mutton fuet; tie a bladder over them and keep them for ufe in a very cool place. CL3 ' TaSB.30 THE EXPERIENCED ‘To prefern)e Magnum Bonum Plums. TAKE the large yellow plums, put them in a pan full of fpring water, fet them over a flow Are, keep putting them down with a fpoon till you find the flcin will come off, then take them up and peel the flein off' with a penknife, put them in a fine thin fyrup and give them a gentle boil, then take them off, and turn them pretty often in the fyrup, or the outfide will turn brown; when they are quite cold, fet them over the fire again, let them boil five or fix minutes^, then take them off and turn them very often in the fyrup till they are near cold, then take them out and lay them feparately on a flat china difli, firain the fyrup through a muflin rag, add to it the weight of the plums of fine loaf fugar, boil and fkim it veiy well, then put in your plums, boil them till they look clear, then put them carefully into jars or glaffes, coven them well with the fyrup, or they will loofe their colour, put brandy papers and ^ bladder over them. ffo Wine Sours. TAfvE the finefl: wine fours you can get, pick off the (talks, run down the feam with a pin only fkin deep, then take half their weight of loaf fugar pounded, and lay it betwixt youf plums in layers till your jar is full, fet them in a kettle of boding water till they are foft, then drain the fyrup from them, and give it a boil, and pour it op them, dofo for fcveral times, tillENG'LISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 23c vou fee the (kin look hard and the plums clear, let them ftand a week, then take them out one by one, and puf them into glades, jars, or pots, give your fyrup a boil, if you have not fyrup enough, boil a little clarified fugar with your fyrup and fill up your glafies, jars, or pots, with if, and put brandy papers over, and tie a bladder over them to keep out the air, or they will lofe their colour and grow a purple. They are pretty with either fteeple cream, any kind of fiummeries, or upder a filver web. ‘To preferve Apricots. PARE your apricots, and thrufi; out the Rones with a feewer, to every pound of apricots put a pound of loaf fugar, flrew part of it over them, and let thepi ftand till the next day, then give them a gentle boil three or four different times, let them go cold betwixt every time; take them out of the fyrup one by one, the laft time as you boil them, fttim your fyrup well, boil it till it looks thick and clear, then pour it over your apricots, and put brandy papers over them. To preferve Peaches. GET the largeft peaches before they are too ripe, rub off the lint with a cloth, then run them down the feam with a pin, ikin deep, cover them with French brandy, tie a bladder over them, and let them ftand a week, then take them out, and make a ftrong fyrup for-them, hgil and ikim it well, put in your peaches, and boil232 the experienced boil them till they look clear, then take them- out, and put them into pots or glafles; mix the I'yrup with the brandy, when it is cold pour it on your peaches; tie them clofe down with a bladder that the air cannot get in, or the peaches will turn black. ^0 preferve Quinces whole. PARE your quinces very thin and round, that they may look like a fcrew, then put them into a well tinned faucepan, with a new pewter fpoon in the middle of them, and fill your fauce- pan with hard water, and lay the parings over your quinces, to keep them down j cover your faucepan fo clofe that the Ream cannot get out; fet them over a flow fire till they are foft, and a fine pink colour, let them Rand till they are cold, and make a good fyrup of double refined fugar, boil and fkim it well, then put in your quinces, let them boil ten minutes, take them oR', and let them Rand two or three hours, then boil them till the fyrup looks thick, and the quinces clear, then put them into deep jars, with brandy papers and leather over them; keep them in a dry place for ufe. N. B. You may pre- ferve quinces in quarters the fame way. \ To preferve Oranges carved. TAKE the faireR Seville oranges you can get, cut the rinds with a penknife in w^at form you pleafe, draw out the part of your peel as you cut them, and put them into fait and hard water.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 231 water, let them ftand for three days to take out the bitter, then boil them an hour in a large laucepan of frefli water, with fait in it, but^ do not cover them, it will fpoil the colour, then take them out of the fait and water, and boil them ten minutes in a thin fyrup for four or five days together, then put them into a deep jar, let them ftand two months, and then make a thick fyrup, and jufl give them a boil in it, let them ftand till tlie next day, then put them in your jar, with brandy papers over; tie them down with»a bladder, and keep them for ufe. N. B. You may preferve whole oranges with- out carving the fame way, only do not let them boil fo long, and keep them in a very thin fyrup at lirft, or it will make them fhrink and weather. '—Always obferve to put fait in the water for either oranges preferved, or any kind of orange chips. Yi? preferve Oranges In Jelly. TAKE Seville oranges, and cut a hole out at the ftalk as large as a ftxpence, and fcoop out the pulp quite clean, tie them feparately in muflin, and lay them in fpring water for two days, change the water twice a day, then'boil them in the muflin till tender upon a flow fire, as the water wafteth put hot water into the pan, and keep them covered, weigh the oranges before you fcoop them, and to every pound put two pounds of double refined fugar, and one pint of water, boil the fugar and water with the juice of the oranges to a fyrup, fliiin it very well, let it ftand234 the experienced Rand till cold, then put in the oranges and boil them half an hour, if they are not quite clear, boil them once a day for two or three days, pare and core fome green pippins, and boil them till the water is ftrong of the apple, but do not fUr the apples, only put them down in the water, with the back of a fpoon, ftrain the water through a jelly bag till quite clear, then to every pint of water, put one pound of double refined fugar, and the juice of a lemon Rrained fine, boil it up to a ftrong jelly, drain the oranges out of the fyrup, put them into glafs jars, or pots of the fize of an orange, with the holes upward, and pour the jelly over them, cover them with brandy papers, and tie them clofe down with bladders.—N. B. You may do lemons the fame way. ^ To preferve Lemons CARVE or pare your lemons very thin, and make a round hole on the top the fize of a fliiU Jing, takeout all the pulp and flcins, rub them with fait, and put them in fpring water as you do them, to prevent them from turning black, let them lie in for five or fix days, then boil them in frefli fait and water fifteen minutes, have ready made a thin fyrup of a quart of water, rnd a pound of loaf fugar, boil them in it five riiinutes, once a day, for four or five days, then put them in a large jar, let them (land for fi.'f or eight weeks, and it will make them look clear and plump, then take them out of that fyrup, or they will mould ; make a fyrup of tii'.e fugar, put as much water to it as will dif- 2 folveENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. fblve it, boil and fltim it,, then put in your lemons, and boil them gently till they are clear, then put them into ajar with brandy papers over? tie them clofe down, and keep them in a dry place for ufc. preferve Oranges with Marmalade. PARE your oranges as thin as you can, then cut a hole in the ftalk end, the fize of a fix- pence, take out all the pulp, then put your oranges in fait and water, boil them a little more than an hour, but do not cover them, it will turn them a bad colour, have ready made a fyrup of a pound of fine loaf fugar, with a pint of water, put in your oranges, boil them till they look clear, then pick out all the Ikjns and pippiqs out of your pulp, and cut one of your oranges into it, as thin as pofiible, and take its weight of double refined fugar, boil it in a clean toffing- pan over a flow clear fire, till it looks quite clear and tranfparent, when it is cold take your oranges out and fill them with your marmalade, and put on your top, and put them in your fyrup again, let them ftand for two months, then jTiake a fyrup of double refined fugar, with as much water as will diflblve it, boil and fldm it well, then give your oranges a boil in it j put brandy papers over, and tie them down with 4 bladder j they will keep for feveral years. ^THE EXPERIENCED *36 i To make Bullace Cheese. TAKE your bullace when they are jTulI ripe, put them into a pot, and to every quart of bul- lace put a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar beat fmall, bake them in a moderate oven till they are foft, then rub them through a hair heve; to every pound of pulp add half a pound of loaf fugar beat fine, then boil it an hour and a half over a flow fire, and keep flirring it all the time, then pour it into potting pots, and tie brandy ' papers over them, and keep them in a dry place i when it has flood a few months it will out out very bright and fine.—N. B. You may make floe cheefe the fame way. • ' ■ To make Eld'er Rob. * r 4 ' GATHER your elder berries when they are full ripe, pick them clean from the flalks, put them in large flew pots, and tie a paper over them, put them in a moderate oven, let them fland two hours, then take them out, and put them in a thin coarfe cloth and fqueeze out all the juice you can get, then put eight quarts into a well-tinned copper, fet it over a flow fire, let it boil till it be reduced to one quart, when it ^rows near done, keep flirting it to prevent its burning to the bottom, then put it into potting pots, let it fland tvyo or three days in the fun, then dip a paper in fweet oil the fize of your pot, and lay it on, tie it down with a bladder, and keep it in a very dry place for ufe. Tt 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.. 237 ^0 make Black Currant Rob. GET your currants when they are ripe, pich^, bake, 'and fqueeze them the fame as you did the, cider berries, then put hx quarts of the juice ' into a large toiling pan, boil" it over a flow fire, till it is pretty thick, keep ftirring it till it is reduced to one quart, pour it into flat pots, dry it, and tie it down the fame way as you did your cider rob. ToJlew Pippins ’whole. PARE and core your pippins and throw them Into fair water as you pare them, then take the weight of the fruit of double reflned fugar, and dilfolve it in a quart of water, then boil it up, and fcum it clean, then put in the fruit, let them flew gently till they are tender, and look clear, then take them out and fqueeze in the juice of a large lemon and let it boil up, fcum it and run it through ajelly bag upon the fruit; you may flick the pippins with candied oranges and lemons cut in thin flices, if you pleafe. I »». . '■ — ' C PI A P. IX. • I DireSHons'Drying and Candying. Before you candy any fort of fruit, pre-^- Terve them firfl, and dry them in a flove, ©r before the Are, till the fyrup is run out of therntHE E^tPERIENdEt) them, then boil your fugar, candy height, dip in the fruit, and lay them in difhes in your ftove till dry, then put them in boxes, and keep them ‘ fn a dry place. 7o make Apricot Pastr. PARE and ftone your apricots, boil them in water till they will mafhquitefmall, put a pound of double refined fugar in your preferving pan, with as much water as will diffolve it, and boil it to fugar again, take it off the ftove, and put in a pound of apricots, let it ftand till the fugar is melted, then make it Raiding hot, but do not let it boil, pour it into China difhes, or cups, iet them in a ftove, when they are ftiff enough to turn out, put them on glafs plates, turn them as you fee occafion till they are dry. Ti? make RaspberrV Paste. . MASH a quart of rafpberries, ftrain one half, and put the juice to the other half, boil them a quarter of an hour, put to them a pint of red currant juice, let them boil all together till your berries are enough, put a pound and a half of double refined fugar into a clean pan, with as much water as will diffolve it, and boil it to a fugar again, then put in your berries and juice, give them a fcald, and pour it into glalfes or plates, then put them into a ftove to dry, and turn them as you fee occafion.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 'To make Gooseberry Paste. take a pound of red goofeberries when they are full grown and turned, but not ripe, cut them in halves, pick out all the feeds, have ready a pint of currant juice, boil your goofeberries in it till they are tender, put a pound and a half of double refined fugar into your pan, with as much water as will diffolve it,and boil it to fugar again, then put all together and make it fcalding hot, but it muft not boil, pour it into plates or glafles, the thicknefs you like, then dry it in a ftove. To make Currant Paste either red or white, STRIP your currants, put a little juice to them to keep them from burning, boil them well and rub them through a hair fieve, then boil it a quarter of an hour: to a pint of juice put a pound and a half of double refined fugar, lifted, lliake in your fugar, when it is melted, pour it on plates, dry it as the other paftes, and turn it into what form you pleafe. To make Currant Clear Cake. STRIP and walh your currants, to four quarts of currants put one quart of water, boil them very well, then run it through a jelly bag, to a pint of jelly put a pound and a half of double refined fugar, pounded and lifted through a hair fieve, fet your jelly on the fire, when, it h.iS' juft boiled up, lhake in the fugar, ftir it weii, then fet it on the fire again, make il fcalding hut«40 the experienced hot to melt the fugar, but do not let it boif^ then pour it on clear cake glaffes or plates, when it is jellied, before it is candied, cut it in rounds or half rounds, this will not knot; and dry them the fame way as you did the apricot pafte. White currant clear cakes are made the fame way, but obferve, that as foon as the jelly is made, you muft put the fugar to it, or it will change the colour. To make Violet Cakes. TAKE the fineft violets you can get, pick off the leaves, beat the violets fine in a mortar, with the juice of a lemon, beat and lift twice their tveight of double refined fugar, put your fugar and violets into a filver fauce--pan, or tankard, fet it over a flow fire, keep ffirringit gently till ^11 your fugar is difiblvcd, if you let it boil it will difcolour your violets, drop them in china plates; when you take them off, put them in a ' box with paper betwixt every layer. To dry Cherries* TAKE Morello cherries, ftone them, and to every pound of cherries put a pound and a quar- ter of fine fugar, beat and fift it over your cher- ries, let them ftand all night, take them out of your fugar, and to every pound of fugar put two fpoonfuls of water, boil and feum it well, then put in your cherries, let your fugar boil over them, the next morning flrain them, and to every pound of the fyrup put half a pound more fugar, let it boil a little thicker, then put in yourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 241 your cherries, and let them boil gently, the next day ftrain theiHj and dry them in a Rove, and turn them every day. A fecond Way to dry Cherries. STONE a pound and a half of cherries, put them in a preferving pan, with a little water, when they are fcalding hot, put them in a lieve,' or on a cloth to dry* then put them in your pan again, beat and fift half a pound of double refined fugar, ftrew it betwixtevery lay of cherries, when it is melted fet them on the fire, and make them fcalding hot, let them hand till they are cold, do fo twice more, then drain them from the fy- rup, and lay them feparately to dry j dip theni in cold water, and dry them with a cloth, fet them in the hoc fun to dry as before, and keep them in a dry place till you want to ufe them^ To dry Green Gage Plums. MAKE a thin fyrup of half a pound of fingle refined fugar, flam it well, flit a pound of plums down the feam, and put them in the fyrup, keep them fcalding hot till they are tender, they mufl: be well covered with fyrup, or they will lofe their colour, let themfland all night, then make a rich fyrup j to a pound of double refined fu- gar put tw'o fpoonfuls of water, fldm it well, and boil it almofl; to a candy, when it is cold, drain your plums out of the firfl; fyrup, and put them in the thick fyrup, be fure let the fyrup cover them, fet them on the fire to fcald till they look clear, then put them in a china bowl, when they have flood a week take them out, and lay R them24.2, THE EXPERIENCED them on china dillies, dry them in a flove, and turn them once a day till they are dry.—If you would have them green, fcald them with vine leaves, the fame way as the green gages are done. To make Apricot Cakes. # ■ » • TAKE a pound of nice ripe apricots, fcald them, and as loon as you find the flcin will come olf, peel them and take out the Hones, beat them in a marble mortar to a pulp, boil half a pound, of double refined fugar, with a fpoonful of wa- ter, Ikim it exceeding well, then put in the pulp of your apricots, let them fimmer a quar- ter of an hour over a flow fire, flir it foftly all, the time, then pour it into fliallow flat glalTes, turn them out upon glafs plates^ put them in a. ftoye, and turn them once a day till they are dry. ' Ti? Almonds-. ‘ ' ‘ ■' TAKE two pounds of loaf fugar, two-pounds of almonds, put them in a flew-pan with a pint of water, fet them over a clear coal fire, let them boil till you hear the almonds crack, take them off and Hir them about till they are quite dry, then put them' in a 'wine fieve and fift all the ftrgar from them, put the fugar into the pan again with a little water, give it a'boil, put four fpoonfuls of fcraped cochineal to thefugar to colour it, put the almonds into the pan, keep Hirring them over the fire till they are quite dry, put them into a glafs and they will keep twelve months. 'To dry .Damson's. GET your daliifons when they are full ripe, fpread them on a coarfe cloth, fet them iii'a very coolENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 543I cool oven, let them ftand a day or two ; if they are not aS dry as a frefh prune, put them in an- other cool oven for a day or two longer, till they are pretty dry, then take them out, and lay them in a dry place, they will eat like frelh plums in the winter. candy Ginger. BEAT two pounds of fine loaf fugar, put one pound in a tolling pan, with as much water as will difiblve it, with one ounce of race ginger grated fine, ftir them well together over a very flow fire till the fugar begins to boil, then ftir in the other pound, and keep ftirring it till it grows thick, then take it off the fire, and drop it in cakes upon earthen dilhes, fet them in a warm place to dry, and they will look white, and be very hard and brittle. make Orange Chips. TAKE the bell Seville oranges, pare them aflant, a quarter of an inch broad, if you can ' keep the paring whole it looks much prettier, when you have pared them all, put them in fait and fpring water for a day or two, then boil them in a large quantity of fpring water till they are tender, then drain them on a fieve, have ready a thin fyrup, made of a quart of water, and a pound of fine fugar, boil them (a few at a time to keep them from breaking) till they look clear, then put them into a fyrup made of fine loaf fu- gar, with as much water as will difiblve it, and boil them to a candy height, when you take them up,lay them on fieves,and grate double refined fu- gar all over them,and put them in a fi:ove,or by the fire to dry, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. R 2244 the experienced To dry Currants in bunches. WHEN the currants are Roried and tied up in benches, to every pound of currants take a pound and a half of fugar, and to every pound offugar put half a pint of water, boil the fyrup very well, lay your currants in it, fet them on the fire, and let them juft boil, take them off, cover it cl’ofe with a paper, let them ftand till the next day, then make them^ fcalding hot, let them ftand for two or three days, with a paper clofe to them, then lay them on ea'rthen plates, and lift them well over with fugar, put them in a ftove to dry, the next day lay them on fieves, but do not turn them till the upper fide is dry, then turn them, and fift the other fide well with fugar j when they are quite dry, lay them be-- twixt papers. Ti? Apricots. TAKE a pound of apricots, pare and ftone them, put them in your toffing pan, pound and lift half a pound of double refined fugar, ftrew a little amongftthem, andlay the reft over them; let them fta'rtd twenty-four hours, turn them three or four times in the fyrup, then boil them pretty quick till they look clear, when they are cold take them out, and lay them on glaftes,’put them into a ftove, and turn them every half hour, the next day every hour, and after as you fee occafion. To make Lemon Drops. DIP a lump of treble refined loaf fugar in water, boil itftiffifti, take it off, rub it with the back of a filver fpoon to the fide of your pan, then grate in fome lemon-peel, boil it up, and • 5 dropENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 245 <irop it on paper j if you want it red put in a little cochineal. To make Lemon Drops afecondJVay, TAKE the juice of three frefh lemons ftrained fine, and mix it with a pound of treble refined fugar beaten and fifted through a lawn fieve, beat them together for an hour, it will make them white and bright, then drop them upon writing paper, and dry them before the fire or in the fun. They are a pretty ornament for a defert. To make Peppermint Drops to carry in the Pocket. TAKE one pound of treble refined fugar, beat it fine and fift it through a lawn fieve, then - mix it with the whites of two eggs, beat it to a thick froth, then add fixty drops of the oil of peppermint and beat them all well together, then with a tea-fpoon drop it upon fine cap paper, the fize of half a nutmeg, and put them upon the hearth to dry, the next day take them off, and they are fit for ufe. To make Raspberry or Currant Drops, TAKE the juice of rafpberries or red cur- rants, add as much treble refined fugar beaten and finely fifted as will make it into a thin pafte, drop them upon fine'cap paper with a tea-fpoon, dry them before the fire, the next day take them off, and keep them in aglafsjar, it will preferve the flavour. They are a great ornament to a defert. R 3846 THE EXPERIENCED ' 'To dry Peaches. PARE and , ftone the largefl Newington peaches, have ready a faucepan of boiling water, put in the peaches, let them boil till they are tender, lay them on a fieve to drain, then weigh them, and put them in the pan they were boiled in, and cover them with their weight of fugar, let them lie two or three hours, then boil them till they are clear, and the fyrup.pretty thick, let them ftand all night covered clofe, fcald them very well, then take them off to cool, then fet them on again till the peaches are tho- roughly hot; do this for three days, lay them on plates to dry, and turn them every day. ■ V To candy Angelica. TAKE it when young, cut it in lengths, cover it clofe, and boil it till it is tender, peel it, and put it in again, let it fimmer and boil till it is green, then take it up, and dry it with a cloth > to every pound of ftaiks put a pound of fugar put your ftaiks into an earthen pan, beat the. fugar and ftrew over them, let it ft;and two days.,, then boil it till it is clear and green, put it in a cullender to drain beat a pound of fugar to powder again, ftrew it on your angelica, lay it on plates to dry, and fet them in the oven after the pies are drawn,—^Three pounds and a half of fugar is enough to four pounds of ftaiks, ^ ^ I To candy Lemon or Orange Peel. CUT your lemons or oranges long-ways, and’ take out all the pulp, and put the rinds into a' ^ • prettyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. ^47 pretty ftrong fait and hard water fix days, then boil them in a large quantity of fprlng water till they are tender, then take them out md lay then% on a hair fieve to drain, then make a thin fyrup of fine loaf fugar, a pound to a quart of water j put in your peels and boil them half an hour, or till they look clear, have ready a thick fyrup made of fine loaf fugar, with as much water as will diffolve it, put in your peels, and boil them over a flow fire, till you fee the fyrup candy about the pan and peels, then take them out, and grate fine fugar all over them, lay them on a hair fieve to drain, and fet them in a Rove, or before the fire to dry, and keep them in a dry place for ufe.—N. B. Do not cover your fauce- pan when you boil either lemons or oranges. boil Sugar candy height. : PUT a pound of fugar into a. clean tolling pan, with half a pint of water, fet it over a very clear flow fire, take off the fcum. as it rifes, boil it till it looks fine and clear, then take out a lit- tle with a filverfpoon 5 when it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your fpoon, it is boiled high enough for any kind of fweetmeat, then boil your fyrup, and when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan,'it is candy height. N. B. It is a great fault to put any kind of fweetmeats into too thick a fyrup, efpecially at the firff, for it withers your fruit, and takes off both the beauty and flavour. R 4. CHAP.248^ the experienced CHAP. X. Obfervations upon Creams, Custards, and Cheese-cakes. WHEN you make any kind of creams an'd cuftards, take great care your toffing pan be well tinned, put a fpo.onful of water in it to prevent the cream from flicking to the bottom of your pan, then beat your yolks of eggs, and ftrain out the threads, and follow the diredions of your receipt. — As to cheefe-cakes, they fhould not be made long before you bake them, parti- cularly almond or lemon cheefe-cakes, for {land- ing makes them oil and grow fad, a moderate oven bakes them bell, if it is too hot it burns them and takes oiP the beauty, and a very flow oven makes them, fad and look black i make your cheefe-cakes up jufl when the oven is of a pros- per heat, and they will rife well and be of. a proper colour. To make Pistacijo Cream. TAKE half a pound of piflacho nuts, take out the kernels, beat them in a mortar with a fpoonful of brandy, put them into a toffing pan, with a pint of good cream, and the.yolks of two eggs beat fine, Ifir it gently over a very flow fire till it grows thick, then put it into a china foup plate, when it grows cold flick it all over with Imall pieces and ferve it up. To make Chocolate Cream. SCRAPE fine a quarter of a pound of the bed crhocolate, put to it as much water as will dif- folveEMGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 249 folye it, put it- in a marble mortar, beat it half an hour, put in as much fine fugar as will fweeten it and a pint and a half of cream, mill it, and as the froth rifes lay it on a fxeve, put the rer rnainder part of your cream in poifet glaffes, and lay the frothed cream upon them.-^It makes '4 pretty mixture upon a fet oF falvers. T’o mak^ Spanish Cream. DISSOLVE in a quarter of a pint of rofe water three quarters of an ounce of ifinglafs cut fmall, run it through a hair fieve, add to it the yolks of three eggs, beat and mixed with half a pint of cream, two forrel leaves, and fugar to your tafle, dip the difh in cold water before you put in the cream, then cut it out with a jigging iroi\, and lay it in rings round different coloured fweetmeats. >21? make Ice Cream, PARE, flone, and fcald twelve ripe apricots, beat them fine in a marble mortar, put to them fix ounces of double refined fugar, a pint of fcalding cream, work it through a hair fieve, put it into a tin that has a clofe cover, fet it in a tub of ice broken fmall, and a large quantity of fait put amongfi: it, when you fee your cream grow thick round the edges of your tin, ftir it, and let it in again till it grows quite thick, when your cream is all froze up, take it out of your tin, and put it into the mould you intend it to be turned out of, then put on the lid, and have ready another tub with ice and fait in as before, put your mould in the middle, and lay your ice under256 the experienced under and over it, let it Rand Four or five hours, dip your tin in warm v/ater when you turn it out; if it be fummer, you muft not turn it out till the moment you want it; you may ufe any Fort of fruit if you have not apricots, only ob- ferve to work it fine. ' To make Clotted Cream. PUT one tea-fpooh of earning into a quart of good cream, \vhen it comes to a curd break it very carefully with a filver fpoon, lay it upon a fieve to drain a little, put it into a china foup plate, pour over it fome good cream, with the juice of rafpberries, damfons, - or any kind of fruit to make it a fine pink colour, fweeten it to your tafle, and lay round it a few firawberry leaves.—It is proper for a middle at fupper, or a corner at dinner. 1 To tnake Hartshorn Cream. ■ TAKE four ounces of hartfhorn fhavings, boil them in three pints of water till it is reduced to half a pint, run it through a jelly bag, put to it a pint of cream, let it juft boil up, then put it into jelly glafles, let it ftand till it is cold, by dipping your glaffes into fcalding water it vyili flip out whole, then ftick them all over with dices of almonds cut length-ways : it eats well with white wine and fugar, like flummery. Ti? Ribband Cream. TAKE eight quarts of new milk, fet it on the fire, when it is ready to boil put in a quart of good cream, earn it, and pour it into a large bo.wl, let it ftand all night, then take oft the cream.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, cream, and lay it on a fieve to drain, cut it to the fize of your glalTes, and lay red, green, or co- loured fweetmeats between every layer of cream. To make Lemon Cream. ‘ TAKE a pint of fpring water, the rinds of two lemons pared very thin, and the juice of three, beat the whites of fix eggs very well, mix the whites with the water and lemon, put fugar to your tafte, then fet it over the fire, and keep ftirring it till it thickens, but do not let it boil, ifrain it through a cloth, beat the yolks of fix eggs, put it over the fire till it be quite thick, then put it into a bowl to cool, and put It in your glaifes. T^o make Steeple Cream with Wine Sour. TAKE one pint of firong clear calf’s-foot jelly, the yolks'of four hard eggs, pounded in a mortar exceeding fine, with the juice of a SeviUe'orange, and as much double refined fugar' as will make it fweet, when, your jelly, is warm put it in, and keep ftirring it till it is cold and grows as thick as cream, then put it into jelly glafies, the next day turn it out into a difh with preferved wine fours, flick a fprig of myrtle in the top of every cream, and ferv'e ’if up with flowers round it. Raspberry Cream. TAKE a quart of rafpberries, or rafpberry jam, rub it through a hair fieve to take out the. feeds, mix it well with your cream, put in as muchTHE EXPERIENCED much loaf fugar as will make it pleafant, then put it into a milk pot to raife a froth with a cho- colate mill; as your froth rifes take it off with a fpoon, lay it upon a hair fieve, when you have got what froth you have occafion for, put the remainder of your cream into a deep china difh or punch bowl, put your fr,othed cream upon it, as high as it will lie on, then flick a light flower in the middle and fend it up.—It is proper for a middle at fupper, or a corner at dinner, , . Lemon Cream Peel. BOIL a pint of cream, when it is half cold put in the yolks of four eggs, flir it till it is cold, then fet it over the fire, with four ounces of loaf fugar, a tea fpoonful of grated lemon peel, flir them till it is pretty hot, take it off the fire and put it in a bafou to cool, when it is cold put it in fweetmeat glaffes, lay pafle knots, or lemon peel cut like long ftraws over the tops of your glaffes,—It is proper to be put upon ^ bottom falver amongfl jellies and whips. Orange Cream, TAKE the juice of four Seville oranges, and the out-rind of one pared exceeding fine, put them into a toffing-pan with one pint of water, and eight ounces of fugar, beat the whites of five eggs, fet it over the fire, flir it one way till it grows thick and white, flrain it through a gauze fieve, flir it till it is cold, then beat the yolks of five eggs exceeding well, put it in your tofling . panI i j ENGLISH HOUSE-kEE;PER. •it! pan with the cream, ftir it over a very flow fire i till it is ready to boil, put it into a bafon to cooh 'J and ftir it till it is quite cold, then put it into I gla-flTes : fend it in upon a falver with whips ; and jellies. To Burnt Cream. I BOIL a pint of cream with fugar, and a lit- I tie lemon peel fhred fine, then beat the yolks of fix and the whites of four eggs feparately, when your cream is cooled, put in your eggs, with a fpoonful of orange flower water, and one of fine flour, fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it till it is thick, put it into a dilh ; when it is cold fift a quarter of a pound of fugar all over, hold a hot falamander over it till it is very brown, and looks like a glafs plate put over your cream. To make La Pompadour Cream. BEAT the whites of five eggs to a ftrong froth, put them into a tofling pan, with two fpoonfuls of orange flower water, two ounces of fugar, ftir it gently for three or four minutes, then pour it into your’ difh, and pour good melted butter over it, and fend it in hot. It is a pretty corner difh for a fecond courfe at dinner. \ t To make Tea Cream. 4 TO half a pint of milk put a quarter of an ounce of fine hyfon tea, boil them together, ftraia the leaves out, and put to the milk half a pint J»54 the experienced pint of cream, and two fpoonfuls of rennet fet it over fome hot embers in the difh you fend it to table in, and cover it with a tin plate j when it is thick it is enough. Garnilh with fw'eetnieats and fend it up. To make King William’s Cream. BEAT the whites of three eggs very well, then fqueeze out the juice of two large or three, fmall lemons-; take two ounces more than the weight of the juice of double refined fug.ar, ^nd mix it together with two oir three drops of orange flower water; and five or fix fpoonfuls of fair fpring water; when all thefugar is melted, put in the whites of the eggs into the pan and the juice, fet it over a flow fire, and keep flirring it till you find it thicken, then ftrain it through a coarfe cloth quick into the diifh. Snow Cream, a pretly Supper Difh. MAKE a rich boiled cufiard and put it in the bottom of your china or glafs difh, then take the whites of eight eggs beat with rofe water and a fpoonful of treble refined fugar, till it is a flrong froth; put fome milk and wa- ter into a broad ftew.-pan, and when it boils take the froth off the eggs and lay it on the milk and water, and let it boil once up ; take it off carefully, and lay it on your.cuflard.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. ^55^ To make Cream Che-ese. . PUT one large fpoonful of Reep to five quarts of afterings, break it down light, put it upon a cloth in a fieve bottom, and let it run till dry, break it, cut and turn it in a clean cloth, then put it into the fieve again, and put on it a two pound weight, fprinkle a little fait on it and let it Rand all night, then lay it on a board to dry, when dry lay'a few'ftr a wherry leaves on it, and ripen it between two pewter dilhes in a warm place, turn it, and put on frelh leaves every day. . .. -w . ^ To make aTKW'i.'S.. PUT three large maccaroons in the middle of your difh, pour as much white wine over them as they will drink, then take a quart of cream, put in as much fugar as will make it fweet, rub your fugar upon the rind of a lemon to fetch out the effence, put your cream into a pot, mill it to a ftrong froth, lay as much froth upon a fieve as will fill the diih you intend to put your trifle in, put the remainder of your cream into a tofling pan, with a flick of cinnamon, the. yolks of four eggs well beat, and fugar to your tafle,' fet them over a gentle fire, fiiir it one way till it is thick, then take it off the fire, pour it upon your maccaroons, when it is cold put on your frothed cream, lay round it diflerent coloured fweetmeats, and fmall fliot comfits in, and fi- gures or flowers. Al monds»tHE EXPEIUENGED Almond Custards. PUT a quart of cream into a toffing pan, a ftick of cinnamon, a blade or two of mace, boil it and fet it to cool, blanch t(vo oflnces of al- monds, beat them fine in 4 marble mortar with rofe water, if you like a ratafia tafte, put in a few apricot kernels or bitter almo"nds, mix them with your creamer fweete-n it to your tafte, fet it on a flow fire, keep ftirring it till it is pretty thick, if you let it boil it will curdle, pour it into cups, &c. T(3 make Lemon Custards. TAKE a pint of white wine, half a pound of double refined fugar, the juice of two lemons, the out-rind of one pared very thin^ the inner-^ rind of one boiled tender and rubbed through a fieve, let them boil a good while, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor, fet it to cool, pour the reft into the difli you intend for it 5 beat four yolks and two whites of eggs, mix them with your cool liquor, ftrain them into your difh, ftir them well up together, fet them on a flow fire, or boiling water to bake as a cuftard, when it is enough, grate the rind of a lemon all over the top; you may brown it over with a hot falamander. It may be eat either hot or cold. 71? Orange Custards. BOIL the rind of half a Seville orange very . tender, beat it in a marble mortar till it is very fine.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 257 fine, put to it one fpoonful of the beft brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loa fugar, and the yolks of four eggs, beat them all together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream, keep beating them till they are cold, put them in cuftard cups, and fet them in an earthen didi of hot water, let them ftand till they are fet, then take them out, and flick preferved orange on the top, and ferve th em up either hot or cold.—It is a pretty cor- ner difh for dinner, or a fide difli for fupper. ^0 make a common Custard. TAKE a quart of good cream, fet it over a flow fire, with a little cinnamon, and four ounces of fugar j when it has boiled take it off the fire j beat the yolks of eight eggs, put to them a fpoonful of orange flower water, to prevent the cream from cracking, flir them in by degrees as your cream cools, put the pan over a very flow fire, flir them carefully one way till it is al- mofl boiling, then put it into cups, and ferve them up. To make a Brest Custard. TAKE a pint of beefl, fet it over the fire, with a little cinnamon, or three bay leaves, let it be boiling hot, then take it off, and have ready mixed one fpoonful of flour, and a fpoonful of thick cream, pour your hot beefl: upon it by degrees, mix it exceeding well together, and fv/ceten it to your tafle; you may either put it in crufts or cups, or bake it. s r#258 THE EXPERIENCED To 7nake an Apple Floating Island. BAKE fix dr eight very large apples, when they are cold peel and core them, rub the pulp through a fieve with the back of a wooden Ipoon, then beat it up light with fine fugar, well fifted, to your tafte; beat the whites of four eggs with orange flower water in another bowl till it is a light froth, then mix it with your apple a little at a time till all is beat together, and exceeding light; make a rich boiled cuf- tard, and put it in a china or glafs difh, and lay the apples all over it. Garnifh with currant jelly, of what you pleafe. To make Fairy Butter. TAKE the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, a quarter of a pound of butter, beat two ounces of fugar in a large fpoonful of orange flower water, beat them all together to a fine pafte, let it Rand two or three hours, then rub it through a cullendar upon a plate; it looks very pretty. To make Almond Cheese Cakes. TAKE four ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch them and put them into cold water, beat them with rofe water in a marble mortar, or wooden bowl, with a wooden peftle, put to it four ounces of fugar, and the yolks of four eggs beat,fine, work it in the mortar or bowl till it becomes white and frothy, then make a rich puff pafte, which muft be made thus Take half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter.ENGLISH house-keeper; 259 rub a little of the butter into the flour, mix it iHff with a little cold water, then roll your pajfle ftraight out, flrew over a little flour, and lay over it in thin bits one third of your butter, throw a little more flour over the butter, do fo for three times, then put your pafte in your tins, fill them, and grate fugar over them, and bake them in a gentle oven. ‘To Cheese Cakes. SLICE a penny loaf as thin as poflible, pour on it a pint of boiling cream, let it' ftand two houts, then take eight eggs, half a pound of butter, and a nutmeg grated, beat them well together, put in half a pound of currants well waihed, and dried before the fire, and a fpoon- ful of brandy, or white wine, and bake them in raifed crufts, or petty pans. To make Citron Cheese Cakes.' BOIL a quart of cream, beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them with your cream when it is cold, then fet it on the fire, let it boil till it curds, blanch fome almonds, beat them with orange flower water, put them into the cream, with a few Naples bifcuits, and green citron fhred fine, fweeten it to your tafte, and bake th6m in tea-cups. ' To make Rice Cheese Cakes. BOIL four ounces of rice till tender, put it upon a fieve to drain, put in four eggs well beat- en, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cre^m, S 2 fix26o the experienced fix ounces of fugar, a nutmeg grated, and a glafs of ratafia water, or brandy : beat them all to- gether, and bake them in raifed crufts. Curd Cheese-Cakes. TAKE half a pint of good curds, beat them Xvith four eggs, three fpoonfuls of rich cream^ half a nutmeg grated, one fpoonful of ratafia, rofe, or orange water, put to them a quarter of a pound of fugar, half a pound of currants well wafhed and dried before the fire, mix them all well together, and bake it in petty pans, with a good cruft under them* To make Orange Crumpets. TAKE a pint of cream, and a pint of nevr milk, warm it, and put in it a little runnet, when it is broke, ftir it gently, lay it on a cloth to drain all night,and then take the rinds of three oranges, boiled as for preferving in three different waters, pound them very fine, and mix them with the €urd, and eight eggs, in a mortar, a little nut- meg, juice of lemon, or orange, and fugar to your tafte, bake them in tin pans rubbed with butter, when they are baked turn them out, and putfack and fugar over them.—Some put dices of preffed oranges among them. . • Cheese-Cakes. ’ SET a quart of ne,w milk near the fire, with . a fpoonful of runnet, let the milk be blood warm, when it is broke, drain the curd through a coarfe doth, now and then break the curd gently with youFENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 261 your fingers, rub into the curd a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugaf, a nutmeg, and two Naples bifcuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white of one egg, one ounce of almonds well beat, with two fpoonfuls of rofe water, and two of fack, clean fix ounces of currants very well, put them into your curd,, and mix them all well together, ^0 make Curd Puffs, TAKE two quarts of milk, put a little runr net in it, when it is broke, put it in a coarfe cloth to drain, then rub the curd through a hair lieve with four ounces of butter beat, ten ounces pf bread, half a nutmeg, and a lemon peel grated, a fpoonful of wine, and fugar to your tafte, rub your cups with butter, and bake them a little more than half an hour. ^0 make Egg Cheese, BEAT fix eggs well, put them into three gills of new milk, lugar, cinnamon, and lemon peel to your tafte, fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it, and fqueeze a quarter of a lemon in it to turn’ it to cheefe, let it run into what fliape you would have it, when it is cold, turn it out, pout over it a little.almond cream, made of fweet almonds beat fine with a little cream, then put them into a pint of cream, let it boil and drain it, put to. it the yolks of three eggs well beat, fet it over the fire, and make it like a cuftard.THE EXPERIENCED 262 To make a Loaf Royal. TAKE a French roll, rafp it, cutoff the hot-, tom cruft, lay it in a pan, with the bottom upwards, boil a pint of cream, put to it the yolks of two eggs, a little cinnamon, orange flower water, and fugar to your tafte, when it is cold pour it upon the roll, let it ftand in all night to fteep, then ma|ce a very good cuftard of cream, a little fack, orange flower water, and fugar, put the roll into a difti, with fome good pafte round the edge, and pour your cuftard upon it; you may lay lumps of marrow in the cuftard, and ftick long flips of citron and orange peel in the loaf, then fend it to the oven, a little time will bake it. To make a Prince Loaf. TAKE fmall French rolls, about the fize of an egg, cut a fmall round hole in the top, take put all the crumb, fill them with almond cuf- tard, lay over it currant jelly, in thin flices, beat the white of an egg, and double refined fugar to a froth, and ice them all over with it; five is r pretty dilh. Drunken Loaf. ■ TAKE a French roll hot out of the oven, rafp-it, an4 pour a pint of red wine upon it, and cover it clofe up for half an hour, boil one ounce of maccaroni in water till it is foft, and lay it upon a fieve to drain, then put the fize of a wal- ' * nutI ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 265 nut of butter into it, and as much thick cream as it will take, then fcrape in fix ounces of Par- mefan cheefe, fliake it about in your tofiing- pan, with the maccaroni till it be like a fine cuftard, then pour it hot upon your loaf; brown it with a falamander, and ferve it up.—It is a pretty difh for fupper. To ?nake Snow Balls. PARE five large baking apples, take out the cores with a fcoop, fill the holes with orange or quince marmalade, then make a little good hot pafte, and roll your apples in it, and make your cruft of an equal thicknefs, and put them in a tin dripping-pan, bake them in a moderate oven, when you take them out, make iceing for them the fame way as for the plum-cake, and ice them all over with it, about a quarter of an inch thick, fet them a good diflance from the fire till they are hardened, but take care you do not let them brown, put one in the middle of a China di(h, and the other five round it. GarnilE them with green fprigs and fmall flowers.—They are pro- per for a corner either for dinner or fupper. To make Fried Toast. CUT a flice of breadabout half an inch thick, Heep it in rich cream, with fugar and nutmeg to your tafte, when it is quite loft, put a good lump of butter into a tofling-pan, fry it a fine brown, lay it on a difli, pour wine fauce over jt, and ferve it up, S 4 CHAP,264 the experienced. CHAP. XL Obfervations upon Cakes. WHEN you make any kind of cakes, fure that you get the things ready be- fore you begin, then beat your eggs well, and do not leave them till you have finiflied the cakes, or elfe they will go back again, and your cakes will not be light; if your cakes are to have but- ter in, take care you beat it to a fine cream be- fore you put in your fugar, for if you beat it twice the time, it will not anfwer lb well; as to plum-cake, feed-cake, or rice-cake, it is befF'to bake them in wooden garths, for if you bake them in either pot or tin, they burn the outfide of the cakes, and confine them fo that the heat cannot penetrate into the middle of your cake, and prevents it from riling : bake all kinds of cake in a good oven, according to the f ze of your cake, and follow the diredions of your receipt, for though care hath been taken to weigh and meafure every article belonging to every kind of cake, yet the management and the oven mull be left to the maker’s care. ' To make a Bridil Cake. TAKE four pounds of fine Hour well dried, four pounds of frelli butter, two pounds of loaf fugar, pound and lift fine a quarter of an ounce of mace the fame of nutmegs, to every pound of flour put eight eggs, walh four pounds of currants, pick them well, and dry them before theENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 26^ the fire, blanch a pound of fweet almonds, and Cut them lengthways very thin, a pound of citron, one pound of candied orange, the fame of candied lemon, half a pint of brandy j lirft work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your fugar a quarter of an hour, beat the whites of your eggs to a very flrong froth, mix them with your fugar and butter, beat your yolks half an hour at leaf!, and mix them with your cake, then put in your flour, mace, and nut- meg, keep beating it well till your oven is ready, put in your brandy, and beat your currants and almonds lightly in, tie three fheets of paper round the bottom of your hoop to keep it from running out, rub it well with butter, put in your cake, and lay your fweetmeats in three lays,Avith cake betwixt every lay, after it is rifen and co- loured, cover it with paper before your oven is flopped up; it will take three hours baking. Almond-Icing for the Bride Cake, BEAT the whites of three eggs to a flrong froth, beat a pound of Jordan almonds very fi^ with rofe-water,mix your almonds with the eg^ lightly together, a'pound of common loaf fugar beat fine, and put in by degrees 5 when your cake is enough, take it out, and lay your icing- on, then put it in to brown. To make Sugar Icing for the Bride Cake. BEAT two pounds of double refined fugar, with two ounces of fine flarch, lift it through a gauze fieve, then beat the whites of five eggs W'ith266 THE EXPERIENCED with a knife upon a pewter difh half an hour; beat in your fugar a little at a time, or it will make the eggs fall, and will not be fo good a colour, when you have put in all your fugar, beat it half an hour longer, then lay it on your almond iceing, and fpread it even with a knife; if it be put on as foon as the cake comes out of the oven it will be hard by the time the cake is cold. , , • / To make a good Plum Cake. TAKE a pound and a half of fine flour well dried, a pound and a half of butter, three quar- ters of a pound of currants walhed and well picked, done half a pound of raifins, and flice ’ them, eighteen ounces of fugar beat and lifted, fourteen eggs, leave out the whites of half of ' them, Ihred the peel of a large lemon exceed- ing fine, three ounces of candied orange, the fame of lemon, a tea-fpoonful of beaten mace, half a nutmeg grated, a tea-cupful of brandy, or white wine, four fpoonfuls of orange flower water; firfl: work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat your fugar' well in, whilk: your eggs for half an hour, then mix them with your fugar and butter, and put in your flour and ipices, when your oven is ready, mix your brandy, fruit, and fweetmeats lightly in, then put it in your hoop, and fend it to the oven ; it will require two hours and a half baking.—It will take an hour and a half beating.» I ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. ^167 To make a rich Seed Cake. TAKE a pound of flour well dried, a pound pf butter, a pound of loaf fugar beat and fifted, eight eggs, two ounces of carraway feeds, one nutmeg grated, and its weight of cinnamon ; flrfl; beat your butter to a cream, then put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat the yolks half an hour, put to it the whites, beat in your flour, fpices, and feeds, a little before it goes to the oven, put it in the hoop and bake it two hours in a quick oven, and let it ftand two hours.—It will take twp hours heating. To make a White Plum Cake, TO two pounds of flour well dried, take a pound of fugar beat and lifted, one pound of butter, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmegs, fixteen eggs, two pounds and a half of currants, picked and wallied, half a pound of candied lemon, the fame of fweet al-. pionds, half a pint of faek or brandy, three fpoonfuls of orange flower water, beat your but- ter to a cream, put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs half an hour, mix them with your lugar and butter, then beat your yolks half an hour, mix them with your whites, it will take two hours beating, put in your flour a little be- fore your oven is ready, mix your currants and all your other ingredients lightly in, juft when you put it in your hoop,-—Two hours will bake it. fQtHE EXPERIENCED 268 *To make little Plum Cakes. TAKE a pound of flour, rub'it into half a pound of butter, the fame of fugar, a little beaten mace, beat four eggs very well (leave out half the whites) with three fpoonfuls of yefl:, put to it a quarter of a pint of warm cream, flirain them into your flour, and make it up light, fet it before the fire to rife^ jufl: before you fend it to the oven, put in three quarters of a pound of currants, *To make Orange Cakes; TAKE Seville oranges that have very good rinds, quarter them, and boil them in. two or three waters until they are tender, and the bit- ternefs is gone off, fcum them, then lay therri on a clean napkin to dry, take all the feeds and fldns out of the pulp with a knife, Ihred the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine fugar into a t'ofling pan, with jufl; as much water as will dilTolve it, boil it till it becomes a per- fed; fugar, then by degrees put in your orange peels and pulp, fl;ir them well before you fet them on the fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and thick, then put it into flat-bottomed glafles, fet them in a Rove, and keep a conftant moderate heat to them, when they are candied on the top, turn them out upon glafles, - 'N, B. You may make lemon cakes the fame way.' ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 26^ To makeCake a fecond Way.' BEAT the whites of ten eggs with a whiflc, for one hour with three fpoonfuls of rofe or orange flower water, then put in one pound of loaf fugar beat and lifted, with the yellow rind of a lemon grated into it; when it is well mixed put in the juice of half a lemon and the yolks of ten eggs beat fmooth, and juft before you put it into the oven ftir in three quarters of a pound of flour; butter your pan, and one Hour will bake it in a moderate oven. To make Rice Cake. TAKE fifteen eggs, leave out one half of the whites, beat them exceeding well near an hour with a whilk, then beat the yolks half an hour, put to your yolks ten ounces of loaf fugar fifted fine, beat it well in,' then put in half a pound of rice flour, a little orange water or brandy, the rinds of two lemons grated, then put in your whites, beat them all well together for a quarter of an hour, then put them in a hoop and fet them in a quick oven for half an hour. To make Ratafia Cakes. Take half a pound of fweet almonds, the fame quantity of bitter, blanch and beat them fine in orange, rofe, or clear water, to keep them from oiling, pound and fift a pound of fine fugar, iftix it with your almonds, have ready very well beat, the whites of four eggs, mix them270 the EXPERIENCEI5 them lightly with the almonds and fugar, put it in a preferving pan, and fet it over a moderate £re, keep ftirring it quick one way until it is pretty hot, when it is a little cool roll it in fmall rolls, and cut it in thin cakes, dip your hands in flour and (hake them on it, give them each a light tap with your Anger, put them on fugar papers, and fift a little fine fugar over them juft as you are putting them into a flow oven* To make Ratafia Cakes a fecond Way^ Take one pound and a half of fweet al- monds, and half a pound of bitter almonds, beat them as fine as poflible with the whites of two eggs, then beat the whites of five eggs to a ftrong froth, ftiake in lightly two pounds and a half of fine loaf fugar beat and lifted very fine*, drop them in little drops the lize of a nutmeg, on cap paper, and bake them in a flack oven. To make Shrewsbury Cakes. t TAKE half a pound of butter, beat it to a cream, then put in half a pound of flour, one egg, fix ounces of loaf fugar beat and fifted, half an ounce of carraway feeds mixed into a pafte, roll them thin, and cut them round with a fmall glafs, or little tins,, prick them, and lay them on fheets of tin, and bake them in a flow oven. To make Shrewsbu.ry Cakes a feco7id Way. TO a pound of butter, btat and flit a pound of double refined fugar, a little mace, and fourI ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 271 eggs, beat them all together with your hand till it is very light and looks curdling, then fhake in a pound and a half of fine flour, roll it thin and cut it into little cakes with a tin, and bake them. To 7nake Bath Cakes. RUB half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and one fpoonful of good barm, warm fome cream, and make it into a light pafle, fet it to the fire to rife, when you make them up, take four ounces of carraway comfits, work part of them in, and ftrew the reft on the top, make them into a round cake, the fize of a French roll, bake them on flaeet tins, and fend them in hot for breakfaft. To make Queen Cakes. TAKE a pound of loaf fugar, beat and fift it, a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of currants wafhed and picked, grate a nutmeg, the fame quantity of mace and cinnamon, work your butter to a cream, then put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs near half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat your yolks near half an hour, and put them to ypiir butter, beat them exceeding well together, then put in your flour, fpices, and the currants, when it is ready for the oven, bake them in tins, and duft a little fugar over them. 3 To•272 the experience^ * To make a common Seed Cake. TAKE two pounds of flour, rub it into half ^ pound of powdered fugar, one ounce of carraway feeds beaten, have ready a pint of milk, with half a pound of butter melted in it, and two fpoonfuls of new barm, make it up into a pafte, fet it to the fire to rife, flour your tin, and bake at in a quick oven. To make Cream Cakes. BEAT the whites of nine eggs to a ftiff froth> then flir it gently with a fpoon, for fear the froth fhould fall, and grate the rinds of two lemons, to every white of an egg, fhake in foftly a fpoonful of double refined fugar fifted fine, lay a wet fheetof paper on a tin, and drop the froth in little lumps on it with a fpoon, a fmall difiance from each other, and fift a good quantity of fugar over them, fet them in an oven after brown bread, make the oven clofe up, and the froth will rife, when they are jufi coloured they are baked enough, take them out and put two bottoms together, and lay them on a fieve, then fet them in a cool oven to dry.—You may lay rafpberry jam, or any other forts offweet- meats .betwixt them before you clofc the bot- toms together to dry. To make little Currant Cakes. TAKE one pound, and a half of fine flour, dry it well before the fire, a pound of butter, I halfGKGLISH HOUSE-KEEPElt. half a pound of fine loaf fugar well beat and lifted, four yolks of eggs, four fpoonfuls of* rofe water, four fpoonfuls of fack, a little mace, and one nutmeg grated : beat the eggs very well, and put them to the rofe water and fack, then put to it the fugar and butter; work them all together, ftrew in the currants and the flour, being both made warm together before.—This quantity will make fix or eight cakes; bake them pretty crifp, and a fine brown. ^0 make Prussian Cake. Tx\KE a- pound of fugar beat and lifted, half a pound of flour dried, feven eggs, beat the yolks and whites feparate, the juice of one lemon, the peel of two grated very fine, half a pound of almonds beat fine with rofe water ; as foon as the whites are beat to a froth, put in all the things except the flour, and beat them to- gether for half an hour, juft before you fet it in the oven, lhakein the flour.—N. B. The whites and yolks mufl; be beat feparate, or it will be quite heavy. ‘To make ^7 Cake 'without butter, BEAT eight eggs half an hour, have ,ready pounded and fifted a pound of loaf fugar, llaake it in, and beat it half an hour more, put to it a quarter of a pound of fweet almonds beat fine, wdth orange flour water, grate the rind of a lemon into the almonds, and fquCeze in the juice of the lemon, mix them all together, and keep T beating274 ’ the experienced beating them till the oven is fleady, and juft be-' fore ^'Ou Tet it in, put to it three (quarters of a, pound of warm dry fine flour; rub your hoop with butter: an hour and a half will bake it. ^0 make'BA'RhAT)OES Jumballs. BEAT very light the yolks of four eggs and the whites of eight, with a fpoonful of rofe water, and duft in a pound of treble refined fugar, then put in three quarters of a pound of the beft fine flour, ftir it lightly in, greafeyour tin fheets, and drop them in the fhape of a macaroon, and bake them nicely. *To make Chacknels. TO a pint of blue milk put about two ounces of butter and a good fpoonful of yell, make it juft warm, and mix into it as much fine flour as will make it a light dough, roll it out very thin, and cut it into long pieces two inches broad, prick them well, and bake them in a flow oven upon tin plates. ^0 make\^iGm: TO three quarters of a pound of fine flour, put half a pint of milk made warm, mix in it two or three fpoonfuls of light barm, cover it up, let it half an hour by the fire to rife, work in the pafte four ounces of fugar, and four ounces ©f butter, make it into wigs with as little flour as.poflible, and a few feeds, fet them in a quick even to bake.ENGLISH HOtJSE-KEEPER. 275 T’o make Macaroons. TO one pound of blanched and beaten fweet almonds, put one pound of fugar^ and a little rofe water, to keep them from oiling, then beat the whites of feven eggs to a froth, put them in and beat them well together, drop them on wafer paper, grate fugar over them, and bake them. 'To make Spanish BiscuixSi BEAT the yolks of eight eggs near half an hour, then beat in eight fpoonfuls of fugar, beat the whites to a ftrong froth, then beat them very well with your yolksand fugar near half an hour, put in four fpoonfuls of flour, and a little lemon cut exceeding fine, and bake them on papers. To 7uake Sponge Biscuits. BEAT the yolks of twelve eggs half an hour, put in a pound and a half of fugar beat and lift- ed, whilk it well till you fee it rife in bub- bles, beat the whites to a firong froth, whilk them well with your fugar and yolks, beat in fourteen ounces of flour, with the rinds of two, lemons grated, bake them in tin moulds but-< tered, or coffins j they require a hot oven, the mouth mufl: not be Hopped; when you put them into the oven duH them with fugar 5 they will take half an hour baking. T 2 To276 THE EXPERIENCED To T(3 make Lemon Biscuits. BEAT very \vell the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of five, with four fpoonfuls of orange flower water till they froth up, then put in a pound of loaf fugar fifted, beat it one way for half an hour or more, put in half a pound of flour with the rafpings of two lemons, and the pulp of a fmall one, butter your tin, and bake it in a quick oven, but do not fiop up the mouth at firfl for fear it fhould fcorch, dull: it with fugar before you put it in the oven i it is foon baked. To make'Tiv^ov Biscuits. BEAT the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of fix, with one fpoonful of rofe water, ha^f an hour, then put in ten ounces of loaf fugar beat and fifted, whilk them well for half an hour, then add one ounce of carraway feeds cru/hed a little, and fix ounces of fine flour, whiflc in your flour gently, drop them on wafer papers, and bake them in a moderate oven. To make common Biscuits. BEAT eight eggs half an hour, put in a pound of fugar beat and fifted, with the rind of a lemon grated, whifk it an hour till it looks light, then put in a pound of flour, with a lit- tle rofe water, and bake them in tins, or on papers, with fugar over them.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 277 To T 3 ^0 make Wafers. TAKE two fpoonfuls of cream, two of fugar, the fame of flour, and one fpoonful of orange flower water, beat them well together for half an hour, then make your wafer tongs hot, and pour a little of your batter in to cover your irons, bake them on a ftove fire, as they are baked roll them round a flick like a fpig- got, as foon as they are cold, they will be very crifp j they are proper for tea, or to put upon a falver to eat with jellies. tnake Lemon Puffs. BEAT a pound of double refined fugar, lift it throi^h a fine fieve, put it in a bowl, with the juice of'two lemons, beat them well together, then beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, put it in your bowl, beat it half an hour ; then put in three eggs, with two rinds of lemons grated, mix it well up, dull your papers with fugar, drop on the puffs in fmall drops, and bake them in a moderate oven. To make Chocolate Puffs. ' BEAT and lift half a pound of double refined fugar, ferape into it one ounce of chocolate very fine, mix them together, beat the whil*^ of an egg to a very high froth, then drew in your fugar and chocolate ; keep beating it till it is as flilf as pafle, fugar your papers, and drop them on about the fize of a fixpence, and bake them in a very flow oven.478 THE EXPERIENCED 7(? make Almond Puffs. BLANCH two ounces of fweet almonds, beat them fine with orange flower water, beat the whites of three eggs to a very high froth, then ftrew in a little lifted fugar, mix your al- mopds with your fugar and eggs, then add more fugar till it is as fliff as a pafle, lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool oven. I’d make Picklets. TAKE three pounds of flour, make a hole in the middle with your hand, then mix two fpoonfuls of barm, v/ith as much milk and a little fait as will make it into a light pafte, pour your milk and barm into the middle of your flour and flir a little of your flour into it, then let it fland all night, and the’ next morning work all the flour into the barm, and beat it well for a quarter of an hour, then let it ftand an hour j after that take it out with a large fpoon, and lay it on a board well dufted with flo’jr, and dredge flour over them; pat it with your hand, and bake them upon your bake- ^one, make French Bread. TAKE a quarter of a peck of flour, one punce of butter melted in milk and water, rai^f two or three fpoonfuls of barm with it, ftrain jt through a iieve, beat the white of an egg, putENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 279 put it in your water with a little fait, work up to a light pafte, put it into a bowl, then pull it into pieces, let it ftand all night, then work it well up again, cover it, and lay it on a drelTer for half an hour, then work ali the pieces fepa- rate and make them into rolls, and fet them in the oven. 21? make White Bread. TO a gallon of the befl: flour, put fix ounce# of butter, half a pint of good yefi:, a little fait, break two eggs into a bafon, but leave out one of the whites, put a fpoonful or two of water to them, and beat them up to a froth, and put them in the flour, have as much new milk as will wet it, make it juft warm and mix it up, lay a handful of flour and drive it about, holding one hand in the dough, and driving it with the other hand till it is quite light,' then put it in your pan again, and put it near the fire and cover it with a cloth, and let it ftand an hour and a quarter; make your rolls ten minutes before you fet them in the oven, and prick them with a fork; if they are the bignefs of a French roll, three quarters of an hour will bake them. 21? Tea Crumpets. BEAT two eggs very well, put to them a quart of warm milk and water, and a large fpoonful of barm ; beat in as much fine flour as will make them rather thicker than a common T 4 battera8o THE EXPERIENCED batter pudding, then make your bake-ftonc very hot, and rub it with a little butter wrapped jn a clean linen cloth, then pour a large fpoon, ful of batter upon your Rone, and let it run to the fize of a tea faucer j turn it, and when you want to ufe them toad them very crifp and but- ter them. CHAP. XII. .L'ITTLE SAVORY DISHES, ragoo PiGrGS Feet and Ears. Boil your feet and ears, then fplit your feet down the middle’, and cut the ears in nar- row flices, dip them in batter, and fry them a good brown, put a little beef gravy in atoITihg- pan, with a tea fpbonful of lemon pickle, a large one of mufhroom catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and a little fait, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and put in your feet and ears, give them a gentle boil, and then lay your feet in the middle of your dilh, and the cars round them; drain your gravy and pour it over r Garnilh with curled parlley.' It is a pretty corner difli for dinner, 'To mak^ a Soiouo^-QmiDY. TAKE the white part of a roafted chicken, the yolks of four boiled eggs, andthe whites of the fiim?^ two pickled herrings, and a handful of parflevj \ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.’ 281 parfley, chop them feparately exceeding fmall, take the fame quantity of Jean boiled ham fcraped line, turn a china bafon upfide dowh in the mid- dle of a diih, make a quarter of a pound of butter in the (hape of a pine apple and fet it on the bafon bottom, lay round your bafon a ring of Hired parfley, then a ring of yolks of eggs, then whites, then ham, then chicken, then herring, till you have covered your bafon and ul'ed all the ingredients, lay the bones of the pickled herrings upon it with the tails up to the butter, and the heads lie on the.edge of the difh ; lay a few capers, and three or four pickled oyfters round your difh, and fend it up. SoLOMON-GUNDY a feco7id Way. CHOP all the ingredients, as for the firff, mix them well together, and put in the middle of your difh a large Seville orange, and your ingredients round it, rub a'little cold butter through a fieve, and it will curl, lay it in lumps on the meat; Hick a fprig of curled parfley on your butter and ferve it up. roaji a Calf’s Heart. MAKE a forcemeat with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet fhred fmall, or butter, chop a little parfley, fweet marjoram, and lemon peel, mix it up with a little nutmeg, pepper, fait, and the yolk of an egg, fill your heart, and lay over the fluff- ing a caul of'veal, or writing paper, to keep it282 THE EXPERIENCED in the heart, lay it in a Duch oven, keep turn- ing it and roaft it thoroughly ; when you difli it up, pour over it good melted butter, and lay dices of lemon round it, and fend it to table. T'o drefs a Dijh of Lambs Bits, SKIN the ftones and fplit them, lay them on a dry cloth with the fweetbreads and liver, and dredge them well with flour, and fry them in boiling lard, or butter, a light brown, then lay them on a fieve to drain, fry a good quantity of parfley, lay your bits on the difh, and the parfley in lumps over it, pour melted butter round them, To fricajfee Calf’s-Feet. BOIL your feet, take'out the bones and cut the meat in thin dices, and put it into a tofling- pan, with half a pint of good gravy, boil them a little, and then put in a few morels, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufhroom powder, or pickled mufhrooms, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and a little fait, thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, mix the yolk of an egg with a tea cupful of good cream, and half a nutmeg grated, put it in, and (hake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, it will c urdle the milk : garnifii with lemon, and cut led parfley. Chickens in Savory Jeely. ROAST two chickens, then boil a gang of «alf’s-feet to a ftrong jelly, take out the feet, ikimENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2S3 {kirn olF the fat, beat the whites of three eggs very well, then mix them with half a pint of white wine vinegar, the juice of three lemons, a blade or two of mace, a few pepper corns, and a little fait, put them to your jelly ; when it has boiled five or fix minutes, run it through a jelly bag feveral times till it is very clear, then put a little in the bottom of a bowl that will hold your chickens, when the}'’ are cold, and the jelly quite fet, lay them in with their breafirs down, then fill up your bowl quite full with the reft of your jelly, which you muft take care to keep from fetting (fd that when you pour it into your bowl it will not break) let it hand all night, the next day put your bafon into warm ♦ water, pretty near the top ; as foon as you find it loofe in the bafon, lay your difli over it, and turn it out upon it. Pigeons In Savory Jelly. ROAST your pigeons with the head and feet on, put a fprig of myrtle in their bills, make a jelly for them the fame way as for the chickens, ■pour a little into a bafon, when it is fet lay in the pigeons with their breafts down, fill up your bowl with your jelly, and turn it out as before. Birds in Savory Jelly. .TAKE eight fmall birds with their heads and feet on, put a good lump of butter in them and few up their vents, put them in a jug, cover it clofe with a cloth, fet them in a kettle of 0. boiling284 the experienced boiling water till they are enough, drain them* make your jelly as before, put a little into a bafon, when it is fet, lay in three birds with their breafts down, cover them with the jelly, when it is fet put the other five with the heads in the middle, fill up your bowl with jelly as before, and turn it out the fame way. Smelts in Savory Jelly. GUT and wafli your fmelts, feafon them with mace and fait, lay them in a pot with butter over them, tie them down with paper, and bake them half an hour, take them out, and when they are a little cool, lay them leparately on a board to drain, when they are quite cold, lay thepi on a deep plate in what form you pleafe, pour cold jelly over them, and they will look like live filh.—Make your jelly as before. Craw-Fish in Savory Jelly. t BOIL your craw-fifli, then put a little jelly in a bowl, made as for the chickens, when it is fet, put in a few craw-fifli, then cover them with jelly, when it is cold, put in more lays till your bowl is full, let it Rand all night, and turn them out the fame as the chickens. N * Craw-Fish in Jelly. BOIL half a dozen large craw-filh, and let them cool, wipe them clean, lay them in a punch-bowl with their backs downwards, pour on them fome nice calf’s-foot jelly, when it is ^ ^ coldENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 285 cold turn it out upon a glafs difli; it makes a very pretty Ede difh for either dinner or fupper# Ti? Macc ARON I w///6 Parmesan Cheese. BOIL four ounces of maccaroni till it be quite tender, and lay it on a Eeve to drain, then put it in a toEing pan, with about a gill of good cream, a lump of butter rolled in flour, boil it five minutes, pour it on a plate, lay all over it Parmefan cheefe toafted; fend it to table on a water plate for it foon goes cold. To flew Cheese with Light Wigs. CUT a plateful of cheefe, pour on it a glafs of red wine, ftew it before the fire, toaft a light wig, pour over it two or three fpoonfuls of hot red wine, put it in the middle of your dilh, lay the cheefe over it, and ferve it up. To flew Cheese. CUT your cheefe very thin, lay it in a toafier, fet it before the fire, pour a glafs of ale over it, let it ftand till it is all like a light cuEard, then pour it on toaEs or wigs, and fend it in hot. To flew Chardoons. TAKE the infide of your chardoons, waEi them well, boil them in fait and water, put them into a toffing pan with a little veal gravy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of muE'^oom catchup, pepper and fait to your taEe,286 THE EXPERIENCED tafte, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, and lerve it up in a foup plate. , Chardoons. BOIL your chardoons as you did for Rewing, then dip them in batter made of a fpoonful of flour and ale, fry them in a pan of boiling lard, pour melted butter over them, and ferve them up. To ragoa Celery. TAKE off all the outfides of your heads of celery, cut them in pieces, put them in a tof- flng pan, with a little veal gravy or water, boil them till they are tender, put to it a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a meat fpoonful of white wine, and a little fait; thicken it with flour and but- ter, and ferve them up with fippets. , . To fry Celery. BOIL your celery as for a ragoo, then cut it and dip it in batter, fry it a light brown in hog’s- lard put it on a plate, and pour melted butter upon it. . To flew Celery. TAKE off the outfide and the green ends of your heads of celery, boil them in water till they are very tender, put in a flice of lemon, a little beaten mace, thicken itwdthagood lump of butter and flour, boil it a little, beat the yolksENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2S7 of two eggs, grate in half a nutmeg, mix them with a tea-cupful of good cream, put it to your gravy, (hake it over the fire till it be of a fins thicknefs, but do not let it boil; ferve it up hot. ^0fcollop Potatoes. BOIL your potatoes, then beat them fine in a bowl with good cream, a lump of butter and fait, put them into fcollop fliells, make them fmooth on the top, fcore them with a knife, lay thin fiices of butter on the . top of them, put them in a Dutch oven to brown before the fire. Three {hells is enough for a dhh. To Jiew Mushrooms. TAKE large buttons, wipe them with a wet flannel, put them in a ftew-pan with a little water, let them flew a quarter of an hour, then put in a little fait, work a little flour and butter to make it as thick as cream, let it boil five minutes, when you difli it up put two large fpoonfuls of cream mixed with the yolk of an egg, {hake it over the fire about a minute or two, but do not let it boil forfear of curdling; put fippets round the infide of the rim of the dilh, but not toafted, and ferve it up.—It is proper for a fide-difli for {upper, or a corner for dinner. Another fVay to Jiew Mushrooms. PUT your muflirooms in fait and water, wipe them with a flannel, and put theni again inl'alt and water. I288 THE EXPERIENCED water, then throw them into a faucepan by thetn-“ lelves, and let them boil up as quick as poflible, then put in a little Chyan pepper, a little mace if you like the flavour, let them ftew in this a quarter of an hour, then add a tea-cupful of cream with a little flour and butter the fize of a walnut; let them be ferved up as foon as done. Ti? Mushroom Loaves. TAKE fmall buttons, wafli them as for pick^ ling, put them in a tolling pan, wdth a little white bread crumbs that have been boiled half an hour in water, then boil your muihrooms in the bread and water five minutes, thicken it with flour and butter, and two fpoonfuls of cream, but no yolks of eggs, put in a little fait, then take five fmall French rolls, make holes in the tops of them about the fize of a fhilling, and ferapeout all the crumb, and put in your mufli- rooms j flick a bay leaf on the top of every roll. ' Five is a handfome difn for dinner, and three for fupper. To ragoo Mushrooms. TAKE large muflirooms, peel, and take out the infide, broil them on a gridiron, when the outfide is brown put them into a tofling pan, with as much water as will cover them, let them fland ten minutes, then put to them a fpoonful of white wine, the fame of browning, a very little allegar, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, lay fippets round your difh, and ferve it up.ENGLISH HOtJSE-ItEEPER. 289 !T/9 Jiew Peas mth Lettuces. SHELL your peas, boil them in hard water With fait in it, drain them in a fievc, then cut your lettuces in flices, and fry the'm in frelh but- teij put your peas and lettuces into a tolling pan, with a little good gravy, pepper, and fait, thicken it with hour and butter, put in a little ilired mint, and ferve it up in a fpup dilh. ^0 poach Eggs with Toasts. PUT your water on in a flat bottom pan, with a little fait, when it boils break your eggs carefully in, and let them boil two minutes, then take them up with an egg fpoon, and lay them on buttered toafts* To drefs'Eggs and S?UiAGY.'. PICK and walh your fpinage in feveral waters, fet a pan over the lire with a large quantity of Water, throw a handful of fait in, when it boils put your fpinage inj ahd let it boil two minutes, take it up with a filli dice, and lay it on the back of a hair iieve, fqueeze the water out, and put it in a tolling pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, keep turning and chopping it with a knife, till it is quite dry, then prefs it a little betwixt two pewter plates, cut it in the lliape of fippets, and fome in diamonds, poach your eggs as before, and lay them on your fpinage, and ferve them up hot.—N. B. You may boil brocoli inftead of fpinage, and lay it in bunches betwixt every egg. UTHE EXPERIENCED 290 To drefs Eggs with Artichoke Bottoms. BOIL your artichoke bottoms in hard water, if dry ones in foft water, put in a good lump of butter in the water, it will make them boil in half the time,'and they will be white and plump ; when you put them up put the yolk of an hard .egg in the middle of every bottom, and pour good melted butter upon them, and ferve them up; you may lay afparagus, or brocoli, betwixt every bottom. To make a fricajfee of Eggs. BOIL your eggs pretty hard, cut them in round flices, make a white fauce the fame way‘ as for boiled chickens, pour it over your eggs, lay fippets round them, and put a whole yolk in the middle of your plate.—It is proper for a corner difh at fupper. ' To fry Sausages. CUT them In Angle links, and fry them in frefh butter, then take a flice of bread and fry it a good brown in the butter you fried the fau- fages in, and lay it in the bottom of your difh, put the faufages on the toaft, in four parts, and lay poached eggs betwixt them j pour a little good melted butter round them, and ferve them up.English HOUSE-KEEPER. 291 To Jiew Cucumbers. PEEL off the out-rind, flice the cucumbers jDretty thick, fry them in freih butter, and lay them on a fieve to drain, put them into a tofy ling pan with a large glafs of red wine, the fame ©f ftrong gravy, a blade or two of mace, make it pretty thick with flour and butter, and when it boils up put in your cucumbers, keep fhaking them, and let them boil five minutes, be care- ful you do hot break them; pour them into a difh, and ferve them up. To male an Amulet. PUT a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying pan, break fix eggs and beat them a little, ffrain them through a hair fieve, put them in when your butter is hot, and ftrew in a little flired parfley and boiled ham feraped fine, with nutmeg, pepper, and fait, fry it brown on the under-f]de,lay it on your difli, but do not turn it, hold a hot falamander half a minute over it to take off the raw look of the eggs; flick curled parfley in it, and ferve it up.—AT. B. You may put in clary and chives, or onions if you like it. To make an Amulet of Asparagus. TAKE fix eggs, beat them up with cream, boil fomeof the largeft and fineffafparagus, when boiled cut off all the green in fmall pieces, and mix them with the eggs, and fome pepper and fait j make your pan hot, and put in a flice of butter, then put them in, and fend them up hot.—You may ferve them up hot on buttered toafls. U 2 Tor92 the. experienced, £cc. To make Panada. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil it in a pint of water, with one onion and a Few pepper corns, till quite thick and foft, then put in two ounces of butter, a little fait, and half a pint of thick cream, keep flirring it till it is like a fine cuftard, pour it into a foup plate, and ferve it up.—N. B. You may ufe fu- gar and currants, inftead of onions and pepper- corns if you pleafe. To make a Ramequin of Cheese. TAKE fomc old Chefliire cheefe, a lump of butter, and the yolk of a hard boiled egg, and beat it very well together in a marble mor- tar, fpread it on fome flices of bread toafted and buttered j hold a falamander over them, and lend them up. PARTpart III. CHAP. Ill, Ohjiirv^ations on Potting Coll aring, COVER your meat well with butter, and ( tie over it ftrong paper, and bake it well; when it comes out of the oven pick out all the fkins quite clean, and drain the meat from the gravy, or the fkins will hinder it from lo'oking well, and the gravy will foon turn it four, beat your feafoning well before you put in your meat, and put it in by degrees as you are beat- ing; when you put it into your pots, prefs it well, and let it be quite cold before you pour the clarified butter over it.—In collaring, be .careful you roll it up, and bind it clofe, boil it till it is thoroughly enough, when quite cold put it into pickle with the binding on, next day take off the binding, when it will leave the Ikin clear; make frelh pickle often and your meat will keep good a long time. ^0 pot Beef. RUB twelve pounds of beef with half a pound of brown fugar, and one ounce of falt- petre, let it lie twenty-four hours, then wafh it clean and dry it well with a cloth, feafon it with a little beaten mace, pepper and fait, to your U ^ tafte.294 THE-‘EXPERIENCED taRe, cut it in five or fix pieces, and put it in an earthen pot, with a pound of butter in lumps upon it, fet it in an hot oven, and let it ftand three hours, then take it out, cut off the hard out'fides, and beat it in a mortar; add to it a lit- tle more mace, pepper and fait: oil a pound of butter in the gravy and fat that came from your beef, and put it in as j^'^u fee it requires it, and beat it exceeding fine, then put it into your pots, and prefs it clofe down; pour clarified buttef oyer it^ and keep it in a dry place.. ‘To pot Beef to eat like Venison, PUT ten pounds of beef into a deep difli, pour over it a pint of red wine, and let it lie in it for two days, then feafon it with mace, pep- per, and fait, and put it into a pot with the wine it was ffeeped in, add to it a large glafs more of wine, tie it down with paper, and bake it three hours in a quick oven; when you take it out beat it in a mortar or wooden bowl, clarify a pound of butter, and put it in as you fee it re- quires it,- keep beating it till it is a fine pafte, then put it into your pots, lay a paper over it, and fet on a weight to prefs it down; the next day pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place for ufe. To pot Ox Cheek, WHEN you flew an ox cheek, take fome of the flefhy part and feafon it well with fait and pepper, and beat it yery fihe in a mortar with a little clear fat fkimmed off the gravy, then put ' 5 “ IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 295 it clofe into your potting pots, and pour over it clarified butter, and keep it for ufe. ^0pot Venison, IF your venifon be ftale rub it with vinegar, and let it lie one hour, then dry it clean with a cloth and rub it all over with red wine, feafon it with beaten mace, pe|^er, and fait, put it on an earthen difh, and pour over it half a pint of red wine, and a pound of butter, and fet it in the oven; if it be a fhoulder put a coarfe pafte, over it, and bake it all night in a brown bread oven; when it comes out, pick it clean from the bones, and beat it in a marble mortar, with the fat from your gravy j if-you find it not feafoned ' enough, add more feafoning and clarified butter, and keep beating it till it is a fine pafte, then prefs it hard down into your pots, and pour clari- fied butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. T’o pot Veal. CUT a fillet of veal in three or four pieces, feafon it with pepper, fait, and a little mace, put , it into pots with half a pound of butter, tie a . paper over it, and fet it in a hot oven, and bake it three hours, when you take it out cut off all the out-fides, then put the veal in a marble mor- tar, and beat it with the fat from your o'ravy, then oil a pound of frefti butter, and put^it in, a little at a time, and keep beating it till you fee it is like a fine pafte, then put it clofe down into your potting pots, put a paper upon it, and fet on a weight to prefs it hard3 when your veal ^4 is • I t296 THE EXPERIENCED is cold and ftifF, pour over it clarified butter, thq thicknefs of a crown piece, and tie it down. T?Marble Veal. BOIL a dried tongue, fkin it, and cut it as thin as poffible, and beat it exceeding well with near a pound of butter and a little beaten mace, till it is like a pafte, haVe ready veal Revised and beat the fame way as before, then put fome veal into your potting pots, then feme tongue in lumps over the veal: fill your pot clefe up with veal, and prefs it very hard down, and pour cla- rified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. N. B. Do not lay on your tongue in any form, but in lumps, and it will cut like marble j when you fend it to the tabic cut it out in flices, and garnifh it with curled parfley. pot Tongues. TAKE a neat^s tongue, and rub it with an ' ounce of falt-petre, and four ounces bf brgwn fugar, 'and let it lie two days, then boil it till it is quite tender, and take off the Ikin and fide- bits, then cut the tongue in very thin flices, and beat it in a marble mortar, with one pound of clarified butter, mace, pepper, and fait to your tafte, beat it exceeding fine, then put it clofe down into fmall potting pots, and pour clarified butter oyer them, ioENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 297 'fo pot a Hare, HANG up your hare four or five days with the Ikin on, then cafe it, and cut it up as for tzt- jng, put it in a pot, and feafon it with- mace, pepper, and fait, pnt a pound of butter upon it, tie it down, and bake it in a bread oven, when, it comes out, pick it clean from the bones, and pound it very fine in a mortar, with the fat from your gravy, then put it clofe down into your pots, and pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. pot Ham with Chickens., TAKE as much lean of a boiled ham as you pleafc, and half the quantity of fat, cut it as thin as poilible, beat it very fine in a mortar, with a little oiled butter, beaten mace, pepper, and fait, put part of it into a china pot, then beat the white part of a fowl with a very little feafoning ; it is to qualify the ham; put a lay of chicken, then one of ham, then chicken at the top, prefs it hard down, and when it is cold, pour clarified butter over it; when you fend it to the table cut out a thin flice in the form of half a diamond, and lay it round the edge of your pot. ^0pot Woodcocks. PLUCK fix woodcocks, draw out the train, •fkewer their bills through their thighs, and put ' the legs through each other, and their feet upon their breads, fealon them with three or four blade?I 298 THE EXPERIENCED j blades of mace, and a little pepper and fait, then I put them into a deep pot, with a pound of but- ter oyer them, tie a Ifrong paper over them, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when they are enough, lay them on a di£h to drain the gravy from them, then put them into potting pots, and take all the clear butter from your gravy, and put it upon them, and fill up your pots with clari- fied butter, and keep them in a dry place, ^0 pot Moor Game. PICK and draw your moor game, wipe them clean with a cloth, and feafon them pretty well with mace, pepper, and fait, put one leg through the other, roail theni till they are quite enough, and a good brown; when they are cold put them into potting pots, and pour over them clarified butter, and keep them in a dry place.—N. B. Ob- ferve to leave their heads uncovered with butter, 1 Ti?Pigeons. / PICK your pigeons, cut off the pinions, wafh them clean, and put them into a fieve to drain, then dry them with a cloth, and feafon them with pepper and fait, roll a lump of butter in chop-^ 1 ped parfley, and put it into the pigeons, few up | the vent, then put them into a pot with butter over them, lie them down, and fet them in a moderate oven 3 when they come out, put them : into potting pots, and cover them well with ^ clarified buttter, | , ■VENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 299 To 'Topot all Kinds of [mall Birds. PICK and gut your birds, dry them well with a cloth, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait, then put them into a pot with butter, tie your pot down with paper, and bakje them in. a moderate oven; when they come out, drain the gravy from them, and put them into potting pots, and cover them with parified butter. To make a cold Porcupine of Beef. SALT a flank of beef the fame way as you did the round of beef, and turn it every day for a fortnight at leaft, then lay it flat upon a table, beat it an hour, or till it is foft all over, then rub it over with the yolks of three eggs, ftrew over it a quarter of an ounce of beaten mace, the fame of nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your tafte, the crumb of two penny loaves, and two large handfuls of parfley Hired fmall, then cover it with thin flices of fat bacon, and roll your beef up very tight, and bind it well with pack-thread, boil it four hours, when it is cold, lard it all over, one row with the lean of ham, a fecond with cucumbers, a third with fat bacon, cut them in pieces about the thicknefs of a pipe, fhank and lard it fo that it may appear red, green, and white; fend it to the table with pickles and fcraped horfe-radifli round it, keep it in .fait and water, and a little vinegar.—You may keep it four or five days without pickle.THE EXPERIENCED 300 To collar a Breast of Veal. BONE your veal, and beat it a little, then rub it over with the yolk of an egg, Rrew over it a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, a lar^e handful of parfley chopped fmall, with a few fprigs of fweet marjoram, alittle le- mon peel cut exceeding line, one anchovy walh- ed, boned, and chopped very fmall, and mixed with a few bread crumbs, then roll it up very tight, bind it hard with a fillet, and wrap it in a clean cloth, then boil it two hours and a half in foft water, when it is enough, hang it up by one end, and make a pickle for it; to one pint of fait and water, put half a pint of vinegar j when you fend it to the table, cut a flice off one end : garnifli with pickles and parfley. To collar a Calf’s Head, TAKE a calf’s head with the fkin on, and drefs off the hair, then rip it down the face, and take out all the bones carefully from the meat, and fteep it in warm blue milk, till it is white, then lay it fiat, and rub it with the white of an egg, and ftrew over it a tea-fpoonful of white pepper, two or three blades of beaten mace, and one nutmeg, a fpoonful of fait, two Icore of oyffers chopped fmall, half a pound of beef marrow, and a large handful of parfley, lay them all over the infide of the head, cut off the ears, and by them in a thin part of the head, then roll it up tight, bind it up with a fillet, and 6 wrapENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 361 wrap it up in a clean cloth, boil it two hours, and when it is almoft cold, bind it up with a frefli fillet, and put it in a pickle made as above, and keep it for ufe. To collar a Breast of Mutton. BONE your mutton, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then grate over it a little lemon peel, and a nutmeg, with a little pepper and fait, then chop fmall one tea-cupful of capers, two anchovies, Hired fine a handful of parfley, a few fweet herbs, mix them with the crumb of a penny loaf, and firew it over your mutton, and roll it up tight, boil it two hours, then take it up, and put it in a pickle made as for the calf’s-head. I .. To collai' aV\G. KILL your pig, drefs off the hair, and draw out the entrails, and wafh it clean, take a (harp knife, rip it open, and take outall the bones, then rub it all over with pepper and fait beaten fine, a few fage leaves, and fweet herbs chopped fmall, then roll up your pig tight, and bind it with a fillet, then fill your boiler with foft water, one pint of vinegar, and a handful of fait, eight or ten cloves, a blade or two of mace, a few pep- per corns, and a bunch of fweet herbs; when it boils put in your pig, and boil it till it is ten- der, then take it up, and when it is almoft cold, bind it over again, and put it into an earthen pot, and pour the liquor your pig was boiled in upon it, keep it covered, and it is fit for ufe. T$THE EXPERIENCED To 3G2 To collar Swine’s Face. CHOP the face in many places, and wafh it in feveral waters, then boil it till the meat will leave the bones, take out the bones, cut open the ears, and take out the ear roots, cut the meat in pieces, and fealon it with pepper and fait 3 while it is hot put it into an earthen pot, but put the ears round the outfide of the meat, put a board on that will go on the inlide of the pot, and fet a heavy weight upon it, and let it ftand all night, the next day turn it out, cut it round-ways, and it will look clofe and bright. To make Mock Brawn. TAKE a piece of the belly party and the head of a young porker, rub it with falt-petre, and let it lie three days, then wa£h it dean, fplit thehead and boil it, then take out the bones, and cut it in pieces, then takfe four ox feet boiled tender and cutin thin pieces, lay them inyour belly piece with the head cut fmall, then roll it up tight with flieet tin, that a trencher will go in at each end, boil it four or five hours 3 when it comes out, fet it upon one end and prefs the trencher down with a large lead weight, let it ftand all night, and in the morning take it out of your tin, and bind it with a white fillet, put it into cold lalt and water, and it will be fit for ufe. N. B. You muft make frefh fait and water every four days, and it will keep a long time.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3,0.3 To collar Flat Ribs of Beef. BONE your beef, lay it flat upon a table, and beat it half an hour with a wooden mallet till it is quite foft, then rub it with flx ounces of brown fugar, four ounces of common fait, and one ounce of falt-petre beat fine, let it lie then for ten days, and turn it once every day, take it out, then put it in warm water for eight or ten hours, then lay it flat upon a table, with the out- ward fkin down, and cut it in rows, and a-crofs, about the breadth of your finger, but take care you do not cut the outfide fldn 5 then fill one nick with chopped parfley, the fecond with fat pork, the third with crumbs of bread, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, then parfley, and fo on till you have filled all your nicks; then roll it up tight, • and bind it round with coarfe broad tape, wrap it in a cloth and boil it four or five hours; then take it up, and hang it up by one end of the firing to keep it round, fave the liquor it was boiled in, the next day ikim it, and add to it half the quantity of allegar as you have liquor, and a little mace, long pepper, and fait, then put in your beef, and keep it for ufe. AT. R.When you fend it to the table cut a little off both ends, and it will be in diamonds of different colours, and look very pretty, fet it upon a difh as you do brawn j if you make a frefli pickle every week it will keep a long time. * To collar Beef. SALT your beef, and beat it as before, then rub it over with the yolks of eggs, flrew over-it two304 't'HE E^tPERIENCED two'large handfuls of parfley fhred fmalj, half an ounce of mace, black pepper and fait to your tafte, roll it up tight, and bind it about with a coarfe broad tape, and boil it till it is tender j make a pickle for it the fame way as before. *Toforce a Round of Beef. TAKE a good round of beef, and rub over it a quarter of an hour with two ounces of fait petre, the fame of bay fait, half a pound of brown fugar, and a pound of common fait, let it lie in it for ten or twelve days, turn it ooce every day in the brine, then waflt it well, and make holes in it with a penknife about an inch one from another, and fill one hole with fhred parfley, a fecond with fat pork cut in fmall pieces, and a third with bread crumbs, heef marrow, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, mixed together, then parfley, and fo on till you have filled all the holes, then wrap your beef in a cloth, and bind it with a fillet, and boil it four hours j when it is cold, bind it‘over again, and cut a thin flioe off before you fend it to the table : garnifh with parfley and red cabbage. To foiife a Turkey. KILL your turkey and let it hang four or five days in the feathers, then pick it and flit it up the back, and take out the entrails, bone it* and bind it with a piece of matting like flurgeon or Newcaflle falmon, fet over the fire a clean faucepan, with a pint of ftrong allegar, a fcore of cloves, three or four blades of mace, a nut- ineg, 0ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEfE-R. 305^ hieg fliced, a few pepper corns,, and a handful of fait, when it boils put in the turkey, and boil it one hour, then take it up, and when cold, put it into an earthen pot, and pour the. liquor over it, and keep it for ufe j when yoii fend it to table lay fprigs of fennel over it. • f ■ / «. • To foiife Pigs Feet and Ears. CLEAN your pigs feet and earsj and boil them till they are tender, then fplit the feet, and’ put them into fait and water with the ears j when you ufe them dry them well with a cloth, and dip them in batter made of flour and eggsj fry them a good brown, and fend them up with good melted butter.—7V^ B. You may eat them cold ; make frelh pickle every two daySj and they will keep fdme time. Tofoufe TkiPEi. WHEN your tripe is boiled, put it into fait and water, change the fait and water every day till you ufe it, dip it in batter, and fry it as the pigs feet and ears, or boil it in frefh fait and water, with an onion fliced, and a few fprigs of parfley, and, fend melted butter for fauce. 1 To Tang a Surloin of Beef to roafi. TAKE the fuet out of a furloin, and rub it half an hour with one ounce of falt-petre, four ounces of common falti and half a pound of brown fugar, hang it up ten or twelve.days, then waQi it, and roaft it j you may eat it either hot or cold.3o6 the experienced 7^? fait Hams. AS foon as your hams are cut out, rub them very well with one ounce of falt-petre, half an ounce of fait prunella pounded, and one pound of common fait to every ham, lay them in lead or earthen fait pans for ten days, turn them once in the time, then rub them well with more com- mon fait, let them lie ten days longer, and turn them every day, then take them out, and fcrape them exceeding clean, and dry them well with a clean cloth, and rub it flightly over with a lit- tle fait, and hang them up to dry, T!ofmoke Hams. WHEN you take your hams out of the pk- kle, and have rubbed them dry with a coarfe cloth, hang them in a chimney, and make afire of oak fliavings, and lay over it horfe litter, and one pound of juniper berries, keep the fire fmo- thered down for two or three days, and then hang them up to dry. Tlofait Chops. THROW over your chops a handful of fait, and lay them fkin-fide down aflant on a board, to let all the blood run from them; the next day pound to every pair of chops one ounce of bay fajt, the fame of falt-petre, two ounces of brown fugar, and half a pound of common fait, mix them together, and rub them exceeding well, let them lie ten days in your falting ciftern, thenENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.’ 307 rub them with common fait, and let them lie a week longer, and rub them clean, and hang them to dry in a dry place. ^o falt Bacon. WHEN your pig is cut down, cut ofF the hams and head, if it be a large one cut out a chine, but leave in the fpare ribs, it keeps the bacon from rufting, and the gravy in, fait it with common fait, and a little falt-petre, (but neither bay fait nor fugar) let it lie ten days on a table, that will let all the brine run from it, then fait it again ten or twelve days, turning it every day after the fecond falting, then fcrapeijt very clean, rub a little dry fait on it, and hang it up.—N. B. Take care to fcrape the white froth off very clean that is on it, which is caufed by the fait to work out of your pork, and rub on a little dry fait, it keeps the bacon from ruft- ing; the dry fait will candy and fhine like dia- monds on your bacon. 1^0fait Tongues. SCRAPE your tongues, and dry them clean with a cloth, and fait them well with common flit, and half an ounce of falt-petre to every tongue, lay them in a deep pot, and turn them every day for a week or ten days, fait them again, and let them lie a week longer, take them up, dry them w'ith a cloth, flout them, and hang them up.308 THE EXPERIENCED 'to fait a Leg of Mutton^ POUND one ounce of bay fait, and half art ounce of falt-petre, and rub it all over your leg of mutton, and let it lie all night; the next day fait ,it well with common fait, and let it lie a week or ten days, then hang it up to dry. » • ^ ^ to pickle Vo'P.Yi. CUT your pork in fuch pieces as will be mod convenient to lie in your powdering tub, rub every piece all over with falt-petre, then take one part :bay fait, and two parts common fait, a^d rub every piece well, lay the pieces as clofe as poflible in your tub, and throw a little fait over.. to pickle Beef. TAKE fixteen quarts of cold water and put to it as much fait as will make it bear an egg, then add two pounds of bay fait, half a pound of falt-petre pounded fmall, and three pounds of brown fugar; mix all together, then put your beef into it, and keep it in a dry copl place. CHAP. XIV. Ohfervations on VOSSETSf Gruels, &c. IN making poITets, always mix a little of the hot cream or milk with your wine, it will keep the wine from curdling the reft, and take the cream off the fire before you mix all toge- therrENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 309 t1ier.—Obferve in making gruels, that you boil them in well tinned faucepans, for nothing wiU fetch the verdigreafe out of copper looner than acids or wine^ which are the chief ingredients in gruels, fagos, and wheys ; do not let your gruel or fago ^im over, for it boils into them ^nd makes them a muddy colour. ^0 make a Sack Posset. GRATE two Naples bifcui'ts into a pint of thin cream, put in a ftick of cinnamon,'and fet it over a flow fire, boil it till it is of a proper thicknefs j then add half a pint of fack, a flice of the end of a lemon, with lugar to your tafte ; fiir it gently over the fire, but do not let it boil left it curdle, ferveit up with dry toaft. 'To make a Brandy Posset. BOIL a quart of cream over a flow fire, with a ftick of cinnamon in it, take it off to cool, beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, and mix them with the cream, add nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it one way; when it is like a fine thin cuftard, take it off^ and pour it into your turcne or bowl, with a glafs of brandy, ftir it gently together, and ferve it up with tea wafers round it, To make a Lemon Posset. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf very fine, and put it into rather more than a pint of water, with half a lemon peel grated, or fugar rubbed upon it to take out the eflence, boil them X 3 together•316 THE EXPERIENCED together till it looks thick and clear, then beat it very well j-«-to the juice of half a lemon, put in a pint of mountain wine, three ounces of Jordan almonds, and one ounce of bitter, beat fine with a little orange flower, or French brandy, and fugar to your tafl:e, mix it well and put it in your pofTet, ferve it up in a turene or bowl.— N» B, An orange poflTet is made the fame way. *To make an Almond Posset. \ GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf very fine, pour a pint of boiling milk upon it, let it (land two or three hours, then beat it ex- ceeding well, add to it a quart of good cream, four ounces ©f almonds blanched and beat as fine as poflible, with rofe water, mix them all well together, and fet them over a very flow fire, and boil them a quarter of an hour, then fet it to cool, and beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with your cream ; when it is cold, fweeten it to your tafte j then fl:ir it over a flow fire, till it grows pretty thick, but do not let it boil, ^t will curdle 5 then pour it into a china bowl; when you fend it to table, put in three macaroons to fwim on the top.—It is proper for top at fupper. To make a Wine Posset. TAKE a quart of new milk, and the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil them till they are foft, when you take it oflr the fire, grate in half a nut- meg, and fugar to your tafte, theO put it into a china bowl, and put it in a pint of Lilbon wine ’ carefully.ENGLISH house-keeper: 311 carefully, a little at a time, or it will m^ke the curd hard and tough j ferve it up with toaft and butter uporfi a plate. To make an Ale Posset. PUT a little white bread in a pint of good milk, fet it over the fire, than warm a little more than a pint of good llrong ale, with nut- meg and fugar to your tafte, then put it in a bowl, when your milk boils pour it upon your ale, let it ftand a few minutes to clear, and the curd wUl rife to the top. io Wine. GRATE half a nutmeg into a pint of wme, and fweeten it to your tafte with loaf fugar, fet it over the fire, and when it boils take it off to cool, beat the yolks of four eggs exceeding well, add to them a little cold wine, then mix them carefully with your hot wine, a little at a time, then pour it backwards and forwards feveral times till it looks fine and bright, then fet it on. the fire, and heat it a little at a time for feveril times till it is quite hot and pretty thick, and pour it backwards and forwards feveral times then fend it in chocolate cups, and ferve it up with dry toaft: cut in long narrow pieces. To mull Ale. TAKE a pint of good flrong ale, put it into a faucepan, with three or four cloves, nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, fet it over the fire, when X 4 it31? , THE EXPERIENCED it boils take it ofF to cool, beat the yolks of fouc eggs very well, and mix them with a little col4 ale, then putifto your warm ale, and pour, it in and out of your pan for feveral times, then fet it over a flow fire and heat it a little, then take it off again and heat it -two or three times till it is quiie hot, then ferve it up virith dry toafl:, To make mulled Wine, • BOIL a quart of ne:w milk five minutes with a flick of cinnamon, nutmeg, and fugar to your tafte,' then take it off the fire and let it ftand to cool, beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, and mix them with a little cold'cream, then mix them with your milk, and pour it backwards and forwards the fame as you do mulled ale, and fend it to the table with a plate of bifcuits. ... . . t ■ • To make Beef Tea. f ■■■ TAKE a pound of lean beef, cut It in very thin flices, put it into ajar, and pour a quart of ^ boiling water upon it, cover it very clofe to keep in the fleam, let it ftand hy the fire, it is very good for a weak conftitution, it muft be drank when it is new milk warm. . , Chicken Brot^, SKIN a fmall chicken, and fplit it in two, and boil one half in three'half pints of water, with a blade or two of mace, a fmall cruft of white bread, boil it over a flow' fire till it is reduced to ' ^ ■■ half . .1 i\ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. ' 31^ I half the quantity, pour it into a bafon, and t'al^c pff the fat, and fend it up with a dry. tpaft, To make Chicken Water. SKIN half a fowl, break the bones, and cut the defh as thin as poffible, then put it into a jar, and pour a pint of boiling water upon it, cover it clofe up, and fet it by the fire for three hours, and it will be ready to drink. To makeM.\3TTon Broth. TAKE the ferag end of a neck of mutton, chop it into fmall pieces, put it into a faucepan, and fill it with water, fet it over the fire, and when the feum begins to rife, take it clean off, and put in a blade or two of mace, a little French barley, / or a cruft of white bread to thicken it; when you have boiled your mutton that it will fhake to pieces, ftrain your broth through a hair fieve, feum off the fat, and fend it up with dry toaft. To White Wine Whey, PUT a pint of fkimmed milk, and half a pint of white wine into a bafon, let it ftand a few minutes, then pour over it a pint of boiling wa- ter, Jet it ftand a little, and the curd will gather in a lump, and fettle to the bottom, then pour your whey into a china bowl, and put in a lump of fugar, a fprig of balm, or a flice of lemon. ToTHE EXPERIENCED 2 To 3H "To make Scurvy Grass Whey. Boil a pint of blue milk, take it off to cool, then put in two fpoonfuls of the juice of fcurvy grafs, and two fpoonfuls of good old verjuice, fet it over the fire, and it will turn to a fine wheyj it is very good to drink in the fpring for the fcurvy. Ti? make Cream of Tartar Whey. PUT a pint of blue milk over the fire, when it begins to boil, put in two tea fpoonfuls of cream of tartar, then take it off the fire, and let it Hand till the curd fettles to the bottom of the pen, then pour it into a bafon to cool, and drink it milk warm. To make Barley Water. TAKE two ounces of barley, boil it in two quarts of water till it looks white, and the barley grows foft, then ftrain the water from the bar- ley, add to it a little currant jelly or lemon.— N. B. You may put a pint more water to your barley, and boil it over again. « Tamake Groat Gruel; BOIL half a pint of groats in three pints of water or more, as you woul'd have your gruel for thicknefs, with a blade or two of mace in it 5 when your groats are foft, put in it white wine and fugar to your tafte, then take it off the fire, put to it a quarter of a pound of currants wafhed and picked, put it in a China bowl, with a toaft of bread round it, cut in long^narrow pieces.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3T5 To make Sago Gruel. TAKE four ounces of fago, give it a fcald in hot water, then drain it through a hair fieve, and put it over tjie fire with two quarts of water and a diet of cinnamon, keep feumming it till it grows thick and clear, when your lago is enough, take out the cinnamon and put in a pint of red wine, if you would have it very drong put in more than a pint, and fweeten it to your tade, then fet it over the fire to warm, but do not let it boil after the wine is put in, it weakens the tade, and makes the colour not fo deep a red, pour it into a turene, and put in a dice of lemon, when you are fending it to table. It is proper for a top difh for fupper. To make Sago with Milk. WASH your fago in warm water, and fet it over the fire with a dick of cinnamon, and as much water as will boil it thick and foft, then put in as much thin cream or new milk as will make it a proper thicknefs, grate in half a nut- meg, fweeten it to your tade and ferve it up in a China bowl or turene.—It is proper for a top difh for fupper. To make'QA.'R'L'EY Gruel. TAKE four ounces of pearl barley, boil it in two quarts of water with a dick of cinnamon in it, till it is reduced to one quart, add to it a lit- tle more than a pint of red wine, and fugar to your tade, wafh and pipk two or three-ounces of currants very clean. To316 THE experienced l‘o make Water Gruel. take one fpoonful of oatmeal, boil it irj three pints of water for an hour and a half, or till it is fine and fmooth, then take it off the fire and'let it ftand to fettle, then pour it in a china bowl, and add white wine, fugar, and a nutmeg to your taftc, ferve it up hot with a toafl buttered upon a plate. '^LO make a fweet P a n a d o. CUT all the crufi: off a penny loaf, flicc the reft very thin and put, it into a faucepan with a pint of water, boil it till it is very foft and looks clear, then put in a glafs of fack or Madeira wine, grate in a little nutmeg, and put in a lump of butter the fize of a walnut, and fugar to your tafte, beat it exceeding fine, then .put it in a deep loup difli and ferve it up. N. B. You may leave out the wine and fugar, and put in a little ' ^ood cream and a little fait, if you like it better, To make Chocolate. SCRAPE four ounces of chocolate and pour aquartof boiling water upon it,’millit well with a chocolate mill, and fweeten it to your taffe, give it a boil and let it ffand all night, then mill it again very well, boil it two minutes, then mill it till it will leave a froth upon the top of your cups. CHAP.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, py CHAP. XV. Ohfervations on Wines, Catchup, and Vinegar. WINE is a very neceffary thing in mofl: fa- milies, and is often fpoiled through mifr management of putting together, for if you let it Hand too long before you get it cold, and do not take great care to put your barm upon it in time, it fummer-beams and blinks in the tub, fo that it makes your wine fret in the cafe, and will not let it fine; it is equally as great a fault to let it work too long in the tub, for that takes ofiF all the fweetnefsand flavour of the fruit or flowers your wine is made from, fo the only caution I can give, is to be careful in following the re- ceipts, and to have your veflels dry, rinfe them with brandy, and clofe them up as foon as your wine has done fermenting. T“o make Lemon Wine to drink like Citron Water. Pare five dozen of lemons very thin, put the peels into five quarts of French brandy, and let them ftand fourteen days, then make the juice into a fyrup with three pounds of fingle refined fugar; when the peels are ready, boil fifteen gallons of water with forty pounds of fingle re- fined fugar for half an hour, then put it into a tub, when cool add to it one fpoonful of barm, let it work two days, then tun it, and put in the brandy, peels, and fyrup, ftir them all together, andV 3i8 the experienced and clofe up your cafk, let it ftand three months" then bottle it, and it will be pale and as fine as any citron water; it is more like a cordial than wine. Lemon Wine a fecond Way. TO one gallon of water, put three pounds of powder fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour; fcum it well, then pour it on the rinds of four lemons pared very thin,make the juice into a thick fyrup, with half a pound'of the above fugar, take a flice of bread toalfed and fpread on it a fpoonful of new barm, put it in the liquor when luke warm, and let it work two days, then turn it into your cafk, and Ifet it fland three months, and then, bottle it. make Orange Wine. TO ten gallons of water, add twenty-four pounds of lump fugar, beat the whites of fix eggs very well, and mix them when the water is cold, then boil it an hour, fcum it very well, take four dozen of the roughed and largeft Seville oranges you can get, pare them very thin, put them into a tub,' and put the liquor on boiling hot, and when you think it is cold enough add to it three or four fpoonfuls of new yeft; with the juice of the oranges, and half an ounce of cochineal beat fine, and boiled in a pint of water, ftir it all to- gether, and let it work four days, then put it in thecafks, and in fix wrecks time bottle it for ufe, make Orange Wine fecond Way. TO ten gallons of water, add twenty-feven pounds of lump fugar, boil it one hour, Ikim itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 519 It all the time, then take the peels of five do?en of oranges, pared very thin, put them into a tub; when you take the liquor off the fire, 'pour it upon them, and when it is almoft cold add to it three fpoonfuls ©f good yeft and free from being bitter, with the juice of all your oranges; let it work two or three days, flir it twice a day, then put it into a barrel with one quart of mountain wiae, and four ounces of the fyrup of citron ; flir it well in the liquor; leave the barrel open till it has done working, then clofe it well up, let it fland fix weeks, and then bottle it. To make Orange Wine a third Way,. \ TAKE fix gallons of water, and fifteen pounds of powder fugar, the whites of fix eggs well beat, boil them all three quarters of an hour, and fcuin it well; when it is cold for working, take fix fpoonfuls of good yeft, and fix ounces of the fyrup of lemons, mix them well, and add it to the liquor, with the juice and peel of fifteen oranges; let it work two days and one night, then tun it, and in three months bottle it. To make Smyrna Raisin Wine. TO one hundred of raifins put twenty gal- lons of water, let it ftand fourteen days, then,, put it into your cafk; when it has been in fix months, add to it one gallon of French brandy, and when it is fine then bottle it.. To make Elder Raisin Wine. TO every gallon of water put fix pounds of Malaga raiftns fhred fmall, put them into a vef- fel,320 THE EX^ERiENCEb fel, pour the water on them boiling hot, and let it Hand nine days, ftirring it twice every day, get the elder berries when full ripe, pick them off the ftalks, put them into an earthen pot, and fet them in a moderate oven all night, then ftraiil them through a coarfe cloth, and to every gal- lon of liquor add one quart of this juice, flir it well together, then toaft a flice of bread, and fpread three fpoonfuls of yeft on both fides, and put it in your wine, ’and let it work a day of two, then tun it into your cafk, fill it up as it works over, when it has done working, clofe it up, and let it. Hand one. year. To make Raisin Wine another Way. BOIL ten gallons of fpring water one hour; when it is milk warm, to every gallon add fix pounds of Malaga raifins, clean picked and half chopped, ftirit up together twice a day foi: riinq or ten days,- then run it through a hair fieve, and fqueeze the raifins well with your hands, and, put the liquor in your barrel, bung it clofe up^ and let it fland three months and then bottle it. » . - . . . ^ To make Ginger Wine. TAKE four gallons of fpring water, and feven', pounds of Lifbon fugar, boil it a quarter ot an hour, and keep feumming it well when the liquor is cold fqueeze in the juice of two le- mons, then boil the peel with two ounces of ginger in three pints of water one hour • whert it is cold put it all together into a barrel, 'Cv'itH 1 two'" fENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, yi two fpoonfuls of yeft, a quarter of an ounce of ifinglafs beat very thin, and two pounds of jar raifins, then clofe it up, and let it ftand feven weeks, then bottle^it; the beft feafon to make it is the fpring. To make Pearl Gooseberry Wine. TAKE as many of the bed: pearl goofeberries when ripe as you pleafe, bruife them with a wooden peftle in a tub, and let them (land all night, then prefs and fqueeze them through a hair fieve, let the liquor Rand feven or eight hours, then pour it clear from the fcdiments; and to every three pints of liquor add a pound of double refined fugar, and ftir it about till it is melted, then put to it five pints of water, and two pounds more of fugar, then diffolve half an ounce of ifinglafs in part of the liquor that has been boiled, put all in your calk, Rop it well up for three months, then bottle it, and put in every bottle a lump of double refined fugar.— This is excellent wine. To make Gooseberry Wine a fecond Way. TO a gallon of water put three pounds of lump fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and fcum it very well, then let it Rand till it is al- moR cold, and take four quarts of goofeborries when full ripe, bruife them in a marble mor- tar, and put them in your vefiel, then pour in the liquor and let it Rand two days, and Rir it every four hours, Reep half an ounce of ifinglafs322 THE EXPERIENCED in a pint of brandy two days, ftrain the wing through a flannel bag into a calh, then beat the ifinglafs in a marble mortar with five whites of eggs, then whifk them together half an hour, and put it in the wine and beat them all together, clofe up your calk and put clay over it, let it ftand fix months, then bottle it off for life, put in each bottle a lump of fugar and two raifins of the fun; this is a very rich wine, and when it has been kept in the bottles two or three years, will drink like champagne. To Blackberry Wine. GATHER your berries when they are full ripe, take twelve quarts, and crufh'them with your hand, boil fix gallons of water with twelve pounds of brown fugar a quarter of an hour, fcum it well, then pour it on the blackberries, and let it Rand all night, then flrain it through a hair fieve, put into your calk fix pounds of Malaga raifins a little cut, then put the wine into the calk with one ounce of ifinglafs, which mufl; be dififolved in a little cyder, ilir it all up toge- ther, clofe it up, and let it ftand fix months, arid then bottle it. To make Raspberry Wine. GATHER your rafpberries when full ripe and quite dry, crufti them diredtly and mix them with fugar, it will preferve the flavour which they would lofe in two hours; to every quart of rafpberries put a pound of fine powder fugar, whenENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 323 Vvhen you have got the quantity you intend to make, to every quart of rafpberries add two pounds more of fugar, and one gallon of cold water, ffir it well together, and let it ferment three days, flirring it five or fix times a day, then put it in your calk, and for every gallon put in two whole eggs, take care they are not broke in putting them in, clofe it well up, and let it Hand three months, then bottle it.— N. B. If you gather the berries when the fun is hot upon them, and be quick in making your wine, it will keep the virtue in the rafpberries, and make the wine more pleafant. To make Red Currant Wine. GATHER the currants when full ripe, ftrip them from the ftems, and fqueeze out the juice; to one gallon of the juice put two gallons of cold water, and two fpoonfuls of yeft, and let it work two days, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, at the fame time put one ounce of ifing- glafs to lleep in cyder, and to every gallon of li- quor add three pounds of loaf fugar, flir it well together, put it in a good calk : to every ten gal- lons of wine put two quarts of brandy, mix them all exceeding well in your cafk, clofe it well up, let it Hand four months, then bottle it. To make Currant Wine another way. TAKE an equal quantity of red and white currants, bake them an hour in au>^derate oven, then fqueeze them through a ccarfe cloth, what y 2 water324 the experienced water you intend to ufe have ready boiling, and to every gallon of water put in one quart of juice and three pounds of loaf fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, fcuni it well, then put it in a tub, when cool toaft a flice of bread and fpread on both fides two fpoonfuls of yeft, and let it work three days, ftir it three or four times a day, then put it into a calk, and to every ten gallons of wine add a quart of French brandy,and the whites of ten eggs well beat, make the calk clofe up, and let it ftand three months, then bottle it.—N. B. This is a pale wine, but it is a very good one for keeping, and drinks pleafant. To make Sycamore Wine. TAKE two gallons of the fap and boil it half an hour, then add to it four pounds of fine pow- der fugar, beat the whites of three eggs to a froth, and mix them with the liquor, but if it be too hot, it will poach the eggs, fcum it very well, and boil it half an hour, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and let it fland till next day, then pour it clean from the fediments, put half a pint of good yeft to every twelve gallons, cover k clofe up with blankets till it is white over, then put it into the barrel, and leave the bung-hole open till it has done working, then clofe it well up, let it Rand three months, then bottle it, the fifth part of the fugar muft be loaf, and if you like raifins, they are a great ad- dition to the wine. N, B. You may make birch wine the fame way. ToENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 325 To make Birch Wine a fecond Way. BOIL twenty gallons of birch water half an hour, then put in thirty pounds of baftard fugar, boil your liquor and i^ngar three quarters of an. hour, and keep fcumming it all the while, then put it into a tub and let it Hand till it is quitd cold, add to it three pints of yeft, flir it three or four times a day for four or five days, then put it into a calk with two pounds of Malaga raifins, and one pound of loaf fugar, and half an ounce of ifinglafs, which mufi: be difiblved in part of the liquor, then put to it one gallon of new ale that is ready for tunning, work it very well in the calk five or fix days, then clofe it up and let it Hand a year, then bottde it off. To Walnut Wine. TO every gallon of water put two pounds of brown fugar and one pound of honey, boil them half an hour, and take off the fcum, put into the tub a handful of walnut leaves to every gal- lon and pour the liquor upon them, let it Hand all night, then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeft, and let it work fourteen days, beat it four or five times a day, which will take off the fweetnefs, then flop up the calk, and let ‘it ftand fix months.—This is a good wine againft; confumptions, or any inward complaints. T(? make Cowslip Wine. TO two gallons of water add two pounds an4 a half of powder fugar, boil them half ar lour, Y 3 and^^6 "rHE EXPERIENCED ^nd take off the fcum as it rifes, then pour it into a tub to cool, with the rinds of two lemons j when it is cold add four quarts of cowflip flow- ers to the liquor, with the juice of two lemons, let it ftand in the tub two days, ftirring it every two or three hours, and then put it in the bar- rel, and let it ftand three weeks or a month, then bottle it, and put a lump of fugar into every bottle.' N, B. It makes the beft and ftrongeft wine to have only the tops of the peeps, A fecond Way to make Cowslip Wine. BOIL twelve gallons of water a quarter of an hour, then add two pounds and a half of loaf fugar to every gallon of water, then boil it as long as the fcum rifes till it clears itfelf, when almoft cold pour it into a tub, with one fpoon- ful of yeft, let it work one day, then put in thirty-two quarts of cowflip flowers, and let it work two or three days, then put it all into a barrel, with the parings of twelve lemons, the fame of oranges, make the juice of them into a thick fyrup, with two or three pounds of loaf fugarj when the wine has done working, add the fyrup to it, then flop up your barrel very well and let it ftand two or three months, then bottle it, T’o make Elder Flower Wine, TAKE the flowers of elder, and be careful that you do not let any ftalks in, to every quart of ■flowers put one gallon of water and three pounds of loaf fugar, boil the water and fugar a quar- ter of an hour, then pour it on the flowers, andENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 327 let it work three days, then ft rain thewineth rough a hair fieve, and put it into a calk, j to every ten gallons of wine add one ounce of ifinglafs dif- folved in cyder, and fix whole eggs, clofe it up, and let it ftand fix months, and then bottle it., T’o makeWine. TAKE nine gallons of water to forty pounds of fugar, boil them gently for two hours, Icum it well, then put it into a tub to cool, then take two pounds and a half of the tops of balm, bruife it, and put it into a barrel with a little new yeft, and when the liquor is cold, pour it on the balm, ftir it well together, and let it ftand twenty-four hours, and keep ftirring it often, then clofe it up, and let it ftand fix weeks, then rack it oft', and put a lump of fugar into every bottle, cork it well, and it will be better the feeond year than the firft. N. B. Clary wine is made the fame way. ' To make Imperial Water, PUT two ounces of cream of tartar into a large jar, with the juice and peels of two lemons, pour on them fcven quarts of boiling water, when it is cold, clear it through a gauze fieve, fweeten it to your tafte, and bottle it.—Jt will be fit to ufe the next day. To cure acid Raisin Wine., THE following ingredients muft be propor- tioned to the degrees of acidity or fournefs, if hut fmali, you muft ufe lefs, if a ftronger acid, a larger quantity, it muft be proportioned to the quantity of wine, as well as the degree of acidity Y 432S THE EXPERIENCED or fournefs; be fure that the cafk be near full before you apply the ingredients, which will have this good efedt, the acid part of the wine will rife to the top immediately, and ilTue out at the bung-hole, but if the calk be not full, the part that Ihould fly off will continue in the calk, and weaken the body of tlie wine, but if your calk be full, it will be ready to have a body laid on it in three or four days time.—I lhall here proportion the ingredints for a pipe j fup- poling it to be quite acid, that is juft recoverable. Take two gallons of Ikimmed milk, and two ounces of ifinglafs, boil them a quarter of an hour, ftrain the liquor and let it ftand until it is cold, then break it well with your whilk, add to it four pounds of alabafter, and three pounds of whiting, ftir them well up together, then put in one ounce of fait of tartar, mix by degrees a little of the wine with it fo as to dilTolve it to a thin liquor, put thefe in your calk, and ftir it well with a paddle, and it will immediately dif- charge the acid part from it as before mentioned; when it has done fermenting, bung it up for three days, then rack it off, and you will find part of its body gone off by the' ftrong fermentation ; to remedy this, you muft lay a frelh body on in proportion to the degree to which it hath been lowered by the above method, always having a fpecial care not to alter its flavour, and this muft be done with clarified fugar, for no fluid will agree with it, but what will make it thinner, or confer its own tafte, therefore the following is the beft method for performing it: to lay a frelh body on wine, take three quarters of an hun- dredENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 329 dred of brown fugar, aad put it into your cop- pq-, then put in a gallon of lime water to keep it from burning, ftir it all the while till k-boils, then mafh three eggs and fhells all together, add them to the fugar, and keep it {Hiring about, and as the fcum or filth rifes take it off very clean, then put it in your can, and let it {band till it is cold before you ufe it, then break it with your whifk by degrees, with about ten gallons of the wine, and apply it to the pipe, work it with the paddle an hour, then put a quart of ftum-forcing to it, which will unite their bodies, and make it fine and bright. To make Stum. TAKE a five gallon cafk that has been well foaked in water, fet it to drain, then take a pound of roll brimflone and melt it in a ladle, put as many rags to it as will fuck up the melted brim- ftone, burn all thofe rags in the cafk, cover the bung-hole but let it have a little air, fo that it will keep burning j when it is burned out, put to it three gallons of the flrongefl cyder, and one ounce of common alum pounded, mix it with the cyder in the cafk, and roll it about five or fix times a day, for ten days, then take out the bung, and hang the remainder of the rags on a wire in the cafk, as near the cyder as poinble, and fet them on fire as before, when it is burnt out bung the cafk dole, and roll it well about three or four times a day for two days, then let it Hand feven or eight days, and this liquor will be fo ftrong as to affedt your eyes by looking at it. When you force a pipe of wine take a quart of330 THE EXPERIENCED of this liquor, beat half an ounce of ifinglafs, and pull it in fmall pieces, whifk it together, and it will diflblve in four or five hours, break the jelly with your whifk, add a pound of ala- bafter to it and difiblve it in a little of the wine, then put it in the pipe and bung it clofe up, and in a day’s time it will be fine and bright, refine Malt Liquor. TO cure a hogfhead of four ale: Take two ounces of ifinglafs, diffolve it in two quarts of new ale, and fet it all night by the fire, then take two pounds of coarfe brown fugar, and boil it in a quart of new wort, a quarter of an hour, then put it into a pail, with two gallons of new ale out of the kear, whiflc the above ingredients very W'ell for an hour or more till it be all of a white froth, beat very fine one pound of pkfter of Paris, and put it into your cafk, with the fermentation, and w^hiflc it very well for half an hour in your cafk with a flrong hand, until you have brought all the .filth and fediments from the bottom of your cafk, and-itwill look whiter if your cafk be not full, fill it up with new ale, and the fermentation will have this good efFedj the acid part of the ale will rife to the top im- mediately, and iflue out at the bung hole, but, if the cafk be not full, the part that fhould fly out will continue in, and weaken the body of the ale, be fureyou do not fail filling up your cafk four or five times a day, until it has done work- ing, and all the fournefs or white muddy part is^ gone, and when it begins to look like new tun- IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 33X ned ale, put in a large handful of fpent hops, clofe it up, and let it ftand fix weeks ; if it be not fine, and cream like bottled ale, let it ftand a month longer, and it will drink briik like bot- tled ale j this is an excellent method, and I have ufed it to ale that has been both white and four, and never found it to fail. If you have any malt that you fufped: is not good, fave out twm gal- lons of wort, and a few hours before you want it, add to it half a pint of barm, and when you have tunned your drink into the barrel, and it hath quite done working, make the above fer- mentation, and when you have put it in the bar- rel whilk it very well for half an hour, and it will fet your ale on working afreih, and when the two gallons is worked white over, keep fill- ing up your barrel with it four or five times a day, and let it work fqur or five days, when it has done working clofe it up : if the malt has got any bad fmack or tafie, or be of a fluid nature, this will take it off. 1^0 make Sack Mead. TO every gallon of water add four pounds of honey, boil it three quarters of an hour, and fcum it as before, to each gallon add half an ounce of hops, then boil it half an hour, and let it ftand till the next day, then put it in your calk, and to thirteen gallons of the above liquor, add a quart of brandy or fack, let it be lightly clofed till the fermentation is quite done, then make it up very clofe if it be a large caflc let it ftand a year before you bottle it.THE EXPERIENCED 332 Ttf make Cowslip Mead. TO fifteen gallons of water put thirty pounds of honey, boil it till one gallon is wafted, fcum it, then take it off the fire, have ready fixteen lemons cut in halves, take a gallon of the liquor, and put it to the‘lemons, put the reft of the liquor into a tub, with feven pecks of cowflips, and let them ftand all night, then put in the liquor with the lemons, and eight fpoonfuls of new yeft, a handful of fweet briar, ftir them all well together, and let it work three or four days, then ftrain it, and put it in your cafk, and in fix months time you may bottle it. To make Walnut Mead. To every gallon of water put three pounds and a half of honey, boil them together three quarters of an hour, to every gallon of liquor put about two dozen of walnut leaves, pour your liquor boiling hot upon them, let then! ftand all night, then take the leaves out and put in a fpoouful of yeft, and let it work two or three days, then make it up, and let it ftand three months, then bottle it. Ho make Ozyat. BLANCH a pound of fweet almonds, and the fame of bitter, beat them very fine, with fix fpoonfuls of orange flower water, take three ounces of the four cold feeds, if you beat the almonds, but if you do not beat them, you muft take fix ounces of the four cold feeds, then with two quarts of fpring water, rub your pounded feedsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 333 feeds and almonds fix times through a napkin, then add four pounds of treble refined fugar, boil it to a thin fyrup, Ikim it well, and when it is cold, then bottle it. To make Ozyat a fecond Way. BOIL two quarts of milk with a flick of cinnamon in it, let it ftand till it be quite cold, then blanch two ounces of the beft fweet al- monds, and about ten or twelve bitter almonds, pound them together in a marble mortar with a little rofe water, then mix them well with the. milk, fweeten it to your tafte, and give it one boil, ftrain it through a very fine fieve till it is quite fmooth and free from almonds. Send it up in ozyat glaffes with handles, and quite cold; take great care you do not boil it too much, and that the almonds do not turn to oil. Lemonade for the fame Ufe, TO one quart of boiled water, add the juice of fix lemons, rub the rinds of the lemons with loaf fugar to your own tafte ; when the water is near cold, mix the juice and fugar with it, then bottle it for ufe. To make Lemonade a fecond Way. PARE ,fix or eight large lemons, put the peels into a pint of water, give them a boil, -when cold fqueeze your lemons into it, and put in one pound of fugar, then flrain it through a , lawn fieve to as much water as will make it pleafant;334' the experienced pleafant; juft before you fend it up put in a pint of white wine and the juice of an orange if you like it. To make Lemonade a third Way. TAKE the rinds of lix lemons pared very thin, and put them in a pan with about twelve ounces of fugar, with a quart of pump water made not too hot j let it ftand a night, then fqueeze the juice of your lemons into it, with one fpobnful of orange flower water, and run it through a bag till it looks clear. To makearich Acid for Punch. BAKE red currants and ftrain them as you do for jellies, take a gallon of the juice, put to it two quarts of new milk, crufla pearl goofe- berries when full ripe, and ftrain them through a coarfe cloth, add two quarts of the juice, and three pounds of double refined fugar, three quarts of rum and two of brandy, one ounce of ifinglafs dilTolved in part of the liquor, mix it all up to- gether, and put it in a little cafk, and let it ftand fix weeks, and then bottle it for ufe. It will keep many years and fave much fruit. To make Orange Juice to keep. SQUEEZE your oranges into a pan, then ftrain them through a very coarfe fieve, after that through a very fine fieye; meafure your juice, and to every pint put a pound of fine loaf fugar, let it ftand together all night coveied 1 over.N ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3-5 Over, then take off the fcum, ftir it well in the pan, and put it in dry pint bottles, put in a fpoonful of brandy, after they are filled tie it over the cork with leather ; if you do not choole to put fpirits in, a little oil will do, to be taken off clean before you ufe it-, keep it in a dry place, and it will be good for two years. The pulp that will be in your fine fieve will make marmalade. Ti? make Shrub. TAKE a gallon of new milk, put to it two quarts of red wine, pare fix lemons and four Seville oranges very thin, put in the rinds, and the juice of twelve of each fort, two gallons of rum and one of brandy, let it fland twenty-four hours, add to it two pounds of double refined fugar, and flir it well together, then put it in a jug, cover it clofe up and let it ftand a fortnight, then run it through a jelly bag, and bottle it for ufe. To make Sherbet. T AKE nine Seville oranges and three lemons, grate ©ff the yellow rinds and put the rafpings into a gallon of water, and three pounds of double refined fugar,and boil it to a candy height, then take it off the fire, and put in the juice the pulp of the above, and keep ftirring it until it is almoftcold, then put it in a pot for ufe. To 7nakeJine Sherbet a fecond Way. PARE four large lemons and boil the peels in fix quarts of water and a little ginger cut fine, boil them a quarter of an hour, then add to it three336 THE EXPERIENCED three pounds of fugar, and when it is cold put in the juice of the lemons and Rrain it, and it is fit for ufe. To make Sherbet a third Way. TAKE twelve quarts of water to fix pounds of Malaga raifins, (lice fix lemons into it, with one pound of lixpenny fugar, put them all to- gether into an earthen pan, let it Rand three days, ftirring it three times a day, then take them out, and let them drain in a fiannel bag, then bottle it ; do not fill the bottles too full left they burft. It will be fit to drink in about a fortnight. To make Raspberry Brandy. GATPIER the rafpberries when the fun is hot upon them, and as foon as ever you have got them, to every five quarts of rafpberries put one quart of the beft brandy, boil a quart of water > five minutes with a pound of double refined fugar in it, and pour it boiling hot on the berries, let it ftand all night, then add nine quarts more brandy, ftir it about very well, put it in a ftone bottle, and let it ftand a month or fix weeks; when fine bottle it. % To make Bdack Cherry Brandy. TAKE out the ftones of ei^ht pounds of black cherries, and put on them a gallon of the beft brandy, bruife the fton^in a mortar, then put them in your brandy, rover them up clofc and 2 I letENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPE.R. 337 let them Rand a month or fix weeks, then pour It clear from the fediments and bottle it. T’o 7iiake Orange Brandy. PARE eight oranges very thin, and fteep the peels in a quart of brandy forty-eight hours in a clofe pitcher, then take three pints of water and three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, boil it until it is reduced to half the quantity, then let it ftand till it is cold, then mix it with the brandy j let it fi:and fourteen days, and then bottle it* T^omake Almond ShrUb. TAKE three gallons of rum or brandy, three quarts of orange j uice, the peels of three lemons, three pounds of loaf fugar, then take four ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and beat them fine, mix them in a pint of milk, then mix them all well together, let it ftand an hour to curdle, run it through a flannel bag feveral times till it is clear, then bottle it for ufe. To Currant Shrub. PICK your currants clean from the ftalks when they are full ripe, and put twenty-four pounds into a pitcher, with two pounds of Angle refined fugar, clofe the jug well up, and put it into a pan of boiling water till they are foft, then ftrain them through a jelly bag, and to every quart of juice put one quart of brandy, a pint of red wine, one quart of new milk, a pound of double refined' fugar, and the whites of two eggs well beat, mix them all together, Z and338 THE EXPERIENCED and cover them clofe up two days, then run it through a jelly bag and bottle it for ule. ’To make Walnut Catchup. TAKE green walnuts before the Ihell is formed, and grind them in a crab mill, or pound them in a marble mortar, fqueeze out the juice through a coa'rfe cloth, put to every gallon of juice onepoundof anchovies, one pound of bay fait, four ounces of Jamaica pepper, two of long, and two of black pepper, of mace, cloves, and ginger, each one ounce, and a ftick of horfe- radiih j boil all together till reduced to half the quantity, put it-in a pot, and when cold bottle it; it will be ready in three months. To make Walnut Catchup another Way.. PUT your walnuts in jars, cover them with cold ftrong ale allegar, tie them clofe for twelve months, then take the walnuts out from the allegar, afid put to every gallon of the liquor two heads of garlick, half a pound of ancho- vies, one quart of red wine, one ounce of mace, one of cloves, one of long, one of black, and one of Jamaica pepper, with one of ginger, boil them ail in the liquor till it is reduced to half the quantity, the next day bottle it for ufe; it is good in filE fauce, or ftewed beef. In my opinion it is an excellent catchup, for the longer it is kepi the better it is, I have kept it hvc years, and it was much better than when frfl -N. B. You may hnd how to pickle'X i ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 339 the walnuts you have taken out, amongH: the other pickles. T’o make Mum Catchup. TO a quart of old mum put four ounces of anchovies, of mace and nutmegs fliced one ounce, of cloves and black pepper half an ounce, boil it till it is reduced one third ; when cold bottle it for ufe. 21? make a Catchup to keep /even Tears. TAKE two quarts of the oldeft ftrong beer you can get, put to it one quart of red wine, three quarters of a pound of anchovies, three ounces of lhalots peeled, half dn ounce of mace, the fame of nutmegs j a quarter of an ounce of cloves, three large races of ginger cut in dices, boil all together over a moderate fire, till one third is wafted, the next day bottle it for ufe; it will carry to the Eaft Indies. Ti?Mushroom Catchup. TAKE.the full grown flaps of mufhrooms, crufti them with your hands, throw a handful of fait into every peck of mufhrooms, and let them ftand all night, then put them intoftew-pans, and fet them in a quick oven for twelve hours, and ftrain them through a hair fieve j to every gallon of liquor, put of cloves, Jamaica, black pepper, and ginger, one ounce each, and half a pound of common fait, fet it on a flow fire, and let it boil till half the liquor is wafted away ; then put it in a clean pot, when cold bottle it for ufe. ■% 2 To340 THE EXPERIEl^Cfiiji *To make Mushroom Powder. ' TAKE the thickefl large buttons you can get^ peel them, cut off the root end, but do not waffi them, fpread them feparately on pewter dilhes, and fet them in a flow oven to dry, let the liquor dry up into the mufhrooms^ it makes the powder ffronger, and let them continue in the oven till you find they will powder, then beat them in a marble mortar, and lift them through a fine fieve, with a little Chyan pepper, and pounded mace ; bottle it, and keep it in 2 dry clofet. ‘To makeTA^RAGoii Vinegar. TAKE tarragon juft as it is going into bloom, ftrip off the leaves, and to every pound of leaves put a gallon of ftrong white wine vinegar in a ftone jug to ferment fora fortnight' then run it through a flannel bag > to every four gallons of vinegar put half an ounce of ifinglafs diffolved in cyder, mix it well with vinegar, then put it into large bottles, and let it ftand one month to fine, then rack it off, and put it into pint bot- tles for ufe. Elder Flower Vinegar. TO every peck of the peeps of elder flowers put two gallons of ftrong ale allegar; and fet it in',the fun in a ftone jug for a fortnight, then filter it through a flannel bag ; when you bottle it, put it in fmall bottles, it keeps the flavour much better than large ones. Be careful you do not drop any ftalks among the pee^s. It makesX , ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 341 makes a pretty mixture on a fide* table, with tarragon vinegar, lemon pickle, &c. ' t 'To make Gooseberry Vinegar. TAKE the ripeft goofeberries you can get, crujfh them with your hand in a tub, to every peck of goofeberries put two gallons of water, mix them well together, and let them work for three weeks, ftir them up three or four times a day, then ftrain the liquor through a hair fieve, and put to every gallon a pound of brown fugar, a pound of treacle, a fpoonful of frefh barm, and let it work three or four days in the farne tub well waflied, run it into iron-hooped barrels, and let it hand twelve months, then draw it into bottles for ufe.—rThis far exceeds any white wine vinegar. To make Sugar Vinegar, PUT nine pounds of brown fugar to every fix gallons of water, boil it for a quarter of ari hour, then put it into a tub lukewaVm, put to it a pint of new barm, let it work for four or five days, ftir it up three or four times a day, then tun it into a clean barrel iron-hooped, and fet it full in the fun; if you make it in February it will be fit for ufe in Auguft ; you may ufe it for mod; forts of pickles, except mufhrooms and \valnuts. 3 p H A P.342 ■ THE EXPERIENCED CHAP. XVI.' I O'bfervations Pickling. PICKLING is a very ufeful thing in a fa« mily, but is often ill managed, or at lead: made to pleafe the eye by pdrnicious things, which is the only thing that ought to be avoid- ed, for nothing is more common than to green pickles in a brafs pan 'for the fake of having them a good green, when at the fame time they will green as well by heating the liquor, and keeping them on a proper heat upon the hearth, without the help of brafs, or verdegreafe of any kind, for it is poifon to a great degree, and no- thing ought to be avoided more than ufing brafs or copper that is not well tinned 3 but the beft way, and the only caution I can give, is to be very particular in keeping the pickles from any thing of that kind, Ind follow ftridlly the di- redion of your receipts, as you will find receipts for any kind of pickles, without being put in fait and water at all, and greened only by pouring your vinegar hot upon them, and it will keep theni a long time, To pickle Cucumbers, TAKE the fmallefi; cucumbers you can get, and as free from fpots as poflihle, put them into a firong fait and water for nine or ten days or till they are quite yellow, and ftir them twice a (day at leaft, or they will fcum over, and gro\y foft 3 when they are thoroughly yellow pour the water 'E^'GLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 343 water froltn them, and cover them with plenty of vine leaves, fet your water over the fire, when it boils pour it upon them, and fef them on the hearth to keep warm, when the water grows cool, make it boiling hot again, and pour it upon them, keep doing fo till you fee they are a fine green, which will be in four or five times; be fure you keep them well covered with vine leaves, a cloth and difh over the top to keep in the fleam, it helps to green them fooner; when they are greened, put them into a hair fieve to drain, then make a pickle for them ; to every two quarts of white wine vinegar, put half an ounce of mace, and ten or twelve cloves, one ounce of ginger cut in flices, the lame of black pepper, and a handful of fait, boil them all to- - gether five minutes, then pour it hot upon your pickles, and tie them down with a bladder for ufe.—N. B. You may pickle them with ale alle- gar, or diftilled vinegar; if you ufe vinegar, it muftnot be boiled; you may add three or four cloves of garlick or flaalots, they are very good for keeping the pickle from caning. To pickle Cucumbers a fecond Way. GATHER your cucumbers on a dry day, and put them into a narrow-topped pitcher, put to them a head of garlick, a few white nauftard feeds, and a few blades of mace, half an ounce of black pepper, the fame of long pepper, and ginger, and a good handful of fait into your vinegar; pour it upon your cucumbers boiling hot^ fet them by the fire, and keep them warm ! Z 4 for ' II X ' THE EXPERIENCED for three days, and boil your allegar once every day, and keep them clofe covered till they are. a good green, and then tie them down with d, leather, and keep them for ufe. pickle Cucumbers in Jlices, GET your cucumbers large before the feeds are ripe, flice them a quarter of an inch thick, then lay th,em on a hair iieve, and betwixt every lay put a fhalot or two, throw on a little fait, let them fland four or five hours to drain, then put them in a ftone jar, take as much ftrong ale al- legar as will cover them, boil it five minutes, with a blade or two of mace, a few white pep- , per corns, a little ginger fliced, and fome horfe- radilh feraped, then pour it boiling hot upon your cucumbers, let them ftand till they are cold, do fo for three times more : let it grow cold betwixt every time, then tie them down with a bladder for ufe. To pickle Mangoes. TAKE the largefl: cucumbers you can get, before they are too ripe, or yellow at the, ends, then cut a piece out of the fide, and take out the feeds with an apple feraper, or a tea-fpoon, and put them in a very ftrong fait and water for eight or nine days, or till they are very yel- low, ftir them well two or three times each day, then put them into a brafs pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves both under and over them, beat a little roach alum very fine, and 4ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 345 put it in the fait and water that they came out of, pour it upon your cucumbers, and fet it upon a very flow fire, for four or five hours, till they are a pretty green, then take them out and drain them on a hair fieve, when they are cold, put to them a little horfe-radifli, then muftard feed, two or three heads of garlick, a few pepper corns, dice a few green cucumbers in fmall pieces, then horfe-radifh, and the fame as before mentioned, till you have filled them, then take the piece you cut out, and few it on with a large needle and thread, and do all the reft the fame way, have ready your pickle; to every gallon of allegar put one ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, two ounces of ginger diced, the fame of long pepper, black pepper, Jamaica pepper, three ounces of muftard feed tied up in a bag, four ounces of garlick, and a ftick of horfe- radiih cut in dices, boil them five minutes in the allegar, then pour it upon your pickles, tie them down and keep them for ufe. Ti? Codlings. ^ GET your codlings when they are the fizeof a large French walnut, put a good deal of vine leaves in the bottom of a brafs pan, then put in your codlings, cover them very well with vine leaves, and let them over a very flow fire tiil you can peel the fkins oft', then take them carefully up in a hair fieve, and peel them with a pen- knife, and put them into the fame pan again with the vine leaves and water as before, cover them clofe, and fet them over a flow fire till they areJ 346 THE EXPERIENCED are a fine green, then drain them through a hair fieve, and when they are cold put them into diftilled vinegar,pour a little meat oil on the top, and tie them down with a bladder, Ti?Kidney Beans. GET your beans when they are young and fmall, then put them into a ftrong fait and water for three days, ftir them up two or three times each day, then put .them into a brafs pan, with vine leaves both under an.d over them, pour on the fame water as they came out of, cover thenj. clofe, and fet them over a very flow fire till they are a fine green, then put them into a hair fieve to drain, and make a pickle for them of white wine vinegar, or fine ale allegar, boil it five or fix minutes, with a little mace, Jamaica • pepper, long pepper, and a race or two of gin- ger diced, then pour it hot upon the kidney beans, and tie them down with a bladder. To pickle Samphire. WASH your famphire very well in four fmall beer, then put it into alarge brafs pan, diflblve a little bay fait, and twice the quantity of com- mon fait in four beer, then fill up your pan with it, cover it clofe, and fet it over a flow fire till it is a fine green, then drain it'through a fieve, and put it into jars, boil as much fugar vinegar or white wine vinegar, with a race or two of ginger, and a few pepper corns, as will cover It 3 then pour it hot upon your famphire, and tie it well down.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER*. 347 t T”? pickle Walnuts black, GATHER your walnuts when the fun is hot upon them, and before the fhell is hard, which you may know by running a pin into them, then put them in a ftrong fait and water for nine days, then ftir them twice a day, and change ' the fait and water every three days, then put them in a hair lieve, and let them ftand in the air till they turn black ^ then put them into ftrong ftone jars, and pour boiling allegar over them, cover them up, and let them Rand till they are cold, then boil the allegar three times more, and let it ftand till it is cold betwixt every time j tie them down with paper and a bladder over them, and let them fiand two months, then take them out of the allegar, and make a pickle for them; to every two quarts of allegar put half an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, one ounce of black pepper, the fame of Jamaica pepper, ginger, and long pepper, and two ounces of common fait, boil ic ten minutes, and pour it hot upon your walnuts, and tie them down with a bladder and paper over it. A fecond Way to pickle Walnuts black, WHEN you have got your walnuts as before, put them into a cold ifrong allegar, with a good deal of fait in it, let them fland three months, then pour off the allegar, and boil it with a lit- tle more fait in it, then pour it upon your wal- nuts, and let them ftand till they are cold, make hot again, and pour it upon your walnuts, and doy 348 THE EXPERIENCED do fo till they are black, then put them into a hair fieve, and make a pickle for them the fame way as above, keep them in ftrong ftone jars, and they 'will be fit for ufe in a month or fi:^ weeks time. ^0pickle Walnuts an olive colour, GATHER your walnuts, and put them in a Rrong ale allegar, and tie them down with a bladder and a paper over it, to keep gut the air, V and let them ftand twelve months, then take them out of that allegar, and make a pickle for them of ftrong allegar, and to every quart put half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, the fame of long pepper, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, one head of garlick, and a little fait, boil them all together five or fix minutes, then pour it upon your walnuts; when it is cold, heat it again three times, then tie them down with a bladder, and paper over it; they will keep feveral years, without either turning colour, or growing foft,if your allegar be good.—iV.R.You may make exceeding good catchup of the alle- gar that comes from the walnuts, by adding a pound of anchovies, one ounce of cloves, the fame of long and black pepper, one head of garlick, and half a pound of common fait to every gallon of your allegar; boil it till it is'half reduced away, and fcum it-very well, then bot- tle it for ufe, and it will keep a long time.^:nglish house-keeper; 349 To pickle Walnuts. TAKE the largeft French walnuts, pare them till you can fee the white appear, but take great care you do not cut it too deep, it will make them full of holes, put them into fait and water as you pare them, or they will turn black, when you have pared them all, have ready a faucepan well tinned, full of boiling water, with a little fait, then put in your walnuts, and let them boil five minutes very quick, then take them out, and fpread them betwixt two clean cloths, when they are cold put them into wide mouthed bottles, and fill them up with diflilled vinegar, and put a blade or two of mace, and a large tea fpoonful of eating oil into every bottle; the next day cork them well, and keep them in a dry place. pickle Walnuts green, TAKE the large double, or French walnuts, before the fhells are hard, wrap them fingly in vine leaves, put a few vine leaves in the bottom of your jar, fill it near full with your walnuts, take care that they do not touch one another, put a good many leaves over them, then fill your jar with good allegar, cover them clofe that the air cannot get in, let them fland for three weeks, then pour the allegar from them, put frefh leaves in the bottom of another jar, take out your walnuts, and wrap them feparately in frefh leaves as quick as poliibly you can, put them into your jar with a good many leaves over them, thenN 550 THE EXPERIENCED then fill it with white wine vinegar, let theiti ftand three weeks, pour off your vinegar, and wrap them as before with frefh leaves at the bottom and top of your jar, take frefli white wine vinegar, put fait in it till it will bear an - ^dd to it mace, cloves, nutmeg, and gar- lick if you choofe it, boil it about eight minutes, then pour it on your walnuts, tie them clofe * with paper and a bladder, and fet them by for ufe.——Be fure to keep them always covered ; when you take any out for ufe, what is left muff not be put in again, but have ready a frefh jar with boiled vinegar and fait to put them in. Tlo pickle Barberries. GET your barberries before they are too ripe, pick out the leaves, and dead ffalks, then put them into jars, with a large quantity of ftrong fait and water, and tie them down with a blad- der. N. B. When you fee your barberries feum over put them into frelh fait and water, they need no vinegar, their own lharpnefs is fuf-. ficient enough to keep them. ^0 pickle Parsley green, TAKE a large quantity of curled parfley, make a ftrong fait and water to bear an egg, put in your parfley, let it ffand a week, then take it out to c^rain, make a frefli fait and water as before, let it ffand another week, then drain it very well, put it in fpring water, and change it every day for three days, and fcald it in hard water, till it becomes green, take it out and drain it quite dry, boil a quart of diffilled vinegar a 6 fewENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. ^511 few minutes, with two or three blades of mace, a nutmeg diced, and a (halot or two ; when it is quite cold, pour it on your parfley, with two or three dices of horfe-radifh, and keep it for ufe. ^0 pickle Nasturtians. GATHER the nafturtian berries foon after the blodbms are gone off, put them in cold fait and water, change the water once a day for th^^ee days, make your pickle of white wine vinegar, mace, mutmeg diced, pepper corns, fait, (ha.- lots, and horfe-radidi; it requires to be made pretty hrong, as your pickle is not to be boiled; when you have drained them, put them into a jar, and pour the pickle over them* pickle Radish Pods. GATHER your radidi pods when they are quite young, and put them in fait and water all night, then boil the fait and water they were laid in, and pour it upon your pods, and cover your jars clofe to keep in the fleam; when it grows cold, make it boiling hot, and pour it on again; keep doing lb till your pods are quite green, then put them on a deve to drain, and make a pickle for them of white wine vinegar, with a little mace; ginger, long pepper, and horfe-radifh, pour it boiling hot upon yourpods, when it is almofl cold, make your vinegar twice hot as before, and pour it upon them, and tie thent down with a bladder.352 . THE EXPERIENCED To pickle Elder Shoots. GATHER your elder fhoots when they are the thieknefs of a pipe-Ihank, put them into fait and water all night, then put the'm into ftone jars in layers, and betwixt .every layer flrew a little muftard feed, and fcraped horfe- radifh, a few fl:ialots, a little white beet root, and cauliflower pulled in fmall pieces, then pour boiling allegar upon it, and fcald it three times, and it will belike piccalillo, or Indian pickle; tie a leather over it, and keep it in a dry place. To pickle E)lder Buds. GET your elder buds when they^are the fize of hop buds, and put them into a ftrong fait and water for nine days, and ftir them two or three'times a day, then put them into a brafs pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour the water on them that they came out of, and fet them over a flow fire till they are quite green, then make a pickle for them of allegar, a little mace, a few fhalots, and fome ginger fliced, boil them two or three minutes, and pour it upon your buds; tie them down, and keep them ^ in a dry place for ufe. ToBeet Roots. TAKE red beet roots and boil them till they are tender, then take the fkins off, and cut them in flices, and gimp them in the fliape of wheels, flowers, or what form you pleafe, and put them into a jar, then take as much vinegar as you thinkENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 353 think will cover them, and boil it with a little mace, a race of gingcf diced, and a few dices of horfe-radidi, pour it hot upon your roots, and tie them down.—They are a very pretty garnifh for made didies. T'o picJzle CaulYFLOWERs. TAKE the clofed; and whited; caulydowers your can get, and pull them in bunches, and fpread them on an earthen didi, and lay fait all over them, let them fland for three days to bring put all the water, then put them in earthen jars, and pour boiling fait and water upon them, and let them ftand all night, then drain them on a hair deve, and put them into glafs jars, and dll up your jars with diftilled vinegar, and tie them clofe down with leather. ' Afecond Way to pickle Caulyflowers. PULL your caulydowers in bunches as be- fore, and give them juft a, fcald in fait and water, fpread them on a cloth, and fprinkle a little fait over them, and throw another cloth upon them till they are drained, then lay them on deves, and dry them in the fun till they are quite dry like fcraps of leather, put them into jars about half full, and pour hot vinegar (with fpice boiled in it to your tafte) upon them j tie them down with a bladder, and a leather quite clofe.—NtB. White cabbage is done the fame way. A a ToI THE EXPERIENCED 354 \ To pickle Red Cabbage. GET the fineft and clofeft red cabbage you can, and cut it as thin as poffible, then take fome cold ale allegar, and put to it two or three blades of mace, a few white pepper corns, and make it pretty ftrong with fait, put your cabbage into the allegar as you cut it; tie it clofe down, with a bladder, and a paper over it, and it will be fit for ufe in a day or two. s To pickle Red Cabbage^^z fecond Way. CUT the cabbage as before, and throw fome fait upon it, and let it lie two or three days, till it grows a fine purple, then drain it from the fait, and put it into a pan with beer allegar, and fpice to your liking, and give it a fcald; when it is cold, put it into your jars, and tie it clofe up, / To pickle Grapes. GET your grapes when they are pretty large, but not too ripe, then put a layer into a flone jar, then a layer of vine leaves, then grapes and vine leaves as before, till your jar is full; then take two quarts of water, half a pound of bay fait, the lame of common fait, boil it half an hour, fkim it well, and take it off to fettle, when it is *milk warm, pour the clean liquor upon the grapes, and lay a good deal of vine leaves upon the top, and cover it dole up with a cloth, and let it upon the hearth for two days, then take your grapes out of the jar, and lay them upon a cloth to drain, and cover them with a flannel till they are quite dry; then lay themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 355 them in flat bottomed ftonejars, in layers, and putfrefli vine leaves betwixt every layer, and a large handful on the top of the grapes, then boil a quart of hard water, and one pound of loaf fugar, a quarter of an hour, Ikim it well, and put to it three blades of mace, a large nutmeg diced, and two quarts of white wine vinegar, give them all a boil together, then take it off, and when it is quite cold, pour it upon your. * grapes, and cover them very well with it; put a bladder upon the top, and tie a leather over it, and keep them in a dry place for ufe.—N. B. You may pickle them in cold diftilled vinegar. pickle young Artichokes. GET your artichokes as foon as they are formed, and boil them in a drong fait and water for two or three minutes, and lay them upon a hair fleve to drain, when they are cold put thern into narrow topped jars, then take as much white wine vinegar as will cover your ar- tichokes, boil with it a blade or two of mace, a few dices of ginger, and a nutmeg cut thin, pour it on hot and tie them'down. Tlo pickle Mushrooms. GATHER the fmalleft mudirooms you can get, and put them into^fpring water, then rub them with a piece of new flannel, dipped in fait, and throw them into cold fpring water as you do them to keep their colour, then put them into a well tinned faucepan, and throw a hand- ful of fait over them, cover them clofe, and fet I A a 2 them356 THE experienced them over the fire four or five minutes, or till you fee they are thoroughly hot, and the liquor is drawn out of them, th?n lay them between two clean cloths till they are cold, then put them into glafs bottles, and fill them up with diftilled vinegar, and put a blade or two of mace, and a tea-fpoonful of eating oil in every bot- tle, cork them clofe up, and fet them in a cool place.. N. B: If you have not any diftilled vinegar, you may ufe white wine vinegar, or ale allegar will do, but it muft be boiled with a little mace, fait, and a few llices of ginger, itmuft be cold before you pour it on your mufh- rooms; if your vinegar or allegar be too fharp itwillfoften your mufhrooms, neither will they keep fo long, nor be fo white. To pickle Mushrooms brown. -TAKE a quart of'large mufhroom buttons, wafti them in allegar with a flannel, take three anchovies and chop them fmall, a few blades of mace, a little pepper and ginger, a fpoonful of fait, and three cloves of fhalots, put them into a faucepan with as much allegar as will half cover them, fet them on the fire, and let them ftew till they fhrink pretty much ; when cold put them in fmall bottles with the allegar poured upon them, cork and tie them up clofe. iV. B. This pickle will make a great addition in brown fauce. To pickle Omo-iis. PEEL the fmalleft onions you can get, and put them into fait and water for nine days, and ^ changeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 357 change the water every day, then put them into jars, and pour frefh boiling fait and water over them, let them ftand clofe covered until they are cold; then make fome more fait and water, and pour it boiling hot upon them, and when it is cold, put your onions into a hair fieve to drain, then put them into wide mouthed bot- tles, and fill them up with diftilled vinegar, and put into every bottle a flice or two of ginger, one blade of mace, and a large tea-fpoonful of eating oil; it will keep the onions white; then cork them well up.—N. B. If you like the tafic of a bay leaf, put one or two into every bottle, and as much bay fait as will lie on a fix-pence. To 77iake Indian Pickle or Piccalillo. GET a white cabbage, one caulyfloWer, a few fmall cucurnbers, radilh-pods, kidney-beans, and a little beet root, or any other thing you commonly pickle j then put them on a hair fieve, and throw a large handful of fait over them, and fet them in the fun-fhine, or before the fire, for three days to dry; when all the water is run out of them, put them into a large earthen pot in layers, and betwixt every layer, put a handful of brown muftard feed, then take as much ale allegar as you think will cover it, and to every four quarts of allegar, put an ounce of turmerick, boil them together, and pour it hot upon your pickle, and let it ftand twelve days upon the hearth, or till the pickles are all of a bright yellow colour, and mofi: of the al- legar fucked up 3 then take two quarts of ftrong A a 3 ale358 THE EXPERIENCED ale allegar, one ounce of mace, the fame of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the fame of long pepper and nutmeg ; beat them all together, and boil them ten minutes in your allegar, then pourit upon your pickles with four ounces of garlick peeled ; tie it clofe down, and keep it for ufe,—N. B. You may put in frefh pickles, as the things comes in feafon, and keep them covered with vinegai;, &c. A pickle in Imitation (^Indian Bamboe. TAKE the young fhoots of elder, about the beginning or middle of May take the middle of the flalk, the top is not worth doing, peel off the out-rind, and lay them in a ftrong brine of fait and beer one night, dry them in a cloth fingle, in the mean time make a pickle, of halfgoofeberry vinegar, and half ale allegar 5 to every quart of pickle put one ounce of long pepper, one ounc of diced ginger, a few corns of Jamaica pepper, a little mace, boil it, and pour it hot upon the fhoots, and flop the jar clofe up, and fet it by the fire twenty-four hours, Itirring it very often. CHAP. XVII. Ohfervations on keeping Garden-Stuff and Fruit. The art of keeping garden-fluff is to keep it in dry places, for damp will not only make them mould, and give again, but take I lENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 359 take'ofF the flavour, Co it will likewife fpoil any kind of bottled fruit, and fet them on working; the befl: caution I can give, is to keep them as dry as poflible, but not warm, and when you boil any dried fluff have plenty of water, and follow flridily the diredlions of your receipts. 1^0 keep Green Peas. SHELL any quantity of green peas, and jufl give them a boil in as much fpring water as will cover them, then put them in a fieve to drain, pound the pods with a little of the water that the peas were boiled in, and flrain what juice you can from them, and boil it a quarter of an hour, with a little fait, and as much of the water as you think will cover the peas in the bottles, fill your bottles with peas, and pour in your water, when cold put rendered fuet over, and tie them down clofe with a blad- derj, and leather over it, and keep your bottles in a dry placey keep Green Peas another Way. GATHER your peas in the afternoon, on a dry day; (hell them, and put them into dry clean bottles, cork them clofe, and tie them over with a bladder; keep them in a cool dry place as before. , French Beans. LET your beans be gathered quite dry, and not too old, lay a layer of fait in the bottom of an earthen jar, then a layer of beans, then lalt, A a 4 then360 THE EXPERIENCED then beans, till you have filled you jar : let the fait be at the top, tie a piece of leathdr over them, and lay a flag on the top, and fet them in a dry cellar for ufe. keep French Beans afecond Way, MAKE a flrong fait and water that will bear an egg, and when it boils put in your French beans for five or fix minutes, then lay them on a fieve, and put to your fait and water a liftle bay fait, and boil^it ten minutes, ikim it well, and pour it into an earthen jar to cool and fettle, put your French beans into narrow topped-jars, and pour your clean liquor over them 5 tie them clofe down, that no air can get in, and keep them in a dry place.—N. B. Steep them in plenty of fpring water the night before you ufe them, and boil them in hard water. *To keep Mushrooms to eat likefreJJj ones. WASH large buttons as you would for flow- ing, lay them on fieves, with the ftalk up- wards, throw over them fome fait to fetch out the water j when they are drained, put them in a pot, and fet them in a cool oven for an hour, then take them carefully out, and lay them to cool and drain; boil the liquor that comes out of them with a blade or two of mace, and boil it half away ; put your mufhrooms into a clean jar well dried, and when the liquor is cold, cover your mufhrooms in the jar with it, and pour over it rendered fuet; tie a bladder over it, fet them in a dry clofet, and they will keep very wellENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 361 well moft of^the winter.—When you ufe them* ^take them out of the liquor, pour over them boiling milk, and let them ftand an hour, then flew them in the milk a quarter of an hour, thicken them with flour, and a large quantity of butter, and be careful you do not oil it, then beat 'the yolks of two eggs with a little cream, and put it in, but do not let it boihafter the eggs are in; lay untoafted fippets round the infidc of the di/h, and ferve them up ; they well eat near as'good as frefli gathered muflirooms; if they do not tafte ftrong enough, put in a little of the liquor: this is a valuable liquor, and it will give all made dilhes a flavour like frefli muflirooms. To keep Mushrooms another Way. SCRAPE large flaps, peel them, take out the infide, and boil them in their own liquor and a little fait, then lay them in tins, and fet them in a cool oven, and repeat it till they are dry; put them in clean jars, tie themclofe down, and they will eat very good. To dry Artichoke Bottoms. PLUCK the artichokes from the ftalks (juft before they come to their full growth) it will draw out all the firings from the bottoms, and boil themfo that you can juft pull off the leaves, lay them on tins, and fet them in a cool oven,' and repeat it till they are dry, which you may know by holding them up againft the light, and if you can fee through them, they are dry enough;I » 362 ’ THE EXPERIENCED enough 5 put them in paper bags, and hang them in 4 dry place. bottle Damsons to eat as good as frepo ones, GET your damfons carefully when they are juft turned colour, and put them into wide- mouthed bottles, cork them up loofely, and let them ftand a fortnight, then look them over, and if you fee any of them^lhould or fpot, take them out and cork the reft clofe down ; fet the bottles in faiid, and they will keep till fpring, and be as good as frefti ones. Another Way to bottle Damsons, TAKE your damfons when full grown and coloured, but not foft, have them gathered in dry weather, get your wide-mouth bottles clean wafhed, and very dry before your damfons are got, have them fitted with corks that your dam- fons may be done as foon as they are gathered, wheti they are pricked put them into your bottles as foon as you can; when the bottle is half full put in two table fpoonfuls of Lifbon fugar, then fill the bottles up with damfons, have the corks well beat in and cut clofe, then have a bladder foaked in cold water, and well wiped, which muft be tied clofe over the corks, have the boiler or copper that you intend to do them in ready, and lay a little ftraw very thin, at the bottom of your copper, to keep them from breaking, put a little ftraw, between each bottle, you may lay another row of bottles 5 overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3^3, To over the firft, if your copper is deep enough, but mind they do not rub againft each other, there muft be a full inch of water over your bottles, and draw ftrewed thin over the top/ over which you muft get the cover of a hamper,, and have it cut to fit the copper, that your bottles may not rife to the top of your water, there mufi: be a proper weight over the cover of the hamper, to keep the bottles in their places ; when that is done, you mufi; have as much cold water put over them as will cover them, have your fire lighted, and ftand by them till you fee them have one boil, then, as quick as you can, have the fire drawn out, and water thrown un- der the copper to cool it, as too much boiling fpoils the fruit, let them ftand in the water three hours in the copper, then have them taken out and wiped dry, but not fiiook, let ypur bottles ftand in a cool and very dry place, they will keep two years ; they mufi; not be covered with any clofe cover : this is a very good way to do goofeberries, but leave out thp fugar. To bottle Gooseberries* PICK green walnut goofeberries, bottle them, and fill the bottles with fpring water up to the neck, cork them loofely, and fet them in a cop- per of hot water till they are hot quite through, then take them out, and when they are cold, cork them clofe, and tie a bladder over, and fet them in a dry cool place.364 the EXPER.IiENCED f ‘To bottle Gooseberries afecond Way. PUT one ounce of roach alum, beat fine, into a large pan of boiling hard water, pick your goofeberries, and put a few in the bottom of a .hair fieve, and hold them in the boiling water till they turn white; then take out the Eeve, and Ipread the goofeberries betwixt two clean cloths, put more goofeberries in your fieve, and repeat it till you have done all your berries, put the water into a glazed pot till next day, then put your goofeberries into wide-mouthed bottles, and pick out all the cracked and broken ones, pour your water clear out of the pot, and fill up your bottles with it; then put in the corks loofely, and let them ftand for a fortnight, and if they rife to the corks, draw them out, and let them fland for two or three days un- corked, then cork them clofe, and they wiH keep two years. Cranberries. I GET your cranberries when they are quite dry, put them into dry clear bottles, cork then\ up clofe, and fet them in a dry cool place. To bottle Green Currants. GATHER your currants when the fun is .hot upon them, flrip them from the flalks, and j put them into glafs bottles, and cork them.clofe, fet them over head in dry fand, and they will keep, till fpring. ToENGLISH H0US|E.KEEPER: 365 To keep Grapes. CUT your bunches of grapes, wifh a joint of the vine to them, hang them up in a dry room, that the bunches do not touch one ano- ther, and the air pafs freely betwixt them, or they will grow mouldy and rot j they will keep till the latter end of January, or longer. N. B. The Frontiniac grape is the bed:. CHAP, xviir. Obferuations on Distilling. IF your dill be a limbeck, when you fet it on fill the top with cold water, and make a lit- tle pade of flour and water, and clofe the bot- tom of your dill well with it, and take great care that your fire is not too hot to make it boil over, for that will weaken the drength of your water ; you mud change the water on the top of your dill often, and never let it be fcaldinghot, and your dill will drop gradually off j if you ufe a hot dill, when you put on the top, dip a cloth in white lead and oil, and lay it well over the edges of your dill, and a coarfe wet cloth over the top : it requires a little fire under it, but you mud take care that you keep it very clears when your cloth is dry, dip it in cold water and lay it on again, and if your dill be very hot, wet another cloth, and lay it round the very top, and keep it of a moderate heat, fo^66 THE E;:^PERIENCED ^ fo that your water is cold when it comes off the ftilL—If you ufe a worm-fHll, keep your water in the tub full to the top, and change the water often, to prevent it from growing hot; obferve to letallfimple waters Hand two or three days before you work it, to take off the £ery tafte of the IHll. Caudle Water. TAKE wormwood, hore-hound, feather- few, and lavendar-cotton, of each three hand-* fuls, rue, pepper-mint, and Seville orange peel, of each a handful, fteep them in red wine, or the bottoms of ftrong beer, all night j then diftill them in a hot ftill pretty quick, and it will be a fine caudle to take as bitters. I '^0 diJHllMu.lL Water. TAKE two handfuls of fpear or pepper- mint, the fame of balm, one handful of cardus, the fame of wormwood, and one of angelico, cut them into lengths a quarter long, and fteep them in three quarts of fkimmed milk twelve hours, then diftill it in a cold ftill, with a flow fire under it; keep a cloth always wet over the top of your ftill, to keep the liquor from boiling over, the next day bottle it, cork it well, and keep it for ufe. ff'o make Hephnatick Water for the Gravel, GATHER your thorn flowers in May, when they are in lull bloom, and pick thi,m from the ftem&ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 367 Rems and leaves, and to every half peck of flowers, take three quarts ofLilbon wine, and put into it a quarter of a pound of nutmegs fliced, and let them fteep in it all night, then put it into your ftill with the peeps, and keep a moderate even fire under it, for if you let it boil over, it will lofe its flrength. To diJUll Pepper-Mint Water. GET your pepper-mint when if is full grown, and before it feeds, cut it in fliort lengths, fill your ftill with it, and put it half full of water, then make a good fire under it, and when it is nigh boiling, and the ftill begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, draw a little out from under it, as you fee it requires, to keep it from boiling over, or your water will be muddy, the flower your ftill drops, the water will be the clearer and ftronger, but do not fpend it too far, the next day bottle it, and let it ftand three or four days, to take the fire off the ftill, then cork it well, and it will keep a long time. To ^^/// Elder-Flower Water. GET your elder-flowers when they are in full bloom, fhake the bloffoms off, and to every peck of flowers put one quart of water, and let them fteep in it all night; then put them iri a cold ftill, and take care that your water comes • cold off the ftill, and it will be very clear, and draw it no longer than your liquor is good, then, put it into bottles, and cork it in two or three days, and it will keep a year.368 THE EXPERIENCED. T(? dijlill Rose Water. GATHER your red rofes when they are dry and full blown, pick off the leaves, and to every peck put one quart of water, then put them into a cold ftill, and make a flow fire un- der it, the flower you diftill it the better it is, then bottle it, and cork it in two or three days time, and keep it for ufe. 'N. B. You may diflill bean-flower the fame way. To diflill Penny-Royal Water. GET your penny-royal when it is full grown, and before it is in bloflbm, then fill your cold Rill'with it, and put it half full of water, make a moderate fire under it, and diftill it off cold, then put it into bottles, and cork it in two or three days time, and keep it for ufe. To Lavenoar Water. TO every twelve pounds of lavendar-neps, put one quart of water, put them into a cold ftill, and make a flow fire under it, and diftill it off very flow, and put it into a pot till you have diftilled all your water, then clean your ftill well out, and put your lavendar water into it, and diftill it off as flow as before, then put it into bottles, and cork it well. To ^^///Spirits <^Wine. TAKE the bottoms of ftrong beer, and any kind of wines, put them into a hot ftill about threeENGLISH ;H0USE-KEEPER. 369 three parts full, then make a very flow fire un- der, and if you do not take great care to keep it moderate, it will boil over, for the body is fo flrong, that it will rife to the top of the fliill; the flower you diftill it the ftronger your fpirit ^ will be, put it into an earthen pot till you have' done diftilling; then clean your ilill well out, and put the fpirit into it, and diftill it flow as before, and make it as ftrong as to burn in your lamp, then bottle it, and cork it well, and keep it for ufe, . . B b( 370 ) A CorreEi LIST of every Thmg in Seafon in every Mo?tth of the TEAR, JANUARY. FISH. /^ARP ^j Tench Soles Smelts Flounders Whitings: Perch Plaice Lobfters Lampreys Turbot Crabs Eels Thornback Prawns Craw-filh Skate Oyfters Cod Sturgeon ‘ MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb P 0 V LT R Tt &c. Pheafant Woodcocks Pullets Partridge Snipes Fowls Hares Turkeys Chickens Rabbits Capons Tame Pigeons • R 0 0 T S, &CC. Cabbage Cardoons Lettuces Savoys Beets CrelTes Coleworts Parfley Muftard Sprouts Sorrel Rape Brocoli purple Chervil Radifh and white Celery Turnips Spinage Endive Tarragon MintENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 371 Mint Sage Salfifie Cucumbers in Parfnips To behadjhough hot-houfes Carrots not in feafoUy Thyme Turnips Jerufalem Arti- Savory Potatoes chokes Pot-Marjoram Scorzonera Afparagus Hyfop Skirrets Mufhrooms F R V IT, ' Apples Almonds Medlars Pears Nuts Services 1 Grapes P E B R U A R Y. FISH. Cod Skate Tench Soles Whitings Perch 'Sturgeons Smelts Carp Plaice Lobfters Eels Flounders Crabs Lampreys Turbot Ovfters Craw-ihh Thornback Prawns MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb N • P 0 U L T R r, &:c. Turkeys Chickens Woodcocks Capons Pigeons Snipes Pullets Pheafants Hares Fowls Partridges Tame Rabbits B b 2 ROOTS, ITHE EXPERIENCED 372 . ROOTS, &c. Cabbage Muftard Afparagus Savoys Rape Kidney-Beans Coleworts ■ Radiflies Carrots Sprouts Turnips T urnips Brocoli, purple Tarragons Parfnips and white Mint Potatoes Cardoons Burnet Onions Beets Tan fey Leeks Parlley Thyme Shalots Chervil Savory Garlick Endive Marjoram Rocombole Sorrel Celery Chardbects Lettuces CrelTes Pears ' ^Ifo may be had Sal li fie ' Skirret Scorzonera ForcedRadilhes Jerufalem Ar* Cucumbers tichokes. ¥ R U IT. Apples Grapes MARCH. MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb P 0 U L T R r, &c. Turkeys Fowls Pigeons Pullets Chickens Tame Rabbits Capons Ducklings FISH, Carp Eels Soles Tench Mullets Wh iting TurbotENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 373 POVLTRr, B b 3 Turbot Plaice Crabs Thornbaek Flounders Craw-fidi Skate Lobflers Prawns ROOTS, &c. Carrots Brocoli . Rape Turnips Cardoons Radifhes Parfnips Beets Turnips Jerufalem Ar- ■ Parfley Tarragon tichokes Fennel Mint Onions Celery Burnet Garlick Endive Thyme Shalots Tan fey Winter-Savory Coleworts Mulhrooms Pot-Marjoram Borecole Lettuces Hyfop Cabbages Chives 1 , Fennel Savoys CrefTes ' Cucumbers Spinage Muftard Kidney-Beans F R U IT Pears Apples Forced Strawberries Beef APRIL. MEAT Mutton Veal Lamb Carp FISH. Salmon Smelts Chub Turbot Herrings Tench Soles Crabs Trout Skate Lobflers Craw-filh Mullets Prawns374 THE EXPERIENCED ROOTS. P O U L T R r. See. Pullets Ducklings Rabbits Fowls Chickens Pigeons Leverets R 0 0 T S, See. Coleworts Young Onions Lettuces Sprouts Celery All forts of fmall Brocoli Endive Sallad Spinage Sorrel Thyme Fennel Burnet All forts of Pot- Parlley Tarragon herbs Chervil Radifhes FRUIT. Apples Forced Cher- Apricots for Pears ries and Tarts may. FISH, Carp Salmon Lobflers Tench Soles Craw-fifh Eels Turbot Crabs Trout Herrings Prawns Chub ' Smelts MEAT. Beef * Mutton Veal Lamb 1,. > POULTRY , &c. Pullets Green Geefe Rabbits Fowls Ducklings Leverets Chickens Turkey PoultsENGLISH house-keeper; 37S B b 4 ROOTS, ROOTS, See, Early Potatoes 1 Balm Savory Carrots Mint All other fweet Turnips Purflane Herbs Radifhes Fennel Peas Early Cabbages Lettuces Beans Cauliflowers Creflfes Kidney Beans Artichokes Muftard Afparagus Spinage Allforts offmall Tragopogon Parilcy Sallad Herbs Cucumbers, &c. Sorrel Thyme FRUIT. Pears And Melons Goofeberries Apples With Green And Currants Strawberries Apricots for Tarts Cherries JUNE. MEAT. Beef Veal ,Buc kVenifon Mutton Lamb ' POULTR r. See, Fowls Ducklings Wheat-Ears Pullets Turkey Poults Leverets Chickens Plovers Rabbits Green Geefe FISH, Trout Salmon Herrings Carp Soles Smelts Tench Turbot Lobfters Pike Mullets Craw-fiih Eels Mackarel Prawnsf 376 THE experienced; ROOTS, &c. Carrots Afparagus Rape Turnips Kidney-Beans Creffes Potatoes Artichokes All other fmall Parfnips Cucumbers Sallading Radifhes Eettuce Thyme Onions Spinage All forts of Pot-5 Beans Parfley Herbs Peas Purflane FRUIT. ' Cherries Apricots Nediarines Strawberries Apples Grapes Goofeberries Pears , Melons Currants Mafculine Some Peaches Pine Applc§ J U L M E J T. Y. Beef Veal Buck Venifon Mutton Lamb P 0 U L T R r. &c. Pullets Ducklings Pheafants Fowls Turkey Poults Wheat-Ear^ Chickens Ducks Plovers Pigeons Young Par- Leverets Green Geefe tridges FISH. Rabbits Cod Herrings Skate Haddocks Soles '■ . Thornback Mullets Plaice ' , Salmon Mackarel . X - . flounders Carp Tei^chi ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 377 Tench Eels Prawns Pike Lobfters Craw-fifh roots, &c. Carrots Cabbages All forts of fmall Turnips Sprouts Sallad Herbs Potatoes Artichokes Mint Radithes Celery Balm Onions Endive Thyme Garlick Finocha All other Pot- Rocombole Chervil Herbs Scorzonera Sorrel Peas Salfifie Purflane Beans Mufhrooms Lettuce Kidney Beans Cauliflowers CreiTes - t FRUIT. 1 Pears Nedtarines Strawberries Apples Plums Rafpberries Cherries Apricots Melons jPeaches Goofeberries Pine Apples A U G U S T. MEAT. Beef Veal Buck Venifon Mutton Lamb P 0 U L T R r. &c. Pullets' Ducklings Pheafants Fowls Leverets Wild Ducks Chickens Rabbits Wheat-Ears preen Geefe Pigeons Plovers Turkey Poults 5 FISH.378 THE EXPERIENCED Cod FISH. Mullets Eels Haddock Mackarel Lobflers Flounders Herrings Craw-filh Plaice Pike Prawns Skate Carp Oyflers Thornback R 0 0 T S, &c. Carrots Beans Pinocha Turnips Kidney-Beans Parfley Potatoes' Mufhrooms Lettuce Radifhes Artichokes All forts of fmall Onions Cabbages Sallads Garlick Cauliflowers Thyme Shalots Sprouts Savory Scorzonera Beets Marjoram Salfifie Celery ’ All fortsof fweet Peas Endive Herbs / F R U 1 T. Peaches Pears Strawberries Nectarines Grapes Goofeberries Plums Figs Currants Cherries Filberts Melons Apples Mulberries Pine Apples SEPTEMBER. M E H T. Beef Mutton Pork Veal Lamb Buck Venifon P OULTR r. &c. Geefe Pullets Chickens Turkies . Fo\#s Ducks TealsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER; 373 Teals Hares Pheafants Pigeons Rabbits Partridges Larks FISH. Cod Skate Tench Haddock Soles Pike Flounders Smelts Lobfters Plaice Salmon Oyfters Thornbacks Carp R 0 0 T S, &CC. Carrots Kidney-Beans Finocha Turnips Mufhrooms Lettuce, and all Potatoes Artichokes forts of fmall Shalots Cabbages Sallads Onions Sprouts Chervil Leeks Cauliflowers Sorrel Garlick Cardoons ▼ Beets Scorzonera Endive Thyme, and all Salfifie. Celery forts of foup Peas , Parfley herbs. Beans FRUIT. Peaches Filberts Currants Plums Hazel Nuts Morello Cher- Apples Medlars ries Pears Quinces Melons Grapes Walnuts Lazaroles Pine Apples OCTOBER. meat. Beef Lamb ' Pork Mutton Veal Doe Venifon P OU LTRT,THE EXPERIENCED 3S0 N O V E M p o UL r R r, &c. Geefe Rabbits Larks Turkies Wild Ducks Dotterels ^ Pigeons Teals Hares Pullets Widgeons Pheafants Fowls Woodcocks Partridge? Chickens Snipes FISH, Dorees Gudgeons Salmon Trout Holobert Pike Lobfters JBearbet Carp Cockles Smelts Tench Mufcles Brills Perch Oyfters ROOTS, &c. Cabbages Scorzonera Chardbeets Sprouts Leeks Corn Sallad Cauliflowers Shalots Lettuce Artichokes Garlick All forts of Carrots Rocombole young Sallad Parfnips Celery Thyme Turnips Endive Savory Potatoes Cardoons All forts of Pot Skirrets Chervil herbs Salflfie 1 Finocha FRUIT. 1 1 Peaches Quinces Filberts Grapes Black and white Hazel Nuts Figs Bullace Pears Medlars Walnuts Apples ServicesENGLISH HOUSE-I^EEPER. 381 NOVEMBER. meat:. Beef Veal Doe Venifon Mutton Houfe Lamb p 0 u L r R r. Geefe Wild Ducks Dotterels Turkies Teals Hares Fowl Widgeons Rabbits Chickens Woodcocks Partridges Pullets Snipes Pheafants Pigeons Larks FISH. Gurnets Salmon Trout Gudgeons-, Dorees Smelts Lobfters Holoberts Carp Oyfters Bearbet Pike Cockles Salmon Tench Mufcles R 0 0 T .S’, &c. Carrots Jerufalem Arti-CrelTes Turnips chokes Endive Parfnips Cabbages Chervil Potatoes Cauliflowers Lettuces Skirret Savoys Crejfles Saliifie Sprouts All forts of Scorzonera Coleworts fmall Sallad Onions Spinage Herbs Leeks Chardbeets^ Thyme, and Shalot Cardoons all other Pot- Rocombole Parfley Herbs F :r u it.382 THE EXPERIENCED FRUIT. Pears Cheftnuts Medlars Apples Hazel-Nuts Services Bullace Walnuts t Grapes DECEMBER. MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton'’ Houfe Lamb Doe Venifon Turbot FISH. Smelts Gudgeons Gurnets Cod Eels Sturgeon Codlings Cockles Dorees Soles Mufcles Holoberts Carp Oyfters Bearbet FOUL TRr, &c. Geefe Chickens Wild Ducks T urkies Hares Teals Pullets Rabbits Widgeons Pigeons Woodcocks Dotterels Capons Snipes Partridges Fowls Larks Pheafants R 0 0 T S, Sic. Cabbages Potatoes Garlick Savoys Skirrets Rocombole Brocoli, purple Scorzonera Celery and white Salfifie Endive ’ Carrots Leeks Beets Parfnips Onions Spinage Turnips Shalots Parfley Lettuces 5ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPEr/ 383 Lettuces Cardoons Thyme Creffes Forced Afpara- All forts of Pot- All forts of fmall gus herbs Sallad FRUIT. Apples Services Hazel-nuts Pears Cheftnuts Grapes Medlars Walnuts DireBionsfor a Grand Table. JANUARY being a month when entertain- ments are moft ufed, and moil: wanted, from that motive I have drawn my dinner at that feafon of the year, and hope it will be of fervice to my worthy friends; not that I have the lead: pretenfion to confine any Lady to fuch a particular number of difhes, but to choofe out of them what number they pleafe j being all in feafon, and mofl of them to be got without much difficulty 3 as I from long experience can tell what a troublefome talk it is to make a bill of fare to be in propriety, and not to have two things of the fame kind; and being delirous of rendering it eafy for the future, have made it my ftudy to fee out the dinner in as elegant a manner as lies in my power, and in the modern tafte j but finding I could notexprefs myfelf to beunderftood by young houfe-keepers,in placing the diffies upon the table, obliged me to have two copper-plates 3 as I am very unwilling to leave even the weakeft capacity in the dark, being my greateft fludy to render my whole work384 the EXF*ERIENCEi^ work both plain and eafy. As to French cooks' and old experienced houfe-keepers, they have no occafion for my affiftance, it is not from them I look for any applaufe. I have not engraved a copper-plate for a third courfe, or a cold colla- tion, for that generally confifts of things extra- vagant } but I have endeavoured to fet out a delfert of fweetmeats, which the induftrious houfe-keeper may lay up in fummer at a fmall cX:pence, and when added to what little fruit is then in feafon, will make a pretty appearance after the cloth is drawn, and be entertaining to the company. Before you draw your cloth, have all your fweetmeats and fruit diflied up in china difhes or fruit bafkcts; and as many dilhes as you have in one courfe, fo many balkets or plates your delfert mufthave; and as my bill of fare is twenty-five in each courfe, fo mufl: your defi'ert be of the fame number, and fet out in the fame manner, and as ice is very often plen- tiful at that time, it will be eafy to make five different ices for the middle, either to be ferved upon a frame or without, with four plates of dried fruit round themj apricots, green gages, grapes, and pears—the four outward corners, pillacho nuts, prunelloes, oranges, and olives—■ the four fquares, nonpareils, pears, walnuts, and filberts—the two in the centre, betwixt the top and bottom, chefnuts and Portugal plums— for fix long dilhes, pineapples, French plums, and the four brandy fruits, which are peaches, nectarines, apricots, and cherries. INDEX. ftI N D E ESS* Page } A. Acid for Punch Ale to mull Almonds to burn Alirtond Iceing for Bride Cakes Amulet to make of Afparagus Angelica to candy Apple-Sapce Apple floating Ifland Apple Tarts Apricots to dry Apricot Marmalade Pafte ' to preferve Afparagus to'boil Artichokes to boil Artichoke Bottoms, to 1 drefs with eggs. J Bottoms, to boil } white y Bottoms to dry Artichokes to pickle B. Bacon, a Gammon toroaft 112 to fait j ooy Bances French Bafbadoes Jumballs 274. Beans hrench to drefs yg 334 3^1 242 265 291 291 246 59 258 145 244 22c 23« 231 78 77 290 289 361 355 Page 359 300 78 I lb 87 Beans French to keep a fecond way W^indfor to drefs Beef a la-mode Bri&et Tla-royal to collar flat Ribs toforcelnfideSurloin 1x3 Infide of Surlointo ? dr efs I ^3 Bouille Fricando To ha/h Heart larded Heart Mock Hare Olives to make . Porcupine flatRibbs 116 Porcupinetoeatcold 299 13 1^5 72 118 118 117 304 105 '105 70 7r 7< Round to force Rump to Rew a fecond way Steaks to broil Steaks a good wav > to fry ^ f Steaks to drefs a") comfti.on way J TohangaSufloin 7 to roaft (■ 305 Tea ' 312 to pickle ^08 Bilcuits common to make 276 ^ 276 ■Lemon to make 276 Spanifti to make 27? C c Bifcuits rBifciiits Sponge to make 275 Blancmange a fecond way a third way Brandy Cherry Orange Rafpberry Brawn Mock Bread French to make wFite Brocoli to boil INDEX. 4 Page 195 196 J96 336 337 33'6 202 278 279 77 Cakes Violet Calf’s-Head roafied Calf’s-Head Hath to drefs to collar to grill Mock-Turtle Page 240 281 85 86 88 88 82 A fecond way 87 Surprife Calf’s Feet to fricaflee Candy Angelica and Eggs 289 Ginger Browning for made Diflies 81 Lemon, Orang( Bullace Cheefe 236 Peel Butter to clarify 37 Caps black to make Fairy 258 green to make Carp to ftew brown C to ftew white Cabbage to boil 76 Cakes Apricot to make 242 Bath 271 Bride 264 without Butter 273 Cream 272 Currant clear 239 Currant 272 Lemon 268 Lemon a fecond way 269 Orange 268 Good Plum 266 Idttle Plum 268 White Plum 267 Pruffiau 267^ Queen 271 Ratafia 269 Ratafia a 2d way 269 Rice 269 Common Seed 272 Rich Seed 267 Shrewfbury 270 Shrewibury2d way 270 to drefs Sauces 83 281 246 243 206 206 29 26 26 27 Catchup to keep fevenyeaiS33Q Mum Mulhroom Walnut 339 339 338 Walnut a 2d way 338 Cauliflowers to boil 76 Celery to fry 286 to ragoo 286 to ftew 285 Chardoons to fry 286 to ftew 286 Cheefe-Cakes, Almond 258 Bread ' Citron Common Cheefe-Cake Curd Rice Bullace to make ^gg Ch«efe Ramaquin Sloe 259 259 260 260 259 236 261 292 236 CheefeI I N D EX. Page Page Cheefe to ftew 285 to ftew with light I 28 c Wigs I ^ Cherry Brandy 336 to dry 240 to dry a fecond way 241 Chicken-broth to make 312 Chickens to boil 64 to force 126 to fricaflee 125 to roaft 65 in favoury jelly 282 Water to make 313 Chickens artificial 126 and Pullets to ftew 114 Chocolate to make 316 Chops to fait 306 Cockles to ftew 38 Cod’s Head and Should- 1 ers to drefs J a fecond way 22 Cod fait to drefs 22 Codlings 'to drefs likeT Salt-fifti J Codfounds to drefs 23 like little Turkies 23 Collar Beef 303 Flat Ribs of Beef 303 Calf’s Head 300 Eels 46 Mackarel 43 a Breaft of Mutton 301 a Pig 301 Swine’s Face 302 Breaft of Veal to 1 eat hot / ^ Breaft of Veal tol eat cold J 3°*^ Collops Scotch brown g6 French way gy Cowflip Mead 332 Cracknells 274^ Cranberries to bottle 364 22 Crawfilh in favory Jelly 284 in Jelly 284 Cream Cheefe 255 burnt 253 Chocolate 248 Clotted 250 Hartftiorn 250 Ice 249 King William’s 254 Lemon 251 Lemon with Peel 252 Orange 252 Piftachio 248 Pompadore 253 Rafpberry 251 Ribband 250 Snow and 254 Spanifli 249 SteeplewithWine 1 Sours J ^ . Tea 253 Crumpets Orange to make 260 a fecond way 260 Tea 279 Cucumbers to ftew 291 with Eggs to drefs 142 Currant clear Cake 239 Drops 245 Green to bottle 364 to dry in Bunches 244 Black Rob 237 Cuftard Almond 256 Beeft 257 Common 257 Lemon 256 Orange 256 D Damfons to bottle 362 to dry 243 Defert Ifland to make 199 of fpun Sugar igo C c 2 Direc-INDEX. Page DirCiSlions for fetting out | „ a grand Table y 3 3 Diftill Bean Flower Water 367 7'o diftill Caudle Water 366 LHftill ElderFlowerWater 367 Hephnatick Water 366 I.avender Water 368 Milk Water 366 Peppermint Water 367 Pennyroyal Water 368 Rofe Water 368 Spirits of Wine 368 Ducks a-la braife 128 a-la niode 129 to boil withOnion 7 fauce 5 wild hafti 75 wild to roaft 6b tame to roaft 59 to ftew 127 to ftew with green ? „ Peas i ^ Drops Peppermint 245 Lemon 245 Rafpberry 245 Currant 245 Dumplings Apple to make 174 BarmofYeft 184 Damfon 183 Rafpberry 183 Sparrow 184 Eels E. to boil ' to broil to collar to pitchcock to roaft 37 ^6 37 30 Epo-s todrefs w/th Arti- ? choke Bottoms S and Brocoli ^89 Chcefe to malce 261 J 38 Eggs to fricaflec 290 Sauce to make 64 AndSpinagetodrefs 289 to poach withToafts 289 Elder Rob 236 F. Fifh Pond to make 194 to caveach 50 to preferve 50 to ftew a good way 32 Flounders to boil, and all Kinds of Flat Fifti to ftew 21 Flumrpery to make 19^ Colouring for 194 Cribbagc Cards 205 Green 197 Eggs and Bacon in 203 Melon in 197 Oa.tmeal 264 Solomon’s Tern- ? pie in • 1 Yellow 196 Forcemeat for Breaft of ) Veal Porcupine 1 for Hare Florentine 136 Fowls a-la-braife 123 to boil 63 to drefs cold 75 to force 124 to hafti 74 large to roaft 64 Fritters Apple to make 161 common ditto 161 clary ditto 161 ^Plumb with Rice ditto Rafpberry ditto 162 Tanfey ditto 162 Water 163 Fruit in Jelly ^97 Giblets 89 } 163N D I ; E X. ... Page G. Giblets to flew 57 Ginger to candy 243. Good Green to make 197 Gofers to make 165 Goofe to boil • 57 to marinate 126 * Stubble to roaft 51 Green to roaft 58 Goofeberries to bottle 363 to bottle a fecond 7 .•?64 way j Goofeberry pafte 239 Grapes to keep 365 Gravy to draw I to make 5 Green Gages to dry 241 Gruel Barley to make 315 Groat 3H Sago - 3'5 W ater 316 H. Haddocks to broil 35 a fecond way 35 Ham to boil 69 to roaft 112 * to fait / 306 to fmoke 307 Hare Florendine 136 to hafh 76 to jug *35 to roaft 69 to flew *35 Hodge Podge *37 Harrico by way of Soup 140 of Mutton or Lamb 140 Neck of Mutton *41 Herrings to bake 34 Herrings to boil Page 33 to fry 33 I* Jam Apricots to make 212 Black Currant 214 Green Goofeberry 218 Red Rafpberry 212 Strawberry 213 Iceing for Tarts *44 a fec .ind way - *44 Almond for Bride Cake } 265 SugarforBride Cake 265 Jelly Calf’s Foot to make igt Savory for cold meat 192 Colouring for it4 Craw-fifli'in Savory 284 Birds in Savory 283 Chickens in Savory 282 Black Currant to ? make S ^ Red Currant 211 White Currant 214 Fifh Pond in 194 Gilded Fifh in , 198 Fruit in 197 Hartfhorn to make 210 a fecond way 192 HenandChickens in 198 Hen’s Neft 195 Floating Ifland in 200 Ditto a fecond way 201 Rockey Ifland in 20i Moon and Stars in 20:^ Pigeons in Savory 283 Smelts in Savory 284 7'ranfparent Pud - 7 ding S '99 Moonfhine 202 Orange 210 C c 3 LambI N D E> X. Page L Lamb Bits to drefs 282 Head and Purte-1 nance todrefs J log Leg boiled, and | T nQ Loin fryed \ a Quarter of, forced 109 Stones fricafleed no Lampreys to pot 48 a fecond way 48 to roalt 30 to ftew 31 Larks to roaft 67 Lemonade to make 333 a fecond way 333 Lemon Drops 245 Pickle 80 Peel to candy 246 .Loaf Drunken to make 262 Oyfters *"■ 40 Princes ' 262 Royal 262 Lobfters to boil 40 to roaft 40 to ftew 41 LobfterVattics to sarnifli 7 1-ilh to pot 49 Sauce 28 Pie 156 M Macaroni, with Parme-1 fan Cheefe to drefs j Maccaroons JVIackarel to boil Malt Liquors to refine 28s 275 32 330 MarmaladeApricot tomake 225 Orange Quince 222 Page 224 33* 331 33* lOI 15* 302 82 Marmalade Tranfparent Mead Cowflip to make Sack Walnut Midcalf to drefs Mince Pie without Meat Mock Brawn to make Turtle Turtle a fecond way 83 Moonfhine to make 202 Moor Game to pot 52,298 Mufcles to ftew 38 Mufhroom Loaves 287 to keep to eat 7 , like frefh \ 3°^ Dkto a fecondway36l Powder to make 340 to ragoo to ftew another w’ay to pickle brown ' to fricaflee Mulled Ale Wine Ditto a fecond way 312 Mutton a Bafque to make 107 a Breaft to collar a Breaft to grill Broth to make to hafh to harrico Hodge Podge Kebob’d to make Leo; to force Leg to drefs, 7 called Oxford [• John 3 Leg to fait ^Leg fplit, and Onion Sauce Mutton Leg to drefs, to eat like Veiiifon 288 287 287 356 143 311 311 301 313 73 140 141 105 100 108 308 105 } jio? Mutton % /I N D EX. Page Mutton neckto harrico 102,141 Neck to make 1 French Steaks > 103 of J Neck toeat like > Venifon j Shoulder boiled, 1 Celery Sauce j ^4-*^ Shoulder boiled, 1 called Hen and r 104 Pag? 3>7 102 Chickens Shoulder boiled, \ Onion Sauce j * 4- Shoulder furprifed 104 Steaks to broil 71 iiling 1 leef, ^ and J 52 O ■Obfervations on boil and roafting Beef. Alutton, Veal, and Lamb on Cakes 264 on Creams,Cuf-"1 „ tards,&c. / on Decorations J for a Table 1 on Diftilling 365 on drelling Filh 14 on drying and can- "I dying J on made diflies 79 on Pies and Pafte 143 onPolTetSjGruels &C.308 on potting and 1 collaring i 3^3 on roafting wild i and tame Fowls J on roafting Pig, 7 Hare, &c. J on pickling 342 on prefervjng 209 ©n Puddings 167 Obfervations on Wines, Catchup, &c. on Soups I on keepingGar-T den Stuft' and f 358 Fruit J Orange Brandy to make 337 Chips to candy 243 Jelly to make 210 Juice 334 Marmalade 223 Peel to candy 246 Ox Pallates to fricando 119 to fricaflee Ho to ftew 119 Oyfter fauce to make 60 Soup 13 Oyfters to fry 39 to pickle 42 to fcollop 39 to ftew & all Kinds? q of Shell Fifli Ozyat to make 332 a fecond way 333 185 221 55 Panada favoury fweet Pancakes batter Clary Cream Fine Pink coloured Tan fey W afer Parfnips to boil Partridge to hafh in Panes to ftew to ftew a fecond C c 4 way to roaft } 292 316 j66 166 j6s j66 167 166 165 79 75 133 134 ^5 PafteINDEX: Page PafteforDefcrtBafkets 7 „„ for Covers j a ChinefeTemple 7 „ or Obelifk J *°9 t Apricot to make 228 Cold for Difli Pies 146 Red&whiteCorrants 2^9 for Cuftards 14b for Goofe Pie 145 Goofeberry 239 Crifp for Tarts 144 Light for Tarts 144 Rafpberry 238 Pafty a Venifon 145 Patties common to make 160 to fry 159 Lobuer to garnifli I Fifli ) 41 Fine 160 Fried 159 Savory 158 Sweet 160 Peaches to dry 246 Pears to flew 206 Peas Green to boil yS to keep 359 to keep a fecond way 359 to ftew 142 to ftew with Lettuce 289 Peppermint Drops 345 Perch to fry 36 in Water Soaky 37 fPheafant to roaft 65 Pickle Indian to make 357 In Imitation of 7 q Bamboe j 35» Artichokes 355 Barberries 350 Red Beet Root 362 Red Cabbage 354 Red Cabbage, a 7 fecond way i '^^4 Page Pickle White Calibage 353 Cauliflowers 353 Cauliflowers, a l fecond way J 2^3 Cockles 46 Codlings 325 Cucumbers 342 Cucumber, a fe- 7 cond way j 343 Cucumbers in Slices 344 ElderBuds 352 Elder Shoots 352 Grapes 354 Kidney Bearis 346 Mangoes 344 Mackarel 44 Muftirooms 33^ Nafturtians 331 Onions 336 Oyfters 42 Parfley 331 Pork 308 Radilh Buds 331 Salmon, Newcaf- i tie way j 42 Samphire 346 Shrimps ' 31 Smelts or Sparlings 45 Walnuts Black 347 Ditto, a fecond way 347 Ditto green 349 Ditto Olive Colour 348 Ditto white 349 Pigs Chops to fait 302 Pig to barbecue m to drefs in Imita- 7 tion of Lamb J Feet and Ears to 7 ^ ragoo j ® Feet and Ears to 1* foufe J 3°5 Pettytoes to drefs_ 56 'SINDEX: Pig to roafl: Pigeons artificial to boil Page 55 156 67 to boil with Bacon 133 to boil in Rice 131 to broil 131 to compote 129 to fricando 132 to fricalTee 133 in a Hole 130 jugged 132 to roaft 67 in fayoury Jelly 283 to tranfmogrify 130 Pike to boil, with a r’ud- ding in the Belly 25 Pikelets to make 278 Pippins to ftew whole 237 Plaice to ftew 31 Pork to barbecue 111 *Lhine to ftulF 112 to pickle 308 to fait 308 Steaks to broil 72 PjolTets Ale to make 311 Almond to make 310 Brandy 309 Lemon 309 Orange 310 Sack ' 309 Wine 310 Potatoes to fcollop 287 Pot Beef to 293 ’ Beef to eat J Venifon like / all kinds of I fmall Birds j Chars 4.7 Lels 47 Ham withChickens297 Hare 297 Lampreys 48 J^obfters 48 Pot Moor Game Ox Cheek Pigeons Page 52, 298 294 298 Salmon 44 Ditto, a fecond way 45 Shrimps 50 ' Smelts or Sparlings 45 Tongues 296 Woodcocks 297 Veal 29s Marble Veal 296 Venifon 295 Preferve Apricots 231 Apricots green 218 Barberries in 7 o Bunches S BarberriesforTarts 229 Bullace Cheefe 236 j Cherries in Brandy 336 Morello Cherries 228 Codlings to keep 7 all the year j Cucumbers 215 Currants red in 1 Bunches J Currants white , in Bunches 5 Black CurrantKob 237 Currants for I'arts 215 Damfons 229 Elder Rob 236 Grapes in Brandy 216 Green Gage Plums 220 G reenG oofeberries 218 Red Goofeberries 226 Goofeberries in ; Imitation of hops Lemons carved 233 Ditto in Jelly 234 Magnum Bonum? Plums 5230 Oranges 232 Ditto carved 232 PreferveINDEX. V Page Prefervc Ditto in Jelly 232 Ditto with Mar- 7 malade J Peaches 231 Golden Pippins 217 Kentifh Pippins 217 PlumsGreenGage 220 Plums Bonum 7 Magnum 3 ^3® Pine Apples 225 Quinces whole 230 Ditto in Quarters 232 Red Rafpberries 228 "White ditto 227 Sloe Checfe '236 Sprigs Green 220 Strawberries whole 227 Wine Sours 230 Walnuts Black 225 Ditto Green 222 Ditto white 225 j^uddings Almond 168 Apple i6g Apricot 174 Bread J73 Bread, a fecond 7 Way 5 Calf’s Feet 172 Little Citron 177 Green Codling J78 Boiled Cuftard 169 Goofe berry 182 Hanover 184 Herb 182 Hunting 168 ' ' Lemon 170 Lemon, a 2d way 170 Lemon a third way 170 Marrow 179 Marrow, a fecond I j way 3 ^ Puddings Marrow, a third way Boiled Milk Nice Orange Orange, a fecond J Page I 180 182 173 171 Way Plain Quaking Quaking, a fe- cond Way Rice Common Ditto boiled Ditto ground j-iyi } 174 180 181 Red Sago 171 172 179 *75 Sago, another way 177 Sippet ^ ,7^ Tanfey with Al-7 , monds 1 '76 Tanfey baked Tanfey boiled Tanfey with ground Rice Tranfparent Ditto, a fecod way Vermicelli White in Skins Yam Yorkfhire under' Meat ' } •177 176 177 175 J99 *75 189 182 181 Puffs Almond 278 Chocolate 277 Curd 261 German 164 Lemon 277 Pies Beef-fteak 150 Bride 155 Calf’s-head 151 Codling 153 Chicken a favoury 1^1 Pies/ INDEX. Page Pies Eel • 155 Egg and Bacon 7 „ to eat cold J ^ French 146 Hare 149 Herb for Lent 153 Hottentot 154 Lobfter 156 Mince 152 Olive 157 Rook 157 Salmon 149 Thatched Houfe 150 Veal favory 158 Veal fweet 157 Venifon 154 Yorkthire Goofe 148 Yorkfliire Giblet 156 Quince Marmalade 224 preferved whole 232 R. Rabbits to boil Florendine Fricaflee brown Fricafiee White to roaft furprifed Rafpberry Brandy Cream Red Jam White Jam Pafte Drops Ray, or Scate to boil Ruffs and Rees to roaft s. 68 137 139 139 68 138 33^ 251 212 2l 3 238 245 34 60 22 Sago to make with Milk 315 Salmon to boil Crimp 23 6 Page Salmon to pot 44 to pot a fecond J way J rolled - 24 Sauce Apple for Goofe 59 Bread for roaft 7 , Turkey \ For Cod’s Head i and Shoulders 3 For Cod’s Head a fecond way Celery 103 Egg for Salt Cod 24 Eggforroafted fowls 68 Lobfter 28 for Green Goofe 59 for Stubble Goofe 59 for moft Sorts of 7 „ Fi(h } Onion 59 Onion for boiled \ Goofe J 57 Oyfter for boiled ) . Turkey J for roafted Pig 56 for roafted Pig a 7 ^ fecond way 3 ^ for Salmon 24' Shrimp 21 for boiled Turkey, 7 a fecond way White for Kifh 27 White for Fowls 63 White for boiled 7 breaft of Veal 3 Saufages to fry 290 Scate or Ray to boil 34 Scotch Collops brmvn 96 Collops French way 97 Collops white t,6 Collops to warm 73 Sheeps rumps and Kidneys 106 SherbetI N D E X, ? Page Sherbet to make ^ 335 to make a fecond 7 ^ way i33S Shrimps to ftew 41 Shrub Almond , 337 Currant 337 • - another way 336 Smelts or Sparlingr to fry 36 Snipes to roaft 66 Snow balls to make 236 a Difh of 305 Soles .to caveach 50 to fry 35 to marinate 35 Solomongundy to make 280 a fecond way 281 Soup Almond to make 6 a-l^-Reine ' 7 Common Peas 10 Oyfter 13 Craw-fifh 13 Gravy with yel- 1 low Peas j * ^ Green Peas 9 Green Peas 7 without Meat^ * White Peas 11 Hare 3 Onion 8 Brown Onion 9 White Onion 8 Ox Cheek 5 Partridge 14 Peas for Lent 10 Portable for Tra-l vellers J ^ Kich Vermicelli 4 Tranfparent 3 White 12 and 13 Spinage to ftew 77 Sprats to bake 34 Page Stew Cheefewith light? ^ wigs i Carp 29 Ducks 127 Ducks and Green 7 j Peas S Hare Oyfters & all forts 7 of Shell Fifti S 3° Partridge 134 Ditto a fecond way 134 Pears 206 Peas 142 Peas with Lettuces 288 Rump of Beef iie Tench 29 ' Turkey brown 121 Ditto with Ce- 7 lery Sauce ^ Strawberry Jam to make 213 to preferve whole 227 Stum to make 32^ Stuffing for a marinate? Goofe j ^^7 Sturgeon to drefs 30 to pickle ‘ 41 Sugar to boil Candy Height 247 Sugar to fpin Gold Colour i8g Silver Colour 188 Spun Sugar a DelTert of 190 Sweetbreads a-la daub 98 to fricafTee brown 99 to fricaflee ,white 99 forced 98 to ragoo 99 Syllabubs Lemon to make 207 Lemon a fecond 7 „ way i “8 Solid 207 under the Cow 208 Whip 207^ Tealeindex!. I Page Teale to roaft Tench to ftevv brown to ftew Toaft fried to make Tongue to boil to fait Trifle to make Tripe foufed Trout to fry Turbot to boil 66 29 307 263 Veal Neck of Cutlets Olives Page 9a 94 Ditto a fecond way 35 Venifon Pafty to hath Haunch roafted 194 72 Sauce a-la'daub, hot cold to hafh to roaft foufed ftewed and Ce-i lery Sauce ■ ftewed brown Turtle to drefs lOo lb. Weight to drefs a fecond way ig 307 Vinegar Elder Flower 340 25 s Goofeberry 3'4i 305 Sugar 34* 3^ T arragon 34® 25 Violet Cakes 240 5 60 W 122 Wafers to make 277 122 Wafer Pancakes 265 74 Water Imperial 3* 62 Barley 314 304 120 187 188 I2I ps artificial to make 84 Forcemeat for ditto 85 82 83 Mock to drefs a fecond way V V^eal a breaft to boil 9I a Breaft to collar 90 Ditto to porcupine 89 Ditto to ragoo 90 a Fillet bombarded 93 to ragoo a Fillett 100 to ftew a Fillet 100 to fricando 94 to hafh 73 to difguife a Leg loi to mince 73 to a-la royal a Neck ef 92 Web Silver to fpin Gold to fpin Whet before Dinner 139 Whey Cream of Tartar 314 Scurvy Grafs 314 Wine 313 Whitings to broil 35 a fecond way 35 Wigs light to make 274 Wine Balm 327 Blackberry 322 Birch 324 Birch a fecond way 325 Clary 327 Cowflip 325 Ditto a fecond way 326 Red currant 323 Ditto a fecond way 322 Elder-Flower 326 Elder Raifin 319 Ginger 320 Pearl Goofeberry 321 Goofeberry, a fe- ) cond way j 32i WineI E X. N D Page le Lemon to drink ^ Wine Smyrna Raifin like Citron Water J \ 3*7 Raifin, another a fecond way 3*8 Rafpberry Orange 318 Sycamore a fecond way 3*8 Walnut a third way 319 Woodcock to hafti Acid Raifin to cure 327 Ditto to roaft. F INIS. Page 319 7320 222 324 325 75 66 1^he following ufeful and entertaining BOOKS are publifiedby R. Baldwin, No. 47, Pater- Nofter-Row. The History of John Juniper, Efq. alias Juniper Jack. In three Vols. i2mo. Price 9s. fewed. Publifli- cd by the Editor of the Adventures of a Guinea. Containing the Birth, Parentage, and Education, Lite, Adventures, and Charader, of thatnioft Wonderful and Surprifing Gentleman. 2. The Adventures of Gil Blas of Santillane. A new Tranfiation, by the Author of Roderick Random. Neatly printed in Four Vols. i2mo.and adorned with thirty-three beau- tiful Copper-plates. Price 12s. bound, the Fifth Edition corre£led. 3. The Adventures of Telemachus, the fon of Ulyfles, Written by the Archbilhop of Cambray. To which are added the Adventures of Ariftonous. Done into Englifh by Mr. Litterbury and Mr. Bowyer. The Nineteenth Edition, adorn- ed with a neat Set of Cuts illuftrative of the Work, and a Head of the Author. In 2 Vols. Price 6s. 4. The Adventures of Roderick Random. By T. Smoi- let, M. D. 2 Vols. i2mo. Price 6s. 5. The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle; in which are included Memoirs of a Lady of Qhality. 4 Vols. i2mo. Price 12s. By the fame. 6. The Rambler. By Dr. S. Johnfon. 4 Vols. i2mo. 8th Edition. Price 12s. 8. 1 he Adventurer. By John Hawkfworth, LL. D. Jofeph Warton, A. M. and others. In 4 Vols. i2mo. Price bound 12s. A new Edition. .7. The Life and ftrange furprifing Adventures of Robin- son Crusoe, of York, Mariner, who lived eight and twenty Years all alone, in an uninhabited Ifland on the Coaft of America, near the mouth of the great River Oroonoque, havino- beeacaft on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the Men perilhed but himfelf; with an Account how he was at laft as ftrangely delivered by Pirates. Written by himfelf. The fourteenth Edition. 2 Vols. i2mo. Price 6s. adorned with Cuts. g. The Ladies Library : Containing the Sentiments of Chaftity, Modefty, Meeknefs, Charity, Envy, Detraftion, Pride, Drefs, Recreation, Religion, Zeal, &c. with general Rules for a Lady’s Condudi in every circumftance of Life, ' whetheri BOOKS printed R. Baldwin, whether as a Daughter, Wife, Mother, Widow, or Miflrefs, of a Family, 3 Vols. i2mo. feventh Edition, Price gs. bound. < 10. The Paths of Virtue delineated ; or, The Hiftory in miniature of the celebrated Pamela, Clarissa Harlowe and Sir Charles Orandison, in the Compafs of a Pocket j Volume, neatly printed on fine Paper. 1 “ Great Bleflings ever wait on virtuous Deeds, “ And, though a late, a fure Reward fucceeds.” Being a very proper Prefent for Young Ladies and Gentlemen, n he fecond Edition. Price 2s. 6d. neatly bound. 11. Pamela ; or Virtue rewarded. In a Series of Familiar Letters, from a beautiful young Damfel to her Parents. 4 Vols. j 5th Edition. Price 12s. j 12. Clarissa; or. The Hiftory of a young Lady ; com- | prehending the moft important Concerns of Private Life, in S Vols. i2mo. Price il. 4s. 13. The Hiftory of Sir Charles Grandison; in a Series of Letters, in y Vols. i2mo. Price il. js, 14. Meditations and Contemplations. Containing, , Vol I. Meditations among the Tombs—Refledlions on a Flower Garden—And, a Defcant on Creation. Vol. II. Contemplations on the Night—Conternplations on the ftarry Heavens.—And, A winter Piece. By James Hervey, A. M. j Late Rector of Wefton Flavell, in Northamptonfliire. In twa 1 Vols. fmall Odtavo, neatly printed from a Copy corredted by the I Author a fhort I ime before his Dtceafe, and adorned with i two Frontil'picces engraved by Grignion. The 18th Edition. Price 6s. The fame in one V’^ol. i2mo. Price 3s. 15. Reliclous Courtship, beuig hiftorical Difeourfes on the Necefllty of marrying religious Hufoands and Wives only. As alfo. Of Hufbands and Wives being of the fame Opinions in | Religion with one another ; with an Appendix on the Necelftty ' of taking none but religious Servants, and a Propofal f«r the . ' better managing Servants, ilthEdit. i2mo. Price 3s. 16. A Familiar Explalanation of the Law of Wills and Codicils, and of the Law of Executors and Adminiftra- , tors. Alfo the Rules by which Eftates in general defeend, with the Diftribution of perfonal Property, when no Will is ' made. To which is added. Plain Inftrudlions for every Per- fon to make his own Will, wfth the neceflary Forms for that | Purpofe ; and the Expence of obtaining Probates, and Letters of Adminiftration. By T. E. Tomlins of the Inner Temple, V Barr^fter at Law. 2d Edit, correded, Price 2s. 6d. j > f4i t - ^ . P ii. . \ ■X"^- 0. ♦ 0 iv S ^ • fc > 4. Jf^ *. « * ^ ^ ^ l V“' ♦ / , ■ .jl (i! 0 ’A> * ?' t '^*1 m •7 ■ • ^ i '