GENERAL ANATOMY. 762 that in the pleura it communicates to the ear the same ste- thoscopic and percussive phenomena which arise from the pi-e- sence of fluid. After its first coagulation this substance undergoes other changes which are highly important in a pathological rela- tion. As the diaphanous membranes are at all times mutu- ally applied, a very common effect of this effused substance and its coagulation is to connect the corresponding points more or less firmly. The process by which this is accom- plished was understood by Hunter and Baillie, and may be stated in the following terms. As the lymph is effused and separated into clot or coagulable part and fluid, the former is observed to be soon penetrated by minute red vessels, which may be demonstrated by injection, and the existence of which is also proved by the fact above-mentioned, that the surface of a piece of detached lymph is marked by nu- merous blood-spots, occasioned by the rupture of the elon- gated capillaries of the inflamed membrane. These vessels may be traced from the latter into the extravasated sub- stance, in which they are obsei'ved to ramify. Red spots, like effused blood, also appear through the substance of the lymph, and in the course of a few hours these are discovered to be new vessels. As this process, which constitutes the oi'ganization of the lymph, advances, the penetrating vessels become more numerous, and the lymph becomes more firmly attached to the inflamed sui'face of the membrane. At the same time the fluid part of the exudation is absorbed, and the albuminous portion becoming firmer and something opaque, the soft, pulpy, gelatinous, translucent, straw-coloured sub- stance is gradually converted into a firm, white, opaque body, uniting more or less exactly the corresponding sur- faces of the membrane. The new vessels of its interior sub - stance at the same time contract, and ultimately convey only colourless fluid. The substance thus rendered organic and the seat of an incessant process of exhalation and absorption, is termed membrane of adhesion (co)icrelio, coHcrementum,) or false membrane. The process by wliich it is formed is termed union by adhesion, or simply adhesion.