676 GENERAL ANATOMY. is detached ; Rumsey recognized manifest traces of inflam- mation ; in Cheyne's cases the vessels of the membrane were large, distinct, and sometimes numerous, (9th.) The same was seen by Albers, Jurine, and Bretonneau. In short, whether the membranous exudation be present or absent, the tracheo-bronchial membrane is always more or less red, bloodshot, villous, and swollen ; and puriform fluid oozes from the bronchial tubes. This inflammation is seated in the tracheo-bronchial mem- brane solely. It begins immediately below the cricoid car- tilage, and extends along the tubes into the bronchi and bronchial membrane. It is rarely observed to affect the la- ryngeal membrane ; and when it does so, this is to be viewed as a complication not essential to genuine croup. The effect of this inflammation is to produce from the sur- face of the membrane a fluid or semifluid secretion, which soon undergoes coagulation after exposure to the air. In the upper part of the trachea this substance is firm and in the form of a tubular membrane moulded on the canal; be- low and in the bronchial divisions it is less firm ; in the tubes it is completely fluid. * (Home, Cheyne, Bretonneau.) The nature of this morbid exudation has been a matter of ambi- guity. Home, who remarked that the tubular membrane when complete is tough and thick, might be soaked in water for days without dissolving, that it does not adhere to the windpipe, as there is always fluid matter beneath it, and that beyond it, the windpipe, bronchial tubes, and pulmonic ve- sicles, are covered by pus or purulent mucus, thought it of the nature of thickened mucus. In one case Rumsey calls it viscid mucus or phlegm ; in others he likens it to the buffy coat. Field regards it as coagulable lymph ; Cheyne, with some confusion, compares it to the exudation of the inflamed pleura or peritonaeum, and accounts it thickened puriform fluid ; while by Pinel and most of the recent authorities, it • " We can even demonstrate," says Cheyne, " the adventitious mem- brane degenerating into the puriform fluid, and again gaining consistence in different parts of the same membrane."