714 GENERAL ANATOMY. cream, easily washed from the finger, and diffusible in water, which it renders turbid, sometimes tenacious, like melted glue, to issue from the vagina. 3. When the mucous membrane of the womb or vagina is inflamed, it may secrete puriforra or purulent fluid, which is not unfrequently retained within the cavity of the organ. Collections of purulent matter in the former have been re- corded by Lieutaud, • Portal, + Dr Clarke, J and others. Of these collections the peculiarity is that they are not dis- charged as they are formed,—a circumstance which is in ge- neral to be ascribed to obstruction of the uterine orifice by lymph. This, it is to be remarked, is accidental, and does not establish an essential or specific difference between such purulent collections and those discharges which take place from the orifice of the organ. It is nevertheless to be re- marked, that these collections partake in a raoi-e conspicuous degree of the characters of genuine active inflammation of the uterine mucous surface. Puriform inflammation of the utero-vaginal mucous mem- brane is to be distinguished from abscess of the labia, or ni/mpkce, from suppuration of the submucous vaginal tissue, which I have seen take place under circumstances that might lead them to be confounded with each other, from gonor- rhceal inflammation, from corroding ulcer of the mouth of the womb, and from cancer of the womb or of the rectum. The second general form of uterine mucous inflammation is that in which the product of the process is an albuminous membranous concretion. Morgagni records a good instance of redness of the uterine mucous membrane, part of which was at the same time lined by a preternatural membranous substance. It has been further long known, that many fe- males discharge periodically shreds and portions of membra- nous matter of various size and shape, and some so large that they form almost complete moulds of the inner uterine surface. These facts, which were observed by William Hunter, Leake, Denman, and Hulme, are well known to accoucheurs • Hist. Anatom. Med. t Anatomic Mcdicale, Tom. v. p. 510. i Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 560.