SKIN. 609 matous inflammation I have observed the cuticular surface of the corion of a scarlet red, and soft velvety texture, and distinctly traversed by numerous minute ai'borescent and as- teroid patches, which, however, become much paler in a few days. b. Cutaneous injlammations situate chiejly in the outer sur- face of the corion, producing sero-albuminons fluid, which ele- vates the scarf skin into pushes, blebs, or blisters, (Bullae, Phlyctffinse,) commencing in certain parts of the corion, but spreading continuously. The outer surface of the coiion may be inflamed in such a manner as not to terminate in desquamation or resolution, but to pour forth a watery yellowish fluid, which detaches the cuticle and elevates it in the form of a bleb or blister. This is very well seen in the instance of scalding by boiling fluids, on the application of the blistering fly {Mcloe vesicalorius,) or even in some cases of friction to parts naturally tender. In each of these cases, in a short time large watery elevations or bladders appear. The same process takes place sponta- neously in rose, in common blebs, and in the bullose or bleb fever. The form of these blebs is not determinate ; nor even are they always uniform in appearance. The action by which they are produced, though more violent in degree, is not different in kind from ordinary cutaneous inflammation. It is attended, nevertheless, with more swelling of the corion, more exquisite burning heat, and more searing or scalding pain, than the other forms of superficial cutaneous inflamma- tion. The fluid secreted by this process is sero-albuminous. When the raised cuticle is divided a yellowish transparent watery fluid escapes; and when the cuticle is detached so as to expose the inflamed spot, the inflamed skin is found co- vered by a quantity of soft, cellular, gelatinous matter, of a yellow-white colour, somewhat tough, and similar to coa- gulable lymph. This substance is traversed by firm linear partitions, not uniform in number or direction, but forming interstices from which serous fluid, the same as that which escaped first, is discharged. The coagulable matter, which Q q