GENERAL ANATOMY. 694 and has entirely destroyed, with the mucous membrane of both bowels, the ileo-coecal valve. The destroyed part here presents a surface consisting in very minute round granules ; and in the beginning of the colon are one or two large irre- gular granulations. The same inflammatory induration of the submucous and subserous filamentous tissue has here operated in diminishing the capacity of the bowel; and, in- deed, previous to being cut open, it seemed almost impervi- ous. The inflammatory process here had produced perito- neal inflammation, and false membrane connecting the ileum, caput ccecum, and part of the colon together. The vermi- form process is unaffected. Opposite to each were enlarged mesenteric glands, and especially at the last mentioned one was a cluster of large knotty masses. Though I describe the ultimate effects of this destructive pro- cess, I have no doubt, from what I have seen of other cases in earlier stages, tliat it is the I'esult of chronic inflammation of the intestinal mucous membrane. I had an opportunity of observing the progress of the disease for more than two years, during which the case was more or less under my care; and during that period it was possible to recognize occasional attacks of inflammation. The other symptoms were occa- sional pain of the belly, never severe, unless at the period of the above attacks, and diarrhoea alternating with constipation, afterwards incessant and uncontrollable diarrhoea, wasting, and hectic fever;—in short, all the symptoms imputed to me- senteric decline; (tabes mesenterica.) This process, there- fore, or chronic inflammation of the intestinal raucous mem- brane, with or without ulceration, I regard as one of the pathological causes of mesenteric tabes. The enlargement of the glands, in which this disorder has been very generally be- lieved since the time of Wharton, Baglivi, and Richard Rus- sell to consist, is merely secondary, and is a consecutive effect of the irritation exercised at the organic extremities of the lymphatics and lacteals. This view of the relation be- tween enlarged mesenteric glands and intestinal inflamma- tion, though already stated by Broussais, has not, however.