732 GENERAL ANATOMY. 11. Deposition of bony matter in certain of the mucous surfaces is mentioned by various authorities. Thus Metzger records an instance of ossification of the oesophagus ;* Walter One of bony deposition in the inner surface of the pharynx ;t De Haen mentions an osseous degeneration of the stomach ;J Short ยง and others mention similar deposits in the colon and rectum ; and Hody, || Lettsom, ^ Baillie, Odier, and Mackie ** mention examples of the same occurrence in the uterus. The history of the mode of developement of this deposition is not exactly known ; and it is not quite certain whether the ossification originates invariably in the mucous corion. This indeed appears to have taken place in the in- stance mentioned by Walter^ and in such cases of uterine ossification as that recorded by Dr Caldwell, tt In instances of osseous deposition in the alimentary canal, it is justly sus- pected by Dr Monro then to originate in the muscular fibres, 12. Further, in certain regions of the mucous tissue are found morbid growths which are proper to these regions, and to be found in no other part of the mucous membranes. Thus the milt-like tumour described by Dr Monro has been found chiefly in the stomach and bowels ; and the fleshy tubercle of William Hunter and Dr Clark, and the cauliflower excres- cence of the latter, are found only in the womb. The former variety of tumour, for an accurate description of which we are indebted to Dr Monro ieriins, resembles in structure and consistence the milt of fishes, is of a pale red colour, with an irregular surface, and is covered by a thin but vascular membrane, adheres slightly to the organ from which it grows by a number of small vascular processes penetrating the mucous corion, which is unnaturally thick, and presents, a honey-comb appearance. The portion of in- testine to which such tumour is attached presents marks of vascular injection. The substance of the tumour, though * Adversaria Medica, p. 170 and 177. || Pl"l- Trans. No. 440. I Catologi Mus. No. 1536. Mem. Med. Society, Vol. v. X Rat. Med. Tom. iv. cap. i. ** Med. and Phys. Journal. ยง Ed. Med. Essays, Vol. iv. 353. j-j- Med. and Surg. Journ. Vol. ii. 22.