SEROUS MEMBRANE. 771 was detached in the shreds and fragments in which it was found on inspection, inflammation and suppuration of the subserous filamentous tissue had taken place. * In short, from the cases recorded, and from several which I have exa- mined personally, I infer that ulcei'ation of the serous tissue is always preceded by inflammation and suppuration of the subserous; that the attachment of the former being thus de- stroyed, its vitality is impaired, and its cohesion thereby weakened ; and that it gives way rather in the manner of laceration than genuine ulceration. Observation has not yet determined whether gangrene be an effect of inflammation of the serous tissue. That it is oc- casionallj' involved in this process I infer from seeing the pleura in gangrene of the lungs, and the peritoncBum in that of the bowels, soft, black, or greenish, shreddy, and lacerable. But it is still uncertain whether primary inflammation of a serous tissue exclusively may terminate in mortification of that membi'ane. With this process ulceration with bloody effusion or blood-coloured patches must not be confounded. Bichat states, that in numerous bodies which he inspected, he met with gangrene of the peritoncBum only; and that he never witnessed an instance of this change either in the arachnoid membrane, in the pleura, in the pericardium, or in the perididymis. t The second general head of secretions, or those termed serous, have been long received as the distinctive character of the disorders named dropsies; {Hydropes.) To the influence of inflammation or capillary injection in causing effusion, extravasation, or secretion of serum, I have already in part alluded. In no texture is this more conspi- cuous than in the serous or transparent. The mechanism of this process it is perhaps not very easy to explain satisfac- torily, unless by referring it to the same principles to which I have already referred, the ordinary albuminous and puru- lent exudations. I shall attempt, however, to state as briefly * Treatise on the Blood, &c. Part ii. Cliap. vi. Sect. vi. p. 461. 4to. \ Anat. Generale, torae iii, p. 51?.