MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 683 nearly uniformly over the whole surface of the stomach; when continuous it occupies the large extremity of the or- gan, is rarely confined to the great cul de sac, and in some instances appears at once at the cardiac and pyloric orifices. The vessels of the submucous tissue, which is generally sound, are large, distinct, and empty. * From the few in- stances in which I have seen this change myself, I should say that it consists in removal of the villi by some process analogous to inflammatory absorption. It is certain that in the affected patches these processes are greatly less dis- tinct, and often totally gone. I may add that this is one at least of the forms of the change which John Hunter de- scribes as digesliou of the stomach t; and also one of these" described by Dr Yellowly, % the greater part of which, it is to be observed, occurred in persons cut off by pulmonary consumption. To this head probably are to be referred such cases as that recorded by Mr Douglas, who found the villous coat obliterated except near the pylorus, and the muscular absorbed. § The theory of its production is further ex- ceedingly obscure ; and 1 abstain from conjecture. In similar subjects, but more especially in the phthisical, the gastric membrane is liable to become occupied by mi- nute roundish eminences, not unlike granulations separated by superficial furrows, with occasional points of ulceration round or oblong form, from one to several lines in diameter. The colour of the membrane is at the same time reddish, or reddish gray, always thickened, and generally softened, and covered with much viscid mucous. This granular state of the mucous membrane is most frequent in the large curva- ture, and the parts adjoining to the anterior and posterior surfaces, at the pyloric extremity, the small curvature, and the great cul de sac, the whole extent of which, however, is rarely affected. || The granular eminences appear to be * Memoires ou Recherches Anatomico-Pathologiques. Paris, 1826. ■}■ Observations on certain parts of the Animal Economy, p. 226, 231. I Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. iv. p. 271, 5 out of 20. § Mem. Med. Soc. Vol. iv. p. 395. II Louis in Medico-Cliir. Trans. Vol. iv.