766 GENERAL ANATOMY. ciated with the albuminous, and contains flakes of lymph, yet, as little lymph is found on the surface of the membranes, and as the quantity of the latter is often in the inverse ratio of the quantity of puriform fluid, it may be regarded as less nearly allied to the pure albuminous inflammation than the sero-purulent. Both are to be regarded as abortive efforts to effect albuminous exudation. The puriform secretion occurs in all the serous membranes, but is most frequent in the peritonaeum. It is in particular very common in that form of peritonagal inflammation which occurs in the persons of women in childbed ; and Hunter, who was aware of the fact, states it as an instance of the combination of the adhesive with the suppurative inflamma- tion,—a circumstance to which he ascribes the unfavourable issue of such cases. * It is occasionally the combination, and sometimes the substitution of the suppurative for the adhe- sive process. This is amply confirmed by the necroscopic appearances of peritonaeal inflammation in puerperal females, in which every shade of morbid effusion is seen, from albu- minous lymph, with separation of proper serous fluid, to pu- riform or purulent collection. Genuine purulent fluid, as it is represented by pathologi- cal authors,—a white, or cream-coloured, opaque, and ho- mogeneous fluid,—is another product of inflammation of se- rous membranes. Though always combined \yith more or less albuminous exudation, which is found in loose irregular patches on the membrane, and in the form of shreds and flakes in the fluid, it is more uniform in composition than the puriform, being destitute of the granular matter, and not separating when allowed to rest into thin and solid mat- ter. It occurs in chronic pleurisy, {empyema,') in pericardial inflammation as an affect of the acute, and in peritonitis, acute, subacute, and chronic, especially the puerperal. * " This mixing of the suppurative with the adhesive, or the hurrying on of tlie suppurative, I have frequently seen in the abdomen of women wlio have been attacked with the peritonaeal inflammation after child-birth, and which, from these circumstances, became the cause of their death."—On the blood, &c.