MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 685 which gradually coalesce, and when this is completed, a reddish brown ragged surface is formed. Ulceration very often proceeds by successive destruction of the submucous, muscular, and peritonaeal coats to perfora- tion, which consists in the occurrence of a ragged opening, through which the contents of the organ escape, and give rise to secondary peritonaea! inflammation, which is invari- ably fatal. This accident, examples of which are recorded by Morgagni, Lieutaud, Carmichael Smyth, * Gerard, f Crampton, X Travers, || Louis, and Dr Abercrombie, may take place at any part of the stomach, but appears to be most frequent in the space between the great and small arches, but nearer to the former. In some rare instances, in which adhesion is formed between an adjoining organ and the edges of the aperture, the contents of the stomach are prevented from escaping, and life may be continued till the progress of ulceration destroys a part where this tem- porary barrier cannot have place. The most important point to be known is, that these ulcers may cicatrize. Independent of the uncertain cases recorded by Atkinson and Reil, we have an authentic and unequivo- cal example in the person of the late M. Beclard. This able anatomist laboured at one period of his life under obstinate symptoms of gastric disease, the nature of which, though uncertain, seemed to partake of chronic inflammation. The symptoms did not give way without frequent local blood- letting, counter-irritation, and the most rigid regimen. After death, there was found in the small curvature, about 4 lines from the cardia, a cicatrized ulcer, the size of a 20 sols piece, with a depressed surface, the middle of which was tra- versed by a solid cellular band, on each side of which were two lacuncE formed by peritonaeum. The margins were nei- ther red nor swollen; and the rest of the stomach was sound. § • Med. Commun. Vol. ii. p. 467. ■f Des Perforations Spontanees de I'Estomac. Paris, 1803. t Trans, of the Association, Vol. i. || Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. vii. $ De la Membrane Muqueuse Gastro-Intestinale, &c. p. 558. Par C. Billard.