SKIN. 615 en-pox it is sometimes attended by ulceration of the corial surface, sometimes not. In the other two forms of vesicular inflammation, though the process commences at the surface of the corion, it finally affects the substance of that membrane. In the limpet-shell vesicle Crupia), inflammation of the punctuate or circumscribed character commences in one or more points of the outer surface of the corion, and causes the secretion of a thin clear fluid, which first elevates the cuticle into a broad flat vesicle, and soon becoming opaque, oozes through the broken cuticle, and is hardened into thin, super- ficial, but in general laminated scabs. These vesicles are surrounded by a red, hard, and painful margin or base, in- dicating slow inflammation of the corial tissue. The progress of this form of cutaneous inflammation de- monstrates clearly and satisfactorily the gradual transition of the morbid action from the surface to the substance of the corion. The inflammation, confined at first to a small spot by the usual zone or areola, causes merely sero-albuminous secretion, and consequent elevation of the cuticle. If at this time the cuticle be removed accidentally or intentionally, the subjacent surface of the corion is intensely red, soft, or vel- vety and pulpy, elevated, and extremely tender, while the surrounding ring or hoop of skin is hard, and equally elevat- ed and red. From the softened inner portion the secretion of sero-albuminous fluid, generally of a reddish tint, conti- nues ; and the surface itself begins to become rough, and to lose its velvet aspect. This indicates incipient ulceration, which proceeds to affect the substance of the corion, until it is either much or wholly destroyed, generally in the form of an inverted cone; while the place of the destroyed skin is supplied by the sero-albuminous secretion, which hardens as it is formed, and seems thus to sink deeper and deeper into the skin. In the meanwhile, the surrounding portion of the skin is much indurated and inflamed, and seems to form a hard ring in the skin; and the whole process is at- tended with extreme pain, searing heat, and constitutional