626 GENERAL ANATOMY. that is the most certain pathological character " of the small pox/' says this writer, " is the formation of a slough, or a part becoming dead by the variolous inflaramation, a circum- stance which hitherto, I believe, has not been taken notice of. This was very evident in the arms of those who were inoculated in the old way, where the wounds were consider- able, and were dressed every day; which mode of treatment kept them from scabbing, by which means this process was easily observed; but in the present method of inoculation it is hardly observable. The sore being allowed to scab, the slough and scab unite and drop off together. The same in- distinctness attends the eruptions on the skin; and in those patients who die of, or die while in the disease, where we have an opportunity of examining them while the part is dis- tinct, this slough is very evident. This slough is the cause of the pit after all is cicatrized; for it is a real loss of sub- stance of the surface of the cutis, and in proportion to this slough is the remaining depression." " The chicken-pox comes the nearest in external appear- ance to the small-pox, but it does not commonly produce a slough. As there is generally no loss of substance in this case, there can be no pit. But it sometimes happens, al- though but rarely, that there is a pit in consequence of a chicken pock, then ulceration has taken place on the surface of the cutis, a common thing in sores."* The circumstance of a slough at the bottom of each pock or inflamed point has been particularly insisted on by Joseph Adams, a most zealous admirer of the pathology of Hunter, and an active commentator on his principles. " We have be- fore seen," says Adams, " that the peculiar property of some morbid poisons is to produce death in a part, whether the inflammation be violent or not. Of this kind is the small- pox, every individual pustule of which is found with a slough at the bottom, which may be removed with ease, after time has been allowed for its separation by suppuration. The • Philosoph. Transactions, Vol. Ixx. p. 133, Mr Hunter's account of a woman who had small-pox during pregnancy.