GENERAL ANATOMY. 646 never acquires the organization of the outer surface of the corion. It is nevertheless capable of furnishing cuticle by which this new corion is covered. These facts may be veri- fied in the cicatrization of burns and other injuries in which the corion has been destroyed. * The nails, like the cuticle, may be diseased in consequence of a morbid state of the corial surface and vessels by which they are nourished. In one or two instances of strumous children, I have seen them fissured into several longitudinal portions, much thickened, and indurated like horn, and in- curvated. In others of the fingers of the same individuals, they were small and imperfectly developed; and in some their place was supplied by a small portion of thick horny cuticle. Similar changes are sometimes induced by disease or by injury. Of the hairs, the most extraordinary morbid state is the Polish plait (plica Polonica ;) so named from being endemial in Poland, Lithuania, Hungary, and Transylvania, from the source of the Vistula to the Carpathian mountains. It oc- curs also in Prussia, Russia, Switzerland, and in some parts of the Low Countries. It is impossible to doubt that this anormal condition of the hairs depends on disease taking place in their bulbs or nutritious sacs. This is proved by the state of the skin from which the diseased hair grows, and by the unctuous, viscid, and blood-coloured fluid which the hairs in this state contain. We nevertheless possess no very precise information on the nature of this diseased state of the capillary bulbs; and in the absence of exact facts I abstain from offering conjectures. The piiiparous sacs lose their energy under certain mor- bid states of the system ; for instance, fever, pulmonary con- sumption, and the constitutional symptoms of lues. The " Ottonis Huhn Commetitatio tie Regeneratione, &c. 1787. P. 23, &c. Andreee J. G. Murray, Commentatio de Redintegratione, I787. P- 5d. A Dissertation on the Process of Nature in the filling up of cavities, &c. By Jatnes Moore, Member, &c. London, 1789. Sect. ii. p. 64, &c. 3