792 GENERAL ANATOMY. luctantly to begin with hemorrhage of the tomentose or vas- cular surface of the pia mater. In this variety of meningeal hemorrhage^ which has been greatly overlooked, the vessels of the attached surface of the pia mater become inordinately injected and effuse blood, which is deposited in the convolut- ed surface generally, and occasionally in the ventricles. Omitting some obscure accounts of this affection in the older collections., the first good example is given by Morgagni from Valsalva, who found in the body of a man of 58 much coa- gulated blood between the pia mater and the convoluted sur- face of the right hemisphere. (Epist. ii. 19.) Two similar cases Morgagni inspected himself. (Epist. iii. 2 and 4.) The best instances of this hemorrhage, however, is given by Mr How- ship in his 11th case. It occurred in a young woman of 22, who for two years had laboured under rheumatic ailments, and at length, after paralytic and vertiginous symptoms, died le- thargic. Upon inspection the pia maler was found vascular and red ; its vessels increased in number and size ; and blood was diffusely extravasated all under the pia mater.—" The extravasated fluid had formed superficial coagula, correspond- ing to the sulci between the convolutions."—" It had taken place very universally, and the effusion seemed to have arisen not only from the capillary arteries upon the external surface of the pia mater, but also from those processes of the mem- brane which dip between the convolutions forming the to- mentum cerebri. Several of these deep-seated coagula were divided by the knife in the course of the dissection." * Slighter examples of partial extravasation on the convo- luted surface I have seen myself, and mentioned some years ago, t when I did not well understand the source of the he- morrhage, Dr Abercrombie records two instances commu- nicated by Dr Hunter and Dr Barlow, in which the extra- vasation, he states, was from the superficial vessels of the * Practical Observations on Surgery and Morbid Anatomy, &c. Lond. 1816. Section ii. Case xiv. see also cases xviii. and xx. t On the Pathological Anatomy of tlie Brain and its Membranes, Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. xviii. p. 407-