SKIN. 633 of the cellular membrane spreads indeed along with that of the skin; but it also kills this tissue almost immediately, or at least speedily gives it the usual appearance of mortified matter. At the same time, the inflammation of the corion extending quickly, kills at least its exterior surface; and Hunter is inaccurate in saying that the skin does not die, but gives way by ulceration. Death of the corion is an early ef- fect of carbuncular inflammation; and though it does not preclude the formation of ulcerated openings, it may take place without them. According to ray own observation, death takes place most generally in patches of the corion, which may afterwards burst as it were by distension; ulcera- tion takes place at points which have not been killed, and in general at the union of the dead and living skin. There is no ground for believing that the subcutaneous cellular membrane is killed by the confinement of matter in its cells, as Hunter imagines. The ordinary mode in which this appears to take place is by the spreading inflammation of the corion, extending along its lower surface, and produ- cing death, as it appears to do in diffuse inflammation, in which it spreads and does not readily cause suppuration. Upon the whole, it may be concluded that the corion is the primary seat of disease in carbuncle, and that the af- fection of the cellular membrane, with which it is uniformly accompanied, is the effect of spreading inflammation of the corial tissue. The whelk {acne ; ionthos ; varus, vari, Celsus ;) consists of minute portions of corion, round, oval, or spheroidal, hard, circumscribed, and elevated. Of the four sorts enu- merated by Bateman, three only, the simple {A. simplex), the inveterate (A. indurata), and the crimson (A. rosacea), can be considered as examples of inflammation of the substance of the corion. The black whelk (Acne punctata J, doubtless arises from disease and obstruction of the mucous follicles, or sebaceous glands. Both the simple and indurated whelk may produce ulcerative destruction of the true skin, and leave a smooth depressed scar ; and I have seen them by ex-