GENERAL ANATOMY. 668 jected, traversed by minute red points and vessels, some- times arborescent or asteroid, sometimes punctular or in mi- nute points, occasionally in linear streaks, and not unfre- quently in red patches ; the surface becomes swelled and vil- lous or pulpy ; and the proper secretions of the part ai-e altered into sero-albuminous fluid, puriform mucus, or actual purulent matter. In situations in which there is epidermis, as in the mouth and gullet, this is elevated into minute ve- sicles and blisters forming aphthcB; or the membrane is cast off in the form of exfoliated patches. In the gastro- enteric membrane the villi are removed, and the surface is rendered plane like that of the rectum or bladder. The inflammation may terminate in the formation of ulcers; or in induration and permanent tliickening of the mucous tissue by effusion of lymph beneath it, and into its substance. Xiie follicles are at the same time liable to become enlarged and vascular, and occasionally proceed to ulceration ; but this is more frequent in the chronic form of the process. The mi- nute peculiarities will be more conveniently noticed under the respective heads. a. Cephalic mucous membrane, u. Ophthalmia serosa el pi- riformis—The ophthalmic mucous membrane {conjunctiva) may become the seat of inflammation, with secretion of sero- albuminous fluid, puriform fluid, or purulent matter. In the former case, in which the natural fluid appears simply to be much augmented, the inflammation is confined chiefly to the ocular conjunctiva, which is reddened and elevated, forming in severe cases round the cornea a prominent ring or excrescence, which appears to start from the eyelids—a state denominated by the ancient surgeons chasm or gaping (ckemosisJ, because a small opening corresponding to the cornea is left in the centre of the swelled membrane. This severe form of the disease occasionally terminates in suppu- ration, ulceration, or sloughing. Of the second form, two varieties are mentioned, the puru- lent ophthalmy of infants, and the purulent ophthalmy which affects epidemically large bodies of men in close intercourse with each other. In both cases, the mucous surface of the