718 GENERAL ANATOMY. have died during hemorrhage, and have examined the bron- chial, gastric, intestinal, and uterine surfaces, yet have not perceived the slightest trace of erosion, notwithstanding the precaution of washing them with care, allowing them to macerate, and afterwards submitting them to examination by means of a lens." * In this manner, therefore, are to be explained those slight hemorrhages which take place in pul- monary catarrh (hcemoptoe), about the termination of perip- neumony, and in young females after the accidental sup- pression of the menstrual discharge. From these the more copious and irresistible hemorrhages from mucous surfaces differ chiefly in a previous serious lesion of the mucous or submucous tissue. This lesion consists in vascular injection more or less extensive of the mucous corion, and injection occasionally very complete, and amounting to extravasation, of the submucous tissue, which is thus ren- dered red-brown, hard, and void of its natural elasticity. Of the former instances are seen in the gastro-enteric mucous membrane during hcematemesis, melcena, and bloody flux; and the latter may be observed in the lungs during hcsmoptysis, and in the rectum in hcsmorrhois. These principles are so well established by numerous facts, that it is unnecessary to strengthen them by any elaborate induction. I shall merely adduce the phenomena of a few of the hemorrhagic diseases in illustration of the general doctrine that hemorrhage is an exhalation from parts, the capillaries of which are previously inordinately distended. The Gastro-enteric Membrane. HcBmatemesis and Melcena. —-On the pathology of this disorder, so much misunderstood by the ancients, it is unnecessary to dwell. Correct views were first given by Hoffmann, who, from the fact of finding in dead bodies the mesenteric vessels and those of the ileum much distended with black blood, and the stomach filled with the same, taught that the bloody discharge, whether from the upper or the lower end of the canal, proceeds not immediately from the vessels of the stomach, or from blood extravasated into its cavity, but also from the vessels of the * Anatomie Gcnerale, tome i. p. 563, 565.