SKIN. 605 action. The distinction, though judicious, was overlooked ; and those who confided in his practical instructionSj without attending to the correctness of his pathology or the fidelity of his descriptions, transferred the seat of phlegmon from the skin, in which it was placed by Cullen, to the cellular tissue, where it has since remained. This error was abetted by J. Hunter and C. Smyth, whose distinctions of inflam- mation, according to the tissues in which it occiu-s, place rose in the skin, and pJdegmon in the cellular membrane. These views were generally adopted till the appearance of Bichat, who attempted, after the example of Cullen, to dis- tinguish cutaneous diseases according to their seat in the cutaneous tissue.* As this is obviously the most rational method, and though not much followed by practical authors, has received the approbation of such observers as Meckel and Beclard, it is best calculated for the order to be observed in the present treatise. Cutaneous inflammation, though it eventually affect the substance, which, however, is not frequently, may be con- veniently distinguished in the following manner. First, it may be seated in the exterior or cuticular surface of the corion; secondly, it may affect the papiUoe or minute eleva- tions of the corion ; thirdly, it may affect the substance of the corion ; fourthly, it may occur at the inner or attached surface of this membrane. If these circumstances be adopt- ed as the basis of general division, subordinate characters may be derived from the mode in which the inflamimatory process advances, and from the effects which it produces, in the following order :— Diffuse or spreading inflammation I. Cutaneous inflamm^itions seated in the outer or cuticular surface of the corion, Ccutis vera, derma,) and gene- rally spreading along it. Measles, Rubeola. Rash fever, scarlet fever, Scarlatina. Nettle-rash, Urticaria. Rose-rash, Roseola. Common rash. Erythema. Effusive injlammation.—II. Cutaneous inflammation seated in the outer surface of the corion, producing a fluid which elevates and detaches the cuticle, " Anatomie Generale, Tome iv. p. 721,