670 GENERAL ANATOMY. In some instances, with abatement of pain, diminution of swelling, and alleviation of other symptoms, the vessels ap- pear much distended and distinct, though tortuous, the mem- brane is thickened in patches or continuously, and sero-al- buminous fluid is deposited in spots or along the course of the vessels. These appearances mark the transition of the disease into the chronic form. Their persistence too often leaves the superficial speck f7iebiilaJ, the triangular web (pterygium), or the opaque spot (leucoma.) /3. Watery Eye ; Epiphora.—The mucous membrane of the eye and eyelids communicates with that of the nostrils by the narrow tube termed lacrymal duct. A minute capillary opening at the nasal extremity of each eyelid, termed lacry- mal (punclnm lacrymale), forms the upper or palpebral end of this canal; and its inferior or nasal extremity is a consi- derable opening in the lower nasal passage, between the low- er spongy bone. This canal is lined by a fibro-mucous mem- brane, the free surface of which is moistened by a thin semi- transparent, glairy fluid, not like the mucus of the nasal or tracheal membrane, but merely viscid enough to facilitate the descent of the tears, and to maintain a free communication between the eyelids and nostrils. This membrane may be inflamed in any part of its course, especially at the palpebral extremity ; and the swelling attendant on this process in a canal so narrow produces a temporary obstruction to the transmission of the tears,—constituting the simple and acute form of the watery eye or epiphora. In ordinary circum- stances this terminates in resolution, and the canal again be- comes pervious in a few days. In more severe cases, how- ever, either in consequence of thickening of the fibro-mucous membrane, or the effusion of albuminous fluid, the obstruc- tion is more permanent ; and if not seasonably removed, may induce secondary inflammation of the parietes of the canal, and ulceration and false openings; ([fistula:.) In all cases the inflammatory process may affect the subjacent perioste- um of the lacrymal, nasal, and superior maxillary bones, and induce caries in one or more of them. With or without this 3