769 SEROUS MEMBRANE. flammation of the pericardium it takes place beneath the cai'diac fold of the membrane, and occasionally assumes the form of minute abscesses in the subserous tissue and on the surface of the cardiac fibres. In inflammation of the perito- naeum it is more common ; and careful inspection may detect effusion below the intestinal, and more distinctly in some in- stances below the muscular peritoneum. In this situation, indeed, may be found patches and minute deposits of puru- lent fluid, not only in the ordinary forms of peritonaeal in- flammation, but in that which takes place in the persons of puerperal women. A third change mentioned as a consequence of inflamma- tion in serous membranes is inordinate thickness and some degree of pulpiness. * The occurrence of thickening is con- tradicted by Laennec, who denies that inflammation pro- duces thickening of the pleura, and contends that observers have been misled by morbid deposits on its surface, or the formation of new membranes. Without doubting the dis- cernment or candour of this pathologist, I must remark, that, as Baillie expressly mentions thickening as a consequence of inflammation in the pleura, peritoncBum, and mesentery, and as this is confirmed in regard to the peritonceum by the testi- mony of Pemberton + and Black, X the question resolves it- self into one of individual observation. If, in some instances of acute inflammation of serous surfaces, thickening is not recognized, there are few in which the chronic form of the process affects the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum, without more or less thickening of the membrane. The ap- pearance of this, indeed, may arise from eff"usion into the subserous filamentous tissue ; but in cases of chronic inflam- mation the membrane itself appears to be not only thicker, but harder and firmer than natural. Does this change de- pend on eff'usion of lymph into its component tissue, or de- velopement of vessels which are loaded with various fluids In chronic peritonitis I have observed the attached surface * Baillie's Morbid Anatomy, p. 54, 127, ind 200, in reference to the mesentery. -J- On the Abdominal Viscera, i Clinical and Pathological Reports, &c. fi C