636 GENERAL ANATOMY. or very soon becomes so by tlie formation of small hard round bodies (pustulo-tubei'cular) which after some time be- gin to be acuminated, and cast the cuticle in thin peelings. Occasionally they give rise to thin watery vesicles of no de- terminate shape, which either burst the cuticle and discharge their fluid, or appear to cause an insensible dewy oozing all over the surface. The most usual seat of this form of cuta- neous inflammation is the side of the nose, one of the alae, or a small portion of the cheek. After subsisting in this form for some time, it may disappear spontaneously, the skin becoming of its natural colour, soft and without pain. More frequently, however, the cuticle continues to be cast off in peelings, vesicles and pustules continue to be formed, and one or other more red and painful than the rest is at length covered by a scab, which dropping off discloses a small sore with a smooth ungranulating surface, and a scanty, thin, bloody-coloured, puriform discharge, which generally forms a fresh crust or scab. This either spreads without showing any disposition to heal, or coalesces more or less completely with other sores which are generated in the same mode, and undergo the same process. After proceeding in this manner for weeks or months, a tendency to heal is manifested in some parts, while others continue to spread. The parts which heal are irregularly seamed and scarred. This form of disease ap- pears to correspond with what Wiseman describes under the name of Herpes Exedens. Another form of local pustulo-tubercular disease I have seen take place on the skin of the face, generally on the fore- head, in the form of round hardish bodies, with flat summits, to the number of eight, ten, or twelve, disposed in a circular arrangement. The surface of the skin was red, glossy, and occasionally casting cuticular scales and shreds. These bodies were stated to be the seat of an uneasy sensation of heat rather than of pain. They had not advanced to ulce- ration. Upon removal by the knife, they became pale, white, and shrunk considerably. Internally they consisted of gray coloured substance, interspersed with a few blood-vessels.