787 SEROUS MEMBRANE. spections of insane persons^ found in 54 more or less thicken- ing of the membranes, serous infiltration of the subarachnoid tissue, with or without injection of the capillaries, and serous fluid to greater or less amount in the ventricles. * Much the same results may be derived from the necro- scopic reports of Haslam and Marshall. Of 37 cases of in- sane persons examined by the former, whatever was the state of the brain, the membranes were unsound in all except one (the 33d) ; and in this " considerable determination of blood to the brain shows that the capillaries of the pia mater were inordinately loaded. In 23 of these cases the pia maler was injected and loaded with blood, more or less reddened or disordered in its capillary system. In 24 cases, the arach- noid membrane was opaque ; in some instances of milky opacity; in several thickened; and in one-half at least with infiltration into the subarachnoid tissue. Of these 24, IS be- long to the first class in presenting traces of injection of the pia mater. In 21 cases, serous fluid varyhig in amount from two tea-spoonsful to four, six, or eight ounces was found in the ventricles ; and of these also 10 corresponded with the first class in presenting traces of meningeal inflammation more or less intense. The presence of this fluid in the cere- bral cavities, I have already shown, indicates previous vas- cular congestion of the choroid plexus; and though this mem- brane was not in all instances much or evidently affected, yet, since in several it was vascular, thickened, vesicular, or indurated, the appearance of fluid in the cavities is as une- quivocal a mark of previous inflammation as if it had been reddened, injected, or penetrated by extravasated blood. The opacity, both macular and diffuse, Dr Haslam regards as marks of inflammation ; and the subarachnoid infiltration is of the same nature. In several cases, (5, 7, 8, 14, 15, 18,) the injection had proceeded to extravasated patches. In one case, in which the patient died hemiplegic, the right lateral ventricle was distended with dark-coloured blood which had issued from the choroid plexus; and in one in which the * Delia Pazzia in genere e in specie, con una centuria d'Osservazioni- 3 Vol. 8vo. Firenze, 1794.