GENERAL ANATOMY. 672 represent the membrane of the tympanal cavity as perios- teum; but in his anxiety to maintain its mucous he over- looks its fibrous character. Its adherent surface cannot be distinguished from the periosteum of the bones to which it adheres. When removed and dried it is thin, crisp, aijd semitransparent. During the inflammatory process it be- comes red, thick, soft, and actually villous; and it secretes first serous, afterwards yellow puriform fluid, which cannot be distinguished from genuine purulent matter, though with- out ulceration. * In this disease an opening takes place in the membrane, which becomes fungous, or is eventually destroy- ed ; the tympanal bones are discharged; and not unfre- quently the inflammatory process spreading into the mastoid cells, fills these cavities with matter more or less viscid. In such circumstances it may affect the periosteal surface and cause caries of the bones, which are then found denuded and rough. Not xmfrequently it causes inflammation of the dura mater and cerebral membranes. s. Thrush ; Aphthae.—The mucous membrane of the mouth and throat is liable to this form of inflammation, which depends on the presence of epidermis in this region. It is then elevated into whitish or ash-coloured vesicles or blisters, sometimes round or oval, sometimes irregular. The con- tained fluid is separated into two parts, one albuminous, form- ing the rudiment of new epidermis, the other serous, which escapes while the old epidermis is cast in the form of scab or slough. The mucous membrane of the throat and soft palate is affected by diffuse redness, swelling, and other marks of in- flammation during the sore throat of scarlet fever. That of quinsy is more frequently seated in the submucous cellular tissue. b. Inflammation of the tracheo-bronchial membrane may be distinguished as the process is developed, 1 st, in the larynx; * " Le cadavre d'un homme expose a ces ecoulemens pendant sa vie, m'a presente une epaisseur et une rougeur remarquables de la membrane du tym- pan, mais sans nulle trace d'erosion." Anat. Generale, tome iii. p. 430. 4