608 GENERAI> ANATOMY. the outer or culicular corial surface, I adopt it on the pre- sent occasion. According to the definition above given it comprehends the following diseases :—Measles, rash fever, scarlet fever, nettle-rash, rose-rash, common rash. This must be regarded as the simplest form of cutaneous inflammation. It may indeed be doubted whether it can just- ly be termed inflammation ; for though the capillaries of the cuticular surface of the corion are unnaturally distended with blood, and the usual functions of secretion and perspiration are suspended, it does not induce those consequences which succeed the inflammatory process in other tissues, or even in the same tissue, in a state of unequivocal inflammation. It may, however, be remarked, that in other respects the phe- nomena of the disorders referred to this head afford fair ex- amples of inflammatory action. The skin is permanently red, either continuously or in patches, or in spots of definite figure, diffusely swelled, and unusually warm, or rather hot and dry. Its sensations are also deranged; for the parts are either painful, smarting, or itching, as in nettle-rash, rose-rash, and common rash ; or the skin is generally tense and sore, as in measles and scarlet fever. In each of these diseases also, the capillaries of the outer or cuticular surface of the corion are inordinately distended with blood, which appears to move very slowly or stand entirely motionless in them. The skin of a person cut off during the progress of measles or scarlet fever is marked by innumerable mi- nute vessels disposed in various modes, arborescent, asteroid, reticular, &c.; and in some instances minute specks of blood are effused on the corion or into its substance. In scar- let fever, confined chiefly to the skin, the outer surface of the corion of the face, neck, and trunk, is particularly injected ; and towards the close of the disease this capillary injection is brownish or purple. The injection of the mucous sur- faces shall be noticed afterwards. In nettle-rash this in- jection is in circumscribed patches, and accompanied with ;( elevation, but disappears greatly after death. In erythe- 4