706 GENERAL ANATOMY. follicles. * In one oi- two instances of fatal confluent small- pox, I have seen the gastric mucous membrane deep-red, much loaded with vessels, and patches of extravasated blood, and similar appearances with bloody mucus in various parts of the ileum. In the same subjects, the tracheo-bron- chial membrane was of a deep-brown colour, and highly vascular. These phenomena explain the severity and fatality of this disease. d. The genito-urinary mucous membrane in both sexes is the seat of sundry forms of the inflammatory process. «. The urethral membrane, though forming a part of this surface, possesses, nevertheless, certain anatomical and sen- sible peculiarities. Smooth, and even polished, moistened by a thin transparent fluid, it is formed into the sinuosities named laciuice, which, like the follicles of other membranes, secrete a fluid of a peculiar odour, which, united with that of the general membrane, serves to lubricate the surface. Examined from its opening to its cystic extremity, it pre- sents divisions which may be enumerated in the following order, the spongy, the bulbous, the membranous, and the prostatic or vesical portions, according to the parts of the canal to which the membrane is attached. This membrane may be the seat of inflammation of two sorts ;—one circum- scribed and unsuppurative, the other spreading, and accom- panied with secretion of puriform or purulent matter, moi*e or less abundant. Urethria simplex.—Common inflammation of the urethra consists in redness, swelling, and pain of a certain part of the canal, which thus is rendered very narrow, or even may undergo temporary and partial obliteration. This affection is attended with painful tension of part or. the whole of the * " The pharynx and oesophagus were certainly much inflamed, as was the stomach, and more or less the whole of the intestines; but after the most diligent search, no trace whatever of the pustular action was found either in the pharynx, oesophagus, stomacli, or intestines." Howship, Observations. See also Cotunnii syntagma. Sec. xliii. xlix.