SKIK. 637 not hard, so much as doughy, tough, and fibro-cartilaginous. They did not, nevertheless, present the characters of carci- noma, but seemed to consist in an inflammatory indui'ation of the corial tissue. On the anatomical characters of the white scall' (vitiligo J, I possess no accurate information. I have often suspected that the appearances referred to this disease are in truth the effects of others more known. Yaws (frambcesia), consist in chronic inflammation of the corion taking place in circumscribed spots, attended part- ly with death of a portion of the corial substance, partly with growth of granular fungi,—the result of a peculiar morbid poison. On the nature and characters of this disease much miscon- ception has prevailed, chiefly from the erroneous notions to which its station, in the arrangement of Cullen, gave birth. These were first corrected in 1791 by Dr Jonathan Ander- son Ludford, who showed that yaws is a true cutaneous in- flammation, which, though more chronic, yet, like small-pox and other acute cutaneous eruptions, is preceded by febrile motions, and observes regular periods of accession, height, and decline.* The general accuracy of these facts has been confirmed by the testimony of Dr WiUiam Wright, t Dr Winterbottom, % Dr Joseph Adams, § and Dr James Thom- son, || who observed the phenomena of the disease in negroes or Europeans in the West Indies or elsewhere. Dr Dancer, who admits that they seldom make their appearance without previous indisposition, alone doubts the propriety of compar- ing them with small-pox and other eruptions. % * Tentamen Med. Inaug. de Frambcesia et Jon. Ludford Ed. 1791. \ Apud Adams on Morbid Poisons. X Account of the Native Africans, &c. by T. M. Winterbottom, M. D. London, 1803, Vol. ii. c. viii, $ Observations on Morbid Poisons, &c. by Jos. Adams, M. D. 2d Edit. London, 1807, chap. xvi. II Observations and Experiments, &c. Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. xv. 321, and xvii. 31. \ Tkc Medical Assistant, &c. by Thomas Dancer, M. D. Kingston, 180J, chap. ix. p. 201.