709 JMUCOUS MEMBRANE. ducts are rendered impervious, and in some instances ulcers take pkce. And in some instances the effect of this process is to obliterate both the longitudinal folds and the canaliculi of Morgagni. Ulceration, to which Morgagni himself had re- course, is not requisite to explain this occurrence, which may be affected by inflammatory thickening of their membrane. When the inflammation terminates in effusion of lymph into the submucous tissue, the swelling induces that contraction of the canal which constitutes stricture. ^. Cyslidia. Cystirrkcea.—-The cystic mucous membrane, like the urethral, is liable to inflammation either over its whole extent or at a single spot. The part most frequently affected is the neck of the bladder and the space termed cystic triangle {la trigone vesicate) ; a circumstance which has been ascribed to one of two causes. The first is, that the neck is most usually affected by mechanical obstructions to the pas- sage of the urine, and is therefore most likely to be the first seat of the irritation which connects injury and inflammatory action. The other is, that its contiguity to the urethra ren- ders it liable to be first aflfected by inflammation of that canal when disposed to spread, or when, in consequence of bad treatment, chronicity or other causes, urethral becomes an exciting cause of cystic inflammation. From either of these causes, inflammation may be deve- loped in the cystic mucous surface near the neck of the bladder, and may thence be propagated over a considerable extent of the membrane, which then becomes marked by red points, villous, highly vascular, and diffusely swelled, with occasional spots of extravasated blood. In general, the character of this inflammation is to spread; and in ordinary cases it does so without affecting the submucous or other tissues. Instances, however, occur in which it passes suc- cessively to the submucous filamentous tissue, to the muscu- lar, and thence to the peritoneal coat. In the spreading form the inflammation is attended with secretion of thick mucous or puriform fluid, which falls to the bottom of the urine. It may terminate in resolution, in suppuration, in destruc-