GENERAL ANATOMY. 712 urine discharged, that it is rarely observed. What is called cloudy urine, generally contains a little more of this mucous matter than usual. In the inflamed state it appears in the form of thick, opaque, viscid fluid, which falls to the bot- tom of the vessel, and in very severe cases it is puriform^ or purulent fluid, opaque and milky, but not ropy, and is occasionally reddish or streaked with blood. To account for the origin of this morbid secretion, Fanton conceived that follicles or mucous glands of the cystic membrane be- came inflamed, and increased their natural action.* The existence of such bodies in this membrane is nevertheless questionable ; and it is unnecessary to look for any other tissue save the mucous surface to explain the origin of the discharge. The other effects of this disease are weight, un- easiness, and sometimes tension in the hypogastric region; heat in voiding the urine ; uneasy parched condition of the skin of the legs and feet, with burning of the soles; thirst, quick pulse, impaired appetite, and general wasting. The constitutional disturbance and wasting generally prove fatal directly, or by inducing some fatal disease. Membranous substances have been observed to be dis- charged from the bladder by Willis, Ruysch, Boerhaave, and Morgagni. According to the account of the inspections, these are stated to be portions of the mucous membrane of the bladder. Though I feel difficulty in denying the testi- mony of observers so competent, I feel equal difficulty in admitting this exfoliation, which indeed is analogous to the exfoliations of the intestinal mucous membrane. It is equally possible, and not altogether impi'obable, that these membra- nous substances were albuminous concretions from the in- flamed cystic membrane. 7. The utero-vaginal mucous membrane of the female is not less important as a seat of morbid action. The labio-vaginal mucous membrane is often the seat of gonorrhceal inflammation, which seems to produce in it much the same effects as in the male urethra. In severe cases the nymphcE swell so much that they make, with the external la- * Dissert. Anatom. 1745.