616 GENERAL ANATOMY. distress. These phenomena are most distinctly seen in the rupia prominens and escharotica, and in a variety of the erup- tion, which I have witnessed in the persons of those who have been affected witli the constitutional symptoms of sy- philis, and who have for this been subjected to repeated com'ses of mercury ; (rupia cachectica.) Cow-pox (vaccinia,') whether in the teat of the cow, or the skin of the human subject, consists in local inflammation of the outer surface of the corion, which, by causing the secre- tion of a thin semitransparent fluid, elevates the cuticle in- to a vesicle. At the sanne time, the surrounding skin is red, sore and hard {areola j) and the inflammatory process de- noted by these signs causes suppuration of the corion, with some destruction of its substance, or what is termed ulcera- tion. If the thin fluid secreted by the vaccine vesicle either in the teat of the cow, or in the skin of the human subject, be taken before it has become opaque or puriform, and applied to the surface of the human corion exposed by scratching, slight incision, or suitable abrasion of the cuticle, it is follow- ed by local inflammation of the same characters as those of the original sore or vesicle, from which the morbid fluid is taken. The vaccine inflammation is naturally divided into two stages. 1. About the second or third day, or from fifty to seventy hours, after insertion of the fluid, the point of skin becomes red and slightly raised. This redness and elevation continue to increase till the cuticle is gradually elevated about the fifth or sixth day into a flat pearl-coloured spot or vesicle, which is found to derive its appearance from the secretion of thhi semitransparent fluid, formed during the inflammatory process of the corion. The figure of this spot or vesicle va- ries according to the manner in which the vaccine fluid has been applied to the part. If it is by a longitudinal incision or scratch, as is commonly done, the shape of the vesicle is oval; if it has been by longitudinal and transverse ones of nearly equal size, or by simple puncturg, then it is more or