786 gp:neral anatomy. cerebi'al membranes, which there is every reason to believe is a very uniform cause of that malady. The elaborate inspections of Greding, to whom I have had occasion formerly to allude, afford the first traces of compre- hensive views on the anormal states of the brain and its coverings, in the persons of the maniacal and epileptico-ma' niacal insane. According to the researches of this physician, the pin maler and arachnoid membrane are rarely sound in those affected with insanity. In 120 cases inspected, though in a few (5) the pia mater is stated to be pale, in more (9) it was reddish; and in a number still greater its vessels were injected with dark blood. The exterior surface was in 29 cases white, thick, and mucous ; sometimes dry and larda- ceous, like the buffy coat of inflamed blood near the vertex, along the mesial margins of the hemispheres. In 29 cases this alteration extended more generally over the membrane. In 9 it was observed over the convex and plane surfaces of the hemispheres; and in 6 it extended round tlie cerebellum and 7nedulla oblongata. The white, thick, opaque appear- ance Greding ascribes to subarachnoid effusion ; the dry lar- daceous to albuminous exudation. In 37 cases he found minute, pisifoi'm, or lenticular eminences, like a mustard- seed, a hemp-seed, or a pea, soft or hard, disseminated over the membrane; in 27 cases, more copious and thickly set; and in 14 cases accumulated abundantly. These bodies, which are to be distinguished from the glandules of Pacchioni, by situation, soft consistence, and milky colour, appear to be a product of the inflammatory process. I have occasionally seen them in subjects in whom the traces of chronic inflam- mation were distinct. * Similar changes in the cerebral membranes were recog- nized by Joseph Wenzel of Mayence,t and Chiarugi of Flo- rence. The latter especially, among 59 necroscopic in- * Melancholico-Maniaco et Kpilepticorum quorundam in Ptochotropheo Waldheimensi demortuorum sectiones tradit J. E. Greding, Continuatio 2da. Apud Ludwig Adversaria, VoL ii. Part iii. p. 449. f Observations sur le Cervelet et sur les diverses parties du cerveau dans les Epileptiques, par Jos. Wenzel, D. M.&c. Traduit par M. Breton. Pa- ris, 1811,