SYNOATAL MEMBRANE. 809 phalanges. In other parts of the body these sheaths are not very liable to inflamCj unless in consequence of external in- jury. From this cause I once witnessed severe inflammation terminating in effusion of purulent fluid in the synovial sheath between the tendon of the glutceus maximus and the head of the trochanter. After incision, however, it terminated favourably, without appearing to impair the motions of the tendon. Ganglia—A milder form of inflammation is occasionally seen in these sheaths, terminating in effusion of semitrans- parent, viscid, glairy fluid, like white of egg. This eff'usion causes an oblong prominent hemispheroidal swelling, tense, elastic, and communicating a sense of fluctuation, which has been long distinguished by the names of hygroma and gan- glio7i, according to the degree in which it takes place. As I restrict the former appellation to the serous cyst, there is no occasion for using two names to varieties of an affection the same in anatomical characters. Ganglion is subcutane- ous or tendinous, according to its situation in the subcutane- ous or tendinous synovial sacs. During gout the synovial sacs, both articular and tendin- ous, are the seat of an inflammatory process which terminates in the secretion of synovial fluid loaded with urate of soda. 2. Hemorrhage of the synovial membranes is not very common, but has nevertheless been observed. M. Pitet, in particular,. saw in the knee-joint a collection of blood, which he thinks was exhaled from the articular synovial membrane. * When this effusion does takes place it is an effect of previous injection of the capillaries of the sac. I have often thought that some of the bloody abscesses met with occasionally in the cellular tissue, and in the neighbour- hood of tendons, depended on synovial sacs in which hemor- rhage had followed chronic inflammation. This probably is the origin of the 17th case of Palletta, in which a bloody tumour containing pure blood was found in the left ham. -j- The incision of these tumours is always followed by exten- * Bulletin de la Societe de Med. p. 222. ■|- Exercitationcs Pathologica;, p. 207-