GENERAL ANATOMY. 722 cellular membrane of the placenta, and between the mem- branes, giving externally to the whole ovum a tumid and un- equal appearance, not vxnlike a lump of coagulated blood, for which it has been frequently mistaken, and then it is popularly called a false conception." * I have had occasion to observe the phenomena of several abortions with some care; and in every one I have traced them to some degree of hemorrhage taking place from the uterine or utero-pla- cental vessels. The blood which Denman remarks is found insinuated through the cellular membrane of the placenta is derived from the vessels of that body. It is not, therefore, the premature effort of the uterus to contract that constitutes abortion ; but the inordinate distension of its vessels, which terminates in hemorrhage, and the occurrence of which then excites the uterus to premature contraction. The vessels of the uterus and placenta, naturally full of blood, may, from a variety of causes operating on the mother, become unusu- ally distended, and discharge blood as in other hemorrhagic injections. This exudation taking place either at the uterine surface, or in the substance of the placenta, or in both at once, speedily detaches the placenta from the womb; the usual supply of blood is interrupted ; and the foetus perishes in consequence. In this sense only can the remark of Leake be well-founded. " Whatever may be the cause of abortion, the effect is produced by a separation of the after-burden from the womb, and consequently, the child, being deprived of nourishment, must soon perish and be expelled." t The difficulty here refers to the remote causes, which may be dif- ferent in different cases. The pathological cause is invariably the same. Febrile gastro-enteric hemorrhage That the black or cof- fee-ground vomit, {vomito prieto,) and dark-coloured, tar- like, or molasses-like stools, which take place in bad remit- tents, malignant agues, and yellow fever, consist in hemor- rhage from the gastro-enteric mucous membrane, is esta- blished by the researches of Physick, Dr John Hunter, Ban- • Principles of Midwifery, Vol. ii. p. 280. I Vol. i. p. 149.