SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 807 Section II. The diseases of synovial membrane are important. 1. Inflammation is an occurrence not unfrequent in the sy- novial tissue, and produces effects in many respects similar to those which are observed in the serous. Every example of diseased joint, there is reason to believe, commences with inflammation, acute or chronic, of the synovial membrane. Of this process the anatomical characters are injection of the membrane,which sometimes becomes veryred with numerous vessels, and occasionally traversed by crimson or brown spots and patches; dulness of its surface; opacity; thickening to a considerable extent, and some degree of pulpiness. The effects of the process are eff'usion of fluid, sometimes serous, sometimes ichorous or vitiated synovia, more especially tinged with blood, occasionally sero-albuminous fluid, which under- goes partial coagulation, and leaves the cavity distended with a thin sero-purulent liquid. In other instances, complete purulent matter, with curdy or albuminous flakes, are the result of synovial inflammation. If it fail to terminate in resolution, the fluid eff'usion in the synovial sac constitutes the simplest of those multiform affec- tions known under the name of white swelling, (hi/darihrus.) When this is not abundant the fluid part is absorbed, and the coagulable matter may contract adhesion to the free sur- face of the membrane. This is the origin of that species of ankylosis, sometimes general and complete, sometimes partial and imperfect, in which the articular synovial membrane is found united by bridles or ligaments of false membrane. When sero-purulent or purulent matter is eff"used into a synovial cavity, especially where the inflammation fails to be resolved or passes into the chronic state, ulceration of the capsule and the intei'ligamentous tissue is liable to take place; and the ichorous or sero-purulent fluid is discharged by one or more openings in the skin. In more advanced and chronic states the synovial membrane often becomes thick, pulpy, and vascular, granular or vil- lous on its surface, and is at length destroyed by ulcera-