645 SKIN. matter eliminated. It almost invariably again accumulates unless care be taken to keep the excretory duct pervious,— an object which is most easily and certainly attained by frequent ablution. This mode of explaining the origin of the cutaneous folliculated tumour was understood by Mor- gagni, * Haller, Plenck, t and Monteggia, % and has been re- cently revived by Sir Astley Cooper. § 5. Scirrho-carcinoma of the skin is not uncommon. Though it may occur in any part of the cutaneous covering, it com- mences most frequently in situations where the corion is de- licate and thinly covered. The skin of the face, especially of the eyelids, prolabium, and nose, is a frequent seat of this disorder; and next to these, perhaps, are to be placed the nipple of the female and the penis of the male, the corion of which are liable to be affected by this morbid structure. The scrotum is very often the seat of that peculiar carcino- matous destruction occurring in the personsof chimneysweep- ers. In all these cases the structure is much the same. In the situation of the corion is seen a tough firm substance of fibro-cartilaginous structure, the fibrous bands being gene- rally arranged in a waving direction. In the most distinct example of the disease which I examined personally—a case of scirrho-carcinomatous degeneration of the whole skin of the penis, these fibrous bands were disposed transversely to the long direction of the part, and appeared to consist of a fibro-cartilaginous long band folded repeatedly on itself. The reparation of the corion when destroyed has been maintained by many authors. Notwithstanding their asser- tions, however, this membrane is never, after its substance has been injured, restoi'ed to its original state. The breach is filled up by firm cellular tissue, the upper surface of which • Adversaria Anatomica. t " Sedes meliceridis," says Plenck, " in glandula subcutanea esse videtur. Quicquid ergo porum excretorium glandulce subcutaneee obdurat, contentum succum inspissat, vel ejus absorptionena impedit, meliceridem producere valet." Systema Tumorum, CI. vii. p. 153. Viennse, 1767. t Istituzione Chirurgiche, Volume ii. § Surgical Essays, Part 2.