619 SKIN. formed. They appear to consist in separate points of in- flammation, at wiiich the corial vessels dischai-ge, as in other examples of the inflammatory process, sero-albuminous fluid, which is soon coagulated in a definite form. The coagulated portions form the partitions of the cells, within which the fluid part is contained. The appearance of the red ring (areola) which takes place about the eighth day, indicates the commencement of the secondary inflammation. This consists in the action being propagated to the substance of the corion, which is effected to some depth in the formation of puriform or purulent matter, and in destruction of part of its tissue. The subsequent phenomena and effects are easily understood. It is a remarkable property of cow-pock inflammation, that it modifies considerably not only the variolous inflam- mation, but that produced by itself. The second applica- tion of the vaccine lymph in\a person who has previously undergone this disease, produces a smaller vesicle of the same characters, but less intensely marked. If the applica- tion be made while the first is still in progress, and before its areola has appeared, it produces a vesicle which runs its course more rapidly than the original one, and termi- nates nearly at the same time with it. This constitutes the lest-pock or vesicle of Mr Bryce. Of chicken-pox as a cutaneous inflammation sometimes affecting the corial substance, I have already merely spoken. Like instances of the punctuate inflammation, though it com- mences at the surface of the corion with sero-albuminous secretion, it very often proceeds to suppuration, and occa- sionally affects the corial tissue. This is seen in the lenti- cular and more distinctly in the conoidal chicken-pox, in which the suppurated points are marked by depressions. The cutaneous punctuate inflammation of chicken-pox may be considered as the link which connects the vesicular and the pustular eruptions. The facts now adduced show that it is impossible to draw a distinct line between the vesicle and the pustule, as was