800 GENERAL ANATOMY. 9. Hygroma—The serous cyst is not uncommon in the dia- phanous membranes. It appears, however, from various ob- servations, to be most frequent in the attached surface, or in the subserous tissue. 10. Hydatids—These globular sacs are believed to be almost proper to the serous membranes. It is certain that in these they are more frequently observed than elsewhere. Thus they are found attached to the pleura, to the pericardium, to the peritonaeum, and to the vaginal coat; and in some rare cases they have been seen in the choroid plexus. Thus Fischer found the ta;nia hydaligena of Pallas, or the cyslicercus py- riformis of Zeder, attached to this membrane by a peduncle, and vesicular bodies, supposed to be of the same genus, at- tached to the arachnoid surface of the dura mater. The writings of Bonetus, Morgagni, and other collectors, contain frequent examples of pulmonary hydatids, several of which were originally hydatids of the pleura, and several of the subserous tissue. In the peritonaeum they are still more frequent; and Dr Monro terlius gives a valuable collection of cases, in which these bodies were found connected with va- rious regions of that membrane. Though the cysticercus or solitary hydatid is occasionally found, those more usually seen in this membrane are the ccenuri and cchinococci, or the gregarious form of the animal. Of this description, I saw some years ago a very good example. In the body of a man of about 45, who died with the usual symptoms of dropsy, two globular cysts, one as large as a child's head, were found attached to the hepatic peritonaeum. In each of these were contained an immense number of globular cysts containing transparent fluid, about half an inch or eight lines in diame- ter, and surrounded in like manner by a transparent fluid. Two similar cysts, each containing many small ones, were found attached to part of the ileum. These bodies caused during life irregular prominent tumours of the belly. Hy- datids are also common in the vaginal coat. 11. Fungus Hcematodes is^served to take place in this tis- sue. One example, in which it originated in the hepatic