GENERAL ANATOMY. 618 the time when the vaccine fluid was first applied. It leaves a permanent uniform scar, distinguished by minute pits or depressions corresponding to the number of cells of which the vesicle consisted. During the progress of the local inflammation some dis- order of the constitution takes generally about the seventh or eighth day, in the form of loss of appetite or sickness, slight thirst and heat, and dryness of the skin. The pulse is almost never affected. The vaccine vesicle may also pro- duce sundry cutaneous inflammations, very transitory, and of a secondary nature. Of these the vaccine rose-rash Cros- eola vaccina) is the most important and frequent. It must not be understood that vaccine fluid when ap- plied to the human body ever produces a general eruptive disease like itself over the person. This, indeed, was be- lieved to be the case at first by Jenner, Pearson, Woodville, and perhaps some others. But more correct knowledge of the history of the disease shows that its action is confined to the identical spots to which it is applied ; that these, and these only, become the seat of genuine vaccine inflammation; and that whatever eruptions or other morbid changes in the skin succeed, or have been said to succeed, the communica- tion of cow-pock to the human body are not the result of its genuine or proper action. It is strictly and truly a local morbid process. The history above given of the progress and characters of the vaccine vesicle, shows clearly that the application of the vaccine fluid, under proper conditions, is succeeded by a lo- cal inflammation of the corion, which observes a definite pro- gress, divisible into two stages. In the first of these stages, which may be termed the primary or immcdiale, the inflam- matory process is confined with great accuracy to the cuti- cular surface of the corion, and, diff'using itself very uniformly from the point of insertion at equal distances in every direc- tion, terminates in effusion of lymph or sero-albuminous fluid, and elevation of the cuticle. During the first stage, which lasts about seven or eight days, the minute cells are