692 GENERAL ANATOMY. submucous tissue are destroyed nearly to the same extent; and that the muscular is less, and the peritonaeum scarcely at all destroyed. The effect of perforation is, as in the case of the stomach, 1st, escape of the intestinal contents to a greater or less ex- tent ; 2d, the developement of peritoneal inflammation, with albuminous deposition on the peritonaeum. The period which elapses between the commencement of ulceration and the completion of erosion varies in different cases. According to the observations of Louis, already quoted, it may be inferred that in a space varying from 12 to 25 days, the ulcer or ul- cers may effect destruction of the intestinal tunics. The oc- currence of the final laceration of the peritoneal coat may be conjectured by the patient experiencing all at once in the belly intense tearing pain, aggravated by pressure, speedily followed by shrinking of the features, vomiting, &c. which continuing with almost incessant severity from 20 to 54j hours, denote intense peritoneal inflammation terminating in death. In one case, which, howevei", must be regarded as an exception, life was continued for seven days after the ap- pearance of symptoms of perforation. Enteria mollescens—Under this head may be placed a change observed by Louis in the ileum of many persons cut off by phthisis and other chronic diseases. It consists in the mucous membrane becoming exceedingly soft, almost like mucus or jelly, sometimes thicker than natural, and some- times redder. In the instances in which I have observed this change in phthisical subjects, the intestinal villi were less distinct than natural. But whether this arose from re- moval of these bodies or from the pulpy swelling of the mu- cous corion, or from absolute disorganization, I have not been able to determine. It is rarely continuous, and occurs chiefly in large patches, which occupy, however, the whole circumference of the bowel. Chronic ulceration To this head I refer a form of dis- ease of which I have seen several instances in children la- bouring under symptoms of mesenteric wasting; (tabes.) I