SKIN. 629 him Bateman, placed this disease among the order of tuber- cular eruptions. But this they have done, I am satisfied, without due consideration either of the characters of the pestilential carbuncle, or of those which they assign to the order of tubercles. From careful comparison of the most authentic accounts of pestilential carbuncle, it commences as an inflamed spot in the corial surface and substance. The inflammation of the surface speedily induces sei'o-albuminous secretion and detachment of the cuticle, which is elevated in the form of bluish irregular blister; while beyond this the skin is of a fiery red colour, hard, and the seat of searing pain. The simul- taneous inflammation of the corial substance speedily kills that membrane, which is then felt in the form of a hard black mass, surrounded by living but highly inflamed skin. This dead portion is afterwards, if the patient survive, detached in the form of a mortified slough. The carbuncle of oriental plague seems not to be quite similar to the ordinary carbuncle seen in this country. Of the disease termed malignant pustule by the French and other foreign authors, (Anthracion ; Nar al-Parsi; Per- sian Jire,) we can scarcely speak from experience in this country, in which, so far as I am aware, the disease is un- known. From the description given by Enaux and Chaus- sier, Vicq-D'Azyr, Pinel, Ozanam, and others, it appears to consist in inflammation of the outer surface of the co- rion, speedily depriving that membrane of its vitality. It may commence in one or two modes; Jirst, as a hard, red, burning, not elevated point, speedily causing bluish or red- dish-blue fluid secretion, elevating the cuticle into a purple or pale blue blister, (phlyctana;) Second, as a hard knotty substance slightly elevated into a doughy swelling, and causing detachment of the cuticle by similar eff'usion. In both cases the affected corion undergoes mortification partial or general, and is then detached as a foreign body. In some respects this resembles the ordinary carbuncle of this country. But it differs particularly in this, that the malignant pustule (anthracion,) is ascribed by the best au-