MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 695 been established by that author on authentic proofs. En- largement of these glands is indeed^ I have elsewhere said, a common effect of irritation at the organic extremities of their lymphatics. §. Colonia. Dysentery. Colonitis.—The opinion that dysen- tery depends on inflammation of the bowels is very ancient; but the authority of Cullen succeeded for a time in throw- ing doubt and obscurity on a doctrine, in favour of which various positive and unequivocal facts have since been col- lected. The state of the intestines in this disease has been de- scribed by Pringle, Baker, Donald Monro, Hunter, and Bail- lie, Cheyne, and O'Brien ; and their accounts, with some trif- ling exceptions, in general correspond. In four dissections made by Pringle in the Flandei's campaign of 1744, the villous coat of the colon was red or vascular, and abraded or ulcerated; the lower end of the colon, and generally the rectum, was in a state termed mortification; the ligamentous bands are said to be relaxed, half corrupted, or entirely obliterated; and the colon, sometimes the ileum and stomach, much distended by air. * In the inspections recorded by Baker of the London epide- mic of 1762, the villous membrane of the rectum, colon, coe- cum, and occasionally part of the ileum, was more or less reddened, velvety-granular, and occupied by numerous mi- nute bodies like small-pox pustules, but harder and solid when divided, and fungous eminences. In one case four or five perforations had taken place in the transverse arch of the colon. \ In persons cut off by old dysentery, Monro re- presents the villous membrane of the rectum and colon as inflamed with livid spots in the arch of the latter; and in one seized by violent pains of the bowels two days before death the ileum reddened. % From a subsequent account by the same author, it appears that the colic mucous membrane as high as the valve, was occupied by livid or black spots of * Observations on the Diseases of the Army, by Sir John Pringle, M. D. London, 1768. Chap. C. t De Catarrho et de Dysenteria Londinensi epidemicis utrisque, anno 17C2, Libellus. Auct. G. Baker, Coll. R. &c. Lond. 1764. \ An account of the Diseases, &c. By Donald Monro, M. D. Lond, 1761.