701 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. dell mentions one in which an ulcer of the sigmoid flexure effected an opening into the urinary bladder. * ^. Inflammatory induration.—Another effect of inflammation common to the gastro-enteric mucous membrane with others, is more or less permanent thickening of its substance, or that of the submucous tissue, inducing contraction of the ca- pacity of the canal. This takes place in the oesophagus, in the cystic and common bile ducts, and in the intestines, small and great. In the oesophagus it constitutes one of the most manageable forms of stricture of that tube, in so far as the swelling, under proper management, occasionally disap- pears. (Grashuis, Bleuland, Monro, Howship.) Its most usu- al seat is in the neighbourhood of the cricoid cartilage, and oc- casionally at the cardia. A good example of the former is delineated by Dr Armstrong. In the common biUary duct I have seen this inflammatory thickening give rise to jaun- dice ; and I suspect this, and not spasm of the tube, is the most frequent cause of biliary obstruction. In the ileum this contraction is perhaps less frequent than in the colon. Yet in the case above-mentioned the diameter of the bowel was very much diminished, chiefly by inflammation of the submucous and subserous filamentous tissue ; and Dr Charles Combe records an interesting example of thickening of the lower end of the ileum, in which the capacity of the bowel was diminished to the size of a turkey's quill, t In the co- lon this inflammatory induration is more frequent. It takes place chiefly in the sigmoid flexure, and in the connection with the rectum. Of the former instances are recorded by Haase, Christian Wincker, Laubius, Portal, and Baillie, and delineated by Mr Annesley ; and indeed it is no uncommon consequence of tropical dysentery. Of its occurrence in the latter situation Willan records an excellent example; and I may add, that I have seen several cases of it in persons who have returned to this country after severe or long continued dysentery. rj. In some rare instances more or less of the intestinal rau- cous membrane has become completely dead, and been dis- • M m Med. Society. t Transact, Coll. Phys. Vol. iv. p. 16.