730 GENERAL ANATOMY. spersed with cartilaginous points. This is observed in the oesophagus (Bonetus, Bleuland, Palletta, Mr David Hay, &c.) in the cardiac and pyloric orifices of the stomach and in the rectum. In the latter it forms many of the examples of scirrho-contraction of that organ. This affection appears to consist in peculiar chronic induration with degeneration of the mucous follicles, in situations abounding in which it most usually occurs. It is observed to attack very often the neck of the uterus. It is totally distinct from the tyroma- tous deposition of strumous habits, with which it has been occasionally confounded by some observers. The tyroma- tous deposition occurs chiefly in the young, and has been seen even in infants. Tubercular induration is a disease of middle age and declining years. For some judicious obser- vations on the developement and distinctions of these two varieties of cancer, I refer to the writings of Bayle and Cru- veilhier, and a recent work of Scarpa. * A third form in which cancerous disease attacks the mu- cous tissues is that of lardaceous degeneration. In certain regions, indeed, this is so rare that it is never seen. For ex- ample, though not very frequent in the gastro-enteric mu- cous membrane, it has been observed in the oesophagus and rectum. It is not known in the tracheo-bronchial mem- brane. In the uterus, however, it is very common; and I have seen several instances in which the neck and part of the body of this organ was converted into a ceromatous and apparently inorganic mass. The decomposition of this mor- bid deposition is peculiar. It terminates not in ulceration, but in a species of softening and pulpy disorganization or lique- faction, rendering the decomposing surface doughy or pasty like soft lard, traversed by marks of erosion similar to those produced by the gnawing of animals, 8. Warty excrescences are occasionally found in mucous membranes. They consist of hard eminences often fissured, sometimes sessile with broad base, occasionally peduncular, and occasionally pass into bad ulceration. They are most fre- " Opusculi di Chirurgia ili Antonio Scarpa, &c. vol. i. Pavia, 1825.