SKIN. progress of the small-pox is therefore to form a number of sloughs under the skiiij (on the cuticular or outer surface of the corion), and the danger depends on the number formed, and the violence which the constitution suffers from the first shock of that siimitlus which excites it into this process. If the stimulus of the small-pox virus is moderate, its local ac- tion follows by adhesive inflammation and slough; after which, the parts and constitution have sustained the first shock, and the subsequent process of suppuration, to sepa- rate the slough, is accomplished with so much ease, that the constitution is rarely sensible of any general inconvenience. But the face having sustained the first shock, the actions on that part began with the greatest rapidity, and continue so throughout their whole progress; in consequence of which the pus has a higher tinge, and the progress of skinning be- ginning as soon as the slough begins to separate, this irregu- larity produces an inequality in the^ surface of the pustule. On the contrary, the actions being slower in other parts, the pustules acquire the property of common sloughs, and gra- nulation follows suppuration for the restoration of the lost part."* According to the observations of Cruickshank, this white slough is not situate in the corion, but in a vascular mem- brane exterior to it, and immediately beneath the cuticle. This anatomist macerated in water for a week several por- tions of small-pox skin, which he had previously injected, and kept for some time in spirits. " The spirits with which they had been impregnated made them resist the effects of this water longer. Cuticle and rele miicosum were already turned down, and upon the eighth or ninth day I found I could separate a vascular membrane from the cutis, in which were also situated the injected small-pox pustules. These last consisted of circles of long floating villi at the circum- fei'ence, but of a white uninjected substance in the centre. This central part Mr Hunter had previously said was a slough formed by the irritation of the variolous matter."f * Morbid Poisons, p, 364. ■}• Experiments, &c. p. 41.