816 NOTES. fourth; and the membrane which may be separated some days after the separation of the last, by continuing the maceration, and which shows the pores still larger, makes the fifth. These two last membranes, I fancy, might easi- ly be detected in the skins of those who die of the measles, scai'let-fever, or other eruptive diseases, as well as in the small-pox skin; for I conceive that these eruptive diseases do not create, but demonstrate these membranes, in conse- quence of the great determination of blood in these cases to the skin."—Experiments, &c. p. 43. According to M. Gaultier, the mucous body of the negro skin consists of four parts ; 1st, a series of minute vascular bundles, to which M. Gaultier applies the name of " bour- geons sanguins," and which are really the termination of vessels ramified on the papillae ; 2d, the deep whitish layer, consisting of white vessels, and indicated in an oblique sec- tion of the negro skin, by a white line between the surface of the corion and a darker undulating line ; 3d, the colour- ed layer, named by M. Gaultier gemmules,'—the true colour- ing matter of the skin,—indicated by the undulating line already noticed; 4</«, the superficial white layer, consisting of serous vessels as the first, indicated by a white line be- tween the dark undulating line and the cuticle. The vascular eminences (bourgeons sanguins) of M. Gaul- tier, are the termination of the cutaneous papillae; and this in- duces M. Dutrochet to give the following view of the consti- tuent parts of the cutaneous tissue. 1st, the derma, or corion, the true skin of the ancient anatomists; 2c?, the papillae, or mi- nute elevations of this membrane ; Sd, the epidermal mem- brane of the papillae, which is the deep whitish layer of M. Gaultier ; Uh, a coloured layer, the proper colouring matter of the skin ; 5th, a horny layer, which corresponds to the superficial whitish layer of Gaultier ; and, 6ih, the epider- mis, or cuticle. THE END. EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY JOHN STARK, Old Asseitibly Close,