708 GENERAL ANATOMY. The first of these is the hollow named navicular fossa, about 1, H, or 2 inches from the orifice, or the anterior end of the spongy portion of the membrane. This re- gion abounds with the canaliculi, to which Morgagni tra- ced the secretion ; and in the dissections of John Hunter it was vmiformly found redder, and more vascular or blood- shot than usual, and the lacmice often filled with matter. Secondly, in cases in which the inflammation is more exten- sive, the membranous part of the canal, Cowper's glands and their ducts, are involved in the morbid process. This, however, is exceedingly rare, according to Littre, Morgagni, and Baillie. The first, after inspecting forty cases of ure- thral inflammation, found in one case only the glands of Cowper morbid. Morgagni met with one or two instances only ; and John Hunter remarks, that if the matter of clap were secreted and deposited either beyond or in the bulb, it would be incessantly ejected by the muscles, as occurs in re- gard to the urine and seminal fluid. In cases yet more ex- tensive, the prostatic part of the urethra has been known to be inflamed ; and in very violent forms of clap, the inflam- mation has been found to extend to the bladder itself. It thus appears that no portion of the canal, from its orifice to the neck of the bladder, is exempt from inflammation; and every part of the membrane between these two points has been found more or less reddened, slightly villous, vascular, and more or less swelled, so as to diminish sensibly the cali- bre of the canal. It is observed by Dr Baillie, that the in- flammation may pass from the mucous to the submucous membrane, and the surrounding tissue of the spongy body, which thus becomes larger and harder, in consequence of loaded vessels and effused lymph, than in the natural state. It is not improbable that this morbid state of the spongy body, by irritating the iscMo-cavernosi muscles, and exciting them to action, gives rise to the painful affection denomi- nated chordae. The glands of Cowper have been seen indurated and like tubercles, in consequence of inflammation; occasionally their