GENERAL ANATOMY. 690 instance consisted in the reddened mucous membrane be- coming elevated, rough, and uneqvial to the touch, and in erosion taking place at several points. * 4. A considerable extent of the membrane may be diffusely red or reddish brown, or with a general rose-coloured ground may pre- sent red or brown patches of a more intense tint. The membrane is at the same time soft, friable, pulpy, and often thickened; the mucous glands are enlarged and red- dish ; and the membrane is covered more or less extensively by thick, semi-opaque viscid mucus of a reddish or wine- coloured tint. This form of the disease is also said to pro- ceed to ulceration. When it does so, the process takes place not only in spots and patches of the mucous membrane, but in the follicles, which are converted into a number of oval reddish-brown ulcers. 5. Part of the intestinal mucous membrane may present numerous vesicular or pustular ele- vations, not unlike thrush vesicles (^ajjlithce'), which may terminate in the formation of abraded spots or minute ulcers. Excoriation and abrasion is mentioned by various authors; but I think none of them distinguish between this and ulce- ration, of which I regard it as the incipient stage. Abrasion consists, properly speaking, in the removal of epidermis; but as the existence of this in the gastro-enteric membrane is still problematical, it may be doubted whether there is other abrasion than what I now admit. 6, In certain forms of intestinal inflammation, the morbid process appears in the shape of spheroidal or conoidal circumscribed eminences, which are red, fungous, and irregular, and form a con- spicuous prominence of the mucous membrane. These bodies which thus resemble pustules, and are surrounded by a red hoop {areola), are represented by M M. Bretonneau and Trousseau to consist in inflammation of the mucous fol- licles of Peyer and Brunner. According to the former of these observers especially, this follicular inflammation, passing occasionally to ulceration, is a most frequent form of intes- tinal disease not only primary, but occurring in the course * An Account of the Disease, &c. p. 48.