698 GENERAL ANATOMY. a shilling. The lower end of the ileum presented a few small patches of ulceration scarcely peneti-ating the mucous co- rion. In the ccecum, on the other hand, they were deeper, and had not only penetrated this membrane, but were de- stroying the submucous tissue. In the ascending portion and transverse arch they had effected equal destruction, and in one or two the peritonaeum only was left. The bottom or surface of these ulcers varied according to the stage of de- struction. In the least advanced, in which the mucous tis' sue was not entirely destroyed, the surface of the ulcer was a sort of pale-red or gray-brown colour. When the sur- face was formed by exposed submucous tissue it was more ashen-coloured, but with red streaks depending on blood- vessels. The muscular layer gave it a red or brown tint; and where the peritonaeum was exposed, it was thickened, red- dened, and in general coated by a layer of lymph on its free surface. The edges of these ulcers, if formed of mucous tis- sue, were generally well-marked, sometimes thickened, and occasionally slightly turned upwards from destruction of the submucous filamentous layer. Seldom were they red ; and their most prevailing tint was light or ash-coloured brown. The colic mucous membrane was generally traversed by blood-vessels at variable distances from each other. The villi were obliterated and indistinct. The valvular folds also were destroyed, and the cellular arrangement of the bowel could no longer be recognized. It is not unimportant to know that these ulcers of the in- testinal mucous membrane may, under certain circumstances, undergo a process of reparation. The steps of this process, which was originally observed by Dr Donald Monro, have been well described by Petit and Serres in their account of the entero-mesenteric disease of Paris, and by Dr Latham in that of the epidemic of Millbank Penitentiary. From the obser- vations of these authors it results, that the first step towards repair consists in the loose margin of ulcerated raucous mem- brane becoming fastened down to the muscular layer or the peritoneal coat respectively, by deposition of lymph all round. This lymphy deposition forms an elevated promi- 3