SKIN. 617 less regularly circular ; and if the scratches have been nume- rous and irregular in direction, or if the fluid has been ap- plied irregularly, the shape of the vesicle is also irregular. From its first appearance its upper surface is uneven, the margin being more elevated than the centre, and shining, firm, and distended, so as to project slightly beyond the plane of its base, or unaffected cuticle. This appearance it presents till the eighth day, when the surface is observed on the ninth to be even ; and in some instances the centre may be higher than the margin. At this time, when the vesicle is supposed to be fully formed, it is found to consist of many minute communicating cells, in which the fluid is contained. This cellular disposition is characteristic of the vaccine vesi- cle ; for it is found to occur under every variety of circum- stances when the origin of the vesicle is genuine, and its pro- gress uninterruptedo 2. The circumstance now remarked may be regarded as denoting the termination of the first and the commencement of the second stage. About the same time, the skin round the vesicle becomes hard, tense, and red, so as to form a ring or hoop, from one to two lines broad all round, and from a quar- ter to two inches in diameter, according to the size of the vesicle. This hard red hoop, which has been named areola, marks an augment or increase of inflammation in the sub- stance of the corion, which continues with pain, tension, and hardness, in some instances with obvious swelling of the con- tiguous parts, till the end of the tenth or the beginning of the eleventh day. At the same time the fluid of the vesicle be- comes opaque and thick like purulent matter, rendering the centre yellowish, and depriving it of its pearly distended as- pect. On the eleventh and twelfth days, as the marginal redness fades, the surface of the vesicle becomes brown in the centre, and less clear on the margin ; the cuticle begins to separate; and the fluid of the vesicle gradually thickens into a hard round scab or crust of a reddish or yellow brown colour, which afterwards becomes black, dry, and shrivelled, and is loosened, and drops off about the twentieth day after