702 GENERAL ANATOMY. charged like a foreign body. Of this mode of exfoliation of the mucous membrane of the ileum, occasionally with the muscular and peritoneal tunics, good examples are recorded by Monro second from Cullen, * Mr William Dougall, t Dr T. Sanden, j and Mr John Bower. § Dr Baillie records a case in which a large portion of the colic membrane was void- ed ; II and Mr J. M. Bowman mentions one in which a por- tion of the colon and ccecum with attached mesocolon are said to have been discharged. ^ &. An effect of inflammation of the gastro-enteric membrane, as well as the tracheo-bronchial, is albuminous or sero-albu- minous exudation. This was observed by M. Bretonneau in the oesophagus ; by Baillie, Andral, Howship, Godman, and Villerme, in the stomach; and by a considerable number of authors in the colon. In all cases the formation of these membranous substances has been preceded and accompanied by marks of inflammatory action. In the cases of M. Bre- tonneau they were connected with tracheal and oesophageal inflammation.* * In that of Howship it was the consequence of swallowing boiling water ;tt in the cases of Andral it occur- red in connection with fever ; J J and in those of Godman and Villerme |||| it was connected with chronic inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane. In the intestinal canal it is invariably the consequence of some degree of inflammato- ry action. /. Febrile Gastro-enteria.—Gastro-enteric inflammation has been considered above chiefly as a primary and idiopathic disorder. It is, however, not unfrequently observed as a concurrent symptom or effect of many disorders reputed pri- • Essays, Physical and Literary, Vol. ii. p. 395. \ Medical Comment. Vol. ix. p. 278. X Annals of Med. Vol. vi, p. 29G. $ lb. Vol. vii. p. 346. II Transactions of a Society, &c. Vol. ii. p. 144. ^ Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. ix. p. 492. •* Des Phlegmasies des Membranes Muqueuses. tt Practical Remarks on Indigestion, &c. London, 1825. XX Clinique Medicale, &c. Paris, 1823. §§ The Philadelphia Journal. 1825. nil Archives Generales, tome xiv. 182?. P. CI4.