GENERAL ANATOMY. 794 stance of the hemispheres, it is inferred that it must have is- sued from the plexus. There is no reason to suppose that the vessels of this web are ruptured in this form of hemor- rhage. The fluid is rarely pure blood, generally sanguino- lent; but even if ever pure, the observations of Bichat, Merat, and Serres, show that it may ooze by exhalation from the plexus. It constitutes the meningeal apoplexy of Serres. It is further an interesting confirmation of this view, that hemorrhage of the same nature may take place from the arachnoid of the membranes of the spinal chord, and give rise to similar symptoms, though modified by the situation of the effusion. Of this variety of arachnoid hemorrhage, an instance is quoted by Sauvages from Duverney, under the title of asphyxia spinalis; but the best examples are those recorded by M. Chevalier in the 3d volume of the Me- dico Chirurgical Transactions, and that by Sir A, Cooper in his work on Dislocation. In these cases blood coagulated and fluid was found in the spinal canal between the membranes, and the vessels of the membranes were inordinately loaded. Pleurwrnia ; hwmalhorax—On this form of hemorrhage, instances of which are recorded by Morgagni and Lieutaud, which has been well described by Merat and Laennec, it is unnecessary to say more. Merat informs us that this he- morrhage proved fatal to Professor Mahon. * Hasmacardia, or hemorrhage from the pericardium, has been not less overlooked than the other bloody discharges of the serous membranes. In the few instances which have been recorded, it has generally been ascribed to laceration or rupture of the auricles, venous sinuses, or organs of the large vessels, allowing the blood contained to escape and distend the pericardium. In the instances to which I now advert, the most minute and diligent search was inadequate to detect either rupture, laceration, or minute orifices by which blood could escape ; and it must therefore be inferred, that it issues from the membrane by the process of exhalation. Of this singular hemorrhage, four distinct and authentic • Journal de Medecine, Tome ix. p. 132.