688 GENERAL ANATOMY. his own person, and others mentioned in his 31st epistle, in the Reports of Ludovic Bang for 1782 and 1787, may be found distinct traces of the opinion, that intestinal inflamma- tion gives rise to diarrhoea. * Much about the same time, (1788,) Carmichael Smyth conjectured, " that in diarrhoeas, from catching cold, the villous or interior coat of the stomach and intestines is sometimes slightly inflamed." f This conjec- ture was afterwards confirmed by the researches of Baillie, % Pinel, § Hildenbrand, || Broussais, % Petit and Serres, ** Abercrombie, Andral, Latham, tt and lastly Billard. The proofs collected by these authors it is unnecessary to examine minutely. They establish indisputably the inference, that the red or rose tint of mere injection of the mucous mem- brane is adequate to produce all the symptoms of diarrhoea passing into dysentery. The state of the intestinal membrane, as discovered by necroscopy, may vary according to the ex- tent of the disease, or the kind of the inflammatory process. 1. The simplest form is that in which the mucous surface is light reddish, or rose-coloured over a large extent,—an ap- pearance which depends on superficial injection of the villous m embrane. The villi are red, and more or less gorged with blood. This state, besides producing copious mucous or sero-gelati- nous discharges, is very often the pathological cause of intesti- • Selecta Diarii Nosocomii Regii Hafniensis, Auctore Frederico Ludovico Bang, Vol i. p 47, Vol. ii. and 233, 314, 360, 361. ■f Medical Communications, Vol. ii. p. 210' J " It does not always happen," says Baillie, " whjn a person has died from fatal purging, that there are ulcers in the intestines. In two cases which I have opened of persons who died from this complaint, the small intestines were inflamed, so as to present the appearance of distinct vessels, the small branches of arteries curling most beautifully at the outer surface of the in- testine filled with florid blood, and the villous coat being slightly red."— Dissections, &c. p. 218. § Medecine Clinique et Nosographie Philosophique, Tom. ii. II Ratio Medendi in Instit. Clinico. Phlegmasies Chroniques. Traite de la Fievre Entero-Mesenterique. ■ff An Account of the Disease lately prevalent at the General Penitentiary. By P. M. Latham, M. D. &c. Lond. 1825.