SEROUS MEMBRANE. 799 ing in size and shape, attached to the free surface of the membranes. By some authors this is regarded as a preli- minary step to ossification. But this is not established. 8. Ossificalion In no texture, perhaps, is osseous ileposi- tion more frequent than in the serous. It occurs in every one of these membranes without exception. In the arach- noid it is not un frequently seen in the form of osseous plates at the inner surface of the dura mater, and the free surface of the pia malcr. In the pleura and pericardium it is exceed- ingly common, instances of it being noticed by most authors, and numerous specimens of it contained in museums. In the pleura it is most common in the costal division, large portions of which are sometimes found converted into broad flat patches of bone. The instances of ossification of the diaphragm are of the same nature. In the pericardium it is probably most frequent in the cardiac division, and consti- tutes those cases vaguely denominated ossified hearts. In the peritonaeum it is less frequent; but is remarked in par- ticular portions of this membrane. Thus it is common in the muscular, diaphragmatic, splenic, and uterine perito- naeum, less frequent in the hepatic and colic, and scarcely seen in the ileal. These patches, though hard, firm, and apparently solid like bone, never present the organization peculiar to that substance. Its presence is generally con- nected with traces of inflammation or at least injection of the membrane ; and Rayer has lately, in an elaborate essay, attempted to prove that osseous deposition is a result of that process. * Indeed, many circumstances render it highly probable that chronic inflammation of serous tissue causes effusion of lymph, which is eventually converted into osseous matter. One of the most satisfactory proofs of this principle is, that osseous induration of the peritonaeum is very com- mon in hernial protrusions of the intestine, in which the membrane is subjected to slow inflammation ; and that the vaginal coat of the testicle is often cartilaginous, or even bony in cases of old hydrocel^. • Archives Generates, Tom. vii.