GENERAL ANATOMY. 1. The influence of duration is observed in the compara- 6^0 thorities to contagion, and very often is traced to epizootic contagion, or pestilence occurring among the lower animals. The great pock, {ecthyma,') consists in an eruption of red, hard, sore pustules (phli/zacia,) distinct, seldom numerous, without primary fever, and not contagious. In the three species of ordinary fE. vulgare), infantile (E. infantum), and dingy pock, (E. luridum), the pustules are round or oval hard masses fixed in the substance of the skin, which is red, hard, and swelled, and terminating first in elevation and des- quamation of the cuticle, and then in imperfect softening, discharging a serous and generally blood-coloured fluid, which concretes into a foul dark-brown or reddish scab, which at length drops off, leaving the subjacent skin reddish, and marked by a depressed scar, indicating the affection of the corial substance. g. Cutaneous injlammaiions originating in the substance of the corion, sometimes at the bulbs of the hair, terminating in partial or imperfect suppuration, with formations of scales, crusts, and occasionally sloughs, and more or less destruction of the corial tissue. The pathological reader may perceive that the last dis- ease which came under consideration forms a preparatory step to those of the present order. The hard phlyzacious pustules by which it is distinguished denote a more complete affection of the corial substance than is known to take place in any previous cutaneous inflammation; while the slow, crude, and imperfect solution which they undergo, and the discharge of blood-coloured rather than purulent fluid, indi- cates a variety of the inflammatory process different from those already examined, and approaching to those now to follow. The transition, therefore, if not insensible, is at least natural, to a tribe of diseases of which the general character is inflammation of the corion, which modified in various ways gives rise to the varieties of disease referred to this kind. The principal modifying circumstances maybe referred either to duration, to circumscription, or to difference in kind.