GENERAL ANATOMY. 784 niacal. In general, in this delirium gay and pleasurable ideas predominate. In the most distinct of these cases, to which I have already alluded, the nature of the disease was unequivocally demonstrated, not only by the fluid of the ven- tricles, but by the vascularity of the pia mater and plexus, subarachnoid infiltration, dulness of the arachnoid, and al- buminous exudation from the free surface of that membrane. 2d, In several cases of the disease occurring in infants, with- out proving immediately fatal, I have traced to this cause a degree of idiocy which was supposed to be congenital. Upon inquii'y, it always appeared that the infant had undergone soon after birth an anomalous and little understood disorder, after which, hearing and sight seemed much impaired, and the vivacity of the infantile age was not observed. Inspec- tion at a subsequent period demonstrated the nature of the affection. Symptomatic meningeal inflammation, I have formerly said, takes place in fever continued, intermittent, and remit- tent, after injuries of the head, and occasionally in other dis- eases. From the appearances of a considerable number of cases of the ordinary continued fever of this country, which since the beginning of 1817 I have inspected personally, or have seen inspected, I infer that subacute congestion of the cere- bral membranes is one of the most frequent phenomena of that disease, and one which very often contributes to its fatal termination. I have elsewhere attempted to show, however, that this is not the cause of fever; and though the cause of many of its symptoms, especially the confused thought and incoherent speech, that it is one only of an extensive and general morbid state of the capillary system induced by the action of fever. It may nevertheless occasionally amount to inflammation. Delirium in the Phthisical not an instance of Metastasis. — Subacute meningeal inflammation I have seen take place in the phthisical during the last days or weeks of existence. Upon examining the brains of persons of this description who have had delirium for some time before death, the pia