703 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. marily febrile. This was observed long ago in ague and re- mittent fevers by Baglivi, Sarcone, Roederer, and Wagler, Stoll, Selle, and others, and more recently by Pinel, Brous- sais, Petit, and Serres, Andral, Bretonneau, and Trousseau. In continued fever it has alsobeen seen by Andral, Bretonneau, and Trousseau, and by Cheyne, Reid, O'Brien, and Dr Bright in this country. From the facts collected by these observers it results, that the action of fever has a peculiar tendency to affect the mucous surfaces in general, and especially the tracheo- bronchial and gastro-enteric membranes. In the former it may produce the anatomical characters of unequivocal bronchial in- flammation, proceeding not unfrequently to the first stage of peripneumony. Of the latter it affects more or less intensely different regions. ^In some it affects the gastric, in others the duodenal, in others the ileal, and in a few the colic mucous membrane. In most instances the membrane is reddened and vascular, thickened, and occasionally softened. (Andral.) In many it assumes the form of red or brown patches, with or without ulceration. In many the mucous mem- bi'ane is occupied by white conical elevations half a line or a line high, as broad as a lentil at base, but with depressed sum- mits like the pustules of small pox. These are rare in the je- junum and colon, but are frequent in the two lower fifths of the ileum. (Andral.) In the colon this punctuate inflamma- tion appears in the form of broad conical bodies, elevated, with pointed tops, of a clierry-ied colour, and injection of the surrounding membrane. In a large proportion of cases, ac- cording to Bretonneau and Trousseau, the mucous follicles are enlarged, reddened, softened, and not unfrequently the seat of ulcers. Upon this statement, however, some doubt is thrown by Andral, who maintains, that, though these bo- dies are highly vascular, and pour forth an augmented se- cretion when the mucous membrane is inflamed, yet their affording the commencement of intestinal ulcers is not an invariable circumstance. Though the frequency of ulcera- tion of the lower extremity of the ileum is proportional to the number of follicles, ulceration is exceedingly rare in the duodenum, in which they are more numerous, larger, and