GENERAL ANATOMY. 640 as causing cutaneous inflammation not dissimilar to that of yaws. Like most inflammations depending on the action of a morbid poison, when it affects the constitution it indu- ces inflammation of the corion in the shape of pustules ter- minating in bad ulceration and sloughs,—of furuncular tu- bercles and ulcers,—and of pustular sores affording the rasp- berry granulating fungus. * h. Cutaneous wflammatmis, chronic, affecting at once the surface and the substance of the corion, and attended with ge- neral affection of the fbro-mucous tisstces. Of the disorders which I refer to this head, several are so similar, that they are probably to be viewed as varieties of the same morbid action. Of this kind are the Radesyge, Spedalsked, Liktraa or northern leprosy, the Pellagra or Lombard evil, the Scherlievo of the same place in Italy, the Mai di Rosa of Asturia, and a cutaneous disorder prevalent in Crim Tartary. In whatever points these disorders differ, all of them agree in being preceded by distinct febrile com- motion, in consisting of inflammation affecting the corion in definite points, and in causing at the same time more or less inflammation, punctuate or diffuse, of the mucous and fibro- mucous membranes of the nasal cavities, the throat, the Eustachian tube, and tympanal cavity. In these diseases the affection of the corion is neither pus- tular nor tubercular, but consists in inflammation of its sub- stance occurring in many minute points, and causing first an appearance like papulae, or sometimes only an extensive diffuse redness and roughness of the skin ; then desquama- tion of the cuticle; then pustulo-tubercular or minute hard eminences seldom suppurating completely, but sometimes causing, partly by sloughing, partly by ulceration of the corion, deep foul sores, destroying the corial texture and * Gilchrist in Essays and Observations, Phys. and Lit. Vol. iii. Art. xi. Ed. 1771. Diss. Inaug. de Syphilitide Insontium, &c. Auct. A. Freer. Ed. 1776. Cases in Surgery, &c. by James Hill, surgeon. Ed. 1772. Observations on Morbid Poisons, &c. By Joseph Adams, M. D. London, 1807, Chap. XV. 2d. Ed. 4