735 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. sages; the vagina may open into the rectum, the bladder in the hypogastric region, or communicate directly with the rectum ; or the urethra may open into the perinaeum. The mechanism of malformations of this description is to be ex- plained by the history of the developement of the mucous system during the early months of foetal existence. The re- searches of Wolff, Oken, J. F. Meckel, and Tiedemann, show that a slight interruption given to the process of de- velopement at this period, while the cutaneous and mucous surfaces are in direct continuation upon the mesial plane, is sufficient to continue through life a peculiarity of structure, which belongs only to the embryo during formation. The sacs of the ileum and bladder, called diverticula, appear to de- pend on deficiency of the muscular layer, in consequence of which the mucous corion is protruded through the defective space. (Morgagni; Palletta.) In other instances, deviations from the normal arrange- ment consist in unnatural unions of inucous surfaces, ren- dering the canals which they line impervious, and constitut- ing varieties of imperforations. Thus the pyloric orifice of the stomach has been found closed,* the rectum imperforate, and the vagina imperforate. These, in all probability, are to be ascribed to deficiency of mucous membrane, in con- sequence of which the contiguous parts contract adhesion. In other instances again, malformations are the result of disease. Of this description are the enlarged or distended state of the pulmonic vesicles, produced by several being burst into one large cavity ; the central contraction of the stomach; the sacculated state of the urinary bladder; the di- latations of the alimentary canal, in consequence of the lodge- ment of foreign bodies or concretions; and those of the gall- bladder or gall-ducts, in consequence of the presence of gall-stones. Another variety of the same description of malformation consists in the fistulous openings occasionally effected between the mucous membranes and the cutaneous surface by the process of progressive ulceration. To this head belong the Jistuloe of the stomach, of which so many " Case by Mr Crooks, Edin. Med. Chirur. Transactions, Vol. ii. p. 589.