812 NOTES. paper in the Archives Generales ; but a greater number of positive facts and direct evidence is requisite to determine the point. Note H P. 222. The chemical history of steatomatous and lipomatous tu- mours is imperfectly known. Many years ago Dr Bostock analyzed a stearoid tumour without obtaining any precise re- sult. The effects of the agents employed indicated the pre- sence of neither fat, jelly, nor adipocire; nor was any change accomplished by potass. From its general intract- ability, however, and the effects produced by sulphuric acid, he infers that it is composed chiefly of carbonaceous matter. —Edin. Med. Journal, Vol. ii. p. 14 and 17. Ignorant of these results, I attempted some years ago to examine the chemical nature of the matter contained in a steatomatous cyst. This matter was of a lemon yellow co- lour, not absolutely opaque, yet not translucent, and like fat, for it communicated a stain to paper, and liquefied on exposure to heat. Though it was perfectly soluble in oil of turpentine, I found that no method which I could devise could make it unite with poiassa. From the experiments of Chevreul, it is not improbable that they contain cetine or adipocire. But it must be admitted, that precise infor- mation is still wanting. Note I—P. 229. The direct communication of the lymphatics with the veins, though recently advanced as a new doctrine, was ob- served in 1771 hy John Fred. Meckel. " Non raro mihi in repletione vasorum lymphaticorura mercurii ope occurrit, liquidum hoc penetrabilissimum abs- que extravasatione ex vasis lyraphaticis in venas sanguiferas transiisse. Hinc cavam venara inferiorem, ex injectione in vasa lymphatica, mercurio plenam inveni, nulla interim, ne guttula quidem mercurii per thoracicum ductum, prope in- sertionem suam ligato, in venam cavam superiorem effusa. Viam qua sibi fluidum hoc in venam aperturam ex lympha- tico, ductu fecerat, diu ignorabam. Insertum, in venae por- tarum ramum gastricum, lymphaticum vasculum observave-