MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 681 eil in a state of chronic inflammation during the presence of the foreign body. Bronchial inflammation takes place secondarily in hoop- ing-cough, measles, and even scarlet fever. In measles I have seen the membrane red, injected, villous, and secreting puriform fluid copiously—the usual symptoms of pulmona- ry consumption having preceded the fatal event. In scarlet fever not only the pulmonic but the facial mucous mem- brane is inflamed; and in some severe and fatal cases I have traced the capillary injection along the gastro-enteric divi- sion, and in the genito-urinary from the neck of the bladder to the pelvis of the kidney. This general affection of the mucous system explains the fatality as well as many of the symptoms of scarlet fever. Inflammation of the tracheo- bronchial membrane is an occasional conseqvience of inhaling accidentally certain of the noxious gases. Redness and punctular injection of the tracheo-bronchial membrane, with more or less secretion of viscid mucus, was seen in hydrophobic subjects by Beddoes, Babington, Old- know, Rush, Satterley, Brandreth, and TroUiet, the last of whom labours to prove that the rabid poison affects particu- larly this membrane. Much of this effect is doubtless to be ascribed to the violence of the anormal motions of the re- spiratory muscles ; and it is still undetermined how far the appearances now mentionec? are primary and essential, or secondary and accessary. c. In the gastro-enteric mucous surface inflammation may take place either generally or partially, a. In the oesopha- geal mucous membrane inflammation seldom appears, unless as part of the same process affecting the stomach and bowels more or less generally. This is particularly the case in in- flammation of the gastric mucous membrane, with which a similar state of the oesophageal is almost invariably connect- ed. The surface is red, injected, and more or less villous, and thickened; and the oesophageal epidermis is occasion- ally elevated into apththae or blebs, leaving, when these are removed, an excoriated or abraded surface. In the chronic