GENERAL ANATOMY. 610 is albuminous, at the same time contracts, and forming a co- vering to the corion, while the latter begins to secrete a new cuticle, is at length thrown ofF in the form of opaque patches. These facts show that the new secretion, though discharged fluid, afterwards separates into a serous and an albuminous portion, and is an imperfect or modified coagulable lymph; that both are the product of the inflammatory process ; and that the latter is analogous to that producing albuminous ex- udation from serous membranes. This analogy has not escaped Bichat, who remarks, that vesications do not occur in the latter, solely because they want epidermis. To this head belongs the inflammation of cutaneous whitloe. c. Cutaneous injlammation commencing in circumscribed or dejinile points of the outer surface of the corion, and prO' ducing minute eminences or pimples (papulae,) which disap- pear gradually or terminate in scarf, or minute exfoliations of the cuticle. When cutaneous inflammation appears in the form of in- numerable minute points, which, without spreading or coa- lescing, remain in general distinct, it differs in nature from that which has been already considered as the spreading or diffuse inflammation. The simplest form under which this is observed to occur is that which consists of the minute pointed elevations named pimples (papulce,) which may be described as small conical eminences, surrounded by a red circle, and sometimes attended with superficial redness of the neighbouring skin, but without definite figure. They are slow in progress, do not proceed to suppuration, and after remaining an imcertain time, subside gradually, occasioning a branny or scurfy exfoliation of the scarf-skin with which they are covered. These seem to have been the circumstances which induced Dr Willan to consider pimples as arising from inflamma- tion of the papillce or conical eminences of the corion. I cannot say that personal observation has enabled me to de- termine whether this is at all times truly the case or not; and I therefore will not positively deny the accuracy of the opinion. On this point, however, I remark,—that I have