808 GENERAL ANATOMY. tion. In some joints this process is an immediate effect of in- flammation, the synovial covering being gradually perforated in numerous points at which the subjacent cartilage is ex- posed, and then undergoes erosion. Though this process may occur in any joint, the researches of Mr Brodie show that it is most frequent in the knee, in which the destruction it occasions is often very great. A disease of this kind I have several times seen remove every particle of cartilage from the articulating extremities, and expose the cancellated structure of the bone. This process is attended with extreme pain and suffering to the patient, more particularly aggravated during the night. The same process takes place in the elbow- joint ; but here it often forms fistulous abscesses of the extra- capsular cellular tissue. In the articular processes of the vertebrae, I have seen it often give rise to disease of these bones, and finally terminate in ankylosis, with destruction of the processes and considerable lateral curvature of the spine. Inflammation of the articular synovial sacs affects not only the cartilages and bones, but the ligaments, capsular and funicular. Its transition to these textures, which is easy and direct, induces thickening and induration of the liga- ment, in consequence of effusion of lymph between its fibres and interstices. After some time the action extends to the extra-articular filamentous tissue, which is then injected by jel- ly-like fluid, sometimes colourless or pale red, at other times reddish or brown. At the same time, this filamentous tissue acquires a granular character, and some induration. These several changes, which give rise to swelling round the joint more or less diffuse, constitute one of the most frequent forms of white-swelling. Suppuration may take place, as in the last instance, followed by fistulous openings. In the synovial sheaths of tendons inflammation produces effects not dissimilar. The most marked instances of this process is observed in synovial or thecal whitloe, paronychia thecalis, in which inflammation of the synovial membrane, I have elsewhere shown, from the anatomical peculiarities of these sacs, not only causes death of the contained tendon, but, by passing to the periosteum, may induce caries of the