638 GENERAL ANATOMY. It cannot be doubted that the appearance of yaws is in- variably preceded by more or less indisposition—as languor, pains of the limbs like those of rheumatism, chillness or shivering succeeded by general heat and uneasiness, amount- ing in most cases to fever, and always more severe and dis- tinct in children than in adults. The first trace of eruption is a white mealy scurf covering the whole cutaneous surface. A few days after small firm pimples may be seen on the forehead, face, neck, groin, and round the anus. These in- crease for six or ten days, when their tops are covered by a crust; and an opaque whitish fluid, which is ill formed mat- ter, may be recognized. Thus converted into pustules, they gradually enlarge still covered by crusts, which are loose and irregular, until they attain the size of a sixpence or even of a shilling,—the largest being in general those which appeared first. If in this state the crust be removed, it exposes a foul sloughy sore, or, according to Adams, a rough whitish surface consisting partly of slough, partly of living animal matter. The pustules may also burst sponta- neously, and discharge thick viscid matter, which hardens into a foul crust or scab on the surface. In the large pus- tules from this surface at length shoots up a red granulated excrescence composed of minute lobes, not unlike a wild rasp or mulberry, which is the proper yaw, and gives the disease its peculiar appearance and character. Its size varies according to that of the pustule from which it rises, from a pea to that of a mulberry of considerable dimensions. Its colour also varies according to that of the general health of the subject. In the healthy and robust it is red like a piece of flesh and pro- minent ; in the weakly and puny it is pale and white like a piece of cauliflower, not elevated, and bleeds on the slightest touch. The yaw-fungus has little sensibility, and does not smart when capsicum-juice is applied, never suppurates per- fectly, but discharges a sordid glutinous fluid, which dries into a scab round the edges of the excrescence and covers its up- per part, if much elevated, with white sloughs. This glutinous fluid is the proper yawey matter, and communicates the dis- ease by inoculation.