GENERAL ANATOMY. 782 peritonaeal inflammation ; but it also tends to induce thick- ening of the peritonaeum, secretion of matter termed scrofu- lous, (albuminous ? tyromalous ?) and finally ulceration of the peritonaeum. In consequence of this ulceration, the mu- cous and peritonaeal surfaces of the bowel communicate di- rectly, so that instead of forming a continuous canal, as in the normal condition, they constitute a mass of tubes com- municating freely with each other, and with thickened and ulcerated peritonaeum, by numerous openings. From the early symptoms combined with these changes, Dr Gregory considers this disorder as primarily commencing in the peri-' tonaeura. * With this view I am disposed to agree; but must observe, that not only the symptoms, but even the ap- pearances of peritonaeal inflammation may be explained, by supposing the ulcerative process to originate in the mucous membrane, and proceed to the peritonaeal, in which the ef- fusion of the contents of the tube necessarily produce inflam- matory exudation. For a case illustrating this mode of pro- gress, I refer to Howship, p. 264'. Meningitis and Arachnilis.—These two affections are ge- nerally combined,—in other words, inflammation of the fia mater is generally accompanied with that of the arachnoid membrane. It assumes acute, subacute, and chronic forms. The acute and subacute forms constitute the disease de- scribed by practical authors under the name of water of the head, water of the brain, hydrocephalus, and hydrencephalus. This infierence, which was originally advanced by Quin, and adopted by Rush and Garnet, was first verified by Cheyne, and has been since amply confirmed by the inspec- tions of Golis, the inquiries of Dr Blackall, of Dr Ayre, Dr Abercrombie, the dissections and researches of Parent-Du- chatelet. Martinet, and Senfi". The proofs collected by these authors, it is unnecessary, after the general remarks already submitted, to detail. From the account also of the distribu- tion of the proper cerebral membrane, it is easy to explain the necroscopic phenomena of hydrocephalic brains. The " Observations on the scrofulous inflammation of the Peritonaeum, &c. MecL-Chir. Transact. Vol. xi, p. 258.