MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 707 penis, suppression of urine, sometimes priapism, and con- stitutional disturbance proceeding at once from local irrita- tion, and the disti-ess occasioned by difficulty of voiding the urine, or by its total suppression. This form of urethral in- flammation should be distinguished from stricture, with which it is too often confounded. Instead of spreading along the membrane, it has a tendency to pass to the sub- mucous tissue, and thicken it. It is probable that it may occur in any part of the canal; but its most ordinary site is the membranous portion. If properly treated, it terminates in resolution with a gleety discharge, in effusion of lymph or suppuration, not unfrequently with fistulous openings. Urethria puriformis ; Gonorrhoea ; Medorrhcea.—That the fluid of gonorrhoea is of inflammatory origin is proved by the swelling of the urethral orifice, the pain and tenderness of the canal, and the sore or scalding sensation (ardor urince) occasioned by the transit of the urine over it. At an early period of the art, when pathological knowledge was defec- tive or erroneous, this discharge from the urethra was believed to consist of seminal fluid, and to issue from the organs by which that fluid is secreted. Afterwards, when medical practitioners understood the nature of the discharge as dis- tinct from seminal fluid, it was believed to be purulent mat- ter issuing from ulcers in the canal. This opinion, which indeed was more rational, was nevertheless completely dis- proved, first by Morgagni, * and afterwards by John Hun- ter, f who showed by dissection of persons whose death had occurred while they were labouring under urethral dis- charge, that though minute ulcers may occasionally be found in the canal, they are totally unconnected with the discharge, which in the greater number of cases is secreted by the ure- thral membrane in a state of inflammation. According to the most accurate observations several regions of the urethral mucous membrane may without ulceration or erosion furnish puriform secretion. " Adversaria Anatom. Epistola xliv. 1,2. t Treatise on the Venereal Disease, Part ii. Chap. i.