798 GENERAL ANATOMY. Tubercles or tyromatous depositions in the tubercular form are often found in the pia mater, and especially its ce- rebral prolongations. They occur not only in the exterior division of the membrane, but in that which penetrates the ventricles; and from this circumstance it often happens that tyromatous bodies, which are found in the cerebral sub- stance, have originated in the membranes. Thus of the figures given by Baillie in the 7th pi. of his 10th fasciculus, two tubercular bodies are found actually attached to the choroid plexus; one found in the lower part of the fourth ventricle; and that represented by Dr Hooper in the same situation (12th pi.) appears to have had the same origin ; * and those said to be found in the brain were very probably originally formed at the filamentous surface of the pia mater, between which and the bodies, in most instances, vascular connections are distinct and immediate. The cenchroid tubercles are very frequent in serous tis- sue. In the pleura they were seen by Wrisberg, Baillie, Bayle, Laennec, and Andral; in the peritonaeum by Scou- tetten. These miliary or cartilaginous tubercles are not unfre- quently fcund to occupy all the serous membranes at once, more especially in the bodies of the lower animals. Thus I have often seen them in the pleura, pericardium, and peri- tonaeum in the sheep ; and in a specimen of the Paca dissect- ed by my friend Dr Grant, every serous membrane was thickly set with them. They occur chiefly in men and ani- mals long excluded from air and exercise. In the early stage they do not exercise much influence on the state of these membranes. But at a more advanced period they cause inordinate exhalation, opacity, dulness, and other marks of morbid circulation of the tissue. The opinion of Laennec, that mihary tubercles are the incipient form of the tyromatous tubercle, is in reference to the serous membranes destitute of proof. The miliary eminences of these mem- branes have not yet been shown to pass into the tyromatous. 7. Chondroma.—Cartilagino%is degeneratmi is not uncommon in the serous tissue. It appears in the form of patches vary-