SEROUS membrane; 767 It was at one time believed that genuine purulent matter could not be formed in these membranes^ unless as an effect of the preliminary process of ulceration. Instances of puru- lent collections in the chest without ulceration of the pleura^ and of purulent matter in the abdomen without breach in the peritonaeum, might have led pathological writers to the inference, that suppuration may occur in a serous membrane without ulceration, and that seci'etion of purulent matter is one of the effects of simple inflammation of serous tissue. The truth of this fact, however, appears not to have been established before the time of William and John Hunter, the last of whom notices it as a point not previously ascei'- tained. Speaking of the transition or gradual change from coagulable lymph to purulent fluid, he infers " that suppu- ration takes place in serous siu-faces without a breach of so- lids or dissolution of parts," mentions it as a circumstance " not commonly allowed," and considers this suppuration as the effect of a more advanced stage of the process than that which gives rise to effusion of lymph, and union by ad- hesion. Of this fact, he informs us, he first became aware in 1749 and 1750, when, in the inspection of a young sub- ject, the left side of the chest was found to contain a con- siderable quantity of purulent matter without breach of the pleura or surface of the lungs; and, at the same time, it was regarded by Dr Hunter and Mr Samuel Shai-pe as a new fact. * It has since been often observed both in the pleiu'a and peritonaeum ; and as such is mentioned by William Hun- ter, f Baillie, Black, and Willan. * Treatise on Inflammation, &c. p. 379. Note. t " Another kind of pus is that which is formed without any apparent breach or dissolution of the solids, and therefore is only a sort of inspissated serum, or an inflammatory exudation. We occasionally meet with collec- tions of this kind in all the natural internal cavities of the body. I have seen it in great quantity in the cavity of the abdomen or of the peritonceum, in that of the thorax or of the pleura, and in the pericardium, where there was no visible suppuration, ulceration, or dissolution of the solids, or any part of the surface all round. This kind of pus is generally thinner than that of an abscess; and the containing surface is more or less covered with