780 GENERAL ANATOMY. issue of a large quantity of fluid. This opening is effected first by distension, the pressure of the matter separating the recti, and enlarging the umbilical aperture afterwards by laceration, while the peritonaeum detached from the sup- porting tissues, and sustained only by the skin, at length gives way, and forms an opening. Examples of this are re- corded by Hulme, * Leake, + Denman, J Mr John Burns, § Gordon, || Ai-mstrong, ^ and Hey.** Gordon and Denman mention cases in which matter was discharged by the ure- thra with favourable issue. The fluid of ascites in females has a peculiar exit, by which not unfrequently it escapes, the Fallopian tubes. Puerperal Perilonitis.—That the disease termed puerperal fever consists in perltonaeal inflammation of one or other of the forms above-mentioned, is established by the observation of the best authors, and by daily experience. In every case in which the symptoms of the disease appear during life, we find in the peritonaeum more or fewer of the marks of the inflammatory process above described. This variety of pe- ritoneal inflammation,nevertheless, is peculiar in commencing almost invariably in some part of the peritonaeum investing the organs of reproduction. Thus the first, the most abun- dant, and the most invariable traces of inflammatory action, are found either in the uterine, or the ovarian peritonaeum, or in that of the Fallopian tubes, especially at their fimbria- ted extremities, or all three at once. The most usual ap- pearances which I have remarked in a large proportion of cases, are opaque, dull, and lustreless aspect of the uterine and ovarian peritonaeum ; blood-spots or vascular injection, especially of the ovarian peritonaeum ; albuminous exuda- tion of the uterine and ovarian peritonaeum, often aggluti- nating the latter to that of the oviferous tubes; and sero- purulent or purulent fluid, with albuminous shreds, in the hypogastric, iliac, and occasionally the lumhax fossce, and " On the Puerperal Fever. t On Child-bed Fever. X Introduction, &c. Fever. $ Elements, &c. II Treatise on the Epidemic Puerperal Fever, 5th and 6th Cases. 1 Facts and Observations, p. 158. ** On Puerperal Fever.