GENERAL ANATOMY. 614 surface of the corion, circumscribed, dejinite, or punctuate, producing effusion of fluid, first pellucid, afterwards slightly opaque, tvith elevation of cuticle, with or withoutfurther affec- tion of the corial tissue. Inflammation may be developed in many minute points of the corion simultaneously, and, continuing limited to these points without spreading, may terminate in each in the for- mation of a pellucid fluid, afterwards becoming more or less opaque. These may either be confined to the outer sur- face of the corion, without affecting its substance, or, begin- ning originally at the surface, may thence affect its substance. The individual points appear first like a common rash, with general redness of the skin, sometimes like pimples or mi- nute elevations, with a good deal of redness surrounding them. After some hours, a white pearly point appears at their summits, while the suiTounding redness diminishes in breadth, so as to form a mere circle or hoop (areola,) which, if minutely examined, is found to consist of a zone of vessels, circumscribing the inflammatory process, and forming in their centre the fluid which gives the elevation the white appear- ance. After 12, 20, or 30 hours more, according to circum- stances, the white pearly appearance extends, assumes a tint of yellow, and is depressed on the summit, indicating the advancement of the process of circumscribed inflammation. In the course of two or three days, there is detached a thin crust or scab, which consists of the cuticle of the part with the dried fluid adhering to it. Minute elevations of this de- scription have been termed vesicles (vesiculce), and the con- tained fluid lymph by Dr Willan. The fluid thus distin- guished is not the same as the coagulable lymph of J. Hun- ter, It is nevertheless sero-albuminous, and appears to be quite similar to that which is secreted in the first stage of suppuration. The process by which it is secreted is confined to the vascular surface of the corion, and is not attended by ulceration of that surface in millet rash, shingles (herpes), and the red-fret or mercurial eruption (eczema.) In chick-