MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 673 2d, in the windpipe or proper tracheal membrane; Zd, in the bronchial or pulmonic membrane. Though these in- flammations possess certain common characters, each is at- tended by peculiarities which require attention. «. Laryngia, Laryngitis. Cynanche Laryngea—Though this disease appears not to liavc been unknown to CuUen and some previous authors, we are indebted to Dr Baillie, Dr Farre, Dr Percival, Mr Lawrence, and Mr Howship, for a more ac- curate account of its pathology than we previously possessed. It may be stated as a well established fact, that the symptoms of this disease arise from inflammation circumscribed to a de- finite region of the larynx. Though the whole laryngeal mem- brane, from the epiglottis to the tracheal rings, is red and swel- led, the particular point at which this morbid action is most injurious is that part of the mucous membrane which covers the arytenoid cartilages, and forms the chink called glottis. Though this part of the laryngeal membrane may not be more swelled than any other, a moderate degree of swelling soon diminishes the aperture so much that inspiration is rendered difficult or impossible, and the danger of suffocation becomes urgent. It must nevertheless be observed, that in many in- stances the margins of the glottis are occupied by an oede- matous or puffy swelling, similar to that which occasionally affects the eyelids, prepuce, and female labia,—from sero- albuminous infiltration of the submucous filamentous tissue, and the effect of which is to diminish, or in some instances to obliterate, the aperture which regulates the admission of air into the trachea. The redness and swelling of the laryn- geal membrane is occasionally more conspicuous at its poste- rior part than elsewhere; and the epiglottis is sometimes swelled and thickened with injection of its membrane; but whatever variations the disease presents, its effect on the membrane of the glottis is uniform; and this aperture is either much contracted or completely obliterated. With redness and swelling, the laryngeal membrane is generally occupied by thick viscid mucus, which contri- butes by adhering to the margins of the glottis to obstruct u u