774 GENERAL ANATOMY. Baillie, * and Parry, f nor had escaped the observation of Pemberton. J Its reality, however, was first investigated and formally maintained by Gi-apengiesser of Gottingen, § by Rush of Pliiladelphia, || and has recently been the sub- ject of much research and inquiry by Wells, ^ Blackall, ** Crampton, tt and Ayre. The results of the inquiries thus instituted may be stated in the following manner. Though accunfiulation of fluid in the cavities of serous membranes depends on increased exhalation from the vessels of these membranes, that exhalation is not to be regarded merely as an increased form of the natural action, but is a process of morbid secretion, depending on a state of the blood-vessels, either identical with, or analogous to inflam- mation. The vessels of the membranes are numerous, en- larged, and in general injected. When they are not so, the stage of injection has passed, and been succeeded by that of exhalation. The presence of albuminous flakes in the effused fluid furnishes proofs of the same description. The mem- branes are more or less opaque, and dull, and covered by shreds and patches of lymph in various spots ; and fluid is effused into the subserous tissue. Thus, in several instances of dropsical infiltration, with effusion into the cavity of the pleura, I have found that membrane not only vascular, but coloured of a red-brown tint, opaque, void of its glistening ed, during the usual species of childbed fever. This is to be considered as tlie substituting a less dangerous disease for another. Peritoneal inflamma- tion kills often in three days; but acute may last twenty years."—Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels. • Morbid Anatomy, p. 5?. 4th Edit. Lond. 1812. ■f Collections from the unpublished Medical writings, &c. p. 205, 20?, 208. $ Abdominal Viscera, p. 12. " Sometimes a resolution of the inflam- mation takes place from the throwing out of a fluid, when ascites is produced." § De Hydrope. II Medical Inquiries and Observations. By B. Rush, M. D. Philad. 1805. Vol. ii. p. 159. % Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 167, 183, and 194. ** Observations on the Nature and Cure of Dropsies. tt Clinical Report on Dropsies. Transactions of Association, Vol. ii. 3