7S4 GENERAL ANATOMY. discharged with the urine and other fluids. Its surface, which is of a bright flesh colour, is covered by a thin delicate membrane, from which oozes abundantly a sei'o-albuminous fluid, which mats the linen like starch, and occasionally blood flows copiously. In married women who have had children its growth is rapid; in those not exposed to sexual intercourse it is slow. The attempts made to inject this growth have been unsuccessful. The injection escapes from its surface rapidly; and it shrinks so much after death, that it is impossible to recognize any thing but a small loose floc- culent membranous prolongation of the part to which it is attached. These circumstances, with its hemori-hagic cha- racter, lead Mr Clarke to regard it as an assemblage of mi- nute arteries similar to the placental structure. It is proba- bly a variety of erectile tissue. * 13. Displacements.—The mucous membranes, partly in con- sequence of their loose connection in many instances with sub- jacent tissues, partly in consequence of inordinate action in the muscular fibres of their proper organs, sometimes in consequence of inflammation, are liable to various unnatural changes of situation. Thus the eyelids are liable to eversion, the rectum, the vagina, and the uterus to prolapsus, the uterus to inversion, the intestinal canal to invagination and hernial protrusion. 14. Lastly, Malformations are frequently observed in the mucous system; but it is often difficult to distinguish between those which are proper, and those which are common to it with collateral and subjacent tissues. Occasionally, for in- stance, parts of the mucous system in common with the other constituent tissues of an organ are wanting. Thus part of the alimentaiy canal may be deficient, and the uri- nary bladder or the rectum has been known to be wanting. In other instances, part of the mucous tissue of one organ may be so incomplete, that a direct communication with an- other is established. Thus the velum may be fissured, and the palate may communicate directly with the nasal pas- • Observations on those Diseases of Females, &c. Part ii.