788 GENERAL ANATOMY. patient dropped down lifeless in a moment much blood was extravasated between the cerebral membranes.* The cases dissected by Dr Marshall about the same time, but published some years after, furnish similar results. Of 22 cases of insane persons whose brains were inspected by this anatomist, in 21 serous fluid, varying in amount from 1, 2, or 4, to 12 ounces, was found in the cerebral cavities; and in 17 of these 21 cases similar effusion was found in the subarachnoid tissue occasionally to the extent of elevating the arachnoid membrane in minute vesicles or cysts, (cases 6, 8, 9, 18, 22.) Though the pia mater is said to have been injected in four cases only, and the arachnoid to have been opaque in two, it results from the fluid effused into the ven- tricles or between the membranes, from the vascularity of the substance of the brain, and from the facility with which the jiia mater was detached from the convoluted surface, that the capillaries of the latter membrane were in a morbid state.t It is further to be remarked, that in nine of these cases were the arteries of the brain opaque, thickened, steatomatous, or ossified,—a condition highly favourable for deranging the ca- pillary circulation of the membranes or the inclosed organ. These results are important in enumerating the most uni- form morbid appearances found in the cerebral membranes of the maniacal. Their chief value, however, consists in the verification which they have since received from the resear- ches of Neumann of Berlin, and Bayle and Calmeil of Paris. From the inquiries of the second of these authors especially, it appears almost established that a state of chronic inflam- mation of the cerebral membranes is invariably the cause of insanity. My limits do not permit me to detail the whole of the proofs in which this inference is founded ; nor is it ne- cessary, after collating the dissections of Greding, Chiarugi, Haslam, and Marshall. A short statement of the principal • Observations on Madness and Melancholy, &c, by John Haslam, 2d edition. London, 1809. f The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain in Mania and Hydrophobia, &c. &c, collected from the Papers of the late Andrew Marshall, M. D. 1815.