725 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. who found the mucous coat thickened and indurated like cartilage, and the cavity much contracted. It is at the same time generally sacculated. Another form of inflammatory thickening causing dimi- nished area of mucous canals is that which takes place in chronic enlargement of the mucous glands. The best ex- ample of this is observed in the enlargement of the mucous follicles of the cardia, which is no uncommon cause of stricture of the cardiac orifice of the oesophagus. This in- flammation is very difficult of resolution, and too often ter- minates in ulceration of the membrane and the glands. 4. Adhesion.—It was asserted by Bichat and others that mu- cous membrane does not effiise lymph or contract adhesions. The accuracy of this conclusion, which evidently arose from opinions too generalized on the properties of this tissue, the nature of lymph, and the final causes or rather purposes of morbid action, is questionable; and the inference requires li- mitation. Independent of the well known experiment of John Hunter, who, by the use of a very irritating injection, produced a secretion of coagulable lymph in the vagina of an ass;—I have already shown that each of the mucous sur- faces, under certain states and forms of inflammatory action, may effuse a fluid containing a large proportion of albumen, and which, neither in chemical properties nor pathological relations, can be distinguished from the albuminous exuda- tion of serous membranes. The question of adhesion, how- ever, depends not so much upon the fact of albuminous exu- dation as upon the anatomical disposition of the cavity or ca- nal, whether it be sufficiently small to favour the mutual ap- proximation of opposite and corresponding surfaces. Thus in the gastro-intestinal membrane, which is in general capa- cious and distended, either incessantly or frequently with fo- reign bodies, mutual approximation is too imperfect to ad- mit of adhesion. Yet by some observers this is asserted to have happened. In situations, on the contrary, in which mucous surfaces line narrow tubes, as the lacrymal duct, the Eustachian tube, the urethra, and perhaps the Fallopian tubes, obliteration of the canal by adhesion of its sides i.s