SEROUS MEMBRANE. 789 morbid changes recognized by M. Bayle will be sufficient to show how far the inference is justified by facts. 1*^, The most constant anatomical character of this state of the cerebral membi'anes is injection, more or less intense and extensive, of the cellular vascular web of the pia mater. The vessels are loaded; the membrane is red or scarlet; and blood trickles from all parts on removing it from the brain. In other instances, its interstices are distended with serous fluid, which gives it a pale gray colour, and increases its vo- lume and thickness. The arachnoid is reddish scarcely once in 16 or 20 cases. 2d, The arachnoid becomes opaque and thickened, espe- cially in the convex centre of the hemispheres, at their me- sial margin, and on their mutual surface. This thickness, which may be so great as to approach that of the pleura, the ])ericardium, the dura inater, or macerated parchment, M. Bayle ascribes not to albuminous deposition on its surface, but to developement of vessels, and extravasation of matter in its substance. Sd, The meningeal injection very generally terminates in serous effusion, either from the free surface of the arachnoid membrane into the subarachnoid tissue, or from the arach- noid of the choroid plexus, constituting effusion into the ventricles. Aith, Albuminous exudation occurred in ^th of the subjects at the free surface of the arachnoid of the dtira mater, cover- ing its whole exteiit, confined to the convexity of one or both hemispheres, to the falx, or to the occipital region,—ap- plied, but not adhering to the cerebral arachnoid. 5th, Adhesions of the two surfaces of the arachnoid oc- curred not more than 8 or 10 times in 100 instances. They are most common in the great fissure, and once or twice were observed in the ventricles. In one case, in which the disease was complicated, M. Bayle found the two folds of the arachnoid intimately united by the interposition of an albuminous patch. 6th, The membranes adhered to the convoluted surface with unusual firmness, so as to carry portions of brain in