SKIN. 641 the bulbs of the hair. This is partieulai'ly the case in the RadesygBj the form of disorder prevalent in Iceland, the Scandinavian peninsula, the P'eroe Islands, and the penin- sula of Jutland. In those prevalent in Italy, Asturia, and Crim Tartary, ulceration of the corion appears to be less frequent. The limits of this treatise do not permit me to enter at large into the history of these diseases, which perhaps are not to be viewed as merely cutaneous affections; and I shall simply refer to the best sources for further information.* To this head also may be referred some of the cutaneous eruptions which occur either among the secondary symp- toms of syphilis, or in the persons of those who, for this dis- ease, have been subjected to one or more courses of mercu- rial medicines. Though these eruptions may appear some- times in the form of papulce, sometimes as a variety of rupia, and sometimes as ecthyma, they are also not unfrequently of the chronic pustulo-tubercular nature, originally taking- place in the corion, and causing more or less ulceration of that membrane. Their connection with inflammation of the mucous and fibro-mucous membranes is well known. Upon elephantiasis so much accurate information has been of late years collected by Dr Adams, Mr Lawrence, and Dr Lee, that little difficulty can be experienced in settling its " For Radesyge, Dissert. Inaug. de morbo cutaneo luem veneream conse- cutivam simulante, auctore C. F. Ahlander, Upsaliae, 1806. Diss. Inaug, sistens obs. in exanthema arct. vulgo Radesyge, auctore Isaaco Vouglit. Gryphcce, 1811. Geographische Nosologie von Fried. Schnurrer, M. D. p. 440. Morbus quem Radesyge vocani, &c. Comraentatio Auctore Fred. Hoist, M. D. ChristianicE, 1817. Ueber die Aussatzartige Krankheit Holsteins, &c. Von Ludwig Aug. Struve, M. D. 1820 For Pellagra, S. Const. Tilii crat. de Pellagras Pathologia, Viteberg, 1792. De Pellagra Obs. quas collegit Caiet. Strambio, 1784-89, Mediol. Franc. FrapoUi Me- diol. Animadveis. in Morbum vulgo Pellagra, Med. 1771. N. X. Jansen de Pellagra, Lug. 1787. Frank Delect. Tom ix. p. 325. Holland in Me- dico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. vii.—For Mai de Rosa, Thiery Obser- vations de Physique et Medecine, Tom. ii. Chap. vi.—For Scherlievo, An- nali Universal! de Medecina.—For Crim Tartary disease, the Travels of Falk, Gueldenstadt, and Pallas. S S