687 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. The reason of this I conceive to be, that death is effected by the severity of the general operation of the agent before there is time for ulceration. The further examination of this point, however, belongs to toxicology. In many cases of canine madness the oesophageal and gas- tric membrane has been found reddened and covered with vis- cid mucus ; (Morgagni, Baillie, Babington, Ferriar, Marcet, Po wel, Pinkard, &c. ) and several authors have here been in- clined to ascribe the symptoms of that disease to oesophageal and gastric inflammation. Admitting, however, that appear- ances of this kind are sufficient to constitute spreading or dif- fuse inflammation of the mucous surface, it does not follow that this is the cause of the hydrophobic symptoms. The oeso- phageal and gastric redness is not constant; and its presence and degree, which are secondary, depend rather on the vio- lent spasmodic motions of the muscles of deglutition and the diaphragm, than on positive or primary inflammation. The affection of the gastric mucous membraiie occurring in fever, as remarked by Roederer, and Wagler, Sarcone, Pinel, and others, shall be noticed afterwards. y. Enleria.—Inflammation of the iliac mucous membrane is greatly more frequent than it has been represented by au- thors. Whatever be the influence of authority to the contra- ry, it may be shown that the frequent fluid alvine discharges, to which physicians give the name of diarrhoea, are in the greater number of cases to be referred to inflammation of the mucous surface of the intestines, spreading over a considera- ble extent, and rarely penetrating to the submucous filamen- tous tissue. Though it was originally maintained by Glisson on the evidence of dissection, that in diarrhoea the intestinal mucous membrane is inflamed, and a similar idea was entertained by Baglivi and other Italian physicians, the facts on which this opinion rests appear to have been overlooked amidst the zeal and ingenuity with which the hypothesis of inordinate motion {motus abnormis') of the school of Hoffmann and CuUen was defended. Next to the instance recorded by Morgagni in