GENERAL ANATOMY. 778 thrust the heart to the sternum, and eventually into the side of the chesty, in which its pulsations are then felt. * This change I have witnessed twice in chronic pleurisy. Chronic peritonseal inflammation is distinguished by three circumstances:—1*^, Purulent or sero-purulent fluid may be secreted in one or more distinct sacs, formed by the union and secretion of eifused lymph. This, which was early no- ticed by Morgagni, (Epist. xxxiv. 221,) is verified by J. Hunter,t and more recently by Baillie, Black,:}: Mr Cooke, and others. 2<Z, Purulent fluid may be secreted by the whole inflamed membrane without breach of surface. This proposition I should scarcely have thought requisite, after what has been said above, to state formally, did not the valuable remark of John Hunter, that " the cavity of the abdomen acquires all the properties of an abscess," appear to be forgotten by Dr Black of Newry, who, in recording a case in which the " abdomen contained more than two quarts of thin purulent fluid of a turbid appearance," seems to think it extraordi- nary that the matter was secreted by inflamed surfaces. In other respects the case is a good confirmation of the general principle now stated. I may add, that in several cases of peritonitis lasting for several weeks, which have come under my own observation, I have seen many folds of small intes- tine connected by lymphy exudation, and a considerable quantity of genuine purulent fluid bathing the adhering masses, and filling the hollows of the lumbar, iliac, and hy- pogastric regions. The omentum is sometimes glued down at its corners to a fold of ileum ; in other instances it is drawn up and shrivelled into a roundish or cylindrical mass. * Morgagni, Epist. xx. 6. Barry, p. 405, 40C. Abercrombie, in Med. Chir. Transactions. t " Inflammation attacks the external coat of an intestine. The first stage of this inflammation produces adhesions between it and the peritonceum lining the abdominal muscles. If the inflammation does not stop at this stage, an abscess is formed in the middle of these adhesions."—Treatise on the Blood. t Clinical and Pathological Reports, p. 133, 170.