MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 723 croft, Jacksoiij and many other authors. In all cases in which subjects dead of these diseases^ under these symptoms, have been inspected, the same kind of coffee-ground matter has been found in the stomach and intestines, but without breach of the mucous surface. The matter, however, has been traced almost in its formation, in the circumstance of dark blood oozing insensibly from the capillaries of the mu- cous membrane. Its colour is necessarily rendered more in- tense by the fluids of the gastro-enteric surface. This pecu- liar exudation may be regarded as the result of disorganiza- tion of the mucous capillai-ies, in consequence of previous congestion during the febrile action. Not confined, however, to the gastro-enteric mucous surface, it occurs in the tracheo- bronchial and genito-urinary. It is observed also occasion- ally in other tissues from the same cause. In short, febrile action either consists in, or is the cause of, capillary disorga- nization in most of the textures. The process of hemorrhagic injection, like that of inflam- mation, may terminate in suppuration, with or without breach of surface, in induration, and thickening, dependent on chronic inflammation. 3. Injlammatory Stricture.—To thickening as an effect of the inflammatory process, I have already had frequent occasion to allude. This takes place to a small extent in the mucous corion, and to a much greater degree in the submucous fila- mentous tissue, in which it depends partly on the increased number of vessels, partly on the effusion of lymph, which causes the mutual cohesion of its component filaments. When this is considerable, and takes place in a membrane lining a canal, it contracts its capacity, and forms what is named stricture; CconstrictioJ ; (arctaiio). Though this may occur in any part of the raucous system, it is most com- mon in the lacrymal canal, the Eustachian tube, the oeso- phagus, near its upper or lower extremity, the rectum or lower part of the colon, and in the male urethra. The con- striction, in such circumstances, depends not unfrequently on the presence of some remaining degree of inflammation ; and if this subside, the constriction may also partially dimi-