MUCOUS MEMBRANE. a permanent cause of irritation. It is hence common in persons whose health is impaired, or who are advanced in life. The cys- tic membrane becomes not only reddish but brown, villous, floc- culent, and considerably thickened. In some instances it be- comes granular and unusually hard. This change was repeat- edly seen by Hoffmann, Morgagni,* Lieutaud, Portal, and others ; and it is important to remark, that it never continues long without causing inordinate thickening of the muscular layer, and occasionally irregular contraction of its constituent fibres, so as to form sacculi, or cavities on the organ. In most instances it secretes puriform mucus, (Hoffmann, Chopart,) but without destruction of the mucous membrane. The former author relates an instance in which the usual effects took place, while upon inspection the cystic tissues were found thickened and condensed, and the vessels of the mu- cous membrane large, numerous, and loaded, yet without trace of ulceration. This disorder is said to have been (he cause of death to Voltaire, Buffon, D'Alembert, and Spallanza- ni.t On the other hand, the mucous membrane may be en- tirely removed as in the acute form, by a process of ulceration or sloughing. In the case of Professor Barthez of Montpel- lier, recorded by M. Double, % the cavity of the organ, which contained a mulberry calculus nine lines in diameter, was diminished and filled with purulent matter; its walls were black and sphacelated; of mucous membrane not a trace was left; and the muscular coat was thickened. ยง From a simi- lar action results the villous, fungating, and granular state of the bladder observed by Ruysch, Walter, Baillie, and others. || The effects of this process is to alter considerably the or- dinary secretion of the cystic mucous membrane. The cystic mucus in the healthy state is a thin fluid, easily miscible with the urine, and so trifling in quantity, at least in the * Epist xlii. -f- Brera Storia della Malattia di P. Spallanzani. f Hist. Anatom. Med. Obs. 1224, 12CC, 1270, 1272, 1274. ยง Journal General de Meelecine. Nov. 1800. II F. A. Widter, Einige Krankheiten der Nieren und Harnblase untersucht u. s. w. Berlin, 1800. P. 31.