468 GENERAL ANATOMY. sation, intellect, or motion, he suffered severe tearing pain in the whole right side of the head, and slight convulsive motions of the face followed after eight days by palsy of the lower limbs, and soon after by coma, which continued in a greater or less degree for a few days, when he died. In the centre of the right hemisphere, outside of the optic tha- lamus and corpus striatimt, the space of four finger-breadths long, and two or three wide, was a reddish-gray, knotty, rough, unequal surface, which when cut resisted like the scirrhous masses of the stomach or liver. In the resisting points was a substance of areolar texture, bluish-white co- lour, semitransparent, very hard, presenting here and there minute cavities containing a fluid like apple-jelly, scirrhus proceeding from the crude to the softening stage. In other points was a firm texture of dirty white colour, traversed by reddish lines crossing in various directions (supposed to be encephaloid texture in the crude stage.) In other points was seen a reddish purple, which appears to have been simply softened brain. Bouillaudj Traite Clinique et Physiologique de I'Encepha- lite. 1825—A lady of 77, with convulsive motions of the left arm, followed by palsy of that and of the left leg, impaired speech, complete hemiplegy, and death by exhaustion, with- out loss of consciousness, a firm, yellowish, lardaceous, bulky, many-lobed mass, occupying the greater part of the posterior lobe, almost the whole of the middle lobe and part of the anterior lobe of the right hemisphere. Contiguous to the optic thalamus, which was entirely softened, a lobule penetrated below the striated body, and reached the exterior of the middle lobe, where it was connected with the mem- branes and the bone. Softening all round.* * This case is stated to be ah-eady published in the work of M. Rostan. This, however, appears to be a mistake. The only example of cancer in the brain recorded in that work is the case above mentioned of Marie Gerard. With this it evidently does not correspond, either in age or in 4