SKIN. 631 tive difference of pi'ogress of the common boil, which is ra- pid, and that of the whelk [acneJ, canker (lupusJ, and yaws (frambcesia), which are slow and tedious. 2. The in- fluence of circumscription or diffusion is evinced in those in- flammations which are confined to a spot, and those which spread to some extent. In the whelk and boil the inflam- matory process is restricted to a point; in carbuncle, on the other hand, it affects a great extent of the corion through its entire thickness. 3. Whether the inflammation of the corial substance be different in one disease from what it is in ano- ther, there are few means of ascertaining. Though various facts seem to indicate something of this nature, too little is known to justify positive conclusions. The boil or bile (Die Beule ; Furunculus ; le Clou ; il Cic- cione ;) may be adduced as an instance of acute inflammation of the corion confined to a certain spot. Pearson admits that its seat is the skin ; but, by afterwards saying that it may occur in any part which abounds in cellular membrane, leaves the alternative either that skin contains this substance abun- dantly, or that boils may occur in many other tissues. Boy- er, by placing its seat in the cellular tissue, confounds it with phlegmon. The opinion of Bichat differs from either, but partakes of both. This anatomist represents the corion to be penetrated by a great quantity of cellular tissue, which fills its areolce, and is the exclusive and proper seat of the boil. The truth of this opinion depends on the idea attached to the term cellular tissue. If by this be meant the loose fatty mat- ter with its intersecting threads, on which the inner surface of the corion rests, the opinion is erroneous; for this is the proper subcutaneous cellular tissue. To this doubtless the inflammatory action of boil may descend ; but the phenome- na and termination of the disease show that it consists at first of circumscribed inflammation of the corial substance, soon but slightly affecting the subjacent cellular tissue. The cir- cumstances which indicate the corion as the seat of furuncu- lar inflammation are,—the defined knotty tumour with which the complaint begins, the minute pustule to which