624 GENERAL ANATOMY. extensive, while its centre remains depressed. The forma- tion of purulent matter is indicated, he says, by the appear- ance of a whitish ring {albidiis annuliis,) which is at first at the vertex, but extends successively to the base of the pock. In this course, he says, it does not affect the corion {cutis) if the pocks be good; for before it reaches this membrane the purulent matter occupying the circumference of the pock either by bursting it escapes, or by the itching which it causes at length gets an outlet. Meanwhile the site of the pit or navel {umbilicus), which was previously sunk and hol- low, not only attains the uniform convexity of the rest of the pustule, which renders it spherical instead of lenticular, but is raised into a top or apex, which first allows the con- tained matter to escape. This hardening forms a crust which covers the pustule during the subsequent process of drying {persiccatio), which now commences; when this is completed the crust or scab drops off, leaving the skin un- injured. This is, according to Cottugni, the natural and most per- fect process of variolous suppuration, from which all others are more or less deviations. Thus the umbilicate pocks may degenerate into the gangrenous, corruptive, crystalline, and warty ; the vesicular deviate into the purple-like pox only. The most doubtful point of this account of the variolous inflammation, is that which relates to the disease being en- tirely confined to the mucous body of Malpighi. The exist- ence of this membrane is very doubtful, and if it cannot be demonstrated, the opinion of small-pox being confined to it is obviously inconclusive. If the term oicter surface of the corion be substituted for mucous body, the whole description may be regarded as not far from the truth. The depressed pit or navel of which Cottugni speaks, corresponds with the central slough of John Hunter, to which I shall advert in its proper place. At present, the process of variolous in- flammation, if divested of hypothetical language and opi- nions, may be stated in the following terms:— The small-pox eruption consists of circumscribed points