674 GENERAL ANATOMY. the aperture. It is most abundant in the recesses called sacculi, where it assumes the appearance of purulent fluid. In some rare instances suppuration takes place with breach of surface; and purulent abscesses have been found between the thyroid or arytenoid cartilages, and their investing mem- brane. Eeddening of the tracheal membrane is a complica- tion. Inflammation confined chiefly to the membrane of the epiglottis is described by Sir E. Home ;* and this with the arytenoid affection, Dr M. Hall shows is the effect of the ac- cidental attempt to swallow boiling water, f Of laryngeal inflammation three terminations may be enu- merated; 1*/, resolution, which takes place some time between the 36th and 60th hour ; 2d, fatal suffocation, which may take place any time after the 30th hour ; and, 3d, a chronic state with sujjpuration or ulceration of some part of the organ, which may be apprehended if the disease continues Mifthout proving fatal for four revolutions of 24 hours. The latter result is most usual after attacks so lenient as not to suffocate, but too severe to be completely resolved. The membrane then continues injected, thickened, and cor- rugated, rendering the individual hoarse and incapable of laryngeal speech. In one or more points ulceration takes place generally in oval patches, which spread and become deep, aff"ecting the submucous tissue or the perichondrium. The ulcers which were previously an effect, become now a cause of inflammation, and obstinately resisting all tendency to heal, continue to spread with chronic inflammation, and give rise to more or less wasting with hectic fever. This constitutes the disease described under the name of laryn- geal consumption; (phthisis laryngea.) (Cayol.) In some instances suppuration of the submucous filamen- tous tissue takes place previous to ulceration of the mem- brane ; and though, by affecting the perichondrium on the one side, and the laryngeal mucous membrane on the other, it may cause the same chronic process as that now described, it is generally a milder and more sanable disease. • Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. | Medico-Chirurg. Trans, Vol. xi.