764 GliNERAL ANATOMY, matted together by long triangular prisms of lymph, gene- rally opaque, of a lemon-^yellow colou)', and of a pulpy or gelatiniform consistence. Albuminous exudation or lymph is much less frequently found between the surfaces of the arachnoid membrane. That it is actually secreted by this membi-ane, however, is ■well established. Dr Stark records three cases in which coagulated lymph was found between the dura and jna mater, and round the membranous coverings of the rnedulla ob- longata and spinal chord.* One example of this exudation is delineated by Baillie ; t and Hooper represents three, in which he traces its progress from simple inflammation to organized membrane. ^ Instances of albuminous exuda- tion on the surface of the arachnoid are also mentioned by Tacheron, Andral, and Dr Abercrombie. § In the body of a woman who died with symptoms of intense coma, I found a thin but distinct albuminous deposit on the free surface of the arachnoid, extending from the optic commissure to the posterior margin of the annular protuberance. It was less firm and more translucent than in the pleura or perito- naeum, but presented in other respects the usual properties. Similar depositions have been remarked in various regions of the arachnoid by Parent-Duchatelet, Martinet, Bayle, and others. Bailie and most other observers notice, besides coagulating lymph or albuminous exudation, a serous fluid, limpid, yel- lowish, reddish, or brownish, according to circumstances. Though this fluid has been supposed to be derived immedi- ately from the blood, there is no doubt that it is the serous or watery portion of the morbid exudation, from the surface and insterstices of which it may be seen trickling. The red or brown tint it derives from blood issuing from the new formed capillaries opened by laceration of the lymph from the membrane. Shreds of lymph are at the same time found * The Works of the late William Stark, M. D. Lond. 1788. Part iv. p. 69. t Plate iv. Fascic. x. t Plates i. and ii. § Pathological and Practical Researches, &c. p. 51—56—60.