GENERAL ANATOMY. 710 tion of the coats or ulceration ; or lastly, it may pass into the chronic state. The manner in which the two first termina- tions are effected is in every respect similar to these processes, as they take place in other mucous surfaces. The third, or ulceration of the mucous and other tissues of the bladder, is not uncommon, and may occur under two forms. In the first, which is most common, it may be super- ficial, and remove the whole mucous membrane so as to ex- pose the muscular layer as if it had been neatly dissected. In the second, which is more usual, the ulcerative process advances in minute patches from the mucous to the submu- cous and muscular tissues, and in some instances to the sub- serous and peritoneal membrane. This process differs from the other in this respect, that lymph is irregularly deposited, that there is considerable swelling, and sometimes a true ab- cess is formed. More frequently, however, small portions of the mucous membrane are detached in isolated points by ul- ceration ; and though the subjacent tissues are exposed, there is no regular cavity or abscess, but merely an ulcerated depres- sion, which secretes purulent matter. (Walter.) In more severe cases, in which the suppurative or ulcerative process pene- trateslhe different coats, communications are formed between the bladder and the neighbouring parts. The most ordinary of these modes of communication are the general peritoneal cavities, or the rectum, in both sexes, and the vagina in the female. In the first case, besides other symptoms, the urine gives rise to fatal peritoneal inflammation; in the second and third, its escape by unnatural passages induces much local irritation and general distress, and eventually may terminate in death. Sloughing of the cystic mucous membrane has been known to occur, but is not common. Cyslidia Diuturna. The termination of cyslidia in the chronic form is most frequent in those who have laboured under repeated attacks of acute cystic inflammation ; those who have had urethral or prostatic inflammation, or other disease of these parts ; those having urethral stricture ; those liable to sabulous or lithic concretions, or wherever there is