613 SKIN. detachment is the result. Such is the course of phenomena in the healthy state. When the outer surface of the corion becomes inflamed or otherwise disordered, its secretion is no longer performed ■with the same perfection or regularity. The effect of this is seen in the vitiated state of the scarf-skin, which is no longer the uniform, continuous, firm, semitransparent mem- brane observed in health, but becomes broken, thickened, opaque, and divided iuto numerous scales. Of the various modes in which this secretion may be deranged, and of the varieties in cuticular disease to which it may give rise, too little is known to speak with precision of their individual forms. But it may be considered as certain, that every mor- bid state of the outer surface of the corion gives rise to cer- tain unnatural conditions of the cuticle, and that every anor- mal state of the cuticle depends originally on a morbid state of the cuticular or secreting surface of the corion. In gene- ral, this morbid state consists in some degree of inflamma- tion, or at least it is attended with some degree of this pro- cess though in the chronic form. In some instances, this chronic inflammation is obviously the immediate cause of the derangement of secretion; but in other instances, the dis- I ordered secretion continues after the inflammation subsides. The former is observed in the Greek leprosy {Lepra,) and the scaly tetter, {Psoriasis,) in both of v/hich the formation of the morbid opaque scales is preceded and attended by a red inflamed state of the corion taking place in minute spots. It is less obvious in dandriff, [Pityriasis,) in which the sur- face of the corion, though dry, harsh, and rough, is not par- ticularly red or vascular, and which, therefore, appears to exemplify the latter statement. The fish skin eruption {Ich- thyosis,) is in general so chronic, that it is difficult to say whether it is or is not attended with any degree of the in- lammatory process; but when its commencement can be raced, it is generally possible to recognize marks of inflam- nation of the outer surface of the corion. e. Cutaneous inflammation originally affecting the outer