SEROUS MEMBRANE. 801 peritonaeum, and thence proceeded to affect the greater part of the abdominal cavity, and afterwards presented at the groin, where it destroyed the bones of the pelvis, and the upper end of the thigh-bone, some years ago fell under my observation. The tumour had attained an enormous size, and consisted chiefly of cerebriform matter contained in several cysts, and in some instances sol'tened into a dark-coloured pulpy semifluid mass. 12. Scirrhous induration is said to take place in serous tis- sue. There is no doubt that it often affects this tissue from the contiguous ones, especially the mucous and submucous ; but it is not ascertained that it originates in the serous membrane. It is not necessary to confound under this name various in- durations, which seem to be the result of the inflammatory process, or the lardaeeous state observed in the omentum and mesentery in old dysenteries, which by some have been represented as examples of this morbid degeneration. 13. Accidental Developement No tissue perhaps is so liable to be accidentally repeated as the serous. The cysts already mentioned are generally regarded as examples of this repe- tition ; and, indeed, they possess all the characters of serous tissue. These cysts are found in many parts of the body ; but they are very common in the female ovary, in which they often constitute the anatomical character of dropsy of that organ. They are also seen in the testicle of the male. The mode of their developement is not well ascer- tained. The hypothesis of dilatation or expansion by mecha- nical compression was successfully refuted by Bichat; but the one which he attempts to establish in its place has not been generally adopted. The minute clustered bodies de- nominated by Laennec acephalo-cysts, and the animal nature of which, though admitted by that author, is denied by Cuvier and Rudolphi, belong to the same head; and their formation is equally little understood. 14. Before concluding this chapter, I must notice certain moi'bid states incident to the fibro-serous membranes. The dura mater, as a compound membrane, partaking at once of the structure of periosteum and ai'achnoid, is liable 3 E