GENERAL ANATOMY. 696 various size, occasioned by black blood in the submucous filamentous tissue; and that in the centre of each spot there was more or less erosion of the villous membrane. Though no black spots or erosions were seen in the mucous membrane of the ileura^ in one or two minute red spots, and slight traces of inflammation were I'ecognized. * The genei-al ac- curacy of these statements is briefly confirmed by F. L. Bang in the following terms. " Perlustrata interna facie intestini coeci atque coli, vidimus tunicam villosam alibi adhserentem,. et alibi derasam, ibidemque tunicam vasculosam lividam qua- si sanguine plenam, mesenterium rubescens vasis distinctis plenissimum." + Dr John Hunter, on the contrary, who states that he never saw abrasion or mortification of the villous coat, is inclined to think, that in the dissections mentioned by Pringle, the black colour arising from extravasated blood was mistaken for gangrene, "j'hough it is impossible to doubt that this mistake has been often committed in describing the necros- copic changes of the gastro-enteric membrane, it must not be forgotten that inflammation occasionally terminates in mortification, and that instances of this are not unusual in the tropical form of the disease especially. The general fact of inflammation is further confirmed by Maximilian Stoll, who describes the coecum, colon, especially its transverse arch, and rectum, in persons cut off' by acute dysentery, as swelled, thickened, hard, and fleshy, of a leaden or dull red colour, the mucous membrane of a foul or dingy red tint with blood, or of a deep rank green tinge removable neither by water nor the sponge,—an appearance indicating the com- mencement of elementary decomposition. J The necrological appearances of tropical dysentery have been described more or less fully by Sir W. Farquhar, Dr Ballingall, Mr Bampfield, Mr Annesley, whose several testi- monies tend to establish the general conclusion, that this dis- ease consists in inflammation of the colic mucous membrane, • Kssays and Observations, Physical and Literary, Vol. iii. article 25. f Selecta Diarii Nosocomii Hafniensis, Tom. ii. 1786. P. 223. $ Ratio Medendi, Partis iii. Vol. iii. Sectionis 4.