GENEltAL ANATOMY. 726 more frequent. It is certain that the surgeon has not un- frequently occasion to observe corresponding points of nar- row canals as the urethra adhering apparently by concre- tion of its sides. * I have even had occasion to advert above to a mode in which the vaginal mucous membrane may con- tract adhesions, and present the similitude of congenial im- perforation. The assertion of Bichat regarding the inapti- tude of mucous surfaces to adhere requires, therefore, some limitation. Certain facts lead me to infer, that one of the conditions necessary to the albuminous exudation and the subsequent concretion of mutual surfaces consists in the de- struction of the mucous epidermis by abrasion or ulceration. 5- Polypus—Under this name various morbid growths are mentioned by authors. It is represented as a disease pecu- liar to the mucous tissue, and is generally observed to take place in those regions at which it is not very remote from the skin. It occurs particularly in the nose, throat. Eusta- chian tube, the external ear-hole, and in the neck of the womb. In the stomach and bladder it is less frequent, and it very rarely occurs in the intestinal tube. It appears under one of three forms. 1. It may take place in the form of a soft ash-gray or bluish production, glistening on the surface, translucent, spongy, and compressible, and attached to the membrane by one or more narrow necks, which render it pendulous. This, which is what is termed by practical authors the benign poly- pus, is proper to the mucous tissue, of which it appears often to be merely a relaxed production or growth. It is much under the influence of atmospheric pressure, increasing in size, and causing much uneasiness while the weather is moist and the mercurial column is low. In clear dry weather, on the contrary, and wlien the height of the barometer indicates vigorous atmospheric pressure, it shrinks and contracts so much that the patient seems to forget its existence. This form of polypus is frequent in the nasal mucous membrane, in which it causes much uneasiness during its distended * Smith Ward, Mem. Med. Society, Vol. iii. p. 53C. Alaclure, Med. and Surg. Journal,