GENERAL ANATOMY. 450 three nuts, consisting of thi'ee sphei'ical pi'otiiberances, aggre- gated together, weighing §2 and 52; surrounding sub- stance soft and pulpy. In a child of 4, the white matter of the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere a scirrhus (hardened mass) the size of a nut; surrounding part vascular and injectedo Roedei'er J. G. Programma de Cerebri Scirrho, Goettingse, 1762. This after some search I have not been able to see. Vincenzio Galli negli atti dell' Academia della Scienzi di Siena detta Fisico-critici, Tom. ii.—A man of 40, who had laboured under severe cephalalgia, which was relieved by venesection, but afterwards recuri'ed with giddiness and delirium, tei'minating in death. Inflammation of the mem- branes ; effused serum in the cavities ; in the right ventricle, stretching from the optic thalamus to the corpus striatum, a tumour as large as a hen's egg, with irregular surface, and external substance dense, firm, and ash-coloured. M. Marcot, chez Memoires de la Societe de Montpellier, Tom. i. p. 334. Lyon, 1766.—A man of 47, attacked with giddiness, headach, impaired vision, palsy of right side, followed by paraplegia, convulsions, lethargy, and apo- plectic death. The posterior part of the brain correspond- ing to the tentorium, to the branches and limbs of the vault (fornix) was scirrhous and almost cartilaginous, requiring to be divided by good scissors, and grating against the cut- ting instrument. F. Lallemand, Recherches Anatomico-Pathologiques. Pa- ris, 1820. Lettre 2ieme, No. 30. 1820.—A girl of 14, with right hemiplegy, followed after four months by paraplegy, insensibility of the skin, palsy of the sphincters, and paraly- tic dyspnoea advancing progressively to fatal asphyxia. The white matter of the left hemisphere, immediately above the lateral ventricle, for the space of I| inch long, 1 inch broad, and 2 or 3 lines thick, converted into a hard substance like Gruyere cheese, and resisting the knife. Dr Abercrombie, Researches, &c. p. 431. Notes.—In a child of 4, unable to walk, with imperfect articulation, deficient in-