SEROUS MEMBRANE. 797 by serous tissue. Besides the form of pneumothorax, which results from fistulous opening of the lung, another may take place from laceration or wound of the lung. In the peritonaeum it is the result either of inflammation, of gan- grene and decomposition of serum, of ulcerative perforation, or of organic disease producing the same effect. 5. Tubercular deposition is said to be frequent in the se- rous membranes. The exact nature of the deposition, how- ever, is not well defined. The tubercular diseases occur- ring in serous membranes are of two sorts, the genuine ty- romatous, or that in which tyromatous matter is deposited, in irregular or amorphous masses in the membrane,—and the ceiichroid or miliary, in which minute lenticular bodies hard as cartilage, but transparent, are developed in these mem- branes. 6. The tyromatous deposition occurs in these membranes, but most frequently in the peritonaeum, in which it was ori- ginally observed by Morgagni, Lieutaud, and Baillie, after- wards well described by Dr Baron, and more recently ob- served by Dr MoncriefF. They are small round bodies of caseous consistence, and generally softened in the centre. They cause inflammation of the membrane. In the pleura tubercles are noticed by Morgagni, Lieutaud, and Baillie. To this head, perhaps, we may refer a variety of tyromatous tumour of the pleura observed by Mr Howship. It con- sisted in a great number of bulbous jirocesses variable in shape and size, but, apparently from the description, ob- long, spheroidal, and attached by narrow stalks or peduncles. The substance of these bodies, which was semitransparent and very firm, of a dull-yellow colour, partly fluid and partly solid, is ascribed by Mr Howship to effusion of lymph. The opacity and increase of density resulting from immersion in alcohol showed that they contained albumi- nous matter. * In the membranes of the brain they seem to be also not uncommon, though their origin from the arachnoid is not quite established. * Practical Observations on Surgery and Morbid Anatomy, p. 204.