623 SKIN. of mucous body, is raised into an inflammatory ring or mound, which prevents the morbid action from spreading. In the confluent small-pox this provision is not observed. No outer swelled or red ring is observed, and the mucous body of Malpighi is not in such circumstances affected with the just and laudable action of the disease. These results he ascribes to the spongy structure of the Malpighian meiTi- brane, which swells and secretes a lymphy fluid. In the crystalline small-pox, the fluid of which is almost pellucid, he asserts that the mucous body, instead of being converted into good matter, is filled with a caustic eroding humour, which seldom fails to leave deep scars. * Though these crystalline pocks are nearly allied to his se- cond kind, the vesicular, they must not be entirely con- founded with them. They are utterly destitute of depres- sion from their origin, are quite similar to minute blisters, and he conceives them to be generated in a similar manner, that is, by the inflammatory action operating like a scald, and detaching very rapidly from the mucous body the cuticle, so as to form vesicles or vesicular pustules. The purple-like pocks he explains in a similar manner. They are merely vesicular elevations of the cuticle, containing at first a watery fluid, but mixed afterwards with blood or bloody fluid exuding from the mucous body or vessels of the skin. They are generally mixed with petechial spots, the origin of which depends on the same cause. In short, the doctrine of Cottugni is explicitly the follow- ing —The natural and ordinary chai-acter of the small-pock is to produce in the mucous body (vascular web) of the skin a pit or depressed point, which is soon surrounded with an elevated circle, indicating inflammation of the corial surface. As this inflammatory process proceeds from the central pit or navel to the circumference, the elevated ring of mucous or vas- cular web is gradually converted into purulent matter, which necessarily renders the summit of the pock flatter and more • Dominici Cottunnii Regii Anatomes Professoris de Sedibus Variolarum Syntagma. Vienna, 1771- Ixxx. paragr.