GENERAL ANATOMY. 61^ state, and afterwards becoming hard, dry, and semitranspa- rent. When the first and thinnest pellicle is formed, the outer surface of the corion, which in the healthy state never suspends its secreting function, continues to deposit more of this semifluid, viscid matter, which in like manner, but more slowly, becomes firm; and as successive depositions continue to be formed beneath that last secreted, the cuticle in its perfect state consists of successive layers of matter secreted from the outer surface of the corion. It is not to be ima- gined, nevertheless, that they can be distinguished from each other. The secreting or depositing power of the corion is a process which is incessant and uninterrupted ; and after the first secreted portions become firm, others subjacent undergo in like manner incessant deposition and induration. While this process of repair is going on at the surface of the corion, a process of wearing or destruction is with the same rapidity in the healthy state going on at the outer or exposed surface of the cuticle. A piece of black or blue cloth rubbed gently over the skin becomes quickly whitened by minute portions of scarf-skin, which are thus detached from the firmer and more recent portions. A black silk stocking drawn on the leg for a very short time, even when the skin has been carefully washed with soap and water, comes off covered with numerous thin white amorphous scales, which are found to be minute portions of decayed cuticle, ready to be thrown off by the first slight friction. In like manner, the friction of dress, of washing, rubbing, &c. tends to remove the exposed portions of cuticle. These several facts show that this membrane is a substance secreted from the outer surface of the corion; that its production is successive and incessant process; and that it undergoes a constant wearing or detrition. As nume'rous facts show that it is an albuminous substance much indurated (Hatchett,) so it would appear that when this induration becomes ex- treme, as takes place in the exterior portions, their connec- tion with the recent and softer portions is destroyed, and