SEROUS MEMBRANE. 763 These phenomena are most commonly observed in the pleura, pericardium, and peritonceum, m each of which they are modified according to the local peculiarities of the mem- brane. In the pleura it appears in the form of a broad layer, va- riable in thickness, extending between the convex sui-face of the pulmonic and the concave surface of the costal pleura; or it may occur in the spaces between the lobes; (interlo- bular pleurisy of Laennec) ; or it may be stretched between the pleura of the inferior concave surface of the lung and that of the thoracic or convex surface of the diaphragm. When the lung is affected by tubercles or tubercular excava- tions, it often occurs in the form of short membranous slips, and very generally as a membranous capsule covering the apex of the lung, and connecting it to the thoracic pleura. In the pericardium the constant motion of the heart mo- difies the appearance of the albuminous exudation. As this motion prevents during coagulation the exact apposition of the surfaces of the capsular and cardiac divisions of the membrane, the most prominent parts, or those which least change relation only adhere. This forms the irregular lami- nated processes mentioned by Baillie as giving the appearance of lace-work; and if the capsule be separated from the heart in this stage of the process, it gives the result noticed by Laennec, who compares it to the appearance produced by the sudden separation of two pieces of slab united by a thick layer of butter. At a later period this disunion will afford the calf-stomach surface {caillebotiee ; honnei de veau),* which may be regarded as the link connecting the organizable state of the deposition with that in which it forms an adherent tissue. In the peritonaeum it takes place chiefly along the line of one portion of ileum with another, and between the promi- nent points of these and the omentum, or the muscular por- tion of the membrane. In some instances every fold almost of ileum is connected with some other, and the whole are * Laennec, Observ. 1, 2, 3, 4, and Art. ii. Obs. 4.