SKIN. 635 mation of the substance of the corion at the bulbs or con- duits of the hairs. (Celsi, Lib. vi. 3.) Under the head of canker, Clupus, noli me iangere, wolf of Wiseman and others, dartre rongeante, Pinel and Alibert,) may be noticed a disease consisting in hard elevated tubercles set in the corion, from which they appear to grow. The name of noli me iangere is applied by Wiseman to a small round acuminated tubercle" without much pain, unless when "touched, rubbed, or otherwise exasperated by topics." Though most frequent on the face, it may occur on other parts. One of these, of a bluish colour, and looking like a vein, appears from the description to have been of the nature of erectile tissue. One example of bluish spherical tubercle I have seen in the person of a woman of about 65 years of age, otherwise healthy. It was situate on the side of the nose near the middle of the nasal bone. It appeared first in the form of a small red prominence less than a pea, but gradually shot up from the skin, so as in the course of twenty months or two years from its commencement, to project at least one-third of an inch from the surrounding skin. It was then round or spherical, smooth, and even shining, and of a blue or light purple colour, which, on close examination, was de- rived from numerous minute vessels. It was connected to the skin by a neck, the base being narrower than the sum- mit, but did not adhere to the bone. What was the ulti- mate fate of this person I did not learn ; but no doubt can be entertained that if life were continued a sufficient time, the tubercle would terminate in destructive fungating ulcera- tion. I have seen also many cases of ragged ulceration of the countenance, and one or two in the incipient state before it spread to any extent. One mode in which this disease ap- pears to commence is by the formation of a patch of hard red skin, slightly but diiFusely swelled, and which is the seat of a hot, gnawing, smarting sensation. Though smooth on the surface, it is found by examination to be irregulai-.