BRAIN. 451 telligence, difficult deglutition and respiration, and frequent convulsions, terminating at the end of eighteen months in death, the olivary bodies, peduncle of the cerebellum, and mammillary eminences, were in a state of cartilaginous hard- ness. M. Andral Fils, Journal de Physiologic, Tome ii. p. 111. 1822.—In a girl of about 20 months, with alternate motion of the head to the right and left, terminating in fatal coma, without convulsion or palsy, several of the convolutions of both hemispheres had become extremely hard, and assumed the colour of ivory. When pressed between the fingers they resisted like fibro-cartilage ; when drawn, they recoiled. Si- milar indurations were found in the substance of the hemi- spheres to their base. The right hemisphere of the cere- bellum contained a round cyst with smooth walls, of the ca- pacity of a nut, containing minute, hard, irregular-shaped concretions, of strong consistence, and similar to the spicu- Ise of a fractured bone. M. J. Bouillaud, Traite de I'Encephalite. Paris, 1825. P. 161, Obs. 33.—A man of 57, with impaii-ed speech, after a cerebral disorder; in the anterior lobe of the left hemi- sphere an albuminous mass, the size of an egg, sprinkled with drops of blood, and drops of purulent fluid. Ibid. Observat. 36. p. 183—A man of 57, with right he- miplegy, intellectual imbecillity, and involuntary repetition of the last words spoken to him, after an apoplectic attack, terminating in complete fatuity and death, with injection of the membranes and cerebral substance, in the anterior third of the left hemisphere was found an indurated nut, the size of an egg, surrounded by bloody clots and distinct injection. A longitudinal section presented yellowish colouring and red-brown points, depending on the presence of blood co- loured with the substance in which it was effused. The sub- stance of the indurated mass resembled concrete pus mixed with blood, grating under the knife, and containing minute bloody effusions with filamentous substance, and, though much firmer than the rest of the brain, falling easily under