785 SEROUS MEMBRANE. mater and choroid plexus are more or less sometimes highly injected ; the arachnoid is dull, opaque, and lustreless ; the subarachnoid tissue is infiltrated, especially in the vicinity of the vessels; and serum is effused in the ventricles. In an extreme case of this nature, which occurred under the care of Dr Renton, and in which the patient had delirium amounting to mania for three weeks previous to death, I found, among other lesions, the whole j)ia mater most ex- tensively injected, and its minute vessels of a scarlet red co- lour, while the lai'ge vessels were filled with dark blood. The scarlet-coloured capillaries were distinct and abundant at the convoluted surface, and in particular at the base of the brain, and in the portion which covers the outer surface of the hippocampus major. 1 he arachnoid was dull, opaque, and elevated by subserous infiltration. At the inner mar- gins of the hemisphere, in the neighbovu'hood of the falx, the arachnoid of the pia mater adhered to that of the dura mater with albuminous effusion ; and pisiform or lenticular eminences like those described by Greding and others were found proceeding from the pia mater. The choroid plexus was also injected; and serum to the amount of about an ounce or ten drachms was found in the ventricles. The substance of the convoluted or gray matter of the brain was extensively traversed by reddish vessels, in which the blood was still fluid. Chronic Meningeal injlammation. The pathological causes of insanity.—However general be the opinion that mental derangement may exist independent of anatomical change in the state of the brain or its coverings, in the writings of va- rious authors we find ample proof of two facts ; that mental derangement is always connected with some change in the organization of these parts ; that most anormal changes give rise, sooner or later, to confusion of thought, incoherent ideas, and insane actions; and that deranged intellect is one only of several symptoms which may occur in consequence. Al- ready, when enumerating the morbid changes incident to the brain, I have alluded occasionally to several of those which may induce insanity. I am now to advert to a state of the 3 D