719 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. small intestines, especially those of the ileum. * This infe- rence is confirmed by several dissections of Valsalva and Mor^ gagni, t who in hematemesis and intestinal hemorrhage found the gastro-enteric mucous membrane always entire, and its vessels more or less injected. From an extensive collection of cases. Portal derives con- clusions still more distinct. This anatomist shows, 1st, that the black matter dischai-ged by vomit and by stool, or by vomiting only, is genuine blood, which is seen to ooze after death from the blood-vessels of the stomach and intestines; 2f/, that this oozing or transudation takes place from the gastric, duodenal, and mesenteric arterial extremities into the cavity of the stomach or intestines, separately or at once, more frequently into the stomach only, in consequence of certain arterial branches receiving more blood than the cor- responding veins return ; and, 3dli/, though compression of the branches of the portal vein may cause this extravasation, the blood is not effused from the vasa brevia, in which it flows in an opposite direction. X Similar are the views of Abernethy, who states that in the bodies of several persons who died under attacks of this disease, he found " the villous coat of the alimentary canal highly inflamed, swollen, and pulpy. Bloody specks were ob- served in various parts ; and sphacelation had actually taken place in one instance. The liver was healthy in some cases and diseased in others." He concludes, therefore, that the diseases termed hcematemesis and melcena arise from " violent disorder, and consequent diseased secretion of the external coat of the bowels ; and that the blood discharged does not flow from any single vessel, but from the various points of the diseased surface." ยง From the same source originates the cocoa-coloured fluid observed by Baillie in fatal cases oihae- matemesis. \\ * Mcilecina? Rationalis Systematicje, pars ii. sect. i. chap. iii. ยง 17. '\ Epist. xxix. 10 ; xxxi. 23; xxxvi. 11. X Memoires siir la Nature et le Traitement dc Plusieurs Maladies, Par Antoine Portal, Tom. ii. Paris, 1800. P. 108. ยง On the Constitutional Origin and Treatment, &c. p. .30. London, 1811. II Lectures and Observations on Medicine.