671 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. latter complication, the disease constitutes lacrymal fistula. In either mode it is sometimes the result of syphilis, and very often where mercury has been given for the treatment of that disease. Similar disease of the lacrymal duct may take place in consequence of previous chronic inflammation of the eyelids and Meibomian glands. The mucous membrane of the nasal passages is inflamed in Coryza,—an affection forming the preliminary part of catarrh. A secondary coryza occurs in nasal polypus; and ozcena, which consists in chronic suppurative inflammation of the nasal membrane lining the nasal and covering the spongy bones, is always preceded by similar inflammation. The same process is not unfrequent in the fibro-mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus, in which it generally proceeds to suppuration, forming abscess of that cavity. J. Otitis.—The membrane of the external auditory passage is, strictly speaking, neither skin nor mucous membrane, but a texture intermediate between both. In its morbid relations it is, however, more closely connected with the lat- ter, and is often the seat of inflammation, producing a yellow puriform discharge {^otorrhcea) from the outer surface of the tympanal membrane, and the membrane lining the ear- hole. The membrane is then red, soft, villous, and highly tender. The average duration of this disease is from fifteen days to three weeks, after which the fluid discharged be- comes thicker, and in colour, consistence, and odour, resem- bles caseous matter. The ceruminous glands are disordered during its presence; but as it recedes their seci'etion be- comes abundant. b. Tympaiiia.—Though the membrane of the tympanal cavi- ty and the Eustachian tube presents a smooth uniform surface, moistened by a thin watery fluid possessing little resem- blance to mucus, yet, as continuous with the naso.guttural membrane, and as similar to that of the facial sinuses, it may be placed in pathological properties in this situation, Bichat indeed corrects the error of those anatomists who