729 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 6. Tyromatous deposition, commonly denominated tubercu- lar, is not uncommon in the mucous tissue. It occurs chiefly in the alimentary canal, and in the uterus in the persons of the strumous. Its characters in the former situation are well de- scribed by Dr Monro iertius. * In the uterus it has been ob- served by several, 7. Scirrho-carcinoma is a frequent organic change in mucous tissue. It occurs under three forms,—fibro-cartilaginous de- position, tubercular deposition, and lardaceous degeneration. Though it may affect any of the regions of these surfaces, it is more frequent in certain points than in others. Thus it occurs very often in the oesophagus, in the cardia, in the pyloric end of the stomach, in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, in the rectum, and in the uterus, occasionally in the larynx and trachea. In the oesophagus and stomach it has been seen by many observers, among others, by Morgagni, Bleuland, Palletta, Baillie, Chardel, Monro, Howship, Arm- strong j in the pylorus it has also been seen by many ; (Mor- gagni, Baillie, Pinel, Holmes, Louis, &c.) and the rectum is perhaps the most frequent seat of scirrho-carcinoma of any of the internal parts. In all these situations the anatomical characters of the disease are much the same. In the mucous corion, or at its attached surface, is formed a deposition of white or gray fibro-cartilaginous substance, the fibrous bands running transversely to the direction of the bowel. This de- position is firm, of ligamentous consistence, and undergoes a self-destroying process in the interior. In general, however, the mucous pellicle forming its free surface undergoes ul- ceration ; or contraction of the canal takes place to such an extent as to interfere with the functions of the organ, and terminate life. Tubercular induration is another form in which scirrhus may affect the mucous tissue. A portion becomes occupied by irregular nodulated masses, consisting of hard spheroidal bodies not unlike cartilage, sometimes softer like flesh inter- * Morbid Anatomy, p. i!17.