BRAIN. 467 tremity of the right lobe. It consisted of two sorts of struc- ture ;—one in the centre, as large as a pigeon's egg, had the consistence of fibro-cartilage, and resembled fibrous sub- stances proceeding to the cartilaginous state ; the other ex- terior, grayish, was confounded with the cerebral substance from which it appeared to be formed. L. N. Rostan, Recherches sur une Maladie encore peu con- nue. Paris, 1820. P. 84>. Observ. 20ieme. 1820—A wo- man of 62 had during the course of life been deranged se- veral times, during which she committed extravagant acts, though rare and of short duration. She had now constant headach, with occasional raving, giddiness, and vomiting, followed by palsy of the right side, and complete derange- ment. In a few days more she became comatose, and, with complete right hemiplegy and stertorous respiration, she ex- pired. In the upper middle of the left hemisphere, which was softened all round, a little beneath the convoluted sub- stance, was a small yellowish granular nut. Anteriorly in the striated body was a cancerous tumour as large as a nut, compressing the ventricle. In the right hemisphere, which was sound and consistent in its anterior |ths, but injected towards the posterior-inferior region, was a cancerous tumour as large as a small nut, with pulpy destruction of the sur- rounding substance. This account is deficient in failing to state the physical characters of the several tumours. A re- cord more instructive is found in the following:— M. Andral Fils, Cancer du Cerveau, from La Charite, in the words of M. Lerminier, Journal de Physiologie, Tome ii. p. 105. 1822—A man of 58 felt fifteen years before acute pain of the right temple, radiating in the right side of the head and face, and lasting for six weeks. During subsequent years it returned at irregular intervals, and continued for pe- riods of various duration till two months previous to admis- sion, when it became so intense as to oblige the patient to give up his usual employments. Without affection of sen-