MUCOUS MEMBRANE 693 have no doubt that it commences in inflammation of the mu- cous membrane ; but as it was found in the cases to which I allude in the form of ulcerated patches, I prefer, for the sake of obvious and easy distinction, to designate it as above. In the best marked instance in which I have seen it, and the preparation of which is before me, it occurred in the form of three large bands near the lower end of the ileum, extending transversely round the entire circumference of the bowel. The broadest of these bands is about two inches, the narrowest about eight lines. Over the whole of these spaces is the mucous membrane completely removed by the ulcerative process, leaving an irregular surface, partly gra- nulating, partly ulcerated in the mucous tissue. The mar- gins are sharp, clean, and accurately cut, almost as if they had been divided by a knife, and slightly turned up, so as to leave an excavated furrow beneath the mucous membrane which forms the margins. The colour of the bottom of these ulcerated patches, when recent, was reddish brown, and the contiguous mucous membrane was red, verging to pale rose colour and peach-blossom. This, however, has disappeared, and at present it is much the same tint as the healthy part of the mucous surface. The mucous membrane is a good deal thickened, and rather firmer than in the sound part of the tube. At each of these ulcerated bands the submucous and subserous filamentous tissue is thickened, but indurated and contracted, so as to diminish considerably the calibre of the canal. In the first patch, which is about tv/elve inches from the ileo-coecal valve, this thickening consists of a firm knot like a bean, at the mesenteric side of the bowel, and the intes- tine is contracted to about half its usual capacity. In the second, about five inches from the ileo-coecal valve, this in- durated knot at the mesenteric attachment of the bowel is equally well marked, and has had, if possible, greater in- fluence in contracting and diminishing the canal of the bowel. The ulcerated surface is very irregular by soft spongy emi- nences, separated by means of linear furrows. The third occupies the end of the ileum and beginning of the colon.