768 GENERAL ANATOMY. The purulent fluid in this case and many others is se- creted partly from the surface of the inflamed membrane, partly ft-om the oi-ganized layer of lymph, partly from both. In the first case, the puriform or purulent fluid is secreted directly by the capillaries of the inflamed membrane. In the second, it is derived from those of the organized false membranes, which assume the suppurative action. In the thirdj both sets of vessels are concerned. These facts are demonstrated in instances of chronic pleurisy, and of chronic inflammation of the peritomeum. A second effect of inflammation of the diaphanous mem- branes is effusion or secretion of fluid in the subserous fila- mentous tissue. When the arachnoid membrane is inflamed the delicate filamentous tissue which connects it to the mater is almost invariably distended with serous fluid, more or less transparent. This change makes the arachnoid mem- brane look as if it were raised or detached from the p/a mate}' by the interposition of a transparent or slightly opaque ge- latinous matter uniformly spread between them. If a punc- ture or incision, however, be made, a small portion only trickles from it, being that which is exposed to the immedi- ate incision. The fluid of the contiguous parts does not escape,—a circumstance which with inspection shows that it is contained in the interstices formed by the mutual cros- sing of the filaments of the subserous tissue. In this manner and in the same situation albuminous fluid may be effused, especially at the base of the brain. In pleurisy this effusion is less common, unless the pulmonic tissue is at the same time inflamed,—a peculiarity which appears to depend on the intimate union between the pleura and lungs. In in- a glutinous concretion, or slough of the same colour as the fluid, in some parts adhering very loosely, in others so firmly, that it can hardly be rubbed off; but still the surface covered by these sloughs is without ulceration or loss of substance."—Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. ii. p. 61. Baillie, Morbid Anatomy, passim. Black, Clinical and Pathological Reports. Newry, 1819. Willan, Reports on the Diseases of London, 1797- P- 18C. 8vo Edition.