682 GENERAL ANATOMY. form it may affect the mucous glands^ and produce ulcera- tion. Irregular patches of the latter I have seen in sub- jects in whom the colic membrane was extensively covered by ulcers. The cases described by Dr F. Simmons and Dr Gartshore appear to have affected the submucous tissue. |3. The gastric mucous membrane maybe inflamed generally or partially. When a limited portion of the villous mem- brane is inflamed, the disease is seldom violent. The mu- cous membrane of the inflamed part shows an unusual num- ber of minute vessels, but is rarely much crowded. In some instances, however, it is red or scarlet, with vessels disposed in arborescent, punctular, or striated fashion; and not uijfrequently spots or patclies of extravasated blood are recognized. At the same time, the substance of the mucous coat is thicker than natural, of pulpy softness, and when at- tempted to be detached, is readily lacerated. The gastric mucous membrane is liable, nevertheless, to a more general inflammatory process, in which its surface pre- sents a light rose-coloured blush diffused all over, and se- cretes mucous or muco-purulent fluid copiously. The mucous membrane is also pulpy and softened, but not remarkably thickened. This state of the gastric membrane, though oc- curring spontaneously, may be produced by repletion or improper articles of food, and by several of the acrid poison- ous substances. Of this form of gasteria a good delineation is given by Dr Armstrong in the 2d pi. of his 1st Fasciculus. Gaslena psilotica ; Psilosis—In the persons of those who have long pined under various chronic diseases, the gastric mucous membrane is liable to a form of disease in which some part of it becomes pale white, bluish, rose-coloured, or gray, continuously or in long narrow stripes, or irregular patches more or less thickly set. The spaces so coloured are simply depressed beneath the level of the adjoining membrane, not ulcerated, soft and thin, and converted into a glairy semitransparent pulp. According to M. Louis, to whom the pathologist is indebted for the correct descrip- tion of this change, when in narrow stripes it is distributed