SEROUS MEMBRANE. 765 floating in it. This is most generally seen in the pleura and pericardium. I have already stated that the exudation of inflamed serous membrane owes its coagulability to the presence of albumi- nous matter; and indeed upon the proportion of this ingre- dient the process of coagulation depends. In certain in- stances, in which the inflammatory process is believed to be less genuine and energetic, this principle is so scanty that coagulation is partial and imperfect; and instead of a uni- form layer of lymph between the mutual surfaces, each pre- sents a series of loose shreds and patches, with a considera- ble quantity of reddish or whitish semi-opaque fluid in the dependent part of the cavity. This constitutes the link be- tween the albuminous and the purulent, sero-purulent, or se- rous products of inflammation in these membranes. Examined more minutely we find that the fluid varies in its proportion of albumen in different membranes, and ac- cording to the form of the inflammatory process. These variations may be referred generally to two heads, puriform and serous secretions. The varieties of puriform secretion may be classed under the heads of sero-purulent, purifoi'm, and purulent. The sero-purulent is often connected with the albuminous, from which it is separated during the process of coagulation. It consists chiefly of serous fluid with minute granules of al- buminous matter, which subside to the bottom and leave the supernatant liquor like whey or chalk-water. It always contains flakes of lymph. It takes place in pleuritic and peritonaeal inflammation, acute and chronic, and is generally foimd in the dependent part of the cavity, e. g. in the poste- rior part of the chest, and in the lumbar and hypogastric fosscc in the peritonaeum. The puriform fluid of serous membranes consists of se- rous fluid, with an opaque and thicker matter not coagu- lable in mass blended with it more equably than in the last case. The granular matter is less abundant or entirely wanting; and the opaque milky fluid is not so easily sepa- rable as in the sero-purulent fluid. Though it is often asso-