689 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. nal hemorrhage. In some instances it is shaded from a light rose to blood-colour or wine-coloured crimson, '^id, The intes- tinal membrane may be marked by redness disposed in various forms, arborescent, asteroid, or punctular, or in slender linear streaks. These appearances may occur independent of inflam- mation, as an effect of transudation, or stagnation during the last hours of existence or after death, and should therefore be distinguished from the same forms of redness in connection with the inflammatory process, when they indicate a slight or incipient form of it. 3. A common form is in red or brown patches, irregular in size and shape, with sensible elevation above the surrounding membrane, forming a sort of puffy swelling, the surface of which is rough and irregular, and, though not hard, void of its natural feel. Though tliese patches may occur in any part of the small or large intestine, they are most common at the termination of the ileum and the beginning of the colon. From petechial and ecchymotic blotches, with which they are liable to be confounded, they may be distinguished by the blood being observed, in pieces of intestine held up to the light, to be still contained within vessels. (Latham.) These red patches are exceedingly prone to proceed to ulceration, which takes place in one or more points near their centre, and by extension and coalition pro- duce in no long time a breach in the continuity of the mucous corion equal in size to the original patch. This is the form of disease described by MM. Petit and Serres under the name Entero-mesenteric fever, and which there is reason to believe is occasionally epidemic in Paris.* Of the same nature is the disease which was prevalent in the Mill- bank Penitentiary during 1822 and 1823. According to the luminous and accurate description of Dr Latham, the patches which most frequently were circular, and not exceeding the diameter of a pea, were dispersed at intervals through the whole tract of the intestines. When larger and more irre- gular, they appear to have been the result of the coalescence □f several small patches. The transition to ulceration in this * Traite de la Fievre Entero-mesenteriquc, p. 139. X X