GENERAL ANATOMY. 456 Haller^ Opusc. Pathol. Obs. 1.—In a beggar-girl of 6 yeai's, with enlarged mesenteric^ inguinal, and bronchial glands, the left hemisphere of the cerebellum was found ad- hering to the occipital dura mater ; the whole substance, white and gray, changed into a hard mass two inches in diameter on both sides, uniformly thick, fibrous like the kidney, fissile, destitute of vessels, and without remaining trace either of gray matter or of white ramification. John Jac. Huber, Nova Acta Physico-Medico Academ. Caesarese Leopoldino-Carolinse, Tom. iii. p. 533; also Com- ment, de rebus in Scientia Naturali, Vol. xviii. p. 335.—In the brain of a boy of 3, cut off by decay (tabes J, a hard glandular tumour, of the size of a filbert, in colour, hardness, and other qualities like a lymphatic gland. When divided it was found to consist of a thin coat enclosing a hard nucleus, which, though compared to purulent matter, was firm and coloured. Jo. Ernest. Greding, apud Ludwig Adversaria Medico- Practica, Vol. ii. p. ii, p. 492. 1771.—A woman of 30, of delicate constitution, unmarried, labouring under mania, with paroxysms of great violence; apoplectic attack followed by palsy of left side; death in about twenty days after. In the right hemisphere, about one inch below the convoluted surface, an ovoid mass, five inches long, three broad, convex- shaped like a lens, one-fifth of an inch thick at middle, rest- ing on the centrum ovale and mesolobe, consisting internally of dark-red {alro-ruhens) hard granular substance, like half- rotten sandy pear, enclosed all round in gray, soft, inodorous puriform matter, {ramollissemeiit.) Mr Henry Earle, in Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. iii. p. 59. 1812 A boy 2 years and 9 months old. Dilated pupil; palsy of lower extremities and sphincters, fol- lowed by convulsions of the face, and palsy of the upper ex- tremities and trunk; death by paralytic asphyxia. In the anterior lobe of the right hemisphere a large dusky red tu- mour, rather rough. In the posterior lobe of the same he- misphere, and in that of the left, a tumour each. In the 4