620 GENERAL ANATOMY. attempted by Willan and Bateman. Looking only at the pathological process by which they are developed and ad- vance to maturity, it is more natural to consider them as differing in degree only, and as gliding by imperceptible shades into each other, than as always capable of being ac- curately distinguished. What is a vesicle when first ob- served, may assume the appearance of a pustule on the fol- lowing day ; and the thin sero-albuminous fluid, by which they have been supposed to be distinguished, may be con- verted into purulent matter before the termination of the disease. As the terms^ nevertheless, are useful as precise distinctions in nomenclature and description, and as they occasionally may be traced to a pathological difference, I re- tain them in the present observations. f. Cutaneous injlammalion originally affecting the outer surface of the corion, aftertvards its substance, and producing purulent matter more or less perfect. Inflammation of the minute circumscribed kind, though commencing originally on the surface, may speedily affect the substance of the corion, and in its progress may pro- duce more or less loss of substance, with formation of puru- lent matter. The objects thus formed are named pustules, and are to be viewed as instances of genuine phlegmonous or rather purulent inflammation of the skin. Practical au- thors enumerate four forms under which this species of cu- taneous inflammation may take place :—1st, the psydracium ; 2d, the ackor ; 3d, the favus ; and, 4th, the phiyzacium. To this number I feel it necessary to add the phlyctidium. The psydracium may be viewed as the connecting link between the vesicle and pustule. It is small, often irregu- larly circumscribed, producing but slight elevation of the cuticle, and terminating in a laminated scab. It is attend- ed with little or no redness of the surrounding skin (areola), does not affect the corion deeply, and rarely almost never leaves a hollow scar. Several of them often appear together, and becoming confluent after discharging the scanty puri- form matter which they furnish, pour out a thin watery fluid, which on drying forms an irregular incrustation.