SEROUS MEMBRANE. 783 natural result of this distribution is, that when the membrane is inflamed, and its vessels in consequence secrete watery fluid, while that from the outer division is deposited beneath the arachnoid coat, that of the inner trickles from the mem- brane, on the figurate surface of the brain, or in the ventri- cles, in which its effects are in proportion to its quantity. If small, it produces little change on the parts of the brain. If copious, it raises the vault, pushes out the walls of the ventricles, enlarges their capacity and dimensions, breaks down the median septum, forming a large communicating aperture, and may ultimately extend the substance of the or- gan, and render it so thin as to give it the appearance of a mere bag, containing a considerable quantity of water. In some instances fluid is not found in the ventricles. The pia mater and plexus, however, are highly injected, the arach- noid is opaque, dull, and dry-looking, and the subarachnoid tissue is infiltrated. This demonstrates that the symptoms of the disease depend not on the effusion, but on the previ- ous vascular injection. In addition to these proofs derived from inspection, that the fluid proceeds not from the brain but its membranes, it may be added, that in the fcetal state, previous to the forma- tion of brain fluid, may be derived from the congested vas- cular membrane. The new action thus established gives a sudden check to the normal action of the vessels; and as the formation of the brain is thus interrupted, the individual is born anencephalous. The same process taking place in the vertebral portion of the membrane during the early months of foetal life, causing at once serous effusion, interruption to the growth of the chord, and arresting that of the spinal plates, and their mutual union constitutes spina bifida. The influence of acute meningitis in deranging the mental faculties, though questioned by Bayle, appears to me un- doubted, for the following reasons :— \st, In some few cases of the disease taking place in adults, and in which its nature was confirmed by accurate inspec- tion, I have remarked the same confusion of thought, inca- pacity of judgment, and incoherence of speech as in the ma-