700 GENERAL ANATOMY. found to be cheese-like substance. As the opening enlarges, the edges become prominent, the base grows rough, and ma^tter sometimes tinged with blood oozes from it. This is the progress of one pustule or tubercle ; but they are gene- rally in clusters, and may coalesce and form an unequal ulcerated surface, with a hard thickened base. * Of much the same nature are the granulations of the in- testinal raucous membrane, described in the persons of the phthisical by Louis- According to this observer these gra- nulations are of two sorts, the semicariilaginous and the tu- bercular. The former, which in the cases inspected were most frequent and most numerous, were distributed equally round the bowel; and though dispersed occasionally through its whole length with intervals of two or three square in- ches, they were generally largest and most numerous to- wards the coecum. They were not seen in the colon. Ge- nerally after attaining the size of a pea, the mucous mem- brane at top became thick, soft, and gave way; and the destructive process thus begun advanced, forming an ulcer with hard, white, opaque edges. The tubercular granula- tions, which were less frequent, were never seen near the duodenum, and always most numerous near the coecum, oc- cupied indiscriminately any point of the bowel. They ter- minated by softening in minute ulcers. It does not appear that the ulcers thus formed are ever cicatrized, t When cicatrization either of the simple or the tubercular ulcer does not take place, or takes place imperfectly, yet without causing immediate death, it gives rise to the symp- toms denominated lientery (Xinvri^ia, slippery bowels); and its natural termination is dropsy, abdominal and general. By these ulcers the colon is occasionally perforated with the same eflfects as other parts of the canal. Haller records an in- stance in which an ulcer of the transverse arch, by gradual absorption, perforated the coats of the stomach; J and Low- " Observations on the Diseases of the Army in Jamaica, &c. By John Hunter, M. D. F. R. S. &e. Lend. 1784. Chap. 4, Sect. 2. p. 230, 231, Recherches Anatomico-Pathologiques sur la Phthisic. Paris, 1825, $ Opuscula Patholog.