GENERAL ANATOMY. 720 It may therefore be inferred, that the blood discharged in this disease issues from the loaded capillary vessels of the gastric, duodenal, and ileal mucous membrane without breach of surface; and as it is anatomically impossible to distinguish these vessels into arteries and veins, the dispute whether the blood issues from the one or other order is frivolous. The blood may acquire its dark colour from two causes; 1*^, admixture with the gastric juice in the stomach and duo- denum ; and, 2d, from the action of the carbonic acid, sul- phuretted hydrogen, and other substances of acid properties contained in the intestinal canal. Haemoplysis ; Pneumonorrhagia ; Pulmonary Hemorrhage ; Pulmonary Apoplexy—For the first accurate description of the anatomical characters of pulmonary hemorrhage, we are indebted to the researches of the elaborate Stark, who ascer- tained the following facts. The air vesicles in some parts of the lungs are filled with blood or bloody serum ; the parts do not collapse on opening the chest, but are firm, dark or light red in colour, and can neither be compressed nor dis- tended by the usual inflation. When cut into, thick blood or bloody matter issues from the cut surfaces; and portions of the diseased parts, after being macerated in water, still sink as before maceration. He further showed, by blowing air into the blood-vessels and air-tubes of the sound and dis- eased portions respectively, that in the latter air passes from the branches of the pulmonary artery and veins into the bronchial tubes; in other words, that the capillary vessels of the lungs communicate freely with the bronchial tubes and air-cells. * The general accuracy of this description has since been verified by the researches of Laennec, who has indeed ren- dered the pathological anatomy of this disorder more pre- cise than formerly. From these, it results that a portion of the pulmonic tissue becomes uniformly hard, of a dark red colour, and impermeable to air. The indurated spot is al- ways partial, from one to four cubic inches in extent, cir- • The Works of the late William Stark, iVI. D. &c. London, 1788, p. 34 4