GENERAL ANATOMY. 770 of the membrane manifestly loaded with extravasated matter in the interstices of the filamentous tissue. What are the cases in which the serous membranes become pulpy or soft- er than natural, while they are also thickened ? On these points accurate information is still wanting. The next effect of the inflammatory process in serous membranes is destruction of their tissue by ulceration. Though this may happen in the acute form of the disease, it is not common. But after it has subsisted for some time, one or more points of the membrane begin to be affected by the ulcerative process, which at once spreads superficially, and penetrates its substance. The manner in which this takes place is invariably by the inflammatory process aftecting the subserous tissue, and causing there suppuration in a cir- cumscribed point. The serous membrane being no longer supported at this point, gives way sometimes in round irre- gular patches, sometimes in ragged linear fissures. This process is not equally common in all the serous membranes. It is most usual in the pleura, pulmonic and costal, and in the muscular peritonaeum. By some pathologists, and, if I do not misunderstand him, by Hunter, ulceration is ascribed to pressure exercised by purulent matter; and thus, indeed, this author explains the tendency which collections of matter betray to proceed towards the surface. The pressure of such agents, doubtless, operates as an irritating cause, and may therefore produce what Hunter terms iilceralive injlammal'ion. In several ex- amples, however, ulceration may occur as a direct effect of the inflammatory process, without the formation of matter sufficient by pressure to cause destruction of the tissue; and in such circumstances I have in general traced it to previous suppuration of the subserous tissue, as already mentioned. In cases of empyema and chronic peritonitis, especially the puerperal form in which this ulceration is not unfrequent, both causes may be in operation. But even in the interest- ing case of peritonaeal inflammation given by Hunter to illus- trate the nature of what he terms the relaxing process, it is impossible to doubt, that, before the muscular peritonaeum