802 GENEUAL ANATOMY. to affections which bear this twofold character. Its outer or cranial lamina is liable to all the morbid processes incident to periosteum. Its inner or arachnoid, it has been already shown, is liable to those peculiar to this membranous pellicle. I have already shown that the latter surface of the dura mater is occasionally covered by albuminous exudation, the result of the inflammatory process. This same substance is occasionally deposited between its laminae, and causes thick- ening and some induration. Tyromatous deposition in round nodules also occurs in this membrane, and has been well represented by Dr Hooper in his 6th and 7th engravings. They possess all the charac- ters of the usual tyromatous matter, and consist of whitish or gray opaque substance of the consistence of cheese, of dif- ferent degrees of firmness, inclosed in a vascular capsule. Generally they grow from the arachnoid surface of the mem- brane, but sometimes they seem to arise from its substance. The dura mater often becomes the seat of a firm tumom-, which as it grows produces absorption of the cranial bones. In the excellent collection of cases by M. Louis, we find that it invariably proceeded to bad ulceration ; but that death in general took place in consequence of interruption to the functions of the brain. In the testicle I have seen a peculiar disease which I re- fer to the albuginea and its serous covering. The testicle seems much enlarged and irregular; but shortly ulceration takes place, and discloses an extensive mass of dead matter evidently exterior to the gland. The sloughing process al- ternating with ulceration and granulation proceeds till the whole exterior coat of the testicle is expelled. This pro- cess, which occurred in a scrofulous subject, and never showed any tendency to malignant ulceration, I ascribe to death of the fibro-serous covering of the testicle. Cartilaginous and bony matter of different degrees of firm- ness and perfection are often observed in the cerebral mem- branes, more especially the dura mater. Of this change mani- fold instances are given by Bonetus, Morgagni, Lieutaud, San- difort, and other collectors; and they are delineated by Baillie