64S SKIN. When this was exposed to the temperature of the spirit-lamp, the greatest part of the volatile oil was evaporated, leaving a transparent, colourless, but viscid and semifluid substance, com- municating to paper a stain becoming less deep, but not wholly removable by exposure to a liigh temperature. These results favour the idea that the matter of these bodies is oleaginous ; but I was unable to observe any action of aqua potasses or aqua ammon'ue, after repeated trials, both at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere and when liquefied by a gentle heat. By the sulphuric acid it is hardened and blackened ; by the nitric acid its yellow colour is rendered more in- tense. * Whether the presence of these yellow adipocirous bodies is uniform in the molluscum I have had no subsequent means of ascertaining. If they are, it may be reasonably conjec- tured that their formation depends on some morbid or vitia- ted state of the sebaceous follicles. Wart and corn are believed to depend on morbid accumu- lation of cuticle. The former, however, is vascular at its basis; and it may therefore be inferred that its production depends on morbid action of the surface of the corion at the particular point at which it appears. 2. Dermalcemia. Dermatorrhagia.—Hemorrhage of the skin appears under two forms; either that of a bloody or blood- coloured fluid oozing from certain regions, or of blood ef- fused in the form of purple specks, spots, patches, or livid stripes on the surface of the corion below the scarf-skin. The former discharge is rare, and takes place chiefly as a supple- mentary evacuation to some natural one accidentally sup- pressed, as the menstrual discharge in females. The latter is of a different nature, and is both the effect and proof of a morbid state of the system. Restricted in this manner, hemorrhage from the corion * A good painting of the subject of this case was made by my late friend StafT-Surgeon Schetky, and by him deposited in the pathological collection of Chatham Hospital.