GENERAL ANATOMY. 686 Besides the ulcerative perforation now mentioned, another variety has been described by Jaeger of Wirtemberg, Zeller of Tubingen, Cruveilhier of Paris, and Dr John Gairdner of this place, as occurring in the stomach and bowels of infants generally at the breast. From the elaborate examination of this subject by the latter author, it appears that these perforations are probably not the result of previous ulceration, but are eifected by some solvent power of the fluids after death; that, nevertheless, the parts so eroded and perforated ap- pear to undergo a previous change of structure, in conse- quence of which they are less able to resist the solvent power. * Before I conclude this subject, I may remark, that in some instances the mucous follicles appear to become en- larged in consequence of chronic inflammation, without af- fection of the gastric membrane. A very good instance of this change is recorded by Haller, who found in the pyloric end of the stomach of a woman of 64, ten or twelve hemi- spherical bodies like papillce, with black or perforated sum- mits, and cavities full of purulent matter. Though the size of these bodies was variable, the diameter of some was three lines, in others a full inch, t A particular cause of gastric mucous ulceration has been supposed to exist in certain substances belonging to the class of corrosive poisons. That in many instances these sub- stances induce inflammation, ulceration, and erosion of the gastric tissues, cannot be denied ; and this is true, particu- larly of the concentrated mineral acids, as is shown in the cases and experiments of Tartra, Orfila, and Brodie. Though it is true, however, that these substances produce in many instances inflammation, and in several corrosion, it is not established that they cause ulceration. It is very doubtful even if arsenic itself, to which this property has been often ascribed, ever induces ulceration ; for in a large proportion of cases in which particles of the solid oxide have been found in the stomach no ulceration has been recognized. * Medico-Chirurgical Transactions of Edinburgh, Vol. i. p. 311. I Opuscula Pathologica Obsetvat. xxvii.