761 SEROUS MEMBllANE. face exteriorly, where it is in contact with the membranes^ and interiorly, with thready filaments mutually interlacing, and more or less consistent. A thin fluid portion at the same time is found in the interstices of these filaments, and oozes from the surface of the coagulated part. These facts are easily demonstrated by examining the effused mat- ter while still recent, and while the process of coagulation is going on, but not completed. It is then a soft, spongy, translucent matter, of a straw-yellow colour, and pulpy ge- latinous consistence. When removed from the membrane its surface is rough and irregular, like honey-comb, and marked by blood spots more or less numerous, which are occasioned by the forcible rupture of the minute vessels of the membrane passing into the new pi-oduct; while serous fluid trickles from it, and falls to the most dependent part of the cavity. When cut or torn in minute pieces this se- rous fluid oozes abundantly from the sections ; and the ob- server may then remark the filamentous and cellular dispo- sition of the solid coagulated portions. The filaments vary- ing in size cross each other mutually, so as to form partitions and intermediate cells, but without regular order. The matter thus effused is what was named by Hunter coagulating or coagulahle lyvipli, in consequence of its pro- perty of spontaneous coagulation. It is often mentioned among some of the older anatomists as masses of liquid fat found between the serous membranes; and even Dr Cleg- horn speaks of it in this manner. Its property of coagula- tion depends chiefly on the proportion of albumen which it contains. If a mass of coagulable lymph in its recent, straw- colouredj and translucent state, be immersed in alcohol, it instantly becomes shrivelled, indurated, of a white colour, and perfectly opaque ; and the same changes result from im- mersion in dilute acids or in boiling fluids. It also becomes much tougher and firmer. From this circumstance it has been denominated by the foreign authors albuminous exuda- tion. Of its soft state, when recently effused, it is of the utmost importance for the physician to be aware, in conse- quence of the fact which I have now verified several times.