MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 675 In others it spreads to the cartilages, and by inducing ul- ceration or death of these bodies, causes an insanable disease speedily fatal. In Mr Dyson's case, in which the epiglottis and upper part of the trachea were ulcerated, the os hyoides became carious, and was exfoliated dead. * In persons cut off by tubercular consumption, minute ulcers of the laryngeal and tracheal membrane are not un- frequent. They vary in size, and are irregular in shape ; but in general they appear in the form of angular or oval spots, from which the mucous membrane has been entirely removed. In the larynx of a young woman before me, I count five of these eroded spots affecting the oval shape, none of more extent than a square line, and one patch evi- dently formed by the coalescence of two, as large as the sec- tion of a split pea ; and in the tracheal membrane of the same subject, at the bronchial bifurcations, large patches of the same description are visible. In the latter situation, in- deed, this destruction is more common and more extensive than in any other point. The most frequent seat of ulcers of the larynx, according to Louis, is the junction of the vocal chords ; then the vocal chords themselves ; and lastly, the base of the arytenoid cartilages, the upper part of the larynx and the sacculi. In the trachea these ulcers occupy chiefly the posterior part. The bronchial membrane is, according to the same authority, less frequently ulcerated ; but when not so, it is almost in- variably reddened. /S. Croup (Bronchiasis albtiminosa) may be defined to be in- flammation of the tracheo-bronchial mucous membrane, ter- minating in sero-albuminous exudation. The points deserv- ing attention in the pathology of this disease, are, 1*/, the fact of inflammation ; 2d, the extent of the process; and, Sdli/, its effects. The inflamed state of the tracheo-bronchial membrane is established beyond doubt. Home observed that it was redder than natural when the concrete covering * Mem. Med. Society, Vol. iv.