790 GENERAL ANATOMT. one-half of the cases. This took place in spaces varying in size from a lentile or a bean to a five-franc piece or more. The connection of this change with inflammation is denoted by the vascularity and anormal thickness of the membranes at the adhering points. ^th, The pisiform granulations of Greding were found in not more than ^^^jth of the subjects ; a degree of rarity pro- bably dependent on the circumstance that they are in gene- ral a product of long.continued inflammation. Slh, Bloody extravasation in the arachnoid cavity, which belongs to a subsequent head, was found in about -^th of the cases. From these and similar facts, and from the cases of M. Calmeil, it results that the cerebral membranes, more espe- cially the tomentose and vascular surface of the proper membrane, (pia mater and choroid plexus,J are liable to as- sume a peculiar state of chronic inflammation, affecting more or less sometimes very considerably the convoluted and cerebral surfaces of the brain. Of this morbid change the first effects are more or less weight, uneasiness, and pain of the head; sometimes partial convulsive motions ; sometimes tetanic motions or involuntary conti'actions, ver- tigo, double vision, spectral delirium, and occasionally sud- den loss of sensation and motion. In other instances, it induces gradually deficient memory, disordered intellect, and some affection of the muscles of speech. Finally, it induces palsy, fatuity, and stupor or coma, terminating fatally. Palsy occurring under these circumstances in the insane is distinguished by peculiar characters. At first the motions of the tongue are consti'ained ; the efforts to speak are una- vailing ; articulation is impracticable ; and the individual struggles and stammers to express his desires like a person under the influence of intoxication. As this becomes intense he is observed to totter, stagger, or reel in walking, and is aware that he cannot direct the muscles of the limbs to move as he wills. At this time the derangement verges to fatuity. At a more advanced period, not only is speech obliterated