SEROUS MEMBRANE. 795 cases are recorded. In the first, by Dr Alston, three pounds of coagulated blood and bloody serum were taken from the pericardium. When the inner surface of the pericardium, and the external surface of the heart were carefully cleansed by sponges, no aperture of any of the large vessels could be discovered ; " but on pressing the heart bloody serum oozed from many small orifices on its surface, and princi- pally near its basis." * The second case, by Dr Thomson of Worcester, is similar in the quantity and kind of blood effused, and in the impossibility of ti'acing it to rupture or open vessel, t In the third case, by Mr Joseph Hooper, about five pints of fluid blood, perfectly free from coagula, were found in the pericardium, in which no vestige of rup- ture could, after the most careful examination, be found. X Lastly, in a case by Merat, two ounces of pure blood were found in the pericardium of a man of 53, who had laboured under organic lesion of the heart and consecutive dropsy. § Baillie, to whom these effusions were known, was aware of the difficulty of explaining them, and conjectures that the blood may have oozed by transudation, or escaped from the extremities of the minute vessels, which he sujjposes may be inordinately relaxed. || The last supposition, it may be re- marked, virtually admits exhalation. Hoementeria ; Peritoncemia—Peritonaeal hemorrhage is not uncommon. It occurs under two forms, the sanguinolent and the sanguine. A valuable instance of this hemorrhage, men- tioned by Morgagni, IT is that of Laelio Laelii, a medical stu- dent, a native of his own town of Imola, in whose abdomen was found about 1^ pound of fluid blood, with black spots of the peritonaeum. The best examples, however, are those recorded by Merat. In the first, there were three pints of bloody serum in the cavity, with evident marks of perito- najal inflammation. In a second, there were between two * Medical Essays and Observations, Vol. vi. p. 111. Art. Ivi. "I" Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. iv. p. 330, Art. xxvi. } Memoirs of the Medical Society, Vol. i. p, 238, Art. xviii. §■ Memoires de la Societe Mcdicale d'Emulation, Vol. vii. p. C3. II Morbid Anatomy. ^ Epist. xxxv. 2. Case of Laelio Laelii. •