606 GENERAL ANATOMY. Rose, St Anthony's fire. Erysipelas. Bleb fever, buUose fever. Pemphigus, febtis bullosa. Simple blebs, Pompholyx. Punctuate papular inflammation.—III. Cutaneous inflammations commen- cing in circumscribed or definite points of the corion, producing minute eminences. Gum, gown, red gum, tooth gum, Strophulus. Sun-rash, prickly heat. Lichen. Itchy rash. Prurigo. Punctuate desquamating inflammation—IV. Cutaneous inflammations of the outer surface of the corion, more or less circumscribed, affecting its secreting power, and producing exfoliation of the cuticle. Scaly leprosy, Lepra. Scaly tetter. Psoriasis. DandrifF, Pityriasis. Fish-skin disease. Ichthyosis. Punctuate vesicular itiflammaiion V. Cutaneous inflammations originally af- fecting the outer surface of the corion, circumscribed, definite, or punctuate, producing effiision of fluid first pellucid, afterwards slightly opaque, with elevation of cuticle, with or without further affection of the corial tissue. Miliary rash. Miliaria. Shingles, vesicular ringworm, or fret. Herpes. Heat spots, or red-fret. Eczema, Limpet shell vesicle and scab, Rupia. Cow-pox vesicle, Vaccinia. Chicken-pox, Varicella. Punctuate plilegmonous or pustular inflammation VI. Cutaneous inflam- mations originally affecting the outer surface of the corion, afterwards its substance, and producing purulent matter more or less distinct. Sraall-pox, Variola. Plague, Pestis. Malignant pustule, Persian fire, Anthracion. Itch, Scabies. Moist or running tetter. Impetigo. Scall or pustular ringworm, Porrigo. Great pox. Ecthyma. Punctuate chronic phlegmonous inflammation,—VII. Cutaneous inflamma- tions originating in the substance of the corion, sometimes at the bulbs of the hair, and terminating in partial or imperfect suppuration, with forma- tion of scales, crusts, &c. and more or less destruction of the corial tissue. Boil, Phyma, furunculus. Carbuncle, Anthrax Carbunculus. Whelk, Acne, Scalp or chin whelk. Sycosis. Canker, Lupus, noli me tangere. White scall. Vitiligo. Yaws, Framboesia, rubula. Sivvens, Sibbenia. Punctuate phlegmono-tuhercular inflammation, chronic VIII. Cutaneous inflammations, chronic, attended with general affection of the fibro-mucous tissues. Arctoic leprosy, radesyge, Lepra Norwegica. Lombard evil, pellagra. Pellagra. Scherlievo, Kalcadina, Lepra Pedemontana. Asturian itch or scab, Mai di Rosa, Lepra Asturiensis. Crim evil, Krimmische krankheit, Lepra Taurica. Arabian leprosy. Elephantiasis. Soft tubercle, Molluscum. Wart, Verruca.