772 GENERAL ANATOMY. as possible the ascertained facts which tend to establish the general conclusion,—that inordinate accumulation of serous fluid from the free surface of the diaphanous membranes is a frequent result of a process of capillary congestion, or even of inflammation. I have already stated that the serous membranes in gene- ral are understood to be the seat of a process of incessant exhalation and resorption. This may be i-egarded as de- m(jnstrated in the case of the pleura, pericardmm, peritonceum, and perididymis, by the experiments of Haller, Bichat, and others; and of the arachnoid the same is presumed from analogy. The fluid thus secreted, though in the healthy state very scanty, is distinctly albuminous. This may be regarded as demonstrated by the rude experiments even of Hewson and Bichat. The difficulty in the healthy state of obtaining a quantity sufficient for analysis led Berzelius to examine that of hydrocephalus, which he supposes makes a nearer approach to the normal condition than the others ; and of this he found 1000 parts to contain 1.66 of albu- minous matter, with salts of potass and soda, and some ani- mal matter combined with lactate of soda. * This result is confirmed by the researches of Bostock and Marcet, which show that, though some muco-extractive matter is present, albumen forms the chief part of the solid contents of the serum of the blood and the fluids of the serous membranes. Lastly, Marcet, who examined all the dropsical fluids, found that they contain coagulable matter; but that those of the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum, contain much more than the arachnoid, and that of hydrocele most of all. t The inordinate augmentation of these fluids varies in de- gree, from a few ounces to several pints; and it varies ac- cording to the site of the membrane from which it is effused. Thus the fluid secreted by the arachnoid membrane may not amount to above half an ounce, or at most to two or three • General Views of the Composition of Animal Fluids. By J. Berzelius, M. D. &c. Med. Chir. Transactions, Vol. iii. 251. t Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. ii. p. 381.