SKIN. 611 seen and daily see instances of strophulus, in which the papu- lar eruption can neither in form nor distribution be traced to the cutaneous papillae; that the eruption of lichen in adults appears in situations in which the papillae are few, as regu- larly and abundantly as in those in which they are nume- rous ; and that we meet with local examples of papular erup- tion in which it is difficult to suppose the disease to be an affection of the papillae of one region of the skin only. For these reasons it may be justly doubted whether in all instan- ces papular eruptions consist in inflammation of the papillae. Of the anatomical characters of pimples, little is accu- rately known. They are not diseases necessarily fatal; and when death takes place during their presence, their distinc- tive characters are either much changed, or entirely gone before the anatomist can inspect them. In some instances of strophulus in infants cut oft" by other diseases, I have seen the corion rough and slightly raised in irregular spots, which were the seat of closely-set pimples during Ufe. d. Cutaneous injlantmation of the outer surface of the co- rion, more or less circumscribed, affecting its secreting power, and thus producing first, exfoliation of the scarf-skin, after- wards vitiated scarf-skin. Though the scarf-skin (cuticula, epidermis,) and nails are incapable of injection, and are therefore believed to be inorganic, the former is remarked to be more sensible when thin and semitransparent, than when thick and opaque, which it may be in certain regions. It is also observed, that when it is removed by a blister, or the effect of a scald, the sur- face of the corion, when it ceases to discharge the sero-albu-s minous fluid already noticed, becomes covered by a thin pel- licle of transparent membrane, so delicate, that it affords very little defence to the'subjacent skin. This same transparent pellicle is observed in the skinning or cicatrization, as it is named, of cutaneous wounds. If, under these circumstances, the formation of this pellicle be observed, it will be found that it is deposited from the outer or cuticular surface of the corion, like a secreted substance in a viscid or semifluid