SEROUS MEMBRANE. 781 purulent or albuminous exudation between the bladder and uterus, and the uterus and rectum. In one of the latest cases of this disease which I had occasion to inspect, and the morbid parts of which I preserve, the peritonfeal cover- ing of each ovary was inclosed in a layer of albuminous exu- dation. In this the fimbriated extremities of the oviferous tubes were imbedded; and in that of the right side the ad- hesion was tolerably firm. The usual blood-spots indicating organization were distinct. Between the uterus and rectum was an extensive albuminous exudation, forming a cyst con- taining purulent fluid ; and a smaller one of the same kind was found between the uterine and vesical peritonaeum. In more severe cases the inflammatory process spreads over the intestinal peritonaeum, and produces its usual effects. Sup- puration not unfrequently takes place in the veins of the womb ; but whether it be a necessary or accidental compli- cation I cannot say. I have seen it in about four or five among 18 or 20 cases. The commencement of this disease in the uterine and ovarian peritonaeum is not wonderful, when the extraordinary distension of that membrane during the latter months of pregnancy is considered. Denman re- marks that there are not wanting instances in which it has been evidently forming before delivery, or during labour; Joseph Clarke states that he saw reason to date the com- mencement of several cases from before delivery, and refers to two in which this conclusion was justified by the speedy extinction of life after labour, and the appearances on in- spection, (44-) ; and Hey refers to two cases, one fatal, in which symptoms appeared previous to delivery. These in- ferences I have now had occasion to verify more than once; and not many weeks ago I had occasion to detract in two days fifty ounces of blood with corresponding antiphlogistic measures, to check incipient symptoms of peritonaeal inflam- mation in a lady during the latter part of pregnancy. Tabes mesenterica ; Marasmus—-A species of chronic peri- lonitis, giving rise in children to the symptoms of this dis- ease, is described by Dr George Gregory. Its anatomical characters are much the same as in the ordinary instances of