MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 733 miscible with water, which it renders turbid, is indurated by- immersion in alcohol,—a circumstance from which it may be inferred to contain a proportion of albuminous matter. It emits a fetid offensive smell, and communicates the same to the organ from which it grows. It is chiefly a disease of advanced life,—a circumstance by which, with others, it may be distinguished from hematoid fungus. The fleshy or sarcoid tubercle of the uterus, though ap- parently not unknown to Morgagni, was first observed by William Hunter, and has since been distinctly described by Dr John Clarke, Dr Baillie, * and Mr C. M. Clarke.t Ac- cording to the accounts of these observers, it appears in the form of one or more tumours of hard whitish substance, sometimes as firm as cartilage, projecting from the mucous surface of the organ, but occasionally growing between the peritonaeal coat and muscular layer. In size they vary from that of a pea to masses of several pounds; and in shape, though generally spheroidal, they are sometimes irregular. They cause a copious mucous discharge and much local irri- tation, but without much affecting the constitution. The cauliflower excrescence was also first accurately de- scribed by Dr John Clarke; J and his description has been since verified by his brother Mr C. Mansfield Clarke. From the observations of these authors, it results that the cauli- flower excrescence arises always from some part of the os uteri. When first recognized it forms an irregular promi- nence, with a broad base and a granulated surface. As the tumour increases in size, the granulated structui-e of its sur- face becomes more distinct, and begins to be parted into numerous elongated granules, which give it the appearance of a cauliflower when it begins to run to seed. In most in- stances these granules are friable and brittle, and break off, if rudely handled, in the form of minute white fragments; and indeed such fragments are occasionally or periodically * Morbid Anatomy, chap. xix. p. 374. ■J" Observations on the Diseases of Females, part i. chap, xviii. p. 243. t Transactions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 298.