GENERAL ANATOMY. 760 At the same time, red vessels may appear either in isolat- ed spots or over a considerable extent. They are generally arborescent or parted into minute ramifications. Sometimes they consist of minute red lines, radiating from a point like stars; and in other instances they form a confused net-work of red vessels, interspersed with bloody points and spots, amounting occasionally to extravasation. These vessels which, though placed in the substance of the membranes, gradually approach the surface as the process advances, are not newly developed, but appear to be the colourless capillaries of the sound state of the membranes injected with red blood. These changes, which may be regarded as the essence of the first stage of inflammation in serous membranes, are best observed in the pleura, pericardium, and peritonaeum. In these they are sometimes so intense and general as to give the membranes a red mottled appearance, and prevent the observer from distinguishing the subjacent tissue. After existing for some time, varying in different circum- stances (from 6 to 20 hours in the pleura and peritonceum,') these changes are followed by others, which may be regard- ed as their effects. The first and most important of these is the formation of a new fluid at the free or unadherent surface of the membrane. The nature of this fluid varies according to the stage, and perhaps the kind of inflammation. I shall describe, first, that which takes place in the com- mencement of the acute form. The capillary injection of the inflammatory process is scarcely well established when it begins to cause a semi- transparent fluid to ooze in small quantity from the affec- ted points of the surface of these membranes. In this state the characters of the fluid can scarcely be determin- ed. In a more advanced stage of the process, when it is abundant, it is a straw-coloured, homogeneous, semi- transparent fluid, which, as it is effused, undergoes spon- taneous coagulation. This consists in part of the fluid as- suming a solid form in the shape of a semifluid jelly-like layer of variable thickness, with a rough honey-comb sur-«