GENERAL ANATOMY. 632! it gives rise, and the imperfect and tardy suppuration with formation of sloughs, and the perforated appearance of the skin. Of the same nature are the inflammatory tumours termed Epinyctis and Terminthus mentioned by all authors almost from Celsus to Wiseman. Though in this place I notice carbuncle as an example of spreading inflammation of the substance of the corion, yet the question of its precise seat is not free from ambiguity. Hunter believed it to begin in the skin, and going deeper to affect principally the cellular membrane, of which it caused mortification ; and with this Pearson agrees. Boyer places it in the teguments and subcutaneous cellular tissue ; while Monteggia, who repeats the fact that it destroys a considerable portion of the teguments and cellular sub- stance down to the muscles, seems to regard it as a peculiar action affecting several tissues simultaneously and succes- sively. The statement of Hunter I was at one time disposed to regard as exhibiting a just view of the pathology of car- buncle, and to think that Willan laboured under a mistake in referring the seat of carbuncle to the skin. From observ- ing the progress of several cai'buncles from their origin to their termination, and from cutting them open more than once and examining their morbid relations as carefully as it is possible to do in the living body, I am satisfied that the opinion of Hunter is not correct, and that that of Willan is not altogether wrong. In several carbuncles which I have observed from the beginning, the inflammatory action commenced in the skin in the form of a hard knotty pustule; a circumstance which corresponds with the admission of Hunter. If cut open at this time, which may be done not only with safety, but with benefit, the corion is found to be thicker than natural, much redder, and more vascular; and these marks of inflammation pervade not only the substance of the corion to a considerable extent, but the subcutaneous cellular membrane in a slighter degree. This inflammation