MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 699 nent ring, inclosing a depressed space corresponding to the centre of the sore, and which about the same time acquires a reticular appearance from intersecting filaments of lymph, among which may be seen minute red vessels. As the pro- cess advances, these filaments, by acquiring solidity and strength, seem to draw the mucous membrane forming the edges to the centre of the ulcer, while the elevated ring be- comes flattened. At length, the lymphy deposition being covered by a thin pellicle newly formed completes the cica- trix. When the ulcerated spots are examined in this state, the ragged edges of mucous membrane are found to be mutu- ally approximated ; and the peritonaeum at the same time to be puckered or drawn together, appearing as if a small por- tion of the intestine had been taken by the forceps and tied by a ligature. This shows that the process of repair consists not in the mucous corion being reproduced, but in the op- posite margins of its breach making as it were an effort to approach by means of the lymphy exudation from the peri- tonaeum, which was thus necessarily contracted. s. Pustulo-tuhercular eminences.—I am not aware that the circumstances on which the formation of hard pustules or tubercles of the colic mucous membrane depends, have been investigated or determined. Is this membrane liable to a peculiar pustular or pustulo-tubercular inflammation i That they do not occur in all forms of colic inflammation is proved by the fact, that they were not seen in the camp dysentery of 1743, and but rarely in the tropical dysentery of the east; while they were observed in every case of the London dy- sentery. Dr John Hunter, who saw them in all the dysen- teric inspections which he performed in Jamaica, describes them as true pustules, though they contain no purulent mat- ter ; and represents them as seated beneath the villous coat or the submucous tissue. Each pustule, though at first small, round, and reddish, not more than the one-tenth of an inch in diameter, gradually enlarges till it attains the diameter of one-fourth of an inch, becoming at the same time paler. In this stage a minute crack or fissure appears at the top, and gradually enlarges, when the contents of the pustule are