773 SEROUS MEMBRANE. ounces, which is to be regarded as a great quantity. In some recorded instances it is said rather vaguely to amount to six. The fluid secreted by the pericardium may not be above one ounce, rarely exceeds two or three, and in a few instances only amounts to six, eight, or ten. In the pleura, on the contrary, it may amount to three, foui", or five pints or quarts ; and in the peritonaeum has been known to amount to several gallons. The quality of this fluid varies. That of the arachnoid is limpid and colourless, like clear water, with a slight saline taste, and contains traces of albumen. In the pericardium it is light-coloured and semitransparent. In the pleura it may be straw-yellow and semitransparent, but is more fre- quently reddish, or brown and something opaque. In the peritonaeum it is semitransparent, yellow, or greenish, some- times with various shades of red or even brownish, like cho- colate or coffee. In each of the three last cases it is invaria- bly combined with albuminous matter. The hypothesis of Cullen, who ascribes this inordinate ac- cumulation to any cause which increases exhalation or di- minishes absorption, though plausible, is too general, and does not comprehend all the facts of the case. One of the most uniform and powerful agents in augmenting exhalation from serous surfaces is that state of the capillaries in which they are injected, distended in such a manner as to constitute congestion or even inflammation. The influence of this cause appears to have been first well understood by Cruickshank,* * " The second species of dropsy is very common, and is that which arises in consequence of previous inflammation of a cavity; and may take place in any habit of body. If an inflammation arise in a cavity it may ter- minate in a number of different ways ; one of these is by increased secretion of fluid of surfaces. A man receives a blow on the testicle, inflammation takes place, and the consequence is frequently a hydrocele or dropsy of the tunica vaginalis. A child's brain inflames, and this inflammation ends at last in hydrocephalus, or collection of water in the brain. Pleurisy frequent- ly terminates in hydrothorax, or collection of water in the chest. I have of- ten taken away forty or sixty pints of water, which had accumulated in the cavity of the abdomen in the few days the peritoneal inflammation had last-