MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 705 however, facts are something discordant. 1. In Mr Hea- viside's museum is a preparation demonstrating the appear- ance of numerous genuine pustules of the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, and half way down the oesophagus. * In one subject, in like manner, Wrisberg counted 14 distinct pustules on the palatine arch, on the posterior and inferior part of the velum more than 12, and many in the neighbourhood of the epiglottis, and in the upper part of the pharynx, but observ- ed general redness only in the rest of the oesophagus. In ano- ther subject he observed on the mucous surface of the larynx and trachea, a crop of singular warty eminences, varying in size from a lentil to a grain of hemp seed, round or oblong in shape. These bodies Wrisberg states he took care to distin- guish from inflamed mucous follicles, t Sir Gilbert Blane, to the same effect, records an instance of fatal confluent small pox, in which the whole mucous surface of the oeso- phagus, stomach, duodenum, and intestines, to the rectum, was found beset with small round ulcerated spots. These were most crowded in the duodenum, and in the colon. They were dark-coloured in the centre like cutaneous pustules. In the same subject, the raucous membrane of the trachea and bronchia was occupied with similar ulcerated spots. J 2. Notwithstanding these facts, however, which are accurately stated, it is not absolutely certain that genuine phlyctidia have even been seen in the stomach or intestinal membrane. The papillae and pustule-like eruptions which are supposed by some to be of this nature are evidently enlargements of the mucous follicles. 3. The variolous poison certainly produces inflammation of the gastro-enteric mucous membrane; but this consists in diffuse redness and injection, or red-brown patches, or both, generally with some aflfection of the mucous " Howship, Observations, p. 253. -(• Henrici Augusti Wrisbergii, D. M. &c. Commentationum, Medici, Physiolog. &c. Argumenti. Vol. i. Gottingae, 1800. P. 52, &c. X Some Facts and Observations, &c. by Gilbert Blane, M. D. Transac- tions of a Society, Vol. iii. p. 425. Y y