678 GENERAL ANATOMY. hemorrhage, they appear to be formed by the coagulation of blood not discharged at the time of hemorrhage. y. Bronchial inflammation, acute and chronic. Bronchiasis puriformis ; Bronchitis.—The pathology of this disease, though understood by Morgagni, De Haen, and Stoll, has been more fully illustrated by the researches of Chevalier, Badham, Abercrombie, Hastings, and Laennec. Dissections of per- sons cut off in different stages of the disease show that the bronchial membrane is much reddened and injected, villous or pulpy, and thickened or swelled. As the disease proceeds, it discharges viscid puriform mucus, or muco-purulent fluid, which fills the air-cells or vesicles, and prevents the lungs from collapsing when the chest is opened. The tracheal membrane may be reddened or traversed by arborescent red lines; and though the bronchial membrane is in general en- tire, in some instances small ulcerated breaches are observed in various parts. In the chronic form, the membrane, though red and villous, is rarely so much swelled as in the acute dis- ease ; but minute ulcers or patches of ulceration are more common. The effect of this process in the bronchial membrane is to augment the quantity and change the quality of the fluid se- creted in the natural state. At the commencement of the process, the bluish, semitransparent, and particled mucus of health is mixed with mucilaginous, semitransparent, and gray- ish fluid, not unlike white of egg, which is secreted in consi- derable quantity. As the process advances, it becomes thick- er, more viscid and opaque, and sinks in water; and when fully established, this viscid mucus is either mingled with, or converted into yellowish opaque fluid, which cannot be distinguished from purulent matter, and which is genei-ally more or less streaked with blood. These changes may be effected without breach of continuity or ulceration of the membrane. This fact, which was first established by De Haen, * has since been fully confirmed by Willan, t Bad- * Rationis Medendi, i. xi. p. 00. f Reports, 179C, 20th Matcli, 3