639 SKIN. The time at which the fungous granulation rises is irregu- lar. Thomson met with it so early as one month and so late as three after the first appearance of the eruption ; and he concludes that its formation cannot be taken as a mark of the second stage of the disease, as was thought by Adams.* Each pustule, as it attains a certain size, undergoes the same process. After remaining some time the yaw gradually contracts, diminishes in height, and, as the pustule heals, is finally covered by skin. It leaves in general no mark ex- cept in those places in which inflammation has been violent, when a scar similar to that of cow-pock, but broader and more superficial, is left. This description shows not only that yaws are an inflamma- tory disease of the skin, but that they are not, strictly speak- ing, an example of tubercular disease of that membrane, as in the aiTangement of Willan is erroneously represented. The phenomena show that they consist in an inflammatory process of the corion commencing in minute points, and gradually spreading in extent and penetrating in depth, till it gene- rates a peculiar morbid product, which, after undergoing cer- tain changes, is at length spontaneously removed, and allows the sore to heal. Thomson justly remarks, that the disease is first papular, then pustular, and afterwards consists of yaw, though the latter is not constant, as the ulcer may heal with- out this substance; when it must be accounted pustular. At no period does it appear to be tubercular; for the yawey growth to which alone this term can be applied is rather an effect of the pustular or chronic corial inflammation modified by the proper yawey action. It may, in short, be inferred, that when the yawey action is sufficient without being ex- cessive, it generates the proper fungous growths, under which the corion is either not materially injured or is regenerated; if the action be too violent, this growth is either destroyed or prevented from appearing ; and in either case the corion is irreparably injured. Sivvens, though a disease affecting not only the skin, but the fibro-mucous membranes, is entitled tonotice in this place, • Morbid Poisons, p. 201.