621 SKIN. The achor differs not much from the psydracium. It ap- pears in the form of a minute pointed elevation, of a yellow- colour, and succeeded by a thin brown or yellowish scab. It contains straw-coloured matter of the appearance and consistence of strained honey ; it is suri'ounded with little in- flammatory redness, and seems to affect the corion as little as the psydracium. In ordinary circumstances it leaves no scar. Thefavus may be esteemed the next degree of inflamma- tion of this tissue. It is larger and flatter than the last- mentioned pustule, not pointed, and contains a more viscid matter than the achor. It is surrounded by a slight-red, ir- regular, marginal ring, indicating a more considerable affec- tion of the corial tissue. It is succeeded by a yellow, semi- transparent, and sometimes cellular scab, like honeycomb. A form of pustule referable neither to these, nor to that which is to follow, I must here mention,—the phlyclidimn or genuine small-pox pustule. It consists in a circular or annular spot of inflammation of the corion, encircled by a red ring or zone, which is observed to consist of the outer corial surface highly vascular and elevated. Within this sup- puration takes place. Though the iMijclicUum is observed spontaneously in the distinct small-pox, it is also produced artificially by friction of tartar-emetic ointment. The phli/zacium is the most perfect example of the most violent degree of this form of cutaneous inflammation. It is described as a large pustule, raised on a hard circular base, of a lively red colour, and succeeded by a thick, hard, dark- coloured scab. It is generally slow in progress, and, com- mencing at once on the surface and in the substance of the corion, is attended with considerable suri'ounding inflamma- tion ; and the suppurative process which follows is always accompanied with more or less destruction of the corial tis- sue. It often leaves a hollow scar. The surroimding red- ness, hardness, and elevation ; the slow progress and some- times tedious suppuration ; and lastly, the loss of corial sub- stance, are the circumstances which indicate the peculiar seat of this form of cutaneous inflammation.