679 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. ham, * George Pearson, t and Hastings. X It is attended with hectic fever and wasting. Though ulcers, however, are not essential to chronic in- flammation of the bronchial membrane, they may occur, and are most common in the lungs of those whose occupation exposes them to inhalation of irritating mechanical powders. Such, for example, has dissection shown to be the state of the bronchial membrane in stone-cutters, § glass-grinders, needle-grinders, and leather-dressers. Pustular InJJammaiion.—On the nature of a form of ulcer considerably different we have less certain information. In several cases of bronchial disease, the membrane becomes the seat of numerous minute eminences, which, as they may be traced through the stages of inflammation, suppuration, and ulceration, may be regarded as pustules of the pulmonic mu- cous membrane. The ulcers thus formed are in general round or oval, rarely irregular, with margin slightly raised, and sur- rounded by a red circle Careola,) more or less distinct. The matter expectorated consists of purulent fluid, streaked with blood, and mingled with a considerable proportion of dense mucus. The analogy between this and certain ulcers of the intestinal mucous mevnbrane is obvious. It gives rise to wasting and hectic fever. Induration, Consolidation.—When chronic inflammation subsists long, the inflammatory action extends to the submu- cous filamentous tissue, which unites the bronchial tubes and vessels to the serous membrane of the lungs—the parenchy- matous or cellular tissue of the older anatomists. Of this the first effect is redness, with vascular injection of the sub- mucous tissue (infm-ctio.) As the morbid state of the blood- vessels continues or increases, sero-albuminous fluid is effus- ed into its interstices; the part loses its natural softness and • Observations on the Inflaiiamatory Affections of the Mucous Membrane of the BronchitE, &c. pp. 48—76 t Phil. Trans. 1809, Part ii. p. 316—321. t Treatise on Inflammation of the Mucous Membrane, &c. § Johnstone of Worcester, Mem. Med. Society.