607 SKIN. a. Cutaneous injlammations seated in the outer or culicu- lar surface of the corion, and generally spreading along it. —Inflammation of the outer surface of the corion may be diffuse and continuous, as in scarlet fever, diffuse and inter- rupted, as in common rash (erythema,') nettle-rash, and rose rash, or diffuse and of determinate figure, as in measles. The redness with which superficial cutaneous inflammation is at- tended varies. Though it disappears on pressure it returns immediately. In scarlet fever, though its tint is indicated by the name, it often has a shade of brown; in erythema, or simple rash, it is rarely so vivid as in other forms of cuta- neous inflammation; in rose it has a tinge of yellow. In measles it assumes the shape of crescentic or lunular patches. In simple rash it terminates gradually in the sound skin; but in one variety of this rash (erythema marginatum,') and in rose it is marked by a distinctly circumscribed edge, or is said to be marginate. The swelling of superficial cutaneous inflammation is rather a general distension than obvious elevation. When it is obvious to the eye, or felt by the finger, and is at the same time confined to definite red pat- ches, these are named wheals. A familiar instance of this occurs in the effect produced by the bite of several insects, the blow of a whip, or the stinging of nettles. Spontaneously it is seen in the disease named nettle-rash. In rose, eleva- tion, extensive and continuous, conterminous with the red- ness, and like it bounded by a distinctly circumscribed edge, is uniformly observed. Superficial cutaneous inflammation being seated in the extensive vascular net-work, (j-ete vasculosum, reseau vascu- laire,) of the corion, always destroys to a greater or less ex- tent its scarf-skin, which comes away in small portions or scales, sometimes in larger pieces, while a new but thinner and more transparent scarf-skin is formed. The process by which these changes are effected is termed desquamation, and is observed in measles, scarlet fever, nettle-rash, rose- rash, common rash, and rose when it does not proceed to the formation of blebs. As the process thus defined forms a good mode of distinguishing its varieties when seated in 3