796 GENERAL ANATOMY. and three pints, and the membi'ane was covered with nu- merous granulations. In a third case, in which death took place 47 days after the first symptoms, upon inspection there were found about twenty pints, of a fluid, first sanguino- lent, then like pure blood, and lastly some clots. The marks of inflammation were so intense as to leave few traces of the original form of the abdominal viscera. * Hcematorchis.—Of hemorrhage from the vaginal coat, Bichat states that he met with two instances only ; and Merat acknowledges that he has not yet seen them. On some occasions this hemorrhage lays the foundation of the bloody tumour (hceinatoma,) occasionally found in the va- ginal coat. From the facts recorded it results that these hemorrha- ges, like those of the mucous tissue, are the result of exha- lation. Bichat states, that after scrupulous examination of the inner surface of the pleura, pericardium, and j)eritonceum, under these hemorrhages, he found the surface entire, and the vessels unbroken. There is every reason to believe that they are in all cases preceded by congestion of the ca- pillaries ; for most of those which are hitherto accurately re- corded were connected with marks of inflammation, and some with organic lesion. I have yet to observe, that the serous membranes are liable to become simultaneously the seat of hemorrhage in land-scurvy and in sea-scurvy. In the former disease, these membranes have been found occupied not only by pete- chial spots and dark or livid blotches, but with consider- able effusion of fluid blood. Of this, the cases of Dr Dun- can Junior and Mr William Wood are the best examples. In extreme cases of scurvy the same extravasation takes place. 3- Of anormal accumulation of serous fluid in the serous membranes I have nothing to add to what is already said in the chapter on the exhalants. These accumulations may al- most invariably be traced to disease of the contained organs. 4. Air is not unfrequently effused into cavities formed " Memoires de la Societe Medicale d'Emulation, Tom. vii. p. G5.