NOTES. 815 amples of necrosis; and it is manifest, from the language of surgeons at that time, and for many subsequent years, that this mistake was general. The truth is, that the distinctive nature of necrosis was not understood till the researches of David and Troja directed the attention of surgeons to the subject; and it was left to Wiedmann to fix the exact meaning of the term. The denomination of sjmia veniosa is still very vaguely used. I have attempted to fix it in the text ; and I think, if the conditions which I specify be ob- served, it will be at least more easy to understand it exact- ly. It is important to observe that the very same process which causes necrosis in the compact osseous texture of the diaphyses may produce spina ventosa in the looser cancellat- ed structure of the epiphyses ; and that the difference de- pends chiefly on the anatomical arrangement and configura- tion of the filaraento-vascular medullary tissue. Spina ventosa ought on no account to be confounded with cancer of bone. Note O—P. 598. I do not state the details of Gaultier and Dutrochet in the text, because they still require confirmation. Their minute distinctions of the outer surface of the skin are in a great de- gree anticipated by Cruickshank. The description of this anatomist, though not very distinct, deserves to be known. " Was I to describe the different membranes which lie on the surface of the true skin, I should now say they were five, each of which I conceive is a cuticle, or an incipient cuticle. " The three first are evidently cuticles, and the two last, most probably, are forming into cuticle, and, like the second and third, are to succeed the first, which is perpetually fall- ing off in small portions like scales,—the only circumstance which seems to favour Lewenhoek's doctrine, that the cuticle is formed of scales. " If I am still not perfectly understood respecting these five membranes, I repeat that cviticle, commonly so called, makes the first; the rele mucosum is double, and makes the second and third; the first vascular membrane in which the small-pox pustules are chiefly seated makes the