779 SEROUS MEMBRANE. 3d, Ulceration may take place at one or more points of the muscular or intestinal peritonaeum, by a process, the mechanism of which has been already explained. The first is most common, and may be so extensive and complete as to destroy the whole membrane on the fore part of the ab- domen, and expose the transverse and straight muscles as distinctly as if they were cleanly dissected, and leave the ten- dons of the lateral muscles in rags, partly gone, partly in the form of slough. At the same time, the intestines are co- vered with a coat of lymph, which is believed by Hunter to prevent the matter from irritating, and producing ulcerative inflammation of the bowels, and from difiusing itself over the abdominal cavity. * Its chief use is to prevent inflam- mation of the subserous tissue. The rarity of the latter, which is well established, is as- cribed by Hunter to the indisposition to ulceration manifest- ed by the intestinal peritonaeum, t It is the express testi- mony of Baillie, that he " did not recollect to have seen one instance in which the ulcer had begun on the outer or peri- tonaeal surface of the intestines, and had spread inwards." To show that this termination, though uncommon, is not un- known, I mention, that of ] 6 cases of chronic peritonaeal in- flammation reported by Broussais, in one only did perfora- tion of the intestines take place ; J and that in the case of Willan above alluded to, the colon was superficially ulcera- ted in several places. In the sero-purulent and purulent collections, which are the result of peritonaeal inflammation in puerperal females, after it has passed the acute stage, a peculiar mode of ter- mination is not unfrequently observed in an opening taking place spontaneously generally at the navel, and allowing the " On the Blood, &c. Part ii. Chap. vi. Sect, vi, p. 4C1, and Sect. ix. p. 467. ■j- " If the disposition for ulceration was equal on every side of the ab- scess, it must open into the intestine, which is seldom the case, although it sometimes does." P. 23C. { Phlegmasies Chroniques, Section ii. Chap. iv. Obs. Iv. p. 480.