MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 715 and those conversant with the management of female disor- ders. It may be stated as a well established fact, that these membranous productions are analogous to those which I have above shown are secreted by other mucous surfaces; and that their formation is connected with an inflammatory state of the uterine mucous membrane. Independent of the fact, that their formation is attended with pain of the uterine region and disturbed function, in some favourable instances in which inspection has taken place, the transition from fluid to solid state has been traced, and the congested state of the uterine vessels demonstrated. In sundry instances, never- theless, these membranous productions are formed by that action of the vessels which constitutes menstruation, and they are formed chiefly at the menstrual periods. In all cases, their formation implies a state of the uterus incompatible with impregnation ; and sterility is the accompaniment of this disease. It has been observed by Baillie, that the vagina is liable to a violent form of inflammation, which, by producing ef- fusion of lymph, causes nmtual adhesion of the sides of the canal.* By Howship, this is ascribed to excoriation between the labia causing at an early age effusion of lymph, so as to resemble aphthce ; and he mentions an instance in a child of two months, in which lymph had been secreted, and had become vascular, leaving a minute aperture for the urine at the inferior angle of the vagina, t If these two forms of in- flammation be different, the latter is probably of the same nature as that now to be mentioned. Sloughing inflammation of mucous surfaces.—To this head I refer two varieties of disease met with, particularly at the communication of the two great mucous surfaces with the skin. The first is the disease originally described by Hoffmann and Van Swieten under the name of cancrumoris, the water- canker of Dr Robert Hamilton of Lynn Regis, % and more * Morbid Anatomy, Chap, xxii, p. 415. -j- Practical Observations, &c. Chap vi. p. 300. X Apud On the Marsh Hemittcnt Fever, &c. Lend. 1801.