680 GENERAL ANATOMY. elasticity; and as the process extends the lung loses the spongy lightness which depends on permeability of its vesi- cles. In a lung in which the chronic inflammation of the submucous tissue has subsisted for some time, the following phenomena ai'e recognized :—1st, On opening the chest and admitting the air, though there are no adhesions, the lung col- lapses imperfectly or not at all; 2d, The pulmonic tissue surrounding a portion of inflamed membrane becomes hard and dense, and floats deep or sinks in water; 3d, Deprived of its elasticity and compressibility, it cannot be inflated, does not crepitate, and resembles a portion of solid flesh. In such circumstances bronchial inflammation is complicated with jmeumofiia. A variety of chronic bronchial inflammation, important from its close resemblance to consumption, is that occasioned by the presence of foreign bodies which have dropped acci- dentally into the windpipe. Of this species of disease three cases are recorded; one by Dr Lettsom of the foil of a but- ton having dropped into the trachea of a boy ;* another by Dr Mervin Nooth of a leaden shot which slipped in to his own windpipe without his consciousness, while swallowing a glass of wine; f and a third by Mr Howship of an inch nail which had fallen into that tube. J In each of these cases the usual symptoms of chronic, bronchial, and even of pulmonary inflammation were induced; and purulent expectoration with occasional hemoptysis, and hectic and great wasting, threaten- ed certain death. In each, however, after a lapse of years, the foreign body was rejected by coughing when least expected, and recovery eventually took place. Though this favoura- ble issue prevents the pathologist from ascertaining with cer- tainty the exact nature and extent of the lesion, it is not, I conceive, unreasonable to infer, that the bronchial membrane certainly, and probably the pulmonic tissue, were maintain- • Memoirs of the Life and Writings of the late J. C. Lettsom, M. D. &c. By T. J. Pettigrew, F. L. S. &c. London, 1817. Vol. iii. p. 82. Art. xiii. ■\ Transactions of a Society, &c. Vol. iii. p. 1. t Practical Observations in Surgery and Morbid Anatomy, &c. p. 222.