684 GENEIIAJ. ANATOMY. swellings of the mucous glands^ which are most abundant in the situations in which it is seen. Gasteria Diuturna.—Chronic inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane is much more frequent than is imagined. The process is in general confined to one or two small spots, which are slightly red, often brown or reddish browUj roughs villous, and firmer than natural. Of these appearances the most constant is the rough villous aspect and firm consis- tence, which are at once recognized by drawing the finger over the part. The inflammation does not spread, but gra- dually penetrates to the submucous filamentous tissue which is exposed, and the formation of an ulcer or ulcers, such as are described by Morgagni, * Portal t, Baillie %, Louis, § Annesley, || and Armstrong. % The most usual appear- ance of these ulcers is that of depressed breaches in the con- tinuity of the mucous membrane, with a rough, brown co- loured surface, variable in size, but generally small, affecting an irregularly round or oval shape, sometimes angular, and with edges smooth, but sharp and accurately marked. This character, which is that of a piece of the membrane com- pletely cut or scooped out, is certainly derived from the pe- culiar properties of the mucous corion, which seems in ulceration to undergo a gradual process of absorption. When the first minute perceptible point of ulceration is formed, the edges are destroyed or absorbed in the same gradual manner, and thus the ulcer is enlarged. The edges are in general some shade of crimson or reddish brown, ow- ing to injected capillaries of the corion; but in other in- stances the colour does not differ from that of the adjoining surface. Ulceration affecting the mucous follicles of the stomach is somewhat different. The surface of the swelled follicle be- gins to be perforated by innumerable minute reddish points, * Epist. xxix. 14, 15, 20. f Anatomie Medicale, Tome v. p. 198. t Morbid Anatomy, p. 141, 142. § Louis ibid. II Researches into the Causes, Nature, and Treatment, &c. Vol. i. p. 251. t The Morbid Anatomy of the Bowels, Liver, and Stomach, Fascicu- lus 2. Plate 6th, p. 52.