GENERAL ANATOMY, 728 A good example of polypus of the rectum is recorded by Dr Monro tertius. * In the bladder they are mentioned by War- nei', Baillie, and Walter. Instances of uterhie polypus, Ccer- cosis, Plenck,) are recorded by Mauriceau, Lamotte, Morgag- ni, Lieutaiid, Levret, Sabatier, Baudelocque, Denman, and Clarke. From these it results, that though polypus occa- sionally originates from the mucous membrane of the fundus, it more frequently grows from the inside of the neck, or from the os tincce itself. Upon the nature or the mode of developement of this variety of polypus nothing satisfactory is known. It appears to consist in deposition of matter en- tirely new, either in the raucous corion, or in the submucous filamentous tissue. The tumour is almost invariably covered by a thin pellicle similar to mucous membrane, but much more vascular. It appears, on the whole, to be much of the nature of vascular sarcoma occurring in other textures. It is generally vascular, often traversed by varicose veins, is liable to frequent hemorrhage, and occasionally degenerates into destructive ulceration. It ought not, however, to be confounded with cancer. 3. The name of polypus is also given to abroad, sometimes flat, hard tumour, taking place in the nasal mucous mem- brane, and peculiar apparently to this region. It is gene- rally of a reddish or brown colour, harder even than the fleshy polypus, smooth on the surface, and presenting the appearance of mucous membrane. From several examples of this disease which I have had an opportunity of examining, I infer that it depends on some anormal developement of the fibro-mucous covering of the spongy or nasal bones. It af- fects not the mucous membrane only, but the subjacent peri- osteum, and adheres firmly to the bones, fragments of which are not unfrequently rent oif in the attempt to extract this polypus. It has a tendency to induce inflammation and ca- ries of the bones, but does not appear to possess much ma- lignant tendency of itself. Upon the whole, this variety, though commonly denominated polypus, is in truth a tumour of the periosteum partaking of the polypous character. • Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, p. 1.92.