793 SEROUS MEMBUANE. brain. * He does not specify, however, whether the blood was beneath the pin mater or above it. If it was above, it belongs to the following head. Hemorrhage from the free surface of the arachnoid mem- brane is more common. It may take place either from that which lines the dura mater, and covers the pia mater, when it is fomid between these two membranes; or from the arach- noid of the choroid plexus, when it is found in the ventri- cles. Of the former, a good instance is given by Haslam, who found this the cause of sudden death in the person of a maniac. The same change was found by Bayle in about |th of the cases of persons cut off by symptoms of chronic meningitis. The cases of Drs Hunter and Barlow are al- ready mentioned. Effusion from the interior arachnoid is more frequent; and cases may be found in the writings of most collectors. Of this nature are the following. The case of the chamberlain of the monastery of Rheinau, near SchafF- hausen, recorded by Wepfer; t several described by Mor- gagni, e. g. the case of Cardinal Sanvitali; and those in the 13th, 15th, l7th, 19th, and 22d sections of his second epistle ; the cases of Antonio Tita, Pietro Facciolati, and the Danish ambassador in his third epistle, and one or two in the six- tieth ; the case related by Veratti in the Bologna Me- moirs ; % the case by De Haen, called rupture of the choroid plexus; § the 48th of Rochoux ; || the 4th, Sth, and 12th cases of Cheyne; ^ one or two cases by Merat ; '** and the 20th and 21st cases of Serres. tt In all these cases, blood or bloody fluid was found in the ventricles ; and since it was not connected, as in the ordinary instances of this with rup- ture or injury of the cerebral substance, and consequently had not penetrated, as I have formerly shown, from the sub- * Researches, Patliologicd and Practical. -)• Historia Apoplecticorum. X Comment Bonon. Tom. ii. Chap. i. § Rat. Med. Parsiv. cap. v. p. II Recherches sur I'Apoplexie. ^ Cases of Apoplexy and Lethargy. Lond. 1812. *• Memoires de la Societe Medicale d'Emulation, Tonic vii. p. CL •ff Annuaire Medico-Chiriirgicalc, &c.