642 GENERAL ANATOMY. characters as ;\ morbid state of the skin. The case described so well by the last of these observers, I had repeated oppor- tunities of seeing; and the appearance of the skin could leave no doubt of the disease affecting the substance of the corion. The exact nature of this affection is perhaps less easily determined. By calling it a tubercular eruption after the manner of Dr Bateman, little exact information is com- municated. Bichat states, that he has seen the corion mani- festly disorganized in elephantiasis *, but says nothing of the anatomical characters of this disorganization. Pinel, Bec- lard, and Meckel, are equally silent on this subject. In short, though we have good descriptions of the external visible ap- pearances of Arabian leprosy, an accurate description of its anatomical characters is still a desideratum. The chronic soft tubercle f molluscum diuturnum), is a rare disease ; and I have seen only one example of it in the per- son of a man of 40, in whom these bodies were disseminated over the cutaneous surface of the face and scalp, the trunk, the upper extremities, the nates and thighs. Of two of the larger tumours which were removed from the palpebroe, the greater part was composed of firm, tough, whitish-gray mat- ter of the consistence of condensed cellular texture, penetrat- ed through its whole extent by numerous minute blood-ves- sels, but exhibiting in no other respect traces of organization. This substance, when macerated in water, was resolved into gelatinous, flocculent filaments,_easily lacerable, and present- ing no definite structure. Imbedded in this, and removable most easily by maceration, were several small bodies not larger than a pin head, like fat in appearance, of a regularly spheroidal shape, of a lemon-yellow colour, and specifically lighter than water. The matter of these bodies was unctu- ous. It communicated an oily stain to paper; it liquefied and became transparent at a temperature not exceeding 97° Fahrenheit, so that when attached to the body, it must have been fluid; it was insoluble in alcohol, ether, and water, but formed in the volatile oil of turpentine a colourless solution. • Anat. Gener.dc, Tome iv. p. CHfi.