775 SEROUS MEMBRANE. aspect, and covered by patches of albuminous exudation. The same is observed in ascites. One of the most decided examples is aftbrded by the inspection of Sir James Craig, so well described by Dr Somerville.* The peritonaeum was found covered by lymph in various points, and lymphy flakes were found abundantly in the fluid. On the same point, the dissections of Dr Crampton in the Transactions of the Dub- lin Association afford unequivocal and satisfactory evidence. In the case of the cerebral membranes it is not quite so easy to obtain evidence. The arachnoid is averse, if I may use the term, to albuminous exudation; and though this oc- curs occasionally, serous effusion is greatly more frequent. The inflammatory origin of this effusion, however, is proved by several circumstances. 1st, The jna mater and choroid plexus are more or less, sometimes highly vascular. The arachnoid is always dry, opaque, dull, and elevated by infiltration into the subjacent tissue. In some instances this infiltrated fluid contains al- buminous matter ; and in some patches of lymph are depo- sited on the free surface of the arachnoid membrane. In one of the most distinct cases of this disease which fell under my personal observation, I found the free surface of the cere- bral arachnoid adhering to that of the falciform process in the great fissure between the hemispheres by well marked filaments of albuminous exudation. 2d, In the case of violence inflicted on the head, which it is Avell known has a tendency to induce inflammation, when that inflammation proves fatal, almost invariably we find effusion from the membranes, in some cases to a great ex- tent. In proof of this, I prefer referring to the cases of other observers than to such as I have inspected. In the fatal cases recorded by Pott and Dease the most uniform appearance is water in the ventricles, which evidently pro- ceeds from the choroid plexus, or inner division of the cerebral membrane. In the numerous and well described cases of Schinucher also, this effusion is always one of the • Medico-Chir. Tr. Vol. v. p. 340, &e.