776 GENEEAL ANATOMY. changes recorded ; and vascularity of the pia mater, and dul- ness of the arachnoid, with subarachnoid infiltration, are fre- quently remarked. Similar results may be derived from the cases given by Dr Thomson, and from those of Dr Hen- nen. In short, it may be inferred that traumatic inflam- mation of the cerebral membranes always induces more or less serous effusion. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that this explains a fact observed by most practical physicians, that hydrocephalus is very often ascribed to blows or falls on the head, the tendency of which to induce congestion of the vessels cannot be denied. 3dj To the same purpose it may be said, that the effu- sion resulting from the operation of the process of fever, whether intermittent, remittent, or continuous, demonstrates the influence of vascular congestion in inducing it. Thus in ague, meningeal effusion is not uncommon; in remittent it is frequent; and in continued fever it is perhaps the most usual cause of the fatal termination of the disease. The ex- tensive body of evidence collected on this point of late years by writers on remittent and yellow fever, and on the ordinary continued fever of this country, renders it unnecessary to dwell longer on this point. In favour of the same inference, the connection so often remarked between dropsy and hemorrhage might be ad- duced. My limits, however, do not permit me to add more. The principal pathological facts regarding the process of inflammation in serous membrane have been so fully stated, that it is superfluous to dwell on the individual diseases. I shall merely, after enumerating them, make a few remarks on some peculiarities presented by the chronic forms of these disorders. They may be arranged in the following order, showing their transition iiito dropsies. Acute form. Chronic form. Dropsical form. Cerebral envelopes, Meningitis ; Arachnitis, Hydrencephalus. Pleura, Plcuritis, Empyema, Hydrothorax. Pericardium, Pericarditis, Pyocardia, Hydrocardia. Peritonseum, Peritonitis, Chronic peritonitis, Ascites. Perididymis, Orchitis, Empyocele, Hydrocele.