721 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. cumscribed with sound or pale-coloured lung, and looks not unlike a clot of venous blood; circumstances by which it is to be distinguished from pneumonic induration, which ter- minates gradually in sound lung. * These changes, which consist in extreme injection of the pulmonic capillaries, and in effusion of blood into the submucous filamentous tissue, and into the pulmonic vesicles, are confined, however, chiefly to the severe forms of pulmonary hemorrhage. They are the effects of previous injection of the capillaries, which is to be considered as the uniform cause of hemorrhage. Much the same changes are observed in the rectum and its submucous tissue in hemorrhoidal disease. This is prov- ed by the testimony of Latta, t Benjamin Bell, :|: Callisen, ยง Monteggia,|| DelpechjIT Chaussier, Larroque, and Calvert.** This disorder is to be distinguished from varix of the veins of the bowels. I conclude this subject with a few remarks on hemorrhage from the uterine mucous membrane in the state of impreg- nation. It is generally supposed that hemorrhage taking place at this period is the effect of abortion; and Denman and some other authors employ a good deal of not very in- telligible argument to prove the proposition. It may, how- ever, be demonstrated, that hemorrhage, or, to speak more to the fact, the anormal state of the uterine capillaries, which leads to hemorrhage, is the cause of abortion ; and that al- most no instance of abortion takes place without previous hemorrhagic distension of the uterine or utero-placental ca- pillaries. By Denman himself it is remarked, that " when abortion is about to happen, there is usually between this (the decidua reflexa) and the outer membrane of \heovum, an effusion of blood, which often insinuates itself through the " Traite de rAuscultation Mediate, &c. A Practical System of Surgery, Vol. ii. Chap. iv. p. 34. X A System of Surgery, Vol. vi. 7. J^dit. Chap, xxxiv. p. 324. ยง Systema Chirurgiae Hodierniae, Vol. ii. Edit. 4to. p. 126. II Istituzione Chirurgiche, Vol. viii. Chap. xv. 389. Precis Elementaire, &c. Tome iiirae Sect. viii. chap. 1. ยง ii. p. 262. ** A Practical Treatise on Hemorrhoids, &x;. London, 1824. P. 23, 24. z z