727 MUCOUS MEMBRANE, state. It may grow also from the fibro-mucous membrane of the frontalj sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses. * When removed it presents, with a few blood-vessels, a floccu- lent tomentose structure, which is well seen by immer- sion in water, in which it generally floats. It occurs al- so in the throat; and I removed one of the same descrip- tion some years ago from the external auditory hole. Ruysch observed them growing in the maxillary sinus, and proceed- ing through the passage below the spongy bone into the nostril,—a fact which I find verified by an observation of M". Giles.t The same sort of tumour is occasionally found in the vagina; and it is a remarkable proof of the general tendency to the formation of these productions, that in some indivi- duals I have seen them occur at the same time in the nasal and vaginal mucous membrane. The formation of this va- riety of polypus is ascribed by Morgagni to anormal deve- lopement of the mucous glands; J a theory in which he is followed by Plenck. § 2. The name of polypus is also given to a firm fleshy in- compressible mass, oval, spheroidal or pyriform, opaque, dark red or purple in colour, sometimes with narrow, some- times with broad and multifid basis. This form of polypus, which is not influenced by the weather, is observed to occur in the pharyngeal or oesophageal mucous membrane, (Mon- ro) ; in that of the stomach, (Morgagni, |{ Monro, IT Gran- ville ; **) in the intestines, in the colon, and rectum, (Rho- dius, Fanton, Portal, Monro.) In the case of M. Paulo, re- corded by Portal, two fleshy concretions as large as the fist were voided during life ; and after death, which was preced- ed by hectic and wasting, in the ascending and transverse co- lon were found four polypous tumours, each as large as a nut, and two smaller ones attached to the mucous membrane, tt " G. F. Gruner de Polypis in cavo Navium obviis. t Phil. Trans. No. 226. p. 472. i Epist. xvi. 36. § " Causa polypi proxima est papilla; pituitarise cxcrescentia seu vege- tatio morbosa." Systema Tumorum, Classis iii. p. 173. II Epist. xiv. 17, 18. % Morbid Anatomy, p. 180, pi. vi. ** Med. Rep. Aug. 1817. ft Anatomie Medicale, Tome v. p. 213.