644 GENERAL ANATOMY. may take place in two modes; either -when the corion only is affected, or when it is affected in common with many other membranes. The first case constitutes the simple purple disease (purpura simplex) of authors; of the second we have examples in the hemorrhagic purples (purpura hemorrha- gica) or land-scurvy, and in the genuine sea-scurvy, (scor- butus.) The anatomical characters of the disease consist in bright red or crimson spots, becoming in a day or two purple or livid, afterwards brown, and when about to disappear, assuming a yellow tint. They are occasionally attended with long livid stripes (vibices) or patches (ecchymomata;) and in some instances the cuticle is raised into vesicles or large pur- ple blebs (phlycta'iice,) containing bloody or purple serous fluid. These spots consist of blood or bloody fluid, effused on the outer surface of the corion, which is soft or pulpy, velvety, and reddish, from injection of its vessels. 3- Angiectasis—Anastomotic aneurism is frequent in the corion, and has been observed by J. Bell, Freer, Travers, and Wardrop. Though congenital, it must not be con- founded with the ncBVUs maternus or birth-spot (I'envie,) which appears to consist in a peculiar original malformation of the corion. A similar congenital defect is the white-spot (leucosis, leuccethiopia,) which consists in the absence of the polished vascular surface of the corion. Occasionally it takes place during life, and in minute spots is observed to follow diseases in which the cuticular surface of the corion has been destroyed by ulceration. 4^. Meliceris, Cutaneous Wen, (see page 218.) The only encysted tumour which takes place in the skin consists in the immoderate enlargement of one or more of its mu- cous follicles, in consequence of obstruction of the excre- tory duct. When from any cause this takes place, the seba- ceous matter, which in the healthy state is propelled to the surface and removed, accumulates in the interior of the fol- licle, which is thus inordinately distended, till by removing the obstruction the orifice is opened and the inspissated