669 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. eye and eyelids is very red, swollen, villous, and pulpy, and puckered into folds by the violent action of the muscles; while the coi-nea is generally connpletely concealed by more or less chemosis, and the eyelids are everted. After conti- nuing in this state for eight or ten days discharging much puriform yellow fluid, it may terminate in infants in resolu- tion, but more generally produces specks or opacity of the cornea, ulceration, pustules, or chronic inflammation and thickening of the cornea, rendering that tunic opaque. In adults, proceeding much in the same manner, its effects are generally more serious. If it do not at an earlier period of the disease cause opacity, the cornea may be ruptured par- tially or generally, so as to allow the escape of the humours. The membranous inflammation becoming in all cases also chi'onic, the surface of the conjunctiva becomes irregular by numerous minute hardish eminences or granulations, and this originally an effect, becomes afterwards a cause of fur- ther inflammation. The puriform ophthalmy originating from the gonorrhceal poison, though differing in its cause, is the same in its pa- thological effects. A pustular form of ophthalmy is sometimes observed. It consists in the appearance of minute eminences of the sclero- tic mucous membrane near the circumference of the cornea. These bodies, which may be considered either as aphthae or pustules, are conoidal, and surrounded by a cluster of vessels which run into them either all round in a circular area, or from one side, most commonly the temporal. When they are situate a line or two from the margin of the cornea, they are broad and flattened. This disease seldom under proper treat- ment advances to suppuration or ulceration ; and I have seen it disappear in thirty hours after being first seen. It seems in some instances to consist in a punctuate deposition of lymph, in others to be a peculiar concentration of blood-ves- sels. It is not impossible for it, however, to proceed to sup- puration and form a minute abscess of the conjunctiva. When these pustular eminences appear in the corneal mucous mem- brane, they generally pass into ulcers.