MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 713 bia, one shapeless mass. The vaginal membrane I have seen the seat of a thick yellow puriform discharge, which was positively asserted to be imconnected with gonorrhceal infection. This, however, requires further confirmation. In all cases the membrane becomes so much swelled that the rugce are to a certain extent obliterated. The lacunce are stated to be the chief source of the discharge when thick and puriform. The uterine mucous membrane is liable to various forms of the inflammatory process, most of which, however, may be referred to three heads,—the spreading sero-mucous or puriform, the limited or suppurative, and the albuminous. Of the spreading inflammation there are two varieties, one with transparent mucous discharge, the other with opaque or white mucous discharge. In ttie first case, in which a transparent, gelatinous, hard coagulable fluid issues from the vagina, the uterine mucous membrane is in a state of chronic congestion, and the organ itself becomes slightly enlarged. This discharge, which is- sues from the mucous surface of the womb, and, according to Leake, from the same vessels which are subservient to menstruation, constitutes a large proportion of the cases re- garded asjluor alius. It takes place as a symptom of prolapse of the womb, bladder, or vagina, of inversion of the womb, of cancer, polypus, and even warty growths of the organ. * In the second form, though the disease may aifect the mu- cous surface in general, its more particular seat is the cervix of the womb and its mucous glands. It was observed ori- ginally by Morgagni, t and afterwards by Leake, that in certain forms ofjluor albus incident to young females of 8 or 10 years old, the discharge proceeds from the mucous glands of the womb. By observing pain and tenderness uniformly in this part, Mr C. M. Clarke confirms the accuracy of this ob- servation. It causes an opaque perfectly white fluid, resem- bling a mixture of starch and water made in the cold, or thin • Observations on tliose Diseases of Females which are attended by Discharges, &c. &c. by Charles Mansfield Clarke. Part i. Lond. 1814, and Part. ii. Lond. 1821. t Epist, xlvii. 14, 15, 18.