MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 731 quent in the pharyngeal and oesophageal, and in the cystic and uterine membrane. 9. Fungous growths or excrescences are mentioned as occa- sionally found in the mucous tissues; but little accurate infor- mation is given regai"ding them. They are frequent in the bladder of the male (Lecat, Sandifort, Baillie, Waltei% &c.) and the uterus of the female, but appear to be more rare in other regions. It is probable that these excrescences named fungous, are in truth the products of an advanced stage of some organic change either already noticed or to be noticed. In the uterus, for instance, authors mention the occurrence of reddish tumours not unlike masses of clotted blood, which are mani- festly either molce, orfungus hcemalodes, or some of the products of cancerous ulceration. In other instances, as in the blad- der, these fungous growths actually issue from the mucous membrane in a morbid state, sometimes the effect of chronic inflammation, or are the result of enlarged prostate. Upon the whole, accurate facts are wanting on this head. 10. Though hydatids are enumerated by some authors among the morbid products of mucous surfaces, it is not easy to un- derstand, without violation of certain pathological principles supposed to be well-established, the reason of their develope- raent in these situations. Thus, hydatids have been stated to be coughed up from the lungs, to be voided from the in- testines, and to have escaped from the uterus. In the case of the lungs, they are formed originally in the pleura, or pul- monic tissue, from which they find their way to the bron- chial membrane ; or they may escape from the liver through the diaphragm; (Dr Foart Simmons, Dr Monro.) In the case of the intestines, they are also in all probability form- ed in the liver or the peritonaeum, and thence proceed by ulceration into the intestinal cavity. The uterus, in short, is the only cavity with mucous surface, in which inspection shows that they have been found. * Tyson, nevertheless, states that he found them in the bladder, f * Morgagni, Epist. xlviii. 13, 14. Portal, Anatomie Medicale, Tome v. p. 527, 528. t Phil. Trans. No. 188.