625 SKIN. of inflammation developed simultaneously in many spots of the corion. These inflamed spots (phlijctidia), always com- mence at the cuticular or outer surface, and in general pene- trate to a depth which is greater or less in different circumstan- ces. After no long time, each phlyctidium is surrounded with a hard red circle somewhat raised, which may be conceived to in- dicate the process of cutaneous inflammation. Hunter would say, and perhaps did say, that this inflammation is of the adhesive kind, and arises from lymph eff'used into that part of the corion which is red, hard, and swelled. I be- lieve it cannot be in every instance shown that this hard swelling depends on effusion of lymph; and it may be doubt- ed whether it arises from such effusion in the case of small-pox. First, hardness and swelling take place at a period of the erup- tion so early, that it appears unreasonable to ascribe them to effused lymph; Secondly, hardness and swelling accompany every example of circumscribed or definite inflammation; Thirdly, it is not easy to understand in what particular part the lymph could be effused, for the corion does not contain cells or cavities like the filamentous tissue, but the outer surface con- sists of a smooth dense membrane, abounding in minute blood-vessels. Fourthly, it is as easy and more natural to think that if effusion took place, it would do so into these minute vessels. In point of fact, the capillaries of the corion of the pustular redness and hardness are numerous and dis- tended; and we believe that the truest conclusion is, that the redness, hardness, and swelling of each pock, consist in the unusual distension of the corial capillaries with blood. Pustular inflammation of the skin naturally terminates in suppuration, which may be either with or without destruc- tion of the corial tissue. In the variolous phlydidia, when dis- tinct, destruction of the skin is rare, but may occur. There is reason to infer that it takes place in consequence of a true process of ulceration. According to the observation of John Hunter, there is another mode in which destruction of the corion, and a per- manent scar may be efiected. " The most certain character,' R r