GENERAL ANATOMY. 810 sive and malignant, often fatal inflammation of the interior surface of the cyst. 3. Tyronia.—Synovial membrane is said to be liable to tu- bercular deposition. No doubt can be entertained of the fre- quency of albuminous deposits ; and I believe tubercles have been seen in the coxo-femoral synovial membrane in disease of that joint. This, however, I have not had an opportunity of verifying. 4. Cartilage In some instances cartilaginous bodies are observed to adhere by a narrow peduncle to the free surface of the synovial membranes. This, though most frequently observed in the femoro-tibial articulation, is certainly not peculiar to it. These bodies may be either generated by morbid action of the synovial tissue, or may be portions of cartilage or fibro-cartilage broken accidentally fi-om some part of the articular apparatus, and suffered again to contract adhesion to the synovial membrane by the inflammation which their presence induces. 5. Hematoidfungus, or cerebriform degeneration, is a disease which often originates in the interior of joints. The circum- stances under which this commences renders it difficult to ascertain the texture primarily affected. It is nevertheless most probable that it is chiefly the synovial membrane in which this tumour commences. In the cases of the disease which have been inspected before much destruction has taken place, the articular extremities of one or both bones have presented large fungous spongy masses of matter like brain, and well supplied with blood-vessels; and it has been impracticable to recognize any trace of synovial membrane or cartilage. The analogy between the serous and synovial sacs in this respect is obvious. 6. Scirrho-carcinoma appears not to originate in this tissue, but certainly aff'ects it from collateral tissues. Some authors have, indeed, with singular vagueness, spoken of certain forms of white swelling or Jungus ariiculi, as being a sort of cancerous disease. This, however, is only one of many er- rors which originate in the practice of applying a vague ge- neral epithet to many different morbid states.