GENERAL ANATOMY. 634 tending to the roots of the hairs render the skin entirely de- pilous. The crimson whelk CA. rosacea, gittta rosea ; dartre pus- tuleuse couperose of Alibert,) is an affection rather compli- cated ; and I doubt whether it is justly classed with those now mentioned. It is doubtless an affection of the corial substance ; but it commences with redness and slight diffuse swelling of the skin of the nose and cheeks., not unlike that of erythema marginatum. This is followed by the appearance of two or three small seedy particles, very hard, but red and tending to suppurate, which they at length do partially at their summits, while the base remains hard, red, and firm. As the red appearance of the skin spreads the roughness in- creases, fresh particles of the same seedy consistence arise and undergo the same course; and some coalescing form broad tubercular blotches of a crimson or livid colour, and irregular notched surface. The skin is not, however, in this state at all times permanently red. I have seen this affec- tion in patches on the cheeks and nose so light coloured, that in the morning it could not be recognized; but in the latter part of the day, after taking wine, and becoming warm, they assumed an intense red inclining to crimson. In the advanced stage, when numerous tubercles appear, and the surface is generally rough and red, the skin swells diffusely and becomes doughy, and is traversed by tortuous purple veins, the nose is enlarged, the nostrils become distended, their surface notched into lobular masses, the red hard bodies of the cheeks become large and coherent, and the whole countenance is converted into a crimson tumid mass, in which the original features are prodigiously deformed. These whelks do not often undergo suppuration, but are constantly casting the cuticle in the form of peelings, or scales, or crusts. When suppuration occurs it is liable to terminate in bad and intractable sores. The chin and scalp whelk, {Sycosis; mentagra ; dartre pustuleuse mentagre,) consists in chronic pustular inflam-