MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 691 of fevers. Its most constant and frequent locality is the 3, 6, or 10 last inches of the ileum; and when it affects the colon it is near the ileo-coecal valve, being on both sides of this point much more confluent than at greater distances. This form of intestinal infllammation M. Bretonneau denomi- nates dothinenteria {hoSivri pustida, and si/rggov intestinum.') * Any one of these forms of morbid condition may produce all the phenomena of diarrhoea or even dysentery. The most uniform and remarkable effect, however, is after the first discharges of feculent matter to cause abundant excre- tion of viscid mucous matter, which, though fluid when dis- charged, undergoes a species of coagulation not unlike jelly. This may be easily recognized, even when mixed with fecu- lent matter. It is free from the peculiar offensive odour of the latter; and it appears to contain a proportion of albumi- nous or gelatinous matter, or both. Ulcei-ation of the mucous follicles is very common after the disease in any of the above forms has subsisted long. This was seen in those of the duodenum by Brunner, in those of the ileum by Lecat, Prost, Petit, and Serres, Bretonneau, and Trousseau, Billard, and Dr Bright. This form of ulceration is invariably more complicated and more difficult of cure than simple ulceration of the villous membrane. Perforation Though any part of the small intestine from the duode?ium to the ccecum may be the seat of ulcers, they are most numerous and largest in the lower part of the ileum. In this part of the tube the ulcerative process may advance so far as to affect the submucous tissue, the mus- cular layer, and the subserous tissue, upon which the perito- ngeuin generally gives way, and laceration or perforation takes place. That the peritonaeum is removed by absorption, or rather gives way when no longer supported by the colla- teral tissues, may be inferred from the fact observed by M. Louis, to whom we are indebted for the best and fullest account of this accident;—that the margin of the ulcers in which per- foration takes place is sharp and clean ; that the mucous and * Archives Generales, tome x. 1826. P. C7 and 169.