©omeaftc Qtrfs §ktt&8 jm jf&rence Q0.22101442257Med K9558FISH AND FISH ENTREES WITH APPROPRIATE SAUCES ©omeeftc $rfg Jletteg By FLORENCE B. JACK PRINCIPAL OF THE SCHOOL OF THE DOMESTIC ARTS, EDINBURGH SECOND IMPRESSION Xonbon: T. C. & E. C. JACK 16 Henrietta Street, W.C. And at Edinburgh 19062/ 54-72^3 WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. G>-T m"CONTENTS How to Choose Fish. Different Kinds of Fish. How to Clean Fish. General Rules for Cooking Fish. To Skin and Fillet Fish. Recipes for Fish. Recipes for Sauces. Miscellaneous.IMPERIAL WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Avoirdupois Weight. 16 drachms (dr.) - make 1 ounce (oz.). 16 ounces ... 3> 1 pound (lb.). 28 pounds - 1 quarter (qr.). 4 quarters ... 1 hundredweight (cwt.). 20 hundredweights 1 ton. 14 pounds ... make 1 stone. 8 stones ... „ 1 hundredweight. ri2 pounds - „ 1 hundredweight. Liquid Measure of Capacity. 4 gills - make 1 pint (pt.). 2 pints - - - „ 1 quart (qrt.). 4 quarts ... „ 1 gallon (gal.). 2 gallons 4 pecks 8 bushels Dry Measure of Capacity. make 1 peck (pk.). „ 1 bushel (bush.). „ 1 quarter (qr.). HOMELY MEASURES. 2 teaspoonfuls 2 dessert-spoonfuls 1 heaped tablespoonful of solids x teacupful of solids 1 teacupfui of liquid 1 tumblerful of liquid - make 1 dessert-spoonful. „ 1 tablespoonful. ,, about 1 ounce. ,, about £ lb. „ fully 1 gill. ,, about £ pint.I A FISH AND FISH ENTREES. HOW TO CHOOSE FISH. When buying fish, choose those which are really in season and plentiful. Fish when not in season is frequently very unwholesome, and quite unfit for food. The supply of fish is so uncertain, and its price so variable, that a housekeeper will find it her wisest plan to visit the fishmonger’s and see for herself what is best and cheapest for the day. Fresh fish may be known by the brightness of the eyes, the redness of the gills, and the firmness of the flesh. The skin should be well covered with scales, and there should be no disagreeable smell. Do not buy fish when the gills are dark, the flesh flabby, and the eyes dull. DIFFERENT KINDS OF FISH. Barbel (Fr. Barieau).—A fresh-water fish of very poor quality. It takes its name from the barbs at its mouth. Is best broiled. Bream (Fr. Breme).—This fish is not much esteemed. It is very handsome looking, but poor in flavour. It tastes best broiled or baked.<05 DIFFERENT KINDS OF FISH ii. Brill (Fr. Barbue).—Like the turbot in appear- ance, and much cheaper. When fresh, the flesh should be of a yellowish tint; if blue, it is not good. Choose a thick one. Is generally boiled. Carp (Fr. Carpe).—A fresh-water fish. Medium sized is the best. Should be soaked in salt and water an hour or two before being used, and should be very carefully washed, as owing to their habit of burying themselves in mud they often have a disagreeable flavour. They are better to be kept a day or two before being used, and should be served with a good sauce. Cod (Fr. Morue).—Choose one plump and round, of medium size, the head and tail small in proportion, and the sides looking as if there were ribs in the flesh. Crabs (Fr. Crabe). — The medium sized are best. Choose a heavy one, for if light it is watery. The male crab is the best for table, and may be dis- tinguished by its large claws. Cray-fish (Fr. Ecrevisses).—Used principally as a garnish, or for making soup. Like lobsters in appear- ance, but smaller and of more delicate flavour. Eels (Fr. Anguilles).—Different species. Salt water and fresh water. The Conger Eel (Anguille de Mer) is a favourite with many people. Its flesh is firm and hard, and requires long and careful cooking. Flounders (Fr. Carrelets).—A flat fish of rather poor quality. Choose a plump one. They are best broiled or fried, or baked au gratin.DIFFERENT KINDS OF FISH iii. Gurnet (Fr. Gournal).—An excellent fish, with firm white flesh and a pleasant flavour. It has a very large head in proportion to the rest of its body. Haddock (Fr. Eglefin).—Choose one of medium size. When large, their flesh is coarse. On each side of its body, just below the gills, there is a dark mark, which superstition calls the finger and thumb mark of St Peter. The flesh of the haddock is firm and of a delicate flavour. Halibut.—A flat fish, like the turbot in appear- ance, but much cheaper. Its flesh is very wholesome and of good flavour. Herring (Fr. Harengs).—When fresh, has a bright and silvery appearance. If red about the eyes, has been dead some time. Should be well covered with scales, and be plump. John Dory (Fr. Doret).—Its flesh is rather tough, and is better kept a day or two before being cooked. It is an unsightly fish, but of good flavour. Ling (Fr. Lingue).—A cheap fish, not unlike cod. Rather tasteless. Requires a good sauce. Lobsters (Fr. Hojtiard).—Choose medium-sized lobsters, which feel heavy and are lively. It is best to buy them alive. The hen is valuable on account of the spawn, but the flesh of the cock is more delicate. Mullet, Grey (Fr. Mulet).—Inferior to red mullet. Like mackerel, it should be eaten while quite fresh. Mullet, Red (Fr. Rouget).—This fish is best and most plentiful in summer. Should never be boiled. Is best baked or broiled. Are better kept for a short time before using.DIFFERENT KINDS OF FISH IV. Mussels (Fr. Mottles).—Must be very fresh. Oysters (Fr. Huitres).—Seasonable from Septem- ber to April. Several kinds. Natives considered the best. Must be perfectly fresh. Perch (Fr. Perche).—A fresh-water fish of good quality. The flesh is firm and white, and has a pleasant flavour. Has a bright shiny appearance when fresh, and should be used at once. Plaice (Fr. Pile).—A flat fish, very moderate in price. Choose one with a thick firm body. Salmon (Fr Saumon).—Choose one with a small head and tail and broad shoulders. The scales should be bright and silvery. To be in perfection it should be cooked as soon as possible after it is caught. Shrimps (Fr. Crevettes).—Brown and red shrimps. Brown have the better flavour. Skate (Fr. Pate).—A broad thick fish is best. The flesh should be firm and creamy in appearance. It is very moderate in price, and is improved by being kept a day or two. It must always be skinned. Un- wholesome when out of season. Scallops.—Must be very fresh, when the roe will be of a bright orange colour, and the flesh very white. Smelts (Fr. Eperlans).—A very small fish, but much esteemed. When fresh, has a silvery hue, and the smell of a cut cucumber. Sole (Fr. Sole)—A flat fish of excellent quality. Its flesh is firm and delicate in flavour. Is best fresh, but in cold weather will keep a day or two. Choose one of medium size.^ HOW TO CLEAN FISH Trout (Fr. Truites.)—The body has a silver and golden appearance when fresh. Those weighing about one pound are best. Turbot (Fr. Turbot).—The best of all flat fish. The flesh is firm, rich, and white. Is better to be kept a day or two before using. The thick part of the fins especially favoured by the epicure. A middle- sized one is best. Whitebait (Fr. Bla?ichailles).—A very small fish of silvery appearance. Highly esteemed. Must be used quite fresh. Best in May, June, and July. Whiting (Fr. Merlan).—A good fish when fresh. Delicate in flavour, and easy of digestion. HOW TO CLEAN FISH. Do not wash fish too much, as by so doing you lose some of the flavour. Some fish are cut open before being emptied; others have the insides drawn out. Be careful not to disfigure the fish. Clean it thoroughly, and see that no blood is left on the bone. If the fish feels slimy, rub it well with a little salt. Scales should be scraped off with a knife, scraping from the tail upwards, and the fish well rinsed after- wards. In cutting off the fins, cut from the tail up- wards. In taking out the eyes, if the skin over them is tough, cut it first with a pair of scissors, and then the eye can easily be pulled out, or pushed out from the inside. Fish that have a strong muddy flavour should be soaked in salt and water before being cooked. Thorough cleansing of fish is essential to its wholesomeness.^ GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING FISH vi. GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING FISH. Boiling. All fish, except mackerel and salt fish, should be put into boiling water, or boiling fish stock salted in the pro- portion of one ounce to one quart of water, and, if liked, add half tablespoonful of vinegar to these quantities. The vinegar helps to keep the fish white and firm. Always weigh the fish before boiling. Eight minutes to the pound and eight minutes over is the time usually allowed, but no hard and fast rule can be laid down, as the time very much depends upon the shape and thickness of the fish. A fish kettle is the best utensil to use for boiling fish, where you have a drainer, which enables you to lift out the fish easily without breaking it. Have enough water in the fish kettle to cover the fish, and no more, and add salt and vinegar in the above proportions. Place the fish on the drainer and lower it gently into the water. If a fish kettle is not to be had, tie the fish up in a thin cloth or piece of muslin. Boil the fish gently for a minute or two, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and let the water simmer for the rest of the time. All scum that rises must be removed. If allowed to settle on the fish it will spoil its appearance. When the fish is ready, the flesh will have lost its clear appearance, and will look white and opaque. The flesh will also leave the bone easily. Be sure to cook the fish sufficiently, or it will be un- wholesome, and at the same time do not overcook it or it will be flavourless. Lift the fish out of the water as soon as it is ready, and drain it well. Never keep it hot in the water. If it has to be kept warm for a^ GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING FISH vii. time, place the drainer, with the fish on it, across the fish kettle, and cover over with a clean cloth. Dish on a folded napkin and strainer, and serve with appropriate sauce and garnish. Frying. French or Wet Frying. This is cooking in a large quantity of fat, sufficient to cover the article to be fried. Clarified fat, oil or lard may be used for the purpose. The fat must be put into a plain iron stewpan, neither tinned nor enamelled, as the great heat would destroy the lining. Success depends upon getting the fat to the right degree of heat. It must be quite still. If it bubbles it shows that it contains water which must pass off by evaporation before the fat can reach the required heat. A blue, smoky vapour should also be seen rising from it. It should then be used at once, or drawn back from the fire, to prevent its burning and making an unpleasant smell. Fish to be fried must first be coated with flour, egg and bread crumbs, or batter. Small fish, pieces of fish, or made up fish, such as fish cakes, cutlets, &c., may be fried in this fat, but larger pieces which require more cooking must be done by the slower method (see Dry Frying, page viii.). Do not put too many pieces into the pan at one time, as they will cool the fat too much, and always bring it to boiling point again before adding more fish. If the fat is not sufficiently hot, it will soak into the articles fried, and make them greasy in- stead of crisp. Either a frying basket or a perforated^ GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING FISH viii. spoon must be used for lifting out the fish. Let them fry a brown colour, and always drain on kitchen paper before serving. Always dish fried things on a d’oyley or dish paper. The fat must not be left on the fire when finished with, but should be strained through a 'piece of muslin into a tin basin, and put aside for further use. If care is taken of it in this way it will keep for a long time, and will not be found an extravagance. Dry Frying. This is suitable for larger pieces of fish, such as cod or salmon steaks, and whole whiting or haddocks, which require a longer time to cook than French fry- ing allows. Dry frying means frying in a saute or frying pan with a small quantity of fat. The fat must be made smoking hot before the fish is placed in it, so that the outside is sealed up, and the juice and flavour retained. Brown the fish first on one side, then turn over with a knife or fish slice, and brown on the other. When cooked, lift out and drain on paper. Serve on a hot dish with a fish paper or d’oyley on it. Steaming. Fish may be cooked by steam instead of boiling it. It is a slower process, but the flavour of the fish is retained better than by boiling. The fish is placed in a steamer which fits on to a saucepan, and success depends upon keeping plenty of water boiling under it. Small pieces of fish may be steamed on a covered plate, placed over a pan of boiling water.IX. TO SKIN AND FILLET A HADDOCK Broiling. To broil fish is to cook it over, or in front of, the fire on a gridiron. The fire must be bright and with- out smoke. The gridiron should be greased and made thoroughly hot before the fish is put on to it. The fish ought to be placed rather near the fire at first, and then raised or drawn back to cook more slowly. Turn occasionally while cooking. Some fish are wrapped in oiled paper before broiling to prevent the escape of any juice. Anything broiled should be sent to table as quickly as possible. TO SKIN AND FILLET A HADDOCK. First wash the haddock in cold water, and cut off all the fins. Make a slit in the skin up both sides, so that it can easily be removed. Make a cut across the skin just below the head, and commence at the flap part. Loosen the skin there, keeping down the flesh with the knife, and beginning very carefully; then pull downwards towards the tail. Turn, and do the other side in the same way. To fillet it, remove the flesh cleanly from the bones on both sides of the fish. Commence at the open side of the fish, slipping the knife along close to the bone, and laying the flesh backwards, but do not separate it from the other side. Turn, and do the other side in the same way. A filleted haddock should be in one piece.x. ^TO SKIN AND FILLET A SOLE OR PLAICE TO SKIN AND FILLET A SOLE OR PLAICE. First wash the fish, and cut off all the fins. Lay on a board with the tail end nearest to you. Make a cut across the skin just above the tail, slip a knife under it, and commence raising the skin from the flesh. Then with the right thumb loosen the skin all the way up the right-hand side. Loosen up the other side in the same way, this time using the thumb of the left hand. Hold the tail of the fish firmly down on the board; take hold of the loosened skin with a cloth, and pull it off quickly, drawing it upwards towards the head. The white skin may be removed in the same way, but this is frequently left on. To fillet the fish, make a cut straight down the middle of the back to the backbone. Then remove the flesh first from one side and then from the other. Two fillets are taken from each side. It will be found easiest to raise the first fillet from the left-hand side of the fish, working from the head towards the tail; and then to turn the fish round, and to raise the second fillet, working from the tail towards the head. Turn the fish right over, and do the other side in the same way. Note.—Filleting is really best learnt by watching a fishmonger or other competent person at work.CARP i.—CARP (STEWED). (Fr. Carpe au Jus.) Ingredients— i medium sized Carp, i des.-spoonful Flour. Pepper and Salt, i Onion. i small bunch of Herbs, i blade of Mace. 12 Peppercorns. 6 Cloves, i gill Port Wine. Juice of ^ a Lemon. A pinch of Cayenne. A slice of Toast. Method— Wash and clean the fish thoroughly. Remove the head and fins, and scrape off the scales with a knife. Divide the fish into four or five equal-sized pieces, and dip each piece into the flour, mixed with a little pepper and salt. Then place the fish in a stewpan, and add the stock, the onion, skinned and cut in thin slices, the herbs, peppercorns, cloves, and mace. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly about one hour, or until the fish feels tender. Then lift out the fish care- fully on to a hot dish, and add the port wine, lemon juice, and cayenne to the liquor in the pan. Allow it to boil up once, then strain over the fish. Garnish with the toast cut in dice. 2.—CARP (STUFFED AND BAKED). (Fr. Carpe Farcie au Four.) Ingredients— i medium-sized Carp. A little Flour. Beaten Egg or Milk. Bread Crumbs, x oz. Butter or Dripping. Stuffing— 3 tablesp. Bread Crumbs, i des.-spoonful chopped Parsley. Grated rind of \ Lemon. \ teasp. powdered Herbs, i teasp. Anchovy Essence. AlittlebeatenEggorMilk.•■OS COD BAKED IN BATTER 3 Sauce—Brown, Reform, Caper, Anchovy, or Melted Butter. (See Recipes for Sauces.) Method— Wash and clean the fish thoroughly. Remove the head and fins, and scrape off the scales with a knife. To Make the Stuffing.—Put the bread crumbs into a basin with the parsley very finely chopped, the herbs finely powdered, lemon rind, anchovy essence, pepper and salt. Mix well, and add sufficient milk or beaten egg to bind all together. Be careful not to make the stuffing too wet. Stuff the fish with this, and sew up with a needle and thread. Then coat the fish lightly with flour to dry it, brush over with milk or beaten egg, and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Melt the butter or dripping in a deep baking dish or tin, place the fish on it, and bake in a moderate oven from half to three- quarters of an hour, basting frequently with the fat. Serve on a hot dish, drawing out the thread. 3.-COD BAKED IN BATTER. Ingredients— 1 lb. Cod. 2 oz. Flour. gills Milk. 1 Egg. Method— Wash the cod, dry it, and cut into small neat pieces, free from skin and bone. Place these at the foot of a greased pie dish, and sprinkle them with a 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. 1 oz. Butter or Dripping.4 COD little white pepper and salt. Then make the batter. Sieve the flour into a basin, and with a wooden spoon make a well in the centre of it. Break the egg into a cup or small basin; do not beat it, but if it is quite fresh, drop it into the centre of the flour. Mix some of the flour gradually into it with the wooden spoon, and add half the milk by degrees. Beat the batter well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air bubbles, then add to it the rest of the milk, the butter or dripping melted, and the chopped parsley. If time permits, let this batter stand for a short time. It gives the flour time to swell, and makes it lighter. Then pour it over the fish, and wipe round the edges of the pie dish. Bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes until the batter is well risen and nicely brown, and the fish feels tender. Serve as soon after it is taken from the oven as possible. Notes.—Any white fish may be used instead of cod, or the remains of cold cooked fish. Half a teaspoonful of finely powdered mixed herbs may be used in addition to or instead of the parsley. The dish may be made richer by adding a few oysters, shrimps, or slices of hard-boiled egg. 4.—COD (TO BOIL). (Fr. Morue Bouillie.) Required— Cod. Vinegar. Boiling Water. Sauce. Salt.STUFFED AND BAKED COD 5 A thick middle cut or the head and shoulders are the best parts of cod for boiling. The tail-end is too insipid, and is better cut in slices and fried. Wash and cleanse the fish thoroughly, and if time permits, rub it well with salt, and let it lie an hour or two before cooking, as this very much improves the flavour of it. Cook according to directions given for Boiling Fish (page vi.). Dish on a hot folded serviette, with a fish drainer under it, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley or scraped horse-radish. Oyster, parsley, shrimp, anchovy, lobster, or egg sauce should be served with it or plain melted butter (see Recipes for Sauces). A small piece is often served with a thick white sauce poured over u, and garnished ■with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve, a little chopped parsley or lobster coral. 5.—STUFFED AND BAKED COD. (Fr. Morue Farcie au Four.) Ingredients— 11 lbs. Cod. 3 tablespoon fuls white Bread Crumbs. 1 tablesp. chopped Suet or Melted Butter. 1 teasp. chopped Parsley. 2 oz. Dripping. I Method— A piece from the thick end of cod is best for stuff- ing, where you have the flap to enclose the stuffing; if a piece nearer the tail is used, the bone must be taken A little grated Lemon Rind. Pepper and Salt. Beaten Egg or Milk. 1 tablespoonful browned Bread Crumbs.COD’S ROE 6 out First wash the fish well, see that it is quite clean and free from blood near the bone, and do not let it lie too long in the water. Then dry it, and it is ready for stuffing. To make the stuffing, put the white bread crumbs into a basin with the chopped parsley, a little grated lemon rind, pepper, and salt. Add the suet finely chopped or the melted butter, mix well together, and add enough milk or beaten egg to bind. Do not make it too wet. Put the dripping into a Yorkshire pudding tin, melt it in the oven or over the fire, and place the fish on this. Put the stuffing in near the bone, doubling the flaps round it, and fixing them with a skewer; or if it is a piece of the tail-end of cod, remove the bone and fill up the hole with the stuffing. Brush the fish over with some of the melted dripping, and sprinkle the browned bread crumbs over the top. Place in a moderate oven, and bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. Baste every ten minutes with the dripping to prevent the fish becoming dry. When ready, lift the fish with a fish slice on to a hot dish, and serve with parsley or anchovy sauce round it (see Sauces). Or it may be served on a fish napkin or dish paper without any sauce. Garnish the fish with some nice sprigs of parsley. 6.—COD’S ROE (TO BOIL). (Fr. Laitances Bouillies.) Required— Cod’s Roe. Salt. Boiling Water. Vinegar. White or Parsley Sauce.^ COD’S ROE 7 Wash the roe well in cold water, but do not let it soak, then tie it up in a piece of muslin or a pudding cloth, to prevent it breaking. Put it into a saucepan or fish kettle of slowly boiling water, salted in the pro- portion of one tablespoonful to one quart of water, and add a few drops of vinegar. The water should just cover the roe. Simmer slowly from fifteen to twenty minutes according to size. When ready, lift the roe out, and let the water drain well from it. Serve on a hot dish with white or parsley sauce poured over it {see Recipes for Sauces), or on a folded serviette, and hand the sauce separately. 7.—COD’S ROE (FRIED). (Fr. Laitances Frites.) Required— Cooked Cod’s Roe. | Frying Fat. Parsley. Boil the roe according to directions given in Recipe 6, and let it get quite cold. Then cut it into slices about half an inch thick, using a very sharp knife. Melt two ounces of dripping or clarified fat in a frying pan, and let it get smoking hot. Put the pieces of roe into this, fry a nice brown colour first on one side and then on the other, turning them with a knife. When ready, lift out and drain on kitchen paper. Serve on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper on it, and garnish with parsley.8 *05 COD SOUNDS 8.—COD SOUNDS. (Fr. Nau de Morue.) Required- Cod Sounds. Equal parts of Milk and Egg, Parsley, or White Sauce. Water. Methods— Cod sounds are generally bought salted, and should be soaked in water for several hours before being used. Then rinse in fresh cold water, and put them into a saucepan with milk and water to cover. Simmer slowly till tender, about half an hour or longer. Then drain and cut the sounds into pieces about two inches square. Reheat in parsley, egg, or plain white sauce (see Recipes for Sauces), and serve on a hot dish, garnishing with yolk of egg, rubbed through a sieve, or chopped parsley, and small pieces of thinly sliced lemon. Notes. — Cod sounds are the air or swimming bladders of the fish. The milk and water in which the sounds are cooked, if not too salt, may be used for making the sauce. 9.—SALT COD WITH EGG SAUCE. (Fr. Morue Salee la Sauce aux CEufs.) Ingredients— i lb. Salt Cod. i oz. Butter, i oz. Flour. 1 Egg- \ pint Water, i des.-spoonful Vinegar. Pepper and Salt. BIO ^ SALT COD WITH PARSNIP PUREE Method— Soak the fish overnight in cold water, then take it out and wash it well in clean cold water. Put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, and let it boil slowly until it is quite tender, about one hour. Then drain it, remove the skin and large bones, put it on to a dish, and keep it warm while the sauce is being prepared. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Pour in the water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Have the egg hard boiled and chopped, add it to the sauce with the vinegar, pepper, and a very little salt. Boil for a minute or two longer, and then pour this sauce over the fish, coating it well. Garnish with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve very hot. WITH PARSNIP PUREE, a la Puree de Panais.) io.—SALT COD (Fr. Morue Ingredients— i lb. Salt Cod. 3 or 4 Parsnips, i oz. Butter. 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls thick Cream. Pepper and Salt. Method— Prepare and cook the cod in the same way as last recipe. Boil the parsnips until quite tender (see Note), then drain and rub them through a fine wire orII *05 COD STEAKS hair sieve. Reheat this purde with the butter, pepper, salt, and a little cream. Pour it over the fish, and garnish with a little very finely chopped parsley. Note.—First wash the parsnips well, brushing all earth off with a vegetable brush, and cut off the tops. Then take clean cold water, and scrape the parsnips lightly from the thick end downwards, until all black is removed. If large, cut them into pieces. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the proportion of one dessert-spoonful to one quart; drain the parsnips and throw them into this. Boil gently with the lid on the pan, for one hour or until tender. Then drain. Method— Take as many slices of cod as required. These are best cut from the tail-end of the fish, and should be about three-quarters of an inch in thickness. Wash them lightly, scraping the skin with a knife, and then dry with a cloth. Mix a little flour, pepper and salt, on a plate; dip the pieces of fish into this, coating them lightly on both sides. This dries the fish thoroughly, and makes it fry better. Then egg and bread crumb the steak (see Recipe 131), and lay them on a dish or tin with a double layer of paper 11.—COD STEAKS. (Fr. Filets de Morue.) Required— Slices of Cod. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt Egg and Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Parsley to garnish.12 CRAB under them. Melt two or three tablespoonfuls of clarified fat or dripping in a frying pan, and when smoking hot, put the pieces of fish into it and fry them slowly, first on one side and then on the other, until nicely browned. About ten minutes will be required to cook the steaks. Lift out, and drain well on kitchen paper. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper or ser- viette under them, and garnish with some nice sprigs of parsley. Tomato or anchovy sauce may be served separately in a sauce-boat (see Recipes for Sauces). Note.—These steaks can be done in a simpler way by dipping them in milk after flouring them, and then in flour again, instead of egging and bread crumbing. 12.—CRAB (TO BOII4. (An Crabe Bouilli.) Required— A Crab. Boiling Water. Salt Method— Choose a crab of medium size and heavy; the light ones are watery. Preference should be given to those with a rough shell and claws. The joints of the claws should be stiff, the shell a bright red, and the eyes bright. Put enough water into a large saucepan or fish kettle to cover the crab. Add salt in the propor- tion of one tablespoonful to each quart of water, and bring to the boil. Tie the claws of the crab together, and when the water is fast boiling, plunge it in. Boil quickly from twenty to thirty minutes, then lift out and drain.13 ^ DRESSED CRAB 13.—DRESSED CRAB (COLD). Ingredients— 2 Crabs (boiled). 2 tablespoonfuls Cream or Salad Oil. 1 tabsp. White Vinegar. 1 teaspoonful Tarragon Vinegar. Method— Pick the meat from the two crabs, keeping back the unwholesome part near the head. Scrub one of the shells thoroughly to receive the mixture, dry and grease it with a little oil or butter. Chop the meat from the crabs very finely, being very careful to remove any small pieces of shell. Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, and season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Return this to the prepared shell, and garnish with sprigs of parsley and thin slices of lemon. Serve on a folded d’oyley or dish paper. Note.—Dressed crab may be served in a fancy china dish instead of the crab shell. To boil a crab, see Recipe 12. 1 teasp. made Mustard. 1 teasp. chopped Parsley. 2 tablespoonfuls white Bread Crumbs. Pepper and Salt. A pinch of Cayenne. 14.—DRESSED Ingredients— 1 Crab (boiled). 2 oz. Bread Crumbs. 2 tablesp. Melted Butter, Cream, or Salad Oil. A pinch of Nutmeg. A pinch of Cayenne. Pepper and Salt. 1 tablespoonful Vinegar or Lemon Juice. CRAB (HOT). 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. A little grated Lemon Rind. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. A few browned Bread Crumbs. £ oz. Butter.IS -*>$ EELS Method— Boil the crab according to Recipe 12, and pick all the meat from it, being careful to keep back the part near the head, which is not good. Chop the meat finely, removing any small pieces of shell. Put this into a saucepan with all the other ingredients except the browned bread crumbs and half ounce of butter. Season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Make the mixture thoroughly hot over the fire, and return it to the shell, which should previously have been well scrubbed, dried, and greased with a little oil or butter. Sprinkle the browned bread crumbs over the top, and put the butter on in small pieces. Bake in the oven or in front of the fire for about fifteen minutes. Serve on a d’oyley or dish paper, and garnish with parsley and small slices of lemon. Note.—If liked, two tablespoonfuls of tomato purde may be added. Method— Wash the eels, dry and cut them into pieces about three inches long. If the pieces are thick, split them and remove the bone. Put a little flour on to a plate, mix with pepper and salt, and dip each piece of fish 15.-EELS (FRIED). {Fr. Anguilles Frites.) Required- Eels. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Frying Fat. 1 Egg. Bread Crumbs.16 STEWED EELS into this, coating them lightly, and shaking off any loose flour. Then egg and bread crumb the fish (see Recipe 131), and fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, page vii.), until a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper on it. Garnish with parsley, and if liked Tartare or caper sauce may be handed separately. 16.—STEWED EELS. (Fr. Anguilles au Jus.) Ingredients— 1 lb. Eels. £ pint Brown Stock. £ oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. J oz. Flour. 1 tablespoonful Cream. 1 tablespoonful Ketchup. Method- Wash the eels well, and cut them into pieces about two inches long. Let them lie in strong salt and water for one hour or more. Put the heads, tails, and any trimmings from the eels into a saucepan with the stock, simmer for half an hour, then strain and use this stock for making the sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and let it brown slightly; then add the flour, and mix together until quite smooth. Pour in the strained stock, add the ketchup, and stir until boiling. Lift the pieces of eel out of the salted water, rinse them in fresh cold water, and put them into the saucepan with the sauce. Stew gently for half an hour, or until the eels are cooked; add the cream just before serving, and season to taste. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toast.i7 FISH CAKES 17.—FISH CAKES—I. (JFr. Gateaux de Poisson.) Ingredients— \ lb. cooked Fish. b lb. cooked Potatoes. 1 oz. Butter. 1 yolk of Egg. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. x teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. Pepper and Salt. A little Flour, Egg, and Bread Crumbs. Method— The remains of any cold cooked fish may be used for making fish cakes. Free the fish from all skin and bone, then weigh it. Chop it finely, being most careful to remove any small bones, which might be most dangerous if left in. Sieve the potatoes, or put them through a vegetable presser, and chop the parsley very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, then add to it the fish, potatoes, parsley, yolk of egg, and seasonings, and mix well together over the fire. Turn out on to a plate, smooth over with a knife, and set aside to cool. When the mixture feels firm, divide it into ten or twelve small pieces. Flour the hands, take one piece at a time, and roll it into a ball, laying them as they are formed on a slightly floured board. Then with a knife, also floured, flatten them slightly, and shape them into neat round cakes. Egg and bread crumb them (see Recipe 131), and fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, page vii.) to a nice brown colour. Drain well, and serve piled high on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley.i8 ^ FISH CAKES 18.-FISH CAKES—II. (Fr. Gateaux de Poisson.) Make in the same way as last recipe, using well boiled and dried rice instead of potatoes. 19.—FISH CREAM. {Fr. Creme de Poisson.) Ingredients— | lb. uncooked Fish. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Bread Crumbs. 1 gill of Milk. White Sauce. Pepper 1 gill Double Cream. 1 white of Egg. A pinch of Nutmeg. A squeeze of Lemon Juice, and Salt. Method— Weigh the fish, free from skin and bone, and shred it down finely with a knife. Put it into a mortar, and pound it well. Rinse out a small saucepan with cold water, to prevent the mixture sticking to it. Put into it the butter and the milk, and bring them to the boil over the fire. Then add the bread crumbs, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until the bread crumbs swell and the mixture thickens. Add this mixture to the fish in the mortar, pound well together, and rub through a wire sieve, scraping the sieve well underneath. Put the mixture into a basin, and season to taste. Beat up the white of egg with a knife on a plate until stiff, and whip the cream in a basin with a wire whisk until thick. Add both these to the fish mixture, and stir them in as lightly as possible with an iron spoon. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould. The20 FISH CURRY mould must not be more than half filled. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top of it, and steam (see Recipe 132) slowly for half an hour, or until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and pour anchovy or white sauce round it (see Recipes for Sauces). Note.—This may be steamed in a border mould, and the inside afterwards filled with green peas, or oysters mixed with a little of the sauce. 20.-FISH CURRY. {Fr. Poisson au Cari.) Ingredients— 6 oz. cooked Fish. \ oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. 1 teaspoonful Curry Powder. \ teaspoonful Chutney. 1 Onion. 1 small Apple. | pint Fish Stock or Water. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. Pepper and Salt. Boiled Rice. Method— Remove all skin from the fish, break it into flakes, and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a small stew- pan, chop the apple and the onion rather small, and fry them in it for a few minutes. Then add the curry powder, chutney, and the rice flour, and mix with an iron spoon until quite smooth. Add the stock or water, and stir until boiling, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. Simmer about twenty minutes until the apple and onion are quite cooked, put in the fish, and let it get thoroughly heated in the sauce. Add21 <4* FISH CUTLETS the lemon juice last. Serve on a hot dish, with a border of rice round (see Boiled Rice, Recipe 133). Notes.—Always use an iron spoon for curry, as a wooden one would get discoloured. The apple may be omitted if the acid taste is ob- jected to; or green gooseberries or a stick of rhubarb may be used in its place. A tablespoonful of cream added just before serving is a great improvement. 21.—FISH CUTLETS. (Fr. Cotelettes de Poisson.) Ingredients— \ lb. cooked Fish. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. 1 gill Milk or Fish Stock. 1 yolk of Egg. Egg and Bread Crumbs. teaspoonful chopped Parsley. teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. Pepper and Salt. Method— Free the fish carefully from all skin and bone, then weigh and chop it finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth ; then pour in the milk or fish stock, and stir until the mixture boils and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the fish, yolk of egg, and seasonings, and mix well together. Turn the mixture out on to a plate, smooth over with a knife, and set aside in a cool place until firm. Divide into eight equal-sized pieces, and22 FISH KROMESKIES form these into cutlet shapes with a little flour (see Lobster Cutlets, Recipe No. 58). Egg and bread crumb them, and fry to a nice brown colour in boiling fat (see French Frying, page vii.). Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of parsley stalk into the end of each, to imitate the bone of the cutlet. Dish in a circle, one leaning against the other, on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 22.-FISH KROMESKIES. (Fr. Kromeskies de Poisson.) Ingredients— \ lb. cooked Fish. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. | gill Milk or Fish Stock. 1 yolk of Egg. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. Pepper and Salt. A little Flour. Thin slices of Bacon. Frying Batter. Frying Fat. Method— Chop the fish very finely, carefully removing any small bones. Put the stock or milk into a small pan with the butter, and bring to the boil over the fire. Add the flour, and mix well with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Then put in the prepared fish, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. When firm, divide the mixture into eight portions, and form each into a cork-shaped piece, using a little flour to prevent the mixture stick-23 ^ FISH OMELET ing to the hands and board. Cut some very thin slices of fat bacon, and wrap a small piece round each fish roll. Make some frying batter (Recipe 139), and have a pan of fat on the fire to heat. Dip the fish rolls, one at a time, into the batter, coating them well, then lift out and drop into boiling fat (see French Frying, page vii.). Fry a golden brown colour, and drain on kitchen paper. Serve on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. FISH OMELET. (Fr. Omelette au Poisson.) Ingredients— 2 oz. cooked Fish. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. 2 Eggs. Pepper and Salt. 1 oz. Butter. Method— Free the fish from skin and bone, and chop it finely. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Put the yolks into a medium-sized basin, and the whites on to a plate. Add to the yolks the chopped fish, parsley, pepper and salt, and work these well together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Beat up the whites of the eggs on the plate with a broad-bladed knife until so stiff that you could turn the plate upside down without the whites falling off. Remove the wooden spoon from the basin, and with an iron one stir into it the beaten whites lightly and thoroughly. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and pour the mixture into it, scraping^ FISH PIE WITH MACARONI 24 out the basin as quickly as possible. Stir the mix- ture round with an iron spoon until it begins to set, stirring mostly on the surface, and not scraping the foot of the pan. Then hold it a little longer over the fire until the omelet is nicely browned on the under side. Slip a knife under it, and double over first from one side and then from the other towards the centre. If not quite cooked on the top, hold it in front of the fire for a minute or two. Then turn it on to a hot dish with a d’oyley or fish paper on it, and serve as quickly as possible. 24.—FISH PIE WITH MACARONI. Ingredients— \ lb. Fish, cooked or uncooked. ^ lb. Macaroni. | pint White Sauce (Recipe 130). J oz. Butter. Lemon Juice. A little grated Lemon Rind. Pepper and Salt. 1 tablespoonful Bread Crumbs. Method— Put the macaroni into a saucepan of hot water and boil until quite soft, drain, and chop it rather small. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and cut it into small pieces, or if cooked, break it into flakes. Grease a pie dish, and put in half the fish, seasoning with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and lemon juice. Next put in half the macaroni and half the sauce, then the remainder of the fish, more seasoning, and the rest of the macaroni and sauce.^ FISH PIE WITH POTATOES 25 Sprinkle the bread crumbs over the top, and place the butter on in small pieces. Wipe round the edges of the pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes if the fish is cooked, or half an hour if uncooked fish is used. Brown the pie nicely on the top, and serve hot, garnished with sprigs of parsley. Note.—A few oysters, picked shrimps, or hard- boiled egg, cut in slices, may be added to this pie. 25.—FISH PIE WITH POTATOES—I. Ingredients— £ lb. cooked Fish. | lb. cooked Potatoes. 1 oz. Butter or Dripping. Pepper and Salt. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. A little grated Lemon Rind. A little Milk. Method— Chop the fish finely, carefully removing all bones and skin, and sieve the potatoes or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the fish and potatoes, and season with pepper, salt, anchovy essence, and a little grated lemon rind. A pinch of nutmeg or mace may also be added. Mix well together, and moisten with a little milk. Grease out a pie dish, and put the mix- ture into it. Smooth over the surface with a knife, keeping it well raised in the centre. Then mark it neatly with a knife or fork, and brush over with milk or beaten egg. Bake in the oven until nicely browned. Wipe the edges of the dish quite clean before serving, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley.26 FISH PIE WITH POTATOES 26.-FISH PIE WITH POTATOES—II. Ingredients— J lb. cooked Fish. 1 gill White Sauce. 1 hard-boiled Egg. Pepper and Salt. | lb. cooked Potatoes. 1 oz. Butter or Drip- A squeeze of Lemon ping. Juice. A little Milk. Method— Break the fish into flakes, and put it into a greased pie dish. Sprinkle with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Then pour over it the white sauce (see Recipe 130). Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, have the potatoes sieved, and add them to it. Season with white pepper and salt, and moisten with a little milk. Pile this on the top of the fish in the pie dish, and smooth over with a knife. Mark up the sides with a fork or the point of a knife, and brush over with milk or beaten egg. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. Method— Chop the fish finely, carefully removing all skin and bone. Boil the rice until tender (see Recipe 133), 27.—FISH PIE WITH RICE. Ingredients— £ lb. cooked Fish. lb. cooked Rice. 1 oz. Butter. 2 oz. grated Cheese. 3 or 4 tab.-spoonfuls Milk. Pepper and Salt.28 STEAMED FISH PUDDING and drain it well. Melt the butter in a saucepan; add to it the fish, rice, half the cheese, and the milk. Mix well together, and season to taste. An egg well beaten may also be added. Put the mixture into a greased pie dish, pile high in the centre, and smooth over with a knife. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese over the top, and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. Note.—The cheese may be omitted if objected to. 28.—STEAMED FISH PUDDING. Ingredients— ^ lb. cooked Fish. 2 02. Bread Crumbs. 1 oz. Butter. 1 gill Milk. 1 Egg. Method— First grease out a plain mould or basin, or several small moulds, with clarified butter, and sprinkle the chopped parsley over the inside. Free the fish from all skin and bone, and chop it finely. Put it into a basin with the bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and anchovy essence. Put the milk and butter into a small saucepan, bring them to the boil, and then pour over the ingredients in the basin. Let these soak for a few minutes, then add the egg well beaten. Mix together, and pour into the prepared mould or moulds. Cover over with greased paper and steam (see Recipe 132) from ten to fifteen minutes if in small moulds, and for half an hour if done in one large c 1 teasp. Ancnovyh^ssence. 1 teasp. chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Anchovy or Parsley Sauce.29 ■*>$ FISH QUENELLES mould. When ready, the mixture should be firm to the touch. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with anchovy or parsley sauce poured round (see Recipe for Sauces). 29.—FISH QUENELLES. (Fr. Quenelles de Poisson.) Ingredients— £ lb. uncooked Fish. 1 oz. Butter. 2 oz. Bread Crumbs. 1 Egg- of Lemon A squeeze Juice. A pinch of Nutmeg. Pepper and Salt. | pint White Sauce. Garnish.—Chopped Parsley, Yolk of Egg, or Lobster Coral. Method— Wipe the fish, and weigh it free from skin and bone. Shred it down finely with a knife, and put it into a mortar. Add the bread crumbs, butter, and season- ings, and pound all well together. Then add the egg and pound again. When well mixed, rub through a wire sieve on to a plate, remembering to scrape the sieve underneath (see Recipe 134). To Shape the Quenelles, you will require two dessert spoons, a knife, and a small basin or jug of warm water. Take up a spoonful of the mixture in a wetted spoon, and with a knife, also wet, smooth the mixture over the top. Make the quenelle as much the shape of an egg as possible, high in the centre and pointed at the two ends. With the second wet spoon scoop30 -*>5 FISH SOUFFLE the quenelle neatly out, and place it in a greased frying or saute' pan. Shape all the mixture in the same way, and keep the quenelles a little distance apart in the pan. Wet the spoons and knife each time before using, and try to make the quenelles all one size and shape. Pour round them very gently enough boiling water to fully half cover them. Place over them a piece of greased paper, cut to the size and shape of the pan, and poach them on a slow fire from ten to fifteen minutes. The water must only be allowed to simmer very gently. When ready, quenelles should be firm to the touch, and should have lost their raw appearance. Lift them out with a draining spoon on to a hair sieve or clean cloth, and drain for a few seconds. Dish the quenelles in a circle, one leaning against the other on a hot dish. (They may, if liked, be raised on a round of toast, or some cooked spinach.) Coat them nicely with white sauce (see Recipe 130), and garnish with a light sprinkling of very finely chopped parsley, lobster coral, or sieved yolk of egg. A little of each may be used, but avoid too much ornamen- tation. 3a—FISH SOUFFLE. (Fr. Souffle de Poisson.) Ingredients— 6 oz. uncooked White Fish. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. 1 gill Milk or Fish Stock. White Pepper and Salt. 2 yolks and 3 whites of Eggs. A pinch of Mace. White or Anchovy Sauce.31 GURNETS Method— Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, and scrape it down finely with a knife. Make a panada with the butter, flour and milk, or fish stock. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Then pour in the milk or fish stock, and stir until the mixture is thick and begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Put this panada into a mortar with the fish, seasonings, and yolks of eggs. Pound well together, and rub through a fine wire sieve, scraping the sieve well underneath (see No. 134). Beat up the whites of eggs in a basin with a wire whisk until quite stiff, and stir them lightly but thoroughly into the fish mixture with an iron spoon. Pour all into a well-greased mould or souffle tin (the mixture should only half fill the tin), cover with greased paper, and steam slowly for half an hour, or until firm to the touch (see No. 132). Then lift out, and allow the souffle to stand for two minutes. Turn carefully out on to a hot dish, and serve with anchovy or white sauce poured round (see Recipes for Sauces). 31.—GURNETS (TO BAKE). (Fr. Gournaux au Four.) Required— 3 or 4 Gurnets. 2 tablespoonfuls Water or Fish Stock. 1 oz. Butter. A squeeze of Lemon J uice. Pepper and Salt. 1 teaspoonful finely chopped Onion. Method— Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, removing the head and fins. Then skin them, and score acrossGURNETS 32 on both sides with a knife. Grease a pie dish or fire-proof dish, and lay the fish in it. Season well with pepper and salt, sprinkle with finely chopped onion, and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Pour the water or fish stock round, and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or until the fish draws away easily from the bone. Serve in the same dish, wiping round the edges first, and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley or slices of lemon. Note.—The onion may be omitted. A few chopped mushrooms may be added, and brown sauce poured round. Method- Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, removing the head and fins. Skin the fish (see page ix.), and then dip in flour mixed with a little pepper and salt. Next egg and bread crumb the fish (see Recipe 131), and lay them on to a dish or tin with double kitchen paper on it, ready for draining. Melt about two ounces of fat in a frying pan, and let it become smoking hot. Fry the fish slowly in this, first on one side and then on 32.—GURNETS (TO FRY). (Fr. Gournaux Frits.) Required— Gurnets. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Parsley to garnish. Slices of Lemon.35 STUFFED AND BAKED HADDOCK half an hour, according to size, or until the flesh comes away easily from the bone. Remove any scum, and lift the fish out as soon as it is ready. Drain for a few minutes. If there is no fish kettle, the fish should be tied in a piece of muslin so that it can be easily lifted from the water without breaking. Dish the fish on a hot dish with a fish napkin under it, and garnish with cut lemon and sprigs of parsley. Serve melted butter, parsley, or anchovy sauce separately. If the fish is small, it may be served on a hot dish, and the sauce poured over, coating it well. 35.—STUFFED AND BAKED HADDOCK. (Fr. Eglefin Farci au Four.) Ingredients— 1 medium-sized Had- dock. 3 tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs. 1 tablespoonful chopped Suet or Melted Butter. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Method— Wash and clean the haddock, scraping the skin well from the tail towards the head, and taking out the eyes. Then dry in a cloth. To make the stuffing—Put the bread crumbs into a basin with the suet, parsley, and mixed herbs, all finely chopped. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind, and then add enough milk to bind all together. \ teaspoonful Mixed Herbs. A little Lemon Rind grated. A little Milk. 2 oz. Dripping or Clari- fied Fat. 2 tablespoonfuls browned Bread Crumbs.36 STUFFED FILLETS OF HADDOCK Do not make the stuffing too moist. Put this into the opening of the fish, and sew it up with a needle and strong thread. Melt the dripping in a deep baking tin, and lay the fish into this with its back uppermost, trussed with a skewer in the shape of the letter S. Brush it over with a little of the melted dripping, and then coat it with the browned bread crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes, basting every ten minutes with the dripping to pre- vent it becoming dry. When ready, lift with a fish slice on to a hot dish, remove the skewer, and draw the thread carefully out. Serve plain, or with anchovy, parsley, or tomato sauce poured round (see Recipes for Sauces). Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. 36.—STUFFED FILLETS OF HADDOCK. (Fr. Filets d’Eglefin Farcis.) Ingredients— 2 small filleted Had- docks. Pepper and Salt. Lemon Juice. 2 tablespoonfuls browned Bread Crumbs. Maitre d’Hotel Butter. Anchovy or Parsley Sauce. Method— Stuffing— 2 tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. 1 des.-spoonful melted Butter. Grated Lemon Rind. Pepper and Salt. A little Milk. Wipe the fish with a clean cloth, and cut them in half lengthways. Lay them out on a board with the side which the skin was taken off uppermost,HADDOCKS 37 and season each piece with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Prepare the stuffing in the same way as for last recipe, lay a little on each fillet, and roll them up, commencing at the thick end, and rolling towards the tail. Stand them up on a greased tin, cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes, or until the fish has lost its clear appearance, and looks quite white. When ready, roll the pieces in some fine browned bread-crumbs, coating them well. Place them on a hot ashet, pour some anchovy or parsley sauce round (see Recipe for Sauces), and put a small pat of maitre d’hotel butter (see Recipe 135) on the top of each. Method— Haddocks when small may be fried whole. Wash and clean the fish, then skin and dry them thoroughly. Coat the fish lightly with flour, then egg and bread crumb them (see Recipe 131). Lay them on to a plate or tin with some kitchen paper under them ready for frying. Melt about two tablespoonfuls of clarified fat or dripping in a frying pan, and let it become smoking hot. Fry the fish slowly in this, first on one side and 37.—HADDOCKS (TO FRY). (Fr. Eglefins Frits). Required— Haddocks. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Parsley to garnish.HADDOCK FRIED IN BATTER 38 then on the other, allowing both sides to become nicely browned. From seven to ten minutes will be required to cook the fish, according to size and thick- ness. When ready, lift out with a broad-bladed knife or fish slice, and drain for a few minutes on the kitchen paper. Serve on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper under them, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Notes.—If the haddocks are very small, they may be fried in deep fat (see French Frying, page vii.). Instead of egging and bread crumbing the fish, it may be done in a simpler way, by coating it rather more thickly with flour, and then frying it. 38.—HADDOCK FRIED IN BATTER. (.Fr. Friture d’Eglefin.) Ingredients— 1 filleted Haddock. Lemon Juice. Pepper and Salt. Batter— 2 oz. Flour. 1 des.-sp. Salad Oil or Melted Butter. | gill Tepid Water. 1 white of Egg. A pinch of Salt. Method- First make the batter, as it is better to stand for some time before using. Sieve the flour, to which has been added a pinch of salt, into a basin, and make a well in the centre of it. Add the salad oil or melted butter, and mix a little of the flour into it with a wooden spoon. Then add the water gradually, and beat the batter well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air bubbles. Beat up the white of egg on a plate with aFILLETED AND FRIED HADDOCK 39 knife until quite stiff, and just before using the batter stir this lightly in with an iron spoon. Wipe the fish with a cloth and cut it into small neat pieces; lay them on a plate, and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Have ready on the fire a saucepan half full of boiling fat, and a plate or tin with double kitchen paper on it ready for draining the fish. Dip one piece of fish at a time into the batter, coat it well, lift out with an iron spoon, and drop it gently into the boiling fat. Do each piece in the same way. Let them fry a nice brown colour, then lift out with a perforated spoon, and drain well on kitchen paper. Serve piled up on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper under them, and garnish with fried parsley. 39.—FILLETED AND FRIED HADDOCK. {Fr. Filets d’Eglefin Frits.) Required— 1 filleted Haddock. 1 Egg. 1 dessert-spoonful Flour. A pinch of Salt. Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Method— Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, and cut it into neat-sized pieces. Put the flour on a plate, and mix with it a little salt. Dip the pieces of fish into this, coating them very thinly, and shaking all the loose flour off. Then egg and bread crumb the pieces of fish (see No. 131), and as each piece of fish is ready, lay it on a plate or tin, with a piece of double kitchen paper on it. Have ready on the fire a saucepan half full of boiling fat; when there is a slight blue smoke rising from it, put the pieces of fish slowly in one after the other. If too much is put in at one time the40 ^ RIZZARED HADDOCK fat is cooled down so much that it soaks into the pieces of fish and makes them greasy. Allow the pieces to fry until they are a nice brown colour, then lift out with a spoon—a perforated one is best—and let the fat drain well from them. Put them back on to the piece of kitchen paper to drain. Serve on a hot dish with a fish d’oyley or dish paper on it. Pile high in the centre of the dish, and garnish with parsley. 40.—RIZZARED HADDOCK. (Fr. Eglefin Grille.) Required— Small Haddocks. A little Flour. Salad Oil or Melted Pepper and Salt. Butter. Method— Skin the fish, cut off the heads, and make them thoroughly clean. Brush them all over with salad oil or melted butter, and coat lightly with flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Score the fish across two or three times, but not very deeply, on both sides. Grease the grill, and make it very hot, either on the top of the fire or by hanging it in front. Broil the fish first on one side and then on the other, allowing from seven to ten minutes, according to size. Serve very hot, with a pat of butter on the top of each. 41.—HALIBUT WITH TOMATOES. Ingredients— i| lbs. Halibut. Juice of \ a Lemon. 3 or 4 fresh Tomatoes. 2 tablespoonfuls Bread x tablespoonful Flour. Crumbs. Pepper and Salt. \ oz. Butter.^ HALIBUT BAKED WITH VINEGAR 42 Method— Wash the halibut, and cut it into small neat pieces free from skin and bone. Put the flour on to a plate, and coat each piece of fish lightly with it. Let the tomatoes soak in boiling water for a few minutes, then lift them out, dry, and skin them. Put them on to a plate and cut them into slices. Grease out a pie dish with a little butter, lay in a few pieces of fish, and season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Over these put some of the tomatoes, then more fish and seasoning, and so on until all is in. Make the top layer tomatoes; sprinkle the bread crumbs over last of all, and put the butter on in small pieces. Bake in a moderate oven from three-quarters to one hour, and brown nicely on the top. When ready remove from the oven and wipe round the edges of the pie dish. Place the pie on a dish, and serve very hot. 42—HALIBUT BAKED WITH VINEGAR. Ingredients— 11 lbs. Halibut. 1 tablespoonful Flour. Pepper and Salt. 1 gill of Vinegar. 1 gill of Water. 1 oz. Butter. Method— Wash the halibut, dry it, and cut it into pieces about two inches square, and free from skin and bone. Put the flour, pepper, and salt on to a plate, mix them together, and dip each piece of fish into this, coating them well. Grease out a pie dish with a little of the butter, and place the pieces of fish neatly into it. Pour over them the vinegar and water, and put the rest of the butter43 HALIBUT in small pieces on the top. Wipe round the edges of the pie dish with a cloth, and bake in a moderate oven from half to three-quarters of an hour. Garnish the dish with one or two sprigs of parsley, and serve either hot or cold. 43.—HALIBUT (TO BOIL). Required— Halibut. Boiling Water. Salt. A little Vinegar. Parsley and Lemon to garnish. Sauces—Melted Butter, Parsley, Anchovy, Egg, Oyster, Shrimp, Lobster or Hollandaise. (See Recipes for Sauces). Method- Boil and serve according to directions given for Boiled Cod (see Recipe 4). 44.-HALIBUT (MAYONNAISE OF). Required— Halibut. Parsley, Lobster Coral Mayonnaise Sauce. or Salad to garnish. Method— Boil a nice middle cut of halibut (see Recipe 4), being careful not to overcook it, or it will lose its shape. Drain well, and remove the skin. When quite cold, lift on to a clean dish, and pour over enough Mayon- naise sauce to coat it nicely (see Recipe 120). Garnish45 HALIBUT STEAKS with some finely chopped parsley or lobster coral sprinkled lightly over it, and round the dish arrange some sprigs of parsley or some nice leaves of lettuce or endive. Cucumber or tomato salad would make a nice accompaniment to this dish. Note.—Cold halibut can also be served quite simply without the sauce. It should be prettily garnished. 45.—-HALIBUT STEAKS (TO FRY). Required— Slices of Halibut. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Method— Cut some slices from the tail-end of a halibut about half an inch in thickness. Prepare and cook in the same way as Cod Steaks (see Recipe n). Egg and Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Parsley to garnish. 46.—HALIBUT STEAKS A LA CREME. Ingredients— i£ lbs. Halibut. 1 oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. Lemon Juice. Sauce— 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. £ pint Seasoned Milk or Fish Stock. 1 tablespoonful Cream. Pepper and Salt. Method— Wash the fish, and cut it in slices about half an inch in thickness. Grease a Yorkshire pudding tin withHERRING 47 some of the butter, and lay the fish on it. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Put the remainder of the butter on the top, and cover with greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, or until the fish is cooked. Then lift it with a fish slice or broad- bladed knife on to a hot dish, and keep it warm while the sauce is being made. To make the sauce—Melt the butter in a saucepan, but do not let it discolour. Add the flour, and mix, until smooth, with a wooden spoon. Then pour in the seasoned milk (^Recipe 116) or fish stock, and stir constantly over the fire until the sauce boils and thickens. Strain into it the liquid left in the Yorkshire pudding tin, add the cream, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Allow the sauce to boil for two or three minutes longer, then pour over the fish, coating it well. Garnish with a little finely chopped parsley and thin slices of lemon. Serve hot. 47.—HERRING (TO BROIL)—I. (Fr. Harengs Grilles.) Required— Herring. Pepper and Salt. Salad Oil or melted Maitre d’Hotel Butter. Butter. Method- Cut the heads and fins off the herring, and clean without splitting them open. Wash them well, scrap- ing off the scales with a knife, and then dry in a cloth. D^ HERRING 48 Score the fish across with a knife three times on each side, brush them over with a little salad oil or melted butter, and season with pepper and salt. Grease and heat a gridiron or hanging grill, and cook the fish on this, either over or in front of a nice clear fire. They will take from seven to ten minutes, and must be turned frequently. Serve on a very hot dish with a dish paper under them, and serve small pats of maitre d’hotel butter (see Recipe 135) separately. Note.—If there are any roes, they may be cooked with the fish, or baked on a tin in the oven. Method- Cut the heads and fins off the herring, then wash and clean them, scraping off the scales with a knife. Split them open, and remove the bone. Then dry thoroughly with a cloth, and coat them lightly with flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Next egg and bread crumb (see Recipe 131) the fish, and cook and serve according to Recipe 47. 48.—HERRING (TO BROIL)-II. (Fr. Harengs Grilles.) Required— Herring. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Egg and Bread Crumb*. Maitre d’Hotel Butter. 49.—HERRING (TO FRY)—I. (Fr. Harengs Frits.) Required- Herring. Oatmeal. 2 oz. Dripping or Clari- Pepper and Salt. fied Fat. Parsley to garnish.50 HERRING Method— Wash and scrape the herring, cutting off the fins and the head. Split them open, and remove the bones. Put some oatmeal, pepper, and salt on to a plate, mix them well together, and dip each fish into this. Melt about two ounces of dripping or clarified fat in a frying pan. When it is smoking hot, put in the fish, the open side downwards. Brown on the one side, then turn with a fish slice and brown on the other. When ready, lift out and drain on kitchen paper. Serve on a hot dish with a fish d’oyley or dish paper on it, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. If the herring are small, they may be fried in deep fat {see French Frying, page vii.). 50.—HERRING (TO FRY)-II. (Ft•. Harengs Frits.) Required— Herring. I 2 oz. Dripping or A little Flour. | Clarified Fat. Pepper and Salt. Method- Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, but do not split them open. Cut off the heads and fins, scrape the skin well with a knife, and then dry in a cloth. With a sharp knife make three scores through the skin on each side of the fish, but do not cut too deep. Mix some flour on a plate with pepper and salt, and dip the herring into this, coating them well. Fry according to directions given in Recipe 49, and serve very hot garnished with parsley or fried onion.5i ◄X5 PICKLED HERRING Fried Onion.—Skin the onions, and cut in very thin slices with a sharp knife. Melt a small piece of butter or dripping in a saucepan, and let it colour slightly. Put the sliced onion into this, and fry slowly for about ten minutes until nicely browned. 51.—PICKLED HERRING. (Fr. Harengs Marines.) Required— 3 or 4 Herring. 1 tablespoonful Flour, teasp. powdered Mace. Pepper and Salt 4 or 5 Cloves. 12 Peppercorns. Brown Vinegar and Water. Method- Wash and clean the herring, cutting off the heads and the fins, and scraping the skin well with a knife. Dry them in a cloth, and then split them open, and remove all the bones. Cut each herring in two lengthways. Put the flour, pepper, salt, and mace on to a plate, and mix them well together. Dip each piece of herring into this, and roll them up from the thick end towards the tail. Pack them into a greased pie dish, putting them in two layers if necessary. Pour round them in equal quantities water and brown vinegar, enough to half fill the dish. Put in the cloves and peppercorns. A bay leaf may also be added. Place small pieces of dripping here and there over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Set aside till cold. Serve as many pieces of fish as will be required at one time on a clean ashet, pour a little of the liquid round them, and garnish with parsley.52 ^ STUFFED AND BAKED HERRING Herring done in this way will keep for several days. More vinegar should be added if required. Do not let the fish get too dry. 52.—STUFFED AND (Fr. Harengs F Ingredients— 4 Herring. 1 des.-spoonful Flour. Pepper and Salt. A little Butter Method— BAKED HERRING, cis au Four.) 2 tablesp. Bread Crumbs. 1 teasp. chopped Parsley. 1 tablespoonful Milk, r Dripping. Wash and clean the fish, cutting off the heads and the fins. Scrape all the scales off with a knife, and then dry the fish in a cloth. Split them open, removing all the bones carefully; and if there are roes, put them on to a greased tin, and bake in the oven about ten minutes. Dip each fish into the flour, coating them lightly, and score the skin across three times with a knife. To make the stuffing, put the bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and parsley into a basin, chop up the roes, add them to it, and moisten with milk. Spread this stuffing on the open side of two of the herring, and cover with the other two, keeping the skin side uppermost this time, and making a sand- wich as it were. Grease a Yorkshire pudding tin with a little dripping, place the fish on this, and put some more dripping or butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, and serve on a hot ashet with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Note.—Oatmeal may be used for the stuffing in- stead of bread crumbs.S3 JOHN DORY 53.— JOHN DORY. (Fr. Doret.) Choose this fish of medium size. The large ones are coarse and strong in flavour. Cook it according to any of the Recipes given for Cod or Halibut. 54.—KEDGEREE. Ingredients— ^ lb. cooked Fish. 3 oz. Patna Rice. 2 oz. Butter or Dripping. Pepper and Salt. 1 raw yolk of Egg. 1 teasp. chopped Parsley. Method— Free the fish from all skin and bone, then weigh and chop it finely. Boil the rice according to Recipe 133, and drain it well. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and put in the fish and rice. Season with pepper and salt, and add the raw yolk of egg. Mix well together, and make thoroughly hot. Pile in the centre of a hot dish, making a neat pyramid, and mark up the sides with a fork. Sprinkle the chopped parsley over and serve very hot. Notes.—Finnan haddock is very nice used in kedgeree. A little curry powder is sometimes added. A hard-boiled egg can also be used, the white chopped and mixed with the other ingredients, and the yolk rubbed through a sieve on to the top of the kedgeree after dishing. The raw yolk of egg may be omitted, but it tends to soften the kedgeree and is an improvement.ss ^ LOBSTER 55.—LOBSTER (TO BAKE). (Fr. Homard au Gratin.) Ingredients— 1 Lobster. 2 tablespoonfuls White or Fish Stock. x or 2 tablesp. Cream. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. Method— Boil the lobster according to Recipe 56. Separate the body from the tail, and with a sharp knife cut it into two neat pieces. Pick all the meat from the shell, and throw away the part near the throat that looks like a bag, and is not wholesome. Reserve any coral. (Wash, and dry it in a slow oven. Then pound and sieve it, and use it for decorating purposes. It should be put into a small jar or bottle and corked, and will often be found useful for a garnish.) Chop the meat from the lobster into small pieces, being careful to keep back any pieces of shell. Put it into a saucepan with the bread crumbs, parsley, stock, and cream. Season with pepper, salt, lemon rind, lemon juice, and anchovy essence, and simmer over the fire for five or six minutes. Clean the two parts of the shell nicely, grease them with salad oil or melted butter, and fill up with this mixture. Sprinkle the browned bread crumbs over the top, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a fish d’oyley or dish paper under it, and garnish with parsley and small slices of lemon. Grated rind of | a Lemon. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. 2 tablespoonfuls white Bread Crumbs. Pepper and Salt. 1 tablespoonful browned Bread Crumbs.56 LOBSTER 56.—LOBSTER (TO BOIL). (Fr. Homard Bouilli.) Required— Lobster. | Boiling Water. Salt. Method— Buy lobsters alive, and choose those that are heavy and full of motion. Medium-sized lobsters are best. Have ready on the fire a deep saucepan of boiling water, with salt added to it in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls to one quart. Put in the lobster, and keep it boiling quickly from twenty to forty minutes, according to its size. Skim well when necessary. If boiled too long the meat becomes thready ; and if not long enough, the coral will not be red. Lift out when ready, drain well, and if the shell has to be used in the serving up, rub it over with a little butter or salad oil to polish it. Rub it off again. 57.—LOBSTER, CREAM OF (HOT). (Fr. Creme de Homard Chaud.) Ingredients— 1 small Lobster. 2 oz. Bread Crumbs. 1 oz. Butter. 1 gill of Milk 1 white of Egg. Cardinal Sauce (see Recipe no). 1 gill Double Cream. Pepper and Salt. A squeeze of Lemon Juice.-05 LOBSTER CUTLETS 58 Method— Pick all the meat from a small boiled lobster, and save the coral for the sauce. Chop the meat finely, being careful to remove any pieces of shell, and put it into a basin with the bread crumbs and the butter. Boil the milk, and pour it over the ingredients in the basin; cover with a plate, and soak for ten minutes. Put the cream into a basin, and whip it with a wire whisk until quite stiff, and beat up the white of egg on a plate with a knife. Stir these two lightly into the other ingredients, and pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle mould. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top, place it in a stew- pan with warm water to come half-way up the mould, put the lid on the pan, and steam very gently for half an hour, or until firm to the touch. Turn carefully out on to a hot dish, and cover with cardinal sauce {see Recipe no). 58.—LOBSTER CUTLETS. (Fr Cotelettes de Homard.) Ingredients— 1 Hen Lobster. 1 oz. Butter. \ i^oz. Flour. 1 gill Water c Panada, or Fish Stock. Pepper and Salt. 1 tablespoonful Cream. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. A pinch of Cayenne. Spawn or Coral. £ oz. Butter. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Method— Remove all the flesh from a boiled lobster, and chop it very finely, carefully keeping back any little59 LOBSTER OMELET pieces of shell. Pound some spawn or coral in a mortar with the half ounce of butter, and rub it through a hair sieve. This is called lobster butter. Make a panada by putting the butter and water or stock into a saucepan, and when they boil, stirring in the flour. Mix well with a wooden spoon until per- fectly smooth and well cooked. Then add the lobster, the lobster butter, cream, and seasonings. Mix well together, and turn out on to a plate to cool. When cold and firm, form the mixture into small cutlet- shaped pieces, using a little flour to enable you to shape them more easily. Then egg and bread crumb them (see Recipe 131), and fry in hot fat to a golden brown (see French Frying, p. vii.). Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of the feeler or a piece of parsley stalk into the narrow end of each to represent a bone. Dish in a circle on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with fried parsley. Curry sauce (see Recipe hi) may be handed separately. 59.—LOBSTER OMELET. (Fr. Omelette au Homard.) Ingredients— 3 Eggs. 1 oz. Butter. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Mixture— 3 oz. cooked Lobster. 2 tablespoonfuls White Sauce. Pepper and Salt. A pinch of Cayenne. Method— First prepare the mixture. Cut the cooked lobster into small pieces, removing any shell. Heat it6o ^ MACKEREL thoroughly in a saucepan with the white sauce, season- ing rather highly with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Keep this warm whilst preparing the omelet. To Make the Omelet.—First separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, putting them into separate basins. Add to the yolks of the eggs the anchovy essence, chopped parsley, and seasonings. Mix well with a wooden spoon until the mixture is of a creamy consistency. Then add a pinch of salt to the whites, and with a wire whisk beat them up to a very stiff froth. Stir these very lightly into the yolks, &c., using an iron spoon, and keep turning the mixture over and over until of a uniform colour. Melt the butter in a frying or omelet pan, and turn the mix- ture into it. Keep stirring over a good fire until it begins to set and get lumpy. Then free from the edges with a knife, and hold for a minute or two longer over the fire. Put the hot lobster mixture into the centre, and fold the omelet over it, first from one side, and then from the other, making the edges overlap in the middle. Slip carefully on to a very hot dish with a dish paper on it, and serve the omelet as quickly as possible. 60.—MACKEREL (TO BROIL). (Fr. Maquereau Grille.) Prepare and cook in the same way as Broiled Herring (Recipes 47, 48). Serve with gooseberry or mustard sauce (see Recipes for Sauces).6i -oS MACKEREL 61.—MACKEREL (PICKLED). (Fr. Maquereau Marini.) Prepare and cook in the same way as Pickled Herring (see Recipe 51). 62.—MACKEREL (STUFFED AND BAKED). (Fr. Maquereau Farci au Gratin.) Ingredients— 2 medium-sized Mac- kerel. 3 tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs. 1 tablespoonful chopped Parsley. Pepper 4 Button Mushrooms, chopped. A little grated Lemon Rind. 2 oz. Butter. A little Milk, d Salt. Method— Wash and clean the fish thoroughly. Cut off the heads and fins, and scrape the skin well with a knife. Then dry the fish in a cloth, and they are ready for stuffing. Put the bread crumbs into a basin with the chopped parsley, chopped mushrooms, grated lemon rind, pepper and salt. If there are any roes, cook them on a tin in the oven for ten minutes, then chop them, and add them to the stuffing. Melt the butter, and add half of it, with enough milk to moisten. Put this stuffing into the openings of the two fish, and sew them up with a needle and strong cotton. Place the fish on a greased fireproof dish, putting one head at one end of the dish, and one at the other. Pour the rest of the butter over the top of them, cover with63 MUSSELS A LA POULETTE greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When ready, remove from the oven, draw out the pieces of cotton carefully, and wipe round the edges of the dish. Serve hot garnished with parsley. 63.—MUSSELS A LA POULETTE. (Fr. Moules.) Ingredients— 1 quart Mussels. 1 Onion. A few sprigs of Parsley. Pepper and Salt. £ pint White Wine. Method— Choose small mussels; they are the most delicate. Scrape the shells carefully with a knife, and wash well in cold water, changing the water several times until the mussels are quite free from grit. Put the mussels into a saute pan or shallow stewpan, with the onion thinly sliced, sprigs of parsley, white wine, pepper and salt. Cover the pan, put it on the fire, and toss the mussels occasionally. When the shells open, the mussels are done. Drain them, and strain the liquor into a basin. Remove one shell from the mussels; dip them in plenty of hot water; drain and wipe them. Melt the butter in the pan, add the flour, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Pour in the strained liquor, and stir until boiling. Add the yolk of egg and chopped parsley, and allow the sauce to thicken, but do not boil again. Put the mussels on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. £ oz. isutter. \ oz. Flour. 1 des.-spoonful chopped Parsley. 1 yolk of Egg.OYSTERS AU NATUREL 64 64.-OYSTERS AU NATUREL. (Fr. Hultres au Naturel.) . Required— Oysters. Cayenne. Pepper and Salt. Lemon Juice. Parsley to garnish. Method— Open the oysters carefully, and serve them in their shells arranged on a folded serviette. Season them with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Garnish with parsley or cut lemon. Serve directly they are opened, or the flavour will be spoilt, and hand thin brown bread and butter separately. 65.—OYSTER CUTLETS. (Fr. Cotelettes d’Huitres.) Ingredients— 2 dozen Oysters (fresh or tinned). \ oz. Butter, x oz. Flour. £ gill Oyster Liquor. 1 tablespoonful Cream. Frying Fat. Pepper and Salt. A pinch of Cayenne. A pinch of powdered Mace. A little Flour. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Method— Put the oysters into a small pan with their own liquor, bring to the boil and strain. Then remove the gristle from the oysters, and break them into small pieces with a fork. Put the butter and half gill ofOYSTERS 66 oyster liquor next into the pan, and when boiling, add one ounce of flour, and mix with a spoon until smooth and the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the pan. Then add the oysters and cream, season well, and mix thoroughly. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and allow it to cool for at least half an hour. When cold and firm, divide this into eight or ten portions, and shape each one like a cutlet (see Lobster Cutlets, No. 58), using a little flour to prevent the mixture from sticking to the hands and board. Then egg and bread crumb them (see Recipe 131), and fry in boiling fat until of a golden brown colour. Drain well on kitchen paper, and put a small piece of parsley stalk into the end of each to imitate the bone of the cutlet. Put a dish paper or d’oyley on to a hot dish, and dish the cutlets in a circle, one leaning against the other. Garnish with fried parsley (see Recipe 137). Method— Scald the oysters in their own liquor, and drain well. Put them on to a plate, and season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a little grated lemon rind. Make some frying batter (Recipe No. 139), dip each oyster into this, and fry a nice brown colour in boiling 66.-OYSTERS (TO FRY). (Fr. Beignets d’Huitres.) Oysters. Chopped Parsley. Grated Lemon Rind. Pepper and Salt. Frying Batter.OYSTERS 67 fat. Drain on kitchen paper, serve piled high on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. 67.-OYSTERS (SCALLOPED). (Fr. Coquilles d’Huitres). Ingredients— 1 dozen Oysters. Bread Crumbs. 1 oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. Grated Nutmeg or Lemon Juice. Method— Put the oysters and their liquor into a small sauce- pan, and bring them to the boil. Remove the beards from the oysters, which is the part like a fringe which encircles them, and strain the liquor. Grease some china, or well-washed oyster shells. Sprinkle first into each a few bread crumbs, then put in two or three oysters. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Pour over a little of the oyster liquor or cream, cover with more bread crumbs, and pour some melted butter over the top. Brown quickly in the oven or in front of the fire, and serve very hot. Garnish them with small slices of cut lemon and sprigs of parsley. 68.—OYSTER SOUFFLES (BAKED). (Fr. Petits Souffles d’Huitres). Ingredients— i£ dozen Oysters. 1 Whiting. 2 Eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls Cream. White Pepper and Salt. A pinch of Cayenne. A pinch of 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Bread Crumbs. 1 gill Oyster Liquor, Milk, or Fish Stock. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. Nutmeg.-05 PERCH 69 Method— Put the oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, bring to the boil and strain. Then remove the gristle, and break them into small pieces with a fork. Scrape the flesh from the whiting, free it from all skin and bone, and pound well in a mortar. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the oyster liquor and bread crumbs, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens. Add this panada to the whiting in the mortar, pound again for a few minutes, and then rub through a fine wire sieve (see No. 134). Put the sieved mixture into a basin, and add the oysters, yolks of eggs, seasoning, and cream. Mix well. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth on a plate, and stir them lightly into the mixture with an iron spoon. Pour into small greased souffld cases, china or paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve quickly. 69.—PERCH (TO STEW WITH WINE). (Fr. Perche au Vin Blanc.) Ingredients— 3 or 4 Perch. White Stock and Sherry. 2 Bay Leaves. A few Parsley Stalks. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy 1 small Onion. Essence. 2 or 3 Cloves. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. 1 teaspoonful Pepper and Salt. Method— Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scrape well to re- move the scales, and cut off the fins. Lay the perch in a . 8■«0Q PIKE 7o Frying Fat. stewpanwith equal quantities of sherry and stock to cover them. Add the bay leaves, cloves, parsley stalks, and onion thinly sliced. Season with pepper and salt, put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly until tender, about twenty minutes. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a hot dish, and strain the liquid into a basin. Put the butter into the pan, and let it melt over the fire. Add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour in the strained liquor, add the anchovy essence, and stir over the fire until boiling. The sauce must be of a consistency to coat the fish. If too thin, allow it to reduce for a few minutes; if too thick, add more stock or sherry. Pour this over the fish, and serve hot. Note.—Perch may also be boiled or fried. 70.—PIKE (STUFFED AND BAKED). (Fr. Brochet Farci au Four.) Prepare and cook in the same way as Stuffed and Baked Haddock (see Recipe 35). Method— Wash and clean the fish well. Scrape the skin from the tail to the head, so as to remove all the scales, and 71.—PLAICE (TO FRY)—I. (Fr. Plie Frite.) Required— 1 Plaice. 2 tablespoonfuls Flour. Pepper and Salt. A little Milk.72 PLAICE cut off the head and fins. Dry the fish thoroughly in a cloth, and cut it right through the bone, into four or five pieces. Put the flour on one plate and a little milk on another, and dip each piece of fish first into flour, then into the milk, and into the flour again. Fry a nice brown colour in boiling fat (see French Frying, page vii.), and drain well on kitchen paper. Serve piled high on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Method— Fillet, but do not skin the fish, and dry the pieces well in a cloth. Trim them neatly, and cut each piece across into two or three pieces. Dip the pieces first into a little flour, coating them very lightly ; then egg and bread crumb them (see No. 131). Fry to a nice brown colour in boiling fat, and drain well on kitchen paper. Serve piled high on a hot dish with a paper under them, and garnish with parsley. 72.—PLAICE (TO FRY)—II. (Fr. Plie Frite.) Required— 1 Plaice. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. 73.—PLAICE (TO STEW). (Fr. Plie au Jus.) Ingredients— 1 Plaice. 2 tablesp. Bread Crumbs. 1 des.-spoonful chopped 1 gill Milk. 1 gill Water, l oz. Butter, Parsley. Pepper and Salt^ STUFFED AND BAKED PLAICE 74 Method— Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scraping the skin well from the tail towards the head. Cut off the head and fins, and dry in a cloth. Cut the plaice right through the bone, into three or four pieces, and place these in a stewpan. Pour the milk and water over them, put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly until cooked, about a quarter of an hour. Lift the pieces carefully out on to a hot dish, arranging them in the form of the fish again, and keep hot over a pan of boiling water. Add the bread crumbs and butter to the liquid in the stewpan, and stir over the fire until this boils, and the bread crumbs thicken the sauce. Add parsley, pepper, and salt at the last, and pour over the fish. Garnish with some small sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. 74.—STUFFED AND BAKED PLAICE. (Fr. Plie Farcie au Four.) Ingredients— 1 Plaice. 3 tablespoonfuls Bread Crumbs. 1 tablespoonful chopped Suet or Melted Butter. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Method— Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scraping the skin well from tail to head. Cut off the fins and the head, and dry the fish in a cloth. To make the stuffing, put the bread crumbs, pars- ley, pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind into a basin. Add the suet finely chopped, or the butter A little grated Lemon Rind. Some Milk. Pepper and Salt. 1 tablespoonful browned Bread Crumbs. 1 oz. of Dripping.75 -«o4 PLAICE WITH TOMATOES melted, and enough milk to bind all together. Do not make the mixture too damp. If liked, a small quantity of powdered herbs or finely chopped onion may be added, and sometimes oatmeal is used instead of bread crumbs. Make a slit down the centre of the fish on the black skin side, right down to the bone. Slip the knife in close to the bone, and raise up the flesh on both sides, making pockets so to speak. Put the stuffing into this, and pile it rather high in the centre. Melt the dripping in a Yorkshire pudding tin, and lay the fish on to it. Brush over with a little of the melted dripping, and sprinkle with the browned bread crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour, basting occasionally with the dripping. It will be ready when the skin begins to crack. Lift with a fish slice on to a hot dish, and pour brown, tomato, or anchovy sauce round (see Recipes for Sauces). Garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 75.—PLAICE WITH TOMATOES. (Fr. Plie aux Tomates.) Ingredients— i Plaice. 3 or 4 fresh Tomatoes. | Spanish Onion. Method— Wash and scrape the fish well, removing the head and fins. Score it across three times on each side with a knife. Skin the onion, and cut it into very thin slices. Put the tomatoes into boiling water for three or four minutes, then peel and slice them on a plate. Grease a fireproof dish with some of the 2 oz. Butter, i oz. Bread Crumbs. Pepper and Salt.76 RED MULLET AU GRATIN butter, and arrange half the tomato and onion on it, seasoning with pepper and salt. Lay the fish on this, and then the remainder of tomato and onion. Sprinkle with the bread crumbs more pepper and salt, and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven from half to three- quarters of an hour, and serve hot garnished with parsley. 76.—RED MULLET AU GRATIN. (Fr. Rougets au Gratin.) Ingredients— 2 Red Mullets. £ glass of Sherry. 1 teaspoonful Ketchup. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Sauce. 3 or 4 Button Mush- rooms. 1 oz. Butter. Pepper 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. | teaspoonful chopped Onion. Grated rind of | a Lemon. 1 tablespoonful browned Bread Crumbs, d Salt. Method— Wash and clean the mullets, cutting off the heads and fins, and dry them in a cloth. Grease a gratin dish or ashet with some of the butter, and sprinkle over it half of the chopped parsley, mushrooms, and onion, and a little grated lemon rind. Score the fish across once or twice with a knife, and lay them on the top. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and the remainder of the chopped ingredients. Pour over the wine, ketchup, and anchovy sauce, and cover with browned bread crumbs. Put the rest of the butter in small77 RED MULLETS pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. Wipe the dish, and garnish with parsley before serving. 77.—RED MULLETS (GRILLED). (Fr. Rougets Grilles.) Prepare and cook in the same way as Grilled Herring (see Recipes 47, 48). 78.—SALMON (TO BOIL). (Fr. Saumon Bouilli.) Sauce- Melted Butter. Lobster, Parsley, Shrimp, Oyster, or Hollandaise Sauce (see Recipes for Sauces). Method- Boil and serve according to directions given for Boiled Cod (see Recipe 4). A dish of dressed cucumber or green peas should accompany Boiled Salmon. Required- Salmon. Boiling Water. Salt. Vinegar. 79.-SALMON CUTLETS. (Fr. Cotelettes de Saumon.) Ingredients— \ lb. cooked Salmon. 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. 1 gill Milk or Fish Stock. 1 teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Egg and Bread Crumbs. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. A little grated Lemon Rind. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. Pepper and Salt. Method— Make in the same way as Fish Cutlets (Recipe 21).8o -OS SALMON 80.—SALMON (TO GRILL IN PAPER). (Fr. Saumon Grille en Papillotes.) Required— Slices of Salmon. Pepper and Salt Salad Oil or melted White Paper. Butter. Method— Cut the salmon into slices about an inch in thickness, and season with pepper and salt. Wrap each slice in a piece of well-greased white paper, twisting the edges to make it secure. Make the grill thoroughly hot, and broil the salmon over or in front of a clear fire. About fifteen minutes will be required for cooking. Serve very hot. Tartare, caper, horse-radish, or any other suitable sauce should accompany this dish (see Recipes for Sauces). 81.—SALMON (MAYONNAISE OF). (Fr. Mayonnaise de Saumon.) Required— A middle cut of Salmon. Mayonnaise Sauce. Aspic Jelly. Decorations— Lobster Coral, Truffle, Parsley, Lettuce, En- dive, or Cucumber. Method- Boil a nice cut of salmon (see Recipe 4), remove the skin, and let it become cold. Put it on to a clean dish, and coat with thick Mayonnaise sauce (see Recipe 120), to which liquid aspic has been added§2 <«£SCALLOPED SCALLOPS in the proportion of half gill to half pint of sauce. Use the sauce in a setting condition, covering the fish all over, and then set aside until firm. Garnish with any- thing suitable, such as lobster coral, truffle, parsley, lettuce, endive, cucumber, &c. A border of chopped aspic will make a pretty finish to the dish. Notes.—Remains of cold salmon may be used for this dish. The fish ought to be flaked, piled high on a dish, and then coated with sauce. Method— Choose perfectly fresh scallops, open and remove them from the shells. Cut off the beards and black part, and wash them thoroughly. Wash and scrub the deeper shells and dry them. Grease them with butter, and sprinkle a few white bread crumbs over. Lay three scallops into each shell, and season them with pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a little chopped parsley. Cover with more bread crumbs, and put some small pieces of butter on the top. Brown quickly in a hot oven or before the fire. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. 82.—SCALLOPED SCALLOPS. Required- Scallops. Pepper and Salt. Lemon Juice. White Bread Crumbs. A little chopped Parsley. Butter.83 SPOTTED SHRIMPS 83.—POTTED SHRIMPS. (Fr. Terrine de Crevettes.) Ingredients— £ pint picked Shrimps. 2 oz. Fresh Butter. Pepper and Salt. Method— Cayenne. A pinch of Nutmeg. A pinch of Mace. Put the picked shrimps into a saucepan with the seasonings and most of the butter. Heat gradually over the fire, but do not boil. Pack into small pots, and when cold pour the rest of the butter melted over the top. 84.—SKATE (TO BOIL). {Fr. Raie Bouillie.) Required— Skate. Anchovy, Shrimp, Caper, Boiling Water. or Piquante Sauce. Vinegar. Method— Clean and skin the skate. Cook and serve according to directions given for Boiled Cod {see Recipe 4). Any suitable sauce may be served with it. Note.—Skate is better to be kept for a day or two before being used. It should never be used out of season. 85.—CRIMPED SKATE. (Fr. Raie Tailladee.) Method— Skin the skate, and cut it lengthways into strips about one inch and a half wide. Roll these up86 403 smelts and tie them with thread, or fix with a small wooden skewer. The crimping should be done as soon after the fish is dead as possible, but not before. Crimped skate may be boiled, baked, or fried, and served with any suitable fish sauce. Method— Smelts should be very fresh, not washed more than necessary, and the insides carefully drawn out. Dry them in a cloth, and toss lightly in flour. Then egg and bread crumb them, or egg and flour them again instead of bread crumbing. Put them into boiling fat, and fry a pale brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve piled high on a hot dish with a d’oyley under them, and garnish with parsley. This fish is often used as a garnish to other fish. 87.—SMELTS AU GRATIN. (Fr. Eperlans au Gratin.) Prepare and cook in the same way as Red Mullets au Gratin (see Recipe 76). 86.—SMELTS (FRIED). (Fr. Eperlans Frits.) Required— Smelts. Flour. Pepper and Salt. Beaten Egg. Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Required— Small Soles. A little Flour. 88.-SOLES (TO FRY)—I. (Fr. Soles Frites.) Pepper and Salt. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat.89 <0$ SOLE Frying Fat. Method— When soles are very small they may be fried whole. Wash and clean them thoroughly, removing the skin, then cut off the heads and fins, and dry well in a cloth. Put a little flour on to a plate, mix with pepper and salt, and dip the fish into this, coating them lightly. Then egg and bread crumb (see No. 131), and fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, page vii.) until well browned. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Method- Skin and fillet the fish (see page ix.), and wipe the fillets with a damp cloth. Trim neatly, and cut them across in a slanting direction into two or three pieces. Dip each piece into flour, mixed with pepper and salt, shaking them lightly to get rid of all loose flour. Then egg and bread crumb (see No. 131), and fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, page vii.) until of a golden brown colour. Drain well on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Maitre d’hotel butter (see Recipe 135), made up into small pats, may be served separately. 89.—SOLE (TO FRY)—II. (Fr. Sole Frite.) Required— 1 Sole. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Egg and Bread Crumbs.90 ■*>q SOLE go.—SOLE (TO FRY)—III. (Fr. Sole Frite.) Required— i Sole. A little Flour. Pepper and Salt. Frying Batter. Frying Fat. Method— Prepare the fish as in last recipe, but instead of egging and bread crumbing it, dip the pieces in frying batter (see Recipe 139), and fry in boiling fat. Serve and garnish the same as before. Method— Prepare and cook in the same way as Sole au Par- mesan (Recipe 94), omitting the cheese and adding a little cream to the sauce. Decorate with chopped parsley, chopped truffle, hard-boiled and sieved yolk of egg or lobster coral, or alternate strips of each. 91.—SOLE A LA BECHAMEL. (Fr. Sole & la Bdchamel.) Ingredients— 1 Sole. ^ oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. gills Fish Stock. Decoration. x tablespoonful Cream. Pepper and Salt. A squeeze of Lemon Juice.92 ■*>5 SOLE AU GRATIN 92.—SOLE AU GRATIN. (Fr. Sole au Gratin.) Ingredients— 1 Sole. 1 des.-spoonful chopped Parsley. 6 Button Mushrooms. 1 Shalot finely chopped. \ oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt Lemon Juice. 1 tablespoonful browned Bread Crumbs. 3 tablespoonfuls Brown Sauce or melted Glaze. Method— Clean the sole, remove the black skin, and cut off the head and fins. Grease a gratin dish, and sprinkle over it half of the chopped parsley, shalot, and mush- rooms. Score the sole across on both sides, and lay it on the dish with the white skin downwards. Sprinkle the rest of the chopped ingredients on the top, and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Sometimes a little wine is added. Cover with the brown raspings, and put on the butter in small pieces. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. When ready, pour the melted glaze or brown sauce round, and serve on the same dish in which it was cooked. A few button mushrooms may be used as a garnish. 93.—SOLE A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. (.Fr. Sole & la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients— 1 Sole. | oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. 1^ gills Fish Stock. 1 tablespoonful finely chopped Parsley. Pepper and Salt. Lemon Juice.94 ^ FILLETS OF SOLE AU PARMESAN Method— Prepare and cook in the same way as Sole au Par- mesan (Recipe 94), adding chopped parsley instead of cheese to the sauce. 94.—FILLETS OF SOLE AU PARMESAN. (Fr. Filets de Sole au Parmesan.) Ingredients— 1 Sole. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. Pepper and Salt. A pinch of Cayenne. Method— £ oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. gills Fish Stock. A little Lemon Juice. Skin and fillet the fish (see page ix.). Wash the trimmings and bones, and put them into a saucepan with one gill of water and one gill of milk, a small piece of onion, a bay leaf, a blade of mace, and some parsley stalks. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, and strain ready for use. Trim the fillets neatly, and lay them on a board with the side from which the skin was taken uppermost. Season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Double each fillet over lengthways, place them on a greased baking tin, cover with greased paper, and bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare the sauce by melting the butter first in a small saucepan, add to it the flour, and mix together with a wooden spoon until smooth; pour in the fish stock, and stir until boiling. Boil for two or three minutes, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and cayenne. The sauce must be thick enough to coat the fish. Add most of the cheese to the sauce, but do not boil again. Dish the fillets on a hot95 SOLE A LA ROUENNAISE ashet, one leaning against the other; pour the sauce over, and sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the top. Brown in the oven or with a salamander, and serve hot. 95.-SOLE A LA ROUENNAISE. (Fr. Sole k la Rouennaise.) Ingredients— 1 Sole. Pepper and Salt. Lemon Juice. Lobster Cutlet Mixture. Cardinal or White Sauce. Method— Prepare and season the same as in last recipe, but before doubling them over, put a little lobster cutlet mixture (see Recipe 58) on to each. Double over, and shape the pieces neatly. Place them on a greased baking tin, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Lift out and dish the pieces, one overlapping the other, on a hot dish. Coat them with white or cardinal sauce (see Recipes for Sauces) made of stock from fish bones. Decorate with chopped truffle, parsley, or lobster coral, and serve hot. 96.—TROUT (TO BAKE). (Fr. Truite Rotie.) Required— Trout. A squeeze of Lemon A little Butter. Juice. Pepper and Salt. Method— Thoroughly clean the fish, and lay it on a greased tin or dish. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and97 BROILED TROUT squeeze over a little lemon juice. Cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve hot, garnished with thin slices of lemon. 97.—BROILED TROUT. (Fr> Truite Grillee.) Required— Trout. I Pepper and Salt. Lemon Juice. | Cayenne. Salad Oil. Method— Clean the trout thoroughly, and dry them well in a cloth. Split them open, remove the bone, and season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Then rub over with salad oil, and broil in front or over a clear fire from five to ten minutes, according to the size of the fish (see page ix.). Serve very hot. Any suitable fish sauce may be served along with them. 98—TROUT (TO FRY). (Fr. Truite Frite.) Required— Trout. A little Flour. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Pepper and Salt. Frying Fat. Method— Clean the fish thoroughly, split them in half, and remove the bone. Then dry the pieces in a cloth, F99 ^ TURBOT and coat lightly with flour mixed with pepper and salt. Egg and bread crumb, and fry in hot fat (see French Frying, page vii.) until a nice brown colour. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with fried parsley. 99.—TURBOT (TO BOIL). (Fr. Turbot Bouilli.) Required— Turbot. Warm Water the fish. Salt in the proportion of to cover \ lb. to each gallon of water. A little Lemon Juice. Method— Choose a thick medium-sized turbot. If too large, the flesh will be tough. Thoroughly clean the fish, and let it lie in salt and water for one hour before cooking it, to take off the slime. Then rinse in clean cold water. Do not cut off the fins, as they are con- sidered a delicacy. Rub the turbot all over with lemon juice to keep the flesh firm and white, and make two or three notches in the skin to prevent it cracking. Put it into a fish or turbot kettle with sufficient warm water to cover it, and salt in the above proportion. Bring it slowly to the boil, and skim well. Simmer very gently for twenty minutes or longer until the flesh comes away easily from the bone. When done, lift it out, and drain well. Serve on a hot dish with a fish d’oyley under it, and garnish with tufts of parsley, cut lemon, and lobster coral. Lobster or shrimp sauce should accompany it100 BAKED FILLETS OF TURBOT ioo.—BAKED FILLETS OF TURBOT. (Ar. Filets de Turbot d. PItalienne or k la Genoise.) Ingredients— 2 lbs. Turbot. I Lemon Juice. Pepper and Salt. | Genoese or Italian Sauce. Decoration—Lobster Coral or Chopped Parsley. Method— Clean the turbot, and cut it into neat little fillets, free from skin and bone. Lay these on a greased baking tin, and season them with white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Cover over with a piece of greased paper, and cook them in the oven for about twenty minutes. Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, one leaning against the other, and coat them with Genoese or Italian sauce (see Recipes for Sauces). Decorate with finely chopped parsley or lobster coral. ior.—WATER SOUCHEE. (Fr. Poisson en Souchee.) Ingredients— i lb. Fish, such as Flounders, Perch, or Eels. i pint cold Water. Method— A few Parsley Roots. 6 Peppercorns, i teaspoonful Salt, i teasp. chopped Parsley. Put the water into a saucepan, and bring it to the boil. Add the salt, peppercorns, and the parsley roots, washed and shredded. Simmer until the roots are tender, about three-quarters of an hour. Have the102 WHITEBAIT fish well washed, cleaned, and cut into small neat pieces. Put it into the saucepan, put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently until the fish is cooked, about three-quarters of an hour, but this varies according to the kind of fish used. Lift out on to a hot dish, add the chopped parsley to the liquor in the pan, and pour it over the fish. Serve hot in a deep dish. 102.-WHITEBAIT (TO FRY). (Fr. Blanchailles Frites.) Required- Whitebait. | Flour. Method— These fish must be perfectly fresh, and should be carefully looked over and put into water with a lump of ice in it, and kept there until required. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat or oil (see French Frying, page vii.). Put two or three tablespoon- fuls of flour on the centre of a clean cloth, drain some of the whitebait free from water in a colander, and then shake them lightly in the flour. Empty the bait without delay into a frying basket, and shake well to let the loose flour drop out. Plunge it into the hot fat, and fry till brown and crisp. Drain and serve on a hot dish with a fish d’oyley under them. Pile them high, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Thin brown bread and butter should be handed separately. Success in frying whitebait depends on little and light handling, quick flouring, and hot fat. When properly done, the whitebait should be crisp, and each fish distinct and separate.103 •4>5 WHITEBAIT I03.—WHITEBAIT (DEVILLED). (Fr. Blanchailles a la Diable ) Prepare in the same way as last recipe. Sprinkle with white pepper and a little cayenne before frying. Method— Skin the whiting, cut off the heads, and clean them thoroughly. Put a little flour on to a plate, about one teaspoonful for each whiting; mix with it some white pepper and salt, and coat each of the fish with this. Grease a fireproof or gratin dish with butter, and lay the fish on to it. Sprinkle some lemon juice or a few drops of vinegar over them, and put some more butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes, and serve hot, gar- nished with parsley. 104.—WHITING (TO BAKE). {Fr. Merlan Roti.) Required— Whiting. A little Butter. Flour. Lemon Juice. Pepper and Salt. 105.—'WHITING (TO FRY). (Fr. Merlan Frit.) Required— Whiting. Flour. Pepper and Salt. Egg and Bread Crumbs. Frying Fat. Parsley to garnish.io6 ^ WHITING Method- Small whiting are generally fried whole. Skin and clean them thoroughly, but do not cut off the heads. Put a little flour (one teaspoonful for each whiting) on to a plate, and mix with it some pepper and salt. Dip each fish into this, and coat them lightly. This dries the fish, and makes it fry a better colour. Then egg and bread crumb them {see No. 131), and press the crumbs well on with a knife. Fasten the tail through the eye, and fry them to a nice brown colour in hot fat (iw French Frying, page vii.). Drain on kitchen paper, serve on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 135) made into small pats may be served separately. Method— Skin the fish, and cut it into neat sized pieces, or fillet it and roll the fillets up. Grease a soup plate or muffin dish, and place the pieces of fish on this. Sprinkle with salt and white pepper, and squeeze over some lemon juice, which helps to keep the fish white and firm. Cover with a piece of greased paper, and then with a lid or basin. Place this over a pan h3.1f full of boiling water, and see that the plate fits 106.—WHITING (TO STEAM). Required— Whiting. Lemon Juice. Pepper and Salt. A littte Butter. Parsley to garnish. White Sauce (?).107 ANCHOVY SAUCE the pan well. Let the water underneath boil quickly, so that there may be plenty of steam, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, until the fish loses its clear transparent appearance, and looks quite white. If the pieces are thick, turn them once during the cooking. Lift the fish on to a hot dish, and pour round it the juice that has run from it, or make some white sauce (see Recipe 130), add this juice to it, and then pour over the fish. Garnish with chopped parsley or lobster coral, and serve hot. SAUCES. 107.—ANCHOVY SAUCE. (Fr. Beurre d’Anchois.) Ingredients— £ oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. | pint Fish Stock or 1 gill of Milk and 1 gill of Water. 1 dessert-spoonful An- chovy Essence. White Pepper and Salt to taste. Method- Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire without discolouring, and then draw the pan to the side before adding the liquid. Fish stock will give the sauce a better flavour; but if that is not to be had, use milk and water. Add the liquid gradually, then return the pan to the fire, and keep stirring constantly until boiling. Add the anchovy essence, and season to taste with white pepper and salt.io8 *©$ BROWN SAUCE Note.—Preserved anchovies may be used instead of the anchovy essence. Three or four will be required for the above quantity of sauce. Lift them out of the oil in which they are preserved, dip them for a minute into warm water, and then scrape off the silver skin. Pound them in a mortar, and rub through a wire or hair sieve. Scrape the sieve well underneath, and add this paste to the sauce. 108.—BROWN SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Espagnole.) Ingredients— i oz. Butter or Dripping, i oz. Flour, i pint Brown Stock, i small Onion. A small piece of Carrot and Turnip, i stick of Celery or ^ teasp. Celery Seed. Method— Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and let it brown. Add the onion, skinned and cut in thin slices, and keep stirring with an iron spoon until it is brown. Add the flour, and brown it also. Then draw the pan to one side, pour in the stock, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil for a few minutes, and remove all scum with an iron spoon. Have the other vegetables prepared and cut small, and add them next with the other seasonings. If celery seed is used, tie it in a piece of muslin. Simmer the sauce slowly i des.-sp. Ketchup, i teasp. Harvey’s Sauce. A small sprig of Thyme, Parsley, and Marjoram, i Bay Leaf, i blade of Mace. 3 or 4 Cloves. Pepper and Salt.lop CAPER SAUCE for at least half an hour, stirring occasionally, and skimming when necessary. Strain through a fine strainer, sieve, or tammy cloth, and reheat before using. Note.—If the stock used is well flavoured, some of the seasonings and vegetables may be omitted. 109.—CAPER SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce aux Capres.) Ingredients— | oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. | pint Milk or Fish Stock. 1 tablespoonful Capers. 1 tablespoonful Vinegar. White Pepper and Salt. Method— Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, being careful it does not brown. Add the flour, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Cook a minute or two, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and pour in the stock or milk. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the capers, roughly chopped, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Boil two or three minutes longer, and add the vinegar last. HO.—CARDINAL SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Cardinale.) Ingredients— 1 oz. Butter. \ oz. Flour. | pint Fish Stock or Milk. Some Lobster Spawn. 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls Cream. White Pepper and Salt. A squeeze of Lemon Juice.Ill CURRY SAUCE Method— Wash the lobster spawn, and drain well. Pound it in a mortar with quarter ounce of the butter, and then rub it through a hair sieve. Melt the remainder of the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Cook for a minute or two, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and pour in the milk or stock. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the lobster butter, cream, and seasoning, and boil a few minutes longer. The lobster butter will immediately turn the sauce a pretty red colour. Squeeze in the lemon juice last, and strain or tammy before using. hi.—CURRY SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce au Cari.) Ingredients— i oz. Butter or Dripping. | oz. Rice [Flour. 3 gills of Fish Stock, i Onion, i lump of Sugar. A squeeze i teaspoonful Curry Powder. i teaspoonful Chutney. x small Apple. Pepper and Salt, of Lemon Juice. Method— Peel and chop the apple, and skin and slice the onion very thinly. Melt the butter or dripping in a small stewpan, put in the apple and onion, and fry them for a few minutes. Next add the curry powder, rice flour, and chutney, and mix well together with aq112 DUTCH SAUCE iron spoon. Add the stock, and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and let the sauce simmer for half an hour, or until the apple and onion are quite soft. If a smooth sauce is wanted, rub through a sieve before using, and return to the sauce- pan to reheat. Add the lemon juice and sugar just before serving, and a tablespoonful of cream would be a great improvement. Note.—A stalk of rhubarb, or a few green goose- berries, may be used instead of the apple. 112.—DUTCH SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Hollandaise.) Ingredients— 2 oz. Butter. 1 tablespoonful Vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls Water. 2 yolks of Eggs. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. Salt and Pepper. A pinch of Cayenne. Method— Put the water, vinegar, and yolks of eggs into a saucepan, place the pan in another saucepan of hot water, and stir over the fire constantly until the sauce thickens. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the butter in small pieces, letting each piece melt before another is added. The sauce must not boil, or it will curdle. Add the lemon juice, and season to taste. Tarragon may be used instead of plain vinegar, and is preferred by many.EGG SAUCE ii3 113.—EGG SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce aux CEufs.) Ingredients— f 3 oz. Butter, gills Milk or Fish Sauce. Salt. | oz. Flour. 1 hard-boiled Egg. White Pepper. Method— Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two without browning, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and pour in the milk. Return the pan to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Chop the hard-boiled egg finely, and add it to the sauce, with white pepper and salt to taste. Boil two or three minutes longer, and the sauce is ready. Note.—A plainer sauce may be made by using half water and half milk. Sometimes the white only of the egg is used, and the yolk rubbed through a sieve, and used to decorate whatever the sauce is poured over. 114.—GENOESE SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Genoise.) Ingredients— | pint Brown Sauce. 1 tablespoonful Port Wine. 1 des.-spoonful chopped Parsley. A pinch o: Pepper and Salt. 1 teaspoonful Ketchup. £ teaspoonful Anchovy Essence, f oz. Butter. Cayenne.GOOSEBERRY SAUCE US Method— Put the brown sauce (see Recipe 108) into a sauce- pan, and add to it the ketchup, anchovy essence, and port wine. Boil for a few minutes, and then draw the pan to the side of the fire. Add the parsley and the butter in small pieces, letting each piece melt before another is added. Strain before using. 115.—GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce aux Groseilles.) Ingredients— £ pint Green Goose- berries. i gill White Sauce, i dessert-spoonful Sugar. i oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. A pinch of Nutmeg. \ gill of Water. Method— Top and tail the gooseberries, and wash them in cold water. Put them into a stewpan with half a gill of cold water, put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly for half an hour, or until the gooseberries are quite soft, then rub through a hair sieve. Put the white sauce into a saucepan, add to it the gooseberry pulp, the butter and seasoning, mix well together, and stir over the fire until boiling. Note.—Rhubarb sauce may be made in the same way.n6 FRENCH WHITE SAUCE 116.—FRENCH WHITE SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce k la Bechamel.) Ingredients— oz. Butter. 11 oz. Flour, i pint Fish Stock or Seasoned Milk (Note). \ gill of Cream. White Pepper and Salt A pinch of Cayenne. Method— Melt the butter in a lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire, but do not brown. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the stock or milk gradually, then return to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Add the cream and seasoning, and boil for a minute or two longer. Remove the pan from the fire before adding the lemon juice, and strain before using. More or less milk may be added according to the thickness of sauce required. If considered too rich, the cream may be omitted. Seasoned Milk— Note.—Put as much milk as is required into a lined saucepan, with a small piece each of carrot, turnip, onion, celery, a bay leaf, and a few parsley stalks. Let the pan stand by the side of the fire until the milk is well seasoned, then strain and cool before using.ny ^ HORSE-RADISH SAUCE 117.—HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce au Raifort.) Ingredients— 2 tablespoonfuls grated Horse-radish. 2 tablesp. Vinegar. 1 teasp. Castor Sugar. 1 teasp. made Mustard. Pepper and Salt. Method— Wash and scrape the horse-radish until it is quite white, then grate it on a grater. Put it into a basin with the other ingredients, and mix well together. A little thick cream added is a great improvement. Serve in a sauce tureen. Note.—If this sauce is to be served with hot fish, heat by standing the basin containing it in a saucepan of hot water. Do not boil, or it will curdle. 118.—ITALIAN SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Italienne.) Ingredients— 1 pint Brown Sauce. 1 tablespoonful Sherry. 1 des.-spoonful chopped Shalot. 1 des.-spoonful chopped Mushrooms. Method— Melt the outter in a small saucepan, and fry the shalot and mushrooms for a few minutes without ■§• oz. Butter. A sprig of Thyme. 1 Bay Leaf. Pepper and Salt. 1 dessert-spoonful Ket- chup.119 -■0$ LOBSTER SAUCE browning. Add the other ingredients, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Skim well, and strain or tammy before using. 119.—LOBSTER SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce au Homard.) Required— 1 pint Cardinal Sauce. | 1 small Lobster. Method— Cut the lobster meat into small pieces, and add it to the cardinal sauce (see Recipe 11 o). Note.—Tinned lobster may be used. 120.—MAYONNAISE SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Mayonnaise.) Ingredients— 2 yolks of Eggs. About 1 gill Salad Oil. 1 tab.sp. White Vinegar. 1 tablespoonful Tarra- gon Vinegar. 1 teasp. Chili Vinegar. | teasp. made Mustard. A pinch of Sugar. „ „ Cayenne. White Pepper and Salt. Method— Take a basin large enough to hold 1^ pints (the size of the basin is important) and twist round the foot of it a cloth wrung out of very cold water to keep it steady and cool while mixing the sauce. Divide the yolks very carefully from the whites of the eggs, and120 MAYONNAISE SAUCE put them into the basin with the pepper, salt, mustard, and sugar. (The sugar may be omitted if not liked.) Mix these well together with a wooden spoon or small wire whisk. Cut a small wedge from the cork of the salad oil bottle, large enough to allow the oil to come out, drop by drop, when it is held up. Keep stirring the yolks all the time with the right hand and drop- ping the oil in from the bottle with the left until the sauce is so thick that it is stirred with difficulty. One gill is about the usual quantity required for two yolks, but there is no necessity to measure it. Next add the vinegars gradually, and mix well. Notes.—If this sauce is not kept cool, or the oil mixed in too quickly, it will curdle. It cannot be made in a hurry. If it should curdle, the fault may be remedied by putting a fresh yolk into another basin and adding the sauce very slowly to it, stirring all the time. A whiter sauce can be made by using lemon juice instead of vinegar. More or less vinegar may be added to the sauce, according to taste, and according to the purpose for which it is to be used. If used for dressing a salad, it should be thinned down considerably with vinegars. If used for coating anything such as salmon, a little liquid aspic is usually added to make it stiffen. If this sauce has to be kept for several hours before using, cover the basin containing it with a cloth wrung out of very cold water. This will prevent a skin forming on the top. If bottled and kept in a cool dark place it will be good for a week or longer, and is useful for salad dressings. Be particular to use good oil. / G121 -«©S MELTED BUTTER If the taste of the oil is not liked, two tablespoonfuls of thick whipped cream may be stirred into the sauce at the last, which will tone down the taste. Or thick whipped cream may be used instead of half the oil, if the latter is very much disliked. Green Mayonnaise is made by adding spinach green to the sauce. Red Mayonnaise is made by adding lobster coral, pounded and rubbed through a sieve. 121.—MELTED BUTTER. (Fr. Beurre Fondu.) Ingredients— ^ lb. Fresh Butter. 1 A squeeze of Lemon Pepper and Salt. | Juice. Method— Put the butter into a lined saucepan, and melt it gently over a slow lire. It should not lose its creamy appearance. Add the lemon juice and a little pepper and salt. Serve in a hot sauce tureen. 122.—ENGLISH MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce au Beurre.) Ingredients— 2 oz. Butter. f oz. Flour. 1 pint Water. White Pepper and Salt.123 •*>$ MUSTARD SAUCE Method— Melt half the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and pour in the water, then return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Boil a minute or two, to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Just before serving, add the remainder of the butter broken in small pieces. 123.—MUSTARD SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Moutarde.) Ingredients— 1 oz. Butter. 1 teaspoonful Flour. 1 teasp. dry Mustard. 1 teasp. Chili Vinegar. 1 gill Water. Salt. Method— Melt the butter in a small saucepan without dis- colouring it, add the flour and mustard, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Pour in the water, stir until boiling, and cook three minutes. Add the vine- gar and salt, and serve hot. 124.—OYSTER SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce aux Huitres.) Ingredients— 1 oz. Butter. 1 oz. Flour. | pint Milk or Fish Stock. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. 1 doz. Oysters and their Liquor. £ gill Cream. White Pepper and Salt. A pinch of Cayenne.125 PARSLEY SAUCE Method- Remove the beard and gristle from the oysters. The beard is the part like a fringe that encircles the oyster, and the gristle is hard and white. Cut each oyster in two, and scald them in their own liquor—that is, bring them to the boil and strain. (Keep the liquor for flavouring the sauce.) Put the beards and trimmings of the oysters into a saucepan with the milk, and simmer for a few minutes to extract the flavour. Then strain the milk and oyster liquor through muslin, and keep them for making the sauce. The trimmings of the oysters may now be thrown away. Rinse out the saucepan, and melt in it the butter, add the flour, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and pour in the strained milk and oyster liquor, then return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the cream, and boil again. Season to taste with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add the oysters and lemon juice last. 125.-PARSLEY SAUCE. {Fr. Sauce k la Maitre d’Hotel.) Ingredients— £ oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. | pint Milk or 1 gill of Milk and 1 gill of Water. 1 des.-spoonful chopped Parsley. White Pepper and Salt. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. Method— Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth.126 -OS REFORM SAUCE Cook for a minute or two over the fire, but do not discolour, then draw the pan to one side and pour in the milk or milk and water. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the parsley, pepper and salt, and boil two or three minutes longer. Squeeze in the lemon juice just before serving. Note.—If to be served with boiled fish, use some of the water in which the fish is cooked to make the sauce. 126.—REFORM SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Reforme.) Ingredients— £ pint Brown Sauce (Recipe 108). 1 tablesp. Red Currant Jelly. Method— Put the brown sauce into a saucepan and bring it to the boil, then stir in the red currant jelly, anchovy essence, and port wine. Let it boil about ten minutes, add a pinch of cayenne, and strain or tammy before using. £ gill Port Wine. 1 teaspoonful Anchovy Essence. A pinch of Cayenne. 127.—SHRIMP SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Ingredients— f oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. | pint Milk or Fish Stock. aux Crevettes.) 1 gill of picked Shrimps. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. Pepper and Salt.^ TARTARE SAUCE 128 Method- Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, and mix in the flour smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire without browning, then draw the pan to the side and pour in the stock or milk. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Pick the shrimps, and add them, with white pepper and salt to taste. Squeeze in the lemon juice before serving. 128.—TARTARE SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Ingredients— £ pint Mayonnaise Sauce. 1 tablespoonful chopped Parsley. Tartare.) 1 tablespoonful chopped Capers. 1 tablespoonful chopped Gherkins. Method- Make the Mayonnaise according to Recipe 120, and add to it the above ingredients. 129.—TOMATO SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce aux Ingredients— # oz. Butter or Drip- ping. f oz, Rice Flour. 4 or 5 Tomatoes. 1 oz lean Ham. £ pint Stock. Pepper and Salt T omates.) A small piece of Carrot, Turnip, and Celery. 1 Onion. A sprig of Thyme, Mar- joram, and Parsley. A squeeze of Lemon Juice.130 ^ WHITE SAUCE Method— Melt the butter or dripping in a small stewpan, put into it the ham and vegetables cut in small pieces, and fry them for a few minutes. Wipe the tomatoes, and cut them into slices on a plate. Add them next with the rice flour, mix well, and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Allow the sauce to simmer slowly for at least half an hour, stirring occasionally, and if it becomes too thick, add more stock. Strain through a fine strainer, hair sieve, or tammy, reheat, and add a squeeze of lemon juice. Note.—Tinned tomatoes may be used instead of fresh, and these will not require slicing. Celery seed may be used instead of fresh celery. 130.-WHITE SAUCE. (Fr. Sauce Blanche.) Ingredients— f oz. Butter. | oz. Flour. ^ pint Milk. White Pepper. Salt. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. Method— Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire without discolouring, then draw the pan to the side and pour in the milk. Return to the fire, and keep stirring constantly until^ WHITE SAUCE 130 boiling. Boil for two or three minutes so as to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Remove the pan from the fire before adding the lemon juice. Notes.—A plainer sauce can be made by using half milk and half water. If required for fish, fish stock may be used instead of milk. A sweet sauce can be made by using sugar instead of salt and pepper, and a little flavouring should be added. Cornflour is sometimes used instead of flour.I3I ^ TO EGG AND BREAD CRUMB MISCELLANEOUS. i3I.—TO EGG AND BREAD CRUMB. The bread crumbs for this purpose should be fine and dry. The simplest way to make them is to rub some rather stale bread through a wire sieve. From one to two breakfast-cupfuls will be required according to the number of articles to be coated, and for the sake of convenience have them on a good-sized sheet of white paper. The egg should be broken on to a plate, yolk and white together, and beaten with a fork until it ceases to be stringy. When eggs are expensive, and one is not sufficient, one or two tablespoonfuls of milk may be added instead of a second egg. Put the things to be egged one by one into the plate, and coat them all over with the egg, using a small brush. See that every part is well covered, or they will look patchy when fried. Do it quickly, otherwise the egg soaks in, and makes the things soft. Then drop the egged thing on to the top of the bread crumbs, lifting it with a knife. Cover it quite over with crumbs by jerking the sides of the paper, then press the crumbs on with the hands and shake the loose ones off. Lay the article down on a board, and with a flat knife press the crumbs well on and make the sides tidy. When ready, place on a plate or tin with double paper on it, and if time permits, allow the things thus prepared to stand a little while to harden before frying.132 ^ TO STEAM 132.—TO STEAM. The mould or basin used for steaming must be well greased with clarified butter (see No. 141), or melted dripping. Allow the grease to set before pouring in the mixture. If it is a light mixture with eggs only, half fill the mould. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top, which will prevent the steam spoiling the contents. Stand the mould or basin in a saucepan with hot water to reach half-way up the sides. Put a tight-fitting lid on the pan, and cook the required time. Should the water boil down, more must be added. 133.—RICE (TO BOIL FOR CURRIES). Required— Patna Rice. Salt. Boiling Water. Method— Patna rice is the best to use for curries. It is a long, slender grain, pointed at the ends. Well wash it in several waters until the last water that is poured off looks quite clean. Have ready on the fire a sauce- pan, three parts full of freshly boiling water, add salt to it in the proportion of one dessert-spoonful to a quart, and throw the rice into this. Boil quickly with the lid off, stirring it frequently with a fork to prevent it sticking to the pan, and also that it may get well tossed about with the water. Cook from twelve to fifteen minutes, or until the grains will rub down easily, when one is tested between the finger and thumb. Then strain through a sieve or strainer, and finish cooking and drying it, either by putting it back134 TO SIEVE into the saucepan by the side of the fire, or leaving it on the sieve, which may be placed either on the rack above the fire, or on a plate in a moderate oven. While drying, stir lightly with a fork, every now and then, to keep the grains separate. 134.—TO SIEVE. Always when sieving have two spoons in readiness, one to rub the mixture through with, and the other for scraping the sieve underneath. Stand the sieve with the narrower rim uppermost, and do not put too much of the mixture on at one time. For most mixtures iron spoons are to be preferred to wooden. Keep the fingers on the bowl of spoon, and use the edge for rubbing through with. Sieves should be well washed and brushed after using, and dried in a warm or airy place, and not too near a fire. 135.—MAITRE D’HOTEL BUTTER. Required— 1 oz. Butter. | 1 teasp. chopped Parsley. 1 teaspoonful Lemon Juice. Method— Put all on to a plate, and with a knife work them well together, to form a neat pat. Stand the plate slightly on end, that the lemon juice may run out of the butter again; and set in a cool place or on ice until wanted. The parsley should be very green and very finely chopped to make this butter look well.136 ^ FISH STOCK 136.—FISH STOCK. Ingredients— 2 lbs. of White Fish or Fish Bones and Trim- mings. 2 quarts Cold Water. 1 small Carrot. 1 small Turnip. 1 Onion. 1 stick of Celery or ^ tea- spoonful Celery Seed. 1 dessert-spoonful Salt. teaspoonful Mixed Herbs or a sprig of Thyme, Marjoram, and Basil. A few Parsley Stalks. 1 dozen Peppercorns. 3 Cloves. 1 blade of Mace. 1 Bay Leaf. Method— Any white fish or trimmings of white fish, such as haddocks, cod, halibut, plaice, flounder, ling, &c., may be used for fish stock. Fish such as mackerel, herring, and salmon are of too oily a nature, and too strong in flavour. By fish trimmings is meant the bones, heads, fins, and skins of fish. If a light- coloured stock is wanted, avoid using too much dark- coloured skin. Wash the fish or trimmings thoroughly in cold water, and cut them into small pieces. Put them into a fish kettle or large goblet with the water and salt. Put the lid on the pan, and bring to the boil; then skim well, and simmer about fifteen minutes before adding the vegetables. As more scum rises, remove it, or the stock will be cloudy in appearance. Prepare the vegetables, cut them rather small, and add them to the stock -with the herbs, celery seed, pepper- corns, &c., tied in a small piece of muslin. Simmer slowly from three to four hours, then strain into a basin.*37 <03 PARSLEY This stock may be used as a basis for all fish sauces. A whiter stock may be obtained by using half milk and half water, fewer vegetables, and by straining after half an hour’s slow simmering. 137.—PARSLEY (TO FRY). (Fr. Persil Frit.) Required— Parsley. | Boiling Fat or Oil. Method— Wash the parsley and pick it, leaving the stalks about an inch long. Let it lie between the folds of a cloth until dry, and then put it into a wire frying basket. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of deep fat or oil (see French Frying, p. vii.), deep enough to cover the parsley. Plunge the parsley into this for a second or two, and lift it out. The moisture in the parsley will make the fat bubble up, and if kept in too long will make the fat come over the sides of the pan. When the fat becomes quite still, plunge the parsley in again for a second or two, and it will be ready. It ought to be quite green and crisp. Turn out on to kitchen paper, and drain well. Note.—This is used as a garnish for fried dishes, such as fried fish, rissoles, croquettes, &c. 138.—USE OF THE TAMMY CLOTH FOR SAUCES. For this two people are required. The tammy cloth must be spread over a basin, and the sauceINDEX, WITH FRENCH RENDERING Barbel (Barbeau), page i. Bream (Breme), page i. Brill (Barbue), page ii. Carp (Carpe), page ii. ,, Stewed (Carpe au Jus), I ,, Stuffed and Baked (Carpe Farcie au Four), 2 Cod (Morue), page ii. ,, Baked in Batter, 3 ,, Boiled (Morue Bouillie), 4 ,, Stuffed and Baked (Morue Farcie au Four), 5 Cod’s Roe, To Boil (Laitances Bouillies), 6 ,, Fried (Laitances Frites), 7 Cod Sounds (Nau de Morue), 8 ,, Salt, with Egg Sauce (Morue Salee a la Sauce aux CEufs), 9 ,, ,, with Parsnip Puree (Morue a la Pur^e de Panais), 10 ,, Steaks (Filets de Morue), 11 Crabs (Crabe), page ii. ,, To Boil (Crabe Bouilli), 12 ,, Cold Dressed, 13 ,, Hot Dressed, 14 Crayfish (Ecrevisses), page ii. Eels (Anguilles), page ii. ,, Fried (Anguilles Frites), 15 „ Stewed (Anguilles au Jus), 16 Fish Cakes—I. (Gateaux de Poisson), 17 „ „ II. „ „ 18 ,, Cream (Creme de Poisson), 19 ,, Curry (Poisson au Cari), 20 „ Cutlets (Cotelettes de Poisson), 21 ,, Kromeskies (Kromeskies de Poisson), 22INDEX. sh Omelet (Omelette au Poisson), 23 Pie, with Macaroni, 24 „ Potatoes—I., 25 „ „ II., 26 „ Rice, 27 Pudding, Steamed, 28 Quenelles (Quenelles de Poisson), 29 Souffle (Souffle de Poisson), 30 Gurnets (Goumal), page iii. „ Baked (Goumaux au Four), 31 „ Fried (Goumaux Frits), 32 Haddock (Eglefin), page iii. ,, Baked au Gratin (Eglefin au Gratin), 33 „ To Boil (Eglefin Bouilli), 34 ,, Stuffed and Baked (Eglefin Farci au Four), 35 „ ,, Fillets of (Filets d’Eglefin Farcis), 36 „ To Fry (Eglefins Frits), 37 ,, Fried in Batter (Friture d’Eglefin), 38 „ Filleted and Fried (Filets d’Eglefin Frits), 39 ,, Rizzared (Eglefin Grille), 40 Halibut, page iii. ,, Baked with Tomatoes, 41 „ „ Vinegar, 42 „ To Boil, 43 „ Mayonnaise of, 44 ,, Steaks, To Fry, 43 ,, a la Creme, 46 Herring (Harengs), page iii. ,, To Broil—I. (Harengs Grilles), 47 »> j> II- ,, 4^ ,, To Fry—I. (Harengs Frits), 49 » t j» II. ,, 5® ,, Pickled (Harengs Marines), 51 „ Stuffed and Baked (Harengs Farcis au Four), 52 John Dory (Doret), page iii. „ (Doret), 53 Kedgeree, 54 HINDEX Ling (Lingue), page iii. Lobsters (Homard), page iii. ,, To Bake (Homard au Gratin), 55 ,, To Boil (Homard Bouilli), 56 ,, Cream of Hot (Creme de Homard Chaud), 57 ,, Cutlets (C6telettes de Homard), 58 ,, Omelet (Omelette au Homard), 59 Mackerel, To Broil (Maquereau Grille), 60 ,, Pickled (Maquereau Marine), 61 ,, Stuffed and Baked (Maquereau Farci au Gratin), 62 Mullet, Grey (Mulet), page iii. ,, Red (Rouget), page iii. ,, Red au Gratin (Rouget au Gratin), 76 ,, Red, Grilled (Rougets Grilles), 77 Mussels (Moules), page iv. >> »» 63 Oysters (Huitres), page iv. ,, au Naturel (Pluitres au Naturel), 64 ,, Cutlets (Cotelettes d’Huitres), 65 ,, Fried (Beignets d’Huitres), 66 ,, Scalloped (Coquilles d’Huitres), 67 ,, Souffles (Petits Souffles d’Huitres), 68 Perch (Perche), page iv. ,, To Stew with Wine (Perche au Vin Blanc), 69 Pike, Stuffed and Baked (Brochet Farci au Four), 70 Plaice (Plie), page iv. ,, To Fry—I. (Plie Frite), 71 j> >> II- >> 72 ,, To Stew (Plie au Jus), 73 ,, Stuffed and Baked (Plie Farcie au Four), 74 „ with Tomatoes (Plie aux Tomates), 75 Red Mullet au Gratin (Rougets au Gratin), 76 „ Grilled (Rougets Grilles), 77 Salmon (Saumon), page iv. ,, To Boil (Saumon Bouilli), 78 ,, Cutlets (Cotelettes de Saumon), 79 „ Grilled in Paper (Saumon Grille en Papillotes), 80 „ Mayonnaise of (Mayonnaise de Saumon), 81INDEX. Scallops, page iv. ,, Scalloped, 82 Shrimps (Crevettes), page iv. ,, Potted (Terrine de Crevettes), 83 Skate (Raie), page iv. ,, To Boil (Raie Bouillie) 84 ,, Crimped (Raie Tailladee), 85 Smelts (Eperlans), page iv. ,, To Fry (Eperlans Frits), 86 ,, au Gratin (Eperlans au Gratin), 87 Sole (Sole), page iv. „ To Fry—I. (Soles Frites), 88 „ „ II. „ 89 jj >) III. 9> 9® „ Fillets of, a la Bechamel (Filets de Sole a la Bechamel), 91 ,, „ au Gratin (Filets de Sole au Gratin), 92 ,, a la Maitre d’Hotel (Filets de Sole a la Maitre d’Hotel), 93 „ Fillets of, au Parmesan (Filets de Sole au Parmesan), 94 ,, ,, ala Rouennaise(Filets de Sole ala Rouennaise), 95 Trout (Truites), page v. ,, To Bake (Truite R6tie), 96 ,, To Broil (Truite Grillee), 97 ,, To Fry (Truite Frite), 98 Turbot (Turbot), page v. „ To Boil (Turbot Bouilli), 99 ,, Baked Fillets of (Filets de Turbot a la Genoise ou k ITtalienne), 100 Water Souchee (Poisson en Souchee), 101 Whitebait (Blanchailles), page v. ,, To Fry (Blanchailles Frites), 102 ,, Devilled (Blanchailles a la Diable), 103 Whiting (Merlan), page v. ,, Baked (Merlan Roti), 104 ,, Fried (Merlan Frit), 105 „ Steamed, 106 Sauces. Anchovy Sauce (Beurre d’Anchois), 107 Brown Sauce (Sauce Espagnole), 108 Caper Sauce (Sauce aux Capres), 109INDEX. Cardinal Sauce (Sauce Cardinale), no Curry Sauce (Sauce au Cari), ill Dutch Sauce (Sauce Hollandaise), 112 Egg Sauce (Sauce aux CEufs), 113 Genoese Sauce (Sauce G6noise), 114 Gooseberry Sauce (Sauce aux Groseilles), 115 French White Sauce (Sauce a la B&hamel), 116 Horse-radish Sauce (Sauce au Raifort), 117 Italian Sauce (Sauce Italienne), 118 Lobster Sauce (Sauce au Homard), 119 Mayonnaise Sauce (Sauce Mayonnaise), 120 Melted Butter (Beurre Fondu), 121 ,, Sauce (Sauce -au Beurre), 122 Mustard Sauce (Sauce Moutarde), 123 Oyster Sauce (Sauce aux Huitres), 124 Parsley Sauce (Sauce a la Maitre d’Hotel), 125 Reform Sauce (Sauce Reforme), 126 Shrimp Sauce (Sauce aux Crevettes), 127 Tartare Sauce (Sauce Tartare), 128 Tomato Sauce (Sauce aux Tomates), 129 White Sauce (Sauce Blanche), 130 Miscellaneous. To Egg and Bread Crumb, 131 To Steam, 132 To Boil Rice for Curry, 133 To Sieve, 134 Maitre d’Hotel Butter, 135 Fish Stock, 136 Fried Parsley, 137 Use of Tammy for Sauces, 138 Frying Batter, 139 To Chop Parsley, 140 To Clarify Butter, 141 How to Choose Fish, page L How to Clean Fish, page v. To Boil, page vi. To Fry, pages vii. and viii. To Steam, page viii. To Broil, page ix. To Fillet, pages ix. LIBRARY andx.