PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. It is triangular, broader below than above, directed obliquely from ■without inwards, and a little from below upwards, and divided into several fasciculi by cellular tissue. Its base is attached to the fore part of the lower extremity of the fibula, and is partly confounded with the ligaments of the next articulation ; its siimmit is inserted into the fore part of the neighbouring portion of the tibia. Its aoi- terior surface is covered by the peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the skin; the posterior covers at its upper part the inferior interosseous ligament, and is in contact below with the car- tilage of the astragalus. 733. Posterior Ligament {Ligamentum tthio-Jihulareposticum). This resembles the preceding, but is a little smaller; its structure is the same. It is attached on the one hand, behind the tarsal ex- tremity of the fibula, and on the other, to the neighbouring part of the tibia. The lateral peronei muscles cover it, and it lies upon the inferior interosseous ligament, and the astragalus. 734. Posterior and Inferior Ligament (Ligamentum tihio-fibu- lare postimm inferius). Continuous with the preceding, this liga- ment is inserted behind the malleolus cxternus, and directs itself transversely to that of the tibia, passing to the posterior part of its articular surface, and forming a very distinct fibrous fasciculus. It forms part of the cavity, which receives the articular pulley of the astragalus in the ankle joint. 735. Inferior Interosseous Ligament {Ligamentum interosseum inferius). It fills up the interval, left by the osseous surfaces of the articulation above their cartilages. It is a dense tissue, inter- mingled with some adipose flakes ; its fibres are very short, and adhere strongly to the bones; it seems to be continuous above with the superior interosseous ligament (730) ; it can only be well seen on separating the two bones by force, beginning from above. ANKLE JOINT, oil AUTICULATION OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA WITH THE TARSUS 736. This articulation is a perfect angular ginglyraus ; the fibu la and tibia form together a cavity which receives the astragalus and whose depth is increased by the two malleoli, as well as the different ligaments of the preceding articulation. The tibia and fibula have each their articular cartilage, which is prolonged over their malleolus, and the surface by which they touch each other The articular pulley of the upper surface of the astragalus, and ii lateral articular surfaces, are also invested by cartilage. A synovia membrane is extended over all the parts of this articulation; t which belong, two lateral ligaments, two anterior, and a posterior 737. Internal Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum deltoides). Thi is a broad quadrilateral band, composed of numerous longitudin fibres, longer before than behind, which descend obliquely back