80 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCO M0TI0N\ where it leaves light flakes of a whitish colour, but never a paren- chyma retaining its form. According to Berzelius, it is composed of phosphate of lime and magnesia, carbonate of lime, membranes, soda and water. Like most calcareous substances, it may be artificially made to assume various colours. The natives of the Pelew Islands stain their teeth black with the juice of certain plants. It is well known that they become livid for some time when mulberries are eaten, and Loeseke* asserts that the use of madder reddens them in a very permanent manner, but this is doubtful. The enamel contains no vessels, and is not renewed when de-. stroyed; the opinion advanced by the celebrated Mascagni, that it is entirely formed of absorbent vessels, cannot be admitted. 271. The summit of each root or of its divisions is perforated by the orifice of a canal, which enlarges at the same time with the root, and penetrates into a considerable cavity formed in the crown, and like the hole at the summit of the root, developed in the inverse ratio of age. The walls of this cavity are smooth, and it is filled with a sou gelatinous-looking substance, which is named the nu- cleus or p%d}) of the tooth, and in which there occur many nervous and vascular ramifications, to which the name of dentar or alveolar is given. 272. The teeth, which present no particular differences in the sexes, but which vary much according to age, as well as in different races and even individuals, present a multitude of anomalies and ■ varieties in their number, form, position, consistence, and structure. Many authors have collected examples of these variations, which it is more curious than useful to know. I shall mention a few of the most remarkable. 1°. Varieties of number. The cases in which more than six- teen teeth occur in each jaw, are extremely rare, it being more fre- quent to find the number incomplete, although this is almost always owing to the last tooth remaining concealed in the alveolus. Borelli-}* saw a woman, however, who lived to the age of sixty without ever having teeth. Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, according to Plutarch's account, had all the crowns of the teeth united. Pliny relates the same of the son of Prusias, king of Bithynia. Soemmering^ has in his museum two teeth united in this manner. The lateral in- cisors have been seen wanting, in which case the middle pair were so enlarged as to occupy their place; it is much rarer to see a supernumerary incisor; yet Plouquet§ mentions his having himself had five in the lower jaw, &c. ** 2d, Varieties of form. The upper incisors have been seen curved upwards in the form of a hook.||, Cheselden speaks of a " Obs. xlvl. and xlvii. f Obs. cent. ii. p. 41. * Dc Fahr. corp. hum. t. i. p. 204. § Dissert, cctaf. hum. cuTUviquc jura iistcns, Ttib. 1778, p. 8. II Soemmering, 1. c. p. 204.