510 OllGANS OF SENSATION'. OF THE SECOND SACRAL NERVE. 1021. Posterior Branch. Thicker than that of the preceding nerve, it communicates with it and the third, descends obliquely outwards, perforates the glutacus maximus muscle, to which it gives filaments, and expands upon its posterior surface, and in the integuments of the hip and margin of the anus. 1822. Anterior Branch. It issues by the second anterior sacral hole, between the two upper Klips of the pyriformis muscle, com- municates with the sacral ganglia, descends outwards, and throws itself into the sciatic plexus, uniting with the anterior branches o the preceding and following nerves. OF THE TIIIUD SACRAL NEKVE. 1823. Posterior Branch. It communicates, at its leaving the third posterior sacral hole, with the corresponding branches of the second and fourth sacral nerves, descends outwards under the ori- gins of the glutfEus maximus, passes through that muscle giving off some filaments to it, becomes subcutaneous, expands and sends its filaments into the integuments of the lower and inner part of the hip and margin of the anus. 1824. Anterior Branch. Smaller than that of the first two pairs, it communicates with the sacral ganglia, throws filaments into the hypogastric plexus, descends outwards, and, uniting with the two neighbouring nerves, enters into the sciatic plexus. OF THE FOURTH SACBAL NEUVE. 1825. The two branches of this nerve are precisely similar to those of the preceding nerves, and do not require to be particularly described. The anterior enters into the formation of the sciatic plexus. OF THE FIFTH AND SIXTH. SACRAL NERVES. 1826. Posterior Branches. They are considerably smaller than those of the preceding nerves. They communicate with each other, and the fifth moreover receives a filament from the fourth. They then lose themselves around the anus. 1827. Anterior Branches. That of the fifth passes between the sacrum and coccyx, and that of the sixth escapes through the lateral and superior notch of the latter bone. They communicate with each other and with the fourth, but contribute very little to