ORGANS OF SENSATION. 426 cle. But, in the natural state, the aperture which affords a ])as- i sage under the anterior commissure cannot be discovered. i 1544. Beneath the corpus callosum and the septum lucidum < there is observed the Fornix, formed by the converging filaments i of the posterior convolutions of the middle lobe. This is a lamina * of soft, white, fibrous substance, having the form of a triangle, curved upon itself, whose summit, which is directed forwards, is bifurcated. It forms part of the two lateral ventricles, and of the third ventricle. Its upper surface is, in a great part of its | extent, contiguous to the corpus callosum ; in the median line, it is continuous with the septum lucidum. The inferior surface is applied upon the tela choroidca and the optic thalami. Its two edges are coasted, in their whole extent, by the choroid plexus. Posteriorly, it presents a few striae and prominent lines, more or less oblique with respect to each other : this is the Lyra (Corpus PsalloidesJ, which is considered by GaU as the general union of the communicating filaments of the fornix. The anterior extre- mity of the fornix, is divided into two cylindrical bundles, (anteri- or pillars J at first contiguous to each other and curving around the striated bodies to proceed directly downwards, then separating a little, sinking into the substance of the convolutions, and ter- minating at the pisiform tubercles of the inferior surface of the brain, after passing behind the anterior commissure. Behind each of these cords, and under the origin of the tasnia semicircularis, is an oval aperture, more or less wide, by which the lateral ventricles communicate with the third ventricle, and by which also the tela choroidea is continued into the choroid plexus. 154-5. The posterior angles or pillars of the fornix, furnish each a prolongation, which is bifurcated. One of the branches, which is very short and thin, loses itself in the white layer of the cornu Ammonis. The other, which is very long, {Corpus fim- hriatum) is a flattened band, which prolongs itself into the bottom of the lateral ventricles, turning over the concave edge of the cor- nu Ammonis (1542), and at length losing itself near the inferior aperture of the ventricles. Between this band and the optic thalamus, is a slit which opens in a fissure of the inferior surface of the cerebrum, through which the pia mater penetrates. 1546. Beneath and behind the fornix, in the folds of the pia mater, and above the tubercula quadrigemina, is the Pineal Glaiid (Conarium), a small grayish body, of the size of a large pea, va- rying in its form, of a soft and pulpy consistence, and everywhere isolated from the cerebral substance, except at its fore part, where it is broader, and receives two cords of medullary substance, the ped- uncles of the pineal gland, which come from the upper and inner part of the optic thalami, where they form a slight prominence, proceed backwards, gradually increasing in bulk, pass over the sides of the posterior aperture of the third ventricle, and unite be- fore attaching themselves to the pineal gland, to which they stand