ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEUIOll EXTIIEMITIES. 217 twn inter-articulare). This is a flat, triangular fasciculus of fibres, extended from the extremities of the inferior notch of the cotyloid cavity to the rough depression on the head of the femur; it is enveloped by a very loose sheath of the synovial membrane. Its inner sxirface^ which is slightly directed upwards, is contigu- ous to the cellular mass which occupies the bottom of the cotyloid cavity. The outer surface, which looks a little downwards, is ap- plied against the head of the femur. Its base is bifurcated, that is to say, it is formed of two flattened bands, of which the upper and smaller comes from the corresponding extremity of the cotyloid notch, internally of the ligament of the same name, while the infe- rior, which is larger, comes from that of the opposite side. These two bands are united by a fibrous membrane, and are confounded together towards the head of the femur. This ligament, which was first described by Vesalius, is some- times wantmg. 709. Cotyloid Ligament, (acetabuli labrum cartilagineum). The circumference of the cotyloid cavity, which is of itself very prominent, is further eked out by means of the fibro-cartilaginous rim which surmounts it, and which renders it perfectly regular, by closing up the three notches observed in it. It resembles the gle- noid ligament of the shoulder joint, but is stronger and larger. It is applied upon the bone by a base about three lines broad, and is terminated, in the other direction, by a free and sharp edge, in- chned a little inwards, and embracing the circumference of the head of the femur. This ligament is broader opposite the notches of the cavity than in their intervals, and is not continuous with the diarthrochal cartilage, there existing a very distinct circular groove between them. Its two surfaces are lined by the synovial mem- brane ; but the outer is contiguous to the capsular ligament, and the inner to the head of the femur. At the notch of the cavity it passes from one of its extremities to the other, and thus trans- forms it into a true hole. It is composed of fibres, which arise externally from the circum- ference of the cotyloid cavity, incline a little towards its interior, and terminate on the inside of this same circumference, at a greater or less distance from it. These fibres are very close and compact, and are joined externally by some of the fibres of the curved ten- don of the rectus femoris. /lO. The cotyloid ligament is not the only fibrous organ which contributes to convert the cotyloid notch into a hole, it beino- as- sisted in this by two bundles of fibres which are attached beneath It, to the two sides of that notch, forming two planes which cross each other. The deeper of these planes {tigamentutn labri cartir- laymei trunsvcrsum internum), comes from the upper side, and IS partly attached to the lower, where it is confounded with the co- tyloid ligament; the otiier {/igamentum labri cnrtilmjinei iram- versum ewfernim) which is superficial, ascends towards the up-