ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 181 with cellular tissue at its upper part and on its sides. It covers an oblong convex surface, incrusted with cartilage, which exists at the posterior part of the odontoid process, and is even prolonged a little upon its sides; whence it proceeds backwards over the an- terior part of the transverse ligament, to which it sHghtly adheres, and which it renders smooth and polished. It is contiguous late- rally with the synovial membrane of the occipital condyles, and even blends a little with it. 591. Transverse or Cruciform Ligainent [Ligamentum atlantis transversum, seu ligamentum cruciforme). This ligament, which con- sists of a thick, strong, and firm bundle of fibres, flattened from before backwards, and a little broader in the middle than at its two extremities, extends from the inner part of one of the lateral masses of the atlas, to the corresponding point of the opposite side, passing behind the odontoid process. There results from this arrangement, that it describes in its course a fourth of a circle, and forms with the anterior arch of the atlas, a sort of ring in which the odontoid process turns, or which turns upon it. Its posterior surface is convex; the anterior surface, which is con- cave, is contiguous to the odontoid ligaments, to the odontoid process, and is a little covered by the posterior synovial capsule of the same process. From the middle part of its inferior edge, there is detached a small fasciculus of vertical fibres {appendix in- ferior), about a line in breadth, which is attached to the posterior part of the body of the axis. From the corresponding point of its upper edge, there also proceeds a very distinct fasciculus of fibres {appendix superior), broader above than below, which ascends to attach itself to the basilar surface, some lines before the occipital foramen. The transverse part of this ligament, which is very strong, dense and thick, is composed of transverse, parallel, close fibres, commonly separated by narrow intervals, filled with cellular tissue, into two or three distinct bundles, placed above each other. 592. Anterior Atlanto-axoidal Ligamerit. The lower edge of the small arch of the atlas and its middle tubercle, give rise to the fibres of this ligament, which are attached inferiorly to the base of the odontoid process, and to the fore part of the body of the axis. The latter fibres are the longest, and sometimes form a distinct rounded fasciculus, while the others represent a kind of membran- ous layer, which occupies the interval of the articular capsules, and even covers them a little. The ligament of which we speak, IS covered anteriorly by the recti capitis antici majores muscles. 593. Posterior Atlanto-axoidal Ligament. This ligament, ■which is of a membranous appearance, very thin and loose, is at- tached, on the one hand, to the inferior edge of the posterior arch ot the atlas, and, on the other, to the upper edge of the lamina of rlT^' Z^^^^^^^^^'^' is covered by much adipose cellular tissue, and by the obliqui capitis inferiores musdes. Anteriorly, it is • connected with fasciculi of vertical fibres, of a yellowish colour,