OF THE TRACHEA AxNI) BRONCHI. 629 iTliese are mucous follicles, the excretory ducts of which traverse tithe whole substance of the canal to open upon its inner surftice : t they are commonly named the Glands of the Trachea; they are ^wanting anteriorly. Its inner surface corresponds anteriorly, and in the intervals of tithe cartilages, to the mucous membrane, from which it is separated hby a multitude of other smaller granulations, varying in colour, vAvhich also appear to be follicles. But posteriorly, it is immediate- l;ly applied upon a layer of transverse fibres, very close and dense, ;iattached to the extremities of the rings, and of a muscular nature. JThese fibres are disposed in small bundles, and form a perfectly tliistinct plane. 2228. Mucous or Inner Membrane. This is a continuation of tUie membrane of the larynx (1487)? and extends to the termina- tition of the bronchi. Thin, reddish, and plicate in the direction oof its length, especially at the back part, where it is applied against lihe fibres of muscular appearance which we have just noticed, it iGorresponds in the rest of its extent, to the inner surface of the ixartilaginous rings, and, between them, to the fibrous membrane. Mt has in general little adhesion to these different parts. Its inner ■ surface is perforated by the excretory orifices of its mucous folli- cles, which constantly pour out a rather thick and not very plentiful ".fluid. Its organization presents nothing remarkable. 2229. The vessels of the trachea come from the superior and in- [ierior thyroid. Its nerves are furnished by the pneumo-gastric merves (I7O8, I709) and cervical gangha (1884, 1893). The bbronchi have arteries which bear their name, and which arise iiTi- nmediately from the aorta; they are commonly two in number, a riright and a left. They have corresponding veins, which empty ;hheir contents, to the right into the vena azygos, and to the left nnto the superior intercostal vein. Their nerves are supplied by hhe two pulmonary plexuses (I7IO, 1899, 1906). 2230. Lymphatic Ganglia of the Bronchi {Bro7ichial Glands). IThey are very numerous, and are situated before the bifurcation 't)f the trachea, around the bronchi, and even in the interior of the dungs, where they are irregularly disseminated. Their form pre- sents numerous variations, being sometimes oval, or rounded, iometimes lobular, Sec. They also vary much as to size: the larger are lodged above the trachea, the smaller in the intervals of '-he bronchi. Their colour is black, or of a dark brown in the adult, reddish in children. Their tissue has in general little con- sistence ; they may be crushed under the fingers, to which they communicate their colour.* * I have iiuver been able to discover tlie excretory ducts wliicli some anutomists :^ive them, and by whidi they are supposed to pour out a peculiarfluid into tlie bron- chi, but bave distinctly seen several times, as Ilaller states, lyniphutie vessels going o tliem, or issuing from them to throw themselves into tlie thoracic duct. Four- •roy thought their black colour owin^c to the accumulation of the carbon, whicli he uppo.sed to be separated from the blood during tlie act of respiration.