PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 44-5. The anterior line approaches very near the preceding at its iipper part, and there forms the anterior or outer edge of the bi- cipital groove, to which the tendon of the pectoralis major is at- tached. In the middle it is interrvipted by the impression of the deltoid muscle, and becomes rounded and broadened below, to give insertion to the brachialis internvis. 446. Upper or Scapular Ewtremity. This is the largest part of the bone, and is formed by three eminences. The upper, which is inclined inwards and backwards, of a nearly hemispherical form, smooth, and covered with cartilage, is named the Head., (Caput Humeri), and is articulated with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. It is supported by a contracted part or Neck, a httle longer and more distinct forwards, downwards, and inwards, than at its upper and oviter part, where it resembles a mere groove. The axis of this neck is placed obliquely to that of the bone, and forms an ob- tuse angle with it. The other two eminences are named the Greater and Smaller Tuberosities. The first, (tuberculum majus s. i externum), which is situated posteriorly, is rounded, and presents three plain surfaces, of which the anterior receives the tendon of • the supra-spinatus muscle, the middle that of the infra-spinatus, 1 and the posterior that of the teres minor. The other, {tuberculum minus s. internum), which is much narrower, but a little more pro- minent, gives attachment to the tendon of the sub-scapularis. These two tuberosities are separated from each other by the com- mencement of the bicipital groove, which is directed downwards , and inwards. 447. Lower or Anti-brachial Ewtremity. This end of the bone is flattened and curved forwards ; its transverse diameter is the greatest. At the outside, it presents an eminence, named the Ex- ternal Condyle, (condylus extensorim), into which is inserted th( external ligament of the elbow joint, together with the extensor carp radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor propriuf minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis Internally, there is observed another eminence or tuberosity, th^ Interjial Condyle, {condylus f exorius), more prominent than th preceding, which is turned a little backwards, and receives a ten don common to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmari longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor sublimis muscles, togethe with the internal lateral ligament of the joint. Between these tw eminences is an articular surface, turned forwards, descending b< 1 low them, and formed from the radial to the ulnar side ; 1st, b 1 the Small Head of the Humerus, {superficies articularis radialis I a rounded eminence, which is received into the cavity of the upp< extremity of the radius; 2dly, by a groove which corresponds the margin of that cavity ; 3dly, by a sharp semicircular cres which is lodged between the ulna and radius ; 4thly, by a puUe {superficies articularis ulnaris), situated beneath the level of t) small head, which articulates M'ith the large sigmoid cavity of t ulna. It is on account of the greater projection of this pulh