ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 201 riorly from it by a space which is filled with cellular tissue. Be- lotv, it corresponds to the supra-spinatus muscle, and above, to the synovial capsule and to the fibro-cartilage, when it exists. 649. Synovial Membrane. It contains very little synovia, and is sometimes double, on account of the presence of the inter-articu- lar fibro-cartilage. Its disposition is very easily conceived in the two cases, and its outer surface is only in contact with the two li- o-aments of the articulation, and with cellular tissue. ° 650. Caraco-clavicular Ligament. It is this ligament which does not belong to the scapulo-clavicular articulation; several ana- tomists have considered it as double, because it is formed of two fibrous bundles, whose direction is different; both serve equally to connect the clavicle with the coracoid process. Considered as a whole, it appears irregular, voluminous, and very strong; its two fasciculi are separated from each other, anteriorly, in a distinct manner, by an angular space which is filled with cellular tissue. The posterior and inner fasciculus {Ligamentum scapulcB com- mune conoides), has the form of a reversed cone. It is shorter than the other, with close and divergent fibres, and is attached by its base to a tuberosity which the lower surface of the clavicle presents externally, and by its summit to the broadest part of the coracoid process. Its anterior surface is covered by the subclavius muscle, and the posterior by the trapezius. It is slightly confounded ex- ternally with the second fasciculus, and inferiorly with some of the' fibres of the coracoid ligament (652). The anterior and external fasciculus {^Ligamentum scapulce commune trapezoides), which is placed at the distance of an inch from the scapulo-clavicvilar articvdation, is longer and broader than the posterior ; it is also thinner, and has a quadrilateral form ; its fibres, which are shorter behind than before, are separated by small cellular spaces. It is attached superiorly to an oblique line, which proceeds from the above tuberosity to the extremity of the clavicle, and inferiorly to the inner and posterior part of the upper surface of the coracoid process. It unites posteriorly with the preceding ligament, forming a very distinct projecting angle. One of its sur- faces is directed upwards an.d forwards, the other downwards and backwards; the first is in connexion with the supra-spinatus muscle, and slightly with the acromio-coracoid ligament (653) ; the other with adipose cellular tissue, which fills the triangular space left be- tween these two fasciculi.* PROPER LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA. 651. These ligaments extend from one point of the scapula to another. One of them closes the notch of the upper edge of this " III OS versiim hoc ligiimcntiim adsci vo. Soemm. Dc Conu Jlmii. Fab. loiti. ii. p. 31. Vide iiolc at pngc i2(j of this work.