107 OF THE PREPARATION OF BONES. All that remains to be done after this is to expose them to the air, in a,shady place, to dry. The maceration may be hastenedby carrying it on in a warm place, or the bones may be cleaned in a very short time by boiling them for six or eight hours in soft water; after this they are to be soak- ed in cold water for some days, and then taken out, brushed in a solution of sub-carbonate of potass or soda, and afterwards washed with clean water: but these methods are by no means so good or safe as the former, and must not be attempted with diseased bones; besides, the bones treated in this way are never white, and in a short time they become greasy, and give out a rancid smell. All other processes employed to clean bones injure their texture. In order to examine the internal structure of bones, different sec- tions should be made of fresh bones, of bones which have been inject- ed, and of bones in the different stages of growth and development. Bones may be freed of their earthy matter by diluted muriatic acid; on the contrary, they may be freed of the animal matter by calcination. 552. To prepare and separate the bones of the head, that of a subject of about fifteen or eighteen is most proper, for at a more advanced age some of the sutures become obliterated, in which case the bones will break rather than separate. To effect this separation, the interior of the skull, after it has been fully macerated, is to be filled with peas and put into water; by the action of the water the peas swell out, and thus force the bones of the cranium from each other; when this is accomplished, the bones of the face may be separated by a little care and ma- nagement. To have a proper idea of the way in which the bones of the cra- nium and face are connected together, it is necessary to make dif- ferent sections: the most useful are, a cranium with the skull-cap removed for showing the inner surface of its base ; a vertical sec- tion of the cranium and face ; preparations also should be made of the cranium without the face, and the face without the cranium, the two latter preparations, it is evident, must be made from young skulls. In studying the bones of the head, other sections will suggest themselves.