195 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. form, thin, flat, narrower in the middle tlian at its extremities. It arises by a broad base from the posterior and inferior ihac spine, . the sacro-spinal ligament, the last posterior tubercles of the sacrum, the lower part of the lateral surface of that bone, and the edge of . the coccyx, and directs itself obUquely outwards, downwards, and a I httle forwards. As it advances, it loses much of its breadth, but i its thickness increases in the same proportion ; it is at length at- ; taclied to the tuberosity of the ischium, becoming broader a second ; time, and intermingling with tendinous fibres of the biceps femo'ris : and semi-tendinosus muscles. Here there is detached a small fibrous prolongation, named by some anatomists the Falciform Li- . gament, which winds around the inner part of the tuberosity, at- : taches itself above it by its convex edge, and with its concave and floating edge covers the obturator internus muscle, for which it : forms a sort of channel, as it ascends along the ramus of the is- L chium (401). The posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament gives attachment in its whole extent to fibres of the glutaeus maximus; the anterior is united internally to the small sacro-sciatic ligament, and is separated from it externally by a triangular interval, which gives passage to the obturator internus, and to the pudic vessels and nerve. Its fibres, which converge from the sacrum toward the OS innominatum, and are more oblique as they are higher, are so Idisposed that at the middle of their length the inner cross the 'Outer; they form several planes, separated from each other by ■cellular tissue, between which pass pretty considerable branches of ithe sciatic artery. 629. Small Sacro-sciatic Ligament, (Ligamentum sacro-ischi- aticum minus, internum seu ligamentum spinoso-sacrum). It is smaller than the preceding, before which it is situated, and pre- sents nearly the same form. Internally it is broad, partly con- founded with the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, but fixed a little 'more anteriorly to the sides of the sacrum, and to a small portion of the edge of the coccyx. From this it proceeds outwards and forwards towards the spinous process of the ischium, to which it is '^attached, contracting and becoming thicker as it approaches its in- sertion. Its posterior surface covers the preceding ligament, and the pudic vessels and nerves ; the anterior is connected with the I ischio-coccygeus muscle. I It is composed of fibres which are more horizontal the lower they are ; and is divided into several distinct fasciculi which con- verge from the sacrum toward the sciatic spine. 630. The two sacro-sciatic ligaments separate the great sciatic notch into two holes ; the upper and larger of which is traversed by the pyriformis muscle, the giutjeal vessels and nerve, and the sci- ^ atic vessels and nerves, while the lower and smaller gives passage to the obturator internus, and the pudic vessels and nerve. J 1 hcse two ligaments, while they serve to connect the sacrum , OS mnominatum, also contribute to the formation of the walls