OF THE TRACHEA AND BIIONCHI. I posteriorly, placed before the vertebral column, extending from the ! lower part of the larynx to opposite the second or third dorsal vertebra, in the posterior mediastinum. Running along the me- dian line of the body, symmetrical and regular in its whole extent, shghtly mobile and extensible, the trachea has a diameter of about eight or ten lines, which remains the same in its whole extent, varying only according to the age and certain individual peculiari- ties. It is in general proportional to the size of the lungs. 2223. The anterior side of the trachea is convex, and covered above by the thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, and sterno- hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles, from which it is separated by a layer of pretty thick loose cellular tissue. Inferiorly, it corres- ponds to the thymus gland, the left sub-clavian vein, the arteria innominata, and the arch of the aorta. Its posterior side, which is flattened, covers the oesophagus, and a little to the right, the bodies of the vertebras, which is owing to the obliquity of the oeso- phagus (2136.) Laterally, it is contiguous to the common carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gastric nerves, and the communicating twigs of the cervical gangUa, which are sepa- rated from it by a mass of adipose cellular tissue. 2224. At its inferior extremity, the trachea bifurcates, and gives rise to two canals which penetrate into the lungs. These are the Bronchi, which are distinguished into right and left, and which separate from each other, directing themselves downwards and outwards, at nearly a right angle. The Right Bronchus is wider, shorter, and more horizontal than the left, and is a little anterior to it. It penetrates into the lung opposite the fourth dor- sal vertebra, is embraced in its course by the curve of the vena azygos, and by the arch which the right branch of the pulmonary artery forms. The Left Bronchus, which is a little smaller, but longer and more obUque, is embraced by the aorta and left branch of the pulmonary artery. The bronchi enter the lungs by their internal surface, and di- vide into two branches, which, after a very short course, subdivide, and thus give out branches becoming gradually smaller, which take all kinds of directions. These ramifications seem to divide the whole tissue of the organ into lobules separated from each other by cellular tissue, and absolutely exist in all points. It is ex- tremely difficult to trace them to their termination. Malpighi thought that they end by rounded and membraneous vesicles, which, according to WiUis, are pedicellate. Senac imagines the lobules of the lungs to be composed of polyhedral vesicles, the sixth of a hne in diameter, into each of which a twig of the bronchi opens. But it appears demonstrated, on the contrary, that the divisions of the bronchi ultimately terminate by a small undilated cul- de-sac, and that it is from the union of several of these minute twigs, kept together by the cellular tissue in which they are im- mersed, that what is called the Pulmonary Lobule results.