OF THE INFEIlIOll THYIIOID AllTERY. (377 OF THE POSTEllIOR CEKEBllAL ARTERY. 24)00. The Posterior Cerebral Artery {Art. cerebri profunda), iis much larger than the superior cerebellar, from which it is separ- ated at its commencement by the nerve of third pair, (1633). It [.proceeds at first forwards and outwards, then presently directs itself Lbackwards, turning over the corresponding crus of the brain, 'whence it gains the lower part of the posterior lobe of that organ. Ilmmediately after its commencement, it furnishes several small ttwigs to the mammiUary tubercles, and to the crura of the brain; it ^sends a pretty large one into the third ventricle for the thalamus of :the optic nerve, the tuber cinereum, and the anterior pillars of the ifornix. Precisely in the place where it is in contact with the nerve oof the third pair, it receives the communicating artery of Willis, which comes from the internal carotid (2381). Afterwards there sstill proceed from it a considerable number of twigs for the cerebral pprotuberance, the crus of the brain, the choroid plexus, the thalamus oof the optic nerve, the cornu Ammonis, the corpus striatum, the ppineal gland and the tubercula quadrigemina. 2401. The branches which this artery sends over the brain dive iinto the anfractuosities of its posterior lobe, and subdivide in the ppia mater like those of the other cerebral arteries, with which their rtamifications anastomose. 2402. The posterior cerebral arteries, the communicating arte- rries of Willis, the anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicat- iiing artery, form a sort of polygon, in the area of which are situated tfche mammiUary eminences, the tuber cinereum, the pituitary body, Hand the infundibulum. 2403. It is also to be observed, that the principal trunks of the arteries of the brain occupy the base of that organ, and are placed wetween it and the bony surfaces, so that the motions of the arte- irial circulation are communicated to the brain, as was first distihct- yy proved by Duverney. This impulse is transmitted to it in a unij (form manner, on account of the extensive anastomoses of these iflifl'erent trunks. The principal branches of these same trunks are dodged in the fissures and anfractuosities. The twigs subdivide to innfinity in the pia mater, and it is in reality only the capillary extremities of the vessels that penetrate into the pulp of the nrgan. OF THE INFEllIOR THYKOID AKTERY. (Art. Thyreoidea Inferior.J I 2404. Proportionally larger in children than in adults, it is of nnuch smaller size than the vertebral artery, and is more super- >.cial. It arises from the upper part of the subclavian, almost