OF TIIU TIEIA. 1,49 tertius. Its Posterior Surface is also broader above than below, and is slightly convex in its whole extent. Its upper part is tra- versed by a prominent line, which directs itself obliquely down- wards and outwards, and into which are inserted the popliteus, so- leus, tibialis posticus, and flexor communis digitorum pedis. The portion of the posterior surface of the tibia which is situated above ' tliis line, is of small extent, of a triangular form, and covered by the popliteus muscle; that which lies beiaeath it, being of greater size, is covered by the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, to which it gives attachment. In the upper part of this surface is seen the orifice of the canal for the vessels of the bone, the direc- tion of which is obliquely downwards and forwards. It is the largest of all the canals of this kind that are met with in the long bones. 507. These surfaces are separated by three edges. The ante- rior is more prominent at its middle part than above, and espe- cially than at the lower part, where it is rounded and disappears altogether: it is called the Crest {crista tibice). It is twisted like the body of the bone, and gives attachment to the aponeurosis of the leg. The inner edge is thick, rounded, more distinct below than above, where it gives attachment to the internal lateral liga- ment of the knee-joint. To this edge are also attached the popli- teus, soleus, and flexor longus digitorum pedis. The meter edge is thin and sharp, and gives insertion to the interosseous ligament: it is bifurcated at the lower part. 508. The Upper or Femoral Extremity, which is larger than the lower, is transversely oval. It presents at its upper part two articular surfaces, which are concave, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulated with the condyles of the femur; they are improperly known under the name of Condyles of the Tibia. The inner, which is deeper than the other, is of an oval form from before backwards. The outer, which incHnes a Httle obhquely downwards and outwards, has a nearly circular form. A pyramidal process, with a broad base, inclined obliquely upwards and in- wards, surmounted by two tubercles, situated at a greater distance from the fore than the back part of the bone, and named the Spine Of the Tibia, separates these two surfaces, and presents anteriorly and posteriorly two uneven depressions, which give attachment to the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and the crucial ligaments of the knee joint. The anterior is larger than the posterior. The upper extremity of the tibia is limited anteriorly by a tri- angular, somewhat convex surface, directed obliquely forwards and ciownwards, presenting a great number of vascular apertures, and at Its lower part a tubercle to which is attached the ligamentum On tl ■ -1 "'■'^''"'''''y j« observed a more or less deep notch, nnl Tcon.siderablc eminences are met with, which arc named th^ Tuberosities of the Tibia ; the inner, which is larger ktPv ' T ^''^'"^^fhf" the outer, gives attachment to the internal latcial ligament of the knee joint, and posteriorly to the tendon of