8 PUELIMINAUY OBSERVATIONS. ferent forms; under the one form it is called the medullary sub- stance, under the other the cineritious; the latter is softer and more vascular than the former. Both when examined by the mi- croscope appear to be composed of semitransparent globules, joined together by a transparent and viscous substance. In the medullary substance the globules are larger and more numerous than in the cineritious, besides, they are in the former arranged in lines, which gives it its fibrous appearance. The brain and spinal marrow, which are masses composed of the medullary and cineritious substances, are the central point of the nervous system, the point to which all sensations are referred and from which the will to move passes. The nerves, which are soft, whitish cords of variable form, ramified through the substance of the organs, are the conductors of sensation and motion. a DIVISIONS OF ANATOMY, 17- The study of anatomy is commonly divided, according to the mutual resemblance of the organs, into several distinct branches, which have corresponding denominations. Thus: Osteology {Oalm, os ; Tioyog, sermo) comprises a description of the bones. Syndesmology (Sui'&o'/aoj, ligamentiim; Xoyog, sermo.) Under this are included not only a description of the ligaments properly so called, but also of all those parts which enter into the structure of joints ; it would be better therefore to call it Arthrology, (ag^^o/, articulus; Xoyog, sermo.) Myology (Mug, musculus) embraces the description of the muscles. Neurology (J>!tv§ov, nervus,) the description of the nervous sys- tem and organs of sense. Angiology {iCyyuov, vas.) comprehends the vessels. Adenology {A'bnv, glandula,) the description of the glands. Splanchnology.) (29rXay;)(;Kos, viscus,) the description of the vis- cera. The arrangement which will be followed in this treatise is, that into the organs of the functions of relation ; the organs of the niUritive functions; and the organs o"f the generative functions.