OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 665 2349- The Alveolar Arteri/. It is of considerable size, and arises opposite the maxillary tuberosity, on which it descends from behind forwards, describing numerous turns. In some cases it comes from the infra-orbitar or anterior deep temporal. After sending some small twigs into the superior and posterior den tar canals (204), for the roots of the large molares and the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus, it advances tortuously along the gums, to which it gives some ramifications. Arrived at the fossa canina, it still sends a dentar twig to the small molares, and termin- ates by subdividing in the cellular tissue of the cheeks, the buccin- ator muscle, and the periosteum of the maxillary bone, anatomos- ing with the infra-orbitar by one of its principal twigs. 2350. The Infra-Orhitar Artery. Of equal size with the an- terior deep temporal, it separates from the internal maxillary to- wards the upper and fore part of the zygomatic fossa, gives at its commencement ramifications to the periosteum and fat of the orbit^ and introduces itself into the infra-orbitar canal (198). It travers- es it in its whole extent, placed beneath the nerve of the same name (1659), and sends through its walls some twigs into the rectus inferior and obliquus inferior muscles of the eye, into the orbicularis palpebrarum, and over the lachrymal sac. Near the orifice of this canal, it sends a small branch into the superior and anterior dentar canal (198), for the roots of the corresponding ca- nine teeth and incisors, and for the membrane of the maxillary sinus. Emerging at length by the infra-orbitar foramen, behind the levator labii superioris, it separates into a great number of branches, which subdivide in the muscles of the upper lip and upon the lower part of the nose, anastomosing with the facial, alveolar, buccal, and ophthalmic arteries. Branches which the Internal Maxillary Artery produces in the Spheno-Maxillary Fossa. 2351. The Vidian or Pterygoid Artery. It is very slender and sometimes comes from the superior palatine. It enters, along with the vidian nerve (1872), into the pterygoid canal, runs through its whole length from before backwards, and issues from it to be distributed to the Eustachian tube and the vault of the pharynx, after sending some small twigs into the spongy tissue of the sphe- noid bone and the membrane of the sphenoidal sinuses. Its rami- fications anastomose particularly with those of the inferior phar- yngeal (2327). 2352. The Pterygo-Palatine or Superior Pharyngeal Artery. Still smaller than the preceding, it directs itself obliquely back- wards and upwards, and enters a little internally and inferiorly of it, into the ptery go-palatine canal, to proceed backwards to ter- minate at the pharynx, like the pterygoid, after giving some small