448 ORGANS OF SENSATION. any. This cellular tissue unites the cords of the nerves and tb< filaments, so that no motion can take place between them. It not observed around the nerves that are lodged in a bony canal. 1605. The arterial trunks which accompany the nerves, se: them branches which penetrate on all sides into their interioAri the optic nerve is the only exception to this rule. These smaKti arteries creep at first in the cellular tissue that exists between tlpre cords, and have there a more or less considerable size. They sei small branches into all the interstices of the filaments, which eMiS pand upon the neurilema and seem to lose themselves upon iSp inner surface. K 1C06. The veins of the nerves follow the same course as thep arteries, but do not issue by the same places which give entrancpr to the latter. |' 1607. Absorbent vessels have not yet been traced in all . til nerves, some authors having only pointed them out in the princr pal nerves; nor has it been demonstrated that nervous filamen go to be distributed upon the neurilema. 1608. The encephaUc nerves are usually divided into severi, classes, according to the place where their trunk is connectedr they are thus distinguished into nerves which arise from the cerd brum, the cerebral protuberance, the medulla oblongata, and tli medulla spinalis. The cerebellum does not furnish any. But re cent discoveries, of which indications, however, were previous^ furnished by various anatomists, afford quite different ideas wit respect to the nerves. Like the different parts of the encephaloij they seem produced, at their origin, by bundles of fibres reinforce by gray matter. It even appears demonstrated that in followin the roots of the different nerves, they are seen ascending from th spinal marrow towards the point where they show themselves e; ternally ; and, in fact, the olfactory nerve is the only one in whic no direct connexion with the spinal marrow can be demonstrate or at least with the protuberance formed especially by the med lary cords which arise from its upper part. In several nerve however, in man, this disposition is not so manifest as not to quire the analogy furnished by the anatomy of animals of the othe classes ; but as we are merely occupied with the description of th organization of the human body, we must stop short where th testimony of the senses can no longer guide us in our researche We shall, therefore, confine ourselves to the circumstances th are manifested in man. OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES IN PARTICULAR. OF THE FIUST PAIK OF NERVES. (Nervus Olfactorius.) 1609. There arc few subjects in anatomy that present so mud .