INJECTING or THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 755 2758. The vena portae, hepatic artery, ducts, and nerves, are, before their entrance into the liver, surrounded and connected together by a fibrous capsule, designated by the name of Cap~ side of Glisson, wliich some have supposed to be of a muscular na- ture. 2759. Injections thrown into the vena portae penetrate into the other vessels of the liver, and vice versa. OF INJECTING THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 2760. As there are no other valves in the arterial system but those at the commencement of the pulmonary artery and aorta, the arteries may be injected either from trunk to branches or from branches to trunk ; the veins, on the contrary, have numerous valves in their interior, and can only be injected from their bran- ches ; the veins of the abdominal viscera however have no valves, and may be injected either way. Injections are made of different materials and of different degrees of fineness. One for ordinary purposes may be made of four parts of tallow, one part of rosin and one part of bees wax, to which when melted together, there is to be added some oil of turpentine, hav- ing a sufficient quantity of colouring matter (vermillion for red, and king's yellow for yellow) suspended in it to colour the injec- tion. But if the injection is for a fine preparation, then the following may be used: 1°. The fine injection. This is composed of brown spirit var- nish and white spirit varnish, of each four parts ; turpentine var- nish one part, and colouring matter one part, or as much as is suf- ficient. A little of this while hot is first thrown into the arteries, into the minute branches of which it is to be forced by 2°. The coarse injection which is composed of bees-wax two parts, rosin one part, turpentine varnish one part, and colouring matter q. s. To the bees-wax and rosin melted together, add the turpentine varnish, and then the colouring matter suspended in some oil of turpentine. " Though instructions may be given to facilitate the acquisition of the art of injecting, yet they will be found insufficient for the dexterous performance of its operations ; a moderate share of ex- perience can alone remove the difficulties which result from the "want of it. " The truth of these sentiments will be better understood by the young practical anatomist, after he has met with a few disappoint- ments to his sanguine expectations, by the unexpected destruction of some preparations, which are the objects of his first experiments : for this he must prepare himself with an inflexible resolution and uniform patience. " In preparing for injecting any anatomical preparation, great care