ORGANS OF SENSATION. 418 commonly forming a kind of superficial envelope to the different parts of the organ, but also distributed through different parts of its interior, and sometimes mixed in a more or less intimate man- ner with the white substance. This pulp, which is the least con- sistent of all the solid parts of the body, and is not possessed of any very evident organization, receives a considerable quantity of arteries. It is reddish in children, ash-gray in old people, pale and colourless in dropsical persons; these appearances no doubt depending upon the greater or less quantity of blood distributed to it. In some places of the brain which we shall presently make known, this substance acquires a black or yellow tint, and this cir- cumstance has induced Soemmering and Gennari to admit in the composition of the brain two particular substances, the one hlacle and the other yellow^ which however have not been adopted by other anatomists. Its colour is destroyed by maceration in water, acids or alcohol. By boiling in water or oil, it assumes a granu- lar appearance. It is of the same nature in the brain and cere- bellum. When examined with the microscope, it appears composed of an immense quantity of irregularly rounded globules, of unequal size, and eight times smaller than the globules of the blood. They are connected with each other by a very delicate transparent tissue, filled with an abundant serous fluid, and appear as if heaped to- gether in a confused manner. It is in this part of the substance of the brain, that the most minute arterial and venous branches are found. 1523. 2d, A White or Medullary substance, firmer SLn^Aerxsetf than the former. Its mass is also much greater than that of the cineritious substance, and especially occupies the interior and the base of the organ. It is filled with a very great number of delicate vascular ramifications, whose section represents so many red dots, and whose calibre is much greater towards the centre, than at the circumference of the brain. It evidently becomes fibrous in many places. The globules of which it is composed appear, under the microscope, disposed in straight lines, and are of a larger diameter than in the cineritious substance. There is much variance in the opinions respecting its intimate structure. Some maintain it to be solid, others tubular; some assert that it is absolutely destitute of vessels, others that it entirely consists of them. Some consider it as medullary ; Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, with M. Bauer and Sir Everard Home, adopt the opinion of those who, Uke Haller, Mala- carne, Monro, Soemmering, Vicq d'Azyr, Meckel and Wenzel, think it fibrous, and we consider it in the same light. Jj 1524. The idea most generally adopted with respect to these! two substances, is that the first, which is of an almost entirely vas-i cular nature, is a secreting organ, and that the other is a mass of excretory vessels, or at least of conducting filaments ; that tin nerves are bundles of these vessels ; that the spinal marrow is it- self one of these bundles, only larger than the rest. Of late yearf