OF THE MALAR AND INFEIUOK MAXILLAIIY BONES. 7^ csscls aiid nerves. These holes arc the orihces of canals, whose course is very vague, and httle known. 242. Its upper aspect is smaller, concave, and smooth, and constitutes part of the orbit; it forms a right angle with the outer aspect, behind and above which it is situated; the posterior orifice of one'of the malar holes is observed upon it. It is circumscribed posteriorly, by an edge which is ragged above, where it is articu- lated to the frontal and sphenoid bones, and below, where it miites with the upper maxillary bone, but smooth in an angle formed at its middle part, which enters into the formation of the spheno- maxillary fissure. This edge is inclined backwards at its upper part, forwards and inwards at the lower, and is vertical in the middle. 243. The posterior aspect, which is also concave, is smooth be- hind, where it forms part of the temporal fossa; but anteriorly it presents a rough triangular surface, by which it is articulated to the malar tuberosity of the upper maxillary bone. In its posterior half, there is observed the orifice of a small malar canal. 244. Of its four edges, two are anterior and two posterior. Of the two anterior, the upper is smooth, concave, rounded, and forms part of the circumference of the orbit; while the lower is uneven, rough, and connected with the maxillary bone. Of the two posterior, the upper is thin over the greater part of its extent, more or less twisted in the form of the letter S, and gives attach- ment to the temporal aponeurosis; the lower, thick, especially at its fore part, uneven, and nearly straight, affords insertion to the masseter muscle. 245. These four edges form an equal number of angles by their junction. The upper angle is very prominent, thick, and denti- culate, and joins the external orbitar process of the frontal bone. The lower angle, which is much shorter, is articulated to the malar tuberosity of the upper maxillary bone. The anterior angle, which is very thin and sloped, forms the same connexion on the edge of the orbit; and the posterior, which is longer and more acute than the others, supports the summit of the zygomatic pro- cess of the temporal bone, with which it forms the zygomatic arch. 246. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The malar bone is in general thick and cellular; its development commences by a single centre of ossification ; and it is articulated to the fron- tal, temporal, sphenoid, and upper maxillary bones. INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 247. The Inferior Maxillnry Bone (Mandibuln, s. Ma.villa Inferior) is the largest and strongest bone of the face, of which it occupies the lower part before, while behind it ascends into the middle and posterior region. It is symmetrical, and of a parabo- lical form; but the extremities of the curve which it describes arc