712 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE IIYPOGASTIIIC Oil INTERNAL ILIAC AIITEIIY. 2565. The Hypogastric Artery {Art. Hypoyastrica s. iliaca interna) which is a little smaller than the external iliac, dives almost vertically into the excavation of the pelvis, before the sacro- iliac symphysis, and, directing itself a httle forwards, forms a slight curve, of which the convexity is posterior. At the end of a very short course, it separates into a great number of branches, which arise sometimes separately, and sometimes by common trunks^ and which may be distinguished into posterior, anterior, internal and inferior^ Posterior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE ILEO-LUMBAll AllTEllY. (Art. Ileo-lumbalis.) 2566. It comes from the hypogastric, opposite the base of the sacrum, or issues a httle farther down from the glutaeal. It varies much in size. It ascends a little outwards and backwards, before the lumbo-sacral nerve (1814), and behind the psoas muscle, which receives some ramifications from it. Towards the anterior edge of the base of the sacrum, it divides into two branches, the one ascend- ing, the other transverse. 2567- Ascending Branch. It ascends vertically between the psoas muscle, os ileum and last vertebra, and terminates by anas- tomosing with a branch of the fourth or fifth lumbar artery. It sends ramifications into the psoas, ihacus and quadratus lumborum muscles, and into the periosteum of the sacrum and the iliac bones. One of its principal twigs enters into the vertebral canal, under the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra, and is distributed to the dura mater and nerves which terminate the spinal marrow anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, the lateral sacral and the last lumbar. 2668. Transverse Branch. It directs itself outwards, between the psoas and ihacus muscles, and almost immediately subdivides in- to two orders of twigs. Some of these twigs, the superficial, spread out upon the anterior surface of the iliacus muscle, beneath the peritoneum, and anastomose anteriorly with the circumflex ihac. The other, or deep twigs, penetrate into the muscle, and are dis- tributed in all directions to its fleshy fibres and to the periosteum of the iliac fossa. One of them, of considerable size, enters the spongy tissue of the iliac bone, by the hole which is observed at the middle of the iliac fossa.