ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 73G OF THE VEINS IN PARTICULAK, Of the Veins which concur in forming the Vena Cava Superior. OF THE VEINS WHICH GIVE IlISE TO THE EXTEUNAL JUGULAR VEIN, 2683. Internal Mawillary Vein. (Vena maxillaris interna). It arises by a multitude of radicles in all the parts to which the artery of the same name is distributed (2336), excepting in the dura mater, for the middle meningeal artery is not accompanied by any vein. It is, therefore, composed of the pterygoid, spheno-pala- tine, alveolar, infra-orbitar, mental, inferior dentar and deep tern- poral veins, whose distribution is precisely the same as that of the arteries of the same name. By means of its spheno-palatine root, it communicates with the sinuses of the base of the cranium. The small twigs which establish this communication pass through the foramina of that region, and are called hke all those of the same kind, Emissary Veins of Santorini. Moreover, upon the sides of the pharynx, there are observed frequent anastomoses between the roots of the internal maxillary vein and the facial and pharyngeal veins. This disposition produces the Pharyngeal Venous Plexus. Thus formed, the trunk of the internal maxillary vein passes be- hind the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and there unites with that of the superficial temporal vein. 2684. Superficial Temporal Vein. This vein, which is very flexuous, takes its rise in all the places where the corresponding ar- tery is distributed, and its first radicles anastomose towards the top of the head with those of the opposite occipital, frontal, and tempo- ral veins. It is composed of the middle temporal vein, the anterior auricular veins, the transverse vein of the face, and of some small twigs which come from the eyelids, eyebrow, prominence of the cheek, external auditory canal, and temporo-maxillary articulation. Thus formed, it descends before the ear, and unites with the pre- ceding. 2685. The trunk which results from this union then dives into the parotid gland, which transmits some small twigs to it. It im- mediately furnishes a thick and short branch which passes deeply inwards, above the digastric muscle, and opens into the internal jugular vein ; the trunk then emerges inferiorly from the gland, and receives the following vein. 2686. Posterior Auricular Vein, {vena auricidaris posterior). It comes from the integuments of the mastoid region of the head, and from the inner surface of the auricle ; one of the roots is the stylo-mastoid vein, which issues from the aqueduct of Fallopius. 5