no OF THE I'ELVIS IN GENERAL. LOWER CIUCUMFEUENCE, OK, LOWKJl STJtAlT OF THE PELVIS. 408. This strait, (e,vitus sen apertttra pelvis inferior), is cir- cumscribed anteriorly by the symphysis of the pubes, on the sides by the rami, which proceed from thence to the sciatic tuberosity, and behind, by the extremity of the sacrum and coccyx. It is di- rected downwards and a little backwards. Its form is irregular, and difficult to be determined, because its edges are notched and inclined in two different directions ; it seems, in fact, to result from the union of three large eminences, separated by an equal number of deep notches. The sciatic tuberosities form the two anterior eminences, which are placed wider asunder in the female than in the male, and which descend lower than the posterior and middle eminence, which is represented by the coccyx. One of the notches is placed before, and is named the Pubic Arch, or Arch of the Pubes: it is formed on each side by the bony plate which occurs beneath the obturator hole, and terminated above by an angle, nearly acute in the male, but very rounded in the female, which is occupied by the genital organs in both sexes; and is surmounted by the symphysis of the pubes. The two other notches are situated behind, between the sciatic tuberosity and the sacrum. They are named the Great Sciatic Notches, and are each divided, in the recent state, into three portions by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and traversed by the pyriformis muscle, the sciatic, glutaeal and pudic vessels and nerves, the tendon of the obturator internus, &c. 409. Here, as in the abdominal strait, there are observed four diameters. The antero-posterior, or coccy-ptibic, which is the largest, is measured from the summit of the coccyx to the symphy- sis of the pubes. The transverse is smaller and extends from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. The oblique diame- ters are limited by the tuberosity of the ischium on the one hand, and on the other by the middle of the opposite posterior sacro- sciatic ligament; on which account these oblique diameters cannot be measured on an artificial skeleton. OF THE DIllECTION OF THE PELVIS. 410. The pelvis is not placed in a horizontal plane, but repre- sents a conoid compressed before and behind, and having its two extremities cut obliquely, so as to be always more or less inclined torwards Thus, in the standing posture, a Une drawn horizon- tally backwards from the upper edge of the pubes, falls nearly upon the middle of the sacrum. In the ordinary state, the inclination ot the abdominal strait comes in consequence to be 35°; but it varies according to the attitude assumed. 411- With respect to the lines, which are drawn transversely