ORGANS OF SENSATION. 5S6 latine, and pterygo-palatine; by the supra-orbitar and etlimoidal branches of the ophthahnic artery, the internal carotid artery, the superior labial artery, and the dorsal arteries of the nose. Its veins are little known. They appear in general to follow the course of the arteries. Some of them unite with those of the nose to ascend by the holes with which the bones of that part are perforated (231) towards the commencement of the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater (1573). The spheno-palatine veins empty them- selves into the internal maxillary veins. Some of those of the sphenoidal sinuses communicate with the coronary sinus of the dura mater (1578). The others open into the angular vein. All these vessels creep almost naked at the surface of the membrane. It is also to be remarked that they scarcely ramify in its fibrous lamina. 2068. The lymphatic vessels of the pituitary membrane are scarcely known. Some principal trunks however have been ob- served in it, which accompany the blood-vessels, and go to the ju- gular ganglia. 2069. Of the Nasal Mucus. The olfactory membrane is con- stantly covered with a thick, viscid, mucilaginous, inodorous hu- mour, of variable colour, more commonly a little yellowish, slight- ly salt to the taste, bland, and but little soluble in water, even with the aid of heat. It forms a thick layer in the places where the membrane is destitute of epithelium, whereas there is much less of it where it is protected by that envelope, as at the entrance of the nostrils. This mucous is produced by the follicles of the pituitary membrane, and varies in quantity in the different circumstances of life. ARTICLE FOURTH. OF THE TONGUE. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2070. The Tongue, a symmetrical organ, chiefly muscular and possessed of great mobility, situated in the interior of the mouth, extending from the hyoid bone and epiglottis to behind the inci- sive teeth, is the organ of taste. This is not its sole use however, for it contributes moreover to the acts of suction, mastication, de- glutition, pronunciation and spitting. 2071. The tongue varies much in size. Its form is that of a pyramid flattened from above downwards, rounded on its angles, and terminated anteriorly by a blunt point. There arc distin- guislicd in it, two surfaces, two edges and two extremities.