435 OF THE DURA MATER. 1508. Tentorium Cerehelli, (Septum Transversum). This is a and of membraneous vault which separates the cerebrum from the cerebellum ; it limits the posterior fossae of the base of the cranium :)()steriorly, and leaves anteriorly a semilunar aperture correspond- ^ to the cerebral protuberance. Like the falx cerebri, it is in a I ate of continual tension, and is covered by the arachnoid mem- )! ;ine, which gives it a smooth and poUshed appearance. In outer rriimference, which is of much greater extent than the inner, orresponds posteriorly, where it is hollowed for the lateral sinus, I) tiie edges of the lateral groove of the occipital bone, and ante- ioily, to the upper edge of the petrous process, on which the su- )orior petrous sinus occurs. Its inner circumference, which is ;iuch smaller, free, and nearly oval, forms in a great measure the ircumference of the aperture of which we have just spoken, which f- 3 broader and more elevated behind than before. The extremities tf the two circumferences of the tentorium cerebelli meet at an c.cute angle, are elongated, cross each other like the legs of the etter X, and pass over each other, on either side, to be attiiched no the two corresponding clinoid processes. The upper branch, ihich is especially continuous with the small circumference, is more marked than the other; it passes over the side of the sella iarcica, augments its depth, and is inserted into the anterior cli- aoid process. The lower branch, which terminates the great cir- lurafereuce, completes the upper edge of the hole through which lae nerve of the fifth pair passes, proceeds obliquely inwards, and 5 attached to the posterior clinoid process. 1569. FaLv Cere1)elli (falx minor). This is a small triangu- nr lamina, pretty broad above, indistinct below, extended from the internal occipital protuberance to the occipital hole, at the fore- wart of the occipital"crest, and placed between the two hemispheres : f the cerebellum. Its base is continuous with the tentorium ce- ■tebelli. Its summit is bifurcated, and the two branches of this bi- ■urcation are more or less prolonged upon the sides of the occipital , lole. I 1570. The dvu-a mater presents no trace of muscular organiza- lon in any point of its extent. It is manifestly fibrous, as we have aid, and its fibres are especially very apparent in the folds, and 1 particular at the upper part of the falx cerebri. Their direc- lon is never constant or regular. They cross each other in va- lous ways, or form oblique planes superimposed upon each other. The strength and denseness of this membrane are very remarkable ; ' tdoes not appear to receive any nerves, excepting, as Chaussier tniarks, some filaments which come from the sympathetic system,; "d accompany its arteries, which are pretty numerous, and have ''Jls formed in its substance: they are the middle meningeal ar- LTics furnished by the internal maxillary arteries, and many other maUer branches supphed by the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, "• lachrymal, the inferior pharyngeal, the vertebral, the occipital, 'lu the temporal arteries. It is moreover traversed in various