OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. some ganglia lodged between the two planes of the lattfer. On the sides of the vertebral column, they unite with other vessels which come from the spinal canal and muscles of the back, spread out in the neighbouring ganglia, and then form some plexuses before the vertebral column. From thence they descend, to open very ob- liquely into the thoracic duct. Those of the right side are a little longer than the left. 2833. The thoracic duct moreover receives a multitude of twigs which unite with the preceding, and come from the pleurae, dia- phragm, posterior mediastinum, &c. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH TERMINATE PARTLY IN THE THOHACIC DUCT, PARTLY IN PARTICULAR TRUNKS OPENINa INTO THE VEINS OF THE RIGHT AND LEFT SIDES. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE LUNGS. 2834. Siiperjkial Lymphatics. Placed beneath the pleura^ they form on the surface of the lung a series of areolas of various forms, more commonly hexagonal, and unite into a certain number rof trunks which enter the ganglia with which the bronchus is sur- . rounded at its entrance into the organ. These vessels are remark- : able for the extreme thinness of their walls. 2835. Deep Lymphatics of the Lungs. Disseminated through the whole tissue of the lungs, they follow the divisions of the veins, communicating by a great number of twigs with the superficial lym- phatics, with which they at length entirely unite in the bronchial ganglia, whence both emerge to ascend upon the bronchi as far as the trachea. There they meet with new ganglia, divide in them, and more particularly in one of them which occupies the angle formed by the bifurcation of the trachea. From this large ganglion there issue several trunks, some of which, after ascending upon the trachea and traversing some small ganglia, unite and open into the right great lymphatic vein, while the others, which are much more numerous, traverse ganglia situ- ated in like manner upon the trachea, under the thyroid gland, and collect into two trunks which bend obliquely to the left, behind the internal jugular vein, to discharge themselves into the thoracic duct, or separately into the corresponding internal jugular or sub- clavian vein. SUBSTERNAL, DIAPHRAGMATIC, CARDIAC, THYMIC, AND (ESOPHAGEAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 2836. Substernal Lymphatics. They accompany the internal mammary vessels, embracing them on all sides. They arise from the upper half of the anterior wall of the abdomen, and their roots anas-