ORGANS OK CIIICULATION. G02 2345. The Masseteric Artery. Smaller than the preceding, it sometimes arises along with it by a common trunk. Directed out- wards, between the posterior edge of the temporal muscle and the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, it passes over the notch which separates the latter part from the coronoid process (252), sends some small twigs into the upper portion of the masseter muscle, then descends obliquely forwards, between it and the ramus pf the maxillary bone, enters its substance, subdivides and anasto- moses there with the transverse artery of the face. 2346. The Pterygoid Arteries. They vary much in number, .size, and origin. They almost all come from the maxillary artery itself, but some arise separately from the middle meningeal and posterior deep temporal arteries. They are distributed to the two pterygoidei muscles, and especially to the outer. Their course is very irregular; some of their smallest ramilications accompany the deep temporal nerves. Branches which arise from the Internal Maxillary Artery in the Zygomatic Fossa. 2347. The Buccal Artery. It is sometimes wanting. Pretty frequently it does not come from the internal maxillary artery it- self, but arises from the anterior deep temporal, or from the alve- olar, or lastly from the infra-orbitar. Of very inconsiderable size and very flexuous in its course, it descends obliquely forwards, be- side the buccal nerve (1C64), between the pterygoideus intemus muscle, and the ramus of the jaw, advances towards the cheek, becomes transverse, and separates, at a greater or less distance from the commissure of the lips, into a great number of twigs which are spread out in the buccinator, zygomaticus major, zygomaticus minor, and platysma myoides muscles, the integuments, the mu- cous membrane of the cheeks and their mucous follicles. It anas- tomoses with the facial (2312), infra-orbitar and transverse artery of the face (2332). 2348. The Anterior Deep Temporal Artery. Its volume is pretty considerable. It ascends vertically in the anterior part of the temporal fossa, between the internal and anterior region of the temporalis muscle, the malar and sphenoid bones. One of its twigs enters into the orbit by one of the holes with which the malar'^bone is perforated, and anastomoses with one of those of the lachrymal artery. Several others of smaller size also pass through the same bone, but lose themselves in the adipose tissue which envelopes the ball of the eye, or upon the lachrymal gland. Last- ly, the ^irtery itself terminates by subdividing in the substance of the temporal muscle, where it communicates with the ramifications of the posterior deep temporal artery (2344), and of the middle and superficial temporal arteries.