ORGANS OF SENSATION. renal plexus. Formed by a small number of twigs, they follow the course of the spermatic arteries to the testicle in the male, and to the ovarium and Fallopian tube in the female; but it is impos- sible to say with certainty whether they penetrate the tissue of these organs. Two or three ganglia are observed in their course, and some filaments separate from them for the ureter. OF THE LUMBAR GANGLIA. 1923. The Lumbar Ganglia, of which there arc commonly five on each side, although sometimes only two or three, are of an ob- long form and variable size. They occupy the space comprised between the twelftli rib and the articulation of the last vertebra with the sacrum ; they are situated on the lateral and anterior parts of the body of the vertebrae, near the psoas magnus, behind the vena cava to the right, and the aorta to the left, and are more distinct from each other than the thoracic ganglia, and frequently larger on one side than on the other. Their twigs, which are very white, are naturally distinguished into twigs communicating between the different ganglia, and into external and internal filaments. COMMUNICATING TWIGS. 1924. They go from one ganglion to the other. Tlieir form is often fasciculate, or they are united three or four together. Some- times one or two are wanting, so that the communication is inter- rupted ; or the two neighbouring ganglia are confounded and di- rectly continued without their assistance. They are always very slender and of variable length, the ganglia themselves not occupy-, ing a very determinate place. The first connects the last thoracic ganglion with the first lumbar. EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1925. Each ganglion commonly gives off two or three, either separately or by a common trunk. Pretty long and of great thick- ness, they cross the direction of the lumbar arteries before which they pass, or turn rovmd them. Those belonging to the upper ganglia have a direction obliquely upwards; those of the middle ganglia, a transverse direction ; and those from the lower gangha pass obliquely downwards. They soon after pass between the sUps by which the psoas muscle commences (1290) to anastomose, op- posite the intervertebral holes with the anterior branches of the lum- bar nerves.