OF THE RECTUM. 619 ' Transverse Mesocolon, which proceeds from tlie concave edge of : the arch of the colon which it supports, and forms a horizontal :iand moveable partition, which separates the epigastric region from tthe umbilical, and the stomach, liver and spleen, from the small iintestine. It is broader at the middle than at its two extremities, ■and has a nearly semicircular form. It is composed of two la- iminae, an inferior and a superior: the former is continuous with tthe mesentery (2180) ; the other is prolonged into the posterior (cavity of the peritoneum, and covers a part of the dviodenum. In tthe interval of these two laminae are found the vessels and nerves (destined for the arch of the colon, together with a great number of lymphatic ganglia. Between them and the concave edge of the iintestine, there is observed an empty triangular space, similar to (those which we have already described in the stomach and small iintestine. These two laminae, after uniting upon the colon, give J rise to the posterior lamina of the great omentum. The Iliac Mesocolon varies much with respect to its extent, and i is similar to the other folds of the same kind. It is broader at the I middle than at its extremities. It is continuous above with the ( descending mesocolon, or terminates in a point behind the colon, ; and inferiorly is united to the meso-rectum. It also contains vessels, nerves, and some lymphatic ganglia. 2200. The Muscular and Mucous Membranes are absolutely the same in the colon as in the coecum (2188). 2201. The arteries of the coecum, of the ascending colon, and of the right half of the arch of the colon are furnished by the supe- rior mesenteric artery. Those of the other parts of the colon come from the inferior mesenteric. The veins of these two intestines form the two meseraic veins and open into the vena portse. The lacteals are less numerous on it than upon the small intestine. Its nerves are furnished by the two mesenteric plexuses. 2202. The total length of the large intestine is about seven feet in a man of ordinary size. It forms about the fifth of that of the small intestine. The large intestine differs essentially from the small, in having a greater diameter, in having its longitudinal muscular fibres united into three bands, in the presence of a great number of adipose appendages, in its situation at the circumference and on the sides of the small intestine, in its mode of connexion with the adjacent parts, and in the origin, number, and disposition of its vessels. OF THE RECTUM, OR ORGAN OF DEFECATION. CONFOllMATION AND GENEUAL DISPOSITION. 2203. The Rectum occupies the posterior part of the pelvis, and termmatcs the digestive canal. It succeeds the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and extends from the lef t side of the aacro-vcrtcbral ar-