•^86 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1730. Anterior Branch. It separates from the preceding near- ly at a riglit angle, and turns over the lateral articulation of th^ atlas and axis, between the transverse processes of these vertebraj; [ there it is covered by the levator anguli scapula?, splenius and i first intertransvcrsalis colli, and immediately after divides into se- , veral twigs. One of these ascends upon the atlas to form a ner- vous arch with a filament of the first cervical nerve (I727) ; ano- ther divides into several filaments which go to the superior cervical ganghon; a third loses itself in the rectus capitis anticus major ; a i fourth enters into the formation of the cervical plexus, uniting by 1 two or three anastomoses with the anterior branch of the third cer- vical nerve ; a fifth, which is very small and very high, anasto- moses with the pneumo-gastric nerve. OF THE THIRD PAIR OF CERVICAL NERVES. (Nervus Cervicalis Tertius.) 1731. Posterior Branch. Half the size of the anterior, this branch turns over the lateral articulation of the axis and third cer- vical vertebra, and in particular over the synovial capsule. It at first descends a little, then ascends before the complexus, crossing the inferior twigs of the posterior branch of the preceding nerve (I729), perforates that muscle and the trapezius, and becomes sub- cutaneous towards the upper part of the neck. Its first filament ascends to unite with a filament of the preceding nerve. It fur- nishes another more considerable twig, which passes between the articular and transverse processes of the third vertebra, gives three or four filaments to the posterior recti and oblique muscles of the head, throws one into each superior interspinalis muscle, glides un- der the edge of the complexus, and gives olF several filaments to the trachelo-mastoideus, splenius, transversalis colli and semi-spi- nalis colli muscles, and then terminates in the integuments of the back of the neck and occipital region, as well as in the trapezius muscle. 1732. Anterior Branch. It proceeds forwards and outwards, covered by the splenius and levator anguli scapulae, communicates upwards with the anterior branch of the preceding nerve (1730), downwards with that of the fourth cervical nerve, bifurcates, and thus concurs to form the cervical plexus. By its middle part, it receives a filament of the superior cervical ganghon, and another from its branch which descends towards the middle or inferior gan- glion. It also gives some filaments to the rectus capitis anticus major and levator anguli scapula?.