160 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. disposition ; the former gives attachment to the fourth dorsal interos- seous muscle, the latter to the second plantar interosseous muscle, as also does the inferior edge, which is thin, concave, and directed a little outwards. The Posterior or Tarsal Extremity of the fourth metatarsal bone is of a cubical form, and presents posteriorly a square surface, somewhat concave, which is connected with the os cuboidcs ; internally, two other surfaces, of which the anterior is convex, and articulates with the third metatarsal bone, and the posterior, which is very narrow, unites with the external cuneiform bone; externally, a somewhat concave surface, which articulates with the lifth metatarsal bone; superiorly and inferiorly, two rough surfaces, which give attachment to ligaments. The Ante- rior or Phalangeal Extremity differs in nothing from that of the other metatarsal bones. It is articulated with the first phalanx of' the fourth toe. OF THE FIFTH METATARSAL BONK. 531. This is about the same length as the fourth metatarsal bone. Its Body is flattened from above downwards, curved so as to have the convexity inwards, and much larger posteriorly than anteriorly. Its upper surface is convex, and inclined outwards;' the lower is inclined inwards, gives attachment to the third plantar interosseous muscle, and is partly covered by the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The inner surface, which is narrow and convex, receives at its upper part, the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle, and, at the lower, the third plantar. The Posterior or Tarsal Ewtremity is very large, and of a pyramidal form. It presents, posteriorly, a triangular convex surface, directed inwards, which articulates with the os cviboides ; internally, a concave sur- face, united to the fourth metatarsal bone ; externally, a very prominent tubercle, inclined downwards, outwards and backwards, to which are attached the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and a portion of the abductor minimi digiti; superiorly and inferiorly. insertions of ligaments. The Anterior or Phalangeal Extrcmif ii. is much smaller than that of the other metatarsal bones. Its convexity is more prolonged downwards and outwards. It articu- lates with the first phalanx of the fifth toe, and gives insertion to part of the transversalis pedis. 532. Structure and Develop7ne7it. The metatarsal bones arc precisely the same, as to structure and development, as the meta- carpal (4-75). Like them, they have a medullary canal, cellulai extremities, and a body chiefly composed of compact tissue. Th( first has an epiphysis commencing at its posterior extremity, anc the other four have one at their anterior extremity. 533. Arlicidaf/mis. The first metatarsal bone articulates witl the internal cuneiform bone, and the first phalanx of the great toe the second is united to the three cuneiform bones, the third met;- 1.