OF THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVES. OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES. OF THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVES.* 1696. The Glosso-phanjngeal Nerves (nervi glosso-pharyngei), come from the lateral part of the medulla oblongata, between the facial and pneumogastric nerves, but nearer the latter, in the groove which separates the olivary from the restiform bodies. This origin is composed of two, three, four, or five filaments, more or less separ- ated, and sometimes united into a single root, which is separated from the pneumo-gastric nerve by vessels, by a lamellar process of the circumference of the cerebellum, or by a small portion of the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle (1553). These filaments be- ing united, constitute a bundle placed above and before the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, and proceed directly outwards towards the anterior part of the foramen lacerum posterius. There, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve enters an isolated canal, which is furnish- ed by the dura mater, passes through the foramen, and on emerg- ing, is separated from the pneumo-gastric nerve by the trunk of the internal jugular vein. It then directs itself downwards and forwards, passes over the internal carotid artery, and under the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, then between it and the stylo-glossus, and descends obliquely forwards, following its direction as far as the pos- terior and inferior part of the tongue into which it penetrates. 1697- Immediately after emerging from the cranium, the glosso- pharyngeal nerve sends one of its ramifications into the auditory canal. It gives oflP another upon the promontory of the tympanum, to anastomose, after penetrating that cavity, by a hole near the stylo-mastoid foramen, with one of the branches of the superfi- cial petrous filaments of the vidian nerve. It then receives a fila- ment which comes from the stylo-hyoid twig of the facial nerve (1679), and another from the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve (I703). It afterwards furnishes two long and slender filaments, which descend upon the internal carotid artery, giving off in their course several filaments which anastomose with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, or throw themselves into the plexus of the same name. These two filaments continue to descend internally of the common carotid artery to the lower part of the neck, where they unite with twigs from the cervical ganglia, and particularly with some of the cardiac nerves. After them, the glos- so-pharyngeal nerve sends two others into the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It also furnishes two considerable twigs, isolated or unit- eel at their origin, which come off from it opposite the summit of the styloid process or a little lower. These descend inwards and •ri/iT^'^^^' ^" P^ss"^g' ramifications to the upper and middle constrictors of the pharynx, and to its mucous membrane. Unc ot these ramifications goes to the tonsil. Two or three others * 1'iS.irrx, iuiguii ; f «j">?, I'luinjux.