ORGANS OF SENSATION. 520 exists, one or two of them unite with it, and the others go directly to the nerve (1878). Occasionally, some of these filaments come from the union that of the superior cervical ganglion with the inferior twig of th vidian nerve. Several filaments (supra-sr>henoidal) go to the infundibulum (1506). A very slender filament dives into a small aperture in the walls of the aqueduct of Fallopius (180), runs along a groove or small canal formed on the promontory of the tympanum, and anasto moses there with a filament of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which has entered towards the stylo-mastoid hole, and with another fila- ment which separates in this place from the upper twig of the vi dian nerve (1872) Another filament traverses the cavernous sinus, and goes to join the ophthalmic or the nasal nerve. Sometimes it bifurcates and goes to both at once. It is by means of it that the superior ccrvi cal and ophthalmic ganglia communicate. The other filaments of this plexus, which are very numerous, re main applied on the walls of the artery, to which they form a kind of nervous sheath. There is detached from them a pretty larg bundle which accompanies the ophthalmic artery, and subdivides into as many small fluxuous sheaths as that artery has branches.— One of them follows the central artery of the optic nerve, and pro- bably forms a communication between the retina and the superior cervical ganglion.* Other fasciculi accompany the other branches of the carotid artery which go to the pia mater, such as the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, &c. These latter are always pretty distinct. OF THE INFElllOR FILAMENT. 1876. It comes from the inferior extremity of the ganglion, which seems to be prolonged downwards for the purpose of forming it, or which sometimes terminates in an abrupt manner and gives it of! directly. It varies in size, being sometimes very slender and at other times double, but never wanting. Its solidity gives it a re semblance to the encephalic nerves, from which it differs only in its gray colour. It descends vertically before the rectus capitis anti cus major and longus colli muscles, covered by the carotid artery the internal jugular vein, and the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves, to which parts it is connected by a rather loose filament ous cellular tissue. Opposite the fifth or sixth vertebra, it termi- nates in the middle cervical ganglion ; but when this latter is want ing, it goes as far as the inferior. 1877- In its course, this nervous cord receives some long an^ * Ribcs, Mem. dc lu Societe Medic. d'Emul. T. vii. p. 9T.