JOF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PITUITARY MEiMBIlANE. 583 I'orly in a point, but which does not sensibly increase the vertical I" extent of this bony plate. On arriving in the superior meatus, it dives into the posterior eethraoid cells, which it lines like the anterior; passes over the sspheno-palatine foramen, which transmits to it a great number of inerves and vessels, and which allows a lamina of the periosteum of tthe pterygo-maxillary fissure to join it. It then directs itself to the vault of the nasal fossae, where it nines the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, of which it closes all tthe holes, so that the olfactory nerves terminate there at its external ii surface. Posteriorly, it covers the body of the sphenoid bone and ssinks into the sphenoidal sinuses, forming at their orifice a fold which (contracts them more or less, according to the subject- Anteriorly, lit is reflected over the posterior surface of the nasal bonesj passes I over the two or three foramina observed upon them, receiving the 1 vessels to which they give passage. It descends from thence to tthe aperture of the nostrils, where it is furnished with a consider- : able number of hairs, and where it is distinguished by very re- I markable peculiarities of organization. Finally, leaving the vault of the nasal fossse, the pituitary mem- l brane descends over the septum which separates them, without r forming any replication, and thus arrives at the place from which ^ we supposed it to set out. OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PITDITAKY MEMBRANE. ' 2059- Similar to the other mucous membranes with respect to 1 the fluid which it furnishes, the pituitary membrane is continuous ' -with several of them, that is to say, with those of the organs of di- I gestion and respiration, and with the tunica conjunctiva of the eye. i It also lines, like them, the interior of a cavity which communicates ' with the skin by apertures, which that envelope presents at the I surface of the body. But it differs from the other organs of the I same kind in being thicker and softer, and truly deserves the epi- 1 thet villous. 2060. The colour of the pituitary membrane varies in the dif- I ferent points of its extent, where it appears sometimes white and I sometimes red. The latter tint predominates so long as it is not j: introduced into the sinuses, and is much more intense than in the ji • other mucous membranes, even than in those of the stomach and I! I small intestines. This red colour af the pituitary membrane de- pends upon the blood, which circulates in it. 2061. With respect to its more general disposition, this mem-. brane cannot be considered as a mere mucous membrane, being evidently formed of two distinct laminas, one of which is mucous, while the other, which is fibrous, is nothing else than the perios- teum or perichondrium of the nasal cavities. 1'he union of these two laminae is of the most intimate nature, but their existence may