DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. S93 1058. Its anterior surface corresponds to tlie carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the superior cervi- cal ganglion, and the pharynx. The posterior surface covers the longus coUi and rectus capitis anticus minor, the articulations of the occipital bone with the atlas, and of the atlas with the axis, and the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. Its inner ege is united to the longus colli by cellular tissue. The outer edge is free above. 1059. This muscle bends the head upon the neck, directly, if it .cts in conjunction with that of the opposite side, and laterally, if it acts by itself It seldom has any influence upon the motions of the vertebral column, which however is the case in jugglers who balance the body upon the head. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR. 1060. It is situated behind the preceding muscle, and has nearly the same form, but is much shorter and narrower. It arises below, from the fore part of the lateral mass and of the trans- verse process of the atlas, by aponeurotic fibres prolonged to a considerable distance in the fleshy fibres. From thence it as- cends, becoming broader, to the anterior margin of the occipital hole, and the cartilaginous substance which unites the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone with the basilar process. It terminates behind the rectus anticus major, and a little more externally, by thin aponeuroses. It is concealed by that muscle, and covers the atlanto-occipital articulation. Its action is to bend the head slight- ly upon the neck. OF THE RECTUS CAFITIS LATERALIS. 1061. This muscle appears to be analogous to the intertransver- sales colli, (862) and might even be considered as the first of them. It is thin and flat, and of an elongated square form. It is attach- ed inferiorly, by a small tendon, to the upper and anterior part of the transverse process of the atlas, whence it ascends vertically to the occipital bone, to terminate at an impression which it pre- sents behind the jugular fossa. Its anterior surface is covered hy the internal jugular vein, the posterior corresponds to the ver- tebral artery. 1062. It inclines the head laterally and forwards. 1063. The pharynx and the vessels and nerves of the neck be- ing removed, the cellular tissue, covering the anterior surface of these muscles, is to be dissected away, when the rectus capitis an- ticus major will be seen in its whole extent; this is to be removed o expose those parts of the longus colli and rectus capitis minor which are covered by it.