OIIGANS OF GENERATION. 820 consequently of much less extent than in the male, and it scarcely presents any trace of raphe (2964). On its sides are observed two elongated eminences, commencing at the Mons Veneris, and unit- ing posteriorly to form the Fourchette. These eminences are the Labia Pudendi. Between the labia, are observed, superiorly the Clitoris, a small hard and more or less prominent and elongated body; the A^ym- phce, a kind of folds which arise from the clitoris and lose them- selves upon the inner surface of the labia; the Vestibule, a triangu- lar space comprised between the upper parts of the two nympha?; the Meatus urinariusox orifice of the urethra, the Entrance of the Vagina, with the Hymen or the Carunculce myrtiformes; and lastly between the entrance of the vagina and the fourchette, a small transverse depression termed the Fossa navicularis. OF THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE VULVA IN PARTICULAR. 3021. Mons Veneris. This rounded eminence, which is more or less prominent in different individuals, and situated before the pubes, is formed by a mass of fat upon which the skin is immedi- ately applied. At the period of puberty it is covered -with hairs, ■which are not quite so long as those observed on the correspond- ing part in the male, and also occupy a more limited space, al- though in some cases they extend to near the umbilicus. Their colour is very variable; they are almost all curled, especially in women who have abused coition. 3022. Labia Pudendi (Labia majord). These are two mem- braneous folds, thicker above than below, whose length is much about the same in all women, but whose volume and projection are in the direct ratio of the degree of fatness of the individual. Their outer surface is contiguous to the upper and inner part of the thighs, and is furnished with a few hairs ; it is formed by a prolon- gation of the skin, beneath which there is found a considerable number of sebaceous follicles. The inner surface is red and lined by the mucous membrane of the other parts of the vulva; it is smooth and polished. Their edge is a little convex, thin or round- ed, and is invested by the skin. The interval between the skin and mucous membrane of the labia pudendi is filled by an adipose tissue similar to that of the Mons Veneris, and traversed by some whitish and fibrous slips. There also occur in it some isolated fibres of the constrictor vagina? muscle, together with vessels and nerves. 3023. Clitoris* This is a small elongated tubercle, more or less prominent, generally concealed by the labia, and occupying the upper and middle part of the vulva. In some women this or- gan assumes an extraordinary development, and acquires a length • Kxaro^U or tlio Greeks.