OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. G83 tal arteries, sending numerous ramifications into the muscles and integuments of the back part of the neck. OF THE AXILLARY* ARTERY. (Arteria a.viUaris.) 2427. It forms the direct continuation of the subclavian. Si- tuated at the superior lateral part of the thorax and in the axilla, it commences in the interval between the two scaleni muscles, and directs itself obliquely downwards and outwards, as far as the level of the inferior edge of the latissimus dorsi muscle, where the bra- chial artery commences. In this course, it describes a curve of which the convexity is directed outwards and upwards, and the concavity inwards and downwards. 2428. The anterior side of the axillary artery is at first cover- ed by the platysma myoides, in a small triangular space which is formed by the scalenus anticus muscle, the nerves of the brachial plexus and the clavicle. It is then in relation with the clavicle itself, whose direction it crosses, and with the subclavius muscle. Still lower, the pectorahs major muscle, then the pectoralis minor, and lastly, the tendon of the pectoralis major and the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles are applied upon it. From the cla- vicle to the lower joart of the axilla, the axillary vein lies upon the artery of the same name. 2429. Its posterior side rests internally upon the brachial plexus. At the middle it corresponds to the cellular interval which sepa- rates the serratus magnus and subscapularis muscles. Externally it lies upon the teres major and latissimus dorsi. 2430. Its tinder or inner side is at first lodged in a more or less deep groove which the upper surface of the first rib presents for it; it then corresponds to the first intercostal muscle, the se- cond rib, and the upper digitation of the serratus magnus, from which it is afterwards more or less separated by the brachial plexus, or by cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia. 2431. Its upper or outer side is at first covered by the skin, the platysma myoides and a layer of adipose tissue; afterwards by the clavicle and subclavius muscle, and lastly, by the capsule of the shoulder-joint, the subscapularis muscle, and the tendon of the teres major and latissimus dorsi, wliich separates it from the upper part of the humerus. 2432. The axillary vein is always placed before the artery, as we have already said. The brachial plexus is situated behind the latter until oear the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, where the principal branches of this plexus embrace the artery and form for it a kind of sheath (1749). Axilla, the arm-pit.