OF THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. ;han the preceding, it arises from the bottom of the cavity of the oyramid, which contains the whole of its fleshy portion in its inte- •ior. It presently changes into a very short tendon which issues )y the summit of that eminence, directs itself forwards, and after a lourse of one line, attaches itself to the posterior part of the neck ■if the stapes. It appears to impress a see-saw motion on this bone, in consequence of which the posterior extremity of the base is sunk in the vestibule, while the anterior is raised in the cavity of the , ympanum. OF THE FIBRO-MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM. 2026. This is a continuation of the mucous membrane of the hharynx which enters by the Eustachian tube, which it lines in its lihole extent, (2013). On arriving in the tympanum, it lines all lis walls, extending over their eminences and diving into their de- nressions. It contributes to close the fenestra ovalis and fenestra ootunda, is applied against the membrana tympani, from which it ;3 separated by the handle of the malleus ; embraces the pyramid, rnd loses itself around the tendon of the stapedius, giving also in Iihis place a very delicate envelope to the chorda tympani (1872) ; nnters the mastoid cells, and separates them from the diploe of the eemporal bone, lining them closely; appears to be reflected over hhe processus cochleariformis to embrace the tendon of the tensor \7mpani muscle; closes the glenoid fissure, and surrounds the >nrocess of Raw ; and lastly, is deflected over the bones of the ear, iVhich it fixes to each other. , 2027. This membrane, which is extremely thin, is somewhat Kbrous externally, being incorporated with the periosteum ; but nnternally, it is assuredly mucous. In the adult, and in old age, ^ t is white, dull, firm, with little appearance of vascularity, and ' )ears a great resemblance to the fibro-mucous membrane which nvests the sinuses of the nasal fossae. In children, it has a •eddish tint, and is traversed by a great number of blood-vessels. • [t constantly exhales a mucous fluid, which flows into the pharynx )y the Eustachian tube ; but neither crypts nor villosities are ob- ■erved in it. 2028. The arteries of the middle ear are furnished by the stylo- nastoid, middle meningeal and internal carotid arteries. Its veins ire very difficult to be traced. The nerves are from the facial lerve and the spheno-palatine ganglion. OF THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. 2029. This portion of the organ of hearing, which is situated twcen the tympanum and the meatus auditorius internus (177), composed of several cavities which communicate together in the