ORGANS Oli- SENSATION. The acoustic nerve proceeds parallel to the facial, so long as it is contained within the cranium. It enters, along with it, the in- ternal auditory canal (177)» where its plexiform structure becomes more and more apparent, and at the bottom of which it divides into two branches. J 691. Branch of the Cochlea. This branch is formed by the white and unfilamentous cord which is distinguished at an early period behind the rest of the nerve. It directs itself a little for- wards and upwards towards the bottom of the internal auditory canal, and on arriving at the base of the cochlea, divides into a great number of very slender filaments, all of which ejiter into an fjqual number of small apertures which this base presents, and thus penetrate into the cochlea, parallel to its axis ; they then spread out their ramifications upon the lamina spiralis, which divides it into two scalae. They are so much the shorter and more delicate the nearer they are observed to the summit, and they all form, on the membraneous part of that lamina, a vei'y dense ^nd thick netr work. For this distribution of filaments, the nerve is twisted upon itself round the axis of the cochlea, and the twig which terminates it passes through the central canal, and is distributed to the infun- dibulum and the last half turn of the spiral lamina. It is larger than the others. 1692. Branch of the Vestibule and Semi-circular Canals. Its bundle, vmited at first to the preceding, separates from it in the in- ternal auditory canal, proceed^s backwards and outwards, and forms a grayish, gangUform bulging, from which three twigs of different sizes emanate. 1693. Great Twig. Larger than the others, behind which it is situated, it enters into the vestibule by several p<5i'osities, and there separates into two portions, after leaving its envelopes and becomr- ing whiter. One of these portions spreads out in the vestibule it- self, and forms a sort of nervous membrane composed of very deli- cate reticulated, and, as it were, diffluent ramifications. The other advances towards the approximated orifices of the superior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals, where it bifurcates, mingles with the pulp which bulges in the form of ampullae at their origin, and thus disappears in a manner still unknown. 1694. Middle Twig. This twig, which is divided into two fiW ments, and immediately enters into the vestibule, loses itself in the membrane which hnes that cavity by a multitude of very subtile, soft, and white ramifications. 1695. S?nall Twig. Placed beneath the others, it enters into the vestibule by a single aperture, which is observed at the outer part qf the internal auditory canal. It directs itself towards the posterior vertical semicircular canal, and seems to be prolonged in its interior after being expanded on the pulpy ampulla which is pbscryed at its orifice.