ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. S98 contained. Frequently a very small portion of this surface extends beyond the pectoralis major, and is covered by the skin. Its pos- terior surface is applied upon the ribs, the external intercostal muscles, the serratus magnus, the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. Its upper edge is shorter than the lower. 1081. The pectorahs minor draws the shoulder forwards and downwards, and carries the lower angle of the scapula backwards. It may act upon the ribs in the same manner as the pectoralis ma- jor. 1082. This muscle is exposed on raising the preceding. OF THE SUBCJLAVIUS. 1083. The Subclavius is a small round muscle, shghtly com- pressed from before backwards, slender at its extremities, which are tendinous, and bulging in the middle, which is fleshy. It is extend- ed obliquely at the upper and fore part of the thorax, between the cartilage of the first rib and the clavicle. It originates from the cartilage and sometimes even from the osseous part of the rib, be- fore the costo-clavicular ligament, by a flat tendon, which, after be- ing prolonged behind the fleshy body, loses itself in its interior. It then ascends obliquely outwards and backwards, and is lodged in the groove which is observed at the lower surface of the clavicle. It then terminates by aponeurotic fibres, which proceed outwards to the coraco-clavicular ligament, and frequently to the coracoid process itself. 1084. The anterior surface of the subclavius muscle is covered by the pectoralis major. Between them, however, there is seen a thin aponeurosis, of a variable and irregular form, which is only absolutely connected with the bony parts, and descends from the clavicle and coracoid process towards the first rib. Its poste- o'ior suiface is applied upon the axillary vessels and the nerves of the brachial plexus; it corresponds to a triangular space, circum- scribed by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and trapezius. Its lower edge is free, and separated from the first rib by the axillary vessels and brachial plexus; the upper is fixed to the clavicle in its two outer thirds. 1085. This muscle lowers and carries forward the clavicle, and consequently the tip of the shoulder. It can also, by an opposite action, raise the first rib. 1086. This muscle is dissected by removing the parts covering its anterior surface (1084). OF THE SEKllATUS MAGNUS. IO87. The Senatus rnaxjnus, which is situated on the sides of the thorax, partly concealed by the shoulder, is very broad, thm,