ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIONT. 346 case in the system of muscles under the influence of the cerebral nerves. 1273. We have said that the centre of the diaphragm was oc- cupied by an aponeurosis, to which the fleshy fibres are at- tached. This aponeurosis, called the Cordiform Tendon, is of considerable breadth ; it is distinctly notched behind towards the vertebral column, and anteriorly is three lobed, on which account it has been compared to a trefoil leaf. Of the three lobes of this aponeurosis, the middle is the largest, the right is a little less, and the left the smallest. Some variations, however, are observable in this respect. ] 274. The fibres of the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, which are larger in men than in women, and more distinct in old than in young persons, are all of different lengths and directions. In their general disposition, however, they are radiated, proceeduig from the posterior notch to the circumference of the lobes; but they are interlaced many times with each other, and with more superficial and looser planes of fibres, which occur at the upper and under surfaces of the muscle, and describe nearly transverse curves, an arrangement which is especially evident on the right side. They are white and shining, with a pearly and satiny lustre, and are denser toward the upper surface of the aponeurosis than toward the lower. Between the right and middle lobes, near the vertebral column, is an aperture of a square form, with unequal sides; it gives pas- sage to the vena cava inferior, to which it adheres pretty strongly. Its anterior side is the shortest, and not very distinct from the right, which is the longest. Each of its sides is formed by a par- ticular layer of aponeurotic fibres, which are interlaced with the neighbouring layers at its extremities. 1275. Besides this aperture for the vena cava inferior, there fre- quently occurs a hole for the diaphragmatic vein, and one or two other holes for the venae cavae hepatica;, which are all formed in the cordiform tendon. 1276. The fleshy fibres proceed from the whole circumference of this aponeurosis, to be directed forwards, laterally, and back- wards. 1277. The anterior fibres, which are very short and not nume- rous, are directed downwards and forwards, to the xiphoid cartilage, where they terminate by short aponeurotic fibres. Between these fibres and those which come from the cartilage of the seventh rib, there is a triangular interval with its base below, by which the cellular tissue of the thorax communicates with that of the abdo- men. The size of this interval varies much, sometimes it is wanting. 1278. The lateral fibres are the most numerous. They arise from the right and left lobes, and proceed, diverging and curving toward the circumference of the base of the chest, to be attached to the inner surface of the last six ribs, by digitations which are 5