^6 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, aire a little inclined downwards, and constitute a bundle, thick at its commencement, and separated from the rest of the muscle by a cellular line. Those which arise from the upper part of the ster- num, and from the cartilages of the five first ribs, are a little longer, and proceed horizontally. Lastly, the lower, which are the longest, proceed obliquely upwards, and approach the more to the vertical direction the lower they are. 1075. These fleshy fibres, by gradually converging toward each other, render the muscle very narrow and thick at its outer part. There they cover each other, in such a manner, that the upper are placed more superficially than the lower; and give rise to a tendon, which fixes the muscle to the humerus. This tendon, much broader than it seems to be at first sight, is folded upon itself from befoi-e backwards, and from below up- wards, and is thus composed of two laminte, placed one before the other, separated above, and united below. The posterior lamina, which is broader, receives the inferior fleshy fibres of the muscle, which cross the direction of the superior fibres. Above, it sends off" an aponeurotic prolongation, which ascends before the bicipital groove of the humerus to unite, upon the larger tuberosity of that bone, with the tendon of the supra-spinatus, and it sends into the same groove a fibrous lamina, confounded with that detach- ed from the tendon of the teres major and latissimus dorsi. ■ The two laminae of the tendon of the pectoralis major, are at first separated by cellular tissue, but afterwards intimately unite, and are inserted together into the anterior edge of the bicijiital groove, sending off from their lower edge a considerable number of fibres to the brachial aponeurosis. 1076. The anterior surface of the pectoralis major is covered above by the platysma myoides, at the middle by the correspond- ing mamma, and in the rest of its extent by the skin. Its posterior surface covers, from within outwards, a part of the anterior sur- face of the sternum, the cartilages of the true ribs, and a part of their bony portion, the thoracic vessels and nerves, the subclavius, the pectoralis minor, inter-costales externi, serratus magnus, rectus abdominis and obliquus abdominis, muscles. Toward the hollow of the axilla, this surface is in contact with a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, with lymphatic ganglions, the axillary ves- sels, and the nerves of the brachial plexus. Close to its insertion Hito the humerus, it passes before the coraco-brachiaUs and biceps. It is separated from all these parts by a layer of cellular tissue, which becomes so much the thicker the nearer it is to the axilla. The inner edge of the pectoraUs major is mterlaced with that of the opposite muscle as far as the ensiform cartilage, and is then gradually lost in the linea alba of the abdomen. Its upper edge is contiguous externally with the deltoid muscle, from which it is se- parated by an interval broader above than below, and in which the cephalic vein is lodged in the midst of cellular tissue. Lastly, its inferior edge^ which is thin internally, and much thicker externally