4-94 ORGANS OF SENSATION. filaments wliich may be distinguished into radial and ulnor, and i -which proceed obUquely downwards, to be distributed to the in- I teguments of this part of the upper extremity, anastomosing on the one hand with the twigs of the external cutaneous nerve, and i on the other, with those of the internal branch of the internal cu- | taneous nerve itself (1757)- I 1757- Internal Branch. This may be regarded as the conti- p nuation of the trunk. It continues to descend upon the brachialis , internus muscle, accompanied by the basilic vein. Near the inner i condyle it divides into two twigs. Of these, the anterior directs it- i self obliquely over the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, passing 1 sometimes behind sometimes before the median-basiUc vein, and 1 then furnishes, especially by its inner side, several filaments which i descend very far behind the fore-arm and ramify in its integuments ; |) some of them extend as fjir as the inner edge of the hand. The I posterior turns backwards under the condyle, descends along the ulna, and terminates by a great number of filaments which may be I followed in the integuments as far as the back of the hand and to near the little finger. OF THE KXTKUNAL CUTANEOUS NEEVE. (Nervus perforans Casserii seu musculo-cutaneus.) 1758. A little larger than the preceding, but smaller than the Other brachial nerves, it arises from the outer part of tlie plexus, and comes in particular from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, which, after forming a single trunk as far as the common origin of the biceps and coraco-brachialis, divide anew into two divergent cords, the inner of which passes before the axillary artery to con- tribute to the formation of the median nerve, while the outer con- stitutes the nerve of which we here speak. 1759. This nerve descends at first obliquely outwards behind the ! coraco-brachialis muscle, then passes through it, (1132), after sup- | plying it with a very slender filament which may be traced until its insertion into the humerus. After this, it descends along the inner and fore part of the arm, between the brachialis internus and biceps muscles, giving off several twigs to them. One of these twigs, which is larger than the others, descends inwards, divides into two filaments, and proceeds as far as the lower extremity of the brachialis internus. Another follows the same direction, and communicates with the median nerve towards the lower part of the arm. The external cutaneous nerve then disengages itself on the outside of the tendon of the biceps, traverses the middle of the bend of the arm under the median-cephalic vein, and descends along the fore and outer part of the fore-arm, between the aponevi- rosis and the skin. When it has arrived near the wrist, it divides into two branches, an outer and an inner, and so terminates.