ORGANS OF ClUCULATIOV. they are destitute of valves. ' I are both difficult to be exposed, being concealed by the vena cava superior and the neighbouring part of" the right auricle. The two Left Pulmonary Veins follow the same course, and are merely a little nearer each other. 2264. The pulmonary veins have the same structure as the other veins of the body, from which they differ in the circumstance that during life they contain red blood. It is by them that the blood is carried to the left cavities of the heart, after its elaboration in the lungs. LEFT PART OF THE HEART. OF THE LEFT AURICLE. (Auricula Sinistra s. Posterior.) 2265. Situated at the upper, posterior, and left part of the lieart, the Left Auricle is almost entirely concealed by the great vessels of the base of that organ, so that, at first sight, there is nothing perceived but its appendage (proper auricle), near the left side of the pulmonary artery. Its form is somewhat cubical, while that of the right auricle may be in some measure compared to a segment of an ovoid. Its capacity is about a fifth less than that of the latter. Posteriorly, it rests upon the vertebral column from which it is separated by the pericardium. Anteriorly and internally, it is unit- ed to the rest of the heart. From its inner and upper part there is seen rising an appendage similar to that of the right auricle (2250), but smaller and directed to the right. Its edges are equally jagged, but its form is triangular. 2266. Its inner surface presents four walls or sides for exami- nation :— 1°. The posterior side is smooth and presents nothing remark- able below. Above it receives the right pulmonary veins. 2°. The anterior presents, below, a wide apperture which leads into the left ventricle, and, above, the cavity of the appendage, ' •which contains much fewer muscuH pectinati than that of the right appendage (2252, 2°). 3°. The right is smooth and formed by the inter-auricular sep- ' turn (2252, 4°). There is observed upon it a semilunar valve which ' presents its concave edge anteriorly and to the left, and forms the bottom of the fossa ovaUs, of which we have spoken. J 4°. The left is perforated by the two corresponding pulmonary I veins, the orifices of which are very near each other, and even seem 1 often to be confounded. Like those of the right pulmonary veins, I