498 ORGANS 01- SENSATION. and whose convexity furnishes some filaments. Of these, the two first are distributed to the muscles of the little finger, four or five others dive into the svibstance of the interossei muscles, and lose themselves towards the back of the hand, while those which ter- minate the twig are expanded in the adductor poUicis and abductor indicis muscles. The superficial twig gives a filament to the muscles of the little finger beneath the pisiform bone, and presently divides into two secondary twigs, an outer and an inner. The outer is the larger. It descends vertically beneath the palmar aponeurosis, gives off a filament which anastomoses with the last digital twig of the me- dian nerve (I77I)) furnishes another to the fourth lumbricalis, and bifurcates in such a manner that one of its ramifications de- scends along the ulnar side of the ring finger, and the other along the radial side of the little finger, being in other respects distribut- ed precisely in the same manner as that of the median nerve. The inner directs itself obliquely inwards, gives, at first, filaments to the muscles of the internal palmar region, before which it passes, and gains the ulnar edge of the little finger, at the extremity of which it anastomoses by an arch with the preceding. 1776. Dorsal Branch. Much smaller than the palmar, and winding between the inferior part of the ulna and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, it gains the inner part of the back of the hand, where, after giving one or two filaments to the integuments, it se- parates into two twigs, an inner and an outer. The inner descends along the ulnar edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, gives a great number of filaments to the abductor minimi digiti and the integuments, and loses itself on the dorsal surface of the little finger. The outer passes between the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, and divides at a greater or less height into two filaments, one of which descends backwards over the radial side of the little finger and the ulnar side of the ring finger, while the other is distributed on the radial side of the latter, and ulnar side of the middle finger. These ramifications distribute a great number of filaments to the skin of the back of the fingers, and anastomose at their ex- tremities with themselves, or, on that of the middle finger with the radial nerve. . * OF THE RADIAL Oil MtTSCULO-SPIRAI. NERVE. (Ncrvus Radialis). 1777- It arises from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, where it is especially formed by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and first dorsal. Its volume equals that of the median nerve, and even sometimes exceeds it. It descends at first obliquely from before backwards between the three portions