PRELIMINAHY OBSERVATIONS. 7 milar in texture to tlie tendons, of a pearly white colour, being iri- descent, glistening, and sattiny. They are more or less broad and strong, are elastic, but not extensible. They envelop the muscles and afford attachment to their fleshy fibres. c. The Elastic Tissue forms organs of a peculiar yellowish tint, possessed of extreme elasticity, and of an albuminous and fibrinous nature. It is always in a state of antagonism to the action of gravity and muscular contraction, as may be observed in the ar- teries, the Hgamenta ;flava of the vertebral column, Sec. G. The Cartilages, (Cartilagines). The substance of these bo- dies, which is of an opaque white colour, is less compact, less heavy, less hard, but more elastic than that of the bones, and is capable of being reduced to gelatine by boiling. They are flexible and elas- tic, and sometimes serve as a prolongation to the bones, as is the case with those that are observed between the ribs and sternum, {cartilages of prolongation); or they cover their articular extremi- ties, as in all the moveable joints, (cartilages of incrustation). In other cases, they epter into the formation of organs, as the larynx, the nose, &c. The direction of their fibres is not easily perceived, because they are so close that at first sight they appear to form a homogeneous whole. a. The Fibro-Cartilages, or Membraniform Cartilages, are in- termediate between cartilages, properly so called, and ligaments, indeed they appear to be nothing but the latter incrusted with ge- latine. They possess great flexibility, are highly elastic, very thin, and compose certain organs, such as the external ear, and the tra- chea ; they also enter into the structure of the joints, as may be seen in the articulations of the clavicle, the lower jaw, the knee joint, &c. (interarticularjibro-cartilages). Cartilages of this kind also exist wherever there is much friction of a tendon upon the periosteum of a bone, as is observed on the grooves at the lower extremity of the tibia, fibula, &c. (Jibro-cartilages of incrustatiofi). H. The Bones (Ossa) are the hardest, most compact and solid parts of the body. They serve as a basis and support for the other organs, and are composed of a cartilaginous and cellular organized parenchyma, incorporated with earthy salts. The aggregate of all the bones of the body bears the name of skeleton. I. The Muscles (Musculi) are organs of a red or reddish co- lour, possessed of great irritability and contractiUty. They are composed of a fibrous tissue collected into fasciculi of various sizes, which are kept together by cellular tissue, in which are seen ves- sels and nerves ; what is peculiarly characteristic of the muscular h ] composed of a linear series of microscopic glo- ^i^' AT^ constitute what is named the Jlesh of animals. Nervous fibre—This is the peculiar substance of which the Drain and nerves arc composed. It presents itself under two dif-