of Tilt INTERNAL CAUOtID ARtEUY. 665 jects. In nil this part of its covxrsc, the internal carotid artery fur- nishes no branch. 235G. In passing through the carotid canal, it accommodates itself to the different directions which it follows (179), so that from being at first vertical, it afterwards directs itself a little obliquely forwards and upwards. This portion of the internal carotid artery is surrounded by the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganghon (1875) and the lamina of the dura mater •which lines the canal. Before emerging, it gives off a small branch, which penetrates by a particular aperture into the cavity of the tympanum, to be distributed to its mucous membrane and to the promontory, on which it anastomoses with a twig of the middle meningeal artery. Frequently also it furnishes another which enters from behind forwards into the Vidian canal, and there anastomoses with the artery of the same name (2351.) 2357. On emerging from the canal, the internal carotid artery directs itself upwards and a little forwards, enters into the caver- nous sinus of the dura mater (1579), and follows anteriorly its lower wall, on the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone, to above the anterior clinoid process, being enveloped by the inner mem- brane of the sinus and accompanied by the sixth nerve and caver- nous ganglion (1873). In this course, the artery forms two curves which pretty exactly resemble those of a Roman S. The convex- ity of the first is turned backwards and upwards, and that of the second forwards and downwards. While contained in the caver- nous sinus, the internal carotid artery sends two or three twigs to the dura mater, the pituitary body, the membrane of the sphe- noidal sinuses and the trunks of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixtli pairs of nerves. 2358. Arrived under the anterior clinoid process, it curves ver- tically upwards, then directs itself a little backwards, is embraced by the dura mater (1560) and arachnoid membrane (1589), and enters into the cranium a little externally and posteriorly of the optic nerve. It is afterwards enveloped with a sheath which is furnished to it by the arachnoid membrane, ascends obliquely back- wards and outwards, and separates into several branches opposite the fissura Sylvii (1-506), where it terminates. But before this, ■whilst ascending along the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid artery furnishes a very remarkable branch, which is the following. OPHTHALMIC AUTERV. 2359. The Ophthalmic Artery CArt. ophthahnica) is not large. Immediately after its commencement, it enters into a small canal which the dura mater presents to it, places itself on the outer and lower part of the optic nerve, passes along with it through the optic foramen, and enters the orbit between the nei-vc of the sixth