7'1'^2 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE VEIKS WHICH, BY UNITING, FORM THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. 2708. Brachial Veins. The collateral arteries of the fingers, the branches of the palmar arches, these arches themselves, the ra- dial and ulnar arteries, and all their divisions, are accompanied each by two veins which exactly follow their course, and which become larger and larger as they ascend towards the elbow joint, where they form four principal and deep veins, which unite two and two, so as afterwards to constitute two large trunks. These run along the brachial artery, and embrace it at different points by anastomosing twigs, which they send off to each other. They re- ceive in their course all the veins which accompany the divisions of the artery, as the vena anastomotica, the deep humeral vein, he. and open into the axillary vein at the same place as the basilic. 2709. Cephalic Vein (vena cephalica). It commences by a great number of radicles, disposed in the form of a net-work on the back of the hand, and upon the muscles of the thumb. These radicles unite into a single trunk, which takes the name of Cephalic Vein of the Thumb (Vena cephalica pollicis) and bends inwards upon the muscles of the first interosseal space. This trunk ascends along the anterior and external part of the fore-arm, where it forms the Superficial Radial Vein. It receives on all hands numerous subcutaneous twigs, and on arriving at the bend of the arm, unites with the median-cephalic vein, which as- cends outwards in the triangular space formed in that place by the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, and is larger than the superficial radial vein. These two veins, thus united, form the trunk of the cephalic, which ascends vertically at the outer and fore part of the arm, along the external edge of the biceps muscle, at first under the skin, and afterwards in the cellular interval which separates the pectoralis major and deltoid. Then, bending inwards, under the clavicle, it opens singly, or by several branches, into the axillary vein, frequently communicating by a twig with the external jugu- lar vein. In all this course it only receives a very small number of secondary veins. 2710. Basilic Vein (Vena basilica). This vein, which is larger than the cephalic, is formed by two branches, which are named the Posterior Ulnar, and Anterior Ulnar Veins. The Posterior Ubiar, which is larger than the anterior, com- mences on the inner part of the back of the hand, and on the posterior surface of the fingers, by a net-work formed by a great number of radicles frequently anastomosing together, and with those of the cephalic vein of the thumb and superficial radial vein, and united internally of the hand into a single trunk, named the Vena saltmtella. This vein, ascending upon the inner part of the fore-arm, assumes the name of posterior ulnar. It receives