ORGANS OF SENSATION. 550 come from the short ciliary arteries. Their veins empty them- selves into the vasa vnrticosa of the choroid membrane. No lym- phatics have as yet been detected in them. The intervals which exist between these laminae are filled with a blackish tenacious substance, which resembles that on the inner surface of the choroid membrane, and also serves to unite them to the anterior part of the vitreous body. Sir Everard Home mentions his having found in these intervals, bundles of muscular fibres, arising circularly from the hyaloid membrane, passing over the edges of the lens, and terminating at its capsule, without hav- ing any connexions, either with the ciliary processes, or the iris. I have not yet succeeded in discovering them, although I have made a great many dissections for the purpose. OF THE RETINA. 1970. The retina is a soft, pulpy membrane of a grayish colour, transparent, and extremely thin, extended from the optic nerve to the crystalline lens, embracing the vitreous body, and lining the choroid membrane, without contracting any adhesion to these two parts. It commences posteriorly around a small tubercle formed by the extremity of the optic nerve (1632), but does not at all ap- pear to result from its expansion. The optic nerve, in fact, says M. Ribes, is distributed in the retina, as the olfactory and acoustic nerves in the pituitary membrane and membrane of the labyrinth.* Besides, the tint of these two organs is altogether different. At the level of the ciliary processes, the retina forms a some- what thicker rim, from which proceeds an excessively delicate and pulpy lamina, which is reflected over these small bodies, sinks into their intervals, and arrives at the crystalline lens. It is this substance which, between the ciliary processes, is tinged by the pigmentum nigrum. 1971- A.t about two lines distance from the optic nerve, and to the outside of it, there is perceived, on the inner surface of the re- tina, a spot of a yellow colour, pretty deep in adults, paler in child- ren and old people. This spot is about a line broad, and is placed exactly in the direction of the axis of the eye. It is surrounded by several folds, of which one only appears to be constant, and in its centre is observed an irregular and very narrow hole. These dif- ferent circumstances were observed by Soemmering in 1791-1* * The examination of the retina under the microscope by Dr. Brewster and my- self goes to disapprove this opinion of M. Ribes.—K. -|- I disproved some years ago tlie constancy of this fold, and showed it to be a post-mortem appearance. The foramen of the retina, which was discovered by Soemmering, affects only the outer or pulpy layer of the retina. It was supposed by its distinguished discoverer to be peculiar to the human nice, but it was soon after shown, by Michaelis, to be present in the quadrumana, and by myself it was disco- vered in the chameleon, and in certain lizards. Vide the Tninsactions of the Wer- iierian Society, vol. v. part 1st, and those of the Uoyal Society of Edinburgh, vol. x. part 1st.—K.