784. ORGANS OF SECRETION. OF THE SUBLINGUAL GLAND. 2881. The Sublingual Gland is placed in the substance of the inferior wall of the mouth, under the fore part of the tongue, and seems in general to be merely a sort of appendage to the submaxil- lary gland. Its position is nearly horizontal, and its direction pa- rallel to that of the opposite side. It is smaller than the submaxil- lary gland, of an oblong form with its greatest diameter from be- hind forwards, transversely flattened, and nearly of the shape of an almond. It rests upon the mylo-hyoideus muscle, which sepa- rates it from the preceding gland, and is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, beneath which it forms a prominence. It is, moreover, in connexion internally^ with the genio-glossus muscle; anteriorly, with the body of the jaw; posteriorly, with the deepest extremity of the submaxillary gland, with which it often appears confounded between the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoi- deus muscles. 2882. This gland has several excretory ducts, whose disposition is liable to much variation. They are always very slender. Six or eight proceed from its upper part to open upon the sides of the fra?num linguag, while five or six others issue from its lateral parts, and perforate singly the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Two, three, or even a greater number, are also seen to end in the sub-maxillary duct; these latter are very short, and frequently unite into a single trunk before terminating. All these ducts appear to have the same structure as that of the sub-maxil- lary gland, and like it are thin and transparent. 2883. The arteries of the sublingual glands come from the fa- cial and sublingual; their nerves are furnished by the lingual and hypoglossal. OF THE PANCREAS, Or Secreting Organ of the Pancreatic Fluid. 2884. The Pancreas^ is a gland which is deeply seated in tlie abdomen, lying across the vertebral column, between the three curvatures of the duodenum, behind the stomach, and to the right of the spleen. Its form is irregular and very variable, as are also its extent and weight, the latter being from two to six ounces. This organ, which is much longer than broad, and flattened from before backwards, is slightly concave posteriorly, to be ac- commodated to the curvature of the vertebral column. Its right extremity is larger than the left. 2885. Its anterior surface, which is inclined upwards, is cover- • nSv, oimic; x^'tas, caro; all fleshy. 2