PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 66 and united to the etlimoid bone ; 5° An upper, smooth and plam, forming tlie innermost part of the floor of the orbit, separated from tlic outer by a small blunt edge, •which contributes to the formation of tlie sphono-maxillary fissure. , 216. The other eminence of this edge, wliich is smaller, less ele- vated, broader, and laterally flattened, has received the name of Sphenoidal Proccsn. Internally, it is smooth and concave, and forms part of the nasal fossiu ; externally, it enters into the com- position of the zygomatic fossa; at the upper part, where it is very narrow, it imites with the sphenoid bone, and presents a groove which forms the pterygo-palatine canal: in this dii-ectiou also, it is articulated with the turbinated bone of the sphenoid. 217. These two processes are separated from each other by an almost circular notch, converted by the sphenoid bone into a hole, named the Spheno-palathie, which corresponds to the nervous ganglion of the same name, and gives passage to nerves and ves- sels which penetrate into the nasal fossae. Sometimes the sphe- noid bone does not in any degree contribute to the formation of this hole, which is entirely formed in the palate bone, a bony plate then stretching horizontally from one process to the other; very generally also the sphenoidal turbinated bone closes its sum- mit. 218. Structure and Development. The palate bones are very thin, and almost entirely formed of compact tissue, presenting cel- lular tissue only in the processes and horizontal portion. Their development, which is yet but little known, appears to take place by a single point of ossification, situated at the union of the verti- cal, horizontal, and pyramidal portions. 219- Articulations. This bone is articulated with the sphenoid and ethmoid, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the upper max- illary bone, the lower turbinated bone, the vomer, and the opposite palate bone. OF THE VOMER.* 220. The Vomer is an azygous bone, situated in the median line, and consequently symmetrical,! forming the posterior part of the septum of the nasal fossae. It is thin, flat, quadrilateral, and smooth on its lateral surfaces, which only present vascular fur- rows, and a narrow groove at the lower part which marks the pas- sage of the naso-palatine nerve. It is always covered by the pi- • Vomer, a plougli-sliiire. It must not liowL'ver be imngincd that the bones situated in the median line are tlie only ones capiible of bi'ing divided into two (Hiiial parts. Ulany others arc ccpially symmetrical, as l)umc-ril has remarked. Of this kind, for example, are the phalanges of the fingers and toes.