781 OF TlIE PAROTID GLAND^ Of the SaUvary Glands in Particular. OF THE PAROTID GLAND.* 2872. Tlie Parotid Gland is the largest of the salivary glands. ' It is situated partly before and partly beneath the external ear, filling' 1 up the deep excavation on the sides of the face, between the posterior tedge of the ramus of the lower jaw, the meatus auditorius ex- 1 ternus, and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It extends 1 vertically from the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw. Its t form is that of a very irregular pyramid, with an oval base directed i outwards. 2873. Its outer surface, which is broad, flat, oval^ slightly con- ivex, and having no precise limits, extends more or less upon the i face. It is covered by some fibres of the platysma myoides and Iby the skin, under which creep some nervous filaments. Its cir- i cumference is prolonged anteriorly over the masseter muscle, and ! superiorly over the articulation of the jaw. At the under part of s this circumference, from which Steno's duct takes its rise, the \ branches of the facial nerve are seen emerging. 2874. The anterior surface corresponds above to the articula- \ tion of the lower jaw, externally to the posterior edge of the same 1 bone, and internally to the pterygoideus intemus muscle. It is 1 moulded upon these different parts, and penetrates into their in- I tervals. 2875. Its posterior surface is connected by pretty dense cellu- 1 lar tissue with the meatus auditorius externus, the mastoid pro- (cess, the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the styloid process, and the muscles 1 which arise from it. It is coasted internally by the internal caro- 1 tid artery, and by the internal jugular vein. The external carotid : artery, at its termination, and especially the superficial temporal 5 artery, are also in connexion with this surface of the parotid gland. They are even generally enveloped by its parenchyma, especially t the latter, which traverses it from below ujjwards ; while the facial I nerve, which is also placed in the gland during part of its course, {passes transversely through it. 2876. The parotid gland furnishes, by each of the granulations ( of which it is composed, a very slender excretory duct, which unites 1 with those in its vicinity, in the manner of veips, to form somc- 1 what larger twigs, then branches, and lastly a considerable trunk jt named the Parotid Duct or Steno''s Duct, {ductus Stenonianus.) j This duct emerges from the fore and outer part of the gland, a I little above the middle of the height of the masseter muscle, over ' which it proceeds horizontally, from behind forwards, to turn over, I its anterior edge, and sink into the adipose cellular tissue of the • n«j*, jiixta ; is, uTot, mil ls.