ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 670 the sl<ull, and loses itself by subdividing in the portion of the dura mater which lines the middle anterior fossa of the base of that cavity. Some of its twigs communicate with those of the an- terior ethmoidal; others enter the nasal fossa? along with the ol- factory nerves by the holes of the ethmoid grooves. 2375. The Anterior Ethmoidal Artery. It separates from the ophthalmic opposite the anterior internal orbitar foramen, into which it penetrates along with the internal nasal nerve (1653). Before entering the skull, it throws several twigs into the membrane of the frontal sinus and anterior ethmoid cells; and when it has arrived there divides into a great number of twigs, some of which ascend upon the falx cerebri, whilst the greater part enter into the nasal fossae by the holes of the ethmoid bone, and are spread out to a greater or less distance upon the pituitary membrane. 237c. The Inferior Palpebral Artery. It arises from the oph- thalmic a little beyond the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquua oculi superior muscle, and is even sometimes given off by the nasal artery. It descends nearly vertically behind the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and furnishes at first some twigs to that muscle, the lachrymal sac and the caruncula lachrymalis. It then bifurcates. One of its branches loses itself in the inferior half of the orbicularis palpebrarum; the other directs itself out- wards, along the attached edge of the inferior tarsal fibro-carti- lage, and is distributed to that cartilage, the Meibomian glands, the tunica conjunctiva and the skin. 2377- The Superior Palj)ebral Artery. It arises beside and a little before the preceding, and even frequently by a trunk common to both. It sends at first a branch into the upper half of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and some small twigs to the lachry- mal sac, the caruncula lachrymalis, and the tunica conjunctiva. It is not rare to see one of the anterior ciliary arteries also sepa- rating from it at the same point. It then passes between the fleshy fibres of the muscle, proceeds outwards along the superior tarsal cartilage, and terminates by anastomosing with one of the twigs of the lachrymal artery. In its course, it exhibits precisely the same circumstances as the preceding. Branches which terminate the Ophthalmic Artery. 2378. The Nasal Artery. Its volume varies much and is sometimes very large. It issues from the orbit above the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, passes over the side of the root of the nose, and in descending gives some twigs to the lachrymal sac and the neighbouring muscles. It anastomoses more or less low with the last extremity of the facial artery (2312), after having formed by its numerous ramifications a very apparent vascular net- work.