PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 4. It is of them that the organs are really formed; they are composed of the same elements as the fluids, which they enclose, and either retain them or allow them to escape; but they are always so com- bined with them as nowhere to exist in an isolated state. 13. Every organ, then, is a compound of fluids and solids, and has for its principal basis the latter under the form of an areolar or cellular tissue, which is soft, extensile, contractile, and permeable to fluids. This tissue is capable of being niodified in various ways, being sometimes expanded into membranes, sometimes rolled up so as to form canals—in short, it is found under many different as- pects. Besides this there are two other elementary tissues ; the nervous and muscular, which are the basis of the instruments of sensation and locomotimi. The figure of the organs is generally rounded ; their colours are white, red and brown ; their consistence presents all the gradations from extreme softness to extreme hardness; their texture is some- times fibrous, sometimes laminar, at other times it has the appear- ance of being homogeneous: their bulk and complication are as various as their other properties. 14. By the mechanical division of the solids, there are always ultimately obtained minute laminfe or filaments, which seem to \>q their elementary molecules, by the combination of which all the kinds of tissues observed in the animal 'Economy are produced. The extreme term of this division, however, is yet unattained, for the smallest perceptible fibres inay be divided into others still smaller. 15. All that can be learned with certainty on this subject is, that in the human body, and in those animals whose structure is similar, the organic elements are formed of microscopic globules and an amorphous substance, which in the fluids is liquid, in the solids concrete, coagulable in the one kind, and coagulated in the other. OF THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF TISSUES. 16. The elementary fibres or lamellae variously combined or as- sociated, form tissues more or less compound, which, by their ar- rangement in a particular manner, compose the organs; these either alone, or in combination, produce the different actions of the animal body: where several organs are combined to perform one action, they are called an apparatus. No organ is isolated, but they are all interlaced and mutually connected. The Tissues are as follows :— A. The Cellular or Mucous* Tissue, ( Tela cellulosa seu mu- cosa) is an assemblage of whitish, filamentous, extensile, tenaci- ous, and retractile laminae. It is met with in all parts of the body • " The cellular tissue lias been so called by Bordeu and other Anatomists, parti- j I