ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. HSl 769. Synovial Meivhmnes. The first metatarsal bone and in- ternal cuneiform have one entirely separate, and strengthened in- ternally by a prolongation ol" the tendon of the tibialis anticus. Another is common to the articulations of the second metatarsal with the three cuneiform bones, and of the first two of these with each other. There is one for the union of the third meta- tarsal bone with the third cuneiform, which sends prolongations between the surfaces of the two neighbouring metatarsal articula- tions. Lastly, a single synovial membrane serves for the articula- tion of the two last metatarsal bones with each other and with the OS cuboides. ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSAL BONES WITH EACH OTHER. 77^^- These articulations have a great resemblance to those of the metacarpus. As in the hand, the first metatarsal bone is not immediately articulated with the next, posteriorly ; but anteriorly, the transverse ligament of the toes extends to it. The other four are directly articulated at their posterior extremities, by means of surfaces covered with cartilage, and lined by prolongations of the synovial membranes of the preceding articulations. There are here dorsal and plantar ligaments^ similar to each other, and to those of the metacarpus (698). They extend transversely in each region from the second to the third, from the third to the fourth, and from the fourth to the fifth metatarsal bones. There are, besides, inter- osseous fibres between the points of the non-articular surfaces. 771- Transverse Metatarsal Ligament. It connects together the anterior extremities of the five metatarsal bones, which have no direct connexion by bony surfaces, and is in all respects simi- lar to that of the heads of the last four metacarpal bones which "we have described (699). ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSAL RONES WITH THE PHALANGES. 772. These articulations which constitute arthrodias, are formed by means of surfaces covered with cartilage (527—535), and strengthened by two lateral ligaments and an inferior, perfectly similar to the lateral and anterior hgaments of the articulations between the metacarpus, and phalanges of the fingers (701, 702). The synovial membrane is only here a little looser, and more ex- tended than in the hands.