ORGANS OF SENSATION. 512 are distributed. Those which are liiglicst gain the sides of th< neck and body of the uterus, where they expand. They are lesf numerous than those of the vagina. 1833. All these nerves are so intermingled with each other tliat it becomes very difficult to trace them individually. They art besides interlaced, in a more or less intimate manner with the fila ments of the lumbar and sacral ganglia which form the hypogas trie plexus, so that they really contribute to the formation of thai plexus. or THE POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE SCIATIC PLEXUS. 1834. Inferior Glutceal or Small Sciatic Nerve. It is furnish cd, at the posterior and inferior part of the plexus, by the seconc and third sacral nerves. It also receives some more or less slen der roots from the fourth sacral and pudic nerve. Leaving th( plexus at the same time with the sciatic nerve, it issues from tli( pelvis along with it by the sciatic notch, and beneath the pyriformu muscle. It then alinost immediately divides into a great numbe of twigs, which are distinguished as follows : ' 1. Ghitceal Twigs properlj/ so called. (Nervi ghitcBi niediui et inferior). Existing in small number, slender and rather short they generally separate from the nerve by a common trunk, p which the ascending twigs, winding over the inferior edge of th( pyriformis muscle, lose themselves by numerous filaments at the upper part of the anterior surface of the glutasus maximus, whih the descending twigs, which are less numerous, are all at once distributed into its substance. One of the ascending twigs, whicl is larger than the rest, directs itself from within outwards, pro- ceeding as far as the outer edge of that muscle. 2. Sciatic Twig. (N. pudendalis longus inferior). It curves inwards and upwards, forming a kind of reversed arch under the tuber ischii. At the end of a short course, it expands into a great ' number of filaments, some of which penetrate into the inner an( lower part of the glutaeus maximus, while the others are distribut ed to the integuments of the inner and upper part of the thigh, the perineum and penis, to the middle region of which they extend. 3. Crural Twig. It is larger than the others, and is placed al their outer part. It passes before the glutaeus maximus, over the lower edge of which some filaments curve upwards to be expanded upon its posterior surface. It then becomes subcutaneous, conti- nues to descend at the back part of the thigh beneath the crural aponeurosis, through which it successively sends to the integuments a great number of filaments which run a longer or shorter course. When it has arrived at the ham, it divides into two or three fila- ments which descend behind the leg superficially, and lose thcHi- selves in its integuments by a great number of subdivisions. The) sometimes extend as far as the heel. 6 I