ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. After intermin<Tling in various ways, and even sometimes after be- ing almost entirely confounded, they terminate by four or five ten- dons, the lowest of which is the longest and strongest, which are attached to the two or three last dorsal, and two first lumbar vertebrae. They frequently receive accessory fleshy fibres, which come to them from the longissimus dorsi. 841. This muscle, by bringing nearer to each other the spinous processes to which it is attached, contributes to extend the verte- bral column, and sometimes to incline it a little to either side, when only one muscle acts. 842. This muscle is exposed at the same time as the longissimus dorsi, to which it is intimately connected: it must, however, be se- parated from it by cutting the connexions, in order to show the attachment of the longissimus dorsi to the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae. OF THE TttANSVERSALIS COLLI. 843. The Tronsversalis Colli {Tra7isviersm Cervicis), is si- tuated on the posterior and lateral parts of the neck, and upper part of the back. It is slender, elongated, flattened from within outwards, thinner at its extremities than in the middle, and arises, most commonly, by six small tendons, from the transverse pro- cesses of the eighth, seventh, sixth, fifth, fourth, and third dorsal vertebrjp. These tendons are so much the longer the lower they are, and cross at right angles those of the longissimus dorsi. They ascend almost vertically, and are replaced by fleshy tongues which cover, and are incorporated with, each other. These tongues, in their turn, are terminated by tendons similar to the preceding, but so much longer the higher they are ; they are accompanied by the fleshy fibres as far as their insertion; they are attached to the lower part of the posterior tubercle of the transverse processes of the sixth, fifth, fourth, third, and second cervical vertebras, so that the muscle is not connected with the two first dorsal, or last cer- vical vertebra. 844. The posterior side of the transversalis colli is almost con- founded above with the trachelo-mastoideus muscle. In the mid- dle, it is covered by the levator anguli scapulae, and the serratus posticus superior; and below, by the longissimus dorsi, with which it is also in part confounded. Its a?iterior side covers the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, from the second cervical to the eighth dorsal. Its outer surface, which inclines a little backwards, corresponds to the splenius, levator anguli scapula?, and cervicalis descendens ; the inner is applied upon the trachelo-mastoideus, coraplexus, and part of the semi-spinalis dorsi. 845. The transversalis colli extends the vertebrae of the neck, and inclines them to its own side.