ORGANIZATION OF THE STOMACH. great extremity, where it seems to replace the circular fibres, which occur there only in small number. A layer of dense and close filamentous cellular tissue unites the muscular to the mucous membrane. This layer the older writers improperly named the nervous coat. 2160. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is of this membrane that the inner surface of the stomach is formed. Soft, spongy, of a red- dish white colour, having a marbled appearance, covered with villo- sities and continually moistened with an abundant inodorous viscid fluid, it presents numerous and purely accidental irregular wrinkles when the stomach is empty. When examined with a lens, especi- ally at some distance from the orifices, it is found to be perforated with a multitude of holes disposed pretty regularly in quincun- cial order, not more than a fifth of a line in diameter separated from one another by partitions, and thus constituting a kind of reticular warp, the tissue of which recurs between the folds and villosities of the mucous membrane of the duodenum, and around Peyer's glands or follicles. It does not at first sight appear to be a conti- nuation of the inner membrane of the oesophagus, there being an apparent line of demarcation perceived between the two mem- branes, caused by the abrupt termination of the epithelium or epi- dermis of the mucous membrane of the cesophagus. The longitu- dinal folds which that of the oesophagus forms terminate at the car- dia by so many maramellae or tubercles; the mucous membrane of the stomach is thicker than that of the oesophagus, which is not covered with villosities. 2161. Between the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, and along the two curvatures only, are observed mucous follicles, of small size, opening on the inside of the viscus by sunk and not very apparent orifices. They are commonly called Brunner''s Glands, from the name of an anatomist who first described them. 2162. At the place where the pylorus presents the least width, there occurs internally a circular rim, which is flattened and per- pendicular to the walls of the orifice. It has been improperly called the Valve of the Pylorus. It is merely a rephcation of the muscular and mucous coats of the stomach, corresponding by one of its surfaces to the cavity of that viscus, and by the other to that of the duodenum, the small circumference of which is thin, free .and floating, so as to circumscribe a narrow aperture by which the chyme passes into the intestines. But its great circumference is .formed by a particular fibrous ring, of a solid texture and white co- lour, placed between the two forementioned membranes. This ling is the Pyloric Muscle of some authors. 2163. The arteries of the stomach are very numerous and large, compared with the volume of the organ and the thickness of its walls. They come from the two gastro-epiploic, the pyloric, the coronary, and the splenic arteries. They creep at first in the cel- lular tissue between the peritoneal and muscular coats; but their secondary divisions pass through the latter, and their ultimate ra- 2 11