OF THE DERMIS AND RETE MUCOSUM. OF THE DEHMIS. * 2090. This is the thickest part of the skin. It is of a white (colour, and possesses great strength. It rests above the adipose (Cellular tissue, and is composed of a cellulo-fibrous base, arteries, ' veins, and nerves, intermingled in an inextricable manner. The tis- :sue which results from this intermixture is firmer and denser exter- I nally, softer and looser internally. The thickness of the dermis varies according to the regions of t the body, the age, and sex. In aU the posterior part of the trunk, i it has nearly double the thickness that it presents at its anterior j part. On the mammee, penis, scrotum, and labia pudendi, it is ; remarkable for its thinness. Its inner surface is distinguished i from the cellular tissue only by a difference of density. Along the ' whole median line, excepting on the fore part of the neck, its ad- ! hesion is pretty firm, although less intimate than on the palm of I the hand or on the sole of the foot. The inner surface also pre- : sents apertures by which hairs introduce themselves into the der- 1 mis to pass through it. They are nearly a third of a line in dia- I meter, and are more or less numerous. In the adult there are com- 1 jnonly about a hundred of them in the square inch on the thigh, ; and two hundred on the arm. The outer surface of the dermis, which is very vascular, is co- ' vered with more or less distinct prominences, named Papillce, 1 which contain numerous nerves and vessels, the latter of which 1 have an erectile disposition. OF THE UETE MUCOSUM. 2091. The rete mucosum, which is situated between the dermis i and epidermis, is a spongy membrane, consisting of three very dis- I tinct layers, which are from within outwards : 1°, a white tissue ; : 2°, an assemblage of small granulations; 3°, another white tissue." 2092. The First Layer rests upon the vascular surface of the I dermis, and its outer surface presents the same eminences and de- pressions that are observed on the epidermis. 2093. The Second Layer is charged with colouring matter which is brown in the Negro, and of an opaque white in the Euro- ! pean. ! , 2094. The Third Layer is white, and of extreme tenuity. It : forms a general membraneous envelope, perforated by the haurs, ' and adhering to the epidermis. * A;^fta, Xa/jiev of tlic Greeks.