ORGANS OF SENSATION. 562 2. The Groove of the Helix, more or less deep and narrow which commences in the concha, follows the whole course of tlu hcUx within and beneath it, and terminates towards the anterio' branch of its inferior bifurcation. 3. The Anti-heliv, an eminence which commences in the groove of the helix, above the concha, by a bifurcated extremity, of which one of the branches is superior, broad, obtuse and oblique, and tlic other inferior, narrow, more prominent and horizontal. They af- terwards unite to form a single prominence, thicker but shorter than the helix, which describes a curve whose concavity is turned forwards and downwards, and terminates, becoming thinner, be- hind and above the anti-tragus, from which it is separated by a slight notch. 4. The Fossa navicularis, the superficial depression which se- parates the two roots of the anti-helix. 5. The Tragus, a kind of small mammillary eminence, placed before the orifice of the auditory canal, which it seems to conceal. Its form is flat and irregularly triangular. Its base is continuous above and below with the rest of the auricle. Its summit is direct- ed backwards and outwards. Its outer edge is separated from the commencement of the helix by a notch. 6. The Anti-tragus, another mammillary eminence smaller than the preceding, situated opposite to it behind, and beneath the an- ti-helix. It is conical, and its summit turned upwards and for- wards. 7. The Concha, a deep cavity, limited behind by the anti-helix, divided into two unequal portions by the helix, limited before by the tragus, and below by the anti-tragus. Its upper portion, which is narrower and transversely elongated, is continuous with the groove of the helix. The lower portion, which is broader and of a some- what triangular form, is continuous anteriorly and internally with the meatus auditorius. 8. The Lobule of the Ear, a soft rounded eminence, of variable size, which terminates inferiorly the circumference of the auricle, and which it is customary in some countries to perforate, for the purpose of suspending rings to it. 1991. The Inner Sicrface of the auricle is inchned backwards. It presents eminences and cavities the reverse of those observed on the outer surface, with the exception of the tragus and anti-tragus, which have nothing to correspond with them here. Free in a great part of its extent and separated from the head by a greater or less interval, it is continuous anteriorly with the temporal re- gion. ORGANIZATION OF THE AUIUCLE. 1992. Of the SJcin. The skin of this region presents a great degree of thinness, particularly upon the different folds. It has a