OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES IN GENERAL. 143 of the fore-arm to form the wrist-joint. At the lower part it is ter- minated by a certain number of articular surfaces, which are con- nected with the metacarpal bones. Externally and internally, it presents inequalities which give insertion to ligaments. 489. Metacarpus {metacarpus). This part of the hand, which is situated between the carpus and fingers, is of a quadrilateral form, broader below than above. It is concave before, convex be- : hind, and presents very distinct intervals existing between the 1 bones of which it is composed, which, with the exception of the I first, are in contact at their upper or proximal extremities. The • space which occurs between the first and second is also much larger ! than the others. It is in these intervals that the interosseous mus- , cles are lodged. 490. The fingers {digiti) * are five in number, and are desig- 1 nated by their numerical name, counting from the radius towards : the vdna. The first is named the Thumb (PoUex); the second the , Forefinger or Index, the latter name being applied to it from its ■ being used to point out a distant object; the third is named the . Middle Finger, on account of its position; the fourth, the Ring , Finger, because it is on it that rings are usually worn; lastly, the fifth is named the Little Finger, from its inferior size, and occa- - sionally the Auricular, from its being the only one that can easily be introduced into tlis external auditory canal. The middle finger is the longest; the index and ring-fingers follow next; the thumb and little finger are the last in this respect. But with regard to thickness, the following is the order which they I follow :—first the thumb, then the middle finger, the fore-finger*, the ring-finger, and lastly, the little-finger. In general, the dorsal surface of the fingers is convex'in the longitudinal, and more es- >pecially in the transverse direction. Their palmar surface pre- iSents a corresponding concavity. The thumb is straighter than ithe others. ( OF THE INFERIOR OR ABDOMINAL EXTREMITIES. (Artus Inferiores.) OF THE THIGH. OF THE FEMDK. 491. Form. The Femur (Os Femoris) is the longest, largest ■and heaviest, of aU the bones of the body. It is of a cylindncal torm, somewhat curved anteriorly, directed obliquely downwards :ancl inwards, and slightly twisted upon itself, so that in the skele- j ton It IS much nearer the corresponding bone of the opposite side at Its lower extremity, than at the upper, where it is separated to a • AaxruXo/ among the Greeks.