ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 3S2 to its insertion, but the tendon of the former cannot be followed until the dissection of the sole of the foot. Posterior and Super^cial Region of the Leg. OF THE GASTI10CN£MIUS. 1418. The Gastrocnemius* {Gemellus)^ is composed of two fleshy masses, called the outer and inner heads, resembling each other in form, separated above, and united below by means of a common aponeurosis. Their direction is nearly vertical, and their form approaching to elliptical; they are convex behind, flat before. The inner is always larger, and descends lower than the outer. The latter arises from the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, by a pretty strong tendon-f- which descends on the outer edge of the muscle over an extent of about two inches, and then degene- rates into an aponeurosis which descends very low upon its pos- terior sui-face. The inner arises from the back and upper part of the inner condyle of the femur, by a broader and thicker tendon, - which descends upon its inner edge, and becomes, in like manner, converted into an aponeurosis. The fleshy fibres arise from these two tendons and their aponeuroses ; they are rather short, pass ob- liquely downwards and forwards, and terminate successively on the posterior surface of a broad aponeurosis, which is at first divided so as to correspond to each bundle, and then becomes simple, and imites them with each other and with the soleus, but much sooner externally than internally. 1419- By their separation, the two heads contribute to the for- mation of the hollow of the ham. The inner is covered above by the semi-membranosus, and in the rest of its extent by the apo- neurosis of the leg, which entirely covers the outer. Their an- terior surface is applied above upon the condyles of the femur, and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, which lines their tendons a little. The outer is in connexion at this place with the popliteus, and the inner with the semi-membranosus, from which it is separated by a small synovial bag of an oval form, and plen-' tifully supplied with moisture, the popliteal artery, and the popli- teus and plantaris muscles : In the rest of its extent, the anterior surface of the gastrocnemius lies upon the soleus. OF THE SOLEUS. 1420. The Soleus X\\ is broad and thick in the middle, con- tracted at the extremities, and of an oval form. Three distinct " Var\hz> venter ; xvh/^n, cms. f Non raro tendo ventris externi os sesamoides excipit. Soemin. De Corp. Hum. Fab. torn. iii. p. 306. + Solea, sole, a species of flounder. _ II Tliis and the preceding muscle form the vwsculus sura of Soemmermg, wnicli pniicipiilly forms the cnlf of (lie leg.