MUSCLES OF THE INFEUIOU EXTliEMITiES. 361 MUSCLES OF THE FORE AND LATERAL PARTS OF THE THIGH. OF THE TENSOR VAGIN-E KICMOUIS. ( Tensor Fascice Latce.) 1329- This muscle, which is situated at the upper and outer part of the thigh, is flat, broader and thinner below than above, and arises externally from the anterior and superior iliac spine, be- tween the sartorius and glutaeus medius, by a very short tendon, more prolonged before than behind. The fleshy fibres descend nearly vertically, diverging as they proceed, and about three inches below the great trochanter terminate in a separation of the two laminae of the fascia lata. 1330. Its Older surface is covered by a thin lamina of the fascia lata. The inner is separated by another, from the rectus femoris and vastus externus; it also covers the glutaeus medius and glu- tasus minimus a little. Its anterior edge, is parallel above to the sartorius, and separates from it below. The posterior is united above to the glutaeus medius. 1321. This muscle rotates the thigh inwards, and carries it out- wards, separating it from the other. Its principal action, however, is to stretch the aponeurosis by which the muscles of the thigh are .'enveloped. OF THE SARTORIUS. 1332. The sartorius is the longest muscle in the human body, and resembles a band, a little broader at its middle than at the extremities, lying obliquely along the inner part of the thigh. It arises, by a short tendon, equally expanded over its two surfaces, from the anterior and superior iliac spine, between the tensor vaginae femoris and iliacus, and a little from the notch which separates the two anterior spines of the ileum. From thence It descends, becoming broader, obliquely inwards and backwards, as far as the upper third of the thigh ; it then proceeds vertically, pre- serving the same breadth to the inferior third; and lastly, opposite the knee, it contracts, and passes obliquely forwards and outwards, to the inner part of the upper extremity of the tibia, where it is in- serted by a pretty long flat tendon, whose anterior edge, arising very high upon the fleshy fibres, is confounded with the portion of the fascia lata which surrounds the knee, while the posterior cori- tnbutes to form the aponeurosis of the leg. At its lower extremi- ty, this tendon expands into a strong aponeurosis which jiasscs over the tendons of the semi-tcndinosus and gracilis, vmiting with them, and terminates upon the tibia before them.