365 MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. ■part of the tibia, unites -with the tendon of the senii-tendinosus, and is attaclied to the bone behind that of the sartorius (1332). JBy its posterior edge it sends a fibrous expansion to the aponeu- rosis of the leg. 1345. Its inner surface is covered by the fascia lata, and be- low by the sartorius. The outei' covers the adductor and semi- membranosus muscles, and the internal ligament of the knee joint. 1316. The gracilis bends the leg upon the thigh, or the thigh iipon the. leg. If the leg is extended, it brings the thigh towards that of the opposite side, &c. OF THE PECTINEUS. 1347. This is an elongated, flat, triangular muscle, broader above than below, situated at the upper and fore part of the thigh. It arises by extremely short aponeuroses, from the upper edge of the pubes, between the spine of that bone and the ileo-pectineal eminence. It descends from thence obliquely outwards and back- wards, contracts, and when it has arrived opposite the small tro- chanter, turns upon itself to be inserted by means of a flat tendon^ which forms sooner before than behind, into the ridge which de- scends from that process to the linea aspera, immediately beneath the insertion of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus. 1348. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata, and the crural vessels and nerves. The posterior lies upon the body of the pubes, the hip joint, the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the obturator vessels and nerve. Its inner edge is a little covered by the long adductor; the outer is parallel to the psoas. . 1349. The pectineus muscle bends the thigh upon the pelvis. It brings it toward that of the opposite side, or turns it outwards in rotation. It also bends the pelvis upon the thigh or keeps it in its natural position. OF THE ADDUCTOR, LONGUS. 1350, This is a long, flat, thick, triangular muscle, broader be- low than above, situated before the other two adductors, at the inner and upper part of the thigh. It arises, by a narrow but strong tendon, from the spine, the anterior surface and sym- physis of the pubes. It is prolonged for a long time under the form of an aponeurosis, over the inner edge of the fleshy body, which descends obliquely outwards and backwards, becoming broader and thicker as far as its middle part, but which then be- comes thinner, to terminate between two aponeurotic laminae unitmg into a single one, attached to the middle part of the mtersticc of the linea aspera, over a space of about three inches, be- tween the vastus internus and adductor magnus, with which it is 3