OllGANS or ClUCULATION. 03h OF THE HEART.* GENEllAL CONFORMATION. 2244. The Heart (Cor), the centre of the circulation, is a hol- low muscular organ of an irregular conical or pyramidal form, in- clined forwards, downwards, outwards and from riglit to left, flat posteriorly and infc-riorly, convex anteriorly and superiorly, and lodged in the pericardium. We have already pointed out its gene- ral relations in describing the latter organ. Its volume varies much in different individuals. Its mass, com- pared with that of the body, is very small; but, in general it is so much the greater the younger the subject is. Although it is re- tained by the pericardium, the mediastinum and large vessels, its situation changes every moment during life, because it follows the motions of the diaphragm, or because its weight drags it in dilferent directions, according to the position that is assumed. 2245. Its anterior surface, which is turned a little upwards, is convex, and presents, in its middle, a groove which traverses it obliquely from above downwards, and from left to right, and in which are lodged the anterior coronary artery and vein, in the midst of a considerable quantity of adipose tissue. The portion of this surface which is situated to the right of the groove, is much broader than that to the left. 2246. Its posterior surface is directed downwards, and is nearly horizontal. It is flat, and rests upon the ajioneurotic centre of the diaphragm, from which it is separated only by the serous mem- brane of the pericardium. It is traversed nearly vertically by a groove which receives the posterior coronary artery and vein, and which joins the preceding at the apex of the heart. The portion of the posterior surface of the heart which is to the left of the groove is much broader than that which occupies its right side. 2247. The right margin of the heart is at the same time mferior. It is thin and sharp, longer than the left, and resting upon the diaphragm. The left margin is directed backwards and upwards ; it is obtuse, rounded, very thick, and coasted by the posterior co- ronary artery. 2248. The base of the heart, which is situated above, behind, and to the right, slightly inclined from above downwards, and from left to right, is separated from the vertebral column by the aorta and oesophagus, and is connected with the pericardium through the medium of arteries which issue from, and of veins which go to, it. There is observed upon it an oblique groove, which indicates the junction of the auricles and ventricles. The summit, which looks forwards, downwards, and to the left, is lodged in a notch of the • Kn«, Kaqo'm Ol' the (iieclis.