OF THE OLFACTORY NERVES. 4.51 er, which descends to a greater or less distance in the nasal fossae, iho accompany them. 1619. The moment they are enveloped by the dura mater, the n anches of the olfiictory nerve become thicker, and harden to such I degree as no longer to resemble what they were at first. 1620. The ecctemal branches are prolonged into the canals it)f the turbinated bones (355, 357) ? they divide and subdivide, anastomosing with each other, without leaving these canals, which bhemselves anastomose. When they have emerged from them, hheir anastomoses become still more frequent, and they form a true blexus which may be distinctly perceived by dissecting under wa- er. On the upper turbinated bone there are observed several, I vhich curve backwards, so that their convexity is turned towards hhe sinus of the sphenoid bone. Those of the anterior part, which inre more numerous, are nearly vertical. The middle ones are the congest of all; they curve backwards upon the ethmoidal turbi- laated bone, and there ramify much, but without passing to the i^oncave surface, the membrane of the ethmoid cell, that of the iiinuses, or the inferior turbinated bone. 1621. The internal branches, already divided before leaving hhe cribriform plate, follow the septum, on which they divide anew nnto a great number of filaments between the two layers of the pi- uuitary membrane. Their number is at first from twelve to four- teen, each of them subdivides to such a degree as to appear peni- i:ilUform, and to be the origin of a very compound bundle. Seve- a-al of these filaments, joined together, form whitish bands of vari- luus length, one or two of which reach nearly as far as the bottom hf the septum. Anteriorly, they do not extend beyond its middle; loosteriorly, they are much shorter still, and curved back upon the convexity of the sphenoidal sinuses. 1622. The middle branches, on arriving in the nasal fossae, lilmost immediately lose themselves in the portion of the membrane flffhich lines their vault. 1623. There is much diversity of opinion about the manner in 'Which these branches terminate. Many anatomists have thought hthat they formed the vUlosities or papilla of the pituitary mem- rbrane. The most careful dissections, aided by various reagents, have not afforded me any information on this subject. Scarpa has It been equally baffled with the microscope. He merely saw them e forming a kind of proper membrane, in which, according to Blu- I menbach's remark, they seem in a manner to be dissolved. ! The trunk of the olfactory nerves receives arteries i "which arise from the anterior cerebral arteries, and are expand- < ed in the pia mater covering its lower surface. They are very i numerous, and follow the nervous filaments as far as the nose, i where they sometimes appear through the pituitary membrane. ^^mall veins are also observed around their trunk, as well as some )| lymphatics.