THE THORAX. 83 the edge*? of the sternum. The first is evidently continuous with that bone; the six following are articuLitcd to it by contiguous diarthrosis. In the three first false ribs, this extremity is united to the cartilage which immediately precedes it. In the last two, it is isolated, pointed and tliin, and is lost in the intermuscular cellular tissue. The upper part of the sternal extremity of the cartilage of the first rib gives attachment to the lower portion of the fibro-cartUa- ginous ligament of the sterno-clavicular articulation. 96. These cartilages seem at first sight to be homogeneous. They are white, very compact, somewhat flexible, and highly elas- tic. They dissolve with difficulty into gelatin. They have a great tendency to become ossified; and when this ossification, which is announced by the opaque tint which their perichondrium assumes, takes place, they present the same organization as the ribs them- selves, only their substance is much more compact than that of the other bones of the skeleton. The cartilages of the asternal ribs ossify more slowly and less completely than the others. 97- By maceration during several months, they divide into oval laminfB or plates, separated by circular or spiral lines, and con- nected by a few oblique fibres which they send off to each other. These laminse subdivide into radiated fibrils, which are themselves ultimately separated into small fasciculi, which at length dissolve into mucus. They present neither cavities, canals, areola^, fibres, nor laminae, nothing in short indicative of an organic texture. They also ap- pear to be destitute of nerves and vessels. 98. They are everywhere, excepting at their two extremities, enveloped by a somewhat vascular fibrous membrane or perichon- drium, which is continuous with the periosteum of the ribs and sternum. OF THE THORAX IN GENERAL. 99. Ge7ieral Form. The figure of this part of the skeleton is that of a truncated cone, somewhat flattened before and behind, and havmg its base below.* This figure is very different from that which the thorax presents when covered with its soft parts and connected with the shoulders, the upper part having then the appearance of being the broadest. In general, the pectoral cavity is symmetrical, or, in other words, perfectly similar on both sides. 100. Outer Sicrface of the Thoraw. Anteriorly it is contracted, more or less flat or prominent in different individuals, and general- ly better developed in women. It is somewhat oblique from above to p5:ct"ia theSdJe"*^^ '° contract this part of the body, and to cause the thorax