AORTIC INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. 097 Sometimes it is the internal mammary artery that furnishes it. At its commencement, it throws some twigs over the oesophagus. It then advances in a tortuous manner along the posterior part of the bronchus of its side, and sends some shght ramifications over the pleura, pericardium, and bronchial lymphatic ganglia. 2493. The left bronchial artery arises from the aorta, at the same level as the right, gives small twigs to the same parts, pro- ceeds behind the left bronchus, and arrives at the corresponding lung. 2494. Frequently the two bronchial arteries come from the com- mon trunk. Sometimes there are four of them, two for the right lung and two for the left. They present a multitude of variations ; but in all cases when they have arrived at the entrance of the bronchi into the lungs, the right commonly separates into five twigs, and the left into four. These twigs plunge into the paren- chyma of the organ, along with those of the bronchi, and sub- divide precisely like them, in such a manner, however, that each bronchial twig is accompanied by two or three very flexuous arterial twigs, frequently anastomosing together. There results a very fine net-work, which is especially distributed to the bronchi, al- though some ramifications also go to the parenchyma of the lung, and the walls of the pulmonary arteries and veins. The bronchial arteries communicate with the other vessels which enter into the composition of the lungs. 2495. Of the (Esophageal Arteries. Their number varies from two to five or six, and their size equals that of the bronchial. They arise from the fore part of the aorta, and give off at first some twigs to the pleurae, to the walls of the aorta and thoracic duct, and to the cellular tissue of the posterior mediastinum. Almost im- mediately after their commencement, they bend to the right and downwards, and ramify in the substance of the walls of the oeso- phagus. The lowest anastomoses with branches of the coronary artery of the stomach. 2496. Of the Posterior Mediastinal Arteries. They are ex- tremely numerous and very slender. They come from the fore part of the aorta, and from the oesophageal and intercostal arteries, and are distributed to the cellular tissue of the posterior mediasti- num and to the walls of the aorta: some of them anastomose by an arch with the thymic twigs of the internal mammary artery. Branches v/hich the Thoracic Aorta gives oflP laterally. OF THE AORTIC INTEECOSTAL AllTERIES. 2497- Tlicir number is commonly nine, but sometimes eight or ten on each side, according to that of the intercostal spaces to whicli the superior intercostal artery gives twigs (2417). They arise from the lateral and posterior part of the aorta at a slightly