OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA. 759 vessels subdivide to infinity in its substance or at its surface, with- out our being able to say precisely in what manner, and there are seen issuing from the opposite side, other lymphatic vessels, termed effiirentia, to distinguish them from the first, which arc designated by the name of inferentia or afferentia. There result numerous subdivisions of both kmds of vessels around the gang- lion, forming a true circular plexus, which embraces it on all sides. The lymphatic ganglia vary in diameter from the twentieth part of an inch to a whole inch. Their colour is in general reddish, sometimes, however, gray or blackish. Those which are situated at the exterior, have a more solid and denser tissue than those which are met with in the splanchnic cavities. They are all enve- loped by a compact membrane, glistening externally, and furnished with some blood-vessels. They receive numerous small arteries, from which issue cor- responding veins; and these vessels throw ramifications upon the walls of the neighbouring lymphatic vessels themselves. The lymphatic ganglia appear chiefly formed by an inextricable interlacement of these lymphatic vessels. 2769. All the absorbent vessels of the body discharge them- selves, by some trunks, into the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Two of these trunks are much larger than the others, and are designated by the names of Thoracic Duct, and Great Right Lymphatic Vein. The former receives the lymphatics of the ab- domen, the inferior extremities, the left side of the thorax, the left superior extremity, and the corresponding side of the head and neck. The other receives those of the right arm, and of the right side of the head, neck, and thorax. 2770- With reference to their structure, the lymphatic vessels appear formed of a cellular external membrane, and an internal membrane similar to that of the veins. The latter by being folded upon itself, produces at intervals valves which are generally dis- posed in pairs. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA IN PARTICULAR. OF THE LYMPHATIC GAKGLIA OF THE IJfFEBIOR EXTREMITIES. 2771- Anterior Tibial Ganglion. It is the only one that occurs along the leg. It is placed between the tibia and fibula, on the lower extremity of the interosseous ligament. 2772. Popliteal Ganglia. They are of small size, and si- tuated in the ham, to the number of three or four. They are concealed by the aponeurosis, and surround the popliteal artery. 2773. Inguinal Ganglia. They occupy the anterior and su- perior part of the thigh near the groin, and are distinguished into superjitial and deep. The former are placed between the skin and " aponeurosis, and surround the internal saphena vein, near its ter-