560 ORGANS OF SENSATION. The vitreous body is composed of two distinct parts, tlie vitre- ous humour and the hyaloid membrane.* 1984. The Vitreous Humour mingles readily with water, and has the appearance of a solution of gum in that fluid. It is not coagulated by boihng, only it receives a slight opahne tint, an ef- fect which alcohol and concentrated acids also produce upon it. M. Nicolas found its specific gravity to be 1.0009- It is conse- quently a little denser than the aqueous humour; but appears, in a chemical point of view, to contain the same principles as it (1973). On leaving it exposed to the air, it equally putrefies. The quantity of this humour is proportional to the volume of the vitreous body. It is not less than 100 grains, and frequently exceeds that number. 1985. The Hyaloid Membrane, which is excessively thin and transparent, constitutes a mass of cellules, of a form and size very difficult to determine, in which the vitreous humour is contain- ed. They all communicate together, so that by making a single aperture in the hyaloid membrane, the whole humour may be gra- dually drained of!'. At the entrance of the optic nerve into the eye, the hyaloid membrane is reflected upon itself to form a canal, which passes di- rectly through the vitreous body from behind forwards. Near the point where the zonule of Zinn commences, and where the pulpy portion of the retina ceases, there is detached a delicate colourless membrane over the anterior concave surface of the vi- treous humour, which is merely contiguous to the posterior sur- face of the capsule of the lens, but not in any way connected with it. After the layer of the hyaloid membrane which invests the an- terior aspect of the vitreous humour has been detached, the re- maining structure passes on towards the equatorial margin of the lens ; but, previously to being fixed into its capsule, it divides into two distinct layers, which afterwards reunite, and thus enclose a space which is the canal of Petit. Thus united, they adliere firmly to the capsule of the lens, and seem to transmit another very delicate membrane, closely investing the posterior surface of that capsule, -f- The Canal of Petit is broader on the side next the temple than towards the nose, and its existence may be easily demonstrated by insufflation. The two laminje which form it are in perfect contact. The anterior presents stria? corresponding to the ciliary processes, ""TaXts, vitrum ; 'iihs.Jigwti. I The canal of Petit is commonly described as being formed by the hyaloid di- viding into two laminae, one of which passes before the capsule of the lens, while the other lines the concavity which receives it behind ; there is thus formed a spa<* i of the form of a three-sided circular prism cnnipletcd by the circumference of the^ lens, btit that this is not the true mechanism of the canal, may be inferred from the circumstance of the air blown into the canal not passing behind the lens, unless botli walls of the canal be punctured.