611' ORGANIZATION OF THE DUODIiNUM. I beino- covered by the upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon. The third is contained between the two laniinas of that fold. From this disposition, the duodenum forms a kind of semicircle which circumscribes the pancreas, and has its concavity to the left, and its convexity to the right. It only appears to be kept in a fixed position in its two inferior thirds. 2168. The relations of the duodenum to the neighbouring or- gans are the following; above, it corresponds to the liver and part of the neck of the gall-bladder ; heloio, it is limited by the inferior lamina of the transverse mesocolon; anteriorly, it is covered by the superior lamina of this fold inferiorly, and by the stomach and right extremity of the arch of the colon above; posteriorly, it is applied upon the anterior and right side of the vertebral column, the right kidney, the vena cava inferior, the aorta, and the right pillar of the diaphragm. By its whole inner gide, it embraces the pancreas, from which it is separated below by the superior mesen- teric vessels. Its outer side is immersed in the sub-peritoneal cel- lular tissue, between the right kidney and the ascending portion of the colon. ■ 2169- The inner surface of the duodenum is mucous like that of the stomach. There is seen upon it a multitude of circular folds, which differ extremely in their configuration, and are very close to each other; these are the valvulce conniventes. They are formed by the mucous membrane alone, and their existence is constant in all states of the duodenum. They project three or fovu" lines in its cavity ; some of them are oblique and cross each other, or run into those next them ; their length is not the same in all; they never form entire circles, only representing arches •which embrace the half, two-thirds, or three-fourths of the intes- tine, whose pointed extremities advance unequally beyond each bther ; their breadth varies as much as their length. The use as- signed to them is that of retarding the progress of the alimentary substances for the purpose of favouring the absorption of the chyle. The reticular tissue which we pointed out at the inner surface of the stomach shows itself in the bottom of the grooves by which they are separated. • 2170. There is also observed in the interior of the duodenum, at the point of union of the second and third curvatures, a small tubercle, at the summit of which are seen the united or isolated ori- fices of the choledochus and pancreatic ducts. 2171. At its lower part the duodenum is continuous with the small intestine, without any very distinct line of demarcation beino- observed. ORGANIZATION OF THE DUODENUM. 172. From what we have just said, it has already been seen the duodenum is not, like the stomach, invested with a serous