MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 341 crural apertures, it consequently forms one of the layers to be cut through in the operations for inguinal and crural hernice. The outer surface of the external obUquc is frequently covered at the back part by the latisshnus dorsi; at other times, there exists be- tween these two muscles a triangular space in which the obliquua internus appears a little. Its inner surface covers the anterior part of the last seven or eight ribs and their cartilages, the corres- ponding intercostal muscles, and the obliquus internus. 1255. This muscle compresses the abdomen, depresses and car- ries backwards the ribs, acts in strong expiration, and makes the thorax perform a rotatory motion which turns it to the opposite side. It draws up the trunk, when it has been bent backwards, or maintains it in its natural erectness. When the two muscles act together, they bend the thorax directly. If they take their fixed point in the thorax, as when one is lying on his back, they raise the pelvis and inferior extremities. 1256. To dissect this muscle and the abdominal aponeurosis, first stretch them by putting a large block under the loins of the subject, then make the following incisions through the integuments, one along the linea alba from the ensiform cartilage down to the pubis, and another from the middle of this one, obliquely upwards towards the anterior and inferior part of the osseous portion of the first false rib; there are thus two flaps formed, the superior of which is to be dissected upwards, and the lower downwards. If the dissector wishes to show the superficial fascia, he first raises the skin merely, and the fascia afterwards from the surface of the muscle and aponeurosis. OF THE OBLIQUUS INTERNUS ABDOMINIS, 1257. The ohliquus internus is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, like the externus, beneath which it is extended; It is attached to the upper and posterior part of the crural arch to near the inguinal ring, to the three anterior fourths of the in- terstice of the iliac crest, between the obliquus externus and trans- versus muscles, and to a thin and pretty broad aponeurosis, with fibres running obliquely outwards and upwards, situated behind the inferior bundle of the sacro-spinalis muscle, and before the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi, from which it cannot be separat- ed, continuous also above with that of the serratus posticus infe- rior, and attached to the last spinous processes of the loins, to the sacrum, and to the most remote part of the iliac crest. The fleshy nbres which succeed this aponeurosis are not very numerous; tney ascend almost vertically, and terminate by very short aponeu- ^°w \ ? ^^^^ cartilage of the last rib. Those wftich have their origin from the crest of the ileum, pass obliquely ypwards and forwards, and their obliquity, as well as length, increases the more anteriorly they are examined, so that when close