569 OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. bone (182), and placed one above die other. The superior canal •is rounded, lined with a very delicate periosteum, and filled by ,;the internal muscle of the malleus. It presents the aperture of . an extremely narrow canal which ascends in the groove placed be- fore the hiatus Fallopii, and which gives passage to a filament of lithe superficial petrous nerve, which goes to meet on the promon- ;.tory another filament of the same nerve of which we shall pre- -sently speak. The inferior forms the bony portion of the Eusta- . chian tube. Under the extremity of the processus cochleariformis j there opens a narrow and pretty long canal, which obliquely tra- verses the substance of the bone, and, on the one hand, goes to :gain the same groove of which we have just spoken, while, on : the other, it degenerates into a groove which passes over the cir- i curaference of the fenestra ovalis, the promontory and the ante- rrior edge of the fenestra rotunda in succession, to be finally con- vverted into a canal which descends in the groove by which the ccarotid canal is separated from the sinus of the jugular vein, and tterminates in a small fossa. This canal is traversed by a filament oof the superficial petrous nerve, which ascends to anastomose on tthe promontory with a filament of the superior cervical ganglion, tto go along with it, united into one, and accompanied by a small aartery, to throw itself into the terminating fossa, and be confound- ted with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, after throwing some fila- rments into the membrana tympani, and into the membrane of the tfenestra ovalis. 2013. Of the Eustachian Tube {Tuba Eustachiana.) This I name is given to a canal partly osseous, partly cartilaginous and membraneous, which extends from the cavity of the tympanum to Lthe upper part of the pharynx. Inclined obliquely forwards, in- ' wards and downwards, it is about two inches in length, and has I consequently a greater extent than the auditory canal. Its bony : portion, which is from eight to nine lines in length, is situated above the carotid canal, on the inside of the glenoid fissure, and of the spine of the sphenoid bone, commences in the tympanum by a pretty wide orifice, and is narrow and rounded in its middle l;; part. Its cartilaginous portion increases progressively in diame- ter, and is compressed so as to present an elliptical section. It j terminates near the inner wing of the pterygoid process, behind |; the posterior aperture of the corresponding nasal fossa, by a kind of wide, free, bulging pavilion, of which the edges are applied up- on each other so as to form only a fissure of no great width. This I last portion of the Eustachian tube, which is placed under the base of the cranium, is surrounded by the peristaphyline muscles, and hy cellular tissue. At its internal orifice, it is embraced by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. M.2014. The Cartilage of this canal, placed internally, flattened ; m the greater part of its extent, irregularly quadrilateral, curved • upon itself from beneath upwards and from within outwards, forms J at first its whole inner wall, and afterwards constitutes the upper