206 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOST. external, is a sort of fibrous band, extended between the two tu- berosities of this bone, immediately behind the olecranal cavity. This ligament is covered by the tendon of the triceps extensor, and by the anconeus, and is applied over the synovial membrane and a mass of cellular tissue, which occupies the olecranal fossa at its upper part. 665. Synovial Meynhrane. (Memhrana cubiti capsnlaris). It is common to the humero-cubital articulation, and that of the two bones of the fore-arm at their upper part. Applied behind the anterior ligament of the articulation, from which it is se- parated by a great quantity of cellular tissue, this membrane de- scends towards the neck of the radius, around which it forms a sort of cul-de-sac, directing itself from the inner surface of its annular ligament; it then ascends into the cavity of the head of the radius, passing between the inner side of its circumference and the small- er sigmoid cavity of the ulna; it is then continued into the larger sigmoid cavity, and from thence proceeds to the internal surface of the tendon of the triceps extensor, of the lateral liga- ments, and of the posterior ligament, to arrive at the olecranal cavity, whence it proceeds to the chfferent articular surfaces of the inferior extremity of the humerus, which it covers, and then ar- rives at the coronoid cavity, whence it finally proceeds to the point from which we have imagined it to set out. Its external surface. is in connexion with the brachialis internus, anteriorly ; with the ulnar nerve, and the triceps and anconeus, posteriorly; with the internal lateral ligament and the common tendon of the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, internally ; and with the external lateral ligament, and the common tendon of the posterior muscles of the fore-arm, externally. This membrane is raised up by small adipose masses, opposite the depressions which surmount the pulley and condyle of the hu- merus, as well as at the summit of the olecranon, and around the sigmoid cavities of the ulna. ARTICULATIONS OF THE ULNA WITH THE RADIUS. 666. Collectively, these articulations constitute a double lateral ginglymus, and are formed, above and below, by an immediate contact of the two bones of the fore-arm, which are separated in the middle, (485), and connected solely by a fibrous membrane pass- ing from the one to the other. UPPER RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. 667. In this articulation, it is the inner side of the circumfer- ence of the head of the radius that is received into the small sig- moid cavity of the ulna, (458.) These surfaces are invested with