146 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. Surface presents at its upper part an irregular depression, named the Digital Cavity, which gives attachment to the tendons of the pyriformis, superior and inferior gemelli, obturator internus, and obturator externus muscles. The Anterior Edge of the great trochanter is not very prominent, but is very broad and rough ; it gives insertion to the tendon of the glutgeus minimus. Its Poste- rior Edge is rounded and more distinct, but narrower, and receives the tendon of the quadratiis femoris. Its summit, which is short, thick, and very rough, gives attachment to the glutfeus medius. 496. The Small Trochanter,* {Trochanter Minor), is situated beneath and behind the base of the neck of the femur, and much lower than the great troclianter; its form is pyramidal, and its direction obliquely inwards and backwards. Its summit gives at- tachment to the united tendon of the psoas magnus and iliacus in- ternus. From its base, which is triangular, there proceed three prominent lines ; two superior, of which the one ascends obliquely outwards to the great trochanter, while the other proceeds obliquely inwards, to be continued into the lower part of the neck ; and one inferior, which directs itself toward the linea aspera, and forms the inner branch of its superior bifurcation. 497- The Lower or Tibial Eootremify, which is larger than the upper, is a little flattened from before backwards, and is thinner in its middle part than on the sides, which are formed of two consider- able eminences, known by the name of Condyles {condyli ossis fe- moris). These condyles articulate with the tibia, and are distin- guished into internal and external. The Internal Condyle is nar- rower, less prominent anteriorly, more oblique, more prolonged backwards than the other, and also descends lower when the femur is placed in a vertical direction, but remains on the same level with it when the bone is restored to its natural obliquity. These two con- dyles present a greater convexity behind than before. They are separated posteriorly by a large notch, {fovea intercondyloidea pos- terior), very uneven in its bottom, which is prolonged between them, and which is destitvite of articidar cartilage, and lodges the crucial ligaments of the knee-joint. Anteriorly their surfaces seem to be con- tinued into each other, and form a sort of pulley { fovea intercondy- loidea anterior), which is convex from above downwards, concave transversely, more prominent and higher externally than internally, and formed especially at the expense of the outer condyle, of which it occupies all the fore part; it is articulated with the patella. The inner condyle presents internally an uneven projecting eminence, - -namedtheInternal Tuberosity, (tuberculumcondyli interni),vYvich. gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and to the tendon of the adductor magnus. Externally, it gives insertion to the fibres of the posterior crucial ligament, by an uneven and rough surface. The outer condyle presents externally the Ex- ternal Tuberosity, {tuberculum condyli externi), which is less pro- * T|j«x'«*'''? l^'"-^os of the Greeks.