.AlUSCLES OF THE INl'KRlOlt EXTREMITIES. 3^5 OK THK SEMI-TKNDINOSUS. lo87- This muscle is very long, slender, tendinous, and round- rd below ; thin, fleshy, flattened, and broader above. It is extend- ed obliquely at the back part of the thigh, and arises behind the semi-membranosus, from the tuberosity of the ischium, by a mem- braneous tendon, which, for the extent of about three inches, is L'ommon to it and the long portion of the biceps. The fleshy fibres ;rise from the anterior surface of this tendon, and descend in a converging manner a little obliquely inwards; the bundle which they form, contracting and becoming thicker; when it has arrived at the middle part of the tliigh, after being generally traversed by an aponeurotic intersection, it changes into a tendon, at first con- cealed among the fleshy fibres, then appearing at the inner side, and at length becoming free, slender, and round, which descends behind the inner side of the knee joint, between the internal head of the gastrocnemius and semi-membranosus, turns forward upon the tibia, becomes broader, and is united to the posterior edge of the tendon of the gracilis, as well as with the inner surface of that of the sartorius (1332), to terminate with them upon the tibia. J 388. Its posterior surface is immediately covered by the fascia lata, and a little at its upper part by the glutaeus maximus. The anterior is apphed upon the semi-membranosus and adductor mag- nus. 1389- A bursa mucosa occurs between its upper part and the biceps and semi-membranosus, and another .at its lower part between the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and its tendon united with those of the sartorius and gracilis. 1390. It bends the leg, and turns it inwards by rotation. It also bends the thigh upon the leg. In standing it keeps the pelvis erect, and sometimes even contributes to draw it backwards. OF THE SEMl-MKMBllANOSUS. 1391. Placed beneath the preceding muscle, flat, thin, narrow, and aponeurotic in its upper third, broader, thicker, quadrilateral, and fleshy in the rest of its extent, excepting at the very lowest part, where it is rounded, this muscle arises from the tuber ischii, behind the quadratus and before the semi tendinosus and biceps, by a flat tendon, whose outer edge is much thicker than the inner, which descends very low upon the outer and back part of the fleshy ^ody, to be afterwards concealed in its substance. The fleshy nbres are short and parallel, and directed oWiquely inwards; they form a pretty long bundle, thin at its extremities, and thick in the middle, and terminate successively in a tendon which oc- cupies their inner edge. This tendon, which is isolated behind the knee joint, thick and round, is contiguous anteriorly with that