ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 751. sentenc, opposite the vertebral column. In its progress, it receives the veins which correspond to the vasa hreviora (2528), in which M. Bauer discovered true valves which I also once observed, the Ti(jht and left Gastro-epiploic veins, the Duudenal and Pancrea- tic Veins, the Coronary Vein of the Stomach, and the Small Me- sara'ic or Mesenteric Vein. The last-mentioned vein receives the blood of the left part of the arch of the colon, and of the descending colon and rectum. Its roots correspond to the immediate branches of the inferior me- senteric artery, of which it even accompanies the trunk to above the sigmoid flexure of the colon. It then leaves it, ascends verti- cally behind the peritoneum of the left lumbar region, passes be- tween the transverse mesocolon and tlie vertebral column, enters beneath the pancreas, and joins the splenic vein nearly at a right angle. 2756. Superior Mesenteric Vein (vena mesaraica magna). Its disposition is almost precisely the same as that of the artery of the same name (2529), to the right and a little anteriorly of which It is placed. It is formed by all the veins of the small intestine, and by three veins corresponding to the three right coUc arteries. Its roots constitute, in the substance of the mesentery, a net-work similar to that of the ramifications of the artery. On arriving at the attached edge of the transverse mesocolon, its trunk enters be- neath the pancreas, and unites with the splenic vein at an obtuse angle, after receiving several duodenal and pancreatic veins. or THE TRUNK OF THE VENA PORT^ AND ITS DIVISIONS. 2757. The trunk of the vena portas results from the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins : but its diameter is much smaller than the sum of their diameters. It as- cends obKquely to the right and backwards, and has about four inches of extent from the vertebral column, where it commences, to the groove of the liver, where it terminates. Lying at first un- der the small extremity of the pancreas and behind the second por- tion of the duodenum, the vena portag, united to the biliary vessels, and covered by the hepatic artery, cystic, and hepatic ducts, sur- rounded by a great number of nervous filaments and lymphatic vessels, arrives near the right extremity of the transverse groove of the liver, and bifurcates. Its two branches separate nearly at a right angle, and seem to form under the liver a horizontal canal which some anatomists have called the Sinus of the Vena Portae. They both accompany the two divisions of the hepatic artery. The right, which is not so long as the left, but larger, introduces itself into the great lobe of the liver, and ramifies in its interior. The left, which is smaller and longer, proceeds horizontally as far as the ligament of the umbilical vein, and divides in the left lobe. It throws a principal branch into the lobulus Spigelii.