MUSCLES or THE BACK. OF THE RHOMHOIDKUS. 810. The Rhornhoideus (Musculi Rhomhoiclei major et minor), is a broad flat muscle, of nearly square form, occupying the upper part of the back and lower part of the neck. It is divided by a cellular line into two portions, which have been considered as dis- tinct muscles; of these, the upper is smaller, the lower larger. It arises by aponeurotic fibres, longer below than above, from the lower part of the ligaraentura nuchas, the spinous process of the last vertebra of the neck, those of the first four or five dorsal ver- tebrae, and from the corresponding interspinal ligaments. The fleshy fibres, which are all parallel, descend a little outwards, to the spinal edge of the scapula, where they are attached superiorly and inferiorly; but in the middle, they are inserted along a sort of aponeurotic arch, vertical and parallel to the edge of the scapu- la, with which it is only connected by its two extremities, being separated from it in the rest of its extent by cellular tissue tra- versed by vessels. 811. The posterior surface of the rhomboideus is in a great part covered by the trapezius; inferiorly it is covered by the latissimus dorsi, and between these two muscles, is in contact with the skin. The anterior surface covers the serratus posticus su- perior, the splenius, sacro-spinalis, and part of the intercostales externi; it is also applied over some of the ribs. Its ujjper edge is covered, in nearly its whole extent, by the levator anguli sca- pulas. 812. The principal action of the rhomboideus is to bring the scapula toward the trunk; it also lowers the tip of the shoulder, . by bringing the lower angle of the scapula toward the vertebral column. 813. This muscle is exposed by making an incision through the trapezius, from about the middle of the base of the scapula, obliquely upwards to the spinous process of the second dorsal vertebra. The trapezius is to be removed by dissecting in the direction of the fibres of the rhomboideus, which should be stretched by drawing the shoulder downwards and forwards. OF THE LEVATOR ANGULISCAPULA. (Angularis Scapula.) 814.. This long and thick muscle is situated at the lateral and posterior part of the neck. It is attached to the posterior tuber- cles ot the transverse processes of the fitst three, four or five cer- vical vertebra;, by as many small tendons, frequently united with