OHGANS OF SENSATION. In some cases, the single twig bifurcates. They all, however, pro ceed upwards and outwards, and, at the end of a short course anastomose with each of the anterior branches of the dorsal nerve.' when they issue from the intervertebral holes. When several fila-> ments proceed from j^the same ganglion, it is not rare to see ther unite when the anastomosis takes place. The smaller filament however lose themselves in the intercostal muscles. OF THE INTJCRNAL FILAMENTS. 1906. Their number is considerable, and their distribution ex- tremely variable. Some arise from all the ganglia which terminate in the interior of the chest; others, on the contrary, come only from the inferior ganglia and constitute the splanchnic nerves. The former, which are very short and slender, become interlaced with each other at their very commencement, and go to the verte- bral column. There, some of them are dispersed in the cellular tissue, while others join the pulmonary plexus of the pneumo-gas- tric. One of these filaments, which is longer and thicker than the others, comes from the tenth ganglion separately from the small splanchnic nerve, descends forwards, and goes to the fore part of the aorta, whose course it follows subdividing to infinity, and anas- tomosing with the corresponding filaments of the opposite side. This filament enters the abdomen and terminates in the cocliac plexus. OF THE SPLANCHNIC NERVES, 1907- These nerves are two in number, and distinguished in- to great and small. They are pretty regular in their occurrence and disposition. They arise from the last six thoracic ganglia, each of which furnishes internally a long white twig, the successive union of which produces two cyhndrical cords, which pass through the diaphragm into the abdomen. OF THE GllEAT SPLANCHNIC NERVE. {Nermis splanchnicus major). 1908. Its roots, to the number of four or five, come from the inner part of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and sometimes tenth thoracic ganglia. They all descend very obliquely inwards on the sides of the vertebral column and below the pleura, and unite into a single white and cylindrical trunk, opposite the eleventh .dorsal vertebra. This trunk descends in the same direction, enters into the abd-omcn through a separation of the muscular fibres of