OIIGANS OF SENSATION. 514 the tuber iscliii. It then descends a little obliquely outwards, along the posterior part of the thigh as far as the ham, where it divides into two principal trunks, of which one is the external, the other the internal popliteal nerve, and which are sometimes dis- tinct from the upper part of the limb. 1840. By its anterior side, the sciatic nerve is successively ap- plied, from above downwards, upon the two gemelli muscles, the tendon of the obturator internus, and the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus. Its posterior side is covered above by the glu- taeus maximus, inferiorly by the long portion of the biceps flexor, and a little by the semitendinosus. Lastly, altogether inferiorly, it is placed in the ham in the midst of fat, under the crural apo- neurosis and skin, and between the biceps and semi-membranosus muscles (1384, 1391). 1841. On emerging from the pelvis, the sciatic nerve gives off some twigs to the gemelli, obturator internus and quadratus mus- cles. The glutaeus maximus also generally receives several, unless when the twigs of the inferior glutaeal nerve (1834) are very large, in which case, the sciatic nerve sends none to it. Two or three twigs go to the long portion of the biceps muscle. One of them accompanies it as far as the knee, and sometimes becomes cutane- ous. Another is destined for the short portion of the same muscle. The last twigs are expanded in the semi-tendinosus, semi-membra- nosus, and adductor magnus muscles. Among these twigs, there are many which extend as far as the skin, in which they terminate, whether on the thigh or on the leg. OF THE EXTEllNAL POPLITEAL OH PERONEAL NERVE. (Nervus Per one us). 1842. The Peroneal Nerve, which is smaller than the tibial, descends obliquely outwards along the inferior extremity of the bi- ceps muscle, behind the outer condyle of the femur and the ten- don of the corresponding head of the gastrocnemius ; then, bend- ing a little forwards and inwards, passes between the upper part of the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle, and there divides into two branches, the musculo-cutaneous, and the anterior tibial. 1843. At its origin, and sometimes even a little before, this nerve gives off a long and slender filament, which glides between the femur and the inferior extremity of the biceps, gives some ra- mifications to the latter muscle, and then expands upon the fore and outer part of the knee joint, and upper articulation of the tibia.7 and fibula. Before arriving at the condyles of the femur, it gives i off another twig of remarkable size, (peroneo-cutaneons), which r sends a great number of filaments to the outer head of the gastroc- | nemius, over which it descends, keeps along the outer and back part of the leg, beneath the aponeurosis, and separates into many