OF THE CEUEBliAL PllOTUBEIlANCE. 41 "5 I posteriorly into two by a pretty large eminence, (Processus vermi- formis inferior.) It is surrounded on both sides by a band of ■ white substance. It is a true lamellated lobule, composed of a CTrcat number of parallel transverse lamina, unequal in size and i height. Some of them are prolongations of the slips which termi- ! nate the lateral lobules; others arise in the intervals of the grooves, : and are more or less long; at the middle, where this lobule is 1 broader and higher, its laminae are triangular ; posteriorly, it pre- • sents a rather flat tubercle; anteriorly, it is terminated by a nar- 1 row, rounded prolongation, from seven to eight lines in length, and t four or five in breadth, which has by some been improperly com- ] pared to the uvula, and is generally named the Mammillary Emi- yfience of the inferior vermiforrn process. On ea"ch side, the inferior part of the cerebellum presents a very I convex rounded surface, raised in the middle, on which there are I distinguished four lobules which describe concentric arches, and ; are turned inwards to end at the middle depression. The first of 1 them is less long, but broader and thicker than the others ; it is I composed of a great number of concentric laminae differing in their I extent and direction ; those which occupy the edges of the median ; fossa are short, and form a sort of rounded protuberance. At the I outer side of this first lobule, and a little before it, is a small foliat- I ed or lamellated tuft, (flocculus seu lobus nervi pneumogastrici,) I of an oblong form, rounded, rather low, and distinguished by the ! small size of its laminae and by a very distinct groove. The other three lateral inferior lobules are less compound than I the first, and become successively longer. Their laminae, which are ! less oblique, do not preserve the same thickness in their whole ex- I tent, and are seen to blend with each other in different places, the I last terminates by a slip in the median depression. 1.510. Circumference of the Cerebellum. Anteriorly and pos- I teriorly, the curvature of this circumference is interrupted by two I notches or broad depressions, the p)Osterior of which corresponds : to. the internal occipital crest, and receives the falx cerebelli; while ■ the anterior, which is broader and of a semilunar form, embraces a part of the cerebral protuberance and the commencement of the ■ spinal marrow. This circumference is moreover traversed by a ' large horizontal groove, pretty deep in the whole extent, and very ' wide before. Altogether posteriorly, on each side of the posterior I notch, the circumference of the cerebellum presents a distinct lo- bule, resembling a cuneiform segment of an ovoid, and composed of a great quantity of laminae and lamellae. It is terminated by a II process which loses itself near the inferior median lobule. OF THE CEREBKAL PBOTUBERAKCE, CONSIDEKED AS TO ITS EXTERIOR. IGll. This is the least voluminous portion of the brain, of which