762 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE HEAD AKD NECK. 2787. Ganglia of the Skull. No lymphatic ganglia are met with in the interior of the skull. The outside of that cavity pre- sents only two or three small ones behind the ear, upon the outer Burface of the parotid gland. One or two are also observed behind the zygomatic arch. 2788. Gamjlia of the Face. These occur only in small number. A few are observed upon the buccinator muscle. The others pre- vail along the base of the jaw, and surround the anterior belly of the digastric muscles. 2789. Ganglia of the Neck. They are superf cinl and deep. The former are irregularly disposed beneath the platysma myoides, in the course of the external jugular vein and its branches. The oth ers (^glaHdulce concatenatce^ occur in the vicinity of the inter- nal jugular vein and common carotid artery. Their number is very great, but their size is small. They form a kind of chain, from the mastoid process to the sviperior orifice of the thorax, and are prolonged backwards between the pharynx and vertebral column. ' OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS IN PARTICULAR. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH TERMINATE IN THE THORACIC DUCT. OF THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2790. They arise from the toes by very delicate radicles, which at the base of each phalanx form a net-work, from whence pro- ceed twigs which cover the two surfaces of the foot. Those of the upper surface, form by their successive union, from sixteen to twenty branches, which almost all gain the inner edge of the leg, ■where they meet the internal saphena vein. Those of the inferior surface, collect towards the heel, and form two or three branches around the tendo Achillis. 2791- The first ascend along with the internal saphena vein upon the anterior and inner side of the leg. Some of them run upon its outer side, accompanying the external saphena vein ; but at different heights, and especially near the knee, bend forwards and inwards, and anastomose with those of the inner side. A very small number also bend in the same manner behind the knee ; and in general, all the lymphatics which arise upon the back of the foot, and along the anterior surface of the leg, occur collected at the inner part of the thigh, above the patella. 2792. Those which come from the sole of the foot, and from the