ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 34<8 with the pericardium, and corresponds to the mediastina. Its sides, which are lined by the pleura, support the base of the lungs. Anteriorly, it covers the triangularis sterni; on the sides, the inter- costales interni, and posteriorly, the aorta psoas magnus and qua- dratus lumborum. Its inferior or abdominal surface is concave in its wlwle ex- tent, and a little inchned forwards ; but its concavity is not regu- lar, being always greater to the right than to the left, which appears to arise from the presence of the liver ; in the middle it is nearly plain. Posteriorly, the kidneys, the supra-renal capsides, the pan- creas and the duodenum ; on the right side, the liver ; and on the left, the spleen and stomach are connected with it. In the rest of its extent, it is covered by the peritoneum, whence it re- sults that the muscle is placed between two serous membranes, but not furnished with a special envelope, as Bartholin has asserted. On these two surfaces there are vessels and nerves of consider- able size, which belong particularly to the diaphragm. The circumference of the diaphragm corresponds, anteriorly, to the ensiform cartilage, and the triangularis sterni; on the sides, to the ribs and internal intercostal muscles; posteriorly, to the vertebral column, the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. 1281. The diaphragm separates the thorax from the abdomen, and serves to support the viscera which these great cavities con- tain. But it also performs motions, which, by varying the dimen- sions of these cavities, have the greatest influence upon many func- tions. When it contracts, the convexity which it forms in the tho- rax disappears ; its fibres, from being curved, become straight; the aponeuretic centre acquires more obliquity ; the thorax is thus enlarged, and the abdomen diminished; it is therefore in this case essentially a muscle of inspiration; and, in ordinary circumstances, it is even the only one that acts to produce inspu'ation. If its contraction is carried farther, it draws the ribs toward the vertebral column, which diminishes the transverse diameters of the thorax. When it relaxes, on the other hand, it resumes its former dimen- sions, ascends in the thorax, forms there the same arch, compresses the lungs, and thus contributes to expiration. Duruig contrac- tion, the lateral parts of the diaphragm descend much more than the middle part, which is retained by the pericardium and medias- tinum. During the same action, the oesophagus is compressed, because the aperture through which it passes is entirely fleshy; but this does not happen to the vena cava, vena azygos, aorta and thoracic duct, the circumference of their apertures being aponeurotic. The motions of the diaphragm also produce various remarkable phenomena, as sighing, yawning, coughing, sneexing, laughing, sobbing, and hiccup, which are all more or less connected with the motions of inspuration and expiration. It is also subservient to smell in the action of snuffing odoriferous effluvia, and contributes