600 ORGANS OP DIGESTION. the neck. Their nerves are supplied by the infra-orbitar, facial, buccal, and masseteric nerves. Some of them come also from the cervical plexus. OF THE PALATE. 2124. The Palate {Palatum seu Fornix Palati) is the upper wall of the mouth, limited anteriorly by the adhering edge of the upper lip, posteriorly by the base of the velum palati, and laterally by the cheeks. It represents a kind of parabolic arch, a little longer than broad, horizontal, but slightly hollowed, and perfectly fixed. A white line, slightly depressed, traverses the palate from before backwards, in the course of the median line of the body. At the anterior extremity of this line, between the two middle in- cisors of the upper jaw, is a small tubercle which corresponds to the inferior orilice of the anterior palatine canal (333). 2125. Bony Portion of the Palate. It is formed by the upper alveolar arch, the inferior surface of the palatine processes of the superior maxillary bones, and the horizonal portions of the palate - bones; and has already been fully described (332). 2126. Palatine Membrane and Gums. On the vault of the palate, the common mucous membrane is denser, thicker, and less red than in the other parts of the mouth. At its anterior part, it presents transverse rugosities, varying in number and extent, and at this place it is thicker than behind. In the rest of its extent, it is smooth and interspersed with numerous holes, which are the orifices of mucous follicles situated between it and the bony arch of the palate. These follicles become more numerous as we ap- proach the velum. In their intervals, very distinct prolongations connect the periosteum with the mucous membrane, so as to ren- der the latter perfectly motionless. It is between the two lamina? which result from this union that the nerves and vessels creep. The membrane of the palate is continuous anteriorly, and on the sides, with the gums, which are formed of a firm and compact reddish tissue, covering the two sides of each alveolar arch, and filling the intervals which remain between the teeth, the necks of which they closely surround. The gums are continued anteriorly into the internal membrane of the cheeks and lips. Their intimate nature is rather difficult to be made out. They are confounded with the periosteum, receive blood-vessels, and appear composed of two layers, a pulpy and a fibrous, covered by the mucous mem- brane. No follicles are discovered in their substance; but the mucous membrane which enters into their constitution, is pro- longed into the alveoli, and from the bottom of these cavities, sends into the cavity of each of the teeth a bulbous prolongation which exactly fills it, and which has been named the 'pulp or nudeus of the tooth (271). Bonn, Walther, and Lavagna first pointed out this fac which is now generally admitted.