.588 ORGANS OF SENSATION. guales and stylo-glossi muscles, and another plane lying above tlie latter, with transverse fibres, formed by the genio-glossi, and bu-V- rounded by the proper tissue of the tongue. 2077- At the centre of this fleshy tissue, and in the direction of the median line, there occurs a Jibro-cartilaginous lamina or sep- titm, of a whitish colovir, stronger behind than before, having its upper edge concealed in the substance of the organ, at a consider- able distance from the mucous membrane, and the lower free in' the interval of the genio-glossi muscles. This septum is continu- ed posteriorly as far as the body of the hyoid bone, and by its two lateral surfaces gives attachment to a great number of muscular fibres. 2078. Mucous Membrane. After leaving the posterior part of the lower alveolar arch, and covering the sublingual glands, the mucous membrane which lines the whole interior of the mouth goes to the under surface of the tongue, forming opposite the sym- physis of the jaw (249), a fold of greater or less extent, covering the origin of the genio-glossi muscles, which is named the FrcEnum Lingua'. It prolongs itself nearly to the point of the tongue, and allows the ranine veins to be seen on its sides. This fold is accom- panied on either side with two denticulated fringes, similar to many other membraneous fringes which occur in different parts of the body. The mucous membrane then extends on each side beneath the tongue, and ascends upon its edges to pass over its upper sur- face as far as the epiglottis, where it forms three new folds, of which we have already spoken (1487)- 2079. So long as it occupies the under surface of the tongue the mucous membrane presents nothing remarkable in its organiza- tion. It is very different, however, on the dorsal surface of the organ. There it presents a thin and very distinct epidermis, un- der which is a layer formed by the intertexture of thousands of ves- sels, which surround, like a net-work, the extremities of the nerves and the mucous follicles, and give the tongue the red colour peculiar to it. Below this vascular layer is the chorion of the membrane, remarkable for its thickness and its adhesion to the muscular body, with which it seems to be incorporated, and to which it affords a great many points of attachment. 2080. At the upper surface of the tongue, the mucous mem- brane appears moreover rendered rough and uneven by the exist- ence of a great number of eminences differing in their form and nature. These are the Papillce, and are distinguished into three kinds. 1. Lenticular PapillcB. Their number varies from nine to fif- teen. They are disposed, only at the base of the tongue, in two oblique lines in the form of the letter Y, and meeting under an angle at the foramen coecum (2072). They always project con- siderably, and are of a very irregular form, generally spherical or oval. They are nothing else than mucous follicles like those of the velum palati, lips, &c., and which open upon the tongue by