397 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. thyroidei muscles; on the sides it becomes broader, is a little co- vered by the thyroid cartilage, and presents above, a small rounded eminence, convex and polished at its summit, to be articulated witli the small horns of that cartilage; posteriorly, it becomes still broader, and presents a quadrilateral plane, at the middle of which a longitudinal prominence separates two depressions, into which the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted. Its inner surface is hned by the mucous membrane of the larynx. Its upper cir- cumference is obhquely cut in its two anterior thirds, where it gives attachment to the crico-thyroid membrane; its posterior third, which is more elevated, is horizontal, and presents two smooth con- vex surfaces, incUned backwards and outwards, which are articulat- ed with the base of the arytenoid cartilages; to the fore part of these surfaces the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles are attached. Its inferior circumference which is horizontal, and placed at the same level in its whole extent, is cimvex before, and a little notched at the sides, and is connected, by a membrane, to the first ring of the trachea. OF THE ARYTENOID CARTILAGES.* 1474. They are two in number, and are situated at the upper and back part of the larynx, above the cricoid cartilage, the level of which they surpass a little on the inner side. They are smaller than it, and have the form of a triangular pyramid, a little twisted upon itself from before backwards. Thevc posterior surface, which is concave, gives attachment to the arytenoideus muscle; the an- terior, which is a little concave below, and convex above, corre- sponds to part of the arytenoid gland, and gives attachment to the thyro-arytenoidei muscles, and the ligaments of the glottis; the inner, which is narrow, flat, and vertical, is invested by the mucous membrane of the larynx, and in contact with that of the opposite side. These three surfaces are separated by as many prominent and sharp edges, the anterior of which presents several inequalities. The base of these cartilages presents, posteriorly, a concave and, smooth articular surface, inclined downwards and inwards, and connected with that which the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage presents ; this surface is limited externally by a rounded tubercle, to which the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and crico-aryten- oideus posticus muscles are attached; anteriorly it presents a larger eminence, of a triangular form, sometimes isolated from the rest of the cartilage, which gives attachment to the hgament of the glottis. The summit of the arytenoid cartilage is very thin and sharp; the mucous membrane envelopes it, and it is generally surmounted by a small cartilaginous body, (Corniculurn laryngis • 'A^vruimiln;, of the form of a funnel.