68 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. than the other, and free like it, is concave, and belongs to the in- ferior meatus ol' tlie nasal fossa?. 227. The lower edge is free, spongy, rolled on itself from beneath upwards, and thicker at the middle than at the extremi- ties. The upper edge, which is articular and uneven, presents be- hind a sort of spinous crest, which unites with a similar part of the palate bone, and before, a small and very thin margin, furnish- ed with minute asperities, which are articulated to the crest on the base of the nasal process of the upper maxdlary bone; in tlie middle, it is surmounted by a small pyramidal eminence, (procensics lachrymalts), which ascends toward the lachrymal bone, and which completes with it the nasal canal, by some papyraceous laminae, (processus ethmoidales), which unite with the ethmoid bone, and by a kind of scale curved downwards in the form of a hook, (pro- cessus maxillaris), which partly contracts the orifice of the max- illary sinus in which it is engaged. I'he two edges of this bone unite so as to form two angles^ a posterior and an anterior. The former of these angles is the sharper and more elongated; both are joined to the ridges, which the corresponding superior maxillary and palate bones pre- sent. 228. Structure and Development. The inferior turbinated bone is in general thin. Its surface, which is covered with vermi- cular marks, porous and spongy, has been for this reason considered by most anatomists as consisting of cellular tissue; this opinion, however, I believe to be erroneous: for portions of cellules, such as these, which are frequently mere inequalities or small spines, which sometimes pass through the bone from one side to the other, and which are neither lined by a medullary membrane, nor moisten- ed by a fatty juice, cannot be likened to the diploe of the bones of the cranium, or to the areolaa of the short bones (25). It is developed by a single point of ossification, which makes its appearance at the fifth month. 229. Articulatio7is. The inferior turbinated bone is articulated to the upper maxillary, palate, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones, by the various points already mentioned. Frequently, even in chil- dren, it occurs united with the latter bone, so that in many sub- jects, the lower turbinated bone seems to constitute an appen- dage of the ethmoid, as Bertin has remarked. Sometimes, it is in- timately united to the aperture of the sinus ; but it is always slight- ly attached to the horizontal crests of the palate and maxillary bones. OF THE NASAT, BONES. 230. Form. The Nasal Bones (Ossa Nasi), are of small size, and occupy the interval existing between the two ascending pro- cesses of the maxillary bones; they are thick at the u])pcr part,.