PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 208 the ulna towards the radius, and which consequently have an op- posite direction to that of the other fibres. Lastly, this ligament, which is notched above, as we have said, is perforated at its lower part by a very distinct oval aperture, for the passage of the ante- rior interosseous vessels and nerve. 670. Round Ligament, (Chorda transt^ersalis Cubiti). This liga- ment seems destined as a substitute for the preceding in the upper part of the interosseous interval. It is a. round fibrous cord of very small size, situated on a plane anterior to that of the interosseous ligament, following an opposite direction, and separating superiorly the flexor sublimis digitorum from the supinator brevis. It is at- tached above to the anterior and superior part of the ulna, beneath the insertion of the brachialis internus ; whence it descends paral- lel to the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps muscle, and after- wards attaches itself to the radius, immedi?tely beneath the bicipi- tal tuberosity. It leaves between it and the radius a very distinct triangular space, filled with cellular tissue. Sometimes it is com- posed of two fasciculi; one of which passes behind the tendon of the biceps, and is inserted into the outside of the bicipital tube- rosity. LOWER RADIO-CUBITAL ARTICULATION. 671. This articulation is formed by the reception of the head of the ulna into a concave surface which the radius presents at its lower and inner part, (453). The two surfaces are invested by a very thin and smooth cartilage, and are merely surrounded by some irregular fibres, which strengthen the synovial membrane anteriorly and posteriorly. The principal means of union observed here is a fibro-cartUage. 672. Triangular Fibro-cartilage, {Cartilago intermedia trian- gularis ulnam inter et radium). This fibro-cartilage, which is placed transversely between the lower extremity of the radius and ulna, is thin, narrow and yellowish; it is denser and more cartila- ginous at its circumference than at the centre, thinner and broader externally than internally, and formed of fibres more apparent be- low than above. Its upper surface, which is concave and smooth, is contiguous to the lower part of the head of the ulna ; the loio- er, which is also concave and smooth, is in connexion with the cuneiform bone. Its anterior and posterior edges are connect- ed with the fibres of the radio-carpal articulation. Its base is in- serted into the prominent edge, which separates the carpal cavity of the lower extremity of the radius, from that which receives the ulna ; sometimes it is only connected with it by means of the sy- novial membranes. Lastly, its summit is attached to the depres- sion, which separates the styloid process of the ulna from the arti- cular surface of that bone. 673. Synovial Membrane, {Membrana capsularis sacciformis). Its looseness is very remarkable anteriorly and posteriorly, where