MUSCLES OF THE INKEUIOR EXTREMITIES. OK THE OBTURATOR liXTERNUS. 1380. Situated .at the upper and inner part of the thigh, and t)f tlie form of a flattened conoid, this muscle arises from the lamina of the OS inuominatum which limits the obturator hole anteriorly, and from the inner part of the anterior surface of its ligament. From thence, it descends outwards, becoming narrower, then as- cends behind the neck of the femur, where its fleshy fibres termin- ate upon a tendon, which comes from several slips that had existed in the substance of the muscle, contracts, becomes thicker, and is inserted into the cavity of the trochanter beneath the inferior ge- .mellus, after contracting strong adhesions with the capsular liga- .ment of the hip joint. 1381. Its anterior surface,, which is inclined downwards, is covered by the pectineus, the adductors, and quadratus. The pos- terior is applied upon the os innominatum, the obturator ligament, from which it is separated by cellular tissue externally, and upon the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. Its upper edge corresponds internally to the obturator nerve and vessels. The lower edge is placed, also internally, above the attachment of the adductor mag- nus. 1382. This muscle rotates the thigh outwards, and draws it to- wards the other. 1383. For the dissection of the muscles of the haunch, put the subject on its belly, and place a block under the pubes, so as to ;.bend the thigh on the pelvis; then make a longitudinal incision 'through the skin along the sacrum, and another from the middle of this one obliquely downwards to a little below the trochanter major, at which point turn the incision right downwards for the space of two inches. The skin, fat, and thin fascia covering the muscle being thus cut through, they are to be dissected upwards and downwards from the incision in the direction of the fibres of the muscle, which are stretched by rotating the foot inwards. By re- moving the upper flap entirely from the dorsum of the ileum the anterior part of the gluteus medius, which is covered by the fascia lata, will be exposed. The upper and anterior edge of the gluteus maximus is inti- mately connected with this fascia, great care is therefore necessary in raising it, which may be done, first, by separating this connex- ion, then dissecting it off' from the surface of the gluteus medius, detaching it at the same time fi-om its origins from the posterior part of the crest of the ileum, and from the sacrum. The muscle is now to be thrown down towards its insertion into the thigh, when the gluteus medius and the rotating muscles of the hip will come mto view. The fascia covering the anterior part of the gluteus medius be^- mg raised, this muscle will be wholly exposed; it may now be re,, moved to show the gluteus minimus. 4