OF THE FACIAL NEIIVE. 4C9 or eight twigs, which are diffused in a radiating manner over the temi)le and face, and distinguished, according to their position, into the following. 1683. Temporal Twigs. These are two or three in number. They are rather small, and direct themselves obliquely upwards and forwards toward the temple, crossing the direction of the zy- gomatic arch. They give at first some filaments to the parotid gland, which covers them at their origin. Above the zygomatic arch, they subdivide into a considerable number of filaments, which spread over the forehead and temple, as far as the summit of the head, between the integuments and the temporal aponeurosis. These filaments ramify in the anterior part of the external ear, in the prior auriculas, attolens auriculam, frontalis, temporalis and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, and in the integuments. They anastomose with the filaments of the superficial temporal (I67O), posterior auricular (I678), deep temporal (1662), and fron- tal (1651) nerves, the orbital twig of the superior maxillary nerve (1656), the lachrymal nerve (164<7), and those of the cervical plexus. There are also frequent communications established be- tween them and the following twigs, so that they truly present a very Complicated net-work beneath the skin of the temples. 1684. Malar Twigs. Two or three in number, they ascend for- wards towards the malar bone, where they spread out into a great number of filaments. The superior twig, united by an arch with the last of the temporal twigs, directs itself towards the inner angle of the eye, and terminates there by anastomosing with one of the filaments of the external nasal nerve (1654). Conjointly with the other two, it forms a very apparent plexus on the cheek, more su- perficial behind than before, which sends numerous filaments into the zygomatic muscles, the orbicularis palpebrarum, levator anguli oris and levator labii superioris, and into the skin of the lower eye- lid and upper part of the cheek. These filaments, besides their mutual communications, unite also with those of the lachrymal (164-7), infra-orbitar (1659), internal frontal (1651), and external nasal (1654) nerves, and accompany all the divisions of the facial vem, forming around it a more or less prolonged nervous net- work. 1685. Buccal Ttvigs. These are three or four in number. They emerge from beneath the parotid gland towards the middle •of the masseter muscle, communicate with the preceding twigs, and "With the cervico-facial branch, and follow a nearly horizontal di- rection. The upper gains the sides of the nose, and supplies the zygomatic, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, and leva- tor labii superioris alaeque nasi muscles. The middle twig is the largest of those of the temporo-facial branch; it frequently arises by a cornmon trunk with the upper, proceeds beneath Steno's duct, wJiose direction it follows, passes transversely over the buccinator muscle, arrives at the commissure of the lips, and gives filaments to tlie upper lip, as well as to the muscles and gkin of the neigh-