461 OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. ck of the nose, wlicre they frequently anastomose with the rami- •ations of the lirst division of the precctling branch ; the pyrami- 1 ills muscle, and the skin. OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVR. (Ramus Secundus Qtcinti Nervi.) 1655. Larger than the ophthalmic, and smaller than the inferior laxillary, the superior maxillary nerve arises from the middle part f the Gasserian ganglion, proceeds forwards and a little outwards, imd penetrates into the foramen rotundum of the sphenoid bone, to lass into the spheno-maxillary fossa (366). From its origin to this oint, the nerve, which is at first broad, afterwards contracts, pre- ents a triangular form, and preserves a grayish tint and very ap- arent plexiform disposition. At its entrance into the spheno-max- llary fossa, it resembles the other nerves; it traverses the fossa worizontally, passes through the infra-orbitar canal, and emerges to )i)e expanded upon the cheek. 1656. Orhitar Twig. In traversing the foramen rotundum of he sphenoid bone, sometimes in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the uperior maxillary nerve furnishes a pretty considerable twig, ^Thich directs itself forwards and upwards, and penetrates into the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure. It there divides, beneath he depressor oculi muscle, into two filaments. One of these, the malar, first anastomoses with the lachrymal nerve, passes through la canal of the cheek bone, is distributed to the orbicularis palpe- )rarum muscle and the skin, and terminates by uniting with a fil- lament of the facial nerve. The other filament, the temporal, passes tlthrough the orbitar portion of the same bone, enters the temporal tifossa, communicates with a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, •iascends obliquely outwards and backwards, pierces the temporal 1 aponeurosis, becomes subcutaneous, accompanies the superficial t temporal artery, anastomoses with some filaments of the facial 1 nerve, and loses itself in the skin of the temples and the top of the I; head. 1657. In the spheno-maxillary fossa, the superior maxillary nerve receives one or two short and thick twigs, which come from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and proceed, in the midst of adipose celhilar tissue, from above downwards, from within outwards, and from behind forwards, following a course the reverse of that of the nervous trunk. It furnishes, in the same place, the posterior aoid - superior dentar Jmmches, of a pretty considerable size, to the numhcr of three or four, and descending upon the maxillary tube- rosity, where, after several flexuosities, they enter into apertures which it furnishes for them (204). These apertures transmit them into the canals formed in the substance of the bone, where they divide into several filaments which descend forwards to