OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. 487 Of THE FOUllTH PAIR OF CEllVICAL NEIIVES. {Nervus Cervicalis Quarius). 1733. Posterior Branch. Smaller than that of the third jmir (I73I), it is lodged in a groove formed between the articular pro- cesses of the third and fourth vertebras, passes between the inser- tions of the complexus and semi-spinalis colli, descends for some extent between them, gives them some filaments, traverses the splcnius and trapezius muscles, and loses itself in the integuments. It communicates with the preceding nerve by a small filament, and also sends some ramifications to the trachelo-mastoideus, transver- salis colli, and levator anguli scapulas. 1734<. Anterior Branch. Directed at first outwards, then turn- ing over the fourth vertebra, it communicates with the superior cervical ganglion, the thkd and fifth pairs of cervical nerves, and contributes to the formation of the cervical plexus. OF THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 1735. Each of the anterior branches of the second, third, and fourth pairs of cervical nerves, after receiving a filament from the superior cervical ganglion, bifurcates and unites with the following and the preceding by two twigs, forming an arch from the con- vexity of which proceed others which again unite more externally. It is of those anastomoses, which vary greatly in different subjects, that the Cervical Plexus is formed. It lies upon the scalenus posticus muscle, on the outside of the pneumo-gastric nerve, caro- tid artery, and jugular vein, under the posterior edge of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, opposite the second, third, and fourth vertebras. Immersed in a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, inter- mingled with vessels, containing in its meshes many lymphatic ganglia, it communicates above with the first cervical nerve, below with the brachial plexus, and internally with the superior and middle cervical ganglia by several filaments. It also sends one or two filaments to the spinal accessory nerve (1719), furnishes some to the muscles on which it is applied, and gives off" various branches which are distinguished into internal and external descending, as- cending and superficial cervical. 1736. Internal Descending Branch. It is formed by two dis- tmct filaments, manifestly supplied by the anterior branches of the second and third cervical nerves, which unite into a single cord. It descends inwards under the sterno-mastoideus, and at the middle of the neck anastomoses, by a reversed arch, with the desccndens noni (I722).