ARTICULATIONS OF TIIK INFERIOR EXTRIiailTIES. 221 cent-shaped fibro-cartilaginous laminfp, tliick at their convex side, and thin at the other, wliich are situated between the condyles of the femur, and the articular cavities of the upper extremity of the tibia, of which they only occupy about the two external thirds, so that the middle of the upper extremity of that bone is free. One of them is internal; it is nearly semicircular, a little elongated from behind forwards however, and broader posteriorly than ante- riorly. Its convex margin, which is directed inwards, is partly united to the internal lateral ligament. The anterior extremity is attached to the fore part of the spine of the tibia, and is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. The posterior extremity is at- tached behind the same eminence. The other fibro-cartilage is external; it forms nearly an entire circle ; it is broader before than behind. Its convex margin-^ which is directed outwards, is contiguous posteriorly to the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and more anteriorly, affords points of at- tachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral liga- ment. Its anterior extremity is attached to the rough depression, which exists at the fore part of the spine of the tibia; but this in- sertion takes place much farther back than in the preceding carti- lage. Its posterior extremity is attached behind the spine of the tibia, before the insertion of the other cartilage, posteriorly to that of the posterior crucial ligament, with one of the two fasciculi of ■which it is continuous. These fibro-cartilages are composed of concentric fibres, longer externally than in the interior, less compact towards the extremi- ties than at the middle. They are connected anteriorly to each other by means of a small ligamentous fasciculus {ligamentum trans- versum), sometimes wanting, about a line broad, and surrounded by^ soft and yellowish adipose substance. Their upper surface is con- cave, the lower nearly plain. Both sire very smooth, and covered by the synovial membrane. Their concave edge is thin, sharp, and free, and their middle part is hollowed. 723. Synovial Membrane (Membrana synovialis articuli genu). This membrane has a very complicated course ; we shall commence its description at the posterior part of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, a place where it forms a very loose and distinct ,cul-de-sac, particularly apparent when that tendon is reversed from above downwards. It descends from this place over the posterior surface of the patella, on the sides and lower part of which it is in contact with much adipose cellular tissue. It then separates from the ligament of the patella, rests upon a great quantity of fat, and gives rise to a prolongation in the form of a canal, which traverses the articulation, and passes to the space between the two condyles of the femur.* The synovial membrane is now reflected on the fillr/°T "T"}^ "^^P ''"^ surface of this prolongation, and as it is commonly nncu witii a little lat, sojnc anatomists liave given it tlie name q( AdipoK Lifrcmcnt I'md 7 't '^"""ot I'y a'ly means be considered us belonging to