788 ORGANS OF SECRETION. ponds to the right extremity of the arch of the colon, while the posterior corresponds to the right kidney and the supra-renal cap- sule of the same side. 2896. Circumference of the Liver. It is irregularly quadrila- teral, varying in thickness at the different parts of its extent, and is everywhere, excepting at its posterior part, embraced by the pe- ritoneum. Anteriorly^ it is thin, convex, applied against the base of the thoraxj, and always interrupted by two notches. Of these, one is narrow and deep, and is formed by the anterior extremity of the longitudinal fissure; the other is broader, but more superficial, and placed to the right of the first: it corresponds to the fun- dus of the gall-bladder. This part of the circumference of the liver is horizontal in the middle, but, to the right and left, is in- clined downwards. Posteriorly, the circumference of the liver is shorter than be- fore ; but its thickness is considerable, especially to the right. It is rounded, and attached to the diaphragm, near its extremities, by two folds of the peritoneum, which are named the Lateral ox Trian- gular Ligaments of the liver. At the middle, it is united to the diaphragmatic aponeurosis, in an intimate manner, by a dense and close cellular tissue. It also presents the end of the longitudinal fissure, and that of the vena cava, together with the trunks of the hepatic veins. ' To the right, the circumference of the liver is thin at its fore part, thick behind, where it is in contact with the diaphragm. To the left, it presents a thin and convex edge, which is sometimes prolonged as far as the spleen under the form of a pretty broad tongue. OKGANIZATION OF THE LIVER. 2897- The structure of the liver is extremely complicated, and presents successively for examination envelopes, blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, a peculiar parenchyma, and an excretory ap- paratus. ENVELOPES OF THE LIVER. 2898. Serous or Peritoneal Envelope. This is a prolongation of the peritoneum, reflected from the lower surface of the diaphragm over the liver, which it does not surround in its whole extent. This envelope is transparent, smooth, polished, thin, and constantly bedewed with a serous fluid. Free on the side next the abdominal cavity, it adheres by its other surface to the second envelope, and does not cover the posterior part of the circumference of the organ, the two grooves of its inferior surface, that of the vena cava, and