351 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. upper part a flat and nearly vertical bundle, which becomes round- ed as it descends, and afterwards directs itself towards the sides of tlie upper strait of the pelvis, where it gives rise, near the crural arcli, to a very strong tendon. This tendon is placed at the inner side of the muscle before being totally separated from it, and is even concealed among its fleshy fibres, until close to the lumbar vertebrae. It receives, by its outer side, the fleshy fibres of the iliacus internus, passes under the crural arch, in the notch observ- ed between the Uio-pectineal eminence and the anterior and inferior iliac spine, descends inwards and backwards, over the capsule of the femur, and terminates by embracing the trochanter minor. 1291. The external surface of the psoas magnus, which is at the same time anterior, corresponds : that part of it which is above the crural arch, to the diaphragm, the kidney, the iliac fascia, and the psoas minor when it exists. Below the arch this surface becomes entirely anterior, and is covered by the cellular tissue of the bend of the groin, then by the crural artery and the corresponding vein. , Its inner surface, which is applied upon the sides of the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, and upon those of the corresponding interver- tebral fibro-cartilages, is yet separated from these parts by the lum- bar nerves and vessels ; it leaves between it and the fifth lumbar vertebra a triangular interval, filled with cellular tissue ; then, be- coming narrower, it is in contact with the external iliac vein and the tendon of the psoas parvus, and descends parallel to the pecti- neus, from which it is separated, at the lowest part, by the internal circumflex vessels. Its posterior surface is applied above upon the quadratus lumborum, from which it is separated by the lumbar nerves, and the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transver- sus abdominis. Farther down, it is connected with the os inno- minatum, and the capsular ligament of the hip joint (7070 1292. Synovial Bursa. A loose synovial membrane, of great extent, but scantily supplied with synovia, forming a sort of bag which descends to near the small trochanter, separates the branch of the pubes and the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, from the tendon of the psoas magnus, which it embraces behind. 1293. The psoas magnus bends the thigh on the pelvis, direct- ing the point of the foot a little outwards. It acts, especially in the standing posture, by retaining the body when it tends to fall back- wards, and can even bend the pelvis and vertebral column on the inferior extremity. This flexion is direct when the muscles of both sides contract at the same time, but it is obhque if only one acts. This muscle performs a principal part in walking. OF THE ILIACUS INTEUNUS. ■ 1294;. This muscle lies in the iliac fossa, from which it borrows Its name. It is broad and thin above, thick and narrow below, tri- angular and radiated. It arises, by very small aponeuroses, from about the upper three-fourths of the iliac fossa, the inner lip of the