615 OF THE CCECUM. Of the Large Intestine (Intestinum Crassum), or of the Ccecum and Colon. OF THE C(ECUM. CONFORMATION AND DISPOSITION. 2184. The Ccecum*, which is placed between the end of the small intestine and the commencement of the colon, in the right iliac fossa, which it almost entirely fills, has been so named because it is prolonged inferiorly under the form of a cul-de-sac. Its vo- lume is often triple that of the small intestine, and surpasses that of the colon or rectum. Its length is about three or four finger- breadths, and no other limits can be assigned it, to distinguish it from the colon, than the termination of the small intestine. It has nearly the appearance of an irregular triangular prism. Its outer surface presents very large bulgings, irregularly disposed, and in- terrupted in three places by very distinct longitudinal depressions, formed by the union of the longitudinal muscular fibres. One of these depressions is anterior; the other two are posterior; but one is turned to the right and the other to the left. The outer surface of the ccecum is in connexion anteriorly with the walls of the abdomen, posteriorly with the psoas magnus and iliacus internus of the right side, internally with the small intes- tine, of which it receives the lower extremity, which is inserted in- to it so as to form an acute angle below and an obtuse or nearly right angle above. There is observed in this place a circular groove, deeper and more distinct below than above. 2185. The ccecum is surmounted by several appendages formed by particular folds of the peritoneum, and filled with fat; their number, form, and size, are equally indeterminate. Below, to the left, and posteriorly, there is always seen arising from it a parti- cular appendage, of the same nature as itself, the appendix ver- imformis. It is of the size of a writing quiU, varying from two to four inches in length, cylindrical, flexuous, and bent upon itself; free nearly in its whole extent, but bound down to the right upon the ccecum by a fold of the peritoneum. Its surface is free, po- lished, whitish, and traversed by some vessels. It is hollow in its ■whole extent, and communicates with the cavity of the coecum. Its walls are veiy thick, and it is constantly filled with a mucous fluid. In the foetus, the appendix vermiformis is remarkable for its great development. Its uses are entirely unknown. 2186. In its interior, the coecum is Uned by a mucous mem- brane, which we shall afterwards describe. It presents three loh-' gitudinal prominences, which correspond to the three external de- * luteilinuvi cacitm, the blind intestine.