817 OF THE URETHllA. partly by means of the sphincter ani, by a bulging called the Bulb of the Urethra, which is placed immediately under the angle of union of the crura of the corpus cavernosum, above the two acce- leratores urinie muscles and the skin, between Cowper s glands, and insensibly loses itself anteriorly in the rest of the spongy tissue. This portion of tlie canal is afterwards in relation inferiorly with the septum of the dartos and skin. Its upper part is lodged in a groove of the corpus cavernosum (3001). 3009. Considered as to its interior, the urethra has not the same breadth in its whole course. From being pretty wide at its com- mencement, it presently contracts, and again dilates in the centre of the prostate gland. The membraneous portion which comes next is much narrower than any other part of the canal, which is wider from the bulb to the base of the glans. There, immediately before opening, it becomes the seat of a very decided dilatation, which is named the Fossa navicularis, and is finally contracted at its orifice. 3010. There are observed in the interior of the urethra and in the whole length of that canal, two median whitish lines, the one superior, the other inferior. There are also observed, but in the membraneous and spongy portions only, some longitudinal wrinkles which are effaced when the mucous membrane forming them is distended, and which do not extend into the fossa navicularis. 3011. The inferior median line ends posteriorly at an oblong, rounded prominence, about an inch long, called the Verumontmium {Caput Gallinaginis.) This prominence is formed by the mucous membrane, and contains in its most retired part a vast lacuna. Anteriorly, it becomes thin and ends in a point. The oblique ori- fices of the ejaculatory ducts (2991) are placed upon its sides, those of the prostate gland are seen at its surface (2989), arranged in the form of a semi-circle, and anteriorly, those of Cowper's glands. All these orifices are entirely destitute of valves. Some- times only the summit of the ridge is drawn back upon itself, so as to cover with a kind of prepuce the aperture of the ejaculatory ducts. OKGANIZATION OF THE URETHRA. 3012. In its whole extent, the urethra is lined by a mucous, membrane, which is backed, in its first two portions, by a cellular membrane, and in the last, by a layer of a soft and spongy tissue. 3013. Mucous Membrane. It is continuous, on the one hand, with that which covers the glans, and on the other, with the inner I coat of the bladder (2960), and with the membranes which line 1 the ejaculatory and prostatic ducts, &c. It does not adhere firm- 1 ly to the subjacent parts, excepting towards the glans and in the 1 prostate. Its colour varies according to the different parts 'where 1 it is examined, being of a bright red near the external orifice, very 1 pale and whitish in the rest of its extent. It is folded upon itself