ORGANS 01-' DIGESTION. 616 pressions mentioned above (2184), and cellules occupying their intervals, separated by transverse folds, and forming externally prominences which we have also mentioned. Inferiorly, and pos- teriorly, is seen the entrance of the appendix vermiformis, which is always free and open, and a little widened. To the left are the orifice of the small intestine and the ileo-colic valve or valvule of Baukin. This valve, which is destined to prevent the return of the excremen- titious matters from the coccum into the small intestine, is ellipti- cal, broad, soft, thick, without support, and directed transversely. In the direction of its great diameter it is divided by a slit wliich separates it into two hps united at their extremities, adhering to the intestine by their convex edge, and floating in its cavity by their concave edge, Of these two lips, the upper, which is nar- rower, corresponds above to the colon and below to the small in- testine ; while the lower, which is broader, faces the small intestine above, and the coecum below. Their extremities unite and form a prominent line on each side, which terminates insensibly in the straight part of the coecum. These rugie were called by Morgagui the Frcena of the Valvule of Bauhin. ORGANIZATION OF THE CCECUM. 2187- Serous Membrane or Coat. The peritoneum wholly covers the inferior portion of the coecuni, and invests the greater part of it above. It then leaves it to pass upon the walls of the abdomen, without in general forming any fold. Sometimes, how- ever, a'more or less distinct fold is observed, to which the name of Meso-ca;cum is given. 2188. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is composed of longi- tudinal and circular fibres. The latter present nothing particular, and have exactly the same disposition as in the small intestine; but the longitudinal fibres are united into three distinct bands, and are shorter than the intestine itself, so that they oblige it to become puckered, shortened as it were, and to present the promi- nences of which we have already made mention (2184). These fasciculi seem to arise from the appendix vermiformis, and on cut- ting them transversely, the coecum is immediately seen to elon- gate, and the transverse folds and prominences which it presented, entirely disappear. The layer of cellular tissue Avhich connects this membrane with the following is thicker than in the smaU intestines, but in other respects presents nothing remarkable. 2189. Mucous Membrane or Coat. Its villosities are much less apparent than those of the small intestine. It has no valvulas conniventes, and contains a greater quantity of mucous follicles; but they are isolated from each other. 2190. The ileo-colic valve is formed by the mucous coat of the small intestine and the cellular coat which lines it, folded upon