ORGANS OF CIllCULATION. 700 2509- Of the Left Phrenic. Artery. Arising at tlic same point as the preceding, it ascends outwards, before the left pillar of the diaphragm, to which it furnishes some twigs. It also sends one of somewhat larger size over the oesophagus, which ascends upon that canal into the thorax, and communicates with one of the ojso- phageal arteries. It also gives three or four small branches to the left supra-renal capsule, and reaches the aponeurosis of the dia- phragm, where it divides into two branches, above the oesophageal aperture of the diaphragm. 2510. Anterior Bra?ich. Directed obliquely from behind for- wards, it gains the anterior region of the muscle, after giving off a twig which anastomoses with the opposite artery at the fore part of the oesophagus (2507)- On the diaphragm itself, it separates- into a great number of secondary branches, one of which directs itself to the right, and communicates, as we have said, behind the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, with the opposite artery ; the others are distributed precisely as on the right side. 2511. Exteroial Branch. It is larger. Directed transversely behind the left lobe of the phrenic aponeurosis, it ramifies in the fleshy fibres of the muscle, and anastomoses with the anterior branch, the last intercostal and the lumbar arteries. Some of its ramifications go to the spleen. OF THE CCELIAC* ARTERY. 2512. The Cceliac Artery (Art. cocliaca), is the shortest of the arteries which the abdominal aorta furnishes. It comes off at a right angle, between the crura of the diaphragm, opposite the union of the last vertebra of the back with the first of the loins. It is directed horizontally forwards and to the right, in the poste- rior separation of the two laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum. It corresponds, above, to the left side of the small lobe of the liver; below, to the upper edge of the pancreas, on which it rests; to the left, to the carcUa; to the right, to a pretty considerable space which separates it from the pylorus. 2513. This artery sometimes furnishes the capsular or the infe- rior phrenic. But it always separates after a course of about half an inch, into three branches of unequal size, which are named the coronary artery of the stomach, the hepatic artery, and the splenic artery. * KoiKiet, venter, vcntricuhts.