558 ORGANS OF SENSATION. into the chambers of the eye by particular ducts. This was tlie opinion of Nuck, Ruysch, and Santorini, which others have re- garded as unfounded. OF THE CRYSTALLINE LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. 1976. The Crystalline* Lens (Lens crystallina) is a transpa- rent body, of a lenticular form in the adult, nearly spherical in the foetus, placed between the aqueous humour and the vitreous body, at the meeting of the two posterior thirds of the eye with its ante- rior third. Its axis, which corresponds to the centre of the pupil (1962), approaches the nose a little. Its diameter is four lines, and its thickness about two. Its anterior surface, which is bathed by the aqueous humour of the posterior chamber of the eye, is convex and free in its whole extent, presenting a segment of a sphere of much smaller diameter than that which the vitreous body represents. It is separated from the iris and ciliary processes by the posterior chamber of the eye (^962). It is always less convex than the posterior surfacey v/hich is received in a particular cavity of the vitreous humour. The circumference of the crystalline lens is more firmly attached to the vitreous body, than its posterior surface. 1977' l'^^ crystalline lens, which is perfectly transparent in the adult, is a little reddish in the foetus, and yellowish in old persons. Its softness diminishes in the direct ratio of age. In children, it is entirely pulpy ; but in grown up persons, it appears composed of two very different layers, an external and a central. The former, which is pretty thick, is soft, viscid, and easily removed; the other constitutes a kind of solid nucleus, formed of a great number of concentric superimposed laminae. Each of these lamina? itself ap- pears to present concentric fibres when the lens has been exposed to the action of certain reagents. Some of these fibres detach; themselves from one lamina to go to the next, and are thus the only means by which they are united together. The number of these laminae is indeterminate. We also observe that the crystalline lens may be very easily di- vided into three pretty regular segments of a sphere, at the centre of which there exists a very small transparent globule. 1978. Chenevix has found that the specific gravity of the human lens is I.O79O. He thinks that it differs chemically from the aque- ous humour only in having a larger proportion of gelatine and al- bumen, and in the absence of saline matters. It entirely loses its transparency through the action of caloric and after being boiled in water, as well as by desiccation. It putrifies under long macera- tion. • Kfi/r]«X^.«f, crystaUits.