THE Sl'HENOlD BONE. 41 drives passage to the ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair of nerves, the third, fourth, and sixth pairs, the optic vein, a branch of the 1 lachrymal artery, or that artery itself in some cases, and, lastly, to : a prolongation of the dura mater. Beyond the sphenoidal fissure, ; the frontiil margin of the sphenoid bone becomes again rough and I uneven ; it becomes very broad, and is articulated to the frontal 1 bone by a triangular surface. 124!. The cerebral and zygomato-temporal aspects of the sphe- noid bone are likewise separated by a margin which is concave, al- 1 ternately sloped on its two lips, and presenting asperities which are : articulated with the temporal bone. At the union of this edge ■ -with the preceding, there is, at the expense of the inner plate, an irregular facet, which is articulated with the anterior and lower angle of the parietal bone, Beneath, it is confounded with the oc- . cipital aspect, and there gives rise to a pointed eminence, named i the Sphenoidal spine, which gives attachment to the internal la- teral ligament of the articulation of the jaw, and to the external mus^cle of the malleus. This process is received into a retirbg ; angle, formed by the anterior edge of the petrous portion, and by i the circumference of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. 125. Structure. In the centre, especially before the sinuses are developed, at the bases of the processes of Ingrassias and of the ; pterygoid processes, at the upper and outer part of what is named ; the Large Wings, the sphenoid bone is thick, and contains a great quantity of cellular tissue. In the rest of its extent, it is thinner, and formed of compact tissue. 126. Articulations. The sphenoid bone is articulated with the frontal, ethmoid, occipital, parietal, and temporal bones, with the : sphenoidal turbinated bones, the malar bones, the palate bones, and the vomer, by the different parts that have been already mentioned; sometimes, moreover, this bone is articulated with the superior maxillary bones by inequalities which occur towards the union of the pterygoid processes with the orbito-nasal aspect. 127. Development. The sphenoid bone is developed by seven points of ossification which commence: 1st, at the centre of the bone ; 2d and .3d, at the base of each of the processes of Ingras- sias ; 4th and 5th, at the place of the junction of the pterygoid processes with the rest of the bone ; 6th and 7th, in the inner plate of the same processes. The last-mentioned nucleus is the Omoid Bone of Herissant. 128. In the fetus, the sphenoid bone evidently forms two distinct principal pieces, the one anterior or spheno-orbital, the other pos- terior or spheno-temim-al; these might be named anterior and posterior sphenoid bones.