766 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. wards its fissure. They then proceed, upon the sides of the aorta, to end in the lumbar gangha. The ureters are also surrounded by a great number of lympha- tics, which ascend upon them anastomosing together. 2815. Capsular Lymphatics. They come frojn the supra-renal capsules, anastomose frequently together, and unite in part with tliose of the kidneys. Some of those of the right side terminate in the hepatic ganglia. Several of those of the left side end in the splenic gangha, or in those which cover the corresponding crus of the diaphragm. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE WALLS OF THE PELVIS AND ABJJOMEN. 28 J 6. Ilio-Lumbar Lymphatics. They originate in the substance of the iliacus muscle, and upon the iliac bone, uniting afterwards into two trunks which pass under the psoas muscle, and subdivide again to terminate partly in the inferior lumbar ganglia, and partly to contribute to the formation of the Eooternal Iliac Lymphatic Pleanis, or the assemblage of lymphatics which accompany the ex- ternal iliac vessels, passing from one ganglion to the other, and anastomosing thousands of times with each other. 2817. Sacral Lymphatics. These arise from the adipose tissue in which the rectum, sacral nerves, and pyriformis muscle are im- mersed. Some of them issue from the sacral canal by the anterior sacral holes, and all terminate in the inferior lumbar or hypogas- tric ganglia. Those which go to the latter contribute to form the Hypogastric Lymphatic Plexus, which, like the external iliac plexus, is constituted by an intertexture of vessels and ganglia, and is placed upon the sides of the pelvis. It is in it that the ob- turator, glutaeal, ischiatic, uterine and vesical lymphatics terminate. Externally, it is continuous with the corresponding external iliac plexus, internally with its fellow on the middle of the sacrum, and superiorly with the lumbar lymphatic plexus. 2818. Epigastric Lymphatics. Arising from the anterior wall of the abdomen, in the vicinity of the umbilicus, they pass from without inwards through the abdominal aponeurosis, and dive into the recti muscles, where they are joined by new twigs which come from these muscles themselves, and from the obliqui and tranversus muscles. They then unite into several trunks, descend along the course of the epigastric vessels, and subdivide in some small gan- glia situated near the crural arch, to terminate afterwards in the external iliac plexus. 2819. Circumflex Iliac Lymphatics. Their radicles are distri- buted in the integuments of the sides of the belly, and pass success sively through the substance of the transversus and obhqui muscles, where they are augmented by some others. They then collect in- to some trunks which descend forwards towards the iliac crest,