764, ORGANS OF ADSORPTION. all parts of the sole of the foot, and form several trunks which ascend along with the posterior tibial artery, which they embrace on all sides as far as the popliteal ganglia. 2799. Fibular Lymphatics. They arise in like manner from the sole of the foot, follow the course of the fibular artery, and terminate in the popliteal ganglia. 2800. All the deep lymphatic vessels of the leg and foot thus terminate in the popHteal ganglia, which are united together -by a great number of short lymphatic vessels, which there form a true plexus, whence issue two, three, or four trunks, which ascend along the popliteal vessels, pass through the insertion of the adductor magnus muscle, follow the femoral vessels, receiving all the deep lymphatics of the thigh, and subdividing up to the deep inguinal ganglia, where they terminate. Some of them go to the first exter- nal iliac ganglia. SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HIPS, PERINEUM, LOINS, EXTEKNAL PARTS OF GENERATION, SeC. 2801. Lymphatics of the Hips. They are immersed in a great quantity of cellular tissue, and communicate frequently together. They turn over the outer and inner parts of the thigh, to unite with the superficial absorbents and those of the perinaeum, and ter- minate at the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2802. Lymphatics of the Loins. They come from the posterior and lateral parts of the vertebral column, behind which those of one side communicate with those of the opposite. They then de- scend above the iliac crest, and divide in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2803. Lymphatics of the lower half of the Walls of the Abdo- men. Their roots, which anastomose frequently together, com- mence opposite the umbilicus, and form a net-work over the whole anterior region of the abdomen. They unite inferiorly into a few trunks which terminate in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2804. Lymphatics of the Perinceum, Scrotum, and Penis. Those of the scrotum are very numerous. They ascend on each side to the inner part of the thigh, where they unite with those of the peringeum and penis. The latter form two distinct bundles upon the lateral parts of the penis, and subdivide to unite with the others, as well as with a single lymphatic which runs along the back of the penis, and bifurcates towards its root. They all ter- minate together in the superficial inguinal ganglia. 2805. In the female, the lymphatics of the labia pudendi and clitoris have the same termination.