39 THE SPHENOID BONE. also gives passage to an emissary vein of Santorini. At the fore- most part there occurs, 'Jtlily, The orbital process or small imn(j of In(jrassias, a triangular, depressed, transverse eminence, smooth above, where it corresponds to the anterior lobes of the brain; forming part of the orbit below ; terminated anteriorly by an un- even edge, which unites with the lower margin of the frontal bone ; posteriorly by a blunt free edge, which penetrates into a fissure of the brain; externally by a pointed summit; internally, by a thicker part, in which there is remarked, posteriorly, Sthly, The anterior vlinoid process, which is sometimes prolonged to the posterior, and also gives attachment to a fold of the tentorium cerebelli; and, an- teriorly, dthly, The optic foramen or rather canal for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery, directed forwards and out- wards towards the orbit, beneath the orbital process itself. Be- tween this hole and the anterior clinoid process, there is observed a semicircular notch, which receives the internal carotid artery, as it issues from the cavernous sinus; sometimes there is a par- ticidar hole for the ophthalmic artery. It is proper to observe also, that most commonly the base of the orbital process contains a sort of sinus, or small cavity, which opens towards the orbit by a narrow orifice, into which a slender branch of the ophtlialmic artery enters, as Bertin has observed. 117. Occipital or Posterior Aspect. This aspect is of very small extent, and presents, at its middle part, an uneven and rough quadrilateral surface covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and at an early age. This surface is destined to articulate with that which terminates the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and, in the adult, it unites with it in an intimate manner, so that the two bones then form but one. In individuals in which this union has not taken place, there is observed, at each of the upper angles of this surface, a small hook, which retains the basilar process. 118. On the sides, this aspect is constituted by an irregular, thickish edge, presenting, near the quadrilateral surface, the poste- rior orifice of the vidian canal, which, narrower than the anterior and surmounted by a small eminence, is continued inwards into a narrow groove, which is itself a continuation of the pterygo-pala- tme. A little more outwards there are some asperities which, in conjunction with the anterior edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, form the foramen laccrum medium. 119- Orhito-nasul or Anterior Aspect. This is of greater extent than the preceding, and is vertically intersected in its middle by a thin prominent ridge, which is articulated with the ethmoid bone, and which forms a partition between two cavities, of which we shall presently speak. This ridge is surmovinted by a small depressed and very thin process, which also joins the ethmoid bone; not unfrequently this eminence docs not exist, and there is, on the contrary, a notch in its place. • If^' either side of this ridge, there is observed an aperture, viih. irregular lacerated edges, varying in size in diilcrent sub-