OF THE EXTERNAL PLANTAU ARTERY. 733 to the skin. Several creep upon the inner side of the foot, and anastomose with those of its dorsal artery. OF THE EXTERNAL .PLANTAE. ARTEllY. (Art. Plantaris Externa.) 2670. This ought to be considered as the true continuation of the posterior tibial artery. It separates from the preceding, direct- ing itself obUquely downwards and inwards, in the groove of the calcaneum, and passes between the flexor brevis communis and ac- cessorius muscles. It then proceeds forwards, in the interval that exists between the first of these muscles and the abductor minimi digiti; after which it bends inwards, towards the posterior extre- mity of the fifth metatarsal bone, to dive between the adductor pol- licis and interossei muscles, and the posterior extremities of the metatarsal bones, describing a curve which brings it near the first of these bones, under which it anastomoses with the dorsal artery of the foot (2656). It thus forms with it the Plantar Arch {ar- cus plantaris), the concavity of which is directed backwards. From the course which we have described it as following, it is easy to perceive that the external plantar artery forms a great curve, whose convexity corresponds to the outer part of the sole of the foot, and that the point at which it terminates is nearly opposite that at which it commences. 2671. Before forming the plantar arch, this artery gives twigs to the superficial muscles of the sole of the foot and to the inte- guments. One of them, which is of considerable size, descends vertically upon the inner part of the calcaneum, and is distributed to the origins of the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum muscles. The accessorius and abductor minimi digiti also receive twigs from it. 2672. The branches which arise from the plantar arch are dis- tinguished into 2673. Superior Branches. They are three in number, and pass vertically through the interosseous spaces, bearing the name of Posterior Perforating Arteries (Art. perforantes posteriores.) They give at first twigs to the interossei muscles and to the peri- osteum of the metatarsal bones, and anastomose on the back of the foot with the interosseous twigs of the metatarsal artery (2654). 2674. Posterior and Inferior Branches. They are very small, and distributed to the interossei and lumbricales muscles, the cellular tissue and the articulations of the tarsal with the metatar- sal bones. 2075. Anterior Branches. These are the largest, and com- monly four in number. The first directs itself forwards and a little outwards under the flexor brevis minimi digiti, to which it gives numerous twigs, and terminates on the outer edge of the little toe.