ORGANS OF GENEllATION. ed and is connected to the uterus by bloodvessels. The foetal surface is covered by the cliorion and amnios and presents the ra- mifications of the umbilical vessels, which are the umbilical vein, and the two umbilical arteries; the radicles of these vessels com- municate with each other, but no communication has ever been shown to exist between them and the utero-placcntine vessels. OF THE UMBILICAL CORD. 3066. The Umbilical Cord (funis unibilicalis) is composed of the umbilical vein and the two umbiUcal arteries twisted together like a rope, and surrounded by a gelatinous substance, and the re- flections of the chorion and amnios already mentioned: there are also found the urachus, and, at the early period of the foetus, the omj)halo-mesenteric vessels, along with a slender duct, which are connected with the vesicula umhilicalis, a vesicle containing a yellowish fluid, which is situated between the chorion and amnios. OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE FOETUS. 3067- The umbilical vein carries the blood from the placenta to the fcEtus; it enters the liver by the umbilical fissure, and, in the transverse fissure, communicates with the vena portas, sending the greater part of the blood to be circulated in the liver; the rest is transmitted directly to the vena cava inferior by the ductus veno- sus, which seems to be the continuation of the umbilical vein.* The blood circulated in the liver is carried to the vena cava infe- rior by the hepatic veins; by the vena cava the blood is carried in- to the right auricle. Now, the right auricle, in the foetus, com- municates directly with the left by the foramen ovale (2252). The greater part of this blood, therefore, passes into the left auri- cle, being conducted into it by the disposition of the Eustachian valve (2252) and foramen ovale; from the left auricle, the blood is sent into the left ventricle, from which it is propelled into the aorta. The blood from the vena cava superior and coronary vein and what remains of that from the vena cava inferior is supposed to pass into the right ventricle, from which it is sent into the pul- monary artery. But the disposition of the pulmonary artery is not the same as in the adult, for at its division a third branch arises, which is larger than the pulmonary branches; it is the ductus arteriosus (2258), . and opens directly into the aorta, at the lower part of its arch ; it, therefore, carries most of the blood from the right ventricle directly into the aorta, very Httle of it passing into the lungs, which are at this time small and collapsed. " In most animals the ductus venosus is merely a branch arising from the sinus of the vena portae.