OllGANS OF DIGESTION. 590 edge, which is directed downwards, is rounded and covered witli <a very thin red iielliclc, on which are observed some wrinkles di- rected across the lips, and a very distinct epithelium. At the mid - dle part of this edge there exists a small prominence, limited later ally by two depressions which are more or less distinct according to the subject. The under lip presents, anteriorly and in the median line, a very slight vertical prominence, and a transverse depression of con- siderable extent, which separates it from the chin. Posteriorly, it is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, which forms ;i bridle for it much shorter than that of the upper. Its free edge is also larger than that of the upper lip; it is directed upwards, depressed in the middle, somewhat prominent on either side, and in other respects precisely similar to the upper. The vinder lip has less vertical extent than the upper. Both are laterally united by means of two acute angles, which are called their commissures. These commissures, which are a little depressed, present no trace of fibrous tissue, and are entirely fleshy. 2107. Skin of the Lips. The skin which covers the lips diflcrs in nothing from that which is met with in the other parts of the body ; only it is much thinner and more delicate. The cellular tissue which connects it with the subjacent parts contains no fat. In the adult male it is covered with a greater or less quantity of liair; in the female it does not present the same disposition, ex- cepting in some rare instances. On the upper lip, these hairs are very numerous, and form two oblique rows, meeting under the nose, and prolonged as far as the commissures ; these are what are called the moustaches. On the under lip they are not so thick, and form part of the heard, properly so called. They are especially nu- merous in the depression which separates it from the chin. 2108. Muscular layer of the lips. This has been already des- cribed. It is formed, on either side: in the upper lip, by the leva- tor labii superioris alseque nasi, levator proprius, zygomaticus minor, and depressor alae nasi; in the under lip, by the quadratus and levator menti; in the commissures, by the buccinator, trian- gularis, levator anguli oris, and zygomaticus major; lastly, their free edge is especially constituted by the orbicularis oris. 2109. Mucous layer of the lips. Here the mucous membrane is remarkable for its redness, the small number of villosities which appear upon its surface, and its very distinct epithelium. Between it and the muscular layer, there occurs a multitude of large mucous .follicles, rounded and prominent, mostly separated from each other, and opening by a very distinct orifice upon the posterior surface of the lips. They are commonly named labial glaoids. 2110. The arteries of the lips are all furnished by the external carotid, and in particular by its facial, submental, mental, buccal, infra-orbitar, alveolar, and transverse branches. The veins cor- respond to them, and open into the two jugular veins. Their lym- phatic vessels descend towards the ganglia which are situated