OF THE TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY. G81 nisliing some ramifications to the periosteum of the vcrtebrao, the oesophagus and bronchi. 2419. In the second intercostal space, the artery terminates by- dividing into two branches, which follow precisely the same course as the preceding, and are lost in the muscles, or anastomose wide- ly with the first aortic intercostal artery. OF THE TRANSVERSE CEUVICAL ARTERY. (Art. transversalis colli)- 2420. Next to the vertebral, inferior thyroid, and mammary ar- teries, this is the largest branch of the sub-clavian. It sometimes arises from the inferior thyroid. Directing itself transversely out- wards, it winds along the scaleni muscles above the nerves which form the brachial plexus, in the triangular space which exists be- tween the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and trapezius muscles and the clavicle, where it is covered by the first of these muscles. It then curves and descends obliquely backwards, under the trapezius and levator anguU scapulae muscles, changes its direction again, and descends vertically under the rhomboideus muscle, along the pos- terior edge of the scapula, where it gets the name of posterior sca- pular {art. scapularis posterior), to terminate by subdividing near its inferior angle. 2421. Near its origin, this artery gives off several branches to the scaleni muscles, which ascend vertically, and another larger and more superficial branch (Superjicial Cervical Artery), which proceeds in a tortuous manner from within backwards, and goes to be distributed to the splenius and trapezius muscles, the cellular tissue and skin of the inferior and lateral region of the neck. In passing under the levator anguli scapulae, it sends upwards a pretty large branch to this muscle and the trapezius, and downwards se- veral branches, which descend under the latter muscle as far as the supra-spinatus, and are equally distributed among them, communi- cating with several branches of the supra-scapular artery. 2422. Opposite the rhomboideus muscle, the transverse cervical artery separates into two equal branches, one of which follows the posterior edge of the scapula, and spreads out in the sub-scapula- ris, serratus magnus, rhomboideus, serratus posticus superior, la- tissimus dorsi and trapezius muscle, as well as in the integuments of the back ; while the other proceeds outwards, under the scapula, and is destined for the serratus magnus and sub-scapularis alone. 2423. In some subjects the transverse cervical artery comes from the axillary, and then, instead of passing above the nerves of the brachial plexus, it glides in one of the intervals which they leave between them.