ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 248 OP THE VEllTEBRAL APONEUROSIS. 826. These two muscles are united hy an aponeurosis so tliin as to be absolutely transparent, and almost to disappear by desic- cation. It is fixed, to the upper edge of the one, and lower of the other; but is also attached externally to the angles of the ribs, and internally to the spinous processes. Its form is con- sequently that of a very elongated quadrilateral plane; its fibres are in general indistinct, and interlaced with each other in the direction of the aponeurosis; at the upper and lower parts, how- ever, there arc some transverse fibres which are more distinct, and run in a direction parallel to those of the serrati postici muscles. This aponeurosis keeps down the vertebral muscles behind, which are thus inclosed in a sort of sheath, bony before, and membra- nous in tlie other direction. OF THE SrLENIUs. (Miisculi Splenius Capitis et Splenius Cervicis.) H27. Tlie splenius is an elongated, fiat, althougli pretty thick muscle, much broader above than below, situated obliquely at the back of the neck and upper part of the back. It arises by aponeu- rotic fibres, which are longer below than above, from the spinous processes of the fii'st five or six dorsal vertebras, from their inter- spinal ligaments, from the spinous process of the last cervical ver- tebra, and from the ligamentvun nuchac, as far as the tliird cer- vical vertebra. From these different points of attachment, the fleshy fibres arise, which form a bundle whose thickness and breadth continue to increase as it recedes from them. It ascends outwards, leaving between it and its fellow a triangular interval, in which the complexus is seen. On arriving at the middle part of the neck, it separates into two portions. The lower and outer of these, which bears the name of splenitis cervicis, is narrower, and is itself divid- ed into three small bundles, which are attached by an equal num- ber of thin and slender tendons, longer internally than externally, to the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrre, where they are often confounded with the tendons of the trans- versalis colli, levator anguli scapula;, scalenus posticus, and first inter-transversus colli. The other portion, which is superior and internal, is called the sphnius cajntis; it is larger, continues to ascend, and terminates, by short aponeurotic fibres, at the outer lialf of the rough impression observed between tlie two curved lines of the occipital bone, at the mastoid portion, and the whole outer edge of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, below the inser- tion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus. 828. The posfcrior surface of the splenius is covered above by