ORGANS OF ClilCULATION. G88 anastomosing with the thoracic and circumflex arteries. Others direct themselves transversely inwards and backwards, round the long portion of the triceps extensor, in which they descend to a greater or less extent, ramifying much. Lastly, there are some which arise lower and descend, some backwards in the long por- tion of the same muscle, the others forwards in its inner portion. Among these latter there is commonly one which follows the ulnar nerve to the lower part of the arm, where it anastomoses near the inner condyle with the twigs of the ramus anastomoticus. 2451. The Deep Humeral Artery. {Art. profunda humeri.) It is of considerable size, but does not always come from the bra- chial artery, being sometimes given off' by the posterior circum- flex, sometimes by the subscapular. When it is furnished by the brachial artery, it separates from it above the inner portion of the triceps extensor muscle, opposite the groove of the humerus in ■which the musculo-spiral or radial nerve winds, and follows the course of that nerve exactly, being placed above it (1777)- It therefore passes at first between the triceps extensor and the hu- merus, directing itself backwards and downwards, and when it has arrived at the middle of the posterior surface of the arm, enters be- tween the triceps extensor and brachialis internus, emerges through the interval which separates them, and becomes superficial. It then descends vertically, and at a greater or less distance from the elbow joint separates into two branches. 2452. Near its origin, the deep humeral artery gives off poste- rior twigs which descend to a greater or less distance in the triceps extensor muscle, and of which one follows its inner portion to near the olecranon. At the same point there also separate from it ex- ternal branches which go to the outer portion of the muscle, the brachialis internus, and over the periosteum of the humerus. One of them {art. nutritia humeri) enters the nutritious canal of that bone, and is distributed to its medullary membrane, 2453. Two branches terminate this artery ; one of them follows its original direction and loses itself in the triceps extensor muscle, near its insertion into the olecranon. The other directs itself be- tween the brachialis internus and the integuments, and gives a great number of ramifications to them as well as to the upper part of the supinator longus. 2454. In many cases, the trunk itself of the deep humeral ar- tery anastomoses a little above the outer condyle with a branch given off farther down, and with which it forms a transverse arch, which embraces the humerus externally. The twigs which issue from this arch are diffused over the elbow joint and the origins of the extensor muscles of the hand. 2455. The Ramus Anastomoticus. It arises from the brachial, very near the inner condyle, and directs itself transversely inwards, before the brachiahs internus muscle and behind the median nerve, whose direction it crosses. It passes through the aponeurosis placed between the brachialis internus and the inner edge of the