OF THE ARTERIES, OR VESSELS OF THE HEART. 645 : heart, the more anastomoses do they present. In the last twigs, ; these inosculations are so numerous as to constitute an inextrica-' cble lacework. 2277. Viewed in a general manner, the arteries form an assem- tblao-e of vessels which go on decreasing in succession ; but on com- {paring them with each other, it is discovered that this progressive cdecrement is far from being a constant law. Frequently two or t three branches arising from the same trunk have each the volume oof the trunk itself Frequently, also, very small ramifications come (Idirectly from the largest branches. Another remarkable circumstance is, that the calibre of the ar- iteries does not diminish in the ratio of the number and volume of (the branches which they furnish. Thus the aorta is nearly as vo- iiuminous before the lumbar vertebrjE as at its origin. In this imanner each artery is cylindrical, and instead of considering their :i2ggregate as a series of cones whose bases are directed towards the haeart, and their summits towards the organs, we must view them lias a series of cylinders successively added to each other, and suc- ocessively decreasing. A third general consideration is, that the sum of the luiited dia- nmeters of all the arterial branches much exceeds the diameter of uthe aorta, so that the arteries may be viewed as constituting, in •their aggregate, a cone of which the summit ends in the heart, .while its base embraces all the rest of the body. 2278. The last divisions of the arteries ramify to infinity, and form net-works, whose disposition varies in the different organs.* iFrom the extremities of the arteries the veins seem to come, but tbhe precise manner in which the communication between the arte- ries and veins takes place, the most minute inquiries have not yet satisfactorily made known. The existence of such a comnaunica- ::;ion, however, is placed beyond doubt. 2279. The arteries are composed of three membranes lying up- VA each other, which are named Coats. The innermost of these nembranes is a continuation of that which lines the left cavities of ! ;he heart (2273). It is very thin, fine, transparent, absolutely • lestitute of fibres, smooth, and as if serous; it breaks and tears :vith the greatest facility. Externally, there occurs another dense ] • Diversitas multitudinis et crassitiei ramorum, qui alii post alios a trunculo ali. I luo arterioso secedunt,—angulorum, sub quibus discedunt diversitas flexioiuim, nex- ii.um et anastomosium arteriaruni, quas in ipsis subtilissimis, nec nisi microscopii r»pc distingucndis arteriaruna per varias partes dispersionibus cernis, adeo constans '"^t, ut facta felicitcr retium vasculosorum artificiosa repletione, his ipsis retibus va- rorum hepatis aliquod fragmcntupi a frustulo glandulae thyreoidea; vel renis et sic • lorro, facile possit distirigui—Sic arteriarum in intestinis distributio quodammodo j-jmilis est arbusculo foiiis destituto; in placenta uteri cirrulo ; in liene peniculo ad- k«persorio; in musculis sarniontorum fasciculo ; in lingua penicillo ; in jecoris mcm- liina Stella;; in testiculos et in plcxu cerebri clioroideo cinciiino; in iride antror- iin coronu?, rotrorsum plicula;; in lento crystallina crista;; in niembrana vasculosa rebri fimbria;; in mcmbiaua iiarium pituitariu caiicello—iSom/H. loco cil. toni. 1). 78.