THE TEMPORAL BONE. 5.5 riorly by a small quadrilateral surface, covered with cartilage in the recent state for its articulation with the jugular process of the oc- cipital bone (165) ; between this facet and mastoid process, there is a hole, named stylo-mastoid {fbramen stylo-mastoidewn), which terminates the Fallopian aqueduct, and transmits the facial nerve from the interior of the cranium. Before this aperture, and a little to the inside, there is observed a slender, elongated and pointed process, descending obliquely forwards : this is the styloid process* (processus styliformis) ; it gives attachment to the stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and to the stylo-max- illary and stylo-hyoid ligaments. This process, in early age is not imited to the rest of the bone, but is then articulated to the pe- trous process by the intervention of a cartilage; its base is em- braced by a bony lamina, called the vaginal process (vagina pro- cessus styliformis), which forms the posterior limit of the glenoid cavity ; this process is deficient internally. 178. Such are the various objects presented by the lower sur- face of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is separated, from the upper surface by a very short edge, which is articulated with the sphenoid bone (118), and is not very distinct on account of its irregularity ; from the posterior, by an unequal edge, in which there is posteriorly a notch, frequently divided into two portions by a small bony plate (165), concurring with the occipital bone to form the foramen lacerum posterius. At the middle of this edge is a triangular aperture, which is the external opening of the aque- duct of the cochlea; internally this edge is connected with the oc- cipital bone. 179. The summit of the petrous process is very uneven, ob- liquely truncated, and sometimes partly formed by a wormian bone; a portion of the circumference of the foramen lacerum me- dium belongs to it; lastly, it presents the internal orifice of the carotid canal, (canalis caroticus), which is stUl more uneven ih its margin than the outer, and varies much as to its form in different subjects. This canal gives passage to the internal carotid artery, with several small nerves. At its commencement, it is directed vertically upwards, then bends, and proceeds horizontally inwards and forwards toward the internal orifice. 180. The Aqueduct of Fallopius, whose commencement we have already pointed out in the bottom of the internal auditory ca- nal, and which we have seen terminating in the stylo-mastoid fora- men, is a narrow canal, remarkable for its length, which transmits the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves. Immediately after Its commencement, it ascends outwards and backwards, to the up- per part of the petrous process, where it is perforated by the hia- tus Fallopii; it then proceeds directly backward over the cavity of ■ This process varies ranch in appearance; Soemmering describes it as being " nnnc orevior, nimc pollice longior, nunc procerior, nunc curvatior, nunc plus, nunc mi. nus tortus vel nodosus, nunc acutior, nunc obtusior "