269 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. OF THE LEVATOR LABII INFERIOUIS. (^Levator Mentl) 935. Tliis muscle is situated between the two deprcssorcs labii inferioris. It is short, thick, and conical. It is attached by its summit to the fossa observed on the side of the symphysis of the chin, under the alveoli of the incisors, where it presents a small tendon. Its fibres diverge from this point, and are inserted into the skin of the chin, to which they strongly adhere, and where they produce the small hollows that are generally observed on that part. 936. It is covered above by the mucous membrane of the mouth ; internally is separated from that of the opposite side by cellular tissue ; externally, it is contiguous with the depressor labii inferi- oris and orbicularis oris ; below, it lies upon the jaw, and is cover- ed anteriorly by the integuments. 937. It raises the chin, and pushes the under lip a little up- wards. Its upper fibres also serve to invert the lip. 938. Like the depressor labii sviperioris this muscle is dissected, by everting the under lip, and raising the mucous membrane on the side of the fraenum. OF THE BtTCCINATOR. 939- The Buccinator, of which the cheek is especially formed, is much larger in glass-blowers and persons who play on wind in- struments than in other individuals. It is flat, thin, and quadri- lateral, and is situated in the interval between the two alveolar borders. It is attached above to the posterior part of the upper alveolar border, from the last tooth to the second small grinder; below, to the same part of the lower alveolar border ; in the mid- dle, to an aponeurosis which descends from the summit of the in- ner wing of the pterygoid process, and which receives on the other side fibres from the constrictor pharyngis superior. From these different origins the fleshy fibres proceed toward the commissure of the lips, but following different directions : the upper descend- ing, the lower ascending a little, and the middle fibres passing ho- rizontally forwards. They all meet at the commissure, where a marked interlacing takes place between the upper and lower, the former passing into the under lip, the latter into the upper, where they are confounded with the fibres of the orbicularis oris. 940. This muscle is covered by an extremely thick layer of fat, without which the cheek would appear hollow, and which even forms in the middle of the latter a sort of ball, appearing as if se- parated from the neighbouring parts. By tlais fat, its external