336 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. face is covered by the opponens minimi digiti; the outer corres- ponds to the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle. It carries the little finger outwards. OF THE EXTEUNAL OR DOUSAI. INTEIIOSSEI. 1241. The first is the largest of the interossei. It is of a triangular form, thin, and flat, and arises along the outer edge of the second metacarpal bone, and from the upper half only of the inner edge of the first, as well as from the ligaments which connect these bones with the trapezium. Between these two origins, there exists, superiorly, an interval through which the radial artery passes. The two fasciculi which arise from them unite afterwards 'into a single one, which terminates in a tendon partly attached to the outside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx, partly to the extensor tendon of the index. Its posterior surface is covered by the skin ; the anterior by the first lumbricalis, the flexor brevis and abductor poUicis, and by the skin. It draws the fore-finger outwards, and the first metacarpal bone inwards. 1242. The second dorsal interosseous muscle has the form of a triangular prism. It arises from the whole inner side of the se- cond metacarpal bone, behind the origins of the first palmar in- terosseous muscle, from which it is only separated by a very thin cellular line, and from the whole outer side of the third bone of the same region, as well as from the ligaments which connect these bones with each other and with the neighbouring bones. Its up- per ewtremity is perforated for the passage of an artery. The lower is terminated by a tendon, which, like the preceding, is at- tached to the outer side of the first phalanx of the middle finger, and of its extensor tendon. Its posterior surface, which is very broad, is covered by the skin and the tendons of the extensor musclei? of the fore-finger, as well as by an aponeurosis which passes from the second metacarpal bone to the third. The ante- rior surface is very narrow, and concealed under the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis. It carries the middle finger outwards. 1243. The third dorsal interosseous muscle has the same form as the preceding. It arises from the inner side of the third meta- carpal Ijone, and from the posterior part of the outer side of the fourth, as well as from the ligaments by which they are connect- ed. At its upper part it is bifurcated for the passage of an ar- tery. Below, it terminates, like the others, in a tendon which is attached to the inner side of the upper extremity of the first pha- lanx, and of the extensor tendon of the middle finger. Its posterior surface is covered by the skin and tendons of the common ex- tensor of the fingers. It carries the middle finger inwards. 1244. The fourth dorsal interosseous muscle is triangular and prismatic, and arises from the whole inner side of the fourth meta- carpal bone, and from the posterior part of the outer edge of the