AIITICULA.TIOMS OF THE SUPElllOll EXTIIEMITIES. 20!) it is covered by some oblique and irregular fibres. It passes from ths ulna to the radius, fdriuing between tlieiu a very loose cul-de- sac, and from the latter bone is reflected over the upper surface of tiic preceding libro-cartilage. The quantity of synovia which it contains is always very great. WIUST JOINT. 674. This articulation, which is formed by the junction of the hand and fore-arm, is an arthrodia. The inferior extremity of the radius enters peculiarly into the formation of this articulation, of which the ulna forms but a small part. This inferior extremity of the radius, separated into two surfaces, and the inferior surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage, constitute a transversely elliptical ca- vity, into v/hich is received a convex surface, inclined backwards, formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones : the two first of these bones correspond to the radius, and the third to the fibro-cartilage, which separates it from the ulna. All the bony sur- faces of this articulation are covered by pretty thick diarthrodial cartilages, and a very distinct synovial membrane occurs in its in- terior. It is strengthened by four ligaments. 675. EMernal Lateral Ligament, (Ligamentum radiate articu- li radio-carpalis). It descends from the summit of the styloid process of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid bone. Its fibres are divergent; the anterior, which are longer than the others, are continuous with the annular ligament of the carpus, and extend as far as the trapezium. It has a rather irregular form, but it is very strong. 676. Internal Lateral Ligament, {Ligamentum cubitale articur- li radio-carpalis). From the summit of the styloid process of the ulna, it passes obliquely inwards and forwards to the inner side of the cuneiform bone, where it is attached. It sends some of its most superficial fibres to the anterior annular ligament of the car- pus and to the pisiform bone. It is thicker and less broad than the preceding, 677. Anterior Ligament, {Ligamentum carpi palmare). It arises from the fore part of the lower extremity of the radius and of the styloid process of that bone, and descends inwards, to be at- tached to the fore part of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, but principally to the semUunar. Its fibres, which are scarce- ly apparent at the lower part, are united at the upper into narrow and parallel bands; they form a sort of membrane which presents small apertures for the passage of vessels, and is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. 678. Posterior Ligament {Ligament7mi carpi dorsale). It is narrower and less strong than the anterior ligament, but its fibres are winter and more distinct. It arises from the posterior part of tile lower extremity of the radius, and descends obliquely inwards