ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. elongated, a little flattened, very thick and somewhat square be- low, slender, and terminating in a point above. It divides, as it ascends, into a great number of fleshy tongues, ending in tendons, which form two distinct rows, one externally on the side of the sacro-lumbalis, the other internally along the vertebral column. The tongues of this latter row, which are larger than the others, and more distinct in the back than in the loins, have tendons so much the longer and more slender the higher they are, and are at- tached, to the number of twelve, to the transverse processes of the vertebrae of the back. The tongues of the second row, on the con- trary, are thinner, flat, and so much the longer and less fleshy the higher they are; they are in number eleven, eight, or seven, and are attached to the lower edge of as many of the upper ribs, near their articulation with the transverse processes. This attachment to the ribs takes place by means of small flat and almost aponeu- rotic tendons, particularly thin below, in which direction they are more distant from the articulation than above. Frequently, the longissimus dorsi sends a thin, slender elongated tendon, which ascends towards the neck and sometimes reaches the head,* or is confounded with one of the complexi or with the splenius. 835. The internal surface of the longissimus dorsi covers the semispinalis dorsi and multifidus spinae, and is in contact with the complexus and transversalis colli; the external is contiguous to the sacro-lumbalis ; the anterior is applied upon the levatores cos- tarum, the ribs, the transverse processes, the posterior costo-trans- verse ligaments, the dorsal vessels and nerves, and a portion of the external intercostal muscles; lastly, the posterior surface corre- sponds to the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus and transversa- lis of the abdomen, the inferior and superior serrati, the aponeuro- sis which goes from the one to the other, the latissimus- dorsi, trapezius, rhomboideus, and splenius. 836. The Sacro-lumhalis is elongated, thick, pyramidal, more developed below than above, separated from the longissimus dorsi merely by an adipose line, and directed somewhat obliquely from below upwards and from within outwards. The fleshy fibres of the sacro-lumbalis which come from the common mass, that is to say, from the posterior part of the iliac crest and from the aponeurosis, ascend almost vertically and termi- nate at the six last ribs by five, six, or seven flat tendons, which are inserted below the angle of these ribs. Twelve other small internal, elongated, slender tendons, so much the shorter and thicker the lower they are, arise from above the angle of all the ribs. Each of them gives rise to a fleshy bundle, which is confounded with those in its vicinity, after having ascend- ed obliquely upon the angle of the ribs ; these bundles continue the body of the muscle, which, without them, would cease at the • Hlorgngni. Adv. Anat. IT. p. 3S.