34}^ ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. to the superior and anterior spinous process of the ileum, they are ahnost horizontal. The posterior fibres terminate by short aponeu- roses, at the lower edge of the cartilages of the eleventh, tenth, and ninth ribs, where they are confounded with the intercostal muscles in their interval; and the others are distributed along the middle lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, (1252). Lastly, the fleshy fibres which rise from the crural arch, descend inwards, and also terminate in the same lamina. About eight lines from the summit of the inguinal ring, the spermatic cord passes under them, and is accompanied through the ring by some of their fibres, under the name of Cremaster muscle. I'his disposition is observed only in the male. 1258. The internal oblique is covered in its outer surface by the external oblique, and posteriorly by the latissimus dorsi. Its in- ner surface is apphed upon the sacro-spinalis and transversus abdo- minis. 1259. It has the same uses as the preceding. 1260. The external oblique is to be removed to show the inter- nal, by detaching the digitations of the former from the ribs, and crest of the ileum, and cutting through the superficial lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ileum, towards the linea alba. The external ohlique is then to be dissected off downwards and forwards, in the direction of the fibres of the internal oblique. That part of the abdominal aponeurosis, below the incision from the spinous process to the linea alba, is to be thrown downwards to show the lower fibres of the internal oblique and the origin of the cremaster, also the inguinal canal. OF THE TRANSVERSALIS ABDOMINIS. 1261. This muscle is nearly of the same form as the last de- scribed, and situated behind it. It arises above from the inner surface of the cartilages of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and -tenth ribs, by digitations which are interlaced with those of the diaphragm ; then from the greater part of the lower edge ef the eleventh and twelfth, by very distinct tendinous fibres; inferiorly, from the three anterior fourths of the inner lip of the crest of the ileum, to the inside of the obliquus internus, and from the two outer thirds of the crural arch, by short aponeurotic fibres. At the mid- dle, its fleshy fibres arise from an aponeurosis which proceeds back- wards, dividing into three lamina?, the anterior of which is very thin, and passes before the quadratus lumbovum to be attached to the base of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; the middle lamina, which is thicker, glides behind this muscle, before the common origin of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, to terminate at the summit of the same processes ; while the third or posterior lamina, which is confounded with the aponeurosis of tl\e