PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. arthrodia in two places, with the superior surface of the calcancuin. We have ahready described these surfaces; the posterior are much larger than the anterior, which constitute an articulation common to them with that of the scaphoid bone and astragalus. All these surfaces are invested with cartilage. Three ligaments and a syno- vial membrane are observed here. 744. Interosseous Ligament, [Ligamentum astragalo-calcaneum interosseuni). This ligament, which is narrow and flattened in- ternally, and thick externally, is composed of a great quantity of fibres, the external of which are longer than the internal; these fibres are concealed in a mass of adipose tissue, although they are very dense and close. It is attached below to the calcancum, in an uneven and oblique depression, which separates its two arti- cular surfaces, and ascends from thence to a similar groove, which the astragalus presents at its lower surface. 745. Posterior Ligament, (Ligamentum astragalo-calcaneum posterius). It is confounded in a great measure with the sheath of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis, which covers it, from which it is however distinct. It is formed of a few parallel fibres, which direct themselves obliquely inwards from the posterior part of the astragalus, to be attached to the neighbouring part of the calcaneum. 746. External Ligament. This is a round fasciculus, with dense fibres, which descends parallel to the external lateral liga- ment of the articulation of the fibula with the tarsus, from the base of the external articular surface of the astragalus, to the outer sur- face of the calcaneum. It is not described by authors. The lateral ligaments of the articulation of the tibia with the tarsus also strengthen the union of the astragalus and calcaneum. 7'^7- Synovial Membrane. Very loose and separated poste- riorly from the tendo Achillis by a great quantity of fat, it invests the posterior cartilaginous surfaces of the two bones, and is more- over, prolonged a little backwards over a portion of the calcaneum, which does not belong to the articulation. In certain cases, the anterior articular surfaces of the calcaneum and astragalus are divided into two orders, and then the posterior are furnished with a particular synovial membrane, and the ante- rior are the only ones, that are continuous with the articulation of the scaphoid bone and astragalus. ARTICULATION OF THE CALCANEUiM WITH THE SCAPHOID BONE. 748. In this articulation, there is no connexion of surfaces be- tween the two bones; they are merely kept together by two very strong ligaments. 749. Inferior Ligament bcttveen the Calcaneum and Scaphoid Bone, {Ligamentum calcaneo-scaphoideum inferius). It ])resents itself under the form of a flat, very thick, almost Hbro-cartilaginous