639 OF THE PULMONARY VEINS. cellular tissue. It is placed at its left side, and at the end of a course of two inches, at the height of the second dorsal vertebra, it divides into two trunks, one for each lung. These trunks sepa- rate from each other almost transversely, and circumscribe between them and the bronchi, which are above, an irregular rhomboidal space. In their interval, there is seen rising, in the adult, a kind of pretty thick, rounded ligament, seeming to follow the course of the artery itself, and passing from its walls to the concave part of the arch of the aorta- In the fretus, this ligament is a true vessel, which is named the Ductus arteriosus, and transmits to the aorta the blood of the right ventricle of the heart. 2259- The right pulmonary trunk, which is longer and less vo- luminous than the left, passes transversely behind the aorta and vena cava superior, forms an arch which embraces anteriorly the corresponding bronchus (2224) ; gains the lung, and divides into three principal branches. 2260. The left pulmonary trunk passes obliquely before the aorta and below its arch, embraces the bronchus of its side, and divides into two branches only, one for each lobe of the Ivmg. 2261. Once entered into the lungs, the first divisions and the successive ramifications of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchi to their last extremities, multiplying like them, so that there is no part of the organ however small which does not receive twigs from them. At their termination these minute twigs anasto- mose with the roots of the piUmonary veins, and with the bronchial arteries and veins. 2262. The pulmonary artery has the same structure as the aorta, of which we shall speak as we proceed; only its walls are much weaker, and are observed to be collapsed in the state of va- cuity. OF THE rULMONAKY VEINS. (VencB Piilmonares.) .2263. They arise from the extremities of the pulmonary ar- .teries, and are collected into small twigs and branches, becoming successively larger, which accompany the divisions of the bronchi and those of the arteries, it being observed that in general the ve- iious twig is placed beneath, and the arterial above, the bronchial ttwig. At length all the branches of the pulmonary veins unite •into four trunks which leave each lung, two and two, at the middle ^of its internal surface, and penetrate into the pericardium. o-i'^The Superior Right Pulmonary Vein emerges under the .bronchus, directs itself obliquely downwards, and opens into the upper and right part of the left auricle of the heart. The Infv- rior comes from the lower lobe of the lung, and ascends obliquely towards the inferior and right part of the same auricle. They