AUTICLLATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 191 ;avity which receives it, where it is continuous witli tlie intcrvcrtc- iral fibro-cartihigc. It divides the articulation into two parts .vhich have no communication with each other. 614. Synovial Alembranes. It will readily be perceived that ..here must be two in the articulations in which the last mentioned jgament occurs, which naturally separates them from each other, md only permits them to be expanded over the upper or lower half :)f the articular surfaces ; while in the other articulations these nembranes are simple, and cover the whole extent of the articular ;urfaces, being reflected from the one to the other. These capsules rire always indistinct, and contain but a very small quantity of lynovia; in some cases they even seem to be wanting, on account t)f the great thickness of the inter-articular ligaments. URTJCULATIOXS OF THE IIIBS WITH THE TRANSVERSE PROCESSES. 615. These articulations are formed between the tuberosity of ihe ribs, and the summit of the transverse process of the correspond- ing vertebrjE. All the ribs are thus articulated excepting the two ast. Each of the parts mentioned presents a surface covered with thin cartilage, and invested with a small synovial bursa, looser ;-nd more distinct than that of the preceding articulation ; the Dresence of the synovia is also more manifest in it. The ligaments 'fhich concur to keep the parts in their respective situations are aanied as follows. 616. Posterior Costo-Transverse Ligament, (Ligamentum •^•ansversum. externum costarum). This ligament is of a quadri- atcral form and flat, about two lines broad, with close and paral- el fibres, which are a little longer below than above; it arises from he summit of each of the transverse processes of the dorsal ver- 'ebnp, and proceeds nearly transversely outwards towards the non- irticular portion of the tuberosity of the corresponding rib. Its leep-seated fibres are shorter than the others; it is shorter and ifiore oblique in the upper ribs than in the lower: in fact, the last Icscends a little forwards ; that which precedes it is nearly horizon- tal, and the rest are ascending. It corresponds anteriorly to the ^rticu^ation, and posteriorly to the muscles of the vertebral ;roovcs. t)17- Middle Costo-Transverse Ligament, (Lig amentum ver- bids cnstce externum). This ligament is only seen when the rib 8 forcibly separated from the transverse process, and its fibres torn isundcr, or when a horizontal section of these two parts is made, ^^'liile they are still in their natural place. It seems formed of a "ellular substance in which there are perceived some irregular fas- :;icuh of fibres of a reddish colour, which occupy the interval situ- itcd between the rib and the anterior surface of the corresponding nmsvcrsc process.