ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 724 muscle, and there bends inwards, proceeding between the femur, the long and short adductors to the middle part of the thigh. It then diminishes in size, passes through the aponeurosis of the adductor longus, gains the posterior surface of the limb, and divides into two thick branches, one of which enters into the short portion of the biceps femoris, and the other into the semi-membranosus. 2623. In this course, the deep femoral artery gives off, outwards the external circumflex, inwards the internal circumflex, and back- wards the three perforating arteries. 2624. Ewternal Circumjiex Artery. (Art. circumfle.va femoris externa). It comes oft' from the outer side of the profunda, where the latter forms a bend to descend inwards. Its size, although generally rather moderate, sometimes equals that of the trunk from which it comes off. Directed almost transversely outwards, behind the sartorius and rectus femoris, it presently divides into two branches, the one transverse, the other descending. The first turns over the upper part of the femur, to gain the outer and back part of that bone. There it divides into several twigs, some of which ascend in the capsule of the hip-joint, while the others are distributed to the inner surface of the vastus externus to the glutseus medius, glutscus minimus, tensor vagina? femoris, and rectus femoris, muscles. The second branch {ramus descendens longus,) which is much larger, descends along the fore part of the thigh, between the crurjeus and rectus femoris, and divides into several twigs which are lost in their substance. Some of these twigs ex- tend as far as the patella, and anastomose with the superior articu- lar arteries. 2625. Internal Circiimjlew Ai'tery. {Art. circurnflexa interna.) Larger than the preceding, it arises from the very commencement of the deep femoral artery at its inner and back part. It almost im- mediately dives from before backwards, between the pectineus and the united tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, turns over the inner part of the neck of the femur, running along the obturator externus muscle, under the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. It gives several twigs to these different muscles, the parts of gen- eration, and the hip-joint, and arrives behind the neck of the femur, where it divides into two branches. One of these, the as- cending, is smaller, mounts obliquely upon the neck of the femur, before the quadratus femoris muscle, and dives into the digital cavity of the great trochanter, where it loses itself, being distribut- ed to the quadratus femoris, gemelli, and obturator internus mus- cles. The other which is transverse and larger, passes at first outwards, between the quadratus femoris and the femur, and di- vides into two twigs, one of which loses itself in the common origin of the flexor muscles of the leg at the tuber ischii, while the other is distributed to the upper part of the adductor magnus. 2626. Upper Perforating Artery. It is larger than the other two, and arises from the back part of the profunda, below the small trochanter. Directed backwards, it passes through the