PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 188 ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORAX. STEKNO-COSTAL ARTICULATIONS. 604). We already know, that the first seven ribs are the only ones whose cartilages are directly articulated to the sternum ; these articulations may therefore be divided into two orders ; that of the True or Sternal Ribs, in which little motion is allowed, and that of the False or Asternal Ribs, in which the motions are more distinct. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARTILACiES OF THE TRUE RIBS WITH THE STERNUM. 605. The inner extremities of each of these cartilages (95) pre- sent a surface which is lodged in one of the small cavities placed upon the lateral edges of the sternum (80), and which, like these edges, is invested with a slight layer of cartilage, the surface ol" which is not very smooth. Two radiated ligaments, the one an- terior, the other posterior, strengthen this species of arthrodia. A very close, and extremely thin synovial membrane, furnished with but little synovia, covers the articular surfaces; it is not in gene- ral easily perceived, but is a little more distinct in the two or three upper articulations than in those which follow, excepting, however, the first, in which there is an absolute continuity of substance be- tween the costal cartilage and the sternum. This capsule is con- nected before and behind with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the articulation, and is moreover strengthened, above and be- low, by some irregular fibres. 606. There almost always occurs, in the articulation of the second of these cartilages, a fibrous fasciculus which proceeds from its projecting angle to the retiring angle of the sternal cavity, and which divides this articulation into two parts, which renders two synovial membranes necessary. 607- Anterior Ligament. This ligament is broad, thin, mem- branous, triangular, and composed of fibres which proceed in a radiating manner from the inner extremity of the cartilage, to be expanded over the anterior surface of the sternum, where they are interlaced with those of the ligaments of the opposite side, and of those situated immediately above and beneath, with the periosteum of the bone, and with aponeurotic fibres of the pectoralis major. The direction of the fibres of this ligament is such, that the upper fibres pass obliquely upwards, the lower obliquely downwards, and the middle fibres horizontally ; they arc not all of the same length, the superficial being longer than the deep-seated, which are shorter the nearer they are to the joint. From the mutual in- terlacing of the fibres of all the anterior ligaments, there results a membrane of considerable thickness {membrana stcrni anterior), 4