OF THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. 651 platysma myoides and the skin ; but it presently sinks under the hypoglossal nerve and the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and lastly under the parotid gland. Internally, it is in relation below with the internal carotid artery, at the middle with the stylo- pharyngeus and stylo glossus muscles, and above with the styloid process of the temporal bone. 2303. The branches which this artery furnishes may be dis- tinguished into those which arise from its anterior part, which are three in number, viz. the Superior Thyroid, Lingual, and Facial Arteries; those which come from its posterior region, which are two in number, viz. the Occipital and Auricular Arteries; that which issues from its inner side, the Inferior Pharyngeal Artery ; and, lastly, those by which it terminates, the Temporal and the In- ternal Maxillary Arteries. OF THE SUPEEIOll THYROID ARTERY. (Art. Thyreoidea Superior.) 2304. It arises from the fore part of the external carotid very near its origin, and even sometimes opposite to it, then descends inwards and forwards towards the side of the larynx, where it changes its direction, and proceeds almost vertically downwards to- wards the summit of the corresponding lobe of the thyroid body, where it arrives after describing different sinuosities, which vary in different subjects. In this course it is covered from without in- wards, by the platysma myoides, omo-hyoideus, and sterno-thy- roideus muscles, to which it gives some small ramifications, which go to the skin and neighbouring muscles, as the sterno-cleido-mas- toideus, sterno-hyoideus, thyro-hyoideus, and constrictor pharyngis medius. 2305. Laryngeal Branch. Towards the upper part of the la- rynx, the superior thyroid artery furnishes this branch, which directs itself transversely behind the thyro-hyoideus muscle over the thyroid membrane, gives the latter, and the muscles of the hyoid bone, some small twigs, which anastomose with those of the opposite side, and traverses it in company with the internal-laryngeal nerve of the pneumo-gastric (1705). On entering the larynx, this twig bifur- cates. One of its branches throws itself into the crico-arytenoi- deus lateralis, and crico-thyroideus muscles ; the other winds around the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and loses itself in the crico-ary- tenoideus posticus muscle. Both unite with those of the opposite side, and send a great number of ramifications over the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane of the larynx. 2306. C rico-thyroid Branch. A little smaller than the preced- ing, it descends obliquely inwards over the thyroid cartilage, gives twigs to the tl;yro-hy()ideus muscle, and passes transversely over the crico-thyroid membrane, at the middle of which it anastomoses