PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 212 short and close fibres, is much more visible on the inside of the ar- ticulation than externally. It consists of several oblique and pa- rallel fasciculi, which, arising from the three first bones of the first row of the carpus, cUrect themselves inwards and backwards, to ter- minate on those of the other row. 690. Posterior Ligament. This ligament varies much as to size and direction. Like the anterior, it is formed of several fibrous fasciculi, which arise from the posterior part of the bones of the first row to terminate on those of the second. This and the preceding have the same relations as the ligaments of the radio-carpal articu- lation, with which they seem to form a fibrous membrane envelop- ing the whole carpus. 6'91. Synovial Membrane. It covers the surface by means of which the two rows of the carpus are in contact, and moreover fur- nishes two prolongations which proceed upwards between the three first bones of the first carpal row to the interosseous ligaments; it also sends oH' three inferiorly, which descend between the four bones of the second carpal row, to invest the surfaces of the articulation of the carpus with the metacarpvis, and of the superior metacarpal articulations, terminating between the latter in some culs-de-sac. It occasionally leaves the articular surfaces: thus it entirely covers the neck of the os magnum behind; it also lines the inner surface of the ligaments of all the articulations, between which it establishes a communication. In certain parts of its passage, this membrane presents small adipose grains and prominent red dots, analogous to the synovial fringes. If we except the pisiform bone, a single sy- novial membrane therefore is common to all the surfaces by wliich the bones of the carpus are articulated together. 692. LigamentH of the Pisiform Bone. They are two in num- ber, and are very strong and distinct. They arise from the lower part of the pisiform bone, and are situated in a plane much anterior to that of the other ligaments of the carpus. One is external, and goes to the process of the unciform hone; the other, which is in- ternal, separates from the preceding, and terminates at the upper part of the fifth metacarpal bone. They complete the channel in which the tendons of the flexors of the fingers pass, and are in part incorporated with the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and abduc- tor minimi digiti, which, conjointly with them, keep the pisiform bone in its place. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARPAL WITH THE METACARPAL BONES. ARTICULATION OF THE FIRST METACARPAL BONE WITH THE TRA- PEZIUM. 693. This articulation is an arthrodia. We have already de- scribed its surfaces (465—470), which are covered with a cartila-