ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. twigs to the cellular tissue of the .sphenoid bone and the Kdstachi- an tube. It sometimes arises from the spheno-palatine. 2363. The Superior Palatine Artery. Much larger than the two last, it separates from the internal maxillary behind the sum- mit of the orbit, descends vertically in the pterygo-maxillary fis- sure, and enters the posterior palatine canal. Before entering, it furnishes three or four twigs which penetrate into the accessory palatine canals, and issue from them on the tuberosity of the same name to be distributed to the velum palati. With respect to the trunk itself, after leaving its canal, it is reflected from behind for- wards between the membrane and vault of the palate, lodged in a particular groove of the latter. In this course, the artery is very flexuous, and furnishes a great number of twigs to the mu- cous membrane and follicles of the palate. One of these twigs ascends to the nasal fossaj by the anterior palatine foramen. 2354. TJie Spheno-Palatine Artery. This may be considered as the terminating branch of the internal maxillary artery. It pro- ceeds through the spheno-palatine foramen to the posterior part of the superior meatus of the nasal fossae (356), beneath the pituitary membrane of which, it divides into two or three principal twigs ; but frequently this division takes place previously, in the spheno- maxillary fossa itself. One of these twigs is distributed to the septum of the nasal fossae ; the others lose themselves around the ethmoidal turbinated bone, in the superior and middle meatus, the maxillary sinus and the posterior ethmoid cells. Their ramifica- tions anastomose with those of the ethmoid arteries, and give a deep red tint to the pituitary membrane, on account of their great number and sviperficial position. or THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. (Carotis interna seu cerehralis.) 2355. It separates from the external behind the digastricus muscle, entei's the space which exists between the ramus of the inferior maxilla and the pharynx, and ascends a little inwards be- fore the vertebral column, becoming deeper and deeper as it ap- proaches the skull, into which it enters by the carotid canal. It is accompanied externally by the internal jugular vein, internally by the pneumo-gastric nerve, the superior cervical ganglion and the twig by which it communicates with the middle cervical gan- glion. It is connected with these different parts by a loose and filamentous cellular tissue. It forms at first a curve whose con- vexity rests upon the vertebral column ; near the skull it presents another having its convexity directed dowuAvards, and sometimes a third whose convexity is outwards. These flexuosities are ex- tremely variable, and very rarely found the same in two sub-