376 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. of the external head of the gastrocnemius, from which it is sepa- rated by a synovial capsule, and divides into three ])ortions: the outer, which is thin and narrow, ascends obliquely backwards and outwards upon the synovial capsule of the knee joint, which it con- tributes to strengthen, and is attached above the outer condyle of the femur; the middle portion, which is broad and thick, is at- tached to the back part of the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and sends a very distinct a])oneurotic exptmsion over tlie popliteus; the inner portion, which is larger and rounded, descends from be- hind forwards over the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and is in- serted into it. It is contained by a fibrous sheath which is lined by a very delicate synovial membrane. 1392. Its posterior surface is covered by the biceps and semi- tendinosus, and by the fascia lata. The anterior covers the quadra- tus, from which it is separated by a bursa mucosa, the adductor magnus and internal head of the gastrocnemius, the popliteal artery, and the knee joint. Its outer edge is accompanied by the sciatic nerve, and concurs with the biceps to form the cavity of the ham. The inner edge is partly covered by the gracihs and the fascia lata. 1393. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. 1394. The biceps, scmitendinosus, and semimembranosus muscles arc exposed, first by removing the skin covering the fascia lata of the back part of the thigh, then dissecting the latter off from the surface of the muscles in question, which are stretched by bending the thigh on the pelvis and extending the leg. MUSCLES OP THE LEG AND FOOT. Anterior Region of the Leg. OV THE TIBIALIS ANTICUS. 1395. The tibialis antieus is a long, thick, fleshy muscle, of the form of a triangular prism above, slender and tendinous below. It arises from the external tuberosity and upper half of the outer surface of the tibia by short aponeurotic fibres, from the upper and fore part of the interosseous Ugament, from an aponeurotic parti- tion which separates it from the extensor digitorum, and from the upper part of the inner surface of the aponeurosis of the leg. From these origins it descends obliquely inwards and forwards, becoming at first a little thicker and then diminishing ; when it has arrived below the middle third of the leg, it terminates by a flat and pretty strong tendon, which existed for a long time among the fleshy fibres, and upon their anterior surface, into which they are inserted like the barbs of a feather into its shaft. This tendon de- scends before the anterior extremity of the tibia, passes over the ankle joint, is engaged in a sort of groove of the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus, where it is invested by a small synovial