OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 693 2473. Anterior Twigs. Very short and small, they are en- ttirely destined for the lumbricales muscles. . 2474. Posterior Twigs or Perforating arteries, (Art. per^ fforantes). They are three in number. At their commencement, tthey pass through the corresponding interossei muscles, and go to lanastomose on the back of the hand, with the twigs of the dorsal aartery of the wrist (21G7)- . 2475. The deep palmar arch terminates, toward the inner edge oof the hand, by anastomosing with a branch of the ulnar artery, liunder the flexor brevis and opponens pollicis muscles. OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 24?76. The Ulnar artery (Arteria ulnar is seu cubitalis) is Harger than the radial, and descends at the anterior and inner part lof the fore-arm, from the bend of the arm to the palm of the hand, lit is at first directed a little obliquely inwards, and enters between ttwo layers of the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, whose direction lit slightly crosses. At the middle part of the fore-arm, it becomes vvertical and emerges from beneath the muscles, in the place where tithe flexor digitorum sublimis muscle separates from the flexor carpt ulnaris. It preserves its direction as far as the pisiform bone^ where it is nearly as superficial as the radial artery. It then bends ooutwards, passes over the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, aand forms in the palm of the hand the superficial palmar arch. The ulnar artery, in this course, is a little flexuous. Its upper ppart describes a slight curve, of which the convexity is directed iinwards and backwards. 2477- Its anterior side is covered above, at first by the median nnerve, afterwards by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, pal- nmaris longus, flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris lanuscles, Inferiorly, it is in relation with the aponeurosis and siskin, from which it is separated only by the lateral projections I of the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris. In the hand, it i-is entirely concealed beneath the palmaris brevis and palmar apo- aneurosis. 2478. Its posterior side is applied, from above downwards, upon |tlthe brachialis internus, flexor digitorum sviblimis and pronator qquadratus muscles, the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the tendons of the two flexor muscles of the fingers. 2479. Its inner side is accompanied by the ulnar nerve and flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. It corresponds below to the pisiform bone. I 2480. Its outer side is applied upon the flexor digitorum sub- lilimis. 2481. Anterior Ulnar Recurrent Artery, (Art. recnrrens td- »mri$ anterior). It arises from the inner side of the ulnar artery, " lat its commenGement, and descends at first a little outwards between