THE CRANIUM IN GENKllAL. 287- From each extremity of the basihir suture there is seen arising a line which separates the petrous process of the temporal bone, and the sides of the basilar process of the occipital, and af- terwards the latter bone from the temporal. From being at first concave, and directed outwards and forwards, this hne becomes afterwards straight, and proceeds directly backwards when it has arrived at the middle part of each condyle of the occipital bone. The first part of this line is named the Petro-occipital suture {Sutura petro-occipitaUs), while the name of Mastoid suture (Su- tura mastoidea) is applied to the second portion, which slightly arises to meet the extremity of the squamous suture, and which in general presents neither distinct indentations nor supernumerary bones. The petro-occipital suture is a true groove, deep and pretty wide, in which the bones are not in immediate contact, but present an intervening thin layer of cartilage. 288. From the angle formed by the union of the mastoid and squamous sutures, there arises another suture, with very distinct denticulations, which separates the occipital from the parietal bones, and which is named the Occipito-parietal, or Lambdoid su- ture {Sutura lamdoidalis). It ends at the corresponding point of the opposite side, and gives rise, in its middle part, to an acute angle projecting forwards, so as to form the two sides of a triangle, having its base directed downwards. In general there are nume- rous wormian bones in this suture; and of all the sutures of the cranium, this has its denticulations most distinctly marked. 289- Another longitudinal suture, which separates the two pa- rietal bones, and is named the Sagittal {Sutura sagittalis), arises from the angle formed by the last described. It presents distinct indentations, and is sometimes traversed posteriorly by the parietal hole. It falls upon the middle of the coronal suture, and is then continued, sometimes in adults, and always in children, into an- other longitudinal suture, which divides the frontal bone into two equal parts. A large wormian bone of a quadrilateral form fre- quently occupies the place of this union. 290. The last-mentioned suture, designated by the name of the Median or Frotital, {Sutura frontalis), is generally indistinct, and occurs much more frequently in children than in adults; it ends at the nasal spine of the frontal bone, where it is continued on each side into a line formed by the ethmoidal notch of that bone, as it joins the ethmoid, and which afterwards terminates at a right angle in the sphenoidal suture, under the name of Ethmoidal Suture, {Sutura etiimoidalis). It is in it that the internal orbitar forami- na occur. 291. The sutures which, as we have said, are formed by the mutual connexion of the bones of the cranium, are not so lixed and determinate as not to present considerable variations. It is not the case, however, that their number is greater in females than in males, as has been asserted by some of the older anatomists. In