92 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. only on one side, and situated between the fovainen rotundum and foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone , it gives passage to an emis- sary vein of Santorini, and has been particularly pointed out by Vesalius, on whieh account it is named by some anatomists the Foramen Vesalii. 314. The third plane is perforated in its middle part by the occipital hole, whose orifice is wider here than on the outside of the cranium ; before it are observed the /lasilar (jrnove, formed by the occipital and sphenoid bones, and the basilar suture, which sepa- rates it transversely into two portions, 'i'his groove has on its sides two longitudinal depressions which lodge the inferior petrous sinuses; it corresponds to the annular protuberance of the brain and the transverse sinuses of the dura mater. It is terminated above by the quadrilateral plate which limits the sella turcica, and ])resents, before terminating, and on each side, a small notch for the ])assage of the external oculo-muscular nerve. Behind the occipital hole is the internal occipital ridge, bifurcated at its lower j)art; on its sides, are observed the anterior condyloid foramina, the inner orifice of which is less raised than the outer^ which are ])crforated in their course by several small canals which transmit vessels to the diploe of the occipital bone, and surmounted by a slightly projecting bony arch ; and two very deep fossa;, formed by a large portion of the sphenoid bone, the posterior surface of the petrous process, and the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone. In the bottom of these fossae, is seen the mark of the mas- toideal and petro-occipital sutures, which would be continued in the same direction were they not separated on each side by the foramen lacerum posterius; this hole is smaller on the inside of the cranium than on the outside, and presents at its upper part the triangular orifice of the aqueduct of the cochlea, which is closed by the dura mater in the recent state. It is frequently observed, that on the right side the foramen lacerum posterius is much larger than on the left; the reverse takes place, though rarely; and some- times their diameters are equal. 315. A channel which lodges the lateral sinus of the dura mater arises from the foramen lacerum posterius behind, and proceeds to the inner occipital protuberance. Descending slightly at first, it mounts behind the base of the petrous process, and then proceeds in a horizontal direction to the point where it terminates; it is formed above by the occipital and parietal bones, in the middle by the temporal, and below by the occipital again. The posterior condyloid foramen, which present many variations as to number, size, and direction, opens upon it near the jugular fossa, and the mastoid hole perforates it behind the petrous process. The latter liole is frequently nothing but the orifice of a canal which passes in a very oblique manner through the substance of the temporal hone, and is wider on the inside of the cranium than on the outside. It is also frequently more distinct on the one side than on the