ORGANS OF SENSATION. 488 1737. Phrenic Nerve. It terminates the cervical plexus infe- riorly, and receives its principal filament from the anterior branch of the fourth cervical nerve. Most commonly it is joined with a very slender branch which comes from the third, and two or three \ which escape from the brachial plexus, and only join it at the lower part of the neck, or even in the thorax. Sometimes its volume is i augmented by a twig of the descendens noni, or of the plexus which I terminates it, and by a lilament of the superior cervical ganglion. Thus formed in a more or less variable manner, difficult to describe with precision in the inextricable interlacement which forms the plexus, the phrenic nerve descends along the fore ! and lateral part of the neck, between the rectus capitis anticus major and scalenus anticus, then over the anterior edge of the lat- ter, giving off some delicate filaments to them. At the lower part ' of the neck, it commxuiicates with the inferior cervical ganglion by one or two other filaments, then penetrates into the thorax between the subclavian artery which is behind, and the subclavian vein which is before, and proceeding inwards, forwards and downwards, crosses the internal mammary artery and enters the anterior me- diastinum ; there, it sends ramifications to the thymus gland. It then passes over the trunks of the pulmonary vessels, and ghding before the root of the lung, descends as far as the diaphragm between the pleura and the lateral parts of the pericardium, to which it is closely attached, without however supplying any filament either in it or to the lung. The phrenic nerve of the right side, which is more vertical, and placed more anteriorly than the left, divides before entering the diaphragm, into six or seven filaments which separate from each other and communicate frequently together. They first spread out ramifications upon the upper surface of the muscle; then the in- ner filaments, closely connected with the vena cava inferior, pass by the aperture which gives passage to that vessel, to its inferior surface, to which they are partly distributed, partly also losing themselves in the coeUac plexus. The other filaments, which are longer and directed forwards, backwards and inwards, perforate the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, accompanying the diaphragmatic arteries and veins, and send several filaments to anostomooC with the cceliac plexus and the stomachic filaments of the pneumo-gas- tric nerve. The left phrenic nerve, which is posterior to the preceding, turn- ing over the apex of the heart, and consequently longer also than it, furnishes ramifications to the convex surface of the diaphragm, perforates it, after being divided into several filaments, is partly expanded over its concave surface, partly over the oesophagus, and gives anastomosing filaments to the solar and coeliac plexuses. It also furnishes filaments to the crura of the diaphragm and to the supra-renal capsules, and sends ^ome to anastomose with those of the opposite nerve. i i • It is not uncommon to sec the terminating twigs of the phrenic