ORGANS OF CIRCULATION^ G9G OF THE ULNAR AKtERY IN THE PALM OF THE HAND. 2490. Superficial Palmar Arch, (Jrcus superjitialis voice). When the ulnar artery has passed the pisiform bone, it descends at first vertically before the anterior annular ligament of the wrist^ then bends ovitwards in the palm of the hand, to form this arch, of which the convexity is directed downwards. Towards the up- per extremity of the fourth metacarpal bone, it communicates with a branch of the radial artery. The concavity of this arch gives off but very few twigs, which are distributed to the lumbricales muscles and annular ligament. But its convexity generally furnishes four larger branches, which arc called the Digital Arteries. The first of these digital arteries descends obliquely inwards upon the muscles of the little finger, to which it gives ramifica- tions, and whose direction it crosses at right angles. It is after- wards placed upon the inner edge of the little finger, and reaches as far as its extremity. The other three branches descend in the interosseous spaces to the heads of the metacarpal bones, where they divide each into two twigs, thus, the second divides into the digito-radial artery of the little finger and the digito-ulnar of the ring-finger ; the third into the digito-radial of the ring-finger and the digito-ulnar of the middle finger ; and the fourth into the digito-radial of the .mid- dle finger and digito-ulnar of the forefinger.* They anastomose by an arch with each other, in the substance of the pulp of the fingers, and give off in their course a great number of twigs, which are distributed to the tendons and sheaths of the flexor muscles, the periosteum of the phalanges, the ligaments by which they arc united, and especially to the integuments. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH ARISE FROM THE THORACIC AORTA. 2491. They are distinguished into those which come from its anterior part and those which issue from its sides. Branches which the Thoracic Aorta gives off Anteriorly. 2492. Of the Bronchial Arteries (Art. hronchiaks). There are commonly two, a right and a left. The right arises from the aorta itself, or, which is more common, from the first intercostal artery. * There is sometimes another artery wliich tlividcs.iiito a digilo-nulial hrancli for Ihe forciinger, and u digito-ulnar for tlio tlinml);