79 STRUCTURE OF THC TEETH. dora tooth. Lastly, from the first tootli to tlie last on each side the part exposed beyond the alveoli and gums, diminishes also. STRUCTUIIE OF THE TEETH. 270. The teeth appear to be formed of a harder, and more com- pact bony tissue, than any that enters into the composition of the other parts of the skeleton. The part of them which rises above the alveoU is covered with a still harder layer, having a vi- treous aspect, to which the name of Enamel is given. The bony •portion of the teeth, or the Ivory, forms a v£ry dense mass, which constitutes the whole of the root and the centre of the crown, and which is less brittle and more tenacious than the ena- mel. By chemical analysis, it gives nearly the same results as the other bones, with the exception of some traces of fluate of Hme ; yet its tissue never contains areolae or medullary cellules, and whatever may be the size of the tooth, neither vessels nor injec- tions can penetrate into it. Its fractured surface is commonly silky or lustrous like satin; there are perceived in it, although with difficulty, concentric fibres, which seem parallel to the surface of the tooth ; it strongly resists the action of the air, and it is well known that in sepulchres which are discovered after a long series of ages, the teeth are found untouched in the midst of the skeleton now converted into dust. Once formed, this substance is perfect, and undergoes no sensible change. The enamel of the teeth is of a milk-white colour, and is hard enough to strike fire with steel; its surface is extremely smooth, and polished; if it be separated from the bony portion, it loses part of its lustre, becomes semitransparent, and seems to present a fibrous texture. The layer which it forms is thicker in the places where the teeth rub upon each other, and much thinner toward the alveoli; seeming to terminate gradually toward the neck, as may be especially seen in the incisors. Hunter observed that its fibres are straight and radiated toward the summit of the crown, where they seem to converge towards the axis of the tooth, while toward its base they become more and more curved, and sometimes even cross each other's direction. The fibres of the enamel are perpen- dicular to the surface of the tooth, and consequently have a direc- tion the reverse of that of the fibres of the bony portion ; for which reason, when seen with the microscope, they have the appearance of velvet. They are also laid very close together, and are con- nected by one of their extremities to the bony portion, from the surface of which they seem to rise. By the action of caloric, the enamel blackens, on account of its containing a small quantity of gelatine, but more slowly than the bony portion; it then cracks and at length melts, if the tempera- ture IS elevated to a high degree. It dissolves in nitric acid.