126 PASSIVli ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. insertion of the costo-clavicular ligament, and at the middle a lon^ gitudinal groove, where the hole is observed that gives passage to the nutritious vessels of the bone, which receives the fibres of the ; Kubclavius muscle ; at its outermost part there is a prominent ridge, running obliquely from within outwards, and from behind forwards, to which are attached the coraco-clavicular ligaments. Its ante- rior ed(je is broad and convex in its inner half, where the pectoralis j major is inserted, narrow and concave in its outer half, to which the | deltoid muscle is affixed. Its posterior edge, which is thick, con- , cave, smooth, and rounded internally, gives attachment, externally, where it is uneven and convex, to the trapezius. 437. Sternal or Internal Eoctremify. This extremity is in- clined downwards and forwards, and is considerably thicker than f the rest of the bone. There is observed upon it a triangular, broad, uneven surface, covered with cartilage, to be articulated with a nar- rower surface, which we have already mentioned as occurring at the upper extremity of the sternum (78). Ligaments are attached all round its margin, and its lower and posterior angle is much more \ prominent than the others. 438. Acromial or External Extremity. It is more elevated than the preceding, rests upon the coracoid process, * and incUnes backwards and upwards. It is articulated to the acromion by a narrow surface, oblong from behind forwards, incHned obliquely 1 from above downwards, and from without inwards, and covered with 1 cartilage. Like the preceding, it is perforated with numerous small t vascular apertures. ^ 439- Structure. The body of the clavicle is composed of a thick layer of compact tissue externally, and of a spongy tissue i with large areoljE internally; but no traces of a medullary canal are perceived in it, as in the other long bones, unless occasionally in extreme old age. The extremities are principally formed of cel- lular tissue, and covered by a thin plate of compact tissue. The canal of the nutritive vessels is very narrow. 440. Development and Articulations. The clavicle, whit l makes its appearance at a very early period in the foetus, commence its development by a single point of ossification for the body; bu 1 at a more advanced period, when that part has nearly acquired it i full size, there is formed at each extremity an osseous crust, whic I ultimately unites with the rest of the bone. It is articulated to th I sternum and scapula. • It does not rest directly on the coracoid process, being separated from it by tl coraco-clavicular ligament; bnt 1 have a preparation in my collection in which tl' I coraco-clavicular ligament had in all probability been wanting, as the clavicle at tl! I place articulates witli the root of the coracoid process by broad and well mark ' j surfaces- ll