685 OF THE SUB-SCArULAJl AllTEIlY. Branches which the Axillary Artery gives off' in the Axilla and upper part of the Arm. OF THE SUB-SCAPULAR ARTERY. 24'3G. The Sub-Scapular Artery {Art. infrascapularis), is of considerable size, and comes off from the lower part of the axillary artery, opposite the lower edge of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, and behind the brachial plexus. Immediately after its origin, it gives off three or four pretty large branches which pro- ceed transversely either to the lymphatic ganglia of the axilla, or to the subscapularis muscle. It then descends obliquely along the lower edge of that muscle, and presently divides into two con- siderable branches, an inferior and smaller, and a superior and larger. 2437- Inferior Branch. It descends vipon the subscapularis muscle, and along the anterior edge of the scapula, as far as the lower third of the latter, between the latissimus dorsi and serratus magnus muscles, and in the midst of cellular tissue. It divides in- to a very great number of twigs, all of large size, which are ex- panded partly in the middle and inferior portions of the serratus magnus, and partly in the latissimus dorsi and integuments of the back. Some of them run along the edge of the scapula and turn over its inferior angle, to anastomose posteriorly with twigs of the superior branch, and of the transverse cervical artery. 2438. Superior Branch, {Art. dorsalis scapulce). It runs ho- rizontally from before backwards, first between the latissimus dorsi and subscapularis, teres major and minor, and then between the triceps extensor and subscapularis muscles, to turn over the ante- rior edge of the scapula. At its commencement it gives a re- markable twig to the latissimus dorsi, near its tendon, and throws some small twigs into the subscapularis, teres major and teres mi- nor muscles. After turning over the edge of the scapula, it enters into the fossa infra-spinata, where it divides into two twigs. One of these twigs, which is superficial and smaller, glides between the skin and aponeurosis of the infra-spinatvis muscle ; while the other, Avhich is deep and much larger, passes under the teres minor and infi-a-spinatus muscles, and is distributed in their substance by three or four large secondary twigs. One of them ascends under the acromion to enter into the fossa supra-spinata, and goes to an- astomose with a branch of the supra-scapular artery. OF THE CIHCUMFLEX ARTERIES OF THE HUMERUS. 2439. The Posterior Circumjlcv Artery. Less voluminous than