ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4.56 band; sometimes they are not even on the same level. They soft and destitute of neurilema, and break with the greatest faci.J lity. 1640. They unite almost immediately into a single, very thin J rounded, strong cord, -which descends outwards and forwards, turns over the crura cerebri, between the cerebrum and cerebellumj passes above the arachnoid membrane and along the small circum- ference of the tentorium cerebelli, and arrives at the posterior cli- noid process. There it enters a canal which the dura mater furJ nishes it (1561), is abandoned by the arachnoid membrane, which! is reflected over the latter, and is separated internally from the caJ vernous sinus by the thin cellular lamina which also separates thej preceding from it. From being at first horizontal and placed be- neath the latter and above the ophthalmic branch, it changes itsl direction near the sphenoidal fissure, and ascends obliquely above! the third pair along with the ophthalmic branch, on the inner side of which it proceeds. It then penetrates into the orbit through the Avidest part of the sphenoidal fissure, passing through the dura mater. On arriving in the orbit it proceeds forwards, along with the frontal twig of the ophthalmic nerve, above the rectus oculi superior and levator palpebrae superioris, and beneath the perios- teum. Lastly, it directs itself inwards, passes into the middle part of the obliquus oculi superior, after sensibly increasing in size, and terminates entirely in it, dividing into several filaments. OF THE NERVES OF THE FIFTH PAIH, OR TRIFACIAL NERVES. (Nervi quinti cerebri). 1641. The first origin of these nerves occurs at the medulla ob- longata, between the olivary and restiform bodies. It is a bundle of white fibres which ascends outwards in the substance of the ce- rebral protuberance, above the posterior part of the pons Varohi (1512), receives in this course a considerable number of new white fibres, is thus increased in size, and seems henceforth divided into three branches. Arrived at the outer and lower part of the crura of the cerebellum, near the outer edge of the protuberance, it be- comes free, leaves the encephalon, and forms a large flat cord, com- posed of a great number of distinct and parallel filaments, envelop- ed each with a neurilema which gives them more solidity and den- sity. 1642. On examining all these small nervous filaments with great care, it is seen that those occupying the centre of the cord, receive the neurilema later than those situated at the circumfe- rence. There results from this that they must break at unequal distances; hence it is that on detaching the trunk of the trifiicial nerve from the place where it becomes free, there occurs on th(' surface of the brain, at the point which it occupied, a sort ot