OllGAN^ bf AbSdRPtlON. 770 OF THE THORACIC DUCT. {Ductus thoracicus sinister). 2830. This canal, in which terminate all the lymphatic vessels which we have hitherto examined, as well as many others, com- mences upon the body of the third lumbar vertebra, by the suc- cessive union of five or six very large trunks, themselves resulting from the assemblage of all the absorbent plexuses of the abdomen. At the union of all these trunks, near the aortic aperture of the diaphragm, the thoracic duct almost always presents a remarkable dilatation, which is called Receptaculum Chyli {Reservoir of Pec- quet, or Cisterna Chyli), and which is placed behind the aorta, at the anterior and left part of the second lumbar vertebra. Above this enlargement the thoracic duct ascends into the chest, between the crura of the diaphragm, with the aorta on its left side and the vena azygos to the right. It contracts as far as the sixth dorsal vertebra, after which it inclines to the left, becomes sensibly dilated, and ascends behind the arch of the aorta to the left sub- clavian artery, on the inner side of which it is placed on the longus colli muscle. It then arrives at the seventh cervical vertebra, bends inwards and downwards, passes behind the left inferior thyroid artery and the internal jugular vein, and opens quite close to the latter, into the posterior part of the subclavian vein of the same side. Its aperture is furnished, internally of the vein, with two valves, which prevent the blood from passing from the vein into the duct. Sometimes the thoracic duct is straight in its whole extent, but it is more frequently flexuous. In many subjects it divides into several branches, which afterwards unite, forming a kind of islands between them. It frequently separates into two or three trunks at its termination.* OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH THE THORACIC DUCT RE- CEIVES IN THE THORAX. 2831. Several lymphatics of the liver and ganglia surrounding the coeliac artery ascend into the thorax by the aortic aperture of the diapliragm, and empty themselves into the thoracic duct at a greater or less heights 2832. Iritercostal Lymphatics. They arise in the external muscles of the thorax and intercostales, and at first pass through ( I once saw it divide into two brandies, one of wliicli followed the ordinary course, wliile tlie other went to discharge itself into the right subclavian vein, cl0S6' to the great Ijinphatic vein of the same side.