67 OF THE INFERIOll TURBINATED BONRS. tuitary membrane, and is frequently inclined to the right or left, or even perforated in the middle. 221. This bone has four edges. The first, or Sphenoidal Edge, which is the uppermost, is the thickest part of the bone, and is cUvided into two laminte, {alee vomeria), which enter into the grooves on the guttural aspect of the sphenoid bone, (114), and which receive into the cavity formed by their separation, the ros- trum situated between these grooves. The surfaces of this articu- lation never unite in substance, because there exists between them, under the sphenoid bone itself, and under its turbinated bones, to which the vomer here forms some attachment, a smaU canal which always transmits vessels and nervous filaments to the substance of the ethmoid bone. 222. The Supra-palatine edge of the vomer is inferior, and is the longest. Broad, obtuse, and uneven anteriorly, "thin and sharp posteriorly, it is received into the groove which exists between the united maxiUary and palate bones, as we have already said, (201 and 211.) 223. Its guttural or posterior edge, which is free, thin below, thick and bifurcated above, is either straight or notched; it sepa- rates the two posterior apertures of the nasal fossae. 224). The ethrroidal or anterior edge, is marked in its whole extent, or at least in its upper half, by a deep irregular channel, which receives the lower edge of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone above, and the cartilage of the septum naris below. This channel is continued into that of the sphenoidal edge. Some- times it is wanting, and then the cartilage slightly overlaps the vomer on each side. 225. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The vomer IS thin, compact, and transparent in almost its whole extent, and presents some traces of cellules at its upper part only. It origi- nates by a single centre of ossification, which is composed of two laminae. It is articulated to the maxillary and palate bones, to the ethmoid and sphenoid, also to the turbinated bones of the latter. OF THE INFEllIOR TURBINATED BONES. 226. Form. The Inferior Turbinated Bones, (ossa spon- gwsa, sen ossa turbinata inferiora, seu conchas inferiores), are of a very irregular form, elongated from behind forwards, rolled up upon themselves, wrinkled at their surface, and differently formed m different individuals. Each bone is suspended over the inner surface of the upper maxillary and palate bcines of each side, in the nasal fossae, where it determines the limits of the middle and interior meatus. Its inner or nasal aspect is convex and pro- minent, especially in the middle : it is covered by the pituitary membrane, reticulated and traversed in its whole length by two arterial furrows. Its outer or tnaxillary aspect, which is smoother