MUSCLES OF THE FOUE-AllM. pretty fur upon the outer edge of the muscle. The Heshy fibres arise from this tendon, and follow different directions. The upper, which are very short, and continuous with those of the triceps, are nearly transverse, and terminate by short aponeuroses at the out- side of the olecranon. The others, which are longer and more oWique the lower their position is, are inserted, also by short apon- euroses, into the upper fourth of the posterior edge of the ulna, and form a pretty sharp point below. 1198. The posterior surface of the anconeus is merely covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, without adhering to it. The anterior is apphed upon the articulation of the fore-arm, the an- nvdar ligament of ithe radius (668), the supinator brevis and the ulna. 1199. It contributes to the extension of the fore-arm upon the arm, or to that of the latter upon the former. Deep Radial Region of the Fore^arm. OF THE SUPINATOR BEEVIS. 1200. This muscle is broad, thin, and triangular. It embraces the head of the radius. It arises from the outer condyle by a broad and thick tendon, firmly united to the common tendon, of which we have spoken (1187), from the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint, from the annular ligament of the radius, and by pretty distinct aponeurotic fibres, form a longitudinal ridge which is observed upon the posterior surface of the ulna. Its commenc- ing tendon expands over the outer surface of the fleshy fibres, which are shorter and nearly vertical before, longer and more ob- hque the more posterior they are, and are all twisted round the ra^ dius, to the fore, outer, and back part of which tliey are attached by very distinct aponeuroses, deeply concealed in their substance. 1201. Its outer sicrface, which is convex, is covered anteriorly by the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles, and by the radial nerve and vessels ; in the middle, by the radial extensors ; posteriorly, by the extensor muscles of the fingers, extensor pro- prius minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris and anconeus. Its hi^ ner surface is applied upon the outer part of the elbow joint, and of the upper articulation of the radius and ulna, upon the ulna, the interosseous ligament, and the radius. Its posterior edge covers the upper part of the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor se- cundi internodii poUicis. The anterior is notched above for the passage of the tendon of the biceps flexor, and is covered below by the pronator teres. These two edges unite, forming an acute an- gle, which is attached to the outer side of the radius, above the in- sertion of the latter muscle. 1202. The supinator brevis turns the radius upon its axis from before outwards, and brings the hand into supination.