ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOR E^JTIiEMITIES. ^205 061. External Lateral Ligament (Liffatnentuni laterale exter- num ciihiti). This ligament, ^vhich is not very distinct from a tendon common to the muscles situated at the posterior surface of the fore-arm, and almost confounded with that of the supinator brevis, consists of a short fibrous fasciculus, flat, triangular and ver- tical, broader below than above, and applied upon the synovial cap- sule of the articulation. Its tipper extremity is attached to the ex- ternal tuberosity of the humerus ; the lower, loses itself in the an- nular ligament of the radius, and seems to bifurcate to be equally divided between the anterior and posterior parts of that ligament. Some of its posterior fibres pass over the annidar ligament, and after mingling with the posterior ligament, are inserted into the outer edge of the ulna. 662. Internal Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum laterale inter- num C7ihitij. Tliis ligament is longer, broader, and stronger than the preceding, and like it is of a triangular form. But it is formed of two distinct bundles ; the anterior of which is attached to the internal tuberosity of the humerus, and terminates on the inside of the coronoid process of the ulna, concealed by the tendon common to the anterior muscles of the fore-arm, and applied upon the syno- vial membrane. The other fasciculus, which is posterior, is form- ed of a great number of radiated fibres, which, also proceeding from the internal tuberosity of the humerus, are inserted into the inner part of the olecranon, and connected internally with the triceps extensor and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and with the ulnar nerve, while externally they strengthen the synovial membrane. 663. Anterior Ligament (Ligamentum accessorium anticum). This is a thin, irregular membrane, varying in its form, and com- posed of obhque fibres, separated from each other by intervals fill- ed with cellular tissue. It covers nearly the whole articulation an- teriorly. Its superficial fibres, which are very numerous, pass from the internal tviberosity of the humerus to the annular ligament of the radius, with which they are incorporated; the middle fibres, which are vertical, arise from the humerus between its two tuberosities, and are lost among the preceding; the deep fibres, which are also vertical, are collected into isolated fasciculi; they proceed from the coronoid cavity of the humerus, and gradually disappear upon the synovial membrane. The anterior surface of this ligament is co- vered by the tendon of the brachialis internus ; the posterior is in connexion with the synovial membrane, and with a mass of reddish and very vascular cellular tissue, which fills up the coronoid cavity. 664. Posterior Ligament. (Ligamentum accessorium posti- cum). This ligament can only be well seen when the fore arm is bent upon the arm, and is much weaker than the anterior. It is formed of two separate fascicuH. One of these, which is internal, 1.S nearly parallel to the posterior fasciculus of the internal lateral ligament, and ascending from the summit of the olecranon, is in- serted mto the inside of the pulley or trochlea of the humerus, and the edge of its olccranal cavity. The other fasciculus, which is