ORGANS OF SENSATION. 538 other, more or less voluminous, but varying as to number and form. They communicate with them by short filaments, which es- cape from all points of their circumference; these secondary gan- glia themselves send to each other and in all directions a multitude ; of small twigs, and even sometimes seem to be continuous with each other, leaving always between them areolae more or less wide and irregular. 1912. It is this assemblage of ganglions and interlaced and an- astomosing filaments that constitutes the Solar Plexus. This vast nervous net-work, lying upon the vertebral column, the aorta and the crura of the diaphragm, and concealed by the stomach anteri- orly, by the liver and diaphragm above, and by the pancreas be- low, is so irregular in its form that an adequate idea of it cannot be conveyed in words. The ganglia and filaments of which it is composed are soft and reddish. It is strengthened by several twigs from the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and by some filaments only from the left. It appears essentially destined for the aorta, being distributed to all its divisions, and following its branches with a corresponding number of secondary 'plexuses, which are as follows. SUB-DIArilRAGMATIC PLEXUSES. 1913. They proceed from the upper part of the common plexus, and are destined to accompany the inferior diaphragmatic arteries. They are composed of only a very small number of filaments which run beside each other, without presenting the numerous anasto- moses which we find in the other abdominal plexuses. Some of them lose themselves in the flieshy fibres of the diaphragm. Otheris accompany the arterial twigs to a great distance; while several, especially to the right, anastomose with the phrenic nerves, (I737). CffiLIAC PLEXUS- 1914. This is nothing else than an inferior prolongation of the solar plexus upon the tripod of the coehac artery. It is a true con- tinuation of it, and furnishes three very remarkable secondary! plexuses, which accompany the coronary artery of the stomach, and hepatic and splenic arteries. Many filaments of the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves especially terminate in it, and it also receives some from the last thoracic ganglion. It presents a considerable number of ganglia itself, which vary as to form and size. 1915. Coronary Plexus of the Stomach. Smaller than the two following, it embraces the artery near its origin by a circle of small gangha. These ganglia, which are very numerous at first, become less frequent as they advance, so that at the place where tlic artciy bends to gain the small curvature of the stomach, tin