ORGANIZATION OF THE NOSE. .581 2054. Of the Cartilages of the apertures of the Nose. It is very difficult to .tletermine their size and form. In general, however, they represent an ellipse truncated posteriorly. They are curved upon themselves, presenting the appearance of two branches, an inner and outer, meeting at an angle. By their union, they constitute, anteriorly, and on each side, a more or less distinct prominence, separated by a groove from that of the oppo- site side. The outer, which is directed a little upwards and back- wards, terminates in the latter direction by an extremity rounded' at the point, which loses itself in the membraneous tissue by which it is connected with the lateral portions of the preceding cartilage.' It is covered externally by the triangularis muscle and the integu- ments ; internally, by the pituitary membrane. The internal branch, which is contiguous to the septum, forms, anteriorly, part of the inferior extremity of that part. It is hori- zontal, and sometimes situated a little lower than the first. Lined externally by the mucous membrane, and contiguous internally and posteriorly with the cartilage of the septum, it approaches that of the opposite side internally and anteriorly, and is connected with it by a loose cellular tissue never containing fat. Rather broad before, this internal branch terminates posteriorly in a point. It is its contiguity with that of the opposite side that gives the sep- tum of the nose the thickness which it presents inferiorly. 2055. Of the Cartilages of the Wings (f the Nose. In some subjects they are continuous with the external branch of the pre- ceding ; their disposition is very irregular, and their form very, liable to vary. Placed in the posterior parts of the wings, near their union with the cheeks, they are of inconsiderable size, and often divided into several distinct and isolated nuclei. They seem immersed in a kind of fibrous membrane which fixes them to the preceding cartilages, the lateral cartilages of the nose, and the concave rim of the maxillary bone. 2056. These four cartilages are thin, and allow a certain degree ' of mobility to the lower part of the nose. They are enveloped bv a thick perichondrium, which adhei-es intimately to them. Their ' elasticity is great. Of "fHE NASAL FOSS.E INVESTED fiY TIlElR MEMBRANES. 2057. When these cavities are examined in a head of which the I soft parts have not been removed, their form is found very diff'er- I ent from that which we have described at page 102 et seq. All I those inequahties, grooves, and small eminences which we have 1 pom ted out, are no longer seen. The meatuses, under the form J of three longitudinal channels, Hmited by the three turbinated « nf'^u^*^-^ °" ^^^^ ''"^y "^^"^^^ ^^^^^ recognised. ; Still the mferior edge of the turlnnated bones descends much low- ' er tlian in the dry head, because a membrane whicli invests them,