OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. •which they follow, accompanying the circumflex iliac vessels as far as one of the external iliac ganglia. 2820. Lumbar Lymphatics. Their roots, which are extremely numerous, commence in the quadratus lumborum, obliqui and transversus abdominis muscles, and in the interior of the vertebral canal. The trunks which result from their union accompany the lumbar arteries, pass between the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, divide into several ganglia placed between the transverse processes, and arrive before the vertebral column, where their nu- merous anastomoses, united with those of almost all the other trunks which we have hitherto examined, constitute the Lumbar Lymphatic Fleams. OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. 2821. Lymphatics of the Intestines. These vessels are com- monly called Lacteals or Chyliferous vessels, on account of their conveying the chyle from the intestines to the thoracic duct. The name however is inappropriate as they are intimately mingled with other lymphatic vessels, whose roots are distributed in the substance of the coats of the intestines, while theirs open at the inner surface of the same tubes. Both also follow the same course, only that the deep ones, {the Lacteal Vessels properly so called), are transversely extended upon the intestine, while the superficial run in the direction of its length and parallel to its axis. After anastomosing and crossing each other a great many times, they gain the mesenteric and mesocolic ganglia, divide and subdivide to infinity, at their level, and at length arrive at the commencement of the thoracic duct. It is observed that the number of lacteal vessels is much greater in the course of the small intestine than any where else. Along tlie ccecum, ascending colon and arch of the colon, they are already in much smaller number. The descending colon and rectum present only a few common lymphatics which go to the lumbar and hypo- gastric ganglia, or those of the mesorectum. 2822. Lymphatic Vessels of the Stomach. They are disposed in two planes, a superjicial, situated beneath the peritoneum, and a deep plane, spread out between the muscular and mucous coats. They may also be referred to three distinct orders. Some of them, arising upon the large extremity of the stomach, descend to the left along the vasa brevia (2528), and join the lymphatics of the spleen. Others direct themselves along the small curvature of the sto- mach, and divide in the ganglia, which occur there. They then collect on the right side of the cardia to bend upon themselves to the right, pass through some other ganglia, and unite with the inferior lymphatics of the Uver, under the lobulus Spigclii. After this, they descend along with them behind tlie pancreas, and at- tain the roots of the thoracic duct.