OF THE OS NAVICULARE AND OS CUBOIDES. 155 » OF THE OS NAVICtJLAUE. 520. The Os naviculare (os scaphoides tarsi),* occupies the . middle and inner part of the tarsus, and is of an oval form, having ! its o-reatest diameter directed obliquely downwards and inwards. ! lts%iterior surface, which is convex and smooth, is formed of three \ facets, the uaner of which, directed forwards and a little inwards, is i broader below than above, to be articvilated with the first or inter- I nal cuneiform bone ; while the middle surface, which looks direct- 1 ly forwards, and is broader above than below, meets the second or ; middle, and the outer, which is nearly square, and inclined forwards : and outwards, articulates with the third or external; they are se- parated from each other by rather indistinct angular Unes. The posterior surface of the os naviculare is concave and smooth, and '. articulates with the head of the astragalus. Its circumference is rough and convex at the upper, outer, and lower parts, and pre- sents many impressions of ligaments. Externally, it is sometimes furnished with a small surface .which articulates with the os cu- boides. At its lower part internally, it is surmounted by a promi- nent and uneven tubercle, into which the tendon of the tibialis pos- ticus is inserted. OF THE OS CUBOIDES. 521. The Os Cuboides is situated at the anterior and outer part of the tarsus. It is of a cubical form, as its name implies; although it is in reality somewhat longer and thicker internally than to the outside. Its upper surface, which is covered by the extensor bre- vis digitorum pedis, is flat and rough ; it looks outwards, and gives attachment to ligaments. The lower surface is divided into two parts by an eminence directed obliquely forwards and inwards, which gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and which separates two depressions, the posterior of which is broader and rough, and also affords insertion to the fibres of this hgament, while the anterior is a true oblique groove in which slides the tendon of the peroneus longus. Its anterior surface is inclined a little outwards, and is formed of two distinct surfaces, the inner of which is square, and articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone, while the outer, which is triangular, is joined to the fifth. Its750.9- terior surface, which is concave from above downwards, and con- vex transversely, is articulated with the calcaneum. The cnder is very narrow ; there is seen upon it the commencement of the groove which extends over the lower surface, and which forms in this place a sort of pulley for the reflection of the peroneus longus. Lastly, the inner surface, at its posterior part, which is uneven and rough, gives attachment to ligaments, and in some cases presents a small • nnvhmla, u boat.