ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 314 twio aponeuroses : the outer broad and tliin, with longitudinal and parallel fibres, arises behind the muscle, towards its middle part, and sends downwards a fibrous prolongation to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm ; the inner, which is narrower but thicker, descends in the substance of the muscle from the point of junction of its three portions, after liaving even extended for some time along the anterior surftice of the lower part of the middle portion. 1145. Besides the fleshy fibres furnished to it by each of the three portions, the common bundle receives a great number of others, which arise along the lower third of the posterior surface of the humerus, to near the olecranal cavity, and descend obUquely backwards upon the anterior surface of the tendon. The outer side of the tendon and of its aponeurotic origins serves for the in- sertion of several others, wliich come from about the lower fourth of the outer edge of the humerus, where they leave between tliem a small aperture for the passage of the musculo-spiral nerve, and its accompanying vessels, and which appear to form a particular mus- cle, separated from the rest of the outer portion by a line of cellular tissue. They are short, have little obliquity, and are even almost transverse below, where they are parallel to the superior fibres of the anconeus. Lastly, at its inner part, this same tendon is also furnished with fleshy fibres which come from the lowest part of the inner edge of the humerus. 1146. The posterior surface of the triceps extensor is convex, and covered above by the teres minor and deltoid, and in the rest of its extent, by the brachial aponeurosis and the skin. The ante- terior surface covers the sub-scapularis, teres major, andlatissimus dorsi, above. It is united to the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint by cellular tissue. At its lower part, it is in connexion with the posterior surface of the humerus, to which it is attached, ex- cepting at the place where the musculo-spiral nerve and the colla- teral vessels pass. Lastly, at its lowest part, it is applied upon the posterior surface of the elbow joint. 1147. The triceps extensor acts in opposition to the biceps and brachialis internus, extending the fore-arm upon the arm, and in certain circumstances the arm upon the fore-arm. When the fore- arm is extended, its long portion carries the arm backwards. It may also sometimes move the scapula upon the humerus. 1148. The muscles of the arm are dissected by removing the superjacent skin and aponeurosis, moving the scalpel in the direc- tion of their fibres, and placing the arm in such a position, that the muscle which is being dissected may be on the stretch, thus, for the muscles of the fore part of the arm, the arm should be bent towards the scapida, and the fore-arm extended ; for the muscles of the back part of the arm, the opposite position is necessary.