OF THE MIDDLE CAPSULAR ARTERIES. 707 two branches, one of which ascends as far as the arch of the colon, and anastomoses with the left branch of the superior right colic- artery (2531), while the other descends in the iliac mesocolon, and there inosculates with the ascending branch of the middle left colic artery. 2542. Middle Left Colic Artery, {Art. colica sinistra media.) It often arises from the preceding, and is sometimes wanting. It directs itself towards the first curve of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and there divides into two branches, one of which ascends to form an arch with the descending branch of the superior left colic artery, while the other unites with one of the branches of the inferior left colic. 2543. Inferior Left Colic Artery, {Art. colica sinistra inferior.) It directs itself towards the middle part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and also separates into two branches. The upper as- cends to form an arch with the preceding. The lower descends to unite with one of the twigs furnished in the meso-rectum by the inferior mesenteric artery. ' 2544. These left colic arteries, on arriving at the intestine, ex- hibit precisely the same arrangement as those of the right side (2534) ; that is to say, after forming arclies to which succeed some areolae, they send, over the two surfaces of the colon, twigs at first parallel, and afterwards divided a great number of times. 2545. After furnishing the three left colic arteries, the inferior mesenteric gives off some small, and in all respects very irregular arteries, and presently after divides into two branches, which de- scend along the posterior surface of the rectum, and which are called the Superior Hoemorrhoidal Arteries, (Art. hcsmorrJioidales superiores seu internee J. These two arteries, from being at first superficial, soon after conceal themselves in the layer of longitu- dinal fleshy fibres of the intestine, progressively diminish in size, and end by very minute twigs, after giving ofi" laterally a great number which embrace from behind forwards the circumference of the rectum, and anastomose on its fore part with each other and with the middle and inferior hasmorrhoidal arteries. Some of them leave the rectum upon its sides, and go to communicate with the lateral sacral arteries. Branches which are given off" laterally by the Abdominal Aorta. OF THE MIDDLE CAPSULAR ARTERIES. [Art. capsulares medicB.) 2546. These arteries, which are two in number, one on each side, are called middle, to distinguish them from those which the phrenic above, and the renal below, send to the supra-renal capsules.