OF THE SPINAL MARROW IN PARTICULAR. 419 many physiologists have, with more reason, considered the nervous system, in its collective capacity, as a net-work of which all the portions participate in the organization and functions of the whole, and not as a tree divided into branches and twigs. This is Dr. Gall's opinion; but he thinks moreover that the gray matter is the matriv of the medullar 1/ filaments. Wherever it exists, it arises from these filaments. Whenever a medullary bundle traverses the cineritious matter, it is enlarged by the filaments which the latter gives it, and none of these bundles enlarges without the concurrence of that matter. He regards the spinal marrow, not as a bundle of nerves descending from the brain, but as a compound of cineritious substance, which bulges opposite each pair of nerves, and gives rise to the white filaments which are to form it by their aggrega- tion. He also demonstrates that the brain and cerebellum are themselves only developments of bundles coming from the spinal marrow, to which are annexed otlier masses of white fibres proceed- ing from the gray layer which envelopes the hemispheres. Lastly, he compares this latter to the ganglia diffused through the whole body ; and, according to him, it forms in the brain several of these gangUa which we shall presently describe. 1525. These two substances of the brain do not form a pulpy mass disposed at random. Besides the shades of colour which they present, they are seen in certain places to affect determinate forms, always the same in different individuals, and very regular. They are seen to form eminences, cavities, laminas, partitions, &c. all differing in their volume, position, tint, consistence, &c. Most commonly, for the purpose of studying these different parts, hori- zontal, oblique, or vertical sections are made of the brain and ce- rebellum, which are repeated at different heights. But in -this manner, the true relations which they have to each other, and their intimate structure, escape us. In fact, with a little attention, we come to discover that all of them direct themselves toward certam common points of origin, and that they are nowhere isolated from each other. We shall therefore follow a particular method in the study of the brain considered as to its interior, and this method ■will be the result of the combination of the different modes hitherto employed in the dissection of that organ. STRUCTURE OF THE SPINAL MARROW IN PAUTICULAR. 1526. The consistence of the substance which forms the spinal marrow varies much, according to age and some particular circum- stances. In the adult it is generally less firm than the tissue of the cerebral protuberance, but denser than the cerebrum and cere- bellum, although after death it alters much more promptly, and seems to liquefy almost at the moment. This organ ought, there- lorc, to be dissected in very fresh subjects, or in children, in which Its consistence is greater than in advanced age. M. Chaussier has also observed, that in women its softness is greater. 1527. At the exterior, the spinal marrow presents a layer of