408 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1502. The brain is enveloped by three membranes, the outer of which is named the Dura Mater; the middle, the Tunica Araclmoidea ; and the inner, the Pia Mater. OF THE CEREBRUM, OR BRATN PROPER, CONSIJJEIIED WITH REFERENCE TO ITS EXTERIOR. , 1503. The Cerebrum, which is the largest portion of the cen-, tral part of the nervous system, occupies the whole upper part of the cavity of the cranium, extending from the forehead to the su- perior occipital fossos, and resting anteriorly upon the orbitar arches, in the middle upon the middle fossae of the base of the - cranium, and behind upon a fold of the dura mater, named the Tentorium, Cerehelli. Its form is that of an ovoid pretty uni- formly convex above, slightly compressed on the sides, and flat- tened beneath. Its large extremity is directed backwards, which corresponds to the figure of the cranium (306). 1504. There are distinguished in the brain a superior region^ convex and rounded, which corresponds to the bones of the vault of the cranium, and an inferior region, unequally rounded on the edges, flattened in the middle, and moulded upon the base of that cavity. 1505. Upper Surface of the Brain. It presents, in the me- dian line, a deep fissure (fissura longitudinalis) occupied by the Falx cerebri of the dura mater. Anteriorly and posteriorly, this fissure divides the brain in its whole height; but in the middle, it- is limited by a white lamina which is named the Corpus Callo~ sum. There results from this that the organ seems to be sepa- rated by it into two parts, a right and a left: these are the He- mispheres of the Brain, which have each the form of the fourth of an ovoid, are elongated from behind forwards, and present an inner surface, plain and vertical, corresponding to that of the opposite side, seeming continuous below and in the middle with the corpus callosum, on the upper part of which it forms a longitudinal slit, analogous to the ventricles of the larynx, in which branches of ar-. teries are lodged ; and an upper and outer surface^ which is con- vex and rounded. The whole surface of the cerebral hemispheres is remarkable for a great number of eminences, rounded on their edges, flexuous, undulated, penetrating each other by reciprocal inequalities, and having some resemblance to the disposition of the small intestine in the abdomen. These eminences are named the Convolutions of the Brain (Gyri), while the depressions by which they are se- parated are called Anfractuosities or Furrows {Anfractus seu Sulci). The number and size of the convolutions of the brain vary ex- ceedingly : they arc seldom found the same in the two lobes; in indivicluals of the same age, they arc sometimes very large, and