ORGANS OF CIIICULATION. toideus muscle, along the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle and the hypo-glossal nerve. It then passes horizontally between the transverse process of the atlas and the mastoid process, after crossing the direction of the internal jugular vein and pneumo-gas- tric nerve, above which it is situated. It then bends bade upon the occipital bone, covered by the splenius muscle, under the inner edge of which it emerges to become subcutaneous, and ascends in a tortuous manner upon the back part of the head where it termi- nates. 2323. Branches of the Deep Portion. Some of these, which are superior, and of small size, are distributed to the digastricus, sterno-cleido-mastoideus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and commu- nicate with the twigs of the deep cervical artery. One of them, which is larger and more constant than the others, {Posterior Mas- toid Artery,) enters the cranium by the mastoid foramen, and loses itself in the portion of the dura mater which lines the poste- rior and lateral fossse of the base of the cranium. The others, which are inferior, descend in the substance of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, splenius and trachelo-mastoideus muscles, where they anastomose with the ramiiications of the deep cervical and vertebral arteries. 2324. Branches of the Subcutaneous Portion. They are very numerous. The inferior lose themselves in the muscles of the posterior region of the neck, and occasionally extend as far as the back. The superior ascend in a tortuous manner along the course of the lambdoid suture, and ramify in the integuments and occipi- talis muscle, anastomosing with the divisions of the opposite occipi- tal artery, or with those of the temporal and posterior auricular ar- teries of the same side. Frequently one of their twigs passes through the parietal hole, and loses itself in the dura mater. OF THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. {Art. auricularis posterior.) 2325. This is one of the smallest branches of the external caro- tid artery, from which it separates in the substance of the parotid gland, above the digastricus muscle, to extend to the inner surface the auricle and over the side of the head. It ascends at first back- wards, covered by the gland, between the mastoid process and au- ditory canal. On arriving at the lower part of the auricle, it bi- furcates : one of its branches, placed before the other, expands over the inner surface of the auricle, between the skin and the cartilage; the other, which is posterior, passes over the mastoid process, and divides into a multitude of twigs which belong to the temporalis and retrahens auriculam muscles, the epicranial apo- neurosis, the cellular tissue and integuments of the lateral part of the head.