264f ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 899. This muscle is exposed by cutting through the lower fleshy fibres of the frontalis muscle, and throwing them with the upper fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum aside. OF THE I'YIIAMIDALIS NASI. 900. This muscle, which many anatomists regard as an appen- dage of the frontalis, with whose fibres it is interlaced at its upper part, covers the nasal bones. The two pyramidal muscles are k united above, and only separate towards the middle of the nasal i bones, to terminate in a diverging rhanner, in a membranous tissue t rather cellular than fibrous, which occupies the sides of the nose, > and also receives the fibres of the triangularis nasi. Each of ) them is a slender and triangular fasciculus confounded^externally I with the orbicularis palpebrarum. 901. The anterior surface of the pyramidalis nasi is covered ( by the skin ; the posterior is applied upon the corrugator super- j cilii, the frontal bone, the fronto-nasal suture, and the ossa nasi. 902. It contributes very little to the motions of the nose, and t can only serve to give the frontalis muscle a fixed point, at the t moment when it brings forward the integuments of the cranium. < 903. For the dissection of the pyramidalis nasi, make an inci- t sion through the skin of the nose, from its root to its lower and i middle part, then raise the skin carefully. OF THE ORBICULARIS ORIS. 904. This muscle is formed by fibres which exist in the sub- stance of either lip, and by the terminations of the zygomatic!, levatores labii, levatores anguli oris, depressores labii iuferioris, i levatores menti and buccinators, which are interlaced in a very complicated manner, and are incorporated with its proper fibres. These latter correspond to the free edge of the hps ; they are concentric, curved, and divided into two planes, one of which be- longs to the upper, the other to the under hp. Viewed in con- nexion, they present an oval form, and intersect each other at their two commissures. _ j 905. This muscle is covered anteriorhj by the skin, to which it firmly adheres. The posterior surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, to which it is more loosely attached; it is also in connexion with the labial glands. Its free circumference is invested by the red membrane of the hps. Its great circumfe- rence is continuous on all sides with the muscles which we are go- ing to enumerate. Superiorly and in the middle, it is attached by some fibres to the lower part of the septum of the nose. 906. This muscle brings the lips toward each other, and con- tracts the aperture of the mouth, which it carries forward, making