480 ORGANS OF SENSATION. OF THE SI'INAL ACCESSORY NKllVES. (Ne7;vus ad par vagum accessorius.) 1715. The Spinal Accessory Nerves arise from the spinal mar- row in the interior of the vertebral canal, at a more or less consit. derable distance from the skull, and at a height which is not al- ways the same on both sides in the same subject. Their first point of origin generally occurs at the lateral and posterior part of the spinal marrow, above the posterior root of the fifth cervical nerve. Sometimes it is met with lower, that is to say, opposite the sixth or seventh vertebra of the same region, rarely higher towards the second or first. This first filament, which in frequently larger on one side than the other, ascends, either between the two roots of each cervical nerve, or behind them, near the corresponding li- gamentum dentatum. At each origin of these nerves, it increases in volume, new filaments being then added to it. These seem themselves formed by the union of several filaments which issue from the spinal marrow, and direct themselves outwards and up^ wards, being more oblique the higher they are. The last is very near the pneumo-gastric nerve. 1716. Thus formed, the spinal accessory nerve communicates in the interior of the vertebral canal with the first cervical nerve, and sometimes with the second, and enters the cranium by the oc- cipital hole, behind the vertebral artery, without producing a gan- glion, as is asserted. It then proceeds much more outwards and a little forwards, gains the foramen lacerum posterius under the pneumo-gastric nerve, introduces itself into the same canal with it, and is separated from it only by the arachnoid membrane. It even frequently adheres so strongly to it, that they might be taken for a single trunk, and before emerging sends it a pretty considerable filament. 1717- On emerging from the foramen lacerum posterius, the spinal accessory nerve separates from the pneumo-gastric, to ad-* here strongly to the hypoglossal, which it leaves in its turn, to proceed towards the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, passing be- hind the internal jugular vein. It traverses the sterno-mastoideus at its upper third, and passes under the trapezius, in which it is entirely lost. I7I8. The first twig which it gives off in this course is the" largest of all, and presents numerous variations. It appears sole-* ly destined to augment the size of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Aris-- ing in the interior of the fibrous canal which is furnished bv the dura mater, it sends one or two filaments to the pharyngeal twig of that nerve (1704), then passes behind it, adheres intimately to it, and frequently gives a filament to the hypoglossal nerve. Then, arriving beneath the origin of the superior laryngeal twig (1705), it appears to form a ganglion, and divides into several filament*