58 OF THE OSSA WORMIANA. and surmounted externally by an oblique surface, marked with pro- minent radiating striae, which is connected with the upper edge of the temporal bone, forming the squamous suture. The anterior or coronal edge {margo corona/is) is denticulated, and is cut oblique- ly at the expense of its inner table, except to a small extent supe- riorly, where it is at the expense of the outer; it joins the frontal bone (155). The angle which it forms above with the upper edge (angulus frontalis) is truncated in children, and substituted by a membranous part belonging to what is named the Upper Fonta- nelle. The angle formed below by its junction with the lower edge (angulus sphenoideus) is much prolonged downwards and forwards; it is obliquely curved at its summit, and is articulated with the sphenoid bone (124) ; at its internal part, it presents a deep groove, or even a canal, which lodges the middle meningeal artery, and from which proceed almost all the branches by which the inner surface of the bone is marked. At the bottom of this groove, there frequently occur two small holes through which vessels pass into the diploe. Lastly, the posterior or occipital edge {inaryo occipi~ talis) is extremely unequal; its indentations are very irregularly disposed, and retain among them many of the small bones called os- sa Wormii; it is articulated with the upper edge of the occipital bone. The angle which it forms below with the lower edge (an- gulus mastoideus) is truncated, and is articulated to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone; the angle which it forms with the upper edge (angulus occipitalis) is the most obtuse. Internally the angulus mastoideus is hollowed by a portion of a canal which is continuous with that existing on the occipital and temporal bones, for the lodgement of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. 190. Structure and Development. The parietal bone is in ge- neral thin, although somewhat thicker at its upper and back parts, and consists of diploe contained between two compact plates. It is developed by a single point of ossification, which makes its appear-, ance at the parietal protuberance, over a pretty wide extent, and under an areolar form. 191. Articulations. The parietal bone is articulated to that of the opposite side, and to the frontal, occipital, temporal and sphe- noid bones. OF THE OSSA WORMIANA. 192. The Ossa Wormiana (ossa triquetra), yvhich. are extreme-' ly variable as to size, situation, form, number, and other circum- stances, are found interposed between the bones of the cranium ■which have been described. Roundheads scarcely ever present any of them, frequently none at all, whilst, in such as are elongated from before backwards, they occur in great numbers. It is in the sutvu-e between the occipital and parietal bones that they are most commonly met with; some-