(379 OF THE INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY, iinumber of branches to the thymus gland, the sterno-hyoidei and >sterno-thyroidei muscles, and the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia. 2411. Atiterior Mediastinal Artery. It comes off from the up- jper part of the mammary artery, and sometimes from the arch of tthe aorta itself, to descend into the upper part of the anterior me- tidiastinura. At its commencement, it gives some ramifications to tthe portion of the pericardium which surrounds the origin of the aaorta, and presently after divides into two branches. One of these tbranches ascends towards the lower part of the neck, behind the ssterno-thyroideus muscle, and loses itself in the parenchyma of the tthyroid body, anastomosing with the inferior thyroid arteries. The iother, which is larger, continues to descend in the mediastinum, 3 and divides into two twigs which separate from each other, and go tto subdivide in one or other pleura, still sending ramifications to tthe thymus, to the substernal lymphatic ganglia, and to the cellu- llar tissue of the mediastinum. 2412. Superior Phrenic Artery, (Art. comes nervi phrenici i&. pericardio-diaphragmatica.) Although of very small size, it al- iways exists, and comes off from the internal mammary artery op- ] posite the sternum. Directed inwards, backwards and downwards, I between the heart and lung, it exactly accompanies the phrenic I nerve, forming several sinuosities. It furnishes some small twigs I to the fibrous membrane of the pericardium, among which there is I observed one which descends as far as the diaphragm, and there I turns backwards to lose itself upon the oesophagus. It also sends ; some to the phrenic nerve, the thymus gland, the mediastinum, the i internal surface of the lung, and the walls of the pulmonary veins. When this artery has arrived at the middle and fore part of the I diaphragm, it divides into several branches which are consumed : in its fleshy fibres, and anastomose there with the inferior phrenic I arteries. 2413. In its passage behind the sterno-costal cartilages, the in- ternal mammary artery gives off on each side branches which are I distinguished into internal and external. 2414. External Branches, (Art. intercostales anteriores). Their number in general equals that of the intercostal spaces to which the artery corresponds. Their size and length are so much the greater, the lower the intercostal spaces are in which they are examined. They arise opposite the inferior edge of each cartilage, follow it for some extent, and descend afterwards upon the inter- costal muscle, in which most of them are entirely lost, communicat- ing with the twigs of the intercostal arteries. There arc some, however, which perforate the intercostal muscles, and are distribut- ed to the two pectoral muscles, the mamma and the integuments. Sometimes each intercostal space contains two of these branches, one of them following the inferior edge of the cartilage, the other the superior. 2415. Internal Branches. They are so much the larger the higher they are, which is the reverse of the preceding branches.