OF THE SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. ;527 ; sknder filaments, which come from the fourth and fifth cervical I pairs, increase its size a little, and join it at different angles, and J pretty frequently forming small gangliform bulgings. Some other I filaments, still more slender, appear to separate from it internally t to go to the oesophagus and neighbouring cellular tissue. One of I them anastomoses with the external laryngeal nerve of the pneu- ; mo-gastric, and seems to be especially distributed to the thyroid body (I705). Lastly, it sends into the thorax one, two or three twigs, which contribute to the formation of the cardiac plexus. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1878. They are pretty numerous, and very distinct, and lie across the rectus capitus anticus major, more or less separated from each other, and frequently anastomosing in their course. The two upper, which are at first very close to each other, presently bifur- cate each on their own side, and thus anastomose by four points with the nervous arch, which the first and second cervical nerves form around the transverse process of the atlas (1727)- The third is the longest; it also bifurcates; but one of its filaments goes to the anterior branch of the second cervical nerve, and the other to that of the third. The inferior jilaments, which arise from the preceding cord of communication, when the ganglion is very short, send filaments into the scaleni muscles. One of them also divides into two secondary filaments, the upper of which dives between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus muscles, to anasto- mose with the fourth cervical pair, when it leaves the intervertebral hole, whUe the inferior, which is more superficial, goes to unite, at a greater distance, with the anterior branch of the same nerve. Several other of these filaments anastomose, moreover, very fre- quently, and in an irregular manner, with the branches of the cer- vical plexus. It is impossible to describe them separately, their disposition being so much subject to vary. OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. I879. All these filaments are soft, thin, and slender, and ex- posed to still greater variations than the preceding as to number, disposition, anastomoses, &c. It may be stated generally, how- ever, that after distributing several ramifications to the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, they terminate on the larynx and pharynx, whether separately, or united with nerves from the brain. In some subjects, most of these arc furnished by the connecting cord of the first two cervical ganglia, or by the superior cardiac nerve.