OF THE RADIAL ARTERY. 689 : triceps extensor, and there divides into two twigs. One of them j follows the edge of the humerus as far as the inner condyle, on ' which it subdivides, and wliere it communicates with the anterior I ulnar recurrent artery; it sends oft' a secondary twig which de- scends upon the fore-arm, between the olecranon and inner condyle, : and accompanies the ulnar nerve to a certain distance. The other ; passes backwards into the olecranal cavity, subdivides and throws 1 itself into the lower part of the triceps muscle; it anostomoscs ' with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. The ramus anastomoti- ) cus magnus moreover furnishes many small twigs to the brachialis i internus and pronator teres muscles, the elbow joint, the integu-* 1 ments, and the ulnar nerve. A second anastomosing artery is frequently met with. Branches by which the Brachial Artery terminates. 2456. They are two in number, the ulnar artery and the radial ; artery, and separate from each other at an acute angle, under the i bend of the arm, and at the place where the tendon of the biceps I flexor dives between the anterior muscles of the fore-arm. This « division of the brachial artery is not always situated at the same ] point, and not unfirequently takes place about the middle of the : arm, and even sometimes in the axilla. Before furnishing the ra- ( dial and ulnar arteries, this trunk sends in all cases some isolated : and small twigs into the bundle of muscles which are attached to t the inner condyle. OF THE EADIAL ARTERY- {Arteria Radialis.) 2457. More superficilal and smaller than the ulnar, it follows the « original direction of the brachial artery, and extends at the fore and outer part of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the ' wrist joint, where it winds outwards, and dives under the tendons ( of the extensor muscles of the thumb, to place itself in the interval ' of the first two metacarpal bones. From thence it descends be- : twcen the second of these bones and the abductor indicis (1241), and passes into the palm of the hand, where it constitutes the deep i palmar arch. OF THE RADIAL ARTERY IN THE FORE-ARM. 2458. Before the radial artery arrives at the wrist, it has the ' following relations to the neighbouring parts : 2 Y