G2 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. surface of email extent, uneven, and covered with furrows. Above it, on the contrary, is seen a broad vertical surface, in the middle of which is a large and very irregular opening, with thin and rag- ged edges : this opening leads into a large cavity in the substance ' of the bone, which is named the maxillary sinus {sinus maxilla- ris, s. a.ntrnm Highmorianum). This sinus, which is the largest of those of the head, and which is sometimes divided by septa, has nearly the form of a triangular pyramid, with the base turned in- wards. It corresponds, above, to the floor of the orbit, and contains in its vipper wall the infra-orbitar canal; before, to the canine fossa and the upper and anterior dentar canal, which frequently forms a re- markable prominence in its interior; behind, where it presents the mark of the posterior dentary canals, to the maxillary tuberosity; below, by a surface less broad than in the other directions, to the alveoli of the molar, and sometimes of the canine teeth ; the roots of these teeth sometimes raise up the thin bony plate which forms the floor of the sinus, and have even been seen to perforate it. Entirely to the outside, the summit of this cavity is formed in the malar process, and the bony plate, by which it is separated from the cheek-bone, is so thin as to be frequently broken when that bone is separated. The orifice of the sinus, which is sometimes double, is articulated, above, with the ethmoid bone ; below and before, with the inferior turbinated bone ; behind, with the palate bone, by all of which it is very much contracted: this cavity is lined by a prolongation of the pituitary membrane. 203. At the lower part of the aperture of the sinus, there occurs an oblique slit, chrected forwards and outwards, which receives a plate of the palate bone ; the posterior lip of this slit is inclined into the sinus, and the anterior toward the nasal fossa?. At the upper part of the same aperture, there are portions of cells which unite with those of the ethmoid bone : before it, is a deep channel, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, directed obliquely downwards, backwards and inwards, continuous with the lachrymal groove, and forming the greater part, sometimes even the whole, of the Lachrymal Canal (Canalis Lachrymalis). Behind the orifice of the sinus, there are observed an uneven surface, which is united to the palate bone, and a superficial groove which pro- ceeds downwards and forwards, and contributes to form the Poste^ rior Palatine Canal. 204. Circum ference. At the back part, the two aspects of the upper maxillary bone are separated by an uneven eminence, which is called the Maxillary Tuberosity. It is much more prominent in young than in old subjects, because it contains the last molar tooth, and diminishes considerably after this is gone. It is perfo- rated by the Posterior Dentar Canals, which open externally in the form of two or three small holes, and which, as well as the an- terior, chsappear as they approach the alveoli, and leave the nerves and vessels to descend from one cellule to another, in the diploe of the bone.