ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 328 Posterior and Deep Regio7i of the Fore-arm. OF THE EXTENSOll OSSIS METACAUPI POLLICIS. (Abdtictor Longus Pollicis Manus). 1203. This muscle lies obliquely at the back and outer part of the fore-arm. It is long, slender, and flat, broader in the middle, than at its extremities. It arises by a pointed extremity from the posterior surface of the ulna, beneath the supinator brevis, with which it is almost always united; then by short aponeurotic fibres, from a longitudinal ridge which is observed upon the poste- rior surface of that bone; and lastly, from a hne directed obliquely downwards and outwards, which the posterior surface of the radius* presents at its upper part, and from the interosseous ligament. Its fleshy fibres constitute a fusiform bundle which descends ob- liquely outwards behind the fore-arm, and terminate upon the posterior surface of a tendon, at first concealed among them, which they accompany to the inferior extremity of the radius: there, this tendon passes into a groove, formed on the outer side of the extremity in question, which is common to it and the extensor primi internodii poUicis. It is kept down by the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and its motions are facilitated by a synovial membrane, which commonly belongs also to the ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis, but sometimes a fibrous partition separates the two tendons. On issuing from this gi-oove, the ten- don divides into two or three portions, and goes to be inserted into the outer part of the superior extremity of the first metacarpal bone, occasionally sending a small prolongation to the abductor poUicis. 1204. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the supinator brevis, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digitorum, and extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, to which latter it is united. At its lowest part, it is in con- nexion with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its anterior stirface covers a small portion of the ulna above; the interosseous ligament and the posterior surface of the radius, in the middle; the outer surface of that bone, the tendons of the radial extensors, the radial artery, and the wrist joint below. 1205. It carries the thumb outwards and backwards, and has the same action upon the hand. It may also contribute to supina- tion. OF THE EXTENSOR PHIMI INTERNODII I'OLLICIS MANUS. (Extensor Minor Pollicis Manus). 1206. Much shorter and thinner than the preceding, but of a