125 OF THE CLAVICLE. truncated angle, in which is formed an articular cavity named the Glenoid (cavitas glenoidea). * This cavity, which is superficial, is of an oval form, broader below than above; its great diameter is vertical, and a little inclined downwards and outwards ; it is cover- ed with cartilage, and is articulated with the head of the humerus; its circumference, like that of the cotyloid cavity, is surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous rim; at its upper part, it gives attachment to the long portion of the biceps muscle. It is supported by a con- tracted part, named the Neck, (collum scapulce), which is more distinct posteriorly and downwards than in the other directions, and gives attachment to the fibrous capsule of the articulation of the humerus. 432. Structure. The scapula is cellular at its angles, and es- pecially so in the substance of the spine, acromion, coracoid pro- cess, and glenoid cavity. In the middle of the supra and infra- spinous fossae, it is entirely compact, thin and transparent. There are pretty regularly observed in it two distinct vascular holes on the upper and under surfaces of the spine. Some holes of this kind are also seen in all the places where there is ceUular tissue, and around the neck. 433. Development. Its development takes place by six or se- ven points of ossification : 1.° one for the body of the bone, which commences at its centre ; 2.° one for the glenoid cavity ; 3.° one for the summit of the coracoid process ; 4.° one for the upper sur- face and summit of the acromion; 5.° one for the dorsal edge ; 6.° one for the posterior edge of the spine ; 7° frequently one for the lower angle. 434. The scapula is articulated to the clavicle and humerus. OF THE CLAVICLE, "f* 435. The Clavicle or Collar Bone, (clavicula s. as juguli) is a long irregular bone, placed nearly transversely on each side, at the upper and fore part of the thorax, between the sternum and acro- mion, so as to cross obliquely the direction of the first rib. It is twisted in the form of an Italic /, somewhat in the manner of the keys used by the ancients; less curved and longer in the female than m the male; prismatic and triangular, or irregularly rounded in Its two inner thirds, contracted in the middle, broad and flat at «"ter part. It is divided into the following parts. 436. Body or Middle Part. Its upper surface is broader to- ward the outer part than at the inner, where it is rounded, and gives attachment to the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. The w«;er s7/T/ac« presents the same disposition, and is uneven; there are observed upon it, at its inner part, a rough impression for the • Ta,',,, cama, haui profunda ; Xiic,, forma. f Clavicula, a key. Ku!,, duvi,.