I'ASSlVt: ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 114 two inches, and is articulated with tlie head of the femur ; it is circumscribed by a margin, {supercilium) which is very promi- nent at the uppcr'part and externally, and uneven, and interrupt- ed anteriorly by a deep notch for the passage of the vessels which supply the joint ;^in the recent state it supports a fibro-cartilagi- nous brim, which increases the depth of the cavity. 392. A little before and beneath the cotyloid cavity, is observed the Foramen Ovale, (foramen obturator turn). It is of an oval form in the male ; triangular, with the angles rounded, and smaller in the female; its greatest diameter is inclined downwards and outwards ; its circumference, which is thin and uneven, presents at the upper part a groove, passing obliquely from behind for- wards and from within outwards, through which pass the obtura- tor vessels and nerve; in the fresh state this hole is closed by a fibrous membrane excepting at the place of the groove. The edges of tlie latter cross each other to be continued into the two sides of the circumference. 393. At the inner side of the foramen ovale is a concave, nearly plain surface, broader above and below than in the middle, to whicla the adductor muscles of the thigh and the obturator externus are attached. At its outer and posterior side, above the sciatic tube- rosity, is observed a superficial groove, over which the tendon of the obturator internus muscle slides. 394. Abdominal or Inner Aspect. This is at its upper part directed forwards, and at the lower backwards. At the backmost part and above, there are observed a tuberosity which gives at- tachment to the sacro-iliac ligaments, and an irregular surface, cor- responding to that of the lateral a,spects of the sacrum, with which it is articulated, (375). The rest of the upper part of this aspect is occupied by a broad and shallow cavity, named the Iliac Fossa, perforated in its middle by a vascular canal, and filled by the iliacus internus muscle ; it is limited below by a concave, broad, and rounded prominent line, {linea. arcuata') which is continuous with the posterior edge of the superior surface of the pubes (398), and thus forms the linea innominata or linea ilio-pecthiea, which constitutes a portion of the upper strait of the pelvis, (404'.) Be- neath this line are observed a smooth, inclined, nearly plain surface, covered by the obturator internus and levator ani muscles; the inner orifice of the obturator hole and its groove; and lastly, an- teriorly, a second surface, narrower below than above, which cor- responds to the bladder. 395. Upper Edge or Crest of the ilium. Thick, uneven, con- vex, inclined outwards, excepting posteriorly, where it is directed a little inwards, twisted upon itself like an Italic f, thinner in the middle than at the extremities, and longer in the female than in the male ; this edge gives attachment externally to the obliquus exter- nus abdominis and latissimus dorsi, as well as to the crural aponeu- rosis ; internally, to the transvcrsalis abdominis and quadratus umborum, and in the intermediate portion, to the obliquus inter-