ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 1185. Its OM^er «M7y//6't'is covered above by the extensor carpi radialis longior and supinator longus, below by the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor prirai internodii, polUcis muscles, the ten- don of the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, and the skin. The inner surface dovers the supinator brevis and pronator teres muscles, the radius, and wrist joint. Its posterior edge is intimately connected above with the extensor communis digito- rum. 1186. Its uses are the same as those of the extensor carpi ra- dialis longior. Posterior and Superficial liegion of the Fore-arm, OF THE EXTENSOR DIGITORUM G0MMUNI5. 1187- This muscle, which is long, round, fleshy and simple at its upper part, terminating below in four tendons, arises, above, from the outer condyle, by a tendon, common to it and the other three muscles of the same region, between which it sends prolongations ; internally, from a long aponeurotic parti- tion, sent off from that tendon, which separates it from the ex- tensor proprius minimi digiti; externally, from a shorter partition placed between it and the extensor carpi radialis brevior; poste- riorly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. From these differ- ent origins, its fleshy fibres proceeding obliquely, form a bundle, at first thin, then thicker, and afterwards thin again, which des- cends vertically, and at the middle of the posterior surface of the fore-arm divides into four portions, at first united by cellular tis- sue, and terminated each by a tendon at first concealed by their substance, and accompanied by the fleshy fibres to near the wrist, particularly in those of the ring and little fingers. These four' tendons are placed beside each other, and are connected by a kind of soft and loose cellular membrane. They vary in size: that of the ring finger is the strongest and thickest; tlae next is that of the middle finger, and the little finger has the smallest. They pass along with the tendon of the extensor indicis in a groove, formed behind the carpal extremity of the radius, where they are kept down by the posterior annular ligament. Beneath this ligament, the tendons diverge, become broader, and proceed to the base of the metacarpal bones. The last three are commonly spHt longitudinally, and send small aponeurotic bands, varying in size, and more or less oblique, to each other. Opposite the articula- tions of the metacarpal bones with the phalanges, they contract and become thicker. They then become broad again, and receive the tendons of the lumbricales and mterossei, forming with them ai aponeurosis which covers the whole posterior surface of the fingers Towards their extremity, they divide into three portions, the mid