MUSCLES OF THE FACE. tact with the skin. The internal surface covers the ramus of the jaw, the tendon of tlic temporal muscle, and the buccinator, from which it is separated by a great quantity of fat. 945. The masseter raises the lower jaw, and acts much during mastication. 94G. This muscle is dissected from above downwards, reversing, forwards and backwards, the parts covering its external surface. To stretch its fibres, the lower jaw should be drawn downwards. OF THE TEMPORAL OR CROTAPHITE MUSCLE, 947. The Temporal (Temporalis), is a broad triangular mus- cle, thin above, narrow and thick below, which fills the whole temporal fossa. It is inclosed, as it were, in a sort of sheath, formed internally by several of the bones of the cranium, and ex- ternally by an aponeurosis, which is attached to the whole of the curved line of the temples, to the posterior and superior edge of the malar bone, and to the upper edge of the zygomatic arch. This aponeurosis is of a violet tint above, where it is membranaceous, and pearly white below, where it is thicker and covered by a large quantity of fibrous cellular tissue, to which it intimately adheres. It is even there divided into two laminfe which contain in their in- terval a certain quantity of fat. The fleshy fibres take their origin from the whole extent of its inner surface, and from the periosteum of the temporal fossa, as well as from the small ridge which separ- ates the latter from the zygomatic fossa. They all proceed oblique- ly to the two surfaces of another aponeurosis occupying the middle of the muscle, broad, radiated and triangular like it, and becoming gradually thicker as it descends. From its position, it separates the fleshy fibres into two planes, an outer and an inner, the former rather thin, the latter much thicker. Opposite the zygomatic arch, it separates from the fleshy fibres, and is converted into a very strong tendon, which descends vertically towards the coro- noid process of the inferior maxillary bone, which it embraces in its whole extent, excepting at the outside, where the masseter is in- serted. 948. The external surface of the temporal muscle is covered by the epicranial aponeurosis, the superior and anterior auricvdar muscles, orbicularis palpebrarum and masseter, the superficial tem- poral vessels and nerves, and the zygomatic arch. The internal «w^/aee is appUed upon all the bones which form the temporal iossa, the internal maxillary artery, the pterygoideus externus and buccmater muscles, from which it is separated by much fat. The npper edge of this muscle is curved; the anterior extends from the external orbitar process of the frontal bone, to the anterior edge ot the coronoid process of the lower jaw. The posterior edge, wjiich IS at first attached to the horizontal root of the zygomatic