61 OF THE SUPERIOU MAXILLAUY BONE. division, which is wider and shorter, follows the original direction of" the canal, and terminates at the infra-orbitar hole. 199. This surface, the inner and fore part of which gives at- tachment to the inferior oblique muscle of the eye, is limited: be- hind by a rounded edge, which concurs to form the spheno-maxil- Liry fissure ; internally, by a thin and uneven edge, which is notch- ed before, to be articulated, with the lachrymal, and behind, with the palate bones, whilst in the middle it is connected with the eth- moid ; anteriorly, by a third edge, which is rounded, and of small extent; it forms part of the contour of the orbit, and gives attach- ment to some fibres of the levator labii superioris. Between this edge and the posterior, there is a triangular and very rough emi- nence, named malar (processus malaris), which is articulated to the check-bone. 200. From the outer angle of this process, there descends ver- tically a blunt prominent edge, concave from above downwards, behind which is a portion of the bone belonging to the zygomatic fossa, while before it is a pretty distinct depression, called the infra- whitar fussa, perforated above by the infra-orbitar foramen, which gives passage to the infra-orbitar vessels and nerves, and affording attachment below to the levator anguli oris muscle. ♦ Anteriorly, this fossa is bounded by the myrtiform. fossa, an indistinct depres- sion, into which is inserted the depressor of the wing of the nose. 201. Inner or Naso-palatine aspect. This can only be well seen when the bones have been separated. Above, where it is invested by the pituitary membrane, it is concealed in the nasal fossae; while below, where it is covered by the palatine membrane, it forms part of the arch of the palate. It is divided into two portions of different extent, by a broad flat horizontal eminence, very thick before, which is named the palatine process (processus palatmtif). This process corresponds below to the movith, and above to the nose : in the latter direction, where it presents at its fore-part one of the superior apertures of the anterior palatine canal, it is con- cave, and smooth; in the former direction, on the contrary, it is rough, uneven, and marked with a great many small apertures and several furrows; the latter of which are sometimes converted poste- riorly into small bony arches, more or less complete, under which the palatine nerves and vessels pass. Posteriorly, it is bounded by a sloped and denticulated margin, which sustains the palate bones; internally, it unites with the opposite bone by a thick striated edge, presenting anteriorly a channel which occupies only the lower half of its thickness, and is tlirected obliquely downwards and forwards : by uniting with a similar channel in the other bone, It forms the anterior palatine or incisive canal (canalis palatinus 8- mcisivus). This edge is also surmounted by a ridge, de- ^ outwards, more prominent before than behind, >vnich constitutes the half of a groove, into which the vomer is received. 202. Beneath the palatine process, there is observed a concave