ORGANS OF SENSATION. 564. it almost entirely covers the outer surface of the tragus, arising from the base and terminating at the summit of that eminence. 2. Mtiscle of the Anii-tragus, (M. Anti-tragicus). Less broad, but thicker than the preccdinsf. and of as constant occur- rence, it occupies the interval which separates the anti-tragus from the anti-helix : its Hbres are oblique. Anteriorly, it is covered by the fibrous layer of which we have spoken (1993), and posteriorly corresponds to the skin. 3 Large Muscle of the Helix, (M. helieis major). Long and slender, it covers for the space of a few lines the origin of the helix above the tragus. It is directed obliquely forwards, and is thin- ner anteriorly than posteriorly. 4. Small Muscle of the Helix. (M. Helieis Minor). Very thin, and commonly wanting, it is much more slender than the pre- ceding, and is situated beneath and behind it, on the prominence of the helix which divides the concha into two parts. 5. Transverse Muscle, (Transversus Auriculce). Placed be- hind the auricle, it arises from the convexity of the concha, and loses itself upon the prominence which the groove of the helix forms posteriorly. It is frequently divided into three or four dis- tinct fasciculi. (If the Meatus auditorius externus, or Auditory Canal. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1996. Placed between the temporo-maxillary articulation and the mastoid process, this canal extends from the bottom of the concha to the cavity of the tympanum, from which it is separated by the membrana tympani. Its length, which is about ten or twelve lines in the adult, is always a little greater below than above. It is directed obliquely from without inwards and from behind forwards ; but it is curved in the direction of its length so as to present a convexity above and a concavity beneath. Broad- er at its extremities than at the middle part, its transverse section is of an elliptical form. Its inner extremity, which is limited by the membrana tympani, is oblique from above downwards and from without inwards, and it is upon this that the greater extent of its lower wall depends. OllGANIZATION. 1997. The meatus auditorius is formed by a bony portion which belongs to the temporal bone, by a prolongation of the cartilage of the concha, and by a kind of fibrous membrane. The skin ot