576 ORGANS OF SENSATION. 2037. The Aqueduct of the Cochlea is an extremely narrow canal, of which the upper orifice is seen in the scala tyrapani, near the fenestra rotunda, and the inferior on the posterior edge of the pe- trous process (177)» before the jugular fossa. It is from three to four lines in length, descends obliquely forwards, and represents a very elongated hollow cone. Frequently it is very small, and even seems to be wanting altogether. OF THE SEMI-CIRCULAR CANALS. (Canales Semi-circulares). 2038. These canals, whose form is indicated by their name, are formed in the substance of the petrous process, and open by their two extremities in the interior of the vestibule, behind which they are situated, corresponding posteriorly and inferiorly to the mas- toid cells. They are three in number, and their direction is differ- ent, two being vertical, the one superior, the other posterior, and the third horizontal. They leave between them a pyramidal space the base of which is directed outwards and the summit inwards and backwards. This space is filled by the diploii of the petrous pro- cess. In the fcEtus, it remains empty, and is occupied by a pro- longation of the dura mater. 2039. The Superior Vertical Canal, which is a little smaller than the posterior, but larger than the horizontal, presents the con- vexity of its curvature directly upwards. One of its sides is ante- rior, the other posterior, and of its extremities the one is external the other internal. It commences at the upper and fore part of the vestibule, by a pretty large and elliptical aperture, close to one of those of the horizontal canal. It terminates by uniting pos- teriorly and internally with the posterior vertical canal, and forms with it a common canal, about two lines in length, which opens at the upper and inner part of the vestibule by a single rounded ori- fice. This common canal has not a greater capacity than either of the two from which it results. 2040. The Posterior Vertical Canal presents its convexity back- wards, one of its extremities being directed forwards and upwards, tlie other forwards and downwards. The first is united, as we have said, with the preceding canal. The other opens separately in the lower and inner part of the vestibule, a little above one of the apertures of the horizontal canal, by a wide, rounded, or ellip- tical orifice. ' 2041. The Horizontal Canal is the smallest of the three. Si- tuated between the other two, it commences anteriorly by a pretty wide infundibuliform aperture, between that of the superior vertical canal and the fenestra ovalis, and terminates internally of the ves- tibule by a narrow aperture, between the common orifice of the two