103 OF THE NASAL FOSSiE. of the frontal bone and the bones of the nose; then a small con- cave longitudinal surface, marked on the sides of the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and applied posteriorly upon the cribriform plate, the holes and small fissures of which are perceived farther back. This part of the vault is very thin and narrow. Posteriorly, the cribriform plate forms a suture with the sphe- noid bone and its turbinated bone. It is there that the third por- tion commences, in which are observed the lower and inner surfaces of the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and the orifice of the sphenoidal sinuses, which they concur to form, and which is sometimes want- ing, as has been observed by Ingrassias, Reininger, Schneider, and some others. Very different from what it appears in a sphenoid bone separated from the others, here this aperture is narrow and regularly rounded, and it always occupies the upper region of the sinus. Lastly, beneath this latter, is the articvdation of the vomer with the sphenoid bone. This region of the nasal tossos is extreme- ly thick, and of much greater extent than it seems at first sight to be, on account of the existence of the sinus, which prolongs it be- hind, and thvis augments its surface. 354. The Lower Wall or Flooi- of the nasal fossae is rectilinear, and does not vary its direction like the vault. It is concave trans- versely, and slightly inclined backwards. Behind the superior ori- fice of the anterior palatine canal, it descends a little forwards, after being raised for a moment, and anteriorly it is prolonged a little more on the inner side than on the outer, on account of the ante- rior nasal spine. There is observed upon it the orifice of which we have just made mention : and just at the point of junction of the vomer with the maxillary bone, is seen the entrance of the small canal for the naso-palatine nerve, which is pretty constantly pre- ceded by an arterial groove. Toward the posterior third of this wall, there is a kind of squamous suture, formed by the palatine and upper maxillary bones, and which is here much less distinct than it is on the palatine arch. Posteriorly, it is terminated by a notched edge, which is somewhat raised, and by the posterior nasal spine. 355. The Inner Wall of the nasal fossae is the least complicat- ed, and is formed by one of the surfaces of the septum which sepa- rates these cavities. Sometimes this septum is deflected to the one side, which is most commonly the right, as Haller has observed; It IS then observed that the inner wall of one of the nasal fossse is concave, and the other convex. In other circumstances, on ac- count of the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone being laterally united to the anterior edge of the vomer, there occurs on one side a prominent oblique line, and on the other a corresponding KsTsTze ""^^ observed an aperture of greater or This septum is composed of the vomer, the perpendicular plate 01 tne ethmoid bone, a crest of the frontal bone, another of the 3