597 OF THE VELUM PALATI. .leneath the chin, in the course of the submental artery. Their .lerves arc supplied by the infra-orbitar (1G59), mental (1669) and ■acial (1684) nerves. OF THE VELUM PALATI AND POSTERIOll APEKTURE OF THE MOUTH. 2111. The Velum palati is a soft, broad, thick, mobile partition, pppcnded to the extremity of the vault of the palate, and separat- ing the mouth from the pharynx. Its form is nearly quadrilateral. Its two surfaces, the anterior and posterior, are smooth, and pre- Knt nothing remarkable, unless it be the anterior, which offers at ;is middle part a small prominence formed by the azygos uvulae nuscle (1047). Their direction varies according to the motions performed by the velum palati. Its upper edge is very thick and sxed to the vault of the palate; the loiver edge is free and floating Hbove the base of the tongue. It presents at its middle part an i)ppendage or prolongation named the Uvula. The uvula is of a conical form, and varies in size in different ;ubjects. It forms the inferior edge of the velum palati into a i>ouble arch, terminated on each side by two pillars which are con- inuous with the tongue and the pharynx. These pillars of the velum palati are placed the one before the tither, and separated by a triangular space in which are lodged the ansils; they are imited above but diverge below. The anterior ^) oblique, and contains in its substance the constrictor isthmi fau- iium muscle. The posterior is nearly vertical, and formed by a mortion of the palato-pharyngeus muscle internally. H 2112. Mucous Layer of the Velum Palati. It forms a kind 1 fF duplicature in which is contained the muscular layer, and is con- I mued anteriorly into the membrane of the movith, and posteriorly jmto those of the nasal fossae, so that the palatine and pituitary I laembranes unite upon the free edge of the velum palati. The linaterior lamina of this layer is less red than the posterior, and |lovers a multitude of mucous follicles, which are extended over the )re part of the muscles, and are so close as to be in contact with ich other ; they form of themselves nearly the whole thickness of me uvula. They are yellowish, rounded, and compressed; their vflccretory orifice is not easily perceptible. These follicles are much less numerous, and of smaller size, under the posterior la- lina. 2113. Muscular Layer. The muscles of which it is formed •ave already been described. They are the levator palati mollis, -nd circvimflexus palati, (1041), the constrictor isthmi faucium IIOSI), the palato-pharyngeus (1048), and the azygos uvulaj 2114. The arteries of tlie palate arc furnished by the internal iiaxillary, labial and superior pharyngeal arteries. Its veins unite