OF THE BONES OF THE FINGERS. 1S9 lotver extremity is connected with the first phalanx of the little finger. 475. Structure and Development. The metacarpal bones have the same structure as the long bones in general; in other words, their body is compact, and their extremities cellular. They are hollowed by a distinct medullary canal. In the middle of the an- terior surface of their body, the aperture of their principal canal for the vessels of the bone is observed, its direction being upwards. The first is developed by two points of ossification, one for the body, and the other for the tipper extremity; the other four have also two, one for the body, and the other for the lower extremity. 476. Articulations. The first is articulated with the trapezium and the first phalanx of the thumb ; the second with the trapezium, trapezoides, os magnum, the third metacarpal bone, and the first phalanx of the fore-finger; the third with the os magnum, the second and fourth metacarpal bones, and the first phalanx of the middle finger ; the fourth with the os magnum, os unciforme, the third and fifth metacarpal bones, and the first phalanx of the ring finger; the fifth with the os vinciforme, the fourth metacarpal bone, and the first phalanx of the little finger. OF THE BONES OF THE FINGERS. 477- The fingers are composed of fourteen bones, named Pha- langes* [internodid).-\' Each of them has three, excepting the thumb, in which there are only two. Those next the metacarpus are longer and larger ; the extreme series is the smallest, and the middle bones are of an intermediate character. In all of them the upper extremity is larger than the lower; the anterior surface is concave, and the posterior convex, the former, being connected with the tendons of the flexors, the latter with those of the extensors of the fingers. OF THE FIRST OR METACARPAL OR PROXIMAL PHALANGES. {Phalanges Primce.) 478. There is one of these bones for each finger. That of the middle finger is the longest, while the one belonging to the Httle finger is the shortest and weakest. Their anterior surface forms a sort of groove, which lodges the tendons of the flexor muscles, and whose thin and rough edges give attachment to the fibrous sheath of these tendons. The upper extremity., which is of a quadrilateral form with rounded angles, presents a transversely • <I>aXa^,yi(, from ^«x«>g, (wicsy they being compared to soldiers arranged in order. t Inter, Mwce/j; nodus, ajulnl.