MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 285 prolonged externally than internally, and from which proceed the leshy fibres, cUverging and following different directions, but al- nost always perpendicularly to the axis of the tongue. The upper ibres, which are the shortest, are at first horizontal, but on arriv- no- at the lower part of the tongue, curve upwards and forwards to each its point. The middle fibres, which are less curved, are con- bunded on the side with the lingualis muscle. The inferior are nuch longer, and descend obliquely backwards to lose themselves it the base of the tongue, or even to be attached in part to the iummit of the small horn of the os hyoides, or continued into ;he constrictor pharyngis medius. There results from this arrange- nent that the muscle represents a triangle whose base is attached ;o the tongue, where its fibres are interlaced with those of the lin- fualis, stylo-glossus, constrictor pharyngis superior, constrictor me-' iius, and hyo-glossus. At the place where the two genio-glossi ouch each other behind, there is observed a small bundle of fibres, vhich ascends towards the middle ligament of the epiglottis, to be nserted at the dorsal surface of that organ. 1020. The external surface of the genio-glossus is covered by he sublingual gland, and the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, lingualis, md mylo-hyoideus muscles. Its inner surface is in contact with hat of the opposite side, and even incorporated with it below and jehind. Its lower edge corresponds to the genio-hyoideus; the •ipper, to the mucous membrane of the mouth. 1021. The contraction of the inferior fibres of this muscle carries he toiigue and hyoid bone forwards, after having previously raised he latter. The superior fibres pull it backwards, and restore it to ts natural position ; while the middle fibres hollow its dorsal sur- ace into a groove. 1022. The muscle is most conveniently exposed by cutting out I piece of the lower jaw, if this has not been done for the preced- jig muscle, then drawing the tongue upwards and forwards to ;tretch its fibres, then the parts covering its outer surface (1020) ire to be removed, dissecting always in the direction of its fibres. OF THE STYLO-GLOSSUS. 1023. The Styln-glosstis is narrow above, broad and thin below, nd arises chiefly from the stylo-maxillary ligament, which seems )cculiarly intended for it. It is in fact attached to nearly the whole interior edge of that hgament and lower half of the styloid process, by a thin aponeurosis. It then expands, and descends orwards and inwards, to be partly lost upon the edge of the tongue, -ncl partly continued into the Mngualis, hyo-glossus and genio- ;lossus muscles, after being divided into two and sometimes into hree bundles. 1024. Its outer surface is covered by the digastric muscle, the ungual nerve, the submaxillary gland, and the mucous membrane