PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOiMOTlON. 116 than on the inner side; its posterior edge, which is thin and uneven, and which forms part of the superior strait of the pelvis, receives the fibres of the pectineus muscle, whilst the anterior edge is con- tinuous with one of the lips of the obturator groove. The ajjine of the puhes, to which are attached the pyramidalis muscle, and the outer pillar of the inguinal ring, occupies the summit of this surface near the union of the anterior edge with the lower. 399. Structure. The os innominatum is in general thick; its cellular tissue presents large inflated areolae, having the appearance of lace. Two layers of compact tissue, the one external, the other internal, cover it in its whole extent, and touch each other in the centre of the iliac fossse, where the bone is thin and transparent. The bottom of the cotyloid cavity is also very thin. 400. Development. Several years after birth an osseous plate is seen to develop itself upon the vipper edge of the bone, to form the iliac crest; while a similar plate embraces the sciatic tuberosi- ty, and extends over the ramus of the ischium; a third plate at the same time occupies the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, and is more regular in its appearance in the male than in the female ; lastly, a fourth, which is less frequently observed in the male, is formed in the angle of the pubes. But in the foetus, long before this period, three principal centres of ossification are developed at once in the iliac fossa, at the sciatic tuberosity, and near the spine of the pubes. These three points of ossifica- tion unite their fibres in the cotyloid cavity. Nor must we forget to mention, that in certain subjects, especially in females, a par- ticular epiphysis constitutes the spine of the pubes, and forms a small lamina, which occasionally remains moveable on the body of the bone, so that it might be considered as the rudiment of the marsupial bone which exists in many animals. This opinion was that of Beclard, and I perfectly agree with him. 401. In consequence of this mode of development, the os inno- minatum has been divided into three portions, the I!iu7n* (os ilium sive pars iliaca ossis innominati), Pubes,'f (as pubis, sive pars pxi- dendalis ossis innominati) and Ischium,^ (os ischii, sive pa7's ischir- adica ossis itmominati). The ilium is the uppermost, and forms the margin and prominence of the haunch. The pubes consti- tutes the anterior part of the bone, and sustains the external or- gans of generation. The ischium is the lower portion, and is that which supports the body when it is seated. But although these three regions are distinct in various respects, they must not be con- sidered as constituting so many particular bones. We have also to observe, that the upper and horizontal portion of the pubes has received the name of the Bodi/ of that bone, while the lower por- • Probably so named, because it seems to support the intestine called tbe Ilcon. f So named, on account of the vicinity of the parts which are developed at pu- berty. $ 'llrxl'*^ coxa, sou aocluhnlum. 4