ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 260 Infcriorly they seem to unite with the pyramidalie nasi, palpchralis, and corrugator supercilii. Its upper edge, which is continuous with the epicranial aponeurosis, describes, towards the fronto-pa- rietal suture, a curve, whose convexity is directed backwards, and is sometimes sinuous. 879. Its anterior surface is covered by the integuments; the posterior rests upon the os frontis, a little upon the temporal and corrugator supercilii muscles, and upon the vessels and nerves which come out of the orbit to be distributed over the forehead. 880. It brings forward part of the integuments of the cranium, wrinkles the skin of the forehead transversely, and may contri- bute to open the eye by its union with the orbicularis palpe- brarum. OF THE OCCIPITALIS. 881. Tlie Occipitalis, which resembles the preceding, but a little less adherent to the skin, is narrower and more regularly qua- drilateral. It is situated at the posterior part of the cranium, be- hind the mastoid process, and above the upper curved line of the occipital bone. It is attached by short aponeurotic fibres to the outer part of that line, and the neighbouring region of the tem- poral bone, above the splenius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus. Like the frontalis, it terminates in the epicranial aponeurosis. It is covered by the integuments and some nervous filaments, and lies upon the occipital and temporal bones. 882. Its action is less marked than that of the frontalis. It pulls backward a part of the skin of the head, without wrinkling it much, and stretches the common aponeurosis. 883. The epicranial aponeurosis, with the frontalis and occi- pitalis muscles, are always difficult to be dissected, because they adhere so closely to the skin, and so loosely to the pericranium. [ Perhaps the best plan is, to expose the muscles first, and proceed 1 from them to the aponeurosis ; while doing so, care must be taken, i by inclining the edge of the scalpel towards the skin, not to cut| through the subjacent parts. ' To expose the frontalis, make an incision through the skin pa- rallel with the eye-brow, but a little above it, and, from the middle of this one, another upwards to the crown of the head : the skin is to be carefully dissected off on each side of this latter incision, using the forceps until a large enough flap is obtained for holdinp with the fingers. To expose the occipitalis, an incision is to be made from above the mastoid process to the crown of the head, and, if the integu-j mcnts have not been previously cut in dissecting the muscles ol the neck, another at right angles with the commencement of it. Bv this incision- the occipitalis may be exposed, obserNnng the sam(