76 PASSIVE .OIIGANS OF LOCO.MOTION. In each of them there is distinguished a part situated external to the alveolus, covered by a vitriform substance, which is named the Crown (corona). It is bounded by a contraction termed the Neck, (collum) which separates it from another portion entirely concealed in the substance of the jaws, and which is the Rooty (radio;). ; We shall now examine the particular characters which these two parts present in the adult, in the diffei-ent kinds of teeth, of which there are generally thirty-two, sixteen in each jaw, and which are divided into three classes,—Incisors, Canine Teeth, and molar teeth or Grinders. We would also observe, that they are all articulated with the alveoli by gomphosis, and in such a manner as to be al- most absolutely immoveable, and that, in the recent state, their root is surrounded by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the mouth, which is named the Alveolo-dentar Periosteum. OF THE INCISORS. 258. The Incisors, (^Denies Incisores, seu tomici, s. primores), are eight in number, four in each jaw, of which they occupy the middle and fore part. Their Crown is of the form of a wedge; it is quadrilateral, flattened from before backwards, broad and thin towards the free edge, contracting and becoming thicker towards the root; slightly convex, smooth and polished anteriorly, con- cave, and of somewhat less extent behind, where it frequently pre- sents small longitudinal furrows ; it is limited on each side by a triangular narrow plain surface, the base of which is turned to- wards the root, and which is contiguous to the neighbouring tooth. The layer of enamel which covers the crown externally, is thin- ner behind, and especially at the sides, than before, and is circumscribed towards the neck, anteriorly and posteriorly, by a parabolic margin. The Root of these teeth is always single, very long, of a conical form, transversely flattened, slightly furrowed on each side in the longitudinal direction, pointed, and a little thicker before than behind. 259. The Incisors of the upper jaw are stronger and larger than those of the lower jaw ; they are also thicker and broader; their axis, which is directed downwards and forwards, is a little inclined toward that of the neighbouring tooth, in such a manner that they tend toward each other, and each pair is separated by a triangular space having its base directed upwards. Those which are situated in the middle, are larger and more solid than the others ; their root is also more rounded; their free edge is sloped in the form of a chisel, at the expense of the posterior surface, and is perfectly straight. The lateral incisors, Avliich are smaller, have their free edge oblique, with their more prominent angles toward the corresponding middle incisor. 2G0. The Lower Incisors are smaller than the upper; those