^8 ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. fibres are vertical, externally oblique. They are covered by those of the levator labii superioris alaiquc nasi, and by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and are applied upon the superior maxil- lary bone. 927. It depresses the wing of the nose. 928. This muscle is exposed by everting the upper lip, and raising the mucous membrane on the side of its fa?num. OF THE DErRESSail ANGULI GUIS. (Triangularis Labiorum.) 929. This muscle, which is thin, flat, and triangular, is situated at the lower part of the face, arising from the external maxillary line, between the masscter muscle and the mental hole, by short aponeurotic fibres, succeeded by fleshy flbres, some of which ap- pear to come from the platysma myoides. These fibres ascend toward the commissure of the lips, those in the middle vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards, and the posterior from behind forwards. At the summit of the muscle, they are incorporated with the zygomaticus major and orbicularis oris, but more espe- cially with the levator anguli oris. 930. The outer surface adheres strongly to the skin. The in- ner covers the platysma myoides, buccinator and depressor labii inferioris, to which latter it is united. 931. It lowers the commissure of the lips, and acts especially in grief. OF THE DEPRESSOR LAMIl INFERIORIS. (Quadratus Menti. ) 932. It is situated to the inside of the preceding muscle, and is thin and quadrilateral. It arises from the external oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, and ascends in the lower lip, where it is confounded with the orbicularis oris. Its fibres, which are pa- rallel, and seem to be continuous with those of the platysma myoides, are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, uniting in the most intimate manner internally and above with those of the opposite side, and internally and below with those of the levator menti, while externally and below they are interlaced with those of the preceding muscle. 933. Its anterior surface is covered by the depressor anguli oris and by the skin, to which it strongly adheres. The posterior surface is applied upon the lower jaw, the mental nerve and ves- sels, and the orbicularis oris and levator menti. 934. Tliis muscle depresses the lower lip.