OIICANS OF DIGESTION. of its extent, excepting wliere it joins the stomitcli. fts on/cr mirface is smooth in its wliole extent; reddish above, and assum- ing a white tint as it descends ; it presents numerous parallel lon- gitudinal striae. Its inner surface is much whiter than tliat of the pharynx, and always presents longitudinal folds. ORGANIZATION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 21-41. Like the pharynx, the oesophagus is composed of a mus- cular coat and a mucous membrane. 2142. Muscular Coat. It is thicker and stronger than the fleshy coat of the pharynx, and especially than those which are observed in the stomach and intestines. It is obviously formed of two planes of fibres, an external and internal; the fibres of the former arc longitudinal, and seem to come in part from the sides of the cricoid cartilage, so that, superiorly and behind, they pre- sent a separation in which those of the inner plane are seen expos- ed ; these last are transverse, annular, frequently interrupted in the circle which they describe, and not so close as the preceding. The highest are disposed in small distinct bundles connected by the cellular tissue ; they are of a red colour. But in the rest of the canal, the fibres of the two orders are placed close upon each other. Their redness besides diminishes much, and at length they even become almost white. Towards the stomach, the longitudinal fibres expand and diverge in a sensible manner, so that the internal mucous membrane is dis- tinctly seen in the intervals of their bundles. They are continue^ upon the stomach, while the circular fibres entirely cease. Between the muscular coat and the inner membrane of the oeso- phagus, there is found a layer of dense and compact cellular tissue, ■jvhich never contains fat. 2143. Mucous Membrane. It is soft, spongy, delicate, rather f.hin and white, especially below. It is continuous above with the membrane of the pharynx, and below with that of the stomach. In its whole extent, and in the empty state of the organ, it pre- sents more or less numerous longitudinal folds, arising from the contraction of the transverse fibres of the muscular coat, and fre- quently running into each other. In the substance of these folds there are prolongations of the cellular tissue of which we have just made mention, and to which the older writers gave the name of Nervous Coat. On their projecting surface are seen minute tuber- cles, or rather villosities of a cylindrical or conical form, resembling on a small scale the papillas of the tongue. 2144. The mucous follicles of the oesophagus are much smaller, and less numerous than those of the pharynx. They are thinly scattei-ed in the cellular tissue lying between the two layers which form it. Their orifices arc very small, and occur in the depressions