RIGHT on ANTERIOR VENTRICLE. 087 In the space occupied in the adult by the fossa ovalis tlierc is in the foetus an aperture wliich is named the foramen ovale (Foramen ofBotal), and which sometimes remains open after birth. Its use is to transmit, before the period of birth, tlie blood of the vena cava inferior directly into the left auricle. 2253. There are observed moreover, in the whole extent of the inner surface of the right auricle, a great number of small orifices not furnished with valves ( foramina Thebesii), which are suppos- ed to belong to the veins of the walls of the heart. OF THE KIGIIT OR ANTEUIOIl VENTUICLE^ (Ventriculus dexter seu anterior.) 2254. Wider and broader, but less extended in length than the left, at the right and anterior part of which it is situated, the right ventricle has a considerable resemblance to a triangular pyramid, of which the base is turned upwards and backwards, and is confound- ed with the corresponding auricle. It has more extent on the an- terior surface of the heart than on the posterior. 2255. Its anterior and outer wall is rather thin and very con- cave. The posterior and inner is formed by a septum, which equally belongs to the left ventricle, and constitutes a semi-ovoidal projection : their thickness is unequal in the different parts of their extent. Both are pretty smooth towards their base ; but in the rest of their extent, they present a great number of muscular bundles, commonly designated by the name of Columnce carnece, which vary much as to size, length, and direction. Their dis- position is in general rather irregular, some directing themselves vertically from the summit to the base, while the others cross them in all sorts of directions, and form with them a very confused net-work. Of these columns, some (from three or four, to eight or nine) are much larger than the others ; they are rounded, and differ so much in length, that some of them resemble mere tubercles, while others have an extent of nearly an inch. All arise from some point of the walls of the ventricle, direct themselves, becoming larger, from its summit towards its base, and terminate abruptly, each by several small tendons, {chordce tendinece) which are insert- ed into the points of the tricuspid valve, diverging sensibly from, and sometimes anastomosing, as it were, with, each other. Some of these tendons are bifurcated, and most of them enlarged at their termination. Other fleshy columns of the right ventricle, more numerous than the preceding, are attached to its walls by their two extremities, but are free in their circumference. Others again are attached to the walls in their whole extent, and in the manner of pilasters. These are the most numerous and the