470 ORGANS OJ? SENSATION, bouring parts. The lower twig follows nearly the same direction, and gains the under lip. All the filaments which proceed from these different twigs form a plexus similar to those which we have just pointed out, and communicate with theirs, or with those of the infra-orbitar (1659), mental (1669), and buccal (1664). With the latter especially they form numerous anastomoses which are ob- served around the facial artery and vein, and send secondary fila- ments along their divisions. 1686. Cervim-facial branch, {Ramus minor sive descendens.) It descends obhquely downwards in the substance of the parotid gland, behind the ramus of the jaw, towards the angle of which it dives under the platysma myoides, directing itself forwards. The twigs which it furnishes are distinguished into those which arise from it above the base of the jaw, and those which separate from it under that point. 1687- Supra-maxillary Twigs. They are two in number. The upjjer, which is pretty large, arises, at a right angle, immediately beneath the lobule of the ear, and directs itself transversely for- wards over the lower part of the masseter muscle, concealed for some time by the parotid gland. It then dives under the platys- ma myoides and triangularis muscles, dividing into four or five filaments which are distributed to these muscles, to the buccina- tor, orbicularis oris, and the integuments. Some of these fila- ments ascend towards the cheek-bone, others descend towards the lower lip. All of them have frequent anastomoses with the pre- ceding and following twigs, and with the infra-orbitar, mental, and buccal nerves. The Lower Twig turns over the angle of the jaw, sending some filaments to the lower part of the masseter and pterygoideus inter- nus muscles, and covered by the platysma myoides. It then di- rects itself obliquely forwards and downwards over the outer sur- face of the masseter muscle, crossing the direction of its fibres, and dividing near its anterior edge into several filaments which throw themselves into the same muscles as those of the preceding twi^, and moreover into those of the lower lip and chin, as well as into the skin of these parts. They have also precisely similar anasto- moses. 1688. Infra-maxillary Twigs, These twigs are two or three in number, arise together or separately, and are even sometimes united at their origin with the lower of the supra-maxillary twigs. They descend forwards and downwards over the anterior and supe- rior part of the neck, covered by the platysma myoides. Towards the angle of the jaw, they divide into a great number of divergent filaments which follow the base of the bone, anastomosing with the supra-ptiaxillary and mental twigs, and are distributed to the inte- guments of the neck and the platysma myoides, where they unite with some filaments of the cervical plexus. 1689. The disposition of the facial nerve, such as has been indicated above, is not constant. It presents extremely numerous