ougans of sensation. 458 hind forwards, from within outwards, and from below upwa under the dura mater, in tlie outer' wall of the cavernous sinu from which it is separated, like the third pair, and the fourth b distinct laminai' of cellular tissue. From being at first placed be neath the nerve of the third pair, it becomes superior and in ternal to it, as we have already said. So long as it is containcc within the cranium, it has a grayish tint, a very decided plexifor appearance, and an uneven surface. Before arriving at the sphe noidal fissure, through which it passes to the orbit, it receives filament from the superior cervical ganglion, and then divides int three twigs which perforate the dura mater separately. Of thes twigs, one is external, the lachrymal nerve ; another superior, th frontal nerve; and the last internal, the nasal nerve. 1647- Of the lachrymal nerve. {Ner^ms lacrymalis). Thisi the smallest of the three. Separated from the ophthalmic nerv when it changes its direction to ascend above the third pair, it im mediately enters a canal of a few lines long, furnished to it by the dura mater to which it firmly adheres. It is directed outwards and forwards, enters the orbit, and proceeds along its outer wall, between the periosteum and the abductor oculi, as far as the lachrymal gland and the upper eyelid. 1648. In this course it gives off a posterior or spheno-maaiillary filament, which anastomoses with a filament of the superior maxil- lary nerve towards the anterior extremity of the infra-orbitar fissure, and an anterior or malar filament, which enters a canal in the ma- lar bone, and emerges upon the cheek, where it anastomoses with a filament of the facial nerve. The latter filament, and sometimes both, traverse the lachrymal gland before issuing from the orbit. 1649. When the lachrymal nerve has arrived at the gland of the same name, it is situated upon its internal surface, and fur- nishes it with three or four filaments which are distributed in its tissue, or emerge from it to pass into the tunica conjunctiva. 1650. Lastly, the nerve proceeds inwards beyond the gland, behind the aponeurosis of the levator palpebrae superioris, and ter- minates by a great number of filaments in the upper eyelid. 1651. Of the Frontal Nerve, (nervus frontalis). Larger than the other two branches of the ophthalmic nerve, it separates from the common trunk later than the preceding, enters the orbit be- tween the periosteum and the posterior extremity of the rectus oculi superior, proceeds obliquely forwards and outwards, in the di- rection of the axis of the orbit, and passes above the levator pal- pebrae superioris, where it divides into two twigs, an inner and smaller, and an outer and larger. Sometimes, however, their size is the same. The internal frontal branch, {nervus supra- trochlearis), runs a little inwards towards the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquus superior oculi, and furnishes at first a filament which descends to anastomose by arches with a filament of the nasal nerve. It then gives off at the level of the cartilaginous pulley itself, several other twigs which proceed from within ouU