op THE CKUKAL NERVE. 507 ring, <1ikI ramifies in the integuments of the scrotum, upper and inner part of the thigh, the tissue of the dartos, and the en- velopes of the testicle. The oiite)- descends along with the crural vessels behind the crural arch, in the midst of the lymphatic gang- lia and cellidar tissue of the groin ; and there expands into a great number of filaments, which become cutaneous, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh, where they sometimes anastomose with those of the crural nerve. OF THE ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 1808. The Anterior Crural Nerve (nervus femoralis prior), arises from the anterior branches of the first four lumbar nerves, and forms the outermost of three cords which terminate the plexus. At first situated under the psoas muscle, it separates from it oppo- site the fourth lumbar vertebra, proceeds outwards along its outer edge, before the iliacus muscle, gives them some filaments, which before penetrating them, form a sort of net-work at their surface, and issues from the abdomen behind the crural arch, along with the crural artery, externally of which it is situated. 1809- Immediately after issuing from the abdomen, the crural nerve divides into a variable number of twigs, but always of con- siderable size. Sometimes this division takes place before its pas- sage under the crural arch ; but they may always be distinguished into superficial and deep. 1810. Superjicial Twigs. Less voluminous than the others, they vary in number from two to six ; but the distribution of their filaments is constant and uniform. They creep for some time under the crural aponeurosis, and perforate it more or less high, to become subcutaneous. The holes through which they pass are very distinct. Presently after, they separate into a multitude of filaments, which expand upon the inner and fore part of the thigh, and are distributed to the integuments, and of which several de- scend as far as the upper "part of the leg, accompanying the vena saphena. 1811. EuVternal Deep Twigs. They vary much in number and size; but, in general, they are always larger than the pre- ceding. They descend outwards between the ihacus, sartorius and rectus femoris, and separate into filaments, which are distributed to the neighbouring muscles. 1812. Internal Deep Twigs. They are less numerous than the external, and are especially distributed to the vastus internus, and to the pectineus and sartorius muscles. One of them accompanies the crural artery, being placed at first before it, and afterwards on Its mner side, but separates from it below, to ghde under the in- ner edge of the sartorius, to which it gives some filaments, and then descends to the knee, where it is expanded. But the largest