ORGANS OF SENSATION. 50(3 perforates the trcinsversus muscle, is placed between it and the ob- liquus internus, furnishes them with some filaments, and divides into two twigs. Of these, the outer is distributed to the lower part of the three broad muscles of the abdomen, and loses itself in the integuments. The inner continues the original course of the branch, descends between the transversus and obliquus internus, rfs far as the anterior and superior spine of the ileum, follows the crural arch as far as the inguinal ring, perforates the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, and ramifies in the integuments of the fold of the groin, and of the pubic region, as well as in the scrotum in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female. 1805. Middle Branch. Arising also from the first lumbar nerve, it traverses the psoas magnus, descends along its outer edge, directs itself outwards before the iliacus internus and under the pe- ritoneum, perforates the transversus abdominis close upon the iliac crest, is placed between it and the obliquus internus, then enters the latter muscle and the obliquus externus, gives a great number of filaments to all these muscles, furnishes some also to the integu- ments, and sends one in particular along the crural arch, to the upper and outer part of the scrotum. 1806. Inferior ox Inguino-cutaneous Branch (externalcutaneous). It commonly arises by two roots from the second lumbar nerve, and under the two preceding branches. After perforating the psoas mag- nus, it runs along its outer edge for some extent, passes obliquely be- fore the iliacus muscle, gains the superior and anterior spine of the ileum, and issues from the pelvis between it and the inferior. It then becomes a little thicker, is flattened and divides into two twigs behind the crural aponeurosis. Of these twigs the external one is smaller than the other; it immediately directs itself out- wards toward the posterior and upper part of the thigh, in the in- teguments of which it spreads out a great number of filaments.. The other is internal, and seems to be the continuation of the branch ; after a short course, it perforates the crural aponeurosis,, becomes subcutaneous, descends upon the fore and outer part of the thigh as far as the knee, and gives off many filaments to the integuments and cellular tissue. OF THE GEKITO-CUURAL BRANCH. {Nerms spermaticus extermis). 1807. It comes from the first lumbar nerve, descends at first vertically in the substance of the psoas magnus, receives from the second lumbar nerve a filament which increases its size, then issues from the psoas muscle, follows its anterior surface for some extent, covered by the peritoneum, and near the crural arch, divides into two twigs, an inner and outer. The inner, which is larger, ac- companies the spermatic cord, passes with it through the inguinal