OF TH1£ MUSCLES IN GENEIIAL. 287 examples of this arrangement. The simple muscles arc sometimes jlat, and have parallel fibres, which form a kind of fleshy band, as ij we observe in the sartorius, &c. or broad and very extended mem- '1 branes, as in most of the abdominal muscles. These two kinds of muscles have sometimes tendons or aponeuroses in their middle, or in some part of their extent: of this description are the masseter, the recti abdominis, &c. 791- There are also simple radiated, and simple penniform muscles; the fibres of the former proceed from a common centre, and are disposed like the radii of a circle, as is the case with the diaphragm, the iliacus internus, the temporal muscle, &c.; those of the latter are disposed in two rows, which unite in a middle . line, forming an angle with each other, like the barbs of a feather; 3 a variety of this muscle is that, which is named semi-penniformy i and which has its fibres also oblique, but on one side only. The : flexor carpi radialis is penniform, the flexor carpi ulnaris, semi-pen- I niform. 792. The compound muscles are those, which have but a single I belly and several tendons, like the flexors of the fingers; or several I l^ellies and several tendons, like the biceps flexor cubiti, the sacro- l lumbalis, Sec. .i5;793. We have already made known the various situations, which I the bones may have with relation to the diff'erent planes of the I body (46) ; it is the same with respect to the muscles. Their size, 1 like their direction, may also sometimes serve to distinguish them f from each other ; but it is in their form that tliey exhibit the great- . est number of varieties. There are, in fact, triangular muscles, as ' i is the case with several of those in the hand; cubical, as the mas- : seter and pterygoid muscles ; square and flat, as the pronator . quadratus of the fore-arm; rhomboidal, orbicular, serrated, and 1 trapezoidal. In most cases the muscles are in pairs, there being ■ very few single, &c. 794. In general, the name of Belly (venter), is given to the middle portion of a muscle, while its extremities are named the Head and Tail, or more commonly the Origin and Insertion. Whence the names of gastrocnemitis, digastric, biceps, triceps^ &c. according as they present two bellies, two or three heads, &c. OF THE TENDONS. 795. The Tendons (Tendines), are very elastic, tenacious, fi- brous cords, which transmit to the bones the motions of the mus- cles, and are absolutely passive in themselves. All the fibres of these organs appear to arise from the periosteum, or at least to be incorporated with it. They diflcr from the ligaments only in the circumstance, that one of their extremities is manifestly continuous Willi the fleshy body of a muscle. 'i'hcy arc suinclimes concealed in tlie midst of the muscukr