56 PASSIVfi ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the tympanum, and descends first obliquely, then vertically, in the inner wall of that cavity, to end in the stylo-mastoid hole. This canal is lined by a very thin hbrous prolongation, and is per- forated in its passage by several apertures, independently of that of the hiatus Fallopii,* the principal of which is a canal which trans- mits the corda tympani; there are also some small canals for ner- vous filaments which are distributed to the muscles of the small bones of the ear. 181. Behind the petrous process, and on the cerebral aspect of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, there is a deep channel which presents the internal orifice of the mastoid hole (175), and lodges a portion of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. 182. Circumference. It commences by a retiring angle, at the place where the anterior edge of the petrous process unites with the rest of the bone. This angle, which receives the spine of the sphenoid bone (124), presents at its bottom two apertures, separated by a bony lamina, and placed one above the other. The upper, which is less marked, gives entrance to the inner muscle of the malleus ; the lower is the orifice of the bony portion of the Eustachian Tube {Tuba Eustachiana ossea). The circumfe- rence is now cut obliquely at the expense of its outer surface, and becomes thick and denticulated to be joined with the sphenoid bone, directing itself forwards and upwards. It then becomes thin and sharp, and proceeds backwards, describing a semicircle; here it is articulated with the parietal bone, forming what is called the Squamous Suture. Above the mastoid process it is again marked with a retiring angle, becomes thickened, and unites with the inferior and posterior angle of the parietal bone. Lastly, it descends forward, still thick and denticulated beneath the mas- toid process, and terminates at the petrous portion near the stylo- mastoid hole. This part of the circumference is articulated with the upper portion of the lower edge of the occipital bone. 183. Structure. The petrous process is formed of a very dense and white compact tissue; next to the teeth, it is the hardest part of the skeleton ; and from this circumstance it has derived its name. The mastoid process is filled with large cells. The rest of the bone presents the same structure as the other bones of the cranium. 184. Articulations. The temporal bone is articulated to the sphenoid, occipital and parietal bones, the malar bone, and the lower jaw, by the various points mentioned above. 185. Development. Its development takes place by six points of ossification, one for the petrous process, one for the circumfe- * Bertin {Traite. (fOstcologir., t. ii. p. 52.) lias mentioned one at the level of the hiatus Falopii, but much sm.-illor than it, opening into one of tlie semicircular canals. M. Jucobson has lately described another which leads into a groove, or according to Boclard, into a canal formed on tiie promontory of the tympainmi. It contains an anastomosis of| the glosso-idiaryngeal nerve, with a filament of the sphc. iio-palatine ganglion and of the carotid plexus.