516 ORGANS OI- SENSATION. tarsus along with the tendon of the extensor poUicis muscle, this nerve separates on the back of the foot into two twigs, an inner and an outer, both deeply seated. 1048. The largest of the twigs of this nerve, before its division, arises near its origin. It traverses horizontally the upper extre- mity of the extensor communis digitorum, and divides into several filaments, the inferior of which are distributed to that muscle and the tibialis anticus, while the upper ascend under the origin of the latter, and lose themselves around the knee joint. It also sends lower down a considerable twig to the extensor digitorum commu- nis, and two or three others to the extensor proprius pollicis and ti- bialis anticus. 1849. Internal and Deep Twig of the hack of the Foot. It runs along the inner edge of the extensor brevis digitorum pe- dis, to which it gives some filaments, passes under the portion of it destined for the great toe, places itself between the first two metatarsal bones, sends ramifications to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and to the integuments, and at length divides into two filaments, which spread out, the one on the outer side of the first toe, the other on the inner side of the second, coipmunicating with the superficial filaments already indicated (1845). 1850. External and Deep Twig of the back of the Foot. It passes outwards and forv^ards under the posterior part of the ex- tensor brevis digitorum, and then divides into a great number of filaments, which are distributed to that muscle and the interossei. OF THE INTEIINAI. rOPLITKAL OK TtUIAL NERVE. (Nervus tibialis.) 1851. The Tibial Nerve is larger than the preceding, and seems to be the true continuation of the sciatic nerve. It descends at first nearly vertically into the ham, along the outer edge of the semi-membranosus muscle, between the crural aponeurosis and the popliteal vessels, from which it is commonly separated by much adipose tissue. Then entering between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, it passes behind the knee joint and the popliteus muscle, then between the latter and the upper extremity of the so- leus ; there it passes through the arch.ed aperture which that mus- cle presents (1420). It then descends along the leg, between the soleus muscle, which is behind it, and the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, wliich are before, and externally of the posterior tibial artery, with which it is closely connected. Towards the lower part of the leg it becomes superficial, places itself on the inner side of the tcndo Achillis, dives under the urch of the calca- ncum, above the origin of the abductor pollicis, and divides into two branches, one of which is the internal, the other the external, plantar nerve.