214 PASSIVE ORGANS OV LOCOMOTION. Ligaments, to tlic number of three on each side,* having a trans- verse direction, not very distinct from each other, especially before, strengthen the articulations of the four last metacarpal bones, which have also between them at their upper part, short and dense inter- osseous ligaments, placed immediately under the culs-de-sac of the synovial membrane. 699- Transverse and Inferior metacarpal Ligament. This is a fibrous band, about two lines broad, stretched transversely before the lower extremities of the last four metacarpal bones, which are not in direct contact with each other. Its anterior surface is marked with four depressions, which correspond to the passage of the tendons of the flexors of the fingers, and whose sides are con- tinuous with the sheaths of these tendons; it is moi-eover covered by the lumbricales muscles, and by the vessels and nerves of the fingers. Its posterior surface is intimately connected with the li- gaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and corresponds to the tendons of the interosseous muscles. The fibres of this li- gament are transverse ; the superficial, which are longer, embrace the heads of the four metacarpal bones ; the deeper, which arc shorter, only go from one bone to the other. ARTICULATION OF THE METACARPAL BONES WITH THE PHA- LANGES. 700. These articulations are .formed by the reception of the heads of the metacarpal bones into a concave arvJ superficial sur- face, presented by the superior extremities of the first phalanges of the five fingers. The surfaces are all covered with cartilage, but those of the phalanges are much less extensive than those of the metacarpal bones. An anterior ligament, and two lateral hga- ments, serve to strengthen each of these articulations, which are invested with a synovial membrane. 701. Anterior Ligament. This ligament is a kind of fibrous half ring, embracing the anterior part of each articulation. On each side, it is attached to the metacarpal bone, before the lateral liga- ments ; and anteriorly, it partly confounds its fibres with those of the transverse and inferior metacarpal ligament, and with those of the sheath of the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. From this disposition there are formed two curved planes, meeting each other by their convexity, one of which corresponds to the tendon, and the other to the articulation. It is in the substance of this li- gament that, in the thumb, the two small sesamoid bones, between which passes the tendon of the flexor longus proprius pollicis, are developed. 702. Lateral Ligaments. They arise from the lateral parts of , • On admet qu'il n'y a point de ces ligamens entre le pouce et )e doigt indica- teur; mais c'est a tort, comine je m'en suis convaincu, par dcs redicrches exactcs. Meckel, Man. d'Anatomie tnidiiit par Jourdun et Brescliet. torn. ii. p. 40.