. AUTKIllES OF THE AORTA. f ortant as to size and of an indeterminate number, separate from it posteriorly to lose themselves in the septum of the ventricles. Of the Arteries ivhich arise from the Arch of the Aorta. 2291. The convexity of the arch of the aorta produces three large arterial trunks, destined for the head and superior extremi- ties, which, are designated, proceeding from right to left, by the names of Arteria imiominata, Left Carotid, and Left Subclavian arises. These three arteries arise in the course of a line inclined from before backwards and from right to left, so that the arteria inno- minata is anterior and the left subclavian posterior to the other. The first two, which are very close to each other, include between them the trachea. Frequently the left vertebral artery comes directly from the arch of the aorta, and forms a fourth trunk. It is also not vmcoraraon to see a small artery issuing between the arteria innominata and left carotid, and ascending upon the trachea as far as the thyroid body.* 2292. The Arteria innominata, ascends obliquely to the right, on the side of the trachea, and after a course of an inch, divides into two trunks, of which the one is the right carotid, the other the subclavian of the same side. It is covered by the left subclavian vein, the sternum, and the sterno-thyroidei muscles, and corre- sponds posteriorly to the trachea and longus colli muscle of the right side. 2293. The left carotid artery forms a right angle with the aorta at its origin, and the subclavian of the same side comes off ob- liquely, as does the arteria innominata. OF THE COMMON CAROTID AETERIES. ( Carotides communes). 2294. We are already acquainted with their difference of origin, which makes the left longer than the right by nearly the whole extent bf the arteria innominata. Their size is precisely the same. They ascend a little obliquely outwards on each side of the neck, to the upper part of the larynx, where they divide into the ewter- nal carotid and the internal carotid arteries. Inferiorly the right carotid is a little anterior to the left, but as It ascends it places itself in the same plane. • I'or a full account of 1 ho varieties in tJii; origin of llic nrterios from tlie arcli a . r B^'"^^ '^"»»-'tl'--mmin's Flatcb of ilic Aitciics by Dr. Hiid 1'. \V. itowi,, burgeon.