(Jos ORGANS OF DIGliSTlON. surrounded by a great number of vascular twigs and nervous fila- ments. OKGANIZAXION OF THE STOMACH. 2157. The walls of the stomach are formed by three superim- posed membranes, a serous, a muscular, and a mucous. There also enter into their composition cellular tissue, vessels and nerves. 2158. Serous Membrane or Coat. It is formed by the perito- neum, and does not exist along the curvatures when the stomach is empty, as we have already :,aid. There results from this disposi- tion that the stomach, in the state of vacuity, is no longer covered by the same portions of peritoneum which were in connexion with it during its distention; for it is then prolonged between the laminte of the omenta. Here also, as in the rest of its extent, the peritoneum is white, transparent, smooth, and lubricated externally by a serous fluid. It is united to the muscular membrane by a cellular tissue, which is very loose on the edges of the stomach, but very dense in the middle part of its two surfaces, where there is an intimate adhe- sion. 2159. Muscular Memh) 'ane or Coat. It is very thin, and differs essentially in this respect from the muscular coat of the pharynx and (t'sophagus. It is composed of fasciculi of soft whitish fibres, never red, placed beside each other, and running in three different directions. 1st, Some of these fibres, which are more superficial, are longitudinal. Less numerous and less uniformly diffused than the others, they form the continuation of the external muscular layer of the oesophagus (2142), which may be satisfactorily seen on examining them near the cardiac orifice, where they are found to separate from each other. The principal fasciculi form a bundle which runs along the small curvature as far as the pylorus. Another bundle descends on the great cul-de-sac, and is prolonged in the di- rection of the great curvature. Those which are expanded over the two surfaces of the stomach are much shorter and irregularly dis- posed. Some of these latter collect, however, into two small bands, the one before, the other behind, which arrive at the pylorvis after a course of about an inch. 2dly, The fibres of the second kind, lying immediately under the former, are circular, and belong pe- culiarly to the stomach; they appear to have no connexion with those of the oesophagus. Less numerous at the cardia than on the rest of the stomach, and especially at the middle, and running pa- rallel to each other, they never entirely encircle the stomach; but it is very difficult to assign their precise points of origin or termi- nation. 3dly, Lastly, the fibres of the third kind are ohliqiie; they constitute two broad bands, one of which extends from the left side of the cardia over the two surfaces of the stomach, while the other is prolonged from the right side of the cardia over the 2