545 OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. and elongated. They are separated from each otlicr by a greater or less interval in most subjects, but in many cases they unite above the root of the nose. 193i. The eyebrows are covered with short and stiff hairs di- rected obliquely outwards, much more numerous internally than externally, generally of the same colour as the hair of the head, and commonly thicker in dark than in fair persons. The portion of skin, in which the bulbs of these hairs are implanted, is pretty thick, and applied upon a layer of adipose cellular tissue which it- self rests upon some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles, beneath which occurs the corrugator supercilii. 1935. The nerves of the eyebrows are furnished by the internal and external frontal nerves, (1651), and by a filament of the tem- poral branches of the facial nerve, (1683). Their arteries come from the ophthalmic and temporal arteries, and their veins pass into the corresponding venous trunks. OF THE EYELIDS. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1936. The Eyelids (Palpebrce), are two moveable veils lying upon the anterior part of the ball of the eye. They are separated from the forehead by the eyebrow, and confounded below with the cheek, and are distinguished into upper and lower. 1937. The Upper Eyelid, which is very broad and possessed of great mobility, descends below the transverse diameter of the eye ; it is chiefly by it that the eye is closed, for the lower eyelid does not rise high upon it. Both are convex before, and present a great number of transverse wrinkles, more numerous, however, on the upper than on the lower, and more distinct in old age than in youth. These wrinldes are semicircular and concentric, those on the upper eyelid are concave downwards, while those of the lower are concave upwards. 1938. The two eyelids are united at the extremities of the trans- verse diameter of the orbit, forming two angles (Canthi), the in- ner of which is more open than the outer. This difference arises from the circumstance that the fibres of the orbicularis palpebra- rum are inserted internally upon a tendon which docs not exist at the outer angle (893). From the latter a number of wrinkles are seen to proceed in a radiating manner towards the temple. 1939. The free edges of both eyehds are in contact with each other, and supported by a fibro-cartUage. That of the upper eye- lid IS directed downwards, while the other looks upwards. They are cut obliquely from before backwards, and are so disposed as to ^h^l °? ^^'"^ brought together, a narrow and triangular canal, of wnich the ball of the eye constitutes the posterior wall. This ca- nal IS broader internally, especially opposite the puncta lachryma- 2 X