491 OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. liquely outwards between the semi-spinalis colli and compicxus muscles, to which they give filaments, and on arriving at the spinous processes, traverse the splenius and trapezius, and lose themselves in their fibres and in the integuments of the back part of the neck and upper part of the back. 1747. Anterior Branches. They are remarkable for their size. At first situated between the two scaleni muscles, before the pos- terior, they all furnish one or two filaments, which anastomose with those of the cervical gangUa, and some others which lose themselves in the scaleni muscles. They then all communicate together, and form the Brachial Plewus. It is moreover to be observed here, that the anterior branch of the fifth nerve sends a twig to the phrenic nerve (1737) communicates with that of the fourth, while that of the eighth unites with a branch of the first dorsal nerve. I OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. {^Pleocus Nervorum Brachii.) 1748. Formed by the union and interlacement of the anterior branches of the last four cervical nerves and first dorsal, the bra- chial plexus extends from the lateral and inferior part of the neck to the axilla, where it divides into several branches which are dis- tributed to the arm. In forming it, the anterior branches of the above-mentioned nerves proceed in the following manner: Those of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves descend obliquely outwards, and, after a course of about an inch and a half, unite into a single trunk which preserves the same direction. Those of the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves also unite and form a trunk which becomes nearly horizontal. Lastly, that of the seventh cervical nerve proceeds for a long time between these two trunks in an iso- lated manner; but, opposite the first rib, it unites to both. Thus, the brachial plexus divided into three distinct portions at its origin, afterwards forms a large flat bundle in which the nervovis filaments are mingled and interlaced in an inextricable manner. 1749- The brachial plexus is situated at its commencement be- tween the scaleni muscles, the anticus lying upon it so as to cover it below over a considerable extent, and leaving it almost bare above. It is then immersed in the subclavicular adipose tissue, passes between the subclavius muscle and the first rib, is applied upon the upper portion of the serratus magnus, and is lodged in the upper part of the axilla. Until it reaches the latter place it remains situated behind the axUlary artery and vein, but then the different branches which terminate it, surround the artery on all sides and form a sort of sheath for it, while the vein, which had always been more superficial, retains its position. 1750. The branches which the brachial plexus furnishes arc