OF THE lUGHT COLIC AIITERV. 705; right lumbar colon, it divides, like the preceding into two branches, one of which bends to the left and inosculates with the right branch of the superior colic artery (2531), while the other descends to unite with the ascending twig of the inferior right colic. 2533. Inferior Right Colic Artery (Art. ileo-colica). It is a little larger "than the preceding, very near which it is found at its commencement. Directed transversely to the right in the meso- colon, it divides, near the coecum, into three branches. The first bends from beneath upwards, and communicates with the descend- ing branch of the middle right colic artery. The second descends in the mesentery, and unites with the extremity of the superior mesenteric artery itself (2529). The third is transverse, and arises from the angle of the other two ; it gains the posterior part of the colon and coecum, when these two intestines commvinicate. From thence it sends a small twig, into the peritoneal fold of the vermiform appendage, which, in descending, forms a small arch, from the convexity of which proceed parallel ramifications to the walls of the appendage. It then separates into two branches, of ■which one ascends behind the colon, while the other descends be- hind the coecum. Both divide into a multitude of small twigs which belong to the walls of these intestines. 2534. In anastomosing with each other, as we have pointed out, the right colic arteries form distinct arches, whose convexity is turned towards the intestine. These arches give off no twigs by their concavity, but by their convexity they send oS a very great number. These, for the most part, on leaving the arches, direct themselves parallel to each other as far as the colon ; but several of them, follpwing an oblique direction, meet and anastomose so as to constitute areolce of various forms, whence arise other secondary twigs which go directly to the intestine. When they have all ar- rived there, they subdivide, upon its two surfaces, into slender twigs which dive beneath the serous coat, and form a very fine net- work in the other coats. Those which belong to the coecum are much closer and more numerous than those of the colon. Branches which arise from the convexity of the superior Mesen- teric Artery. 2535. Their number is very variable, but commonly extends from fifteen to twenty. Their volume and length diminish from the upper towards the lower, which are mere twigs. They all direct themselves more or less obliquely downwards and to the left between the two laminae of the mesentery, towards the small intestine, for which they are destined, as well as for the lower third of the duodenum. At the end of a rather short course, each of them divides into two twigs which separate from each other, and unite by arches with those of the neighbouring branches. From the con- 2 z