THE CRANIUM IN GENERAL. 83 fibres of the genio-glossus muscle, and above to the stylo-hyoid li- gament. It is not rare to find one of these pieces twice as long on one side as on the other, and this side is almost always the left, as Duver- noy and J. F. Meckel have remarked. 279. Structure, Development, and Variatiotts. The hyoid bone contains much cellular tissue in its middle piece; its cornua are much more compact. It commences its development toward the conclusion of the fcetal hfe by five centres of ossification, one for each of its portions. Sometimes, in advanced age, all these portions unite into a single piece. The stylo-hyoid ligament is sometimes more or less ossified, so that the styloid process has been found continuous with the small horns. It also pretty frequently happens that one of the cornua is longer and more ciuved than the other. OF THE CRANIUM IN GENERAL. OF THE CONFOllMATION OF THE CRANIUM. Outer Surface of the Cranium. 280. Viewed from without, the cranium, in general, presents the form of a pretty regular ovoid, of which the small extremity is anterior, and in the adult commonly bears the same proportion to the large extremity as thirty to thh-ty-one: it is flattened on the sides in the region of the temples, and below towards its base: over the rest of its extent it is convex. Its whole outer surface is pretty smooth at the upper part; but below it is uneven and per- forated with a great number of holes. It is also observed that on the outside the skull is always more symmetrical than on the inside. 281. It is more particularly on the outside that the mode of junction of the bones of the cranium may be observed, where they form fines, more or less irregular, to which the name of mtures is given: these lines being much less distinct on the inside of the skull, where they merely present the form of superficial marks without indentations, at least in adults. When they exist between bones of no great thickness, they penetrate directly into the cra- nium ; but when the contrary is the case, they follow an obfique direction, the edges of the bones being there shaped in such a manner as to overlap each other. All these sutures seem to pro- ceed from various points of the circumference of the sphenoid bone. ^82. Thus, from the anterior aspect of that bone, there is seen proceedmg to the right and to the left a curved line, concave an- teriorly, which results internally from the junction of the sphenoid bone with the ethmoid and with the sphenoidal turbinated bones, and externally from the articulation of the first of these bones with tne trontal. It traverses the upper wall of the orbit, and when it nas arrived at the external orbital process of the frontal bone, it