OF THE INTERNAL TUDIC ARTERY, : numerous twigs, (one of which is tlie arteria transversalisperincel), to the anterior half of tlie sphincter ani muscle, and to the trans- versalis pcrinfti, erector penis and accelerator urinic muscles, as well as to the integuments. Some of them ascend towards the rectum under the name Inferior or Ewternal HcBinorrhnidat Ar- teries, and anastomose with the middle ha?morrhoidal and the ter- mination of the inferior mesenteric. Then the branch itself passes over the accelerator urinjE muscle, dives into the septum of the dartos, and is distributed to the scro- tum, the dartos, and the skin of the penis. 2595. Deep Branch, (Art. penis). It traverses the transversus perinjei muscle and then ascends above it, along the ascending ■ ramus of the ischium. Concealed by the erector penis muscle, i it amves at the triangular cellular interval which separates the I two roots of the corpus cavernosum, before the symphysis pubis, ' where it divides into two branches which are called the Dorsal Artery of the Penis, and the Artery of the Corpus cavernosum : 1 before this however it gives off 2596. The Artery of the bulb, (Ramus magnus ad urethrce ^ hulbum), which varies much in size. It directs itself inwards and forwards, above the transversus perinaii muscle, as far as the bulb of the urethra, into which it dives, subdividing into several twigs. I One of them penetrates into the corpus cavernosum, and there anastomoses with the cavernous artery. 2597- Before its division, and after giving off the artery of the \ bulb, the deep branch of the pudic sends small twigs into the I obturator internus, erector penis, and transversus perinaei muscles, J and into Cowper's glands. 2598. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum, {Art. corporis caver- tnosi penis). It penetrates into the corresponding side of the ccorpus cavernosum, and presently divides into several secondary rtwigs, which run along its whole length, and distribute in all direc- IFtibns a great number of ramifications in the midst of the spongy Otissue. Some of them perforate the fibrous membrane, and intro- tl'duce themselves into the walls of the urethra. 2599. Dorsal Artery of the Penis, (Art. dorsalis Penis). It ppasses through the suspensory ligament of the penis, running along tithe dorsal surface of the latter, parallel to that of the opposite siside. Its course is very flexuous, and it gives numerous small twigs tito the fibrous membrane of the corpus cavernosum and to the skin. >Near the glans, it subdivides and loses itself in the tissue of that part. 2600. In the female, the superficial branch of the internal pudic siartery, after sending twigs to the transversus perinasi, sphincter ani iiand constrictor vaginae muscles, terminates in the substance of t.the labium. The deep branch, (Art. clitoridis), ascends along the ^ischium and pubes, as far as the interval between the roots of the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris, throws a twig into the retiform plexus which surrounds the orifice of the vagina, and separates, before the symphysis of the pubes, into two secondary branches,