SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLIONT, 521 The ciliary filaments which are expanded upon thd iris form white lines which gain its small circumference. 1{J()5. If the ciliary circle be considered as a ganglion, the com- munication of the ophthalmic ganglion with it, is evident. The latter has also connexions with the superior cervical ganglion, or with the cavernous ganglion, by a filament which they send to the nasal nerve (1652), and which appears to adhere to it, and to form especially that which goes to the superior and posterior angle of the gancrlion. OF THE SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION, OR GANGLION OF MECKEL. {Ganglion spheno-palatinuni). ■ 1866. This is a small reddish body, somewhat hard, triangular or cordiform, of variable, but always inconsiderable size, convex •in its outer surface, flattened on the inner side, and placed exter- nally of the spheno-palatine foramen. Immersed in the adipose cellular tissue of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, it is deeply con- cealed between the bones, and difficult to be discovered. It fur- nishes a great number of twigs from the different points of its cir- cumference. The inner are the spheno-palatine nerves; the i/ife- rior, the palatine. The superior form communications with the superior maxillary nerve, as we have already shown (1657)- Last- ly, the posterior is the vidian or pterygoid nerve. I867. Of the Spheno-palatine Nerves. Their number varies from three to five at their origin. TJiey introduce themselves im- mediately into the nasal fossjE, through the spheno-palatine hole, near the posterior extremity of the middle turbinated bone. They are always very soft. They spread out upon the septum, or outer wall of these cavities in the following manner. 1st, Two or three filaments proceed at first between the periosteum and the mucous lamina of the pituitary membrane, to the concave surface of the upper turbinated bone; they lose themselves in the corresponding meatus, near the aperture of the posterior ethmoid cells (357), ^^ith- out its being yet ascertained whether they send ramifications into these celKdes. 2dly, Other very short twigs go to the middle turbi- nated bone; the highest of which, after running for sometime upon its convex surface, passes through it by a small hole, and loses it- self upon its concave surface in the membrane: the others termi- nate upon its posterior extremity. 3dly, Some extremely slender twigs unite into one, and wind before the sphenoidal sinus, to gain the posterior part of the septum. 4thly, Larger than the preced- ing, a twig, named the Nasn-pala,tine, winds at first before the sphenoidal sinus, traverses the arch of the nasal fossjc, and passes to the septum between the two laminse of the pituitary membrane. It descends very obliquely forwards along the septum, and thus arrives, without ramifying, at the superior aperture of the anterior