PASSIVE OllCAKS OV LOCOMOTION. ARTICULATIONS OF THE IIYOID BONES. 580. The liyoid bone is not directly connected with any of the surrounding bones; but it has indirect connexions with the tem- poral bone by means of the stylo-hyoid ligaments. Tlie differ- ent pieces of which it is composed touch each other by cartilagi- nous surfaces-, and arc kept in position by ligaments. The latter articulations become obliterated witli age. 581. Styh'hyoid LirjavicMt, {Ligamenhim siispensoriKm ossis hyoidis). This is a slender and very elongated fasciculus, broader below than above, formed of parallel, whitish and glistening fibres, which descend obliquely forwards and inwards from the sty- , loid process of the temporal bone (177) to tJie small horns of the ! oshyoides (278), to which it is attached so as to form an extremely j acute angle with the great horns. It is frequently full of bony j granulations, varying in size and number, and sometimes com- i pletcly ossified. It varies exceedingly in other respects also, and has even been seen substituted by a muscle.* ARTICULATIONS OF THE MEAD WITH THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. ARTICULATION OF THE OCCIPUT WITH THE ATLAS. 582. This articulation, which is a very close double arthrodia, is formed by the condyles of the occipital bone, and the superior i articular cavities of the atlas (56, 162) ; the surface of both these parts is invested with a pretty thick cartilage, which is interrupted in several points of its circumference by inequalities, in which are lodged small masses of reddish cellular tissue. A synovial mem- brane, which exists on each side, covers the articular surfaces, being reflected from the one to the other ; it is very loose anteriorly, be- cause on this side, it comprehends in its circuit a part of the sur- face of the occipital bone, while in the rest of its extent it is con- fined to the circumference of the condyle. Anteriorly, it covers the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament; posteriorly and eaternally, it is in connexion with much cellular tissue; internally, it covers the ex- tremity of the transverse ligament, a part of the corresponding odontoid ligament, and small masses of adipose cellular tissue which have been taken for synovial glands. This articulation is further strengthened by two ligaments, the one before, the other behind, besides a great number of small irregular ligamentous fibres. 583. Anterior Occ'ipito-Atlantal Ligament, {MemJyrana an- mdi atiterioris vertebra; primce). It is situated between the an- i terior arch of the atlas and the corresponding part of the margin of ■ the occipital hole, and is composed of two distinct fasciculi. One ■ of these, which is narrow, round, thick, superficial, and formed of B • VVcitbitflit Syiulesm. Ito. rctropoli, 17t2, p. 2\% I