ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. S40 united to the posterior division of the preceding lamina, forms a thin aponeurosis, much broader above than below, on the outside of which are inserted the fleshy fibres of the obliquus internus. The other joins by its inferior edge a small separate lamina, which exists before the lower fourth of the rectus muscle (1250), and thus constitutes a semicircular aponeurosis, whose convex edge, which is directed outwards, gives attachment to the fleshy body of the transversus muscle, and whose anterior surface is, for a con- siderable length, confounded with the lamina of the obliquus in- ternus. OF THE OBLIQUUS ABDOMINIS EXTERNUS. 1253. The obliquus abdominis extei'nus is one of the largest muscles of the body. It is a fleshy membrane, irregularly quadri- lateral, curved backwards, and occupying the side and fore part of the abdomen. It arises posteriorly from about the two anterior thirds of the outer edge of the crista ilii, by short aponeurotic fibres, continuous with those of the fascia lata; anteriorly, it comes from the superficial lamina of the abdominal aponeu- xosis, (1251). The fleshy fibres of the first origin ascend nearly Vertically, and are attached to the inferior edge of the last three ribs by digitations, covered by those of the latissimus dorsi, with which they are interlaced, (805). Those from the aponeu- rosis, so much the shorter and more oblique the higher they are, are continuous with the preceding, and proceed to the lower edge of the fifth and sixth ribs, where they seem to join the pecto- rahs major, and the outer surface of the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs, where they are attached by very distinct digitations, longer and broader than those of the three last ribs, whose upper edge is attached to a ridge running obliquely downwards and backwards, which also gives insertion to the serratus magnus, so that there is a distinct interlacing here also, (1089). Their summit is very elon- gated, and terminates in a small tendon at the lower edge of the rib. All the digitations of the obliquus externus form together a curved line, the concavity of which is turned downwards, because the attachment of the highest takes place very near the cartilage of the rib to which it belongs, and those of the next digitations, as far as the fifth, inclusively, separate more and more, to approxi- mate gradually again in the last, so that the last of aU is attached to the lower edge and the summit of the cartilage. 1254. The outer surface of this muscle, and the aponeurotic la- mina to which it is attached, is separated fi-om the integuments by the fascia supeificialis, a membrane extending over the abdomen, and downwards over the front of the thigh. This fascia, which is chief- ly composed of condensed cellular membrane, can only be shown distinctly in thin subjects. Being extended over the inguinal and