ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 746 right, to the lung; to the left^ to the portion of the pericardium ■which ascends upon the aorta. 2722. Before penetrating into the pericardium, the vena cava superior receives the Vena azygos, right internal mammary and inferior thyroid veins, and several thymic, mediastinal, pericar- diac and supei-ior phrenic branches, all from the right side. 2723. Right Internal Mammary Vein. It is precisely similar to the left (2714), differing from it only in its termination. Towards the umbilicus, its first roots anastomose with those of the epigastric vein. 2724. Right Inferior Thyroid Vein. In the first part of its course, it is in all respects similar to the left, with which it consti- tutes the thyroid venous plexus (2715). But farther down, it descends outwards, between the pneumogastric nerve and the ar- teria innominata, which are behind, and the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, which are before, and opens into the vena cava superior, between the two venae innominatae. 2725. Vena Azygos. It forms a communication between the two venae cavae. It opens into the vena cava superior, immediate- ly above the right bronchus, forming around it and the right pul- monary artery, a kind of arch, by bending from before backwards, and a little from left to right. It then descends slightly forwards and to the left, upon the fore and right part of the bodies of the dorsal vertebras, alongside of the aorta and before the right inter- costal arteries. It then penetrates into the abdomen, passing tlirough the crura of the diaphragm along with the aorta and tho- racic duct, or sometimes to the outside of the right crus. In the abdomen, it opens into the vena cava inferior or into one of the lumbar veins. Sometimes, at its termination, it bifurcates. 2726. Near its origin, the vena azygos receives, by the convex- ity of its curve, the Right Bronchial Vein, the roots of which ex- tend into the lung and over the oesophagus, and some small twigs from the trachea, bronchial lymphatic gangUa, pericardium, and walls of the aorta and pulmonary artery. 2727. In its course, along the dorsal vertebrae, the vena azygos receives anteriorly several twigs from the aorta and oesophagus; some of the latter are very large, especially below. To the right, it receives the corresponding intercostal veins, which have the same distribution as the arteries of that name. To the left, towards the seventh rib, it receives the Vena semi-azygos, a considerable branch which commences, by anastomosing with the right renal vein or with the first lumbar vein, enters into the thorax by a particular aperture of the diaphragm, ascends parallel to the vena azygos on the left side of the vertebra;, and passes behind the aorta and oesophagus, receiving the inferior intercostal veins of the left side.