ORGANS OF SECRETION. 782 cheek. Having arrived upon the buccinator muscle, it passes through an aperture formed in the midst of its fibres, and terminates in the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, at the distance of about three lines from the meeting of the cheek with the corresponding gums. The parotid duct does not pass through the buccinator obliquely, but perforates it perpendicularly, and forms an angle as it passes through the mucous membrane of the mouth, proceeding a little for- wards. Its orifice is besides very contracted, and furnished with a small fold of the mucous membrane, so that it is not easily per- ceived. It very frequently receives, about the middle of its length, ano- ther duct from a glandular body placed in its vicinity, which ap- pears to be an accessory gland to the parotid. This body is in fact placed before the masseter muscle, either above or beneath the duct, sometimes even in its course. Its surface is commonly smoother than that of the gland itself. Steno's duct is but loosely connected with the neighbouring parts.> It is accompanied by several branches of the facial nerve, and by. some arteries which furnish ramifications to its walls. Placed im-- mediately under the skin, it is only separated from it internally by some fibres of the platysma myoides, and by the zygomaticus ma- jor, which crosses its direction obliquely. The parotid duct is about a line in diameter, but its cavity is very narrow. Its walls are composed of two distinct membraneous layers. The outer is firm, strong and thick, of a whitish colour, and fibro-cartilaginous appearance ; it acquires still greater density towards the end of the duct, which, without increasing in capacity, becomes conical; and near the buccinator muscle it gives rise su- perficially to a thin aponeurosis which covers its fleshy fibres, while it also gives attachment to some of the fibres of that muscle as it passes into the aperture of which we have spoken above, and by which these fibres are actually interrupted and not merely separat- ed. The other membraneous layer of the duct is internal; it is essentially mucous, and very delicate, and appears to be continu- ous with the membrane which lines the cheeks, differing from it only in whiteness. 2877. There are always found, in the substance of the parotid gland, a great number of branches of the facial nerve, the trans- verse artery of the face, the posterior auricular artery, and the vein which forms a communication between the internal and exter- nal jugular vein. It thus receives the greater part of its vessels and nerves ; but a branch of the inferior maxillary nerve and one of the ascending branches of the cervical plexus furnish it witK a few additional nerves. Its lymphatic vessels are pretty numerous,- and pass into the ganglia situated at its surface or beliind the angle of the jaw. Its parenchyma differs in nothing from that of the other salivary glands. 3