OF THli VERTEBRAL ARTERY. tracliclo-mastoidcus, and splcnius muscles, and communicate with the neighbouring arteries, while the internal penetrate into the vertebral canal, by the inter-vertebral foramina, to expand upon the spinal marrow and dura mater, anastomosing with those of the opposite side. 2391. In ite uer^/ca/c?«-oe, the vertebral artery sends internally and inferiorly of the obliquus capitis inferior a small branch, which bifurcates as it descends. One of its twigs is distribvited to the semi-spinalis colli and multifidus spinje, and the other, {Art- me- ningen posterior,) ascends under the posterior arch of the atlas, to be distributed to the dura mater. Moreover, there also separate from it some twigs for the obhquus capitis inferior and trachelo- mastoideus. 2392. In Us transverse curve, it sends a considerable number of twigs to the recti postici and obliqui capitis muscles. One of them, larger than the others, is transverse, directs itself inwards, and presently divides into two branches, one of which, anastomos- ing with that of the opposite side, constitutes a kind of arch be- tween the complexi and recti capitis postici majores muscles, wliile the other, descending obliqviely, is distributed to the latter and to the rectus posticus minor. 2393. Posterior Spinal Artery, {Art. spiyialis posterior'). It arises from the vertebral artery, near the corpora pyrami- dalia, and sometimes from the inferior cerebellar artery. It directs itself downwards and a little obliquely inwards, passes behind the spinal marrow, and continues to descend parallel to that of the opposite side, as far as the second lumbar ver- tebra. It is extremely slender. All its twigs arc ti'ansverse, and anastomose with those of the opposite side, or lose themselves upon the proper membrane of the spinal marrow, sending only some absolutely capillary ramifications to the pulpy substance of the latter. 2394. Anterior Spinal Artery {Art. spinalis anterior). It is a little larger than the preceding, and arises, internally, near the termination of the vertebral artery. It even sometimes comes from the inferior cerebellar or basilar artery. It descends in a tortuous manner upon the anterior surface of the upper extremity of the spinal maiTow, gives some ramifications to it, and unites angularly with that of the opposite side opposite the occipital foramen. There results from this union a very llexuous common trunk, which descends as fiir as the lower extremity of the spinal marrow, giving olF, to the right and left, twigs similar to those of the ■ posterior spinal arteries, and which is afterwards prolonged, without < dividing, in the midst of the nervous filaments forming the cauda ' equina, as far as the articulation of the sacrum with the coccyx, • where it terminates by anastomosing with the twigs of the lateral ! sacral arteries. 2395. Inferior Cerebellar Artery {Art. inferior cerehelli). It : arises externally from the end of the vertebral or even from the