182 PASSIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. separated from each other by cellular tissue, having a considerable resemblance to the ligamenta flava, but attached to the inner lip of the lamina} of the axis, and to the lower edge of the posterior arch of the atlas : the dura-mater of the vertebral canal covresponds to them. 594. Synovial Membranes of the Articular Processes. The articular surfices by which these processes are connected, are much larger than in any of the other vertebraa, and, like them, constitute a planiform arthrodia; but it is to be observed that those of the axis are much broader than those belonging to the atlas. Tliev are all covered by a very thin layer of cartilage, and kept in place by a synovial membrane on each side. These membranes are re- markable for their extreme looseness, which is still greater anterior- ly and posteriorly, than on the sides ; they not only embrace the articular surfaces of the processes of the atlas, but are reflected a little over their circumference. They are a little thicker than the synovial membranes of the odontoid process ; they correspond an- teriorly to the anterior atlanto-axoidal hgament; posteriorly, to adipose cellular tissue ; internally, to the odontoid synovial cap- sules and the transverse ligament; externally, to the vertebral ar- teries, over which they are reflected so as to form a sort of sheath. COMMON ARTICULATIONS OF THE VEllTKBU^,. 595. Each vertebra, from the third cervical to the last lumbar inclusive, is placed in contact with that which precedes or follows it, by its body and articular processes ; the laminae and spinous processes of all the vertebras being moreover connected by liga- ments. There resvdts from this, that the common articulations of the vertebrae present themselves vmder the appearance of an am- phiarthrosis for their bodies, and of a plain arthrodia with obscure motions for their articular processes, and that they are further strengthened by accessory ligaments, capable of great resistance. We also observe that each vertebra has, on the one hand, isolated and peculiiir means of union, as the ligamenta flava and the fibro- cartilages ; and on the other, j^articipates in the use of common organs, which extend at once over the whole vertebral column, or at least the greater part of it, such as the anterior and posterior vertebral ligaments. AUTICULATIONS OF THE HODIES OF THE VERTEBIi^. 596. Anterior common ligament {Ligamentnm comnnme anta- itis, seu Fascia longiladinalis anterior.) This ligament occujiies the anterior part of the vertebral column, from the axis to the up- per part of the sacrum. It is membraniform and of a glistening ajjpearance, and presents very distinct longitudinal stria?, which