CCELIAC PLEXUS. 539 plexus is only composed of a few filaments. When it sends a branch to the Uver, the plexus divides for the purpose of accompanying it; but more commonly it continues, without interruption, its course along the small curvature of the stomach, spreading successively, over the two surfaces of that viscus, filaments which anastomose fre- quently with those of the pneumo-gastric nerves (1712). Near to the pylorus, the number of these filaments becomes much reduced. JThe upper join the hepatic plexus (1916), and the lower form a plexus which spreads out upon the fore part of the right gastro- epiploic artery. 1916. Hepatic plexus. This is much larger than the preced- ing. Belonging to the hepatic artery and vena portas, it directs itself along with it towards the fissure of the liver, and divides, :above the pylorus, into two portions. The inferior gains the posterior side of the right gastro-epiploic \artery, anastomoses with the filaments which the coronary plexus of the stomach sends before it (1915), and accompanies it in the nmanner of a nervous sheath. As it passes under the great curva- ture of the stomach, there are detached from it numerous filaments vwhich go to that viscus, while others penetrate into the pancreas along with the arteries which are distributed there, and some also ;:go to the duodenum. The upper portion of the hepatic plexus, which is much larger [ than the lower, presenting very small ganglia in its whole course, c expands on arriving at the neck of the gall-bladder, which is sur- rounded on all sides by its interlaced filaments, without their being nmuch prolonged upon the organ itself, in the walls of which a cer- tJtain number of them are distributed. It forms a small secondary pplexus around the pyloric artery, and thus communicates with the fifilaments which terminate the coronary plexus of the stomach above. > Some of its ramifications accompany the ductus communis choledo- i chus to the duodenum ; but the greater number throw themselves ii into the substance of the liver, along with the roots of the hepatic (i duct, and the branches of the hepatic artery and vena portas. In ; the foetus, some filaments of this portion of the plexus are united to t the umbilical vein, and accompany it to the placenta. The hepatic plexus receives numerous filaments of the termina- tition of the right pneumo-gastric nerve ; but it does not itself fur- I Bish all the nerves of the liver, for the convex part of the right "«semilvmar ganglion sends, directly to that viscus, several filaments ■ ■"'hich pass under its small lobe, and form a plexus of themselves. 1917. Splenic Pie jous. This is a compound of only a very small number of filaments, and disproportionate to tlie size of the ar- t tery which it embraces. At its origin, it presents two or three II pretty large gangha, from which proceed filaments which run It alongside of each other, without being interrupted by new ganglia, »i and anastomose but very rarely with each other. Several of these filaments penetrate into the pancreas along with arterial twigs; ilie others wmd round the splenic artery, and enter with it into the