ORGANIZATION OF THK COLON. 617 ■Iitself, ill such a manner as to project into the coecum before being . continued into the same membranes of that intestine and of the i-colon. There results from this that it is formed of four mucous llaminas, two for each of its lips, and that in their interval there I occurs cellular tissue. But moreover, there is observed in the lower Hip, a layer of strong muscular fibres of a whitish colour, which are (continuous with those of the small intestine. 2191. The appendix vermiformis is exactly similar to the rest (of the ccecum in its structure; only its fleshy coat is very thick, land principally formed of longitudinal fibres. It is from it that < $he three bands of the intestine seem to come, as we have said. OF THE COLON.* CONFORMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2192. The Colon forms the most considerable portion of the \ large intestine. It extends from the right iliac region to the left^ i between the ccecum and the rectum, with which it is continuous, i and describing various turns which have caused it to be divided i into four portions : 1°. The Right Lumbar or Ascending Colon ; '. 2°. The Arch of the Colon or Transverse Colon; 3°. The Left Immhar or Descending Colon ; 4°. The Sigmoid Flexure or Left Iliac Colon. 2193. The Ascending Colon commences at the ccecum, and ascends vertically and a little backwards to near the edge of the corresponding false ribs. Anteriorly, it is covered by the peri- toneum and small intestine; j^osteriorly, it corresponds immedi- ately to the quadratus lumborum and kidney of the right side; internally, it is connected with the inferior lamina of the trans- verse mesocolon and the right lamina of the mesentery (2180) ; externally, it is applied against the walls of the abdomen. Its volume does not much exceed that of the small intestine. Its mobihty is not great, on account of its being connected with the kidney and quadratus lumborum by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Sometimes, however, the peritoneum forms for it, posteriorly, a more or less loose fold, which is named the Right Lumbar Mesocolon. 2194. The Arch of the Colon occupies the anterior and inferior region of the epigastrium, beneath the stomach, above the small mtestine, behind the great omentum and before the transverse mesocolon. It commonly proceeds directly from one hypochondrium to the other; but sometimes also it is inflected in the middle and descends into the umbilical region. This is the longest and largest of the four portions of the colon. Its upper surface is free and smooth; it corresponds to the liver and the great curvature of the t KwX«v ol' tlic Greeks, I'lom Ku^vu, perldhco.