ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 288 towards the base of the cranium, so as to form a sort of arch. They are attached to a thin yet firm aponeurosis (the cephalo-pha- ryngeal)^ which is attached to the basilar process, but only by its extremities, so as to leave an empty space between the bone and its middle part. The other fibres proceed in a transverse di- rection, to be interlaced with those of the opposite muscle in the middle of the posterior part of the pharynx. 1034<. The outer surface of this muscle is covered posteriorly by the constrictor medius, and laterally is in connexion with the stylo-glossus, stylo-pharyngaeus, the internal carotid artery, the in- ternal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric, hypo-glossal and spinal accessory nerves, and several filaments of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These different parts are contained in a triangular space, filled with cellular tissue, which occurs between the constrictor pharyngis superior and pterygoideus in- ternus. Its inner surface covers the palato-pharyngaeus and le- vator palati mollis, and is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. 1035. From the description of these muscles, it will be seen that they all three cover each other, in such a manner that the lower only remains visible in its whole extent, and they also all unite in the middle of the pharynx with those of the opposite side by a sort of raph6. 1036. The constrictors of the pharynx contract that portion of the digestive canal when it is filled with alimentary substances. The constrictor medius moreover raises the os hyoides and la- rynx, carrying them backwards, and the inferior raises a little the larynx only. OF THE STYLO-PHAKYNG-^EUS. 1037- The Stylo-pharyngcBus is narrow above, broad and flat below, and of an elongated form. It is situated on the side and back part of the pharynx. It arises by short aponeurotic fibres, from the inner part of the styloid process of the temporal bone, near its base, and descends inwards and backwards toward the pha- rynx, passes under the constrictor medius, expands, confounds the greater part of its fibres with those of the other muscles of this region, and sends some to the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone. 1038. Its Older surface is covered by the stylo-hyoideus, con- strictor pharyngis medius, and external carotid artery. The inner is in connexion with the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the membrane of the pharynx, and the constrictor superior and palato-pharyngiEUs muscles. 1039. This muscle shortens the pharynx by raising its lower part. It also raises the larynx. 1040. In order to dissect these muscles of the pharynx, it is ne- cessary, after having removed the skull-cap and brain, to ctft