838 APPENDIX. ric vessels, the coronary vessels of the stomach, and the cystic and hepatic ducts, and ductus communis choledochus. This lamina then directs itself over the whole posterior surface of the stomach, de- scends behind the gastro-epiploic vessels, applies itself upon the portion of the peritoneum which has embraced the spleen and the anterior surface of the stomach, arrives along with it as far as the in- ferior edge of the great omentum, and afterwards ascends towards the convex edge of the arch of the colon. It then leaves this first lamina, covers the upper surface of the colon, forming the upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon (2194), and passes above the pancreas and duodenum, the base of the crura of the diaphragm, the vena cava and lobulus Spigelii. At length it passes through the foramen of Winslow, and is continued over the concave sur- face of the right lobe of the Uver. In following this course, the lamina of the peritoneum of which we have been speaking forms the walls of a large ovoidal cavity, the Posterior Cavity of the Omenta. It is thus to the peritoneum what the arachnoid membrane is to the portion of that membrane which penetrates into the ventricles of the brain (1590). This ca- vity, which has no other issue than the foramen of Winslow, is formed anteriorly and from above downwards by the hepato-gastric omentum, the posterior surface of the stomach, the two lamell{E of the anterior lamina of the great omentum. Posteriorly, and from beneath upwards, it is formed by the two lamellae of the posterior lamina of the great omentum, the upper surface of the arch of the colon, the upper lamma of the transverse mesocolon, and its pro- longation towards the lobulus Spigelii. 3078. Organization and General Relations of the Peritoneum. The peritoneum has precisely the same structure as the other serous membranes which we have already examined. It is in general very thin, although not equally so in all its parts. Its thickness is great- er in the loins and behind the anterior wall of the abdomen than any where else. Upon the liver, spleen, stomach, and intestines, and especially in the omenta, the thinness of this membrane is ex- treme. Nor is its adhesion to the organs which it invests uniform in all parts. It is very decided upon the liver, spleen, and intestines, ■with the exception of the duodenum ; but is much less so upon the pancreas, bladder, uterus and vagina, as well as upon the dia- phragm and the walls of the abdomen, which is especially remark- able in the lumbar regions and before the kidneys. In general, at the level of these different parts, in the excavation of the pelvis, the peritoneum has beneath it a great quantity of adipose cellular tis- sue. It also contains much of that substance in the difierent folds which it forms, as the mesentery, mesocolon, &c.