OF THE LIVER. 787 (Lobus major seu dexter), and the Small or Left Lobe (Lo/ms minor seu sinister). 2895. Inferior Surface of the Liver. This surfoce is of less extent than the upper, very irregularly concave, and inclined a little backwards. It presents from left to right the following parts : 1°. A broad and superficial depression, which belongs to the left lobe, and rests upon the upper surface of the stomach. 2°. The LongitudinalJissure (Sulcus longitudinalis seu umbi- licalis seu horizontalis), passing from before backwards, and se- parating the two lobes below, as the suspensory ligament does above. This groove is more or less deep, and in its lower half is pretty frequently converted into a true canal by a portion of the substance of the liver, which passes from one lobe to the other (pons hepatis). In the fcetus, it lodges anteriorly the umbilical vein, and posteriorly the ductus venosus ; and in the adult it is oc- cupied by the fibrous cords which are formed by the remains of these obliterated vessels. 3°. The Tra7isverse Fissure (Sulcus transversus seu vence portce). This is a fissure less deep and shorter than the preced- ing, which it intersects at right angles, and which follows the di- rection of the great diameter of the liver. It occupies about the middle third of that organ, a Uttle nearer its posterior than its an- terior edge. It commences upon the right lobe by a sort of nar- row slit, then enlarges much as it proceeds towards the left side, but never presents the appearance of a canal. It lodges the sinus of the vena portae (2757)) the hepatic artery (2518), the roots of the hepatic duct, and a great number of nervous filaments and lymphatic vessels. AU these parts are connected together by a kind of dense, compact, and fibrous sheath (Capsule of Glisson), -, 4°. The Groove of the Vena Cava Inferior (Sulcus lo7igitu- ■ dinalis dexter). It is situated behind, near the convex edge of the liver. It is very short, but remarkably deep, and often con- verted into a true canal (2737)- 5°. The Lobulus Spigelii (Posterior Portal Eminence). This is a kind of mammillary eminence of very great size, which is placed behind the transverse groove of the liver, in the posterior cavity of the peritoneum, beneath the gastro-hepatic omentum. Its form, which is subject to considerable variation, is more commonly that of a more or less obtuse triangular pyramid. A prolongation (lo- bulus candatus) passes from its base to the right lobe of the liver. The lobulus Spigelii rests posteriorly upon the vertebral column, between the vena cava inferior and the oesophagus, and looks as if squeezed between the two orifices of the stomach, the pancreas, and the rest of the liver. 6". The Lobulus Quadratus (Anterior Portal Eminence). It is of less size than the preceding, broad, and little elevated. It separates the anterior half of the longitudinal fissure from a super- ficial fossa of an oval form, which lodges the gall-bladder. T- Two superficial depressions, of which the anterior corrcs-