ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 270 stirface is separated posteriorly from the coronoid process, and from the lower part of the temporal muscle; and in the middle, from the masseter. Anteriorly, it is covered by the zygomaticus major, platysma myoides, and triangularis muscles, by the skin, labial artery and vein. A kind of whitish membrane, formed of a fibrous cellular tissue, also covers it in its whole extent, adhering intimately to it, and prevents the buccal glands from being imme- diately applied upon it posteriorly. The inner surface is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Opposite the third molar tooth, it is obliquely traversed by the duct of the parotid gland. 941. It draws the commissure of the lips backwards, and con- tributes to mastication, by keeping the food between the teeth. If the mouth is filled with air which distends the cheeks, it com* presses it and drives it out, as in the action of blowing, sounding a trumpet, &c. 942. The anterior part of the buccinator muscle may be imme- diately shown, by removing the cellular and adipose tissue which covers it; but, at its origin, it can only be exposed by removing the ramus of the lower jaw, or by dissecting it from within outr wards. or THE MASSETEU.* 943. The Masseter lies upon the outer surface of the lower jaw. It arises from the two anterior and outer thirds of the inferior edge of the zygomatic arch, from the posterior part of the same edge, from the inner surface of the arch, and at the same time a little from the internal aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. These ori- gins take place in a distinct manner; the first, by a very strong, broad, and thick aponeurosis, which covers the outer svu-face of the muscle to beyond its middle part, and is divided into several digitations which are interposed between its fleshy fibres ; the se- cond, by small aponeurotic bundles, which are much shorter ; the third by small fibrous planes of still less extent. The fleshy fibres which come from these three points follow different directions; the first, which constitute the principal part of the muscle, pass ob- liquely downwards and backwards, to be inserted at the outside of the angle of the lower jaw, by small aponeurotic laminae ; the se- cond descend vertically, and are attached a little higher ; the third proceed obliquely downwards and forwards to terminate on the out- side of the coronoid process by other aponeuroses. 944. The external surface of this muscle is covered posteriorly by the parotid gland; below, by the platysma myoides; in the middle by Steno's duct, the facial nerve, and the transverse facial artery; anteriorly and above, by the orbicularis palpebrarum and zygomaticus major. All the other parts of this surface are in con- * Metr ue/ixi; cotncdo.