ORGANIZATION OF THE UTERUS. 8il5 (!hs) is rounded, transverse, a little convex in the direction of its lengtli, and covered by the peritoneum. By its union with the lateral edges, it produces two slightly projecting angles, in the mid- dle part of which terminate the Fallopian tubes, above the inser- tion of the ligament of the ovarium which is behind, and of that of the round ligament which is before. 3039. Neck of the Uterus. It is almost insensibly continuous at the exterior with the body. Its length is from ten to twelve 4ines, its antero-posterior diameter from six to eight, and the trans- verse from eight to ten. Slightly inflated at its middle part, it is compressed from before backwards and of a somewhat cylindrical form. Its upper part is embraced by the vagina; the rest pro- jects into that canal. This latter portion, which is more or less prominent, presents at its summit a transverse slit {os tinccB) bounded by two rounded lips, (labia) placed close to each other, and distinguished into anterior and posterior. The latter is al- ways thinner than the other. Both are smooth and rounded in • women who have not had children, and on the contrary wrinkled : and as if lacerated in those who have been repeatedly brought to •^=bed. 3040. Cavity of the Uterus. This cavity is very small in pro- portion to the volume of the organ, which necessarily supposes a ^ great thickness of wall. It occupies the body and neck, and ter- minates inferiorly at the slit of the os tineas. The portion of this cavity, which corresponds to the body, is triangular and flattened; its edges are curvilinear, and its upper angles present the extreme- ly minute orifices of the Fallopian tubes. Each of its surfaces is longitudinally traversed by a line which does not project much. The cavity of the neck is continuous with that of the body. It is nearly cylindrical, a little compressed however from before back- wards, and slightly dilated before opening into the vagina. It pre- sents, upon its anterior and posterior walls, the continuation of the prominent vertical lines of which we have just made mention, toge- ther with some scarcely perceptible transverse rugae. ORGANIZATION OF THE UTERUS. 3041. The uterus is composed of an external or serous mem- brane, an internal raucous membrane, an intermediate proper tissue, ' nerves and vessels. 3042. Scrolls Membrane. It is formed by the peritoneum, which, from the anterior surface of the rectum and the posterior surface of the bladder, is reflected over the uterus, to which it forms an envelope adhering pretty firmly along the upper edge, but se- parated from the tissue of the organ upon the two surfaces by a great quantity of vessels and by a layer of dense cellular tissue, destitute of fat. .3043. Mueous Membrane. It is a prolongation of that of the