OF THE CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC AND CRUUAL AllTICllIKS. 7'21 tus nuiscle, and outwards to the broad muscles of the abdomen. They furnish numerous ramifications to tlic peritoneum, and anas- tomose with the lumbar and last intercostal arteries. The termi- nating twigs communicate with those of the internal mammary ar- tery. OF THE CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY. (Art. Circumfleooa ilei). 2606. It comes oft' from the outer part of the external iliac, sometimes beneath, sometimes opposite the preceding, which it commonly equals in size. Immersed in an abundant cellular tissue, and concealed by the peritoneum, it ascends obliquely outwards, cui'ving a little along the outer edge of the iliacus internus muscle, until above the anterior and superior spine of the ileum. Then threcting itself backwards, it separates into two branches, after giving off external twigs, which lose themselves in the transversus abdominis muscle, and internal tivigs, which are spread out upon the iliacus muscle, anastomosing with the ileo-lumbar artery. 2607. Of the two branches which terminate this artery, the ex- ternal is smaller, and ascends between the transversus and obli- quus internus abdominis muscles, in which it loses itself. The internal, which is larger and transverse, runs for some extent along the iliac crest, and afterwards ascends a little obliquely backwards, between the transversus and obliquus internus abdominis muscles, in which it divides, as well as in the obliquus externus, anastomos- ing with the internal mammary artery, the lumbar and inferior in- tercostal arteries. OF THE FEMORAL OR CRURAL ARTERY. {Art. cruralis seu femoralis communis). 2608. Immediately succeeding the external iliac artery, it com- mences under the crural arch, nearly at the middle of the space which separates the anterior and superior spine of the ileum from the spine of the pubes. Directed at first a little obliquely at the inner and upper part of the thigh, it bends backwards descending, and, about the lower third of the thigh, enters into the aponeu- rotic groove of the adductor magnus muscle (1356), on emerging from which it assumes the name of popliteal artery. It therefore extends from the middle of the crural arch to the end of the fleshy body of the adductor magnus. As the femoral artery is passing through the adductor magnus it gives oft' a branch, {ramus o,nas- iomoticus), which descends towards the inner condyle, along the round tendon of the adductor, where it anastomoses with the iu- ternal articular artery. 3 A