410 ORGANS OF SENSATION. it is closed by the arachnoid membrane ; posteriorly, it communi- cates with a transverse fissure, of which we shall presently speak. Towards the point of union of these two fissures, there is a whitish space {substayitia 'perforata antica,) perforated with several aper- tures which admit vessels of considerable size, thus presenting an arrangement of rare occurrence at the surface of the brain. This- white surface also presents some striae, and ascends towards the corpus callosum, with which it seems to be continuous. Between the two fissures of Sylvius, is the commissure of the optic nerves, from the upper surface of which there is seen to rise a grayish membrane, of a pulpy consistence and yet pretty firm, transparent and furnished with but few vessels, which closes the anterior extremity of the third ventricle, and proceeds to the ante- rior and inferior part of the corpus callosum. Behind the commissure of the optic nerve is a grayish tubercle, {Tuber cinereum), which is connected with these nerves, under which it sinks a little, and is prolonged posteriorly as far as the mammillary eminences, which are as it were enveloped by it. It forms a part of the floor of the third ventricle, and contains in its centre a small nucleus of white substance. From the middle of this tubercle, descends obliquely forwards the infundihulum, a sort of thin, slender, conical prolongation, of a reddish colour, which passes under the commissure of the optic nerves, and terminates by its summit, in a small soft body, lodged in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone (115). It is not hollow internally, as several authors have supposed, and it is invested by an envelope furnished by the arachnoid membrane. The small organ in which the infundihulum ends, bears the name of Pituitary Gland or body, {hypophysis cerebri). Its structure and uses are not yet well known ; it is rounded and transversely elon- gated, and rests upon the dura mater, which surrounds it on all sides, excepting at its upper part, on which the arachnoid membrane is expanded. It does not present the uniform vascular structure peculiar to glands, but is evidently composed of two portions, in- timately connected, yet distinct. The first of these portions, which is the largest, is anterior; it is of a grayish yellow colour, convex before, notched behind, and of the form of a kidney. The poste- rior, which is smaller, is soft, pulpy, and impregnated with a whitish viscid fluid. The pituitary gland is traversed by some blood-ves- sels ; it sometimes contains small calculous concretions. The Mammillary or Pisiform Tubercles, {Corpora Albicantia,) are situated behind the gray substance from which the infundihu- lum takes its rise. They have the form and size of a pea, are white externally, of a gray colour within, and are vinited to each other by a small grayish band which is easily torn, and which con- tributes to form the floor of the third ventricle. It is in them that the anterior prolongations of the fornix end- Farther back, between the crura cerebri, there is a triangular excavation, the bottom of which, filled by white substance, also