OF THE AUDITORY NERVE. individual varieties, aud seldom oflbrs the same arrangement in two different subjects. That which wc have described, however, is its most common disposition. On account of its very numerous anastomoses, several authors have called it the Small sympathetic 7ierve. OF THE POETIC MOLLIS OF THE SEVENTH VAIR. {Nervus auditorius sive acusticus. *) 1690. This Nerve arises transversely over the restiform body, from the substance of a small gray band, a Uttle prominent, which constantly covers the base of this nerve, and unites it to the floor of the fourth ventricle. Most commonly some of its roots traverse this cord, aud are manifestly continued into the two uppermost of the white strioe which are observed upon the sides of the calamus scriptorius (1513). There is observed, moreover, a kind of small band which seems to vmite the two origins of the acoustic nerves, and furnish them with a commissure. It is covered by the poste- rior layer of the protuberance. The acoustic nerve begins to be separated from the substance of the brain in a small excavation, nearly of a triangular form, placed between the olivary eminence, the crus of the cerebellum, the cerebral protuberance and the restiform body. This excavation also contains the facial nerve, which, besides its distinct origin, is further separated from the acoustic nerve by a small process of the meduUa oblongata, which passes between them, and by some small vessels. Thus far the nerve is soft and pulpy ; but it now assumes the appearance of the other nerves, that is to say, it is composed of numerous filaments, invested by a neurilema. It is of a size equal to that of the third nerve, and becomes more consistent than the olfactory nerve, but it nevertheless remains softer than the other nerves. In proportion as it retires from the encephalon, it forms a flat- tened cord, as it were roUed up upon itself, and marked internally by a gi-oove in which the trunk of the facial nerve is lodged. All ■the filaments which enter into its composition are very delicate, and anastomose with each other, so as to form a very comphcated and dense plexus. Only at its back part, there is observed, almost "J?^ commencement, a whiter and softer cord than the rest, ^ich IS not formed of filaments ; it seems homogeneous and pulpy. Moreover, the intermediate filaments which commonly direct them- selves towards the facial nerve, and of which we have made men- T^Z intermingle with its own filaments, after formmg a small plexus by themselves. ^ * A'xiiii, audio.