MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. 289 he oesopliagiis and trachea opposite the upper part of the sternum, ,nd separate tliem from the anterior part of the cervical vertebrae, \y cutting the loose cellular tissue by which they are connected to t;. then, with a saw, remove that portion of the head situated an- sriorly to the occipital foramen, which, with the pharynx attached 0 it, is thus obtained separate. All that remains to be done is to stuff the pharynx and oesopha- ■us with hair, and to remove the cellular tissue, vessels, and nerves rith which they are surrounded. OF THE CIIICUMFLEXUS PALAfl. 1041. The Circumflescus Palati (Peristaphylinus* Externus), s found in the substance of the velum of the palate, and is an elon- gated, thin, transversely flattened muscle, bent in the middle. It .rises, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, from the scaphoid fossa f the pterygoid process (114), the fore and outer part of the fibro- lartUage of the Eustachian tube, and the parts in the neighbour- lood of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, as far as its spine, ^'rom these origins it descends vertically along the posterior edge f the inner wing of the pterygoid process, and turns under the look by which it terminates, after having degenerated into an iponeurosis, which is wrinkled upon itself at the moment of thia eflection, and kept in place by a small ligament. A small ;ynovial capsule facihtates its motions. After this, it proceeds lorizontally inwards, is expanded in the velum palati, before the evator palati mollis, unites with its fellow, and terminates at the ransverse ridge, which is observed upon the inferior surface of the lorizontal portion of the palate bone (211). There it sends off a )rolongation to a dense and compact membrane, which seems to ceep the velum palati firm at its upper part. 1042. The fleshy portion of this muscle, which is fusiform, is covered, eocternally, by the pterygoideus internus. Its inner lurface is applied against the levator palati mollis and constrictor iharyngis superior, and against the inner wing of the pterygoid )rocess. Its aponeurotic portion is covered anteriorly, by the nucous membrane of the velum palati. Posteriorly, it is con- lected with the palato-pharyngeus. 1043. This muscle stretches the velum palati horizontally, and nay dilate the Eustachian tube, as Haller supposes. OF THE LEVATOR. PALATI MOLLIS. (Feristaphylinus Internus.) 1044. Although this muscle is slender, it is yet stronger than ;he preceding, and is of an elongated form, round above, broader " Tlij*', circd, proj/i ; 2rufuKn, uvula. U