APPENDIX. separation, the peritoneum is applied superiorly upon the ante- rior surface of the rectum; but above, it also'covers its lateral surfaces, and constitutes behind it the Mesorcctum (2208), of which the upper extremity is continuous with the Iliac Mesocolon (2199). In the female, the peritoneum passes from the bladder over the vagina, before which it forms two semilunar folds and an interme- diate cul-de-sac, similar to those which in the male, occur be- tween the rectum and bladder, but less distinct. It then invests the anterior surface, the upper edge and posterior surface of the uterus, and a portion of the corresponding wall of the vagina, prolonging itself to the right and left to form i\\e Broad Ligaments (3046). From thence, it gains the rectum, and presents the same disposition as in the male. The peritoneum then ascends before the sacro-vertebral articu- lation, and unites with the lamina which forms the mesentery. We have examined the course of the peritoneum in the middle part of the hypogastric region; let us now follow it upon the sides of that region. It is at first seen reflecting itself from the walls of the abdomen over each iliac fossa, covering a part of the iliacus and psoa3 muscles, embracing to the left the sigmoid flexure of the colon by means of the Iliac Mesocolon^ and to the right the coecum and its appendages by means of the Mesoccecum (2187). From thence it ascends forwards behind Poupart's ligament, and forms two depressions on each side, called the Inguinal Fossce, which are distinguished into internal and external. These fossae are separated from each other by the fold of the membrane which the umbilical artery supports. The external, which is wider, is generally triangular. At the bottom of its summit, which is di- rected downwards and inwards, the peritoneum is seen to dive a little into the internal orifice of the inguinal canal (1262). Pos- teriorly the peritoneum, which has invested the iUac fossje, ascends to be continued into the lumbar mesocola. 3076. Epigastric Portion of the Peritoneum. Of much greater extent, and more complicated than the other two, it ex- hibits a different disposition to the right, to the left, and in the middle. 1°. To the left, the peritoneum invests a considerable part of the inferior surface of the diaphragm, and sinks into the most re- tired region of the hypochondrium as far as the vertebral column, whence it is successively reflected over the posterior surface of the splenic vessels, the posterior half of the inner surface of the spleen, its outer surface, its whole circumference, and the anterior half of its inner surface. There, it meets the splenic vessels a second time near the fissure of the spleen, passes over their anterior part, gains the cardiac extremity of the stomach, and is continued into the anterior lamina of the great omentum. These lamina? of the peritoneum of which we have just been speaking, and which arc