BONES IN THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. rticulated posteriorly to the incus by means of two slight dcpres- ious separated by a prominence, and covered by a very thin car- ilage. The neck is a kind of contraction placed between the head -nd the handle; it is very short, but pretty thick, inclined out- wards, and is free posteriorly and internally; anteriorly, it svip- morts a very elongated slender process (process of Raw), which ■raverses the glenoid fissure, and gives attachment by its summit 10 the anterior muscle of the malleus. The handle, which is much ;iiarrower than the neck, forms with it an obtuse angle, retiring in-t ivards ; its inferior extremity, which is thin and rounded, is inclined forwards, and corresponds to the centre of the membrana tympani; rora the superior there issues externally a short and narrow pro- t;ess, which directs itself a little backwards, and gives attachment mo the internal muscle of the malleus. In its whole extent the landle is sUghtly compressed from before backwards, and forms line of the radii of the membrana tympani, against which it is fixed ivy the mucous membrane of the cavity, covering it internally. 2019. Of the Incus. Situated beside the malleus, and behind t.;, the incus corresponds to the posterior and external parts of the ;uivity of the tympanum, towards the orifice of the mastoid cells •22011). A little thicker, but shorter than the malleus, it bears a i>onsiderable resemblance to a molar tooth with two widely sepa- lated roots. There are distinguished in it a body and two branches. The Body forms its anterior part; it is directed a little upwards, imd represents a transversely flattened ovoid, having its greatest iiameter vertical; its inner surface is a little concave, and the imter convex; the anterior, for its articulation with the malleus, nresents two unequal tubercles, of which the upper is the larger, eparated by an intermediate depression, and encrusted with a thin artUage. The Superior Branch is horizontal, shorter, thick, co- lical, and flattened ; its summit corresponds to the entrance of the nastoid cells. The Inferior Bi-anch, which is longer, more slen- lerj descending vertically, rounded, nearly parallel to the handle )f the malleus, and about half a line distant from the membrana -ympani, presents at its summit, which is bent inwards, a slight ;avity which is articulated with the os lenticulare. 2020. Of the Os Lenticulare {Os Orbiculare). Much smaller han the other three, rounded, and slightly convex on its two sur- "aces, it is interposed between the long branch of the incus and he head of the stapes, and is articulated with these two parts.* 2021. Of the Stapes. It presents exactly the form of a stir- ^p, and is placed horizontally between the os lenticulare and the enestra ovalis. There are distinguished in it a head, two branches, ind a base. The Head, which is very small, and situated exter- lally, is supported by a very short neck, which results from the jnion of the two branches, and gives attacliment to a small muscle; • This bone is gcnuially connected to the inferior branch of tlic incus by one or wo stnall processes of bone.