OF THE SUTERIOR EXTREMITIES IN GENERAL. 145 muscles; the internal, which is depressed at its upper part, and even almost entirely effaced toward the middle for the passage of the crural artery, which runs across it, gives attachment to the viistus internus and adductor magnus. These two lines are sepa- rated by a triangular flattened surface, which corresponds to the popliteal vessels and nerves, and is limited at its lower part, and laterally by rough impressions, which are placed immediately above the posterior extremity of the condyles, and which give at- tachment to the tendons of the gastrocnemius externus muscle. 494. The Upper, or Pelvic Extremity. This extremity, which is angularly curved from its union with the body of the bone, and of a very irregular form, presents three large processes. One of these, which is the largest and highest of the three, is called the Head {caput ossis femoris). It is of a spherical form, and is di- rected obliquely upwards, inwards, and a little forwards. At the^ middle, or a little below it, there is observed a small ragged and uneven depression, which gives attachment to the round ligament of the hip joint. This head is covered with cartilage, and is arti- culated with the cotyloid cavity of the os innominatum ; it is sup- ported by a long Neck, {coUicm), flattened from before backwards, I which forms a more or less obtuse angle outwards with the axis of the body of the bone.* It is longer and smaller below and behind, than above and before. The head is separated from the neck by a variously contorted line, which corresponds to the circumference of the cartilage by which the head is invested. Two other broad and scabrous lines, directed obliquely inwards and downwards, pro- ceeding from the great to the small trochanter, and situated the one before, (linea intertrochunterica anterior), the other behind, {lima inter trochanter ica posterior), the base of the neck, indicate its junction with the body of the bone, and give attachment to the 1 capsular ligament. The part of the neck Avhich is next the head, f is rounded and smaller ; in the rest of its extent, it has the form of ! a triangular prism, with very blunt angles. ! 495. The second process of the upper extremity of the femur is J named the Great Trochanter,(Trochanter Major). It is a 3 broad, thick, rough, quadrilateral eminence, flattened from within !, outwards, occupying the outermost part of this region of the fe- ). mur, and situated at a lower level than the head. The Outer Sur- g(l face of this process is broad and convex ; it is covered by the ten- tt|| don of the gluteus maximus, from which it is separated by a syno- vial bursa. It is terminated below by a rather prominent ridge, which gives attachment to the vastus externus muscle. Its hmcr • riiis angle cliHiigcs with age, until at last the head sinks below the level of the Irochanicr iMajor; it changes also its level, the neck shortens and the head of the bone becomes .?t.s.vi/c, to nse the lan«uago of Botanists, from the disease termed by Mr. IJ. Bell '< Interstitial Absorption'," and lias been in this condition, fre<iuently mistaken l)y Snrgcons for cases of fracture of the neck of the bone which had heal, ed by osseous tniion. Sec " Remarks on Interstitial Absorption of the neck of the tliigb bone. By Uenjamin Bell, .Snrgeon." Edin. 1821. t 1 fX'-nn/' fi'.yxi of the Greeks, from Tpo;^,,;, a wheel.