OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. S27 fat. It is also between these two laminae that there are placed, on each side and superiorly, the Fallopian tubes, then beneath, ante- riorly the round ligament, and posteriorly the ovary. The tube occupies the free edge of the ligaments ; the other two organs raise each of their surfaces angularly, and thus form two smaller folds which are named little wings. OF THE ROUND LIGAMENTS. 3047. The Bound Ligaments (Ligamenta uteri rotunda) arise from the lateral, superior and anterior part of the uterus, beneath and before the insertion of the tubes. They direct themselves from thence towards the inguinal ring, pass through it, and terminate by expanding in the cellular tissue of the groins, Mons Veneris, and labia pudendi. The structure of these organs is little known. They are whitish, rather dense, flattened, narrower at the middle part than at their extremities. There are distinguished in their substance longitudi- nal fibres, which for a long time were beUeved to be muscular, but ■which appear to be nothing but condensed cellular tissue. Many tortuous vessels creep among these fibres. Fallopius asserts that these cords are enveloped by a kind of cremaster muscle, but I have never been able to see this disposition. OF THE FALLOPIAM OK UTERINE TUBES. 3048. The Fallopian Tubes {Tuhce uterincB sive Fallopiance) are two canals floating in the abdomen and placed along the upper edge, and in the duplicature of the broad ligaments. They extend from the upper angles of the cavity of the uterus to near the sides of the upper strait of jhe pelvis, and are thus each four or five inches in length. In the inner half of their length, they are straight and of very small diameter, for they scarcely equal the vas deferens at its commencement. They afterwards acquire the size of a writ- ing quill, and become flexuous. A little before terminating, they contract again and seem strangled. Their free extremity is wide, floating, and fringed, hence called the fimbriated extremity of the tube {Morsus Diaholi.) Among the fimbrite of this part, one is observed, a little longer than the rest, which is attached to the corresponding extremity of the ovary. The surface of the fim- briated extremity of the tube is generally directed backwards. 3049- In their interior, the Fallopian tubes contain a canal which commences at the upper angle of the cavity of the uterus. Al- most capillary in its first half, it afterwards dilates and opens at the surface of the fibriated extremity by a very small orifice, {os- tium abdominale), the only place in the whole body ichere a se-