ORGANS OF SENSATION. 590 ARTICLE FIFTH. OF THE SKIN. 2085. The Skin constitutes the general envelope of the body, under the form of a dense, compact, firm membrane, of consider- able thickness, very flexible, very extensible, possessed of great sensibility, exposed to the immediate contact of the air, and conti- nuous with the mucous membranes opposite the eyes, nostrils, ears, mouth, anus, and genital organs, by orifices of greater or less size, but always furnished with more or less strong and appa- rent hairs. 2086. The outer surface of the skin is surmounted by a great number of small eminences resembling papillae, and furrowed with a mviltitude of wrinkles, some depending upon the action of mus- cles, as on the forehead and eyebrows, in the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot; others produced by the rows of papillae, as at the extremities of the fingers and toes, or by the presence of an articulation; or, lastly, by a particular disposition of the cellular tissue, as in the neck. This surface is covered with hairs which vary according to the regions which they occupy, and which do not exist at all the pe- riods of life. It presents moreover a multitude of pores, which are the excretory orifices of sebaceous follicles. 2087- The colour of the skin is not the same in the different nations distributed over the globe, and even varies in individuals. It is black in the negro, copper-coloured in the American, tawny in the Arab, white in the European. In general, also, this mem- brane is finer and whiter in women and children, than in adults and men. In old people, it becomes dry and shrivelled. 2088. The inner surface of the skin is connected with the dif- ferent parts which it covers by a cellular tissue, the nature and disposition of which are not the same in the whole extent of the body. It is in general filled with adipose vesicles (781) ; but, in some parts, absolutely destitute of them, as in the eyelids, scrotum, penis, &c. The adhesion of the skin to the subjacent organs is subject to similar variations, being frequently slight, as in the neck and belly, while at other times this membrane fur- nishes points of attachment to muscles, as on the forehead, and eyebrow, and in the palm of the hand. 2089. The skin is composed of three very distinct layers, the dermis or cJiorion, the retc mucosicm, and the epidermis or cu- tide.