OF THE INFEUIOU PHARYNGEAL ARTERY. 657 2326. But previous to its bifurcation, the artery sends some small twigs into the parotid gland, the stylo-hyoideus and digastri- cus muscles, and the walls of the auditory canal. It also furnishes the Stylo mastoid Artery, which sometimes comes from the occipi- tal, and which, after seudmg some ramifications into the auditory canal and upon the membrana tympani, enters, by the stylo-mas- toid foramen, into the aqueduct of Fallopius, runs along it, spreads out its subdivisions in the mucous membrane of the tympanum, the mslstoid cells, the semicircular canals, the muscle of the stapes, the periosteum of the aqueduct itself, &c. where it terminates by anastomosing with a twig of the middle meningeal artery, which has penetrated by the hiatus of Fallopius. INFKlllOR I'HARYNGKAL ARTEllY. (Arteria Fhary7igea.) 2327- This branch is smaller than the posterior auricular artery, and is more deeply situated than the other branches of the external carotid, from which it arises at the same level as the facial. It as- cends at first vertically along the lateral and posterior part of the pharynx, between the external and internal carotids, covered below by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and above by the constrictor su- perior. 2328. After a short course, and after furnishing some irregular twigs which descend obliquely behind the pharynx and in its con- strictor muscles, this artery divides into two branches of equal size. 2329. Pharyngeal Branch. Lying transversely upon the con- strictor pharyngis superior, it divides into two or three twigs, of which one is distributed to that muscle, ascending in its substance, while the others, proceeding obliquely downwards, lose themselves in the two corresponding middle and inferior constrictors. Its last divisions anastomose with some twigs of the superior thyroid and Ungual arteries. 2330. Meningeal Branch. It ascends between the internal ca- rotid, the pneumo-gastric nerve and the internal jugular vein, gives ramifications to these different parts, to the superior cervical gang- lion, the Eustachian tube, rectus capitis anticus major, rectus anticus minor and longus colli muscles, and at length enters the cranium by the foramen lacerum posterius, to ramify upon the dura mater. Some of its twigs penetrate separately into that cavity, and have the same destination; one in particular is observed which passes through the fibro-cartilage of the foramen lacerum medium •, another passes through the anterior condyloid foramen. 2 u