20 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. which correspond to the laminae of the upper surface. Another peculiar character which the body of these vertebrae possesses, is, that its upper surface is broader than the lower, whilst in the other vertebrae it is the latter which is the more extensive. The body is also lower than in the dorsal and lumbar vertebras. The spinous process is bifurcated, horizontal, and short. There is a hole for the passage of the vertebral artery at the base of the transverse processes, which are short, bifid at the summit, and present a chan- nel above, the edges of which give attachment to the inter-trans- versales muscles. On account of the hole which passes through their base, these processes seem as if they had two roots, one of which arises from the body itself. The inferior articular processes are of an oval form, somewhat concave, and are directed forwards and downwards ; the superior are also oval, but present opposite characters. The Lamince of the cervical vertebia; are longer and narrower than those of the others, and concur to render the verte- bral foramen proportionally larger, and of a triangular form, with the angles rounded. Their tipper circumference is formed by a sharp edge, and is smaller than the lower, which seems to embrace the vertebra situated beneath. The notches are anterior to the ar- ticular processes. 53. Characters of the Dorsal Vertebra; (Vertebra; DorsiJ. The dorsal vertebrae diminish in size from the last to the fourth or fifth, and then increase to the first, so that the fourth and fifth are always smaller than the rest. Their body has a greater diameter from before backwards than transversely, except in the two first, and two or three of the last, is thicker behind than before, and very convex at its middle and fore part: its upper and lower surfaces are flat, the former of which is narrower than the latter. On its sides it generally presents two demi-facets, covered with cartilage, the upper being the larger, to which the heads of the ribs are arti- culated. In the first nine dorsal vertebrae, the upper and lower surfaces of the body are heart-shaped; but in the rest they are rounded. The sjnnous jjrocesses are long, of the form of a trian- gular prism, tubercular at the summit, inclined downwards, and imbricated. The transverse processes, which are very long and thick, are directed a little backwards. Excepting in the two last, their summit presents a rough tubercle, surmounted by a concave and cartilaginous facet, to which is articulated the tuberosity of the ribs. This facet is placed sometimes higher, sometimes lower, ac- cording to the vertebrae ; but in the upper vertebr.ie, it is generally directed downwards, and in the lower upwards. The superior arti- cular processes are directed backwards, the J^z/b-ior forwards; they are situated vertically above one another. The notches are larger than in the cervical vertebrae, and situated anterior to the articular processes. The vertebral foramen is no longer triangular, but of an oval form from before backwards, and is smaller than in the neck. Lastly, the lamina; are broader and thicker.