OF TH£ MUSCLES IN GKNEUAL. membranous, isolated vesicle, filled with fat, the interior of wliich is diviiled by several incomplete partitions, while its surface is co- vered by blood-vessels.* 782. From the neighbouring trunks the muscles receive very distinct arteries, whose size and number are always proportional to the volume of the muscle: they penetrate its substance from all points of its surface, although their entrances are generally more towards- the middle than the extremities. Their principal branches creep at first between the largest fleshy fibres ; they then divide and subdivide into an almost infinite number of ramifica- tions which ultimately become capillary, to be introduced, always running along the cellular envelopes, and incessantly presenting new divisions and new anastomoses, between the subordinate fasci- cuU and the fibres themselves. With the exception of certain viscera, such as the lungs and kidneys, there are few organs which receive so much blood as the muscles. 783. The veins follow, in the muscles, the same course as the arteries, which they accompany in their whole course ; but they surpass them, as they do every where else, in number and magni- tude. Some of their principal branches even creep at the surface of the muscles, without corresponding to any artery. Bichat is of opinion, that in general they are but scantily supplied with valves. Like the arteries also, they communicate with the vessels of the tegumentary membranes adjoining the muscles. 784. The lymphatic vessels are not easily traced in the muscles ; but in the tongue, diaphragm, and especially the face, some trunks are perceived penetrating the fleshy fibres. 785. The nerves of the muscles of voluntary motion are nu- merous, and of variable size. Excepting the skin and organs of sense, no part is so abundantly supplied with them. They come almost all from the brain and spinal marrow ; a few, however, pro- ceed from ganglions, and accompany the arteries. The small muscles have never more than a single branch; those of large size are penetrated by several branches at once; but, in general, few- organs receive so many. In the extremities, the nerves enter the muscles, by following nearly the same direction, at a point more or less near their upper extremity, seldom beneath their middle. In the trunk, on the contrary, they often introduce them- selves into the muscles, by forming a more or less acute, or right angle with them. In general, they penetrate the fleshy tissue at the same time as the vessels, especially the arteries, with which they are closely connected by cellular tissue. t^l I ^ ^"tering the muscles, the nerves divide and subdivide, un- til they at length entirely disappear. It has not yet been ascer- ained, if each muscular fibril receives a nervous filament; but it appears that before terminating they become gradually softer, by ■ Berlard, Propositions sur (juelqucs points de Medecine, 4.to, Paris, 1813.