OF THE VULVA IN PAUTICULAll. of several inches. Such a conformation is generally in connexion with a robust and masculine constitution. The clitoris has a great resemblance to the penis. Its free ex- tremity forms a kind of rounded and imperforated glans, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane analogous to the prepuce, and laterally continuous with the nymphse. Above this glans, is a true corpus cavernosum, attached by its roots, like that of the male, to the rami of the ischia, and sustained, under the symphysis pubis, by a kind of transversely flattened suspen- sory ligament. This corpus cavernosum has the same structure as that of the penis ; only its internal spongy tissue is denser. In proportion to its volume, it receives a great quantity of vessels (2600) and nerves (1838). The latter have anastomoses with all those of the genital parts. 3024i. The Nymphce* (Labia minora). these are two erectile, elongated membraneous ridges, transversely flattened, thicker at their middle part than at the extremities, which arise to the right and left, from the lateral parts of the prepuce of the clitoris; they separate from each other, are situated upon the inner surface of the labia, and terminate towards the middle of the contour of the oriflce of the vagina by becoming gradually thinner. Their length varies much; they are sometimes very small, and in some cases are en- tirely wanting, of which Riolan and Morgagni adduce examples. In some tribes their size is such that they protrude beyond the la- bia, and require to be cut off. The nymphae are formed each by two laminae of the mucous membrane of the vulva folded upon itself, and contain in their sub- stance a thin layer of an erectile spongy tissue. Numerous ves- sels also ramify in their substance. 3025. Meatus Urinarius and Urethra. In the female the orifice of the urethra is named the meatus urinarius. The urethra in her is very difl'erent from what it is in the male, being only an inch in length, much wider, and capable of being dilated to a great ex- tent. It is very wide at its commencement, and descends oblique- ly forwards to terminate at the lower part of the vestibule, above the orifice of the vagina. In this course, it describes a shght curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards. Its lateral parts and its lower part are in a manner embraced by the upper wall of the vagina. Superiorly, it is in connexion with the inferior ligament of the bladder, the symphysis of the pubes, and the cor- pus cavernosum of the chtoris. The mucous membrane which lines it is reddish, and forms several very prominent longitudinal i folds. It presents, especially below, a great quantity of mucous 1 lacunae. This membrane is enveloped by a thin layer of spongy 1 tissue, and no body similar to the prostate is met with at its ex- I terior. " 1ivfA(pui of tlie GrcekF, because tlicy were supposed to direct the stream of the . urine, and to preside over its emission, as the Nymplis over fountains.