301 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. i7iner is lined by the pleura, and a thin layer of a nearly fibrous cellular tissue. 1096. The intercostales externi and interni have the same uses; they raise or depress the ribs, in the motion of inspiration or ex- spiration, according as the upper or lower rib is the point from which they act. OF THE LEVATORES COSTARUM, BREVIORES ET LONGIORES.* 1097. Each rib receives from the summit of the transverse pro- cess situated above that with which it is articulated, a small, flat, thin, triangular fleshy bundle. These small muscles, to the num- ber of twelve, form a series which extends along the posterior part of the trunk. They are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and attached by aponeuroses intermingled with the fleshy fibres, to the upper edge of the rib below, and occasionally to that of the next, by means of an appendage which passes over the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The upper are smaller and thinner than the lower. 1098. There are also observed, in various places of the inner surface of the thorax, small muscular planes, which vary much in respect to number, size, and situation. They descend obliquely backwards from one rib to that which is beneath, or to that which follows it. They have been designated by the name of Infra- costales. -f- 1099. These small muscles assist in raising the ribs, and are therefore subservient to inspiration. 1100. The external intercostal, and levatores costarum muscles are exposed, when the different muscles, by which they are co- vered, are removed. The internal intercostal muscles may be dissected from without by raising the external intercostal, or from within by opening the thorax and raising the pleura. OF THE TRIANGULARIS STERNI. 1101. The Triangularis Sterni {Sterno-costalis) is a thin, triangular, flat muscle, situated within the thorax, behind the car- tilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs. It arises from the edge of the ensiform cartilage and sternum, up to the articulation «f that bone with the fourth cartilage, by means of aponeurotic nbres which are prolonged a great way among the fleshy fibres. * rem thence it ascends outwards, to be attached by so many dis- tinct digitations to the cartilages of the ribs mentioned, as well to tornn^lf'i ^' ^"ys'' "nd Chaussier consider these as appendages of the external in- leiooscai muscles, nplu!'*'^^/"."^'^''^^ '"'^^ considered by Albinus, Beyer and Chaussier as ap- pendages of the internal intercostal muscles. '