101 OF THE ORBITS. 3i4. The Lower Wall or the Floor of the Orbit is nearly plain, and inchned outwards and downwards. It is formed at its fore part by the cheek bone; in the middle by the orbitar surface of the upper maxillary bone ; posteriorly and inwards, by one of the small surfaces of the anterior process of the upper edge of the palate bone (215) ; and it is intersected at the point where these three bones meet, by two sutures whose denticulations are not very distinct, and of which the posterior is of very small extent. At its posterior and external part, is seen the infra-orbitar groove, to which succeeds the canal of the same name. 345. The Outer Wall is plain, and is formed in two posterior thirds, by the sphenoid bone, and in the anterior third by the malar. A vertical suture, with large serratures, marks the place where these two bones unite, and at its fore part are observed the internal orifices of the malar holes. 346. The Inner Wall is of much smaller extent than the others. It is smooth and perfectly plain; three bones enter into its com- position ; the lachrymal before, the ethmoid in the middle, and the sphenoid behind. Two vertical sutures result from the juxtaposi- tion of these bones, and present themselves under the appearance of two slightly uneven and very narrow slits. 347. The Upper Wall in uniting with the inner and outer, forms two retiring angles. The first of these angles contains, anteriorly, the suture which results from the articulation of the frontal and lachrymal bones, and a little behind this, the ethmoidal suture of the cranium, (290), in which are seen the internal orbitar foramina, to the number of two or three. The second presents pos- teriorly the sphenoidal fissure; in the middle, a part of the sphenoidal suture of the cranium (282), and anteriorly the articulation of the frontal to the malar bone. 348. The Lower Wall also forms two retiring angles where it joins the inner and outer walls. The first presents the suture which results from the articulation of the upper maxillary and pa- late bones to the lachrymal and ethmoid. The second is perforat- ed posteriorly by the Spheno-maccillary or Inferior Orbitar Fis- sure. This fissure is formed at its upper part by the sphenoid bone, below by the upper maxillary bone, anteriorly by the malar bone, and posteriorly by the palate bone. It is less wide in the middle than at its extremities, is closed up by fat in the recent state, and gives passage merely to a few vascular and nervous rami- fications. 349. The Circumference of the orbit, or its base, is irregularly quadrilateral, wider externally than internally, directed obliquely downwards and outwards, and presents, at its upper part, the or- bitar arch and superciliary hole, and at its lower, the articulation of the malar tuberosity with the cheek bone. It presents exter- nally a short, denticulated suture formed by the check bone and the external orbitar process of the frontal bone ; and internally the Lachrymal Groove, formed by the os unguis and the nasal process