PASSIVE OKGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 44 Superior), anteriorly to which is a square rough surface, and beneath it a horizontal channel, which forms part of the tmyerior maatKH of the iiaml fosaoi. 'J his channel occupies about the posterior half of the whole length of the ethmoid bone, and presents anteriorly an aperture Avhich leads into the posterior cells of the bone, the number of which varies from three or four to ten; these cells all communi- cate with each other, and are sometimes closed behind by a bony plate, and sometimes end, in this direction, either in the turbinated Ijones of the sphenoid, or in the sinuses of the same name ; they are lined by a prolongation of the pituitary membrane. Inferiorly, these parts are bounded by another bony plate, rough at its sur- face, which is larger and more curved than the upper, thin and continuous above with the rest of the bone, free and thick beneath, especially at the fore part, convex internally, concave externally, and terminated behind by free inequahties. This plate is the middle turbitiated hone {concha medio.) Its lower edge is mark- ed by a vascular groove, and contributes, by its outer surface, to form a portion of the middle meatus, under the appearance of a longitudinal channel, anteriorly to which is a lacerated aperture, which leads to the anterior ethmoid cells. These cells are much larger and more numerous than the posterior, with which they have no communication whatever. One of them, named infundibidum, situated behind the others, represents a sort of flexuous canal, direct- ed forwards and upwards, wide below, where it corresponds to the fiperture mentioned, and opening above into one of the half-cells, which are completed by those of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, and which communicate with the frontal sinuses. The ethmoid cells, anterior as well as posterior, are therefore completed above by the frontal bone, anteriorly by the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones, behind by the palate bone. 135. The external olfactory canals, in general shorter than the internal, occupy the greater part of the surface which we have just described, especially the superior turbinated bone, and the square surface which is anterior to it. Some of them are prolonged upon the middle turbinated bone, but do not penetrate into the meatuses, nor the ethmoid cells. The numerous apertures of these canals, together with several vascular grooves, render the inner surface of the turbinated bones very rough ; but their outer surface, and the interior of the cells, are smooth and pohshed. 136. Lastly, the nasal aspect of the ethmoid bone presents, at its lowest part, several thin, fragile, and frequently unciform lami- nae, curved in various directions, Avhich join in with the opening of .the maxillary sinus, and with some portions of cells formed above it, also with the inferior turbinated bone of the nose. These laminae generally break when the bones are disarticulated. I87. Sphenoidal or Posterior aspect. This presents, in the middle, the posterior edge of the perpendicular plate (133), and, on each side, externally of the posterior extremity of the ethmoid grooves, a convex irregular surftice, corresponding to the posterior