801 INTlillNAL SURFACE 01? THE'BLADDER. named the Anterior Ligament of the Bladder. It is immediately applied upon the prostate gland. 2950. Posterior Region. Smooth and entirely invested by the peritoneum, it is limited inferiorly by the folds which that mem- brane forms as it passes over the rectum in the male, and the ute- rus in the female, and which are improperly called the Posterior LigameJits of the Bladder. It is contiguous, in the male, to the rectum, and in the female, to the uterus. Pretty frequently, there^ glide between it and these two organs, one or more convolutions of the small intestine. 29-51. Lateral Regions. They are narrower above, where they are in relation with the peritoneum, than below, where they are coasted by the umbilical arteries and the vasa deferentia, and where they are immersed in the adipose cellular tissue of the pelvis. 2952. The Neck of the Bladder, viewed externally, represents, in the male, a kind of truncated cone, longer laterally and inferior- ly than above. It is nearly horizontal in the adult, and is directed obliquely forwards and downwards in the child. It is embraced anteriorly by the prostate gland, and rests posteriorly upon the rectum. In the female it is shorter and rests on the vagina. INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE BLADDER. 2953. The internal surface of the bladder is formed by a mucous merabi'ane furnished with a great number of villosities, much less apparent than those of the stomach or intestines. It presents, in the greater part of its extent, and in its empty state, numerous ir- regular rugae which chsappear when the bladder is full. In certain subjects only, there are observed elongated persistent prominences, crossing each other in different directions, and separated by cellu- les varying in breadth and depth. This disposition is owing to a greater development of the muscular fasciculi of the bladder ; and when it exists, the bladder which presents it, is commonly called a Columnar Bladder (Vessie a colonnes). 2954. The name of Trigonal Space of the Bladder (La trigone de la vessie, Lieutaud,) is given to a smooth triangular surface on the inside of the bladder, in the middle of its fundus, and where the mucous membrane is destitute of ruga3. The two posterior angles of this triangle correspond to the mouth of the ureters, and the anterior to the origin of the urethra. Its sides are each about an inch long. Its base is directed backwards, and its summit for- wards. The walls of the bladder are a little thicker here than else- where. 2955. The orifice of the urethra, which is also named the Neck of the Bladder, has the form of a crescent, the circumference of which is pretty thick. It embraces a small tubercle (f7?)M/a Vesi- cm), which is formed by the projection of the mucous membrane. 3 F