602 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. there is observed the entrance of the Eustachian tubes (2013), I close upon the apertures of the nasal fosste. 2131. Above, the pharynx is attached in a solid manner to the basilar process by the cephalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis, to which are attached some of the fibres of the superior constrictors of the pharynx (1033). Stronger and denser at the middle than on the sides, it there constitutes of itself the fixed part of the organ. It is gradually confounded below with the mucous membrane. 2132. Inferiorly, the termination of the pharynx in the oeso- phagus is indicated by a sudden contraction at the exterior, and rendered very remarkable by a change in the direction of the mus- cular fibres. ORGANIZATION OF THE PHARYNX. 2133. Muscular Layer. The muscles of which it is composed are the six constrictors, the two stylo-pharyngei (1029 et seq.), and the two palato-pharyngei (1048), all which have been already des- cribed. We only observe that their fibres, which differ in their ob- liquity, form planes which cross each other in different direc- tions. 2134. Mucous Membrane. It is continuous above with the pituitary membrane, in the middle with the membrane of the mouth, below with those of the larynx and oesophagus, and on the sides with those of the Eustachian tubes. After covering the ce- phalo-pharyngeal aponeurosis and the posterior wall of the pha- rynx, to the muscles of which it is attached by a rather loose cel- lular tissue, it is prolonged over the velum palati, is reflected up- on its pillars, sinks into the two spaces which separate laterally the thyroid and cricoid cartilages (1492), lines the posterior part of the latter, passes over the sides of the larynx, and is appUed upon the arytenoidei, crico-arytenoidei postici and thyro-arytenoi- dei muscles (1482). This membrane has a very decided red tint. It is smooth, des- titute of villosities, and presents only a few inequalities arising from the presence of the mucous follicles. It is evidently thicker above than below. It is covered with a very thin epithelium, and is folded in the part which corresponds to the larynx. A multitude of capillary vessels are scattered over it. Its follicles are more numerous above than below. They are of an oval form and pretty large, and their orifices are very distinct. 2135. The pharynx receives on each side two principal arteries, the superior and the inferior pharyngeal, the latter from the ex- ternal carotid, the former from the internal maxillary. The in- ferior palatine and superior and inferior thyroid arteries also send some ramifications to it. Its veins go to the internal jugular, thy- roid, and labial veins. Its lymphatics direct themselves towards the ganglia, placed near the bifurcation of the internal jugular