549 OF THE BALL OF THE EYE. moistened. When the eyelids are closed, it corresponds to itself in all points; when they are open, it is in part exposed to the con- tact of the air. This membrane contains a considerable number of capillary blood-vessels, especially on the eyelids. Its arteries are derived from the ophthalmic artery. The only nervous filaments which it appears to receive are very minute, and supplied by the lachrymal nerve (1649), and external nasal (1654). I have in vain searched for those which are said to be sent to it by the sLxth and fourth nerves. OF THE BALL OF THE EVE IN GENERAL. 1951. Situated at the inner and somewhat anterior part of the orbit, more or less prominent in different individuals, but always of about the same volume, the ball of the eye has the form of a spheroid, the greatest diameter of which extends from before backwards. It is shghtly depressed above, below and on the sides, but at its middle . and anterior part presents a greater convexity than elsewhere, • which is more distinct in young subjects than in old persons. The antero-posterior diameter of the eye has an extent of from I ten to eleven lines in the adult. Its other diameters are about a 1 line less. In general also it presents smaller dimensions in the fe- 1 male than in the male. The direction of the eye is not the same as that of the orbit. Its ; axis is parallel to that of the other eye, while the axis of the orbit '. inclines inwards (350). There results from this arrangement that : the optic nerve, which is directed inwards, is inserted into the in- : ner side of the eye, and not into its middle part. Viewed in profile, the eye appears composed of two distinct por- tions of a sphere, of different diameters, united to each other. The anterior segment, which forms about the fifth of the ball, has the smallest diameter. Anteriorly, the eye is covered in a great part by the tunica con- T junctiva; posteriorly, and in its whole contour, it corresponds to ! the recti and obliqui muscles which terminate upon it, to a great ' number of nerves and vessels, and to the soft and half fluid fat which fills up all the vacuities of the orbit. Superiorly and exter- nally, the lachrymal gland rests upon it; inferiorly and internally, the caruncula lachrymalis is placed in its neighbourhood. The ball of the eye is moved by six muscles which we have al- ready described (961, et seq.). DF THE PARTS WHICH ENTER INTO THE COMPOSITION OF T^E BALL OF THE EYE. 1952. The parts which enter into the composition of the ball of 2 eye are membranes, as the sclerotica, cornea, choroidcs, retina,