398 ORGANS OP THE VOICE. of Soemmering) isolated, moveable, and of a very irregular and va- riable form. 1475. The different cartilages of the larynx are precisely simi- lar in their structure ; they are solid and thick, of a greyish co- lour, and of a perfectly homogeneous tissue. They are invested by a kind of fibrous perichondrium. They have a very great ten- dency to become ossified, and when this is the case, they present small cellules in their interior like the bones of the skull. The arytenoid cartilages ossify more rarely than the others, and are on- ly observed in that state in very advanced age. When ossification of the cartilages of the larynx takes place, it commences in the cricoid cartilage, by two germs, one on each side; in the thyroid cartilage, on each of its posterior edges, and frequently also on its superior processes ; in the arytenoid carti-. lages on the base. OF THE EPIGLOTTIS.* 1470. The Epiglottis is a fibro-cartilage, situated at the upper part of the larynx, behind the base of the tongue. Its form is oval, its colour a pale yellow, its tissue very elastic, its thickness greater below than above, and at the middle than at the sides ; its large extremity is free, broad, and curved a little upwards on the side next the tongue; the small extremity is contracted, directed downwards, and connected with the notch in the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage by a dense bundle of ligamentous fibres, embraced anteriorly by the gland of the epiglottis ; sometimes it is divided into three distinct portions. The Ungual surface of the epiglottis, which is inclined upwards, concave from above downwards, and convex transversely, is covered above by the mucous membrane of the- mouth ; inferiorly, it is connected with the hyoid bone and the base of the tongue ; a longitudinal line seems to divide it into two halves. Its laryngeal surface, which is directed downwards, is concave and convex in the opposite direction of the preceding, and covered by the mucous membrane of the larynx. These two surfaces, the latter especially, are covered with a gi-eat numbey of depressions like pin holes, which contain mucous follicles ; some of these depressions are true holes, which vary in size, but have very regular and rounded margins, and pass through the epiglottis directly, and never obHquely. They are observed towards the lower part. Several of these apertures also transmit nervous fila- ments. . The direction of the epiglottis is liable to vary m the different circumstances of life. It is vertical in the most common state, but becomes horizontal when the food passes from the mouth into the oesophagus. * •£«•<, upon; Vxurnu the glotti?.