PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 1. Anatomy* is the science of organization, that is, the science whose object is the examination of the organs or instruments of life. All organized bodies are the subjects of it. 2. As living beings are divided into two great sections. Vege- tables and Animals, so there are two kinds of anatomy, viz. Vege- table Anatomy and Animal Anatomy. 3. The peculiar object of the latter kind of anatomy is the know- ledge of the organization of animals, considered in a material point of view, or the apparent qualities of the organs which enter into the composition of their bodies. By it we learn the number, the shape, size, structure, intimate texture, physical properties, situa- tion and connexions of each of them ; it assists in discovering and explaining the laws that regulate the functions which they are dis- tined to perform. The knowledge of this science is obtained by inquiries and experiments made upon dead bodies, by means of dissection, and numerous other processes, such as desiccation, cor- rosion, injection, maceration, the construction of skeletons, &c. 4. Animal anatomy is divided into Human Anatomy and Com- parative Anatomy, according as it treats of the organization of the human body, or of that of other animals. The anatomy of man is the object of the present work. The numerous organs of which the human body consists, we shall consider principally with refer- ence to their shape and mutual relations ; this is what constitutes Descriptive Anatomy, properly so called, which may be subdivided into the Particular Anatomy of Organs and the Anatomy of Re- gions, or Surgical Anatomy ; while that branch of the science which treats of the structure and properties of the different tissues which are common to several organs, takes the name of General Anatomy. To the latter also belongs the examination of the ge- neral characters of all the organs and humours. • 'Antrl^va;, dissr.co. Somc authors Jiavc proposed to substitute for tlic word Anatomy, those of Morphohir,,, Phyno^raphy, Organoffraphy, and Orgiinofogy, vfh\ch, Jiowcver, have by no means been generally adopted.