MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. 287 cd by the constrictor medius above; by tlie palato-pharyngosus and stylo-pharyng£eus muscles, and the mucous membrane of the pha- rynx, in the middle ; and by the thyroid and cricoid cartilages bo- low. The upper edge, which is very oblique, forms an extremely acute angle with that of the opposite side, and ascends more or less high, sometimes to near the occipital bone. The lower edge, which is shorter, is nearly transverse ; it is connected with the commence- ment of the oesophagus, and allows the inferior laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve to pass under it anteriorly. OF THE CONSTRICTOR PHABYNGIS MEDIUS. 1031. This muscle, which is also membraneous, and nearly tri- angular, arises from the retiring angle formed by the union of the large and small horns of the hyoid bone, and from the whole extent of these two bony appendages, as well as from the stylo-hyoid liga- ment. The inferior fibres, which are shorter, are directed down- wards and backwards; the middle fibres are transverse ; and the superior, which are longer, ascend obliquely. They are all inter- . laced with those of the opposite side, forming at the posterior part of the pharynx a raphe, whose inferior extremity, which is very ; much attenuated, is concealed by the preceding muscle, while the ; upper, which is also very acute, is attached to the basilar process by a kind of aponeurosis. Some of the fibres of this muscle are frequently continuous anteriorly with those of the genio-glossus. 1032. The constrictor medius is covered, in its outer surface, by the hyo-glossus and lingual artery externally, and by the con- strictor inferior behind and below. In the rest of its extent, it is : united by cellular tissue to the muscles of the anterior part of the cervical vertebrae, and to the anterior vertebral ligament. The in- ner surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and constrictor superior. OF THE CONSTRICTOIl FHARYNGIS SUPERIOR. 1033. Membraneous and broad like the others, but still thinner, and of an irregularly quadrilateral form, it arises externally from a considerable number of different parts : 1°. from the loy^er half of the edge of the internal wing of the pterygoid process ; 2°. from an aponeurosis which is common to it with the buccinator, and which extends from the pterygoid process to the posterior part of the in- ferior alveolar arch; 3°. from the extremity of the myloid line (249;) 4°. from the sides of the base of the tongue, between the stylo-glos- sus and hyo-glossus muscles. It sometimes even arises a little from the tuberosity of the palate bone, and levator palati muscle, or the stylo-pharyngeus, and from the styloid process. The fleshy fibres ot the first origin descend a little backwards and presently ascend