PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 148 angle. Of these two portions, the outer is larger and deeper than the inner, in conformity to the disposition of the articular part of the corresponding condyle. Beneath them is seen a small trian- gular rough surface, into which is inserted the ligament of the patella. 502. The Base of the Patella, which is thick, directed upwards, and cut obliquely downwards and forwards, gives attachment to the tendon of the rectus femoris. Its two Lateral Edges, which are thin, convex, and prominent, receive aponeuroses from the tri- ceps extensor. Its Summit, which is sharp and directed down- wards, gives insertion to the ligamentum patellte. 503. Structure. The patella is almost entirely formed of very dense cellular tissue, traversed by longitudinal bony fibi-es, and co- vered with a very thin layer of compact tissue. It appears to bor- row this peculiar structure from the fibrous basis in which it is de- veloped. It in fact originates in the midst of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, in the same way as the sesamoid bones are developed. 504. Development and Articulations. The patella originates by a single centre of ossification; it remains long cartilaginous, and only becomes entirely osseous at a pretty advanced age. It is ar- ticulated with the condyles of the femur, and is connected with the tibia by the ligamentum patellae. OF THE TIUIA.* 505. Form. The Tibia is the largest and longest of the two bones of the leg, of which it occupies the inner and fore part. Next to the femur, it is the largest bone in the body. It is divided into the following parts: 506. Body. This part is prismatic and triangular; its thick- ness diminishes from the upper part to the lower in a general man- ner, but the place where it is smallest, is below the middle third. Independently of its being twisted upon itself, like all the long bones, it presents a double curvature, which is such that internally its two upper thirds are slightly convex, while the lower is a little concave. Its Inner Surface, which is directed a little obliquely forwards, slightly convex, and broader above than below, is covered at the upper part by the tendinous expansions of the sartorius, gra- cilis and semitendinosus muscles, while in the rest of its extent it lies immediately under the skin. Its Outer Surface, which is al- so broader above than below, is concave in its two upper thirds, ■where the tibialis anticus is inserted, and convex in the remaining third, which is covered by the tendons of that muscle, of the exten- sor communis digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis and peroneus * Tibia, a ])i))e or (lute. It is said timt the first instrmncnts of lliis sort were uiade by slu'i)licrds of the leg bones of animals.