ACTIVE OltCANS OF LOCOMOTION. above downwards, upon the infra-spinatus, teres minor, and triceps extensor inuscles, the tendon of the supra-spinatus, the acromio- coracoid ligament, the sub-scapularis, pectoraUs minor, biceps, and coraco-brachiaUs muscles, the coracoid process, the capsule of the joint, the upper third of the outer surface of the humerus, the cir- cumflex nerve and vessels, and the tendon of the pectoralis major. Between the upper part of the deltoid muscle and the subjacent organs, the cellular tissue forms a sort of loose and very flexible- piembrane. The posterior edge of the muscle is very thin above, and very thick below. The anterior is separated above from the pectoralis major by a cellular interval occupied by the cephah( vein, (IO76) ; and below is parallel to the outer edge of the bi- ceps. 1113. When the shoulder is fixed, the deltoid muscle raises the arm directly, or carries it at the same time forwards or backwards, according to the direction of the bundles which act. When the arm is raised, its posterior fibres can lower it. If the arm is fixed, it depresses the shoulder. OF THE SUPllA-SPINATUS. 1114. The (iupra-spinatus is situated at the posterior and up- per part of the shoulder in the fossa supra-spinata. It is long, thick, triangular, pyramidal, broader within than without; and is kept in position by a very thin aponeurosis, which arising on the one hand from the whole length of the upper lip of the spine of the scapula, is attached on the other, behind the upper edge of that bone, and to the upper part of its inner edge. The fleshy fibres arise from the posterior part of this aponeurosis, and from the two inner thirds of the fossa supra-spinata by short tendinous fibres. They proceed outwards, converge towards each other, and are inserted obliquely round a broad aponeurosis, which, after being long concealed among them, contracts, becomes thicker, and entirely emerges from them, passing under the coraco-acromial ligament. It then forms a strong tendon, more apparent internally than externally, almost always united to that of the infra-spinatus. Separated by the long portion of the biceps from that of the subscapuJaris, this tendon curves a little over the shoulder joint, becomes identified with its fibrou.' capsule, and is attached to the upper surface of the large tuberosit\ of the humerus. 1115. The 'posterior surface of this muscle is covered by tin trapezius and deltoides, and by the coraco-acromial ligament. Tht anterior is applied upon the fossa supra-spinata ; from which it i separated, in its outer third, by niucli cellular tissue, and by tlu supra-scapular vessels and nerve. It also corresponds to the cap sule of the shoulder joint, the omo-hyoidcus muscle, and the cora coid ligament (652).