PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 61, process also arises from a separate germ, which forms the innt "wall of the alveoli, excepting those of the incisors. The malai i and orbitar processes are also each produced by a separate point. J In many cases also an isolated small bone forms the upper part of the nasal canal. * OF THE PALATE BONE. 210. Form. The Palate Bones (Ossa Palati), which are of a very irregular figure, and were long confounded by anatomists with the upper maxillary bone, are situated behind the latter, and below the middle region of the base of the cranium. Each of them seems formed by the union of two plates joined at a right angle, so that one of them is horizontal and inferior, the other vertical and supe- rior : each of these portions is commonly described separately in order to facilitate the examination of this bone, which is very com- plicated. 211. Horizontal ov Palatine Portion. It is quadrilateral, and seems to be the continuation of the palatine process of the upper maxillary bone. Its Upper Surface is smooth, and forms part of the floor of the nasal fossoc; it is concave from within outwards, and straight in the other direction. The Lower Surface, which it rough and uneven, although less so than the corresponding sur- face of the maxillary bone, presents posteriorly a transverse ridgt for the insertion of the circumflexus palati, and forms part of the arch of the palate : there is also observed upon it, in the same di- rection, and a little outwards, an oval hole, sometimes double, which is the inferior orifice of the posterior palatine canal. Ante- riorly, this portion of the bone rests upon the palatine process of the upper maxillary bone, by means of an oblique edge (201) ; poste- riorly, it is terminated by a second edge, named the Guttural. which is free, sharp, and notched, and gives attachment to the velum palati; this edge, by its union with the inner one, forms j projecting angle, which, on being united with that of the opposit( side, constitutes the Posterior Nasal Spine. Internally, it present an uneven edge, much thicker than the others, articulated to th( corresponding bone, and surmounted by a thin crest, which contri butes to the formation of a groove into which the vomer is receiv cd: externally, it is confounded with the vertical portion. Thi centre of the horizontal portion of the palate bone is much thinne than its edges. 212. Vertical ox Ascending Portion. This portion is of an ol long form, slightly inclined inwards, broader and thinner than th horizontal, and rests upon the upper maxillary bone. Its Inne Surface, which enters into the composition of the nasal fossfe, pre sents below a broad and superficial depression, belonging to thei * BECtAflD, Nouvcau Journal dc Mcdccinc, April, 1819, p. 332.