ORGANS OF SENSATION. 58^ as well as all the other parts of the nasal cavities, forms in passing^ over it a thick and very distinct fold. This membrane has receiv- ed the names of Pituitary, Olfactory, or Schneiderian Membrane. OF THE COUIISE OP THE PITUITARY MEMBllANE. 2058. This, which belongs to the class of mucous membranes, Mnes in their whole extent the nasal fossae and internal part of the nose, from the apertures of the nostrils to the pharynx, where it is continuous with the mucous membrane of the mouth, the velum palati and Eustachian tube, while anteriorly it seems continued from the skin. It is prolonged over all the eminences of the olfactory cavities, and penetrates into all their anfractuosi- ties, and has an extremely complicated course. After covering the floor of the nasal fossae, it ascends in the in- ferior meatus and covers it; there it meets the orifice of the na- sal canal (361), dives into it, and is thus continuous with the tuni- ca conjunctiva of the eye through the puncta lachrymalia. In this place it forms a small circular and very distinct replication, which much contracts the entrance of the duct, but whose disposition is very variable. Sometimes this replication contracts the orifice of the duct to such a degree, that a stylet cannot be introduced into it without difficulty. From the inferior meatus, the pituitary membrane is reflected over the inferior turbinated bone, to which it adheres only in a rather loose manner. Below this turbinated bone, it forms, espe- cially behind, a replication which descends lower than it, and which consequently enlarges it. This repUcation loses itself in- sensibly behind in the rest of the membrane. Above the inferior turbinated bone, the membrane penetrates into the middle meatus, in the fore and upper part of which it finds an aperture (infundibuluvi), more or less widened at the mouth, which allows it first to enter into the anterior ethmoid cells, and afterwards into the frontal sinuses, without forming any kind of fold. A little more posteriorly is another aperture, frequently very narrow, leading into the maxillary sinus, which the membrane completely invests, forming around its bony orifice a very distinct fold, which contains between its two lamina; a glandular organ, respecting the existence of which we shall after- wards speak. There is also in a head which retains its soft parts, on account of the presence of this fold, a narrow membraneous ca- nal inclined from before backwards, which leads into the sinus. Its'entrance is placed before the aperture which the bones present (359), and is commonly concealed by a small bony lamina equally invested by the olfactory membrane. Issuing from the middle meatus, the pituitary membrane extends over the convex surface of the ethmoidal turbinated bone, and forms on its free edge a rather loose fold, which terminates postcri-