302 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. their edges as to their inner surface. These (ligitations are so much the broader and less ascending, the lower they are observ^- ed. The variations which this muscle presents are extremely nu- merous. 1102. Its anterior surface is covered by the cartilages of the four last true ribs, the inner intercostal muscles, and the internal mammary vessels. The posterior surface rests upon the pleura, and in a small part of its extent upon the diaphragm. Its inferior edge or base is contiguous to the transversalis abdominis. 1103. It draws the cartilages of the ribs, to which it is attached, backwards, inwards, and downwards, and is consequently subser- vient to exspiration. 1104. To dissect this muscle, the thorax is to be opened by cut- ting the ribs at the union of their anterior third with their two pos- terior thirds. The triangularis sterni is found behind the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs and is exposed by removing the parts covering the posterior surface (1102.) MUSCLES OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. OF THE ENVELOPING APONEUROSIS OF THE SUPEKIOR EX- TREMITY. 1105. A fibrous sheath, varying in strength and closeness in the different parts of its extent, surrounds aU the muscles of the upper extremity from the shoulder to the hand. The place where it ori- ginates cannot be precisely determined. It is evidently confound- ed with the cellular tissue in the arm-pit, before and behind which it proceeds as far as the tendons of the pectoralis major (1075) and latissimus dorsi (805). The deltoid muscle does not appear to be covered by it; it seems only to be detached from its humeral ten- don ; but beyond that muscle it is continuous with an aponeurosis which ascends to the spine of the scapula, covering the infra-spina- tus. From these different points of origin, to the elbow joint, this sheath bears the name of brachial aponeurosis. It descends along the arm, which it closely envelopes, is separated from its muscles by nerves, vessels, and much cellular tissue, adheres nevertheless to the different fibrous laminae which separate the br^chiaUs inter- nus from those which surround it, sends off near the elbow some prolongations into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, is inserted by two bundles into the external and internal condyles, and conti- nued before and behind over the fore-arm. It is very delicate, transparent, and cellular in several places; it also however presents oblique, longitudinal, and transverse fibres, which cross each other in various directions. Of all the aponeuroses of the limbs, it is the least capable of resistance. Its outer surface is covered by the skin, by cellular tissue, and by the superficial veins, nerves, and lymphatics of the arm; it appears to form very thm sheaths for