OF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. 737 2687. This trunk then takes the name of External Jugular Vein, {venajugularis externa). Jt is less voluminous than the in- ternal, descends nearly vertically along the lateral and anterior part of the neck, placed at the first between the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and platysma rayoides, the latter of which alone separates it from the integuments, crossing the direction of the first, and pretty ac- curately corresponding with that of the fibres of the second. It then passes under the omo-hyoideus muscle, and is separated from the platysma myoides by a pretty thick layer of fat, so that in de- scending it becomes less and less superficial. Lastly, near the outer edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, it opens into the upper part of the subclavian vein, a little externally of the internal luffiilar vein. Sometimes it bifurcates at its termination; but always in its course along the neck it receives some vems, which are the following. 2688. Cervical Cutatieous and Trachelo-scapiilar Veins. They are few in number above, and come from the muscles and in- teguments of the posterior region of the neck. But inferiorly and externally, the external jugular vein is augmented by several pretty large branches which arise from the muscles of the shoulder, fol- low the large divisions of the superior and posterior scapular arter- ies, and traverse the triangular space which exists between the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscles and the clavicle. At the same point, that is to say, near the termination of the exter- nal jugular vein, and internally, there are seen opening other veins which foUow the course of the clavicle, and whose roots, anastomos- ing with each other and with those of the opposite side, form be- tween the skin and the sterno-hyoidei muscles above the superior extremity of the sternum, a venous plexus remarkable for the ir- regularity and number of its twigs. This plexus is farther aug- mented by four or five pretty large veins, which commence, anas- tomosing with the facial veins, in the muscles of the superior hyoid region, descend vertically to the anterior and middle part of the neck, upon the sterno-hyoidei muscles, communicate frequently together, and receive branches which come from the lateral and superficial regions of the neck. I-OF THE VEINS WHICH GIVE RISE TO THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. ( Venajugularis interna.) 2689- Superior Cerebral Veins. They are disseminated over the convex surface of the two hemispheres of the brain, from the substance of which they appear to issue by a multitude of very minute radicles placed towards the internal temporal fossae. They have a very flexuous course in the anfractuosities, and direct them- selves towards the great fissure of the hemisphere, uniting intO;