ACTIVE ORGANS OP LOCOMOTIOiN. SIS dons below. It arises from the inner condyle, by means of the common tendon; from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and from the coronoid process of the ulna, by pretty long , aponeuroses ; from two aponeurotic partitions which exist between i it and the flexor carpi ulnaris internally, and the pronator teres, | palmaris longus, and flexor carpi radialis, anteriorly. From these different points there proceeds a rather thin fleshy bundle, which descends a little obliquely outwards, and receives another broad thin, and flat muscular plane, which comes from the anterior edge of the radius, where it is attached by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, between the supinator brevis and flexor longus pollicis. The muscle then increases in breadth and thickness, and is frequently still more augmented by another portion, which arises separately from the inner condyle; it descends vertically, and soon divides into four portions, which proceed, one to each of the last four fin gers. Two are anterior, united to each other by their edges, and belong to the middle and ring fingers; two posterior, one for the fore finger, the other for the little finger ; the latter is the smallest, while that of the middle finger is the broadest and thickest. They are all terminated by tendons proportioned to their size, which are connected together, and with those of the flexor perforans by loose cellular tissue. 1163. Each of these tendons commences very high upon th fleshy portion to which it corresponds. That of the middle fingei extends along its outer and posterior side, and receives the fibres which arise from a part of the common tendon, and from the ante- rior edge of the radius ; it is accompanied by them until clos to the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. That of the rin' finger, which is at first concealed in the substance of its fleshy portion, afterwards appears at its fore part, but pretty low, and receives the fibres from a part of the common tendon and the aponeurotic septum, which separates the flexor perforatus from thi . flexor carpi ulnaris. The tendon of the little finger also commence; i very high on the anterior surface of its fleshy portion, which come; | from a tendinous intersection placed in the substance of the muscle like that of the fore-finger; but the latter descends much farthei . on the tendon. I 1164. These four tendons pass into the groove which the anterioi surface of the carpus presents, and are there kept down by the an ) nular ligament, beneath which they separate from each other to de ♦ scend into the palm, behind the palmar aponeurosis, and before th( tendons of the flexor perforans and the lumbricales. They thei enlarge a little, are enveloped by a loose cellular sheath, and en gaged toward the heads of the metacarpal bones, between partition formed by the palmar aponeurosis, and are lodged in a groove whicl the anterior surface of the phalanges presents, where they arc re tained by a peculiar fibrous sheath. ' Before arriving at these sheaths, the tendons exhibit the aj: pcarance of a middle longitudinal division, and present posteriori