156 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOJVIOTION. surface, which is articulated with the os naviculare ; but in t*ie mid- dle, it presents a rounded, smooth, and plain surface, which unites with the external cuneiform bone, and which is limited anteriorly by impressions of ligaments. OF THE CUNEIFOllM BONES. 522. The Cuneiform Bones (ossa cuneiformia) occupy the ante- rior and inner part of the tarsus, between the os naviculare and the three first metatarsal bones. They are wedge-shaped, and of unequal size. They are sometimes designated by their numerical name, counting from within outwards; sometimes they are distin- guished, according to their size, into large, middle, and smalland sometimes according to their position into internal, middle, and external. We shall follow the latter division. OF THE INTERNAL CUNEIFORM BONE. 523. The Internal Cuneiform Bone {as cuneiforme internum), is larger than the rest. Its vertical diameter is greater than its transverse; it is of the form of a wedge, with the base directed downwards. Its anterior surface, which is slightly convex and covered with cartilage, has the form of a crescent, with the convex edge turned inwards; it is articulated with the first metatarsal bone. The posterior surface is inclined a little outwards; it is triangular, smooth, and concave, and is connected with the inter- nal articular surface of the anterior aspect of the navicular bone. The inner surface is very large, nearly plain, and rough, and lies immediately under the skin. The outer, which is also nearly flat, presents, at its upper part, two articular surfaces, the anterior and smaller of which is articulated with the second metatarsal bone, while the posterior, which is larger, is connected with the middle cuneiform bone. The lower part of this surface is uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments. The Base of the internal cunei- form bone is convex, rough, and directed toward the sole of the foot; it gives attachment to the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and to a portion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. It descends be- neath the level of the other two cuneiform bones. Its Summit, which is directed upwards, is represented by a rather thin edge, which forms externally a small indistinct angle, arising from the union of the two portions of the outer surface. OF THE MIDDLE CUNEIFORM BONE. 524. The Middle Cuiieiform Bone (ns cuneiforme medium), is the smallest of the three cuneiform bones. It is, as it were, wedg-