OF THE CEREBELLUM. Ill forms part of the floor of the third ventricle, and is perforated by ~ several apertures for vessels. It was called by Vicq d'Azyr, Sub- ' stantia perforata media. On the sides of these crura, are seen the middle lobes of the 1 brain, separated from the posterior by a groove directed obliquely 1 backwards, much less deep than the fissura Sylvii, and correspond- i ing to the upper edge of the petrous process of the temporal bone.. ] Both present anfractuosities and convolutions, which are less sinu- < ous than those of the upper surface of the hemispheres ; the depth < of the former does not equal half of that of the upper anfractuo- : sities. Between the posterior and middle lobes of one side and those of the other, is placed the cerebral protuberance, behind which oc-; curs the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, uniting the two cerebral hemispheres. Between this extremity and the upper surface of the protuberance, is a broad transverse slit, which leads into the third ventricle, the arachnoid membrane, and pia mater, and which contains the arachnoid canal and the pineal gland. To the right and left, it is continuous with another semicircular sUt, placed between the corpora fimbriata and the thalami of the optic nerves, at the bottom of a fissure which we have described, and which allows the pia mater to penetrate into the lateral ventricles. These three shts, thus united, establish a manifest communication between the exterior of the brain and its internal cavities, and Bi- chat gives them the general name of the Great Cerebral Fissure. Lastly, there is observed, at the backmost part, and in the me- dian line of the inferior surface of the brain, the termination of the longitudinal fissure, which lodges the end of the falx cerebri. OF THE CEREBELLUM, CONSIDERED WITH REFERENCE TO ITS EXTERIOR. 1507- The Cerebellum is less than a third of the size of the brain. Its weight, which varies much according to the different ages, is commonly, in the adult man, the eighth or ninth part of that of the brain, and the sixteenth or eighteenth in the new-born in- fant. Its form, which is symmetrical and regular, corresponds to that of the inferior occipital fossae, in which it is lodged. Its breadth is much greater than its height, and it may be compared to two depressed spheroids, placed beside each other on a horizon- tal plane, and confounded by a portion of their surface. It is of a reddish gray colour externally, and soft and proportionally hghter than the brain. Its surface presents an assemblage of gray lamina., {Fnlia Cerebelli,) from a line to a hne and a half thick, placed against each other, concentric, regular, more extended pos- teriorly, shorter before, separated by narrow grooves, which are Imed by the pia mater, and over which the arachnoid membrane passes. Of these laminae, some arc confined to the upper surface