ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPKIllOR EXTREMITIES. 203 cavity of the scapula, while its base is fixed around the neck of the humerus, the circumference of which has more extent than that of the glenoid cavity. Its looseness is very remarkable, and it is much longer than necessary, merely to keep the surfaces in con- tact, permitting them to separate from eacli other more than an inch. Its outer surface is covered superiorly and internally, by the coraco-humeral ligament (65G) and deltoid muscle; a little more externally, by the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles, whose tendons are firmly attached to it; inferior- ly, the long portion of the triceps extensor muscle is only separat- ed from it by a thin layer of rather loose cellular tissue, which is also the case with the circumflex vessels and nerves; internally, it is interrupted by the passage of the tendon of the sub-scapularis muscle, which mingles part of its fibres with this ligament. From this interruption there generally results an oval aperture, the cir- cumference of which is strengthened above, and on the sides by two pretty distinct fibrous fasciculi. Its inner surface is completely lined by the synovial membrane. Its upper edge is attached around the glenoid cavity, beyond the glenoid ligament (657). Its infe- rior edge is fastened to the base of the neck of the humerus, ex- panding and prolonging itself considerably beneath this portion of the bone at its lower part, while at its upper it is confounded with the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. Between the two tuberosities of the humerus, this edge is interrupted by the passage of the tendon of the biceps flexor muscle, and attached to the two sides of the groove which lodges it. This ligament is formed of fibres crossing each other in all di- rections, and thicker above than any where else. The tendons of the different muscles which are inserted into the tuberosities of the humerus, are in part incorporated with it, and contribute in no small degree to strengthen it. 656. Coraco-humeral or Accessory Ligament. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the articulation, and is formed by a very dense fasciculus, which arises from the outer edge of the cora- coid process, and proceeding forwards and outwards, is attached to the anterior part of the great tuberosity of the humerus, mixing Its fibres with those of thq tendon of the infra-spinatus muscle. Its inner surface is intimately united to the capsule in the greater part of its extent. 657. Glenoid Ligament. {Ligamentum glenoideum). This is a sort of fibro-cartilaginous rim, which seems intended to increase the depth of the glenoid cavity ; it is especially formed by the fibres of the tendon of the long portion of the biceps muscle, which biturcates at the upper part of this cavity, embracing it, in the interval between its two branches; there are also distinguished in It, proper fibres. It has a somewhat prismatic and triangular form; Its thickest portion is fixed upon the circumference of the cavity ; Its tree edge, thin and bliarp. The synovial membrane covers