PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 2 THE ORGANIC ELEMENTS, OR PHOXIMATE ANIMAL PRINCIPLES. 5. In living bodies there are two kinds of elements, inorganic and organic. The inorganic elements are those which may be obtained by the processes of chemistry from minera,ls as well as or- ganized bodies ; they are, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, azote, fluor- ine, phosphorus, sulphur, iron, manganese, calcium, sodium, po- tassium, silicium, magnesium, and chlorine. By the mutual com- bination of these principles are formed the organic elements^ which exist only in living beings, and are the exclusive product of organ- ization ; they form a kind of substances which may be extracted from the bodies of animals by very simple processes. These or- ganic elements are, gelatine, albumen, fibrin, fat, mucus, and cer- tain other substances less generally distributed, or only existing under particular circumstances. 6. Gelatine, when pure, is a substance destitute of smell, taste, or colour, and heavier than water. It is distinguished from all animal principles by being soluble in warm water, which it renders more or less viscid, and forms what is called an animal jelly. This jelly is a hydrate of gelatine, and contains so much water, that it readily liquifies when heated ; on being left to itself, it quickly turns sour, and passes into putrid decomposition. Acids favour the solution of gelatine, as do likewise the alkalies; but alcohol, and especially tannin, precipitate it. With the latter it forms an insoluble compound, similar in its composition to leather, which is not liable to putrify. It is precipitated by several of the metal- lic salts. Gelatine does not occur naturally in any of the animal fluids, , which seems to confirm M. Thenard''s opinion that it does not ex- i ist ready formed in the economy, but is produced by the action of | caloric. 7. Alhicmen* is a very viscid, transparent fluid, nearly destitute 1 of smell, and taste. It froths on being agitated in water, and is 1 coagulated by heat, alcohol and the stronger acids; when burned I it gives out a peculiar smell. It has the property of decomposing corrosive sublimate, by reducing it to the state of calomel; in con- 1 sequence of this albumen is a ready and efficient antidote to this I poison. Lastly, it is always combined with sulphur and subcarbo- j nate of soda, the latter of which gives it the pi-operty of colouring | green the tincture of mallows and the syrup of violets. I This substance is found in almost all the animal fluids, the chyle, the synovia, the serum of the blood, &c. _ 8. Fibrin or Gluten, is a soft, white, solid substance, without ' either smell or taste, elastic when moist, but hard and brittle when dry. It is insoluble in water at the common temperature; when * Tlic Latin word nlhumcn, signifies the wliite of an egg, which is almost entirely composed of this principle.