OF THE SPLENIC ARTERY. 703 OF THE SPLENIC ABXERY. (Arteria Splenica.) 2524. In the adult it is larger than the hepatic, the reverse of which is observed in the cliild. At its commencement, it passes from right to left in a very tortuous manner along the upper part of the pancreas which lodges it in a particular groove. It thus arrives at the fissure of the spleen, after furnishing several branches,, which are the following. 2525. Pancreatic Branches (Art. PancreaticcB Medics et Sinis- trcB). They come off, in irregular number, from the lower part, of the splenic artery, dive perpendicularly into the substance of the pancreas, and there subdivide, to be united with the twigs of- pancreatic artery furnished by the right gastro-epiploic (2520). 2526. Left Gastro-epiploic Branch {Art. Gastro-epiploica Si-^ nistra). It arises from the trunk of the splenic artery, or only; from one of the branches by which it terminates. Its size is gener- ally equal to that of the right gastro-epiploic ; but it is frequently much larger, so as to appear to form the true continuation of the artery which gives rise to it, having its direction changed. It ascends at first a little to the left towards the great extremity of the stomach, is concealed for some time by it, and then descends along the great curvature. At its commencement, it sends some ramifications into the pancreas ; but along the great curvature, it sends upwards, over the two surfaces of the stomach, and down- wards, into the great omentum, twigs of larger size, which are dis- tributed precisely in the same manner as those of the right gastro- epiploic artery, with which it anastomoses toward the middle of the great curvature (2520.) 2527- At some distance from the fissure of the spleen, the ar- tery divides into two or three branches, which subdivide into seven or eight twigs, which diverge from each other, before entering the inner surface of the spleen. They penetrate into that viscus by so many separate apertures which are observed along its fissure, pre- sently subdivide to infinity, anastomosing with each other by arches, and seem in a great measure to constitute the proper tissue of the organ. 2528. Vasa Brevia. These are pretty large but very short twigSy which come from the terminating branches of the splenic artery be- fore their entrance into the spleen, and immediately pass to the large extremity of the stomach, near the cardia, where they expand over the two surfaces of that organ, anastomosing with the trans- verse oesophageal twigs of the coronary artery (2515). In this manner, they serve to complete the arterial circle which envelopes the cardia.