OF THE LUMBAR NERVES. 503 follow the lower edge of each of tlie ril)s, and leave it, passing over theinscrtionsof the diaphragm (1278), which receives no filaments from them, to pass into the walls of the abdomen, between the transversalis and obliquus internus muscles, into which they send some divisions. Then, arriving at the outer edge of the rectus muscle, they separate into deepjllaments vfhich. penetrate its fibres by its posterior surface, and sujierjicialJUaments which lose them- selves in the integuments of the anterior region of the abdomen. The outer twigs perforate the external intercostal muscles, and se- parate into filaments which, like those of the preceding branches, are distributed, on the one hand, in the integuments of the lateral parts of the thorax, and on the other, in the serratus magnus and obhquus externus, and in the integuments of the abdomen. 1792. Anterior Branch of the Twelfth Dorsal Pair. At itS; commencement, it sends a filament of communication to the ante- rior branch of the first lumbar nerve. It then separates from the twelfth rib, directs itself outwards and downwards, passes behind the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle, and before the quadratus lumborum, gives some filaments to the latter as well as to the diaphragm, and divides into two twigs opposite the anterior extremity of the rib. One of these twigs passes between the two oblique muscles of the abdomen, gives them some ramifications, becomes superficial, and loses itself in the in-, teguments, descending as far as the iliac crest. The other insinuates itself between the obliquus internus and transversus muscles, gives them some filaments, and loses itself in the rectus and pyraraidalis muscles of the abdomen. OE THE LUMBAR NEKYES. {Nervi Lumborum.) 1793. Of these nerves there are five pairs. They are designat- ed by their numerical names, counting from above downwards. The first issues between the first two vertebrae of the loins, and the fifth between the last vertebra and the sacrum. These nerves arise, very near each other, from the inferior bulging of the spinal marrow (1520). Like those of all the other vertebral nerves, their roots are formed of two bundles of filaments ; but here these bun- dles are very broad, .especially for the last three pairs. The fila- ments which constitute them are immediately enveloped by a neurilema, and, although very near each other, do not commu- nicate together. They may therefore be traced separately for a long time, and thus contribute to form a kind of cord expand- ed into many filaments, which the older writers named the Cauda eqinna. These roots descend very obliquely in the vertebral ca- nal, which disposition is much more decided in the inferior pairs than in the superior. There results from it that the place of their