STIIUCTUUE OF THE BRAIN IN rARTICULAR. 425 wbich are separated by distinct but rather shallow grooves. The upper sit if ace of the Cornua Ammonis is free in the bottom of the ^ ventricles, and covered by the choroid plexus. ^ Their convex edge is circumscribed by a very distinct groove, behind which the sub- <stance which forms the bottom of the ventricles presents a bulging, V which follows the direction of the cornua ammonis, and is some- : times equally large. This bulging is named the Jdditatnentum ipedum Hippocampi. Their concave edge is covered by the cor- f pus iimbriatum, under which there is found a denticulated cord ({Portion godronee, Vicq d'Azyr), of a compact tissue, granulated ^appearance, and reddish colour, of which few authors have made r mention. "- The mass of cineritious substance which occupies the anterior of tthe cornu Ammonis bifurcates at its posterior extremity, under the tfold of the corpus callosum. One of its branches communicates 1 with a convolution of the posterior lobe ; the other, which is short- (er, is confounded in one of the convolutions of the middle lobe. In its course backwards, from the point where it recurvates, the (Corpus callosum receives the convergent filaments of the inner con- ' volutions of the posterior lobes of the brain. 1543. We have already mentioned (1539) that the transverse I fibres of the corpus callosum bend over the sides of the raphe to ] proceed downwards. It is probable that by their still further pro- j longation the Septum lucidum is formed, a kind of thin, lamellar, i soft production, which is continuous above with the middle part of I the inferior surface of the corpus callosum, in its whole extent, and ' which, inferiorly and posteriorly, is connected with the fornix, and i inferiorly and anteriorly, with the recurved lamina of the anterior t extremity of the corpus callosum. It separates the two lateral • ventricles from each other; it is very high at its fore part, and ] progressively diminishes backwards, so that its two lateral surfaces i are triangular. They correspond posteriorly to the optic thalami, 1 Ahd anteriorly to the corpora striata. This septum is composed of I two laminfE of fibrous white substance, lined in their whole extent I by the arachnoid membrane, and only applied against each other. There exists a separation between them, which is more or less I apparent in different subjects, and often much greater in the I fcetus than in the child, and in the latter than in the adult; it is « Gordiform in the earliest stage of life ; an elongated sHt in old ] persons; it is sometimes filled by a pretty abundant serous fluid. This separation is the Fossa Sylvii or Fifth Ventricle. It is « doubtful whether it is lined by a membrane or not. The brothers Wenzel think it is, and in certain cases of disease flakes may « easily be raised from it. With respect to its alleged communica- tion with the ventricles, the same anatomists have discovered at its I'osterior extremity, a small fossa, the extent of which is not always in relation to that of the principal cavity ; it is triangular or cordi- lonn, and a bristle passed into it, penetrates into the third vcntri-