AIITICULATIONTS OF THE TRUNK. 183 separate so many bundles of fibres, between which there exist small intervals, irregular as to form and position, for the passage of blood- vessels and cellular tissue. This ligament is very narrow in the ..neck, broader in the back, still broader in the lumbar region, and V so disposed as to cover the greater part of the bodies of the verte- 1' hrse. It is thin in the cervical and lumbar regions, thicker in the ■ back, and everywhere follows the inequalities of the vertebrae, ac- ; commodating itself to all their flexuosities. Its a?iterior suyface : corresponds, in the neck, to the pharynx and oesophagus; in the : back, to the oesophagus, the aorta, the vena azygos, and the tho- r racic duct; in the loins, to the aorta, the vena cava inferior, the ' receptaculura chyli, and a great number of lymphatic vessels and : glands. All these parts are connected to it by loose cellular tissue. 1 In the lumbar region, its fibres are strengthened by those of the tendons of the pillars of the diaphragm, with which they are inter- laced. Its posterior surface is applied against the bodies of the vvertebrfB, and the fibro-cartilages which separate them; it is ob- < served to contract a firmer adhesion to the latter than to the for- mer, and that it is much more firmly fixed to the projecting edges iof the body of each vertebra than to its middle part. The lateral •edges of this ligament are much thinner than it is in the middle; : they correspond, in the cervical region, to the recti capitis antici imajores and longi colli muscles, and in the lumbar region to the [ psoae muscles. On the sides of this ligament and under the longi colli muscles, : there occur, in the cervical region only, and for each vertebral ar- ticulation, two small fibrous fasciculi, which extend obliquely, from kabove downwards and from within outwards, from the upper ver- tebra to that beneath it. Their fibres are short and thin, and frequently in a great part confounded with the fibro-cartilage over ' which they are applied. The fibres which constitute this ligament do not occupy its whole length; they even have not all the same dimensions. The supsr- I ficial fibres cover the bodies of four or five vertebrae ; those which are intermediate, are lost beyond the third vertebra below that from which they have risen; the deepest are still shorter, and ' only go from one vertebra to that which is immediately below ' It. It is also to be observed, that in general these fibres arise in much greater numbers from the fibro-cartilages than the vertebraj themselves. 697. Poster 'tor commoji ligament. (Ligamentum commune posteriiis, sen Fascia longituditialis postica.) This ligament is. Connected above with another ligament named the occipito-a.void, which is a kind of membrane, thicker laterally than at its middle part, IS attached superiorly in front of the occipital hole to the ba- silar groove, and descends within the vertebral canal, as far as the level of the body of the axis, passing behind the odontoid process Its fibres are vertical, parallel', close, and of unequal length. The yceper fibres arc attached to the upper edge of the transverse Ji,