357 MUSCLES OF THE INFEIIIOH EXTREMITIES. OF THE COCCYGEtJS. 1317. The Coccygetis (ischio-coccygeus) is of a triangular form, thin, and Hat, and concurs, witli the preceding, behind and above which it is phiced, to form the floor of the abdominal cavity. At- tached to the inside of the sciatic spine, it descends enlarging to be attached to the whole edge of the coccyx, and the lower part of the lateral surface of the sacrum ; it is even prolonged a little upon the anterior surface of that bone. This muscle is a mixture of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres, which seem to be confounded in an intimate manner with those of the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament. It fre- quently receives, from the lower part of the sacrum, a small bundle, (the Curmtor coccygis of Soemmering) thin, slender, descending over the middle of the coccyx, and uniting with the two muscles at once. 1318. Its posterior surface, which inclines downwards, is cover- ed by the two sacro-sciatic ligaments. The anterior corresponds to the rectum and the cellular tissue which surrounds it. 1319- It retains the coccyx, and prevents it from being turned backwards during the excretion of the feces. Its motions are not very decided. 1320. To show the levator ani, it is necessary to remove the is- chium, by sawing it through below its spine on the one hand, and ■where it joins the ramus of the pubes on the other : the outer sur- face of the muscle is thus exposed, and may be easily dissected, by filling the cavity of the pelvis with a towel, to make it project out- wards. The coccygeus is found lying on the fore part of the small sacro- sciatic ligament. MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. DF THE ENVELOriNG APONEUllOSIS OF THE INFERIOR EXTKE- MITY. 1321. The inferior extremities, like the superior (1105), are en- veloped in their whole extent, by a very distinct fibrous sheath, placed between the muscles and integuments. This aponeurotic sheath is called: in the thigh, the Fascia lata; in the leg, the Aponeurosis of the Leg. 1322. Fascia lata. This is the strongest aponeurosis in the body- It is very thick at the outside of the thigh, but less so anteriorly and posteriorly, and still thinner at the inner side ; it IS formed of fibres crossing each other in different directions, and perforated by a great number of holes for the passage of nerves and vessels. ° Its upper and fore part, called the iliac portion, is at;-