213 MUSCLES OF TIIK BACK. By these incisions there are two Haps which must be successive- ly dissected; the upper, from below upwards, and the lower from above downwards, always taking care to follow the direction of the fibres. When the upper flap is being dissected, the shoulder should be drawn downwards, when, on the contrary, the lower flap is to be dissected, the shoulder is to be drawn upwards and for- wards. OF THE LATISSIMUS DOItSI. 805. The latissimits dorsi is a broad, thin, flat muscle, very ir- regularly quadrilateral, situated upon the posterior, lateral, and in- ferior region of the trunk, extending from the lower part of the back to the arm, passing over the inferior angle of the scapula, and the posterior part of the axilla. The greater part of its fleshy fibres are inserted along the outer edge of a strong aponeurosis, which is contracted at its upper part, but very broad below, where it is incorporated with that of the serratus posticus inferior, and the obliquus internus abdominis. This aponeurosis, which is formed of fibres interlaced in all directions below, and following the direction of the fleshy fibres above, arises from the last five, six, seven, or eight spinous processes of the back, from all those of the loins and sacrum, from the asperities of the sacral grooves, and from the posterior part of the iliac crest, where it is continuous with aponeurotic fibres of the glutasus maximus and sacro-spinalis. The other fleshy fibres of the latissimus dorsi come from the outer sur- f;ice of the last three or four ribs by digitations, at first aponeu- rotic, which are laid the one over the other so as to present an im- bricated appearance from above downwards, and which are inter- laced with digitations of the obliquus externus abdominis, with which they form a pretty acute angle. After thus commencing, the fibres of the muscle, which are so much the shorter and less oblique the higher they are, converge and proceed to the lower angle of the scapula, the upper fibres passing horizontally outwards, and those of the costal digitations ascending almost vertically. When arrived there, the muscle pre- sents little breadth, but much thickness, and often receives a small fleshy bundle from the scapula; then contracting considerably, it continues its progress upwards and outwards, at first applied upon the teres major, it afterwards turns round it, so as to be nearly co- vered in its turn by that muscle. Lastly, arrived in the vicinity of the humerus, the fleshy fibres of the latissimus dorsi give rise to a tendon about three inches long and an inch broad. This tendon is turned from below up- wards, and from behind forwards, over the lower edge of the teres major, whose direction it crosses a little. Its lower part receives the fleshy fibres of the upper part of the muscle, and its upper part those from below. At first, contiguous with the tendon of the