^90 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and flat below. It is situated on the sides of the posterior ape tures of the nasal fossae. It arises by short aponeuroses, from th under surface of the petrous process, before the external orifice the carotid canal (177)5 and from the neighbouring part of th Eustachian tube. From thence it descends somewhat oblique! backwards and inwards, becomes broader, and terminates at tli' middle part of the velum palati, becoming confounded with that ( the opposite side, the levator uvulae, and a little with the palato pharyngeus and the aponeurosis of the circumflexus palati. 1045. Its outer surface corresponds above to the circumflexuy palati, and below to the palato-pharyngeus and constrictor pharynl gis superior. The inner is lined above by the mucous membrau' of the pharynx, and below by that of the velum palati. 1046. It raises the velum palati so as to apply it against th' posterior apertures of the nasal fossae. OF THE LEVATOn UVULAE. {Azygos Uvulce.) 1047. This is a small elongated fusiform fleshy bundle, whicl occupies the substance of the uvula, and is sometimes single although in most cases distinct on both sides. It arises froii the guttural spine and aponeurosis common to the two circuni > flex muscles, and descends vertically to the tip of the uvula. It i connected anteriorly with the levator palati mollis, and coverti behind by the posterior membrane of the velum palati. It raise and shortens the uvula. OF THE PALATO-PHARYNG^EDS. 1048. This is a membranous muscle, broader at its extremitic < than its middle part, placed vertically in the lateral wall of thi I pharynx and in the velum palati. From its origins being veiy dis ■ tinct from each other, it may be divided into three portions, whicl "Winslow has described as so many separate muscles. The first o upper {Peristaphylo-pharyngcBus), is attached to the posterior edg of the palatine vault, and to the aponeurosis of the circumflexu palati, confounding itself in the middle with that of the opposite side. It is broad and thin, and descends posteriorly in the velun palati. The second or middle portion (JPharyngo-staphyUnns) r occupies the posterior pillar of the velum palati, and seems by it union with that of the opposite side, and with the aponeurosis 0 the circumflexi palati muscles, to form a sort of arch above tin tonsils : it is very narrow. Both are continuous inferiorly witl the third or lower portion (Thyro-stophylbms), which is lateralis flattened, while the others were so from before backwards, anc