ORGANS OF SENSATION. 434 versed by the filaments of the portio mollis of the seventh pair. Farther clown, at the foramen lacerum posteriiis, it envelopes the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and is continued into the periosteum of the outer part of the base of the skull. A thinner lamina surrounds the internal jugular vein. It also sends into the anterior condyloid foramen a fibrous canal, which is in like manner continuous with the periosteum. 1565. Through the great occipital hole the dura mater passes into the vertebral canal, in the interior of which it forms an in- fundibuliform membraneous sheath, rounded in its whole extent, narrower than the bony canal, but much wider than the spinal mar-" row. Its external surface does not adhere to the vertebraa, from which it is separated by a reddish, adipose, loose, and filamentous cellular tissue, excepting anteriorly, where it contracts a pretty in- timate adhesion to the posterior vertebral ligament (597)- On the sides, this membraneous sheath furnishes a small canal for each nerve, as it issues through the corresponding intervertebral fora- men. These small canals are so much the longer, wider, and more oblique the lower they are, and are all obviously dilated in the in- terior of the intervertebral hole, on account of the small ganglion which is observed there. At the outside of the vertebral column, they lose themselves in the neighbouring cellular tissue, without being continued into the periosteum, as is the case around the skull. The meningeal sheath of the spinal marrow terminates in- feriorly by five ligamentous filaments which fix it to the sacrum and coccyx. 1566. Internal surface of the dura mater. It is lined in its whole extent by the arachnoid membrane, which gives it a smooth polished and glossy appearance, and adheres intimately to it, ex- cepting at the middle of the sphenoid bone, where it is separated from it by the pituitary body. It gives rise to several folds, which are the Falx Cerebri, Tentorium Cerebelli, and Falx Cerehelli. 1567- Falx Cerebri (falx major). This is a lamina which ex- tends from one extremity of the cranium to the other in the mcr- dian line, broad behind, gradually contracting as it advances for- wards, having a considerable resemblance to the blade of a sickle, and occupying the longitudinal fissure of the brain, so as to separate its two hemispheres from each other. Its upper edge, which is thick and convex, corresponds anteriorly to the frontal ridge, then in the middle to the sagittal suture, and posteriorly to the middle groove of the occipital bone. It lodges the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower edge is free, concave, thin, and of much less ex>- tent; it is placed above the corpus callosum, which it touches pos- teriorly, and contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. Its anierior extremity embraces the crista galli; the posterior is continued nito the tentorium cerebelli, and contains the straight sinus- In some subjects, the tissue of the falx is mterrupted in its continuity, so that there are observed perforations in it veu-ying in size and more or less irregular, which seem to form meshes between its ligamen- tous bundles.