ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 1S7 ; and loins, but are wanting in the neck, where they seem to be sub- istituted by tlie muscles of the same name ; they represent so many small mernbranes, whose form varies according to that of the space which they occupy, so that they are narrow and somewhat elon- .gated in the back, while they are broad and quadrilateral in the loins : they are stronger and thicker, the lower their situation is in Ithe spine. Their surfaces, which are lateral, correspond on either side of the median line, to the erector muscles of the spine. One of their edges is attached above to the lower edge of the upper pro- cess, and another below, to the upper edge of that situated beneath. IPosteriorly, they are confounded with the ligament by which the iapices^of the spinous processes are connected, and anteriorly with 'the yellow ligaments. They are composed of irregular bundles of fibres, which follow different directions, but generally proceed ob- iliquely, and in an opposite direction to the inferior process and the mext ligament, so as to cross each other. 602. Ligament by which the apices of the spinous processes of the •vertebrcB are connected, [Ligamentum quo apices processuum spi- K770sortcm vertehrarum connectuntiir'). It is situated behind the -summit of the spinous processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, ifrom the seventh cervical vertebra to the middle posterior tubercles of the sacrum. In the back, it is very narrow and mvich thinner I than in the loins ; in both regions, its fibres are closely interlaced i.with those of the aponeuroses of the neighbouring muscles ; but ithey may easily be distinguished on account of their longitudinal ildirection. These fibres have not all the same length, but present ::an arrangement similar to that which we have already observed »with respect to the anterior vertebral ligament, in other words, they i^extend to two, three, four, or five spinous processes, according as t they are deep-seated, intermediate, or superficial. Its poste^'ior ^surface is covered by the skin, which strongly adheres to it by means of a dense cellular tissue. Its anterior surface sends fibres to the interspinal ligaments, while its edges confound theirs with the dorsal and lumbar aponeuroses. 603. These are not the only fibrous organs which the vertebral column presents at its surface. Wcitbrecht, Soemmering, and Lauth admit inter-transverse ligaments, which according to them !■ exist between the transverse processes, from the fifth dorsal verte- bra to the eleventh. But these ligaments are nothing but thin bundles of irregular fibres, which seem to be confounded with the' tendons of the muscles of the vertebral grooves, and which ap- pear destined rather to give them insertion, than to connect the bones. Around each intcr-vertebral foramen, there also occur cir- cular and irregular bundles of fibres, frequently sending off a pro- 1 ongation which divides the hole into two portions, and are espe- cially manifest in the lumbar region.