76D OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. The third, of which the roots are scattered upon the middle of the right lobe, gains the posterior part of the liver, and unites in part with the preceding. Some of the trunks of which it is com- , posed ascend in the thorax, between the oesophagus and aorta, and I open directly into the thoracic duct. The fourth comes from the anterior region of the right lobe. ; Some of its vessels ascend in the suspensory ligament to unite 1 with those of the first bundle. The rest descend in the fissure of I the liver, there join the deep vessels, and divide in some ganglia : near the pylorus. Several are seen following a retrograde course . along the free edge of the liver, and terminating to the right with t those of the second bundle. On the left lobe of the liver, the superficial lymphatics may be ( distinguished into three separate parcels. .V Those of the first parcel ascend from their commencement in the ; suspensory ligament, and there join those of the first bundle of the : right lobe. Those of the second parcel arise from the whole surface of the i left lobe, gain the left lateral ligament of the liver, and there divide ! into two portions. The inferior bend to the right, between the I lobulus Spigehi of the liver and the small curvature of the sto- ■ mach, and lose themselves in some gangha, where they meet those ■ of the stomach and lower surface of the liver. The superior pro- i ceed to the left, under the diaphragm, and join the lymphatics of I tlie spleen, near the large extremity of the stomach. Lastly, the lymphatics of the third parcel come from the poste- I rior part of the left lobe, descend towards the cardia, and go to the ; ganglia of the small curvature of the stomach. 2828. Superficial Lymphatics of the Inferior Surface of the . Liver. Some of them take their origin between the circumference { of the liver and gall-bladder. They are pretty numerous, descend I to the left, and divide in the ganglia which surround the vena cava ; and aorta. Others originate over the whole surface of the gaU- I bladder, unite into large trunks, which embrace the neck of that. I reservoir, and terminate in the ganglia situated behind the duode- I num. Some of them issue from the lobulus quadratus, forming a : single trunk, which durects itself towards the gall-bladder, and^ j joins the others. Lastly, others stiU come from the whole extent ( of the left lobe and lobulus Spigehi, and unite with the preceding, ( or with the deep lymphatics. 2829- Deep Lymphatics of the Liver. They originate in all [ parts of the parenchyma of the liver, accompanying the ramifica- : tions of the blood vessels and biliary ducts, emerge along with : them by the fissure, collect in great numbers around the lobule, s slip between the laminae of the hepato-gastric omentum, gain the - g*"gha of the small curvature of the stomach or those which sur- : round the cccliac artery, and thus terminate towards the com- r mencement of the thoracic duct. 3 D