OF INJECTING THE ABSORBENTS. 775 or three trunks, to the left, into the highest part of the thoracic duct, and to the, right, into the great lymphatic vein of that side. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 2852. Lymphatics of the Brain. The lymphatic vessels of the brain and its membranes are not yet known in a satisfactory man- ner. Although the most minute researches have been made in those parts, there have only been distinctly traced a few trunks that are met with in the dura mater. 2853. Deep Lymphatics of the Tongue, Palate, Nose, Orbits, Pharynx, Muscles of the Face, S^c. They all follow the course of the blood-vessels, gain the sub-parotid ganglia and those which en- velope the internal jugular veins. They there divide a great num- ber of times, join some trunks from the larynx and thyroid body, and open partly into the right and left internal jugular and sub- clavian veins, partly into the thoracic duct to the left, and into the great lymphatic vein to the right, by a greater or less number of trunks. OF INJECTING THE ABSORBENTS. 2854. The absorbents are injected with quicksilver by means of an apparatus which consists of a glass tube, and very fine iron or platina pipes of different sizes which are adapted to the end of it. The quicksilver is poured into the tube, and, according to the height of its column, issues from the pipe with greater or less force. The apparatus may also consist of a glass tube merely having one of its extremities drawn out to a very fine point before the blow- pipe ; this latter instrument may be made much more delicate than the former, but it has the inconvenience of breaking easUy. " In order to discover the absorbent vessels, make an incision in the cutis, and remove a part of it as far as the cellular membrane, where they arise plentifully, yet from their transparency, may so elude the eye as to require a magnifying glass to discover them. " The subjects most favourable for injecting are those who have died anasarcous, as in such the lymphatics are somewhat enlarged, and more evident. This is one of the most delicate preparations, requiring the greatest dexterity of any part of experimental ana- tomy." As the absorbents, like the veins, have valves, it is therefore necessary to inject them from their branches; for this purpose, " with the point of a lancet, make an orifice in one of them, suffi- cient to introduce the pipe, which is to be kept in that situation by the finger, or rather, by means of a ligature; and wlien the cock is turned, the quicksilver will be seen to flow up the lympha- tic, though, after the first entrance of the quicksilver, the uniformity