643 ORGANIZATION OF TPIE HEART. their whole length, the internal columnae alone being terminated by tendons. 2272. Membrane of the Right Cavities of the Heart. This is evidently continuous with the membrane which lines the vessels destined for the circulation of the black blood. On leaving the venie cavje it lines the whole extent of the auricle, being applied upon the muscular bundles, and, in their intervals, against the se- rous lamina of the pericardium, to which it is united by a dense but spare cellular tissue. Beneath the vena cava inferior it is fold- ^ ed upon itself to form the Eustachian valve, and afterwards that of : the coronary vein of the heart. At the circumference of the auri- I culo-ventricular orifice, it is separated from the muscular tissue by ; a layer of thin and semi-fluid fat, which constitutes the white zone I of which we have spoken. There also, it is folded upon itself, on Heaving the walls of the organ, to give rise to the tricuspid valves ; ; after which it hues the whole ventricle, becoming excessively thin, i introduces itself into the pulmonary artery, forms at its origin the t three semilunar valves, and is continued to the last ramifications of t that vessel. 2273. Membrane of the Left Cavities of the Heart. It forms ppart of that which lines the walls of the vessels that carry red blood. . It commences at the extremities of the pulmonary veins, lines them :in their whole extent, and the whole cavity of the auricle without ■.'presenting any fold, and penetrates into the ventricle. At the en- trance of the latter, its thickness increases a little, and it is folded lupon itself to form the mitral valves, but afterwards becomes vvery thin. It leaves that part to proceed into the aorta, and from tkhence into all the arteries of the body. It is of it that the three seemilunar valves are formed, which are found in that vessel near tits origin. 2274. The arteries of the heart are two in number. They rise ammediately from the aorta, and are called Coronary. Its veins, which are known under the same name, discharge themselves into khe right auricle. Its lymphatics, which are very numerous, go to khe ganglia situated before the arch of the aorta and left bronchus, tfts nerves, which are also very numerous, and which have already ween described, come from the cardiac ganglion (1900). Lastly, we may consider a portion of the serous lamina of the pericardium as entering into the composition of the heart, the outer surface of bemg invested by it in its whole extent.