ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOX. 368 will be found, by removing tlio crural vessels and pubic portion,of. the fascia lata. Cut the gracilis and proceed to the examination of the adductors. The adductor longus first presents itself on the removal of the fascia lata; the anterior surface of the adductor brevis (1354) is seen on raising the preceding and the pectineus ; the anterior surface of the adductor magnus is next to be dissect- ed, but to perceive all its connexions, it also requires to be examin- ed from behind, during the dissection of the muscles of the poste- rior part of the thigh. MUSCLES OF THE HAUNCH. OF THE GLUT.EUS MAXIMUS. 13G0. This muscle which is broad, very thick and quadrilateral, is what especially forms the hip. It is attached above by short aponeurotic fibres to the posterior part of the crest of the ileum to an vuieven, convex, and narrow portion of the outer surface of the same bone, (390), to the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, on which it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the sacro-lumbalis and latissimus dorsi, (832, 805) ; in the middle, to the inequalities of the posterior surface of the sacrum, to the circumference of the notch which terminates the sacral canal, and to the lateral parts of the coccyx, as far as the summit of that bone ; externally and in- feriorly, to the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament. The fleshy fibres from these different places, collect into very distinct fasciculi, sepa^ rated from one another by lines filled with cellular tissue. All these fasciculi, which are parallel to each other, and longer the nearer they are to the lower part of the muscle, descend obliquely outwards and forwards, towards the great trochanter. The upper fasciculi terminate at the upper part of a tendon, very thick and narrow below, broad and thin above, and so incorporated externally with the fascia lata, as to be inseparable from it. This tendon, as it descends, receives the other fleshy fibres in succession along its posterior edge, from the level of the great trochanter, and is after- ^ wards inserted, in an extent of about three inches, into a rough im- pression, which proceeds from the base of the great trochanter to the linea aspera of the femur, and into the upper part of that line, between the adductor magnus and vastus externus. 1361. The posterior surface of the glutaeus maximus is imme- diately covered by a very thin lamina of the fascia lata, and con- nected with the skin by a layer of extremely thick adipose tissue. The anterior surface is applied upon the os innominatum, the sa- crum, the coccyx, the common origin of the sacro-lumbalis and lon- gissimus dorsi, the glutaeus medius, pyriformis, gemelli, obturator intcrnus, and quadratus femoris muscles, the sciatic nerve, the tu- ber ischii, the posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, the upper extremity of the biceps and scmitendinosus, the great trochanter, and the ad--