OllGANIZATION OF THE EYELIDS. 54.7 belongs to the upper eyelid is placed between the orbicularis mus- cle and the expanded aponeurosis of the levator palpebrae ; that of the lower eyelid is immediately applied upon the tunica conjuncti- va. These two portions have their fibres mutually interlaced, from , the angle of union of the tarsal cartilages to the outer angle of the . orbit, and proceed from thence to the corresponding part of the circumference of that cavity, as well as to the edge of the carti- lages, diminishing progressively in strength and thickness, so as to be substituted internally by a lamellar tissue loaded with fat Apertures are observed in several places of it for the passage of nerves and vessels. Moreover, the upper eyelid presents a second fibrous layer, crossing the direction of the above, which is constituted by the aponeurosis of its levator muscle which attaches itself to the corre- sponding fibro-cartilage (958). 1945. Tarsal Fihro-Cartilages. These are two small laminse placed in the substance of the free edge of each eyelid, on the same level as the fibrous layer. Each of them commences at the bifurcated extremity of the tendon of the orbicularis muscle (893) and terminates externally, by uniting with its fellow opposite the crossing of the two fibrous layers. They are much broader in the middle than at the extremities, and differ in their form as well as size. The upper, which is larger, is about six lines broad, and is very contracted at the two ends, while the loiver is only about two lines in breadth, and presents nearly the same dimensions in its whole extent. Their anterior surface is convex, and is in connex- ion with the orbicularis muscle; the posterior is concave, lined by the tunica conjunctiva, and marked with several vertical grooves, which lodge the Meibomian glands. Their adherent edge gives attachment to the fibrous layer of each eyelid; but in the upper eyelid it is strongly curved, and affords insertions to the levator muscle, while in the lower it appears rectilinear. Their yree or ciliary edge is broad and thick, rounded, and slantingly cut (1939-) These two fibro-cartilages are rather thin, very flexible, highly elastic, and of a slightly yellowish tint, but present nothing pecu- liar in their structure. 1946. Meibomian Glands or Ciliary Follicles. These are ' small round follicles, lodged in particular grooves, between the tarsal cartilages and the tunica conjunctiva. They are disposed one above another, in such a manner as to represent two vertical and parallel lines of a yellowish colour, sometimes straight, some- times flexuous, sometimes ramified, more numerous and more distinct in the upper eyelid, where there are thirty or forty, than in the lower, where there are only about twenty. Those which occupy the middle part are longer and narrower than those of the extremities. The intervals by which they are separated are larger m the upper eyelid than in the other, and towards their attached edge than towards the free edge. Each follicle is rounded, white • or yellowish, hard, and pretty tenacious. They communicate with