LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 399 The epiglottis is rarely ossified. When this happens, it pre- sents a multitude of small bony nuclei, irregularly disseminated, and separated by very visible areolae. Of the IJgameiits of the Larynx. OF THE THYUO-HYOIU AKTICULATION. 1477- The thyroid cartilage is connected at its upper edge with the hyoid bone by means of a broad yellowish membrane, {mem- hrana thyro-hyoidea), thicker in its middle part than at the sides, rather cellular than fibrous, covered on its anterior surface by the thyro-hyoidei, sterno-hyoidei, and orao-hyoidei muscles, and lined on the posterior by the mucous membrane of the larynx, and the base of the epiglottis, from which it is separated by the gland of that name. The upper edge of this membrane is attached to the posterior surface of the body and great horns of the hyoid bone; and the lower, to the whole length of the upper edge of the thy- roid cartilage. The great horns of this cartilage are connected with the extrem- ity of those of the hyoid bone by two round fibrous cords, about an inch long, and almost always containing two or three cartilaginous grains. OF THE CIUCO-THYROin ARTICULATIONS. 1478 In the middle and anteriorly, the thyroid cartilage is con- nected with the cricoid by the Crico-tliyroid Membrane; this membrane is distinctly fibrous, of a yellowish colour, thick, especi- ally at the middle, perforated with several small apertures, which give passage to blood-vessels. It is attached to the two anterior thirds of the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage, and fixed, on the other hand, to the middle part of the lower edge of the thyroid cartilage, on the sides of which it is gradually con- founded with the mucous membrane of the larynx, which it strengthens. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoidei and crico-thyroidei muscles, and is traversed in a transverse direc- tion by a small artery. The posterior surface is invested by the mucous membrane of the larynx. On the sides, the small horns of the thyroid cartilage are articu- lated by arthrodia with the cricoid cartilage, by means of small smooth surfaces, covered by a loose and pretty humid synovial membrane. Two ligaments, an anterior, which descends for- wards from the small horn over the cricoid cartilage, and a pos- terior, which ascends backwards from the same point, towards the base of the arytenoid cartilages, where it is expanded, keep these