ARTICULATIONS OF THE TUOUACIC EXTUEMITIES. 213 o-inous substance, and a rather loose synovial membrane, which passes from the one to the other. 694. Capsular Ligament. This is the only ligament which the articulation presents. It is formed of longitudinal libres, more dis- tinct externally and behind than in the other directions, and passes from the circumference of the upper extremity of the metacarpal bone to that of the articular surface of the trapezium. They leave separations between them, through which the synovial capsule, which lines their inner surface, is perceived. This articulation is also much strengthened by the muscles of the thumb. ABTICDLATIOXS OF THE FOUK LAST METACAIIPAL BONES WITH THE CARPUS. 695. We have already described the surfaces which constitute these articulations, and the synovial membrane which invests their cartilages, (691). They only present two kinds of ligaments, an- terior and posterior., 696. Dorsal or Posterior Ligaments. They descend from the posterior surface of the bones of the second carpal row to the four last metacarpal bones. The trapezium and trapezoides send each one to the second of these bones ; the os magnum furnishes one to the third; the fourth has two, of which, one comes from the os magnum, the other from the os unciforme; the latter bone gives rise to the single ligament which belongs to the fifth metacarpal bone. All these small fasciculi are very short, flat, quadrilateral, thin and very compact. They leave between them spaces through which blood-vessels pass. 697- Palmar or Anterior Ligaments. They are much less dis- tinct than the posterior, but in other respects present exactly the same arrangement. The third metacarpal bone is the only one that exhibits any difference ; it is connected with the trapezium by two superficial hgaments, situated above the sheath of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and by a deep ligament situated beneath that sheath ; it is also connected with the unciform bone by a par- ticular fasciculus. 1 AIITICUI-ATION OF THE METACARPAL BONES WITH EACH OTHER. 698. The first metacarpal bone is isolated. The others touch each other at their upper part by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and already described, as well as the synovial cap- W\ 1 ^' ^^^^^ invests them. The surfaces by which the third and fourth metacarpal bones are united, are the only ones tor which there exists a small synovial bag. Dorsal and Palmar