97 OF THE FACE IN GENERAL. 328. From the first incisor to the first large molar, the teeth gradually increase in size, and afterwards diminish ; their length, however, is in general uniform, otherwise mastication would be hampered; the intervals by which they are separated are very small; but they are always more extensive towards the roots, which gives them a triangular form (207). 329. If we are to give credit to observers, the dentar arches have sometimes been seen double or even triple. One of the sons of Columbus furnished that anatomist with an example. Accord- ing to Thomas Bartolin, Louis XIII. of France presented the same anomaly. This arrangement, however, is of rare occurrence ; but it not unfrequently happens, in consequence of some disorder in the second dentition, that some of the teeth are double. 330. Below the inferior dentar arch, there are observed, in the middle line, the symphysis and eminence of the chin, and on each side, the mental hole, the external oblique line, and the insertion of the levator menti, the depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, and the platysma myoides. 331. Posterior or Guttural Region. This region is much broader than high, and extends transversely from one of the paro- tideal edges of the lower maxillary bone to the other, and vertical- ly from the posterior nasal spine to the upper edge of the vomer. In the middle, it presents the posterior edge of this bone, and its articulation with the palate bones. On the sides, there is first ob- served tlie posterior aperture of the nasal fossce (apertura nari- um posterior), which is higher than broad, and of an elliptical form. At the upper part of this orifice, is the portion of the ptery- go-palatine canal, which is formed in the palate bone; at its out- er part, is seen the tuberosity of the palate bone ; and externally of the latter, between it and the rami of the jaw, there occurs an empty space, filled in the recent state by the outer pterygoid muscle, Lastly, the parotideal edge of the lower jaw Umits this region later- ally. 332. Inferior or Palatine Region. This region is naturally di- vided mto two portions, one superior and horizontal, named the vault of the palate; the other vertical and inferior; the latter is tormed by the mner surface of the dentar and alveolar arches, and by the lower maxillary bone; the former, by the upper maxillary and palate bones united. ^ ii j 333. The palatine vault, which is invested with the membrane pt the same name, is of a parabolical form, and intersected longi- tudinally by a suture, formed by the union of the palate and su- pmor maxillary bones with their fellows of the opposite side ; this buturc, which IS destitute of indentations, is terminated posteriorly oy the posterior nasal spine, to wliich is attached the levator r' . anteriorly at the lower orifice of the anterior paia me canal This orifice, which is at first very wide, soon con- t,mo;. !j P^''"^^^^^ apertures; two smaller lateral, si- tuated the one to the left and behind, the other to the right and u