ORGANS OF SENSATION. 492 distinguished into thoracic, supra-scapular, infra-scapular, and bra- chial. The latter are designated by the names of internal cutane-1 ous, external cutaneous, median, radial, ulnar, and circumflex. thohacic branches. 1751. Anterior Thoracic Branch. Furnished chiefly by the seventh cervical nerve, it issues from the anterior part of the plexus, descends behind the clavicle before the axillary artery, and divides into a pretty considerable number of filaments. Some of these, which are not always met with, form a kind of ring by turning from before backwards around the axillary artery, and ascend, posterior- ly to it, to unite a second time with the plexus towards the point where the eighth cervical nerve unites with the first dorsal. The others continue to descend upon the thorax, and are distributed among the fibres of the pectoralis major, and upon the inner surr face of the pectoralis minor. Frequently a small twig proceeds by itself from the cord which the last cervical and first dorsal nerves form, passes under the ax- illary artery, and is entirely distributed to the pectoralis minor. 1752. Posterior Thoracic Branch (Inferior external respiror- tory. Bell). It is detached from the upper part of the plexus, posteriorly, and arises by two twigs, of which, one comes from the fifth, the other from the sixth cervical nerve; sometimes also the seventh cervical nerve furnishes it with one. That of the fifth sends a filament to lose itself in the scalenus posticus and levator anguli scapuljE. Then, united into a single trunk, they pass behind the axillary vessels, and descend upon the sides of the thorax, adher- ing to the serratus magnus, in the lower third of which they are exhausted by a great number of ramifications, without having pre- viously given off any filaments. SUPRA-SCAPULAR BRANCH. 1753. Issuing from the upper and posterior part of the brachial plexus, and furnished especially by the fifth cervical nerve, it descends obliquely backwards toward the upper edge of the scapu- la, passes vmder the ligament which closes the coracoid notch (6o2), previously gives a filament to the subscapularis muscle, then obliquely traverses the outer regi6n of the fossa supra-spinata, and furnishes several filaments to the supra-spinatus muscle, un- der which it is situated. It then passes into the fossa infra- spinata, at the fore part of the spine of the scapula, towards the base of the acromion process, and divides into three or four twigs which descend and arc subdivided in the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles.