ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4«4 part of the brain ; it is only a few lines thick. Its upper surface is in part concealed by the hemispheres which project above it, forming a kind of oblong cavity, of which we have already spoken (1505). It is convex from before backwards, plain in the trans- verse direction: in its middle, following the coixrse of the median line, is a prominent longitudinal line, of a more compact tissue, which penetrates the whole thickness of the organ, and is com- monly called the Raphe. On each side of the raphe, which corresponds to the inferior edge of the falx cerebri, there is observ- ed a filament, which is also longitudinal, and which is separated from it by a small flexuous groove : this filament is the trace of the artery of the corpus callosum. Sometimes on the anterior part of the corpus callosum, these filaments, which are by some authors called the Lonr/itudinal Nerves of Lancisi, and which are always conver- gent, unite into a single line. More externally is a surface of great- er extent, and apparently smooth, but in which a closer inspection discovers a number of prominent lines, more or less transverse, more distinct posteriorly, and terminating at the raphe, near which they are inflected towards the lateral ventricles. These lines are named the Traiisverse Medullary Traces. 1540. The inferior surface of the corpus callosum is visible and free over a much greater extent than the upper. At the sides it contributes to form the upper wall of the lateral ventricles. In the middle it covers the fornix, with which it is directly continuous behind, and from which it is separated anteriorly and at the middle by the septum lucidum. 1541. At its anterior extremity, the corpus callosum is reflected from before backwards, and from above downwards, between the two hemispheres, where it forms a sort of rounded prominence. It ex- tends, and is prolonged as far as the base of the cerebrum, towards the fissura Sylvii, near the origin of the olfactory nerve, embracing the fore part of the corpora striata, and forming the anterior region of the roof of the lateral ventricles. In this course, it receives the converging fibres of the inferior convolutions of the anterior lobci Lastly, it terminates by a sort of white streak which loses itself in the fibrous tissue of the crura cerebri. 1542. At its posterior extremity^ the corpus callosum is also re- flected but from behind forwards. It there forms a white lamina which is prolonged into the lower part of the lateral ventricles, and invests in particular, on each side, a kind of convolution formed by the cineritious substance: this is what is called the Cor- nu Ammonis {Hippocampus major). This voluminous projection is curved upon itself, in such a manner as to present its concavity inwards and forwards, and its convexity outwards. Arising fronts the place where the corpus callosum bends, it first proceeds out^ wards, then forwards, becoming continually broader, and at leugtl^ terminates by a broad and thick bulbous extremity, turned inwards, and surmounted by two or three more or less prominent tuberclcsi"