553 OF THE lUlS. pared to a nervous ganglion* (18G4). The iris is as it were enchas- ed in its small circumference, which forms a slight projection be- fore it. Its great circumference is connected with the choroid lanembrane, and its posterior surface rests upon the ciliary processes. iThe ciliary circle is traversed by the long and anterior ciliary ar- >teries, and receives some ramifications from them. OF THE lEis.-f- 1962. This membrane is a kind of septum placed vertically in the anterior part of the ball of the eye, in the midst of the aqueous humour. Circular and flat, it separates the Anterior Chamber of the eye (1956) from the Posterior Chamber, which is limited be- aind by the crystalline lens, and yet allows a free communication 'oetween them, because it presents an aperture at its middle part ryhich is always free. This aperture of the iris is called the Pupil ''Pupillaand has its centre nearer the inner than the outer ;Bxtremity of the transverse diameter of the eye. During life, TTom the effect of the alternate contraction and expansion of the rris, this aperture is continually varying in its dimensions. Its imean diameter is about a line. Of the two chambers of the eye, the posterior is much narrower hhan the anterior ; but it very certainly exists, although the con- nrary has been asserted. It is not more than a fourth of a line in iJepth, whereas the other is a line and a half at least; and it is on- yy truly apparent toward the circumference of the crystalline lens, Ithe convexity of which gives it the form of a circular prism with 'ihree faces. 1963. The anterior surface of the iris is covered by the mem- brane of the aqueous humour, which however is only traced with "nuch difficulty. It is differently coloured in different subjects, rand presents two very distinct circular and concentric tints, an inner, near the pupil, and an outer; the former is narrower and deeper, the latter broader and less intensely coloured. Iri some cases, the colours of the iris are distributed in patches, which gives t a marbled appearance. On this surface there are observed many prominent and radiated :stri£E, more or less flexuous, which, commencing at the great cir- cumference of the iris, terminate at the pupil, where they bifurcate. Their number varies from seventy to eighty. They are much more distinct during life than after death. In their intervals there ire many nerves and vessels, as well as very minute viUosities. 1964. The posterior surface of the iris has received the name ^lUvea, on account of a very thick and adherent black varnish which covers it, and which, in the intervals of the ciliary processes, 1. * 7^''^.'''*''^ctions of Zinn and Wrisberg, often repeated by myself, seem ultoire- iier to disprove this idea. K. j j > b t So called from the variety of colours which its anterior surface presents.