GO7 OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STOMACH. : the two surfaces of the stomach above and behind. It corresponds : to the aorta, the great fissure and lobulus Spigelii of the Hver, and i extends from the one orifice to the other, without presenting either . dilatation or cul-de-sac, on which account its dirnensions are •smaller than that of the great curvature. But, like it also, it is I not immediately invested by the peritoneum ; for it sinks between I the two laminaj of the hepato-gastric omentum, and is coasted by I the coronary artery of the stomach. OF THE INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE STOMACH. 215i. It is of a reddish white colour, having a marbled appear- ; ance, constantly covered with a thick mucosity, and lined by the 1 mucous membrane. Its form corresponds perfectly to that which I the viscus presents at its exterior; only, there are observed upon i it numerous and irregular wrinkles, which disappear when the or- I gan is full. OF THE EXTREMITIES AND ORIFICES OF THE STOMACH. 2165. Of the Cardia {Cardiac, Left or (Esophageal Orifice). ' It separates the two curvatures on the left side, and is placed be- I neath the diaphragm, and above the large extremity of the sto- I mach, at the union of the two right thirds and the left third of that viscus. It is in it that the oesophagus terminates. It is surrounded 1 by a circle formed by the coronary artery and vein, and by the ex- tremities of the oesophageal cords of the pneumo-gastric nerves (1711-) It is also in relation with a part of the left lobe and lo- bulus Spigelii of the liver, and with the corresponding anterior side I of the vertebral column. 2156. Of the Pylorus* {Pyloric, right or intestinal orifice). It is situated in the epigastrium, lower and more anteriorly than the cardiac orifice. It terminates the stomach to the right, form- ing the summit of the cone represented by that viscus, and makes : it communicate with the duodenum. Placed in the direction of the two curves at once, it commences by a funnel-shaped expan- sion, and terminates abruptly by a circular contraction. It gene- rally ascends backwards and a little to the right, as far as the union ' of the two fissures of the liver. It corresponds above and before to the liver, below and behind, to the pancreas, posteriorly, di- : rectly to the right gastro-epiploic artery, and on the right side to t the neck of the gall-bladder. It is often coloured by the transuda- 1 tion of the bile through the walls of that reservoir, and is always " Ilt/Xn porta ; Ougof, cusios; tliat is to say, a porter.