01'" Tin: PLEURA. , essentially composed of prolongations and successive ramifications . of the bronchi, and pulmonary arteries and veins, which stick to-^ gether in all their divisions, and are sustained by a very fine cellu- ': lar tissue, so as to constitute a series of lobules which are covered : and united by the pleurae, and interspersed with nerves, vessels, and lymphatic ganglia. OF THE PLEUR.E.* 2218. The Pleicrce are two thin, diaphanous, perspirable mem- i branes, which hne the inside of the chest, and are reflected from 1 thence over both lungs. Like all the serous membranes, to • whose order they belong, their internal surface is always in con- I tact with itself, and they thus represent each a bag without aper- 1 ture. By their meeting together they form the mediastina, and 1 their course is precisely the same on either side. Proceeding from the sternum, the pleurae direct themselves out- ' wards, line the inner surface of the ribs, their cartilages and the I muscles which occupy their intervals, separated, however, from the I latter by the intercostal vessels and nerves, and by adipose cellular r tissue. They thus advance as far as the vertebral column, re- : fleeted inferiorly over the diaphragm, of which they cover the tho- . racic surface, and superiorly under the upper ribs, behind which t they form a kind of cul-de-sac for lodging the summits of the lungs. Towards the articulations of the ribs with the vertebrae, they J are applied upon the thoracic nervous ganglia (1903) and their I branches, and then direct themselves over the lateral parts of the I body of the vertebra. There, the two pleurae approach each other, but there remains 1 between them a narrow and irregularly triangular space, in which (are lodged the descending aorta, the oesophagus, the vena azygos, tthe thoracic duct, the lower part of the trachea, the coramence- iment of the bronchi, and a great number of lymphatic ganglia, the 1 whole immersed in a cellular tissue. This place is the Posteriw .Mediastinum, the direction of which is vertical and parallel to that (of the vertebral column. Anterior to this space, the pleurae, which are very close to each I other, do not yet come into contact, but pass to the sides of the pe- iricardium, cover it at first over a small extent, and are reflected over the posterior part of the pulmonary vessels and over the lungs themselves. They cover at first the convex surface of the latter, their summit and base, diving deeply into the interlobular fissures. From thence they return upon their plain surface, the 1 anterior part of the pulmonary vessels, and the other portion of • the sides of the pericardium, at the fore part of which they again »approach each other. They then gain the posterior surface of the * riAji/jKi of the (i recks, 2 s