699 OF THE PHRENIC ARTERIES. frary, it occurs in the region of the false ribs, it disperses itself in the muscles of the abdomen, where it anastomoses with ramifica- tions of the internal mammary, epigastric, and circumflex iliac ar- teries. 2304. The last intercostal artery is concealed at its origin by the corresponding crus of the diaphragm, which receives some twigs from it. After giving off its dorsal branch, it continues its course along the inferior edge of the rib which is above, and arriving at its middle part, divides into two or three branches. One of them passes transversely into the abdominal muscles ; the others descend vertically, between the two oblique muscles of the abdomen, as far as the iliac crest, where they anastomose with the lumbar arteries, or with the cu-cumflex iliac artery. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH AEISE FROM THE ABDOMIMAL AORTA. 2505. They are distinguished into anterior, lateral, and inferior. Branches given off anteriorly by the Abdominal Aorta. OF THE INFERIOR I'HUENIC ARTERIES. 2506. Of the Right Phrenic Artery. It generally comes off from the aorta by itself, sometimes along with the left. It also occasionally comes from the coeUac artery. In the first case, it has its origin immediately beneath the interlacing of the fleshy fibres which go from one crus of the diaphragm to that of the op- posite side. It immediately ascends a little outwards, along the free edge of the right crus of that muscle, to which it gives several twigs, as well as to the supra-renal capsule, the pancreas and the liver. It then divides into two branches. 2507. Anterior Branch. It gives off at its commencement a transverse twig, which unites before the oesophagus with a similar twig of the left phrenic artery. It then traverses the adhesion of the liver to the diaphragm, gains the neighbourhood of the vena cava inferior, sends several ramifications to the pericardium, through the diaphragm, and separates into a great number of se- condary branches which lose themselves in that muscle, communi- cating with the corresponding superior phrenic. Others pene- trate into the posterior part of the liver. One of them, which seems to be the continuation of the original trunk, turns over the central aponeurosis, and anastomoses with the left phrenic. 2508- External Branch. Directed transversely outwards, above the liver, behind the right lobe of the aponeurosis of the dia- phragm, it terminates in the digitations by which the diaphragm is attached to the ribs. It furnishes two or three twigs to the su- pra-renal capsule (superior capsular arteries), and, by those which are diffused in the muscle, it anastomoses with the other branch, and with the inferior intercostal and lumbar arteries.