620 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. ticiilation to the summit of the coccyx, where it opens externally. It is a little inclined from left to right at its commencement; but afterwards follows the median line of the body nearly in a verti- cal direction, accommodating itself to the curve of the sacrum, and thus describing a curve, the general concavity of which is anterior. Frequently also it presents lateral inflections more or less distinct. It is cylindrical in the greater part of its extent; but, near its in- terior extremity, commonly presents a more or less considerable expansion. Less voluminous than the ccecum and colon, it is yet susceptible of very great dilatation, and does not present at its surface either bulgings or muscular bands; only in the state of vacuity, it is marked with some irregular transverse wrinkles, which arise from the falling in of its walls. 2204. The rectum being immoveably fixed in its place, its rela- tions are not subject to variation, although they differ anteriorly in the different sexes. Thus in the male, it corresponds, inferiorly. and anteriorly, to the fundus of the bladder, the prostate gland, and vesiculfc seminales, while in the female, it is covered by the. vagina, with which it is connected by a very considerable vascular lace-work. To this union the name of Recto-vaginal Septum, is given. But anteriorly and superiorly, the rectum is covered by the peritoneum in both sexes, and is in contact with the uterus in the female, and the body of the bladder in the male. Frequently, one or two convolutions of the small intestine glide between it and these organs. Posteriorly, and in both sexes, the rectum lies upon the sacrum and coccyx, from which it is separated by the hypogastric vessels and nerves, contained in a fold of the peritoneum, broad above, where it is continuous with the sigmoid mesocolon, narrow below, and bearing the name of Meso-rectum. At its lowest part, it is in contact with the levator ani muscle. On its sides, this intes- tine is only connected with the adipose cellular tissue which occurs abundantly in the pelvis, and with the levatores ani. 2205. The outer surface of the rectum is smooth, polished, and white, being covered above by the peritoneum; it presents in its whole extent vertical and parallel striae, which are owing to the presence of longitudinal muscular fibres uniformly diffused over its whole circumference, so that it has a considerable resemblance to the oesophagus considered also with reference to its exterior. There are, moreover, observed upon it, the numerous anastomoses of the hjEmorrhoidal vessels, and some fatty appendages towards the base of the sacrum. 2206. The inner surface of the rectum is commonly smooth in its upper half, but, in the lower, there are observed some parallel longitudinal wrinkles, which arc thicker near the anus, and of variable length. These wrinkles, whose number varies fa-om four to ten or twelve, and which arc called the Columns of the Rectum, are formed by the mucous membrane and the layer of subjacent cellular tissue. Between these columns, there arc almost alwaym (5