ORGANS OF DIGESTION. flattened internally. The right lung is divided into three unequal lobes, by two oblique fissures ; the left presents only a single fis- sure, and consequently has but two lobes. Their outer surface, which is convex, especially behind, and nearly plain anteriorly, is free in its whole extent, and corresponds to the walls of the thorax, from which it is separated by the cos- tal layer of the pleurae. It is smooth and polished, and constant- ly bedewed with a serous fluid. On the left lung, it presents a fissure which descends obliquely from the posterior to the anterior edge, and divides the organ into two lobes, a superior and anterior, which is smaller, and a posterior and inferior, which is larger: this fissure nearly penetrates through the whole thickness of the organ. A similar fissure is observed on the right lung; but in ifc the upper lobe is divided into two portions by a secondary fissura running obliquely downwards and outwards, and consequently in a direction the reverse of the great fissure, and which varies much as to depth and extent. In the two lungs, the upper lobes, which are large above, terminate below in a point, while the contrary takes place in the lower lobes, which are always larger. In the right lung, the middle lobe is triangular, presenting its summit outwards, and its base inwards, and is smaller than the other two. The internal surface of the lungs, which is plain or slightly concave, to accommodate itself to the shape of the heart, cor- responds, posteriorly; to the mediastinum, and the vertebral column. About the middle of its height is seen the insertion of the bronchi and pulmonary vessels. Its two anterior thirds are contiguous to the pericardium and thymus gland. Their anterior edge is thin, sharp, especially below, oblique, sinuous, more or less uneven, directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and notched on the left side only, to receive the point of the heart. Their posterior edge is thick, rounded, nearly vertical, and lodged in a groove which the ribs form on the sides of the verte- bral column (103). Their base, which is slightly concave, rests upon the upper sur- face of the diaphragm (1280), and is inclined a little downwards, and outwards on each side. It is circumscribed by a sharp and sinuous edge, which is lodged between the ribs and the insertions of the diaphragm, and on which tliere occurs the end of the in- terlobular fissure. ' Lastly, their summit, which is narrow, obtuse, and a httle bulged, is situated at the level of the first rib, which it frequently sur- mounts a little. ORGANIZATION OF THE LUXGS. 2217. The tissue of the lungs is very complicated. It .'jeenis