ORGANS OF GENERATION. the cutaneous prolongation, ascends a little beyond the glans, and is reflected over the latter, forming behind its base a small cul-de- sac apphed against the corpus cavernosum. This cul-de-sac is in- terrupted, beneath the orifice of the urethra, by a fold, named the Frcenum p?'eputii, which, placed in the inferior groove of the glans, frequently ascends to the aperture of the urethra. The cutaneous layer of the prepuce is very fine and entirely des- titute of hairs. Its mucous layer, from being at first very palcj becomes of a rather intense red as it approaches the base of the glans. There it covers two or three rows of whitish, rounded se- baceous follicles, of the size of a mustard seed, more or less pro- minent, which furnish a thick, unctuous humour of the consist- ence of butter and of a very fetid smell, which collects between the glans and prepuce. The cellular tissue intervening between these two membraneous layers has the greatest resemblance to that of the scrotum. It is extremely loose, and allows the skin to slide upon the mucous mem- brane. It very readily permits the infiltration of serous fluid. OF THE CORPUS CAVERNOSUM. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2997- The Corpus Cavernosum almost of itself determines the dimensions of the penis, and forms about two-thirds of its volume. It embraces the urethra, and extends from the anterior and internal part of the sciatic tuberosities as far as the substance of the glans. Many authors describe two corpora cavernosa in the penis, but there only exists one, as MM. Sabatier, Chaussier and Roux have demonstrated. There are distinguished in it two roots or crura, an anterior extremity, and two surfaces. 2998. The Crura of the Corpus cavernosum are attached to the inner edge of the rami of the ossa ischii and pubis, and covered internally by the erectores penis muscles. About two inches in length they commence at the fore part of the sciatic tu- berosities by a very slender extremity, and unite before the lower part of the symphysis of the pubes. The triangular space which separates them from each other is filled by fat and by the urethra. 2999- The anterior eoctremity of the corpus cavernosum repre- sents a truncated cone, united to the base of the glans, and per- forated by several apertures for the passage of vessels. 3000. Its upper surface is marked with a longitudinal and shallow groove, in which creep the dorsal arteries and veins of the penis. At its backmost part, it gives attachment to the Suspen- sory Ligament of the Penis, a fibrous, triangular, transversely flat- tened bundle, which sometimes presents vestiges of musculair fibres, and is attached on the other hand to the lower part of the .symphysis of the pubes.