OP THE CEKVICAL NERVF.S. nerves presenting more or less numerous enlargements resembling ganglia. 1738. External descending branches. Tlies6 are four or five in number, sometimes only two, but always furnishing to the same parts an equal quantity of twigs. They arise principally from the fourth cervical nerve, and but slightly from the third. Their course is very short, and they divide almost directly, and with nu- merous variations, into a great number of twigs, which are distin- guished according to their position, into 1739. Sujyra-clavicular Tivigs. They descend along the la- teral part of the neck, under the platysma myoides, and divide in- to a great number of very long filaments, some of which pass be- fore the middle part of the clavicle and inferior extremity of the sterno-mastoideus, to be distributed upon the pectoralis major, in the integuments of the thorax and to the mammae, while the others, directing themselves more outwards and backwards, are placed between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, and ramify in the skin of the top of the shoulder, and outer upper part of the arm. 1740. Svpra-acromian Twigs. They proceed along the upper edge of the trapezius muscle, send to it some filaments which anasto- mose in its substance with those of the termination of the spinal accessory nerve (1719), then, on arriving at the acromion, subdi- vide, and cover the outer and back part of the deltoid muscle with a great quantity of ramifications. 1741. Sub-clavicular Twigs. They are deeply imbedded in cellular tissue, in the triangular space which exists between the clavicle and the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscles. Arrived beneath the clavicle, they distribute themselves to the sca- pular extremity of the omo-hyoideus muscle, and to the upper part of the subscapularis and serratus magnus, and lose themselves in the axilla. 1742. Deep Cervical Twigs. These descend backwards along with the spinal accessory nerve, with which they communicate more or less frequently, and are distributed to the trapezius, levator an- guli scapulas and rhomboideus muscles, as well as to the neigh- bouring cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia. 1743. Mastoid Branch. This is one of the two ascending branches of the cervical plexus. It ascends along the posterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, between the integuments and the splenius muscle, and on arriving at the mastoid process, divides into several filaments which are distributed to the integuments of the posterior and lateral part of the head, to the inner surface of the external ear, and to the occipitalis muscle. They anostomose with the auricular twig of the facial nerve (1678), and with the posterior branch of the third cervical nerve (1731). 1744. Auricular Branch. This is the second ascending branch 01 the plexu«, and is nearly twice the size of the mastoid branch, before which it is situated. When it arises from the plexus, it is