ORGANS OF SECRETION. OUGANIZATION OF THE Sl'LEEN. 2919. Serous Envelope. It is formed by the peritoneum, and invests the whole exterior of the spleen, with the sole exception of the bottom of the fissure, on the edges of which it is reflected to be continued into the lamina; of the membraneous folds which fix the spleen to the stomach and diaphragm. Thin, transparent, smooth at its outer surface, and adhering by the other, it is applied upon another envelope of a fibrous nature. 2920. Fibrous Envelope. It adheres intimately to the preced- ing by its outer surface, and by its inner sends a great number of delicate prolongations into the parenchyma of the organ. At the bottom of the fissure, it is in contact with adipose cellular tis- sue, and furnishes other more distinct prolongations which ac- company the vessels in the interior of the spleen, and whose num- ber is consequently indeterminate. It is of a grayish white colour, pretty thick, strong, elastic, scantily supplied with vessels, and destitute of nerves. It is composed of the elastic tissue (16. F. c). 2921. Blood-vessels. No organ has more blood-vessels, in pro- portion to its size than the spleen. Its principal artery, which is furnished by the coeliac trunk, is remarkable for its size, the thick- ness of its walls, its numerous windings, and the manner in which it divides in the fissvu-e. But it receives, moreover, some branches from the capsular, phrenic, first lumbar and spermatic arteries of the left side. Its veins are not larger than the arteries, and are especially remarkable for the thinness and extensibility of their walls. They have no internal valves, and form one of the principal roots of the vena portae. 2922. Nerves. They come from the solar plexus under the name of splenic plexus (1917)5 and also from the left pneumo-gas- tric nerve. 2293. Lymphatic Vessels. The lymphatics of the spleen we have already described (2824). 2924. Cellular Tissue. There occurs a rather thin layer around the splenic arteries and veins, and it may be followed pretty deeply into the substance of the spleen, but not between the se- condary divisions of the vessels, the interstices of which arc filled with serum. 2925. Granulations. I give this name to a certain number of soft, grayish, semi-transparent, and as it were gelatinous corpus- cles, of the size of a pin's head and sometimes almost impercepti- ble, which are disseminated irregularly in the tissue of the spleen. Their nature is entirely unknown. Malpighi considers them as small glands. 2926. Parenchyma of the Spleen. It is of very variable con- sistence, although in general soft and as it were spongy. Its co- lour is deeper than that of the. spleen at its exterior. It always contains a very great quantity of blood, which seems to be idcnti-