OF TPIE BONES OF THE CARPUS. 135 outer edge, forms an eminence for the attachment of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the abductor and opponens pol- licis muscles. The inner surf ace is inclined downward, and articu- lates with the OS trapezoides by a broad and concave space, and with the second metacarpal bone by another narrow and plain surface, situated beneath the preceding. OF THE OS TKAPEZOIDES. 466. The Trapezoides (os multangulum minus), is smaller than the trapezium, more extended from behind forwards than in any other direction, and thicker behind than before. Its upper surface, which is concave, smooth, narrow and quadrilateral, is articulated with the scaphoid bone; the lower is divided by a prominent line passing from before backwards, into two parts, of which the inner is broader and somewhat concave, and unites with the second metacarpal bone. The posterior surface is convex and rough, for the attachment of liga- ments ; the anterior is of a similar description, but is narrower. The outer is convex and articulates with the trapezium; the inner, which is narrower and concave anteriorly to be articulated to the os mag- num, receives the insertions of ligaments behind. OF THE OS MAGNUM. 467. The OS magnum (os capitatum), is the largest of the carpal bones. It is thick and cubical below, rounded and hemispherical above, and its height is greater than any of its other dimensions. Its upper surface, which is named its head, has the greatest part of its convexity turned backwards and outwards; it is supported by a contracted neck, in the form of a groove, and is received into a cavity presented by the scaphoid and semilunar bones together. Its infe- rior surface is divided into three portions, the external of which, inclined outwards, concave and smooth, is articulated with the se- cond metacarpal bone; while the middle portion, which is broader than the rest, horizontal, and turned a little obliquely upwards at its posterior part, rests upon the third metacarpal bone; and the inner, which is very small, plain, and also horizontal, is joined to the fourth. Its posterior surface is broad and convex below, a Uttle concave above, and gives attachment to ligaments, as does the anterior, which is narrower. The outer surface is plain, and is articulated to the trapezoides. The inner surface presents pos- teriorly and above, a larger concave space, which is connected with the unciform bone ; the remaining part is rovigh, and gives attach- ment to ligaments.