ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Branches wliicli the Facial Artery gives off under the Jaw. 2313. Inferior Palatine Branch. It is of very small size, and comes off from the facial artery a few lines above its origin. Some- times it even comes from the external carotid. It immediately ascends between the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles, furnislies them with some ramifications, applies itself against the la- teral and superior wall of the pharynx, arrives between the pillars of the velum palati, and separates into a great number of small twigs whicli are distributed to the pharynx, the corresponding ton- sil and Eustachian tube. Some of them ascend into the velum palati, and are distributed to its muscles and membranes, or anasto- mose with those of the superior palatine artery. 2314. Submental Branch. It is furnished by the facial artery near the base of the jaw, and is larger than the preceding. Direct- ed forwards, between the platysma myoides, digastricus and mylo- hyoideus, it runs along the attachment of the latter muscle, fur- nishes it with a great number of twigs, which pass through its sub- stance to anastomose with those of the sublingual artery, which is itself frequently a division of the submental. Near the median line it bifurcates : one of the twigs passes before the insertion of the digastricus muscle, and unites with that of the opposite side ; the other ascends upon the chin, and after giving twigs to the in- teguments, inosculates with the ramifications of the inferior dentar artery which emerge from the mental foramen. 2315. Besides these two branches, the facial artery furnishes, in its lower half, twigs to the muscles of the superior hyoid region, to the substance of the maxillary bone, to the submaxUlary gland, to the pterygoideus internus, to the mucous membrane of the mouth and the corresponding side of the tongue. Branches which the Facial Artery gives to the Face. 2316. External Branches. They are numerous, but small and of a variable disposition. They are distributed to the masseter, platysma-myoides and buccinator muscles, to the adipose cellular tissue and skin of the cheek, to Steno's duct, and the parotid gland. Some of them communicate with the twigs of the transversalis fa^ ciei and buccal artery. 2317. Internal Muscular Branches. They are distributed to the triangularis and quadratus muscles, and to the skin of the chin, and anastomose with the ramifications of the submental artery, and with those of the inferior dentar artery which issue by the mental foramen. 2318. Inferior Coro?tanj or Labial Branch. L,arger than the preceding branches, it arises from the facial artery at a considerable