349 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. to the formation of tlic voice in crying, singing, &c. By constant- ly pressing upon the abdominal viscera, it subjects them by its mo- tions of elevation and depression to a tossing which is favourable to their functions. It also contributes essentially, when it contracts ,-trongly, to vomiting, the excretion of the feces and urine, and the expulsion of the foetus. 1282. Before this and the four following muscles can be dissect- ted the abdomen must be opened and the viscera removed. To dissect the diaphragm, put a large block under the loins, and t then proceed to raise the peritoneum and cellular tissue covering i its under surface, beginning at the margin of the thorax and dis- : secting towards the central tendon; the crura are next to be dis- : sected and the interlacing of these fibres examined. Lastly, the ; structure and situation of the different apertures should be studied. OF THE aUADRATUS LUMBORUM. 1283. This is a flat, pretty thick, irregularly quadrilateral mus- cle, situated in the loins, upon the sides of the vertebral column, and in the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is attached below, by aponeurotic fibres, and over an extent of about an inch, to the mid- dle and posterior part of the iliac crest, as well as to the ilio-lumbar ligament, and by some transverse fibres, to the transverse process of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The fleshy fibres which come from the OS innominatum ascend to the last rib, and terminate in nearly the whole length of its inferior edge. Those which arise from the ligament proceed upwards and inwards, and terminate in four aponeurotic slips, continuous at their edges, and attached to the fore part of the base of the first four transverse processes of the loins. Frequently the aponeuroses at the commencement of the muscle, are kept down inferiorly by other fibres, arising from the fifth of these processes and directed transversely outwards. Frequently also, a distinct fleshy plane proceeds from the third or fourth of thera, ascends outwards, and loses itself in the rest of the muscle. 1284. The anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum is co- vered above by the diaphragm, and, in the rest of its extent, by the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transveralis abdominis, and by the psoas magnus : it corresponds to the kidney and colon by the intervention of other parts. Its posterior surface is separated from the sacro-spinalis by the middle lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis. 1285. This muscle inclines the loins to one side ; it lowers the last nb, and is subservient to expiration, being an antagonist of the scaleni muscles in this respect. It can also raise the haunch. 1286. The quadratus lumborum is dissected by removing the parts covering its anterior surface (1284).