ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 366 firmly united. This aponeurosis sends some fibres to tlic tendon of tlie latter muscle, which concur, with it, to form an.aperture tlirough which the crural artery passes. 1351. The anterior surface of the adductor longus is covered by the fascia lata, the sartorius, and the crural artery. The pos- terior covers the other two adductor muscles, and is firmly united to them below. Its outer edge is parallel to the pcctineus muscle; the inner is concealed by the gracilis, 1352. It brings the thigh toward that of the opposite side, bends it a little, and carries it outward by rotating it. When one stands upon a single foot, it keeps back the pelvis. OF THE ADDUCTOR BREVIS. •I - 1353. This muscle is placed behind the preceding, and is lesa voluminous than it; it is triangular, flattened from within out- wards in its upper third, and from before backwards in its two lower thirds, and rises, by short aponeuroses, from almost the whole space which separates the symphysis pubis from the obturator hole, whence it descends outwards and backwards, becoming broader and thinner, to be inserted, by a less developed aponeurosis than that of the preceding muscle, traversed by the perforating arteries, into the middle part of the linea aspera, for a space of about three inches, proceeding from the small trochanter. At this insertion, the ad- ductor brevis is incorporated with the adductor longus, adductor magnus, and the pectineus. 1354. This muscle is covered anteriorly by the preceding, and by the pectineus. Posteriorly, it is applied upon the adductor magnus. Internally, it is connected with the gracilis, and exter- nally with the tendon of the psoas magnus and iliacus internus, and with the obturator externus. . 1355. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. OF THE ADDUCTOR MAGNUS. * ■ 1356. This muscle is triangular, like the other adductors, but of much greater extent, filling nearly the whole inner and back part of the thigh. It arises, by a broad and thick tendon, which sends an aponeurosis behind its fleshy fibres, from the base of the tuberosity of the ischium, and by short aponeuroses froni the ra- mus which unites that eminence to the symphysis pubis. The fleshy fibres which arise from these different origins become longer in proportion as they are examined more internally. The upper are nearly transverse, and frequently seem to form a distinct mus- • Soemmering comprehends the three adductors under the name of Musculus tri. cepi femorit.