438 ORGANS OF SENSATION. cess, they have a triangular form ; in the rest of their course, their k section is elliptical. Their interior, which is everywhere smooth f and polished, presents none of the bridles of which we have made mention in speaking of the other sinuses. They receive some veins from the cerebellum, the posterior extremity of the cerebral hemi- spheres, the tentorium cerebelli, and the cavity of the tympanum. They also present in the second part of their course the orifices of the superior and inferior petrous sinuses, which carry the blood from all the other sinuses of the base of the skull. By the mastoid and posterior condyloid foramina, they communicate moreover with the occipital veins on the outside of the cranium. 1578. Coronary Sinus (Sinus Circularis.) It surrounds in a more or less regular manner the sella turcica and pituitary body, pass- ing behind the channel of the optic nerves and before or above the quadrilateral lamina of the sphenoid bone. It is very narrow in its whole course; it receives the small veins of these different parts and those of the neighbouring portion of the dura mater, and opens to the right and left into the cavernous sinuses. 1579. Cavernous Sinuses (Sinus Cavernosi.) These sinuses are much more complicated than all the rest. They commence beneath the anterior clinoid processes, behind the inner third of the sphenoidal fissure, proceed from thence horizontally backwards up- on the sides of the sella turcica, whence they descend into the place which separates the summit of the petrous process from the quadri- lateral plate of the sphenoid bone. There they terminate by emp- tying themselves into the superior and inferior petrous sinuses. Their breadth is considerable, and they are lodged in the lateral grooves of the body of the sphenoid bone, between two laminae of the dura mater. Of these two laminae, by an arrangement already partly described (1560), the inner immediately lines the bony sur- face, and is prolonged into the sphenoidal fissure; while the other, which is much thicker, forms the outer wall of the sinus, which con- tains in its substance the nerves of the third and fourth pairs and the ophthalmic branch of the fifth, and closes the two outer thirds of the sphenoidal fissure, becoming confounded above with the ex- tremities of the tentorium cerebelli (1568), which close the sinus in that direction. Altogether internally, the latter lamina is united with the first. The cavity of the cavernous sinuses generally pre- sents a great number of soft reddish filaments, interlaced and as it were reticulated. The intimate nature of this kind of cellular structure is very difficult to be determined. It appears to me to be evidently formed at once by nervous filaments of the superior cervical and cavernous ganglions, the fibres of the dura mater, and the folds of the internal membrane of the veins. There are more- over met with, in the interior of these same sinuses, the internal carotid artery and the nerve of the sixth pair, i)laccd against their inner wall, and immersed in the blood, from which they arc only separated by the delicate internal membrane of the veins which | envelopes them.