ARTICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOU EXTREMITIES. 199 divergent. It is attached, on the one liand, to the posterior part of the inner extremity of the davicle, and on the other, to the pos- terior and superior part of the sternum, on tlie edges of the arti- cuhir cavity. Its anterior surface covers the two synovial mem- branes, and a part of the circumference of the fibro-cartilagc. The posterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus and stcrno- thyroideus muscles. 642. Inter-clav/icular Ligament. {Ligamentum interclavi- ciilare). This name is given to a very distinct fasciculus, placed transversely above the upper extremity of the sternum, between the heads of the two clavicles. Its appearance varies in different indi- viduals, it being sometimes thick, and sometimes thin, at one time simple, at another composed of several separate bundles. It is al- ways flat; its fibres, which are parallel, are longer above than be- low, frequently separated by small apertures, and always more com- pact and closer in the middle, than at the extremities; they are also curved, and their concavity, which is not very decided, is di- rected upwards. These fibres arise from the upper part of the ster- nal extremities of the clavicles, and are partly incorporated with the tendons of the anterior portions of the sterno-mastoid muscles. Frequently this ligament has only slight membraneous adhesions to the sternum, while, at other times it is strongly fixed to its perio- steum and ligaments. Its posterior surface corresponds to the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles; the anterior to the integuments. Its upper edge forms with the sternum a notch, through which vessels pass. 643. Costo-clavicular Ligament, {Ligamentum rhomboides). This ligament does not form an intimate part of the articulation of which we are treating, it being in no shape attached to the ster- num. It is of a rhomboidal form, short, flat, and very strong, with dense, compact, oblique fibres, and longer externally than in- ternally ; it proceeds from the inner and upper part of the car- tilage of the first rib, ascending obliquely backwards and outwards, to be inserted into a prominence, which the lower surface of the clavicle presents internally. One of, its surfaces is directed for- wards and upwards, and is covered in a great part by the subcla- vius muscle; the other, which faces backwards and downwards, touches the subclavian vein. At its inner part it corresponds to the articulation. 644. Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage, (jCartilago inter-articu- laris). It is a nearly circular plate, fitted to the articular surfaces of the sternum and clavicle, between which it lies; it is thicker at Its circumference than in"the centre, which is sometimes perforated. The circumference is united to the ligaments described above, es- pecially the anterior and posterior. Above and behind, where it is very much thicker, it is fixed to the head of the clavicle; inferiorly and internally where it is very thin, it is attached to the union of the sternum with the cartilage of the first rib, partly confound- ing itself with the perichondrium of the latter. The structure of