559 VITREOUS BODY AND HYALOID MEMBRANE. 1979. It is not yet dctcrrained whether the lens has blood-ves- iels or not. It appears probable that the arterial ramifications are imited to its capsule. It is also pretty certain that it receives no lerves. 1980. The Membrane or Capsule of the lens has a form similar 0 that of the body which it contains. It represents a sort of sac fithout aperture, which sends no prolongation into its interior, and 5 itself lodged in a reduplication of the hyaloid membrane, from i?hich it may very easily be separated at the edges ; but, anteriorly md at the middle, these two membranes are entirely confounded. 3y its inner surface it has no adhesion to the lens itself. At the place where the anterior and posterior portions of this lapsule unite, there is perceived a series of transverse slits which occupy its whole circumference. The capsvde of the lens is much thicker and denser than the vyaloid membrane. It even seems, according to Haller's observa- iion, to have some similarity of structure to the cornea ; a disposi- don which is especially manifest in its anterior half, for in the pos- eerior it is much thinner. By the action of caloric, it hardens and jssumes a milky tint, which also happens when it is immersed in ccids. On being dried in the open air, it becomes yellowish, tts intimate texture is little known. It receives posteriorly a nmall branch of the central artery of the retina; and anteriorly some aamifications of the vessels of the ciliary processes. Its veins and leerves are unknown. 1981. The crystalline lens is fixed and kept in its place by very uvmierous delicate, fascicular, transparent filaments, of a peculiar aature, which pass from the intervals of the cUiary processes to bhe circumference of the capsule of the lens. 1982. Between the lens and its membrane occurs the Liquor Morgagni, a kind of peculiar transparent, slightly viscous fluid, ex- |5t!ting in small quantity, and escaping the moment the capsule is Ippened.* OF THE VITREOUS BODY. 1983. The Vitreous Body is a soft, perfectly transparent, tre- mulous mass, occupying the three posterior fourths of the cavity of ^he ball of the eye. It has a spherical form, but presents a very •fistinct depression at its fore part for lodging the crystalline lens. ' -t 18 invested in nearly its whole extent by the retina, with which t contracts no adhesion, but anteriorly it is connected with the -■est of the eye through the intermedium of the ciliary processes by neans of the structure mentioned at 1969. Its translucency and impidity experience no alteration from the advance of age ; but in he foetus it has a reddish tint. " Many anatomists consider tliis liquor as o, post-mortem appearance. 3