ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORACIC EXTREMITIES. 215 .the head of each metacarpal bone, behind the preceding, in a smali special depression, and descend obliquely forward, to be at- tached to the two sides of the upper extremity of the phalanx. They are thick, broader above than below, rounded, and composed •of longitudinal, parallel and very numerous fibres. Externally the collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers run along them, and in- ternally they are covered by the synovial membrane. 703. Synovial Membrane. Proceeding from a small space at . the fore part of the cartilaginous surface of the metacarpal bones, it directs itself behind the anterior ligament, and on the inside of the lateral liagments, whence it gains the articular surface of the plialanx; after this it forms a very loose bag, free in a great part of its extent beneath the tendon of the extensor muscle, and lastly co- vers the head of the metacarpal bone. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PHALANGES. 704. The articulations of the phalanges with each other are per- fect angular ginglymi, and are all very much alike in respect to their articular surfaces and ligaments. The thumb has only one, while each of the other fingers has two. The condyles of the lower extremity of the first and second phalanges are incrusted with cartilage, as well as the corresponding cavities of the upper extre- mity of the second and third. Each of these articulations has an anterior ligament, two lateral ligaments, and a synovial capsule. The anterior ligameM, which is of the same form as that of the preceding articulation, is attached to the two sides of the extremity of the phalanx above, and receives anteriorly a great number of dense and glistening fibres, which proceed from the sheath of the flexor tendons ; it is less marked in the first, than in the last pha- langeal articulation. The lateral ligaments are precisely similar to those of the articulation of the metacarpus and first phalanx. Lastly, the synovial membrane also resembles that of the above mentioned articulation ; it is intimately connected posteriorly with the tendon of the extensor digitorum in the Last articulation. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE INFERIOR EXTRE- MITIES. HIP JOINT. 795. This articulation is an enarthrosis, resulting from the re- ception of the head of the femur, (494) into the cotyloid cavity of the OS innominatum (391). The two surfaces are covered by a very distinct diarthrodial cartilage; that of the head of the femur • IS much thinner at its circumference than in the middle, where it IS interrupted by a depression which gives attachment to the round ligament. The cartilage of the cotyloid cavity which pre- -scnts the reverse arrangement as to thickness, is deficient at its