OF THE SUPERIOR EXTUEMITIES IN GENERAL. 141 cond, excepting that of the thumb, which is immediately connected with'the first. They are developed by two points of ossification, one for the body, the other for tlie upper extremity. OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES CONSIDERED IN GENERAL, WITH REFERENCE TO THE BONES OF WHICH THEY ARE COMPOSED. 482. The superior extremities, whose length is such that, in the standing posture, the tips of the fingers reach the middle of the thigh, are composed each of thirty-two bones, the weight of which is sustained by the connexions, more or less remote, of the shoul- der with the head, the neck, and the vertebral column. In order to point out the different regions into which they are divided for the purpose of facilitating their examination, they are supposed hanging by the side of the body, with the palm of the hand turned forwards. The following pecuUarities are then observed in each of the portions of which they consist:— 483. The Shoulder is applied upon the upper part of the tho- rax, in such a manner as to increase its transverse extent on the outside in a great degree. It is longer than broad, and this length is more marked in the female than the male, on account of the greater development of the mammae, which induces an enlargement of the chest at its upper part. With respect to its height, it is the scapula alone that can serve to furnish an estimate of it, the clavicle being of no importance in this respect. The shoulder is in general inclined backwards, and the glenoid cavity of the scapula turned directly outwards. The two bones of which it is formed constitute a bent and horizontal lever, which is so disposed, that the summit of the angle is above the glenoid ca- vity, and its base directed inwards and backwards. 484. The Arm (ho-achium), or portion of the thoracic extremity • extended between the shoulder and elbow, is formed by a single bone already described, and scarcely presents any thing for our ex- . amination in its general conformation. It is protected at its upper part, by the projection formed by the acromion and coracoid pro- ' cess. The pulley which is observed at its lower part is oblique, so . as to be directed forwards toward the inner edge of the bone, and backwards toward its outer side. The inner tuberosity of this ex- 1 tremity corresponds to the head of the humerus, and the outer tu- 1 berosity to the large tuberosities of the upper extremity. 485. The Fore-arm {anti-brachium), which is situated between t the arm and hand, is flattened from before backwards, curved a 1 little forwards, and of nearly uniform breadth in its whole length. The two bones of which it is composed are so arranged, that the : thickest part of the one corresponds to the thinnest part of the ' other, so that, in the different parts of the extent of the fore-arm, t the sum of their diameters remains almost imiformly the same. 1 Both arc rounded on the side, where they arc farthest from each