420 ORGANS OF SENSATION. white substance, more or less pulpy, half a hne tliick, wliich seema excavated for the purpose of contaming the cineritious matter, which is so much the more abundant the younger the subject is. This cineritious matter may be divided into three portions, a mid- dle and two lateral. The first is transverse, thicker and broader in the neck, thinner and narrower in the back, and again more volu- minous, but not broader, in the lumbar region. The two lateral portions are curved in such a manner as to be opposed by their convexity, while their concavity is directed outwards ; their pos- terior edge is prolonged as far as the posterior collateral grooves, (1518), the anterior is rounder and thicker. These two portions are very distinct in the upper part of the neck, they then diminish as far as the lower part of the dorsal region, where they are manifest- ly enlarged. 1528. The olivary eminences (1516) are enveloped, like the rest of the spinal marrow, with a white external layer. If it be remov- ed, a firm and dense oblong nucleus of cineritious matter is found, which may be separated from the neighbouring parts, and is surrounded in its whole circumference, by a yellowish flexuuos line. On making a transverse section of the olivary eminences in the plane of their thickness, there is obtained in the centre of each, a kind of dendritic figure (corpus dentatum), terminated by a foot-stalk at the anterior median groove, and formed by these nuclei of gray matter. 1529. Several anatomists assert their having found in the centre of the spinal marrow a central canal, which descends more or less, and is the continuation of the calamus scriptorius. M. Chaussier considers its existence as owing to the means employed for demonstrating it. But recently, Drs. Gall and Spurzheim have met with a canal in each of the lateral halves of the spinal marrow, especially in new born infants. These canals commence in the lumbar region, and are continued into the cerebral protu- berance, under the tubercula quadrigemina, into the crura cerebri, and as far as the optic thalami, in the interior of which they form a cavity, which, on being blown into, is large enough to hold an almond. I have traced them in two subjects with much success. STKUCTUKE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 1530. All the bundles of medullary fibres which, by their ex- pansion, are intended to form the brain, are placed at the upper part of the spinal marrow, {Medulla oblongata). They are espe- cially the pyramidal and olivary bodies. With respect to the for- mer, there is a very remarkable peculiarity to be observed, which is, that they do not contribute to form the brain on the same side as that on which they originate; thus, the inferior fibres of the py- ramidal body of the right side, for example, unite in small bands, whose number varies from two to five, at above fifteen lines be.