658 OKGANiS OF CIllCULATlON. OF THK TEMI'OllAL AIITKHY. (Art. Temporalis). 2331. Not so large as the internal maxillary artery, from which it separates opposite the neck of the condyle of the jaw, and fol- lowing the original direction of the external carotid, this artery ascends at first a little obliquely outwards between the ramus of the jaw, the auditory canal, and the parotid gland which covers it as far as the zygomatic arch. But above the latter it glides in a tortuous manner under the anterior and superior muscles of the ear, and becomes subcutaneous. Arrived at the middle of the temporal region, it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. 2332. Anterior Branches. The temporal artery gives off a cer- tain number of branches which direct themselves forwards towards the masseter and the articulation of the lower jaw. Among these there is to be distinguished the Transiierse Artery of the face, which arises from the temporal immediately after its origin, varies much in size, passes over the neck of the condyle of the jaw, gives off' a twig which is distributed in the masseter, and there anasto- moses with a division of the internal maxillary artery, crosses the direction of that muscle, proceeding above Steno's duct, and ter- minates opposite its anterior edge, ramifying on that duct, in the parotid gland, in tlie two zygomatici and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, as well as in the integuments. Several of its twigs anas- tomose in the substance of the cheek with those of the facial, buccal, and infra-orbitar arteries. 2333. Posterior Branches. They are of considerable size and vary in their number. They are called the Anterior Auricular Arteries, and are distributed to the external auditory canal and to the auricle. 2334. Internal Twig or Middle Temporal Artery. It comes from the temporal artery immediately above, and sometimes under the zygomatic arch. It almost immediately perforates the aponeu- rosis of the temporal muscle, into which it passes, and where it separates into a great number of ramifications, of which several are seen to communicate with the deep temporal arteries. 2335. Of the two branches by which the temporal artery termi-, nates, the anterior ascends in a serpentine manner towards the forehead, and subdivides into a great number of twigs which run in all directions, and diffuse themselves in the frontalis and orbi- pularis palpebrarum muscles, and in the integuments. Of these twigs, some which are transverse, anastomose with the frontal and superciliary arteries, while the others bend towards the top of the head, where they meet those of the opposite side. The posterior branch ascends obliquely over the parietal and oc- cipital bones, describes there a great number of sinuosities, and