GENERAL CONFORMATION OF THE BLADDER. 799 -of much fat, to the inferior posterior wall of the bladder, between ;the muscular and mucous membranes of which it passes, contract- ing a little. It proceeds thus between them for the space of about •an inch, directing itself inwards and forwards, and, on arriving at the posterior angles of the trigonal space of the bladder, terminates [there by a narrow oblique oriHce. In this course, the ureter corresponds from above downwards, iiand posteriorly, to the psoas magnus muscle, the common iliac ves- sels, whose direction it crosses, and the hypogastric vessels. An- 'teriorly, it is at first covered by the peritoneum and the spermatic ;artery; then, in the excavation of the pelvis, it is crossed in the male 'by the vas deferens. It is moreover, to be observed, that the ureter of the right side is placed externally of the vena cava in- tferior, to which it is parallel. 2944. The calyces, pelvis, and ureter appear to have the same corganization. Their walls are composed of two membranes. The oiiter of these membranes is thick, of an opaque white co- I lour, covered externally of the pelvis and ureter by a prolongation cof the fibrous capsule of the kidney. The inner is mucous, very thin, white, and semi-transparent. It i is prolonged from the calyces over the mammillas, and, perhaps, k even introduces itself into the uriniferous rubes. OF THE BLADDER. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2945. The Bladder {Vesica tirinaria) is a musculo-membrane- ' ous reservoir, lodged, in the adult, in the excavation of the pelvis, i immediately behind the pubes, and destined to retain for some time I the urine, which is afterwards to be ejected from it.* •' The form and dimensions of the bladder vary in a remarkable I manner in the different sexes and ages. In the adult male, it is ' conical; in children it is cylindrical, much elongated from below upwards, and protruding above the upper strait of the pelvis. In the adult female, especially if .she has born several children, it is ■ rounded, and is broader than long. Tlie bladder also presents some variations in its dimensions, which appear to depend upon our mode of living in society, and ' the contracted habit of retaining the urine for a greater or less time. Its capacity, however, is generally greater in the female than in the male. The direction of the bladder is never absolutely vertical; but it is slightly inclined from above downwards and from before back- " Sometimes, but very nirely, tlic Madder is entirely wanting, and then tlie ureters open into tlie rectum or viiginii. Soinewliat more frequently, its anterior wall is wanting, and the posterior forms externally a .soft and sjiongy tumour at tlu» lower part of the abdomen.