ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. loc, cit. vol. V p. 53. G44 OF THE ARTERIES* Or Vessels which carry the Blood from the Heart to all parts of the Body. GENERAL OBSEEVATIONS. 2275. The Arteries are vessels whose disposition is like that of a highly ramified tree, of which the common trunk, formed by the aorta, commences at the left ventricle of the heart, and of which the twigs end at the circumference of the body and organs. They are found in all parts of the animal economy in general, with the exception of the hairs, the epidermis, and a few other organs.-f- [ From the aorta therefore arise secondary trunks, branches, twigs and ramuscules in great number. It is observed however, that for each of the arteries which it furnishes, the number of divisions does not exceed twenty or twenty-five, which is much less than has sometimes been asserted. . In dividing, the branches of the arteries form very variable angles. Thus the superior intercostal arteries leave the aorta at an obtuse angle, the lumbar arteries at a right angle, the spermatic at an acute angle. At the place of each division, in the interior of the vessel, is a prominence formed by the internal membrane, which is circular when the division takes place at a right angle, semi-cir- cular and more distinct when the angle is acute. 2276. The arteries communicate frequently together by true an- astomoses, so that the blood can pass from the one to the other. These anastomoses take place between equal trunks, or between a more voluminous trunk and a small twig. In the former case, the anastomosis forms an acute angle, as when the two vertebral arte- ries unite to form the basilar. Or a transverse branch unites two separate trunks, as in the anterior cerebral arteries; or, lastly, the two trunks inosculate forming an arch, as is seen in the mesenteric arteries. The more the divisions of the arteries begin to remove from the • 'AjTwjiai of the Greeks; from anj, aer rn^em ferre, because the ancients siip- piosed them to contain air. f Prffiter pulmones, organon illud quam maxime sanguinosiim, in aliquot mcni- branis, ut: in membrana nariuih pitOitaria, in choroidea oculi, in externa lingiiffi, in vasculosa cerebri, in interna canalis intestinorum membrana; porro in glandulffl thyreoidcEE substantia, in substantia cinerea cerebri, in bene, renibus, in glandulis salivalibus, in glandulis muciparis, sebaceis atque absorbentibus numerosissima; in- veniuntur. Permultas arterias mnsculi habent. Pauca; et parvre artcriw niedullsc cerebri atque spinali contigenmt; pauciores car- tilaginibus ac tendinibns, longe pauciores ossibiis. Nullas adhuc arterias in epidcrmidc ejusque productionibus, ut in unguibus atque crinibus ; in substantiii dentium vitrca, in membrana cerebri aracbnoidea, in niom- hrana amnios, in substantia funiculi umbilicalis gelatinosa deprelicndcrunt. Sucvifi-