ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE SUPUA-SCAPULAR ARTERY. {Art. scapularis superior seu transversalis humeri.) 2424. Less voluminous than the preceduig, it more commonly comes off from the inferior thyroid than from the subclavian itself; sometimes it has a trunk common to it and the transverse cer- vical or internal mammary artery. In all cases it proceeds in a tortuous manner from within outwards, behind the clavicle, cover- ed by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, platysma-myoides and trape- zius muscles, and arrives at the upper edge of the scapula, follow- ing exactly the course of the supra-scapular nerve (1753). On arriving near the supra-spinatus muscle, it passes above the cora- coid ligament, dives between the supra-spinatus muscle and the fossa of the same name, directs itself outwards under the arch form- ed by the clavicle and acromion process united, winds over the edge of the spine of the scapula, and enters into the fossa infra-spinata, between the bone and the infra-spinatus muscle. 2425. In the first part of its course this artery furnishes several twigs to the subclavius and platysma myoides muscles, to the clavicle, the cellular tissue and lymphatic ganglia of the lower part of the neck. Before passing over the coracoid ligament, it sends to the supra-spinatus muscle a pretty large superficial branch, which gives twigs to the trapezius muscle and acromio-clavicular articulation : they anastomose with the transverse cervical artery. Lastly, in the fossa infra-spinata the supra-scapular artery anasto- moses with the sub-scapular which comes from the axillary artery, and divides into two principal branches, of which one follows the anterior edge of the scapula and belongs to the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, while the other proceeds transversely back- wards under the spine of the scapula, and throws a multitude of twigs into the infra-spinatus muscle. OF THE DEEP CEUVICAL ARTERY. 2426. The deep cervical artery, (Art. cervicalis profunda) arises from the posterior and deep part of the sub-clavian, exter- nally of the inferior thyroid, behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and immediately before the transverse processes. It has been seen to come from the inferior thyroid or vertebral artery, or to have a common trunk with the superior intercostal. Immediately after its origin, it ascends obliquely outwards, passes between the two last transverse processes of the neck, after giving small twigs to the scaleni, longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles, directs itself backwards, vipwards and inwards, between the com- plexus and semi-spinalis colli muscles becomes vertical, and ends by anastomosing, towards the head, with the vertebral and occipi-