OF THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. GC7 : the eye, the envelopes of tlie optic nerve, places itself in its centre^ and accompanies it into the eye, where it penetrates sometimes singly, sometimes divided into two or three brandies. It then ■ sends to the internal lamina of the retina (1972) a multitude of I twigs which there form a very apparent net-work, and which may I be followed as far as the ciliary body, without its being ascertained whether they pass flirther. One of these twigs penetrates into the vitreous body, furnishes it with some ramifications of excessive tenuity, and seems to arrive at -the posterior part of the capsule I of the crystalline lens. 2365. Pretty frequently other two or three small arteries are obr served, which arise from the ophthalmic, and like the central artery pass into the envelopes of the optic nerve, but without reaching so far as the retina. Branches which arise from the Ophthalmic Artery during its pas- sage above the Optic Nerve. 2366. The Supra-orhitar or Superciliary Artery. It some- times comes from the lachrymal artery. It proceeds from behind forwards, along the upper wall of the orbit, above the levator paU pebrae superioris and attollens oculum muscles, under the perios- teum, at the inner side of the frontal nerve (1651). Arrived at the base of the orbit, after furnishing some minute ramifications to the periosteum and the two muscles above mentioned, it issues from that cavity by the superciliary notch, giving off in its passage a small twig to the diploe of the frontal bone. It then divides in- to two branches, of which the inttrnal, which is larger, ascend.^ upon the forehead, behind the corrugator supercilii and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, and separates almost at once into a great number of twigs, which are distributed in a divergent manner ia these muscles and in the frontalis, anastomosing with those of the frontal and superficial temporal arteries (2335). The other or ex- ternal branch follows nearly the same course ; but its twigs do not extend so far, and communicate externally with those of the la-, chrymal artery. 2367- The Posterior or short Ciliary Arteries {Art. ciliares bre- ves). These arc very numerous, sometimes amounting to thirty or forty. Almost all of them come from the ophthalmic artery ; but the lachrymal, posterior ethmoidal, and supra-orbitar or inferior muscular arteries almost always furnish some. They are extreme- ly flexuous, and are found immersed in the soft fat which surrounds, the optic nerve, upon which they are more or less accurately ap- plied. They give off in general some very slender twigs which dive into the groove embracing that nerve at its entrance in- to the eye. These twigs anastomose with each other, and there form a very