MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 381 wards the os cuboidcs. It tlxen turns over the side of that bone, penetrates into the deep groove which it presents, and is there bound down by another ligamentous sheath, which also contains a distinct synovial membrane. It then directs itself inwards and for- wards, and is inserted upon the lower and outer part of the poste- - Tior extremity of the first metatarsal bone. A sesamoid bone is often met with in its substance, to the outside of the os cuboides, . and another is occasionally observed behind the malleolus externus, or along the calcaneum. 1412. In the leg, the outer surface of the peroneus longus is covered by the tibial aponeurosis; the iriiier is applied upon the t fibula, and the extensor digitorum communis and peroneus brevis; t the posterior corresponds above to the soleus, and is united below to the flexor longus poUicis. The various relations of this tendon have already been sufficiently noticed. 1413. It extends the foot on the leg, turning its point outwards, i aiid raising its outer edge. It also acts upon the leg, which it ex- I tends upon the foot. OF THE PERONEUS BllEVIS. 1414. It has the same form as the preceding muscle, but is not • so long. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the lower half of 1 the outer surface of the fibula, and from two aponeurotic partitions, ' which separate it anteriorly from the peroneus tertius and ex- I tensor communis digitorum, and posteriorly from the flexor lon- gus digitorum. It descends a little obliquely outwards, and, at : the lower part of the leg, degenerates into a tendon which had I commenced very high upon its outer side. Behind the malleolus I externus, the tendon enters a groove, common to it and the pero- ; neus longus (1411), in passing through which it becomes broader. ' On emerging, it contracts, becomes rounded, leaves the tendon of I the peroneus longus, passes above it over the outer surface of the ' calcaneum, where it is separated from it by a fibrous partition, be- < cotnes broad a second time, and is inserted at the upper part of the ' posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, frequently sending a prolongation to the extensor tendon of the little toe. 1415. Its outer surface is covered by the peroneus longus and I tibial aponeurosis. The inner covers the fibula, and corresponds I to the extensor digitorum communis and peroneus tertius, and at I Its lowest part to the flexor longus poUicis. The synovial mem- ' ^rane which envelopes its tendon and that of the preceding muscle 1 behind the malleolus, is prolonged into the particular sheath which i contains it alone opposite the calcaneum, so that it seems bifur- v Gated at its lower part. 1416. It extends the leg and foot mutually upon each other, I raising the outer edge of the latter a little. 1417. To expose the two peronei muscles, continue the last dis- * section to the outside of the leg and foot, separate the peroneus iongus trom the peroneus brevis, and trace the tendon of the latter