725 OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. tendons of the second and third adductors, which receive twigs from it, and gains tlie back part of the femur, where it divides into two branches, one of which ascends in the substance of the gluta2us maximus, while the other is distributed in the long portion of the biceps, the vastus externus, in the semi-membranosus and upon the sciatic nerve. This artery anastomoses with the internal cir- cumflex, ischiatic and middle perforating arteries. 2627. Middle Perforating Artery. It comes off lower than the preceding, and is inferior to it in size. It also passes through the aponeurosis of the long and great adductor muscles, and on ar- riving at the back part of the thigh, divides into ascending twigs, which go towards the great trochanter in the glutaeus maximus and vastus externus muscles, anastomosing with those of the preceding artery, and into descending branches which go to the biceps, semi- tendinosus, semi-membranosus and vastus internus muscles, and to the sciatic nerve. The latter communicates with those of the in- ferior perforating artery. One of them {ramus nutritius ossisfe- moris) penetrates into the femur by the nutritious canal which is observed upon the linea aspera of that bone, (493). 2628. Inferior Perforating Artery. This is the smallest of the three. It comes off from the deep femoral artery much lower than the others, and passes through the aponeurosis of the adductor magnus nearly at the same time as the trunk which furnishes it. Its distribution behind the femur is the same as that of the other two. OF THE POPLITEAL ARTEKY. (Arteria Poplitcea). 2629. It is the direct continuation of the superficial femoral artery, which changes its name after perforating the adductor magnus. It descends a Uttle obhquely from within outwards into the ham, and extends from the commencement of the lower thu-d of the thigh to the end of the upper fourth of the leg, where it terminates by di- viding. 2630. Its posterior side is covered in the greater part of its ex- tent by the sciatic nerve and pophteal vein. The semi-membra- nosus muscle is moreover applied upon it above; farther down, a great quantity of fat separates it from the aponeurosis and integu- ments, and still lower it is protected by the gastrocnemii, plantaris gracilis and soleus muscles. 2631. Its anterior side is separated above from the femur by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue; in the middle, it rests upon the posterior surface of the knee-joint; and below, upon the pophteus and tibialis posticus muscles. 2632. Its outer side corresponds to the biceps muscle, wliich