811 OF THE rUOSTATE GLAND. partitions; but it in reality represents a flexuous canal, termina- ting above in a cul-de-sac, and into which there open laterally simple or compound appendages, to the number of six, eight, ten, fifteen, or even twenty. These appendages give rise to the promi- nences observed at the external surface. They are very close to each other, and connected together by a dense cellular tissue. They may be separated by careful dissection, especially if the parts have been previously macerated. 2985. The vesiculae seminales are commonly filled with a thick, yellowish, opaque fluid, of a peculiar smell, and of an aspect very different from that of the semen which is ejaculated during life. 2986. The walls of the vesiculas seminales are evidently formed of two membranes. The eooternal, which is rather dense and whitish, appears to have some resemblance to the substance form- ing the vas deferens, only it is thinner. The internal^ which belongs to the order of mucous membranes, is very fine and almost white. It is a little wrinkled, and similar to that which lines the gall-bladder. The vesicvdae seminales are entirely destitute of muscular fibres. OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 2987- The Prostate Gland (Prostata*) is a body of consider- able size, formed by an assemblage of mucous foUicles, and sur- rounding the commencement of the urethra in the male. It has the form of a truncated cone, flattened from above downwards, and superficially notched at its base, which is directed backwards. Its axis is nearly horizontal, but incUned a little forwards and down- wards. It is much thicker behind, and on the sides than before. Its upper surface is immediately covered by the inferior ligament of the bladder. The lower surface rests upon the rectum, to which it adheres by a pretty dense cellular tissue. It is smooth and plain. Each of its surfaces is traversed longitudinally by a superficial groove. Its sides are rounded and correspond to the levatores ani muscles. Its base embraces the neck of the bladder, and forms around it a rather remarkable prominence, especially on the sides. Its szwnwi^ terminates upon the membraneous portion of the ure- thra by gradually becoming thinner. 2988. The prostate gland is traversed longitudinally, and nearer its upper than its under surface, by a canal, wider in the middle than at its extremities, which lodges the commencement of the ure- thra, or surrounds at least the three upper fourths of the circum- ference of that canal. In its lower part, it is also traversed by the two ejaculatory ducts, which are lodged in a conical canal of which the summit is directed forwards. 2989. The prostate gland is of a grayish white colour. Its tis- * '^f'l I'iforc; itTYifu, tu slaw/.