445 OF THE CEREBRAL AND SPINAL NERVES. ■ In its outer edge, each ligamcntum clentatum presents succcs- vely twenty or twenty-two clenticulations, from which the liga- aent has received its name, whose points more or less elon- nated, are attached to the sheath which the dura mater forms ■vround the spinal marrow, in the interval that occurs between each air of cervical and dorsal nerves. The base of each of these den- aculations is triangular; but their form and size vary much. The iipper are shorter and transverse ; the lower become gradually aore oblique and longer. The first is attached, by a very sharp lilament, to the edge of the great occipital hole, between the hy- Doglossal nerve and the vertebral artery. The last is fixed oppo- itite the twelfth dorsal, or first lumbar vertebra, and separates the ilorsal from the lumbar nerves. By its inner edge, this ligament adheres to the proper mem- 'Drane of the spinal marrow, by means of a dense cellular tissue, without any continuity of substance taking place. 1597- It must not be confounded with the arachnoid membrane srhich covers it, and from which it may be separated by insuffla- ion. Its intimate structure is entirely unknown. Its use appears CO be to keep down the spinal marrow in its canal. Of the Cerebral and Spinal Nerves. GENERAL CONST DERATIONS. 1598. These Nerves are white, generally cylindrical cords, r commonly communicating with each other in various parts of their course, arising, symmetrically and in pairs, from the brain and spinal marrow, and formed of a more or less considerable number 0 of interlaced filaments connected together by cellular tissue. They vary in their direction, being parallel, perpendicular, or ' inclined to the axis of the body; but, whatever this direction may he, they almost always proceed in a direct line, in place of being tortuous like most of the arteries. As they recede from the place ' of their origin, the nerves divide into branches and twigs which terminate by filaments, which again subdivide into very delicate fibrils. The separation of the branches and twigs takes place at angles more or less acute with relation to the trunk, and is indi- cated long before by a groove which results from a mere juxta-po- - sition of the branch against the trunk. In general, the nervous trunks traverse the great cellular inter- stices of the trunk and extremities. Most commonly they are cy- hndncal; but sometimes also flat, as is observed in the sciatic nerve. Their length varies much ; but it is greater in the extremi- ties than m the trunk or upon the head. They may be isolated m their passage, or accompanied by blood-vessels.