ORGANS OF SENSATION. 50^2 OK THE EPIDERMIS Oil CUTICLE. 2095. This is a dense impermeable envelope, entirely superficial, and separated from the dermis by the rote mucosum, to the third layer of which it adheres by its inner surface. The epidermis is of variable thickness, and in some places appears formed of several superimposed layers. It is it that presents all the wrinkles and furrows of which we have spoken in describing the outer surface of the skin. It is thin and transparent, and is not altered by exposure to the air. Its tissue is firm and close; but its intimate structure is yet little known. No nerves or blood vessels are found in it. 2096. The arteries of the skin come by numerous and short ra- mifications from several trunks concealed in the substance of the muscles or in their interstices. They first divide and anastomose in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and then penetrate into the dermis, whence issue, moreover, the radicles of the veins of the skin, which are less known than its arteries, and probably also lymphatic vessels. All these vessels, therefore, form above the dermis a layer of which we have spoken, and in which their tenui- ty is so great that several may be injured at once by the point of a needle. 2097' The nerves of the skin are very numerous and very slen- der, and cannot be traced beyond the dermis. It is not known how they terminate, although they are supposed to constitute the papillae. 2098. In the whole extent of the skin, excepting on the palms and soles, there occur a multitude of sebaceous follicles which pour upon its surface an unctuous fluid which keeps up its flexibility, and protects it against the action of external bodies. Their ex- istence is always connected with that of the hairs, so that the places which present most of the latter, such as the skull, the pubes, the axillse, &c. are also those in which there occurs the greatest quan- tity of those follicles, of which some are isolated, more voluminous, utricular, and have a very short excretory duct, while the others are much smaller, and agglomerated into a crown in the capsule in which the root of each hair is contained. OF THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 2099. The Hairs, (pili, crines,) are filaments of a horny struc- ture connected by one extremity to the skin, and free at the other; the attached extremity is fixed into a follicular depression of the skin called the bidb, which seems to be formed by a reflection of the dermis and rete mucosum. From the bottom of the cavity of the bulb there projects a conical vascular papilla from which the hair grows.