OF THli rEUlTONEUM. 837 comprised between the spleen and the stomach, arc called Gas fro- splenic Omenta by many authors. 2° In the middle, the peritoneum leaves the diaphragm before its oesophageal aperture, arrives upon the anterior surface of tlie stomach, passes before the gastro-epiploic vessels, descends to near the most decUvous part of the abdomen, and is reflected from be- low upwards as far as the convex edge of the arch of the colon, thus contributing to the formation of the great omentum. It then invests the inferior surface of the arch of the colon, glides beneath the pancreas and duodenum, forming the inferior lamina of the transverse mesocolon (2194), and is finally continued into one of the lamina; of the mesentery. 3°. To the right, the peritoneum covers a less extent of the in- ferior surface of the diaphragm. Arrived upon the posterior edge of the liver, it is reflected upon that organ, forming a fold which has been inappropriately named its Coronary Ligament {ligamentum hepatis coronarium). It covers its whole upper surface, at the middle of which it gives rise to another triangular fold which is its Suspensory Ligament (ligamentum hepatis suspensoriiim). This fold divides the upper surface of the liver into two unequal parts (2894), corresponds on the other hand to the diaphragm, and is continued inferiorly into another fold, which is named the Faloo of the Umbilical Vein. This fold in fact contains that vein in its substance, and descends anteriorly and to the left as far as the umbilicus. The right lamina of the so-called suspensory ligament of the liver is then reflected under the concave surface of the great lobe, unites with the rest of the peritoneum along its sharp edge, covers the gall-bladder, and at length forms altogether on the right, a small fold which gains the diaphragm, and which is called the Right Lateral or triangular Ligament of the Liver {ligamentum hepatis triangulare deoctrum.) This same lamina leaves the gall- bladder posteriorly, and slips before the duodenum to proceed over the colon. The left lamina is in like manner reflected under the inferior surface of the left lobe, unites upon its sharp edge with that which covers the upper surface of the Uver, and bends, near its posterior edge, to form the Left lateral or Triangular Ligament of the Liver {ligamentum hepatis triangulare sinistrum) and the anterior lami- na of the ILepato-Gastric omentum, and to expand over the ante- rior surface of the stomach. 3077- Posterior Cavity of the Omenta. Immediately under : the neck of the gall-bladder there is observed a triangular aperture, 1 the Foramen or Hiatus of Winslow, into which the finger may I easily be made to penetrate. Through this aperture there is seen I to dive superiorly the lamina of the peritoneum which has formed the anterior lamina of the hepato-gastric omentum, which is thus applied upon itself,containing in its duplicaturc the hepatic andpylo-