ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 344 above than below, extended vertically, like a fleshy band, on each side of the linea alba, from the pubes to the base of the thorax, and contained in a kind of fibrous sheath, formed by the two prin- cipal laminae of the abdominal aponeurosis. The anterior lamina is, as we have said, composed of two laminae above, and three below. The posterior, which is entirely wanting below, has only two. The rectus muscle arises by two tendons which are attached to the symphysis of the pubes, and rarely to the bone itself. One of these, the internal, is slender, and interlaced with that of the op- posite side in the median line ; the other, which is external, broader and stronger, comes from the outer part of the upper edge of the symphysis. Both ascend converging, and soon unite to give rise to the fleshy fibres. These ascend vertically towards the thorax, but are interrupted from space to space, in their passage, by apo- neurotic intersections, whose number varies from three to five. There are always more of them above than below the umbilicus; when there are three, one is situated at the level of that cicatrix, and the other two above it; if there happen to be four, one of them is below it; lastly, if there are five, three are above and two be- neath it. They are all transverse, and have a zig-zag direction; but their breadth and length are not the same. They frequently intersect the muscle only in a half or third of its breadth; their anterior part is much more distinct than the posterior, and adheres intimately to the lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis which forms the anterior wall of the sheath ; they are also frequently oblique. We have still to remark that the muscular fibres which arise from an inferior intersection, do not all terminate in that which is placed immediately above, but that a great number of them pass behind it without being interrupted, and on to a more remote intersection. There results, however, from such an ar- rangement, that these fibres are evidently much shorter than the muscle itself. Arrived at the base of the thorax, the rectus abdominis divides into three portions, the inner of which is pretty thick, but not verv broad, and is attached to the costo-xiphoid ligament, and to the'lower and fore part of the cartilage of the seventh rib, near the sternum ; the middle, which is broader and thinner, is attached to the lower edge and anterior surface of the cartilage of the sixth rib, near its middle ; and the outer, which is broader and thinner, terminates at the lower edge of the cartilage of the fifth, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres. 1266. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered above by the aponeurosis of the pectorahs major, and in the rest of its ex- tent, by the anterior lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, except- ino- at its lowest part, where the pyramidalis muscle is commonly met with. The posterior surface covers the cartilages of the last three true ribs, part of those of the first two false, the ensiform cartilage, the posterior lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, the