383 MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. aponeuroses give rise to its fleshy fibres, whicli are very numerous. The first, wluch is broad and thin, is attached to the upper ex- tremity of the fibuhi, and to its outer edge; it descends very low upon the outer edge of the anterior surface of the muscle. The second is a kind of fibrous arch, whose convexity is directed down- wards, imder wliich the popliteal vessels pass ; it unites the pre- ceding aponeurosis to the third, which is attached to the posterior oblique hne of the tibia, and the middle third of the inner edge of that bone, and is expanded over the inner and fore-part of the muscle. From these origins, the fleshy fibres descend in a con- 'verging manner, and terminate successively at the fore-part of a broad and thin aponeurosis which extends over their posterior sur- face, almost from their upper extremity, and sends into their inte- 'rior a sort of fibrous partition or raphe, into which they are insert- ed, like the barbs of a feather into the shaft. Inferiorly, this apo- ;neurosis unites with that of the gastrocnemius, and contributes to •form the tendo Achillis. 1421. The posterior surface of the soleus is covered by the gas- ,^trocnemius and plantaris, and by the aponeurosis of the leg. Its anterior surface covers the peroneus longus, popliteus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and tibialis posticus mus- cles, a portion of the posterior surface of the fibula, and the popli- teal, posterior tibial, and fibular vessels. 1422. Of the Tendo Achillis. It results from the union of the jinferior aponeuroses of the gastrocnemius and soleus which we have just described. Narrower and more rounded in the middle than at its extremities, broader at its upper than its lower part, formed of very distinct fibres, it descends vertically behind the lower part of the leg, where it forms a remarkable prominence. It "slides over the upper half of the posterior surface of the calcaneum, by means of a cartilaginous surface and a synovial capsule, and is inserted into its lower half. It is covered posteriorly by the skin; anteriorly, it is separated from the muscles of the posterior and deep region of the leg by a great quantity of adipose cellular tis- sue, and receives fleshy fibres from the soleus until near the cal- caneum. 1423. The gastrocnemius and soleus extend the foot upon the 'eg, and the leg upon the foot. The gastrocnemius by itself can bend the leg and thigh on each other. OF THE PLANTARIS. 1424. This muscle, which is wanting in some subjects, is long, tnin, narrow, and extremely slender. It arises by a small tendon, behmd the outer condyle of the femur, from the posterior ligament ot the knee joint, and from the tendon of the outer head of the gas- trocnemius. It forms behind the joint a small rounded and coni-' cal tleshy bundle, which descends obliquely inwards, and, after