151 OF THE FIBULA. loped by itself. The tibia is articulated to the femur, the fibula aud the astragalus. OF THE FIBULA.* 512. Form. The Fibula (Perone), is nearly of equal length with the tibia, but much more slender, and occupies the outer part of the le"-. It has a slightly oblique direction, which is such that its lower^extremity is more forward than the upper. The follow- ing parts are observed upon it. 513. The Body, which is slender, rounded at the upper part, prismatic and triangular in the rest of its extent, is twisted upon itself, and slightly curved outwards. Its inner surface looks a httle backwards at its upper part, and is afterwards twisted so as to become anterior. It is divided by a longitudinal ridge, to which the interosseous ligament is attached, into two portions, of which the anterior and smaller gives attachment to the extensor longus pollicis pedis, extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius; while the posterior, which is larger, and a little concave in the longitudinal direction, represents a sort of groove which gives at- tachment to the tibialis posticus. Its oztter surface, which looks a little forward at its upper part, and backwards at the lower, gives attachment above to the peroneus longus, and in the middle to the peroneus brevis, which almost entirely cover it. The poste- rior surface looks a little outwards above, and is afterwards turned to be directed inwards at its lower part; superiorly, it gives at- tachment to the soleus, and below to the flexor longus pollicis pedis. In its middle part is seen the orifice of the canal for the vessels of the bone, which is directed forwards and downwards. At its lower part, this surface, which has become broader, presents a triangular, convex, rough space, which is articulated with the tibia. 514. The surfaces of the fibula are separated by three edges. The anterior (crista), is directed outwards at its lower part, and gives attachment internally to the extensor communis digitorum pedis and peroneus tertius, and externally receives the insertions of the lateral peronei. At the lower part it bifurcates, and the branches of this bifurcation are separated by a triangular surface, somewhat concave, and covered by the integuments. The internal edge is turned forwards at its lower part, and is much more pro- minent in the middle than at its extremities. Above, it gives at- tachment to the tibialis posticus, and flexor longus pollicis pedis, and at the lower part receives the insertion of the interosseous li- gament. The eMernal ed<je is turned backwards at its lower part, and gives attachment posteriorly to the soleus and flexor longus pollicis pedis, and anteriorly to the two lateral peronei. * llitoiti of the Greeks ; J'ibiila among; tho Lalliis.