MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 337 fifth, as well as from the ligaments by which they are connected. Its upper eivtremittj is traversed by an artery ; the lower terminates in a tendon which is attached to the inner side of the ring finger. Its posterior surface is covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the fourth to the fifth metacarpal bone, by the extensor tendons of the little finger, and by the skin ; the anterior is concealed above, beneath the interosseous muscle of the little finger, and appears 'below, between it and the second palmar interosseous muscle. It carries the ring finger inwards. 1245. From their connexions with the tendons of the extensors of the fingers, the interossei and lumbricales may contribute to ex- tend the fingers. 1246. To dissect the muscles of the hand, make a longitudinal incision through the skin along the middle of the palm, another 'transverse one at the roots of the fingers and incisions along the fore part of the fingers. Dissect off the skin from the palm, so as to expose the palmar aponeurosis and the palmaris brevis muscle, and from the fore parts of the fingers, to show the sheaths of the tendons. Raise the thin aponeurosis from the external palmar re- gion to show the muscles of the thumb, the superficial of which must be raised to expose the deep. Raise the thin aponeurosis from the internal palmar region to show the muscles of the little finger ; and, from the middle palmar region, the strong part of the palmar aponeurosis to expose the tendons of the flexors of the fingers, the course of which along the fore part of the fingers may be seen, by slitting up the sheaths, when the synovial membranes of these parts will also be exposed. The tendons of the flexor su- blimis are to be removed to show the origins of the lumbricales, which are to be traced round the radial sides of the fingers to the extensor tendons. The tendons of the flexor profundus being re- moved, the internal interossei may be examined ; and the extensor tendons being removed from the back of the hand, the external interossei wiU be brought into view. MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1247. The Abdomen is an oblong cavity, of variable size, con- vex before, especially below, concave behind and on the sides, and situated under the thorax. It contains the principal viscera of the body, and is divided into several regions, which we shall make known as we proceed.* Of the Abdominal Aponeurosis. 1248. Along the middle part of the abdomen, from the ensiform " Sec the articlt; Pcvitonoum in a subsequeiit jmrt. Z