OltGANS OF CIRCULATION. 1". Posteriorly, it is applied upon the anterior surface of the ra- dius, from which it is separated above by fat and by the supinator brevis, in the middle by the pronator teres, farther down by the flexor longus pollicis, and still lower by the pronator quadratus muscle, below which it rests immediately upon the bone. 2°. Anteriorly, it is covered by the radial vein, in its whole ex- tent, and in its two upper thirds by much adipose tissue, and by the supinator radii longus ; but below, it becomes subcutaneous, and its pulsations may be very distinctly felt through the skin dur- ing life. 3°. Internally, it is applied against the pronator teres above, the flexor carpi radialis at the middle, and flexor digitorum subli- piis below. 4°. Externally, it corresponds only to the supinator longus and the radial nerve. 2459- The branches which the radial artery gives to the fore- arm are distinguished into anterior, posterior, external, and in- ternal. 24()0. Jnterior Branches. Their number is as uncertain as their disposition. They pass through the aponeurosis and arc dis- tributed to the integuments of the fore-arm. 2461. Posterior Branches. They are very slender, and de- scend obliquely towards the flexor longus pollicis and pronator quadratus, in which they are lost. 24C2. External Branches. The largest of these branches se- parates from the radial artery at its commencement. It is named the Radial fiecurrent (Art. recurrens radialis). Directing it- self at first transversely towards the supinator longus, it pre- sently bends to ascend between it, the supinator brevis and bra- chialis internus muscles, to the neighbourhood of the olecranon. It thus forms a kind of arch, ftom the convexity of which pro- ,ceed several twigs, which descend between the two supinator muscles, to which they are distributed, as well as to the two exten- sores carpi radiales, the extensor digitorum communis, and the ex- tensor muscles of the thumb. In terminating, this artery divides into several other twigs, which anastomose with those of the deep humeral artery (2451). The other external branches are numerous, but their occurrence is not always reguLar. They descend obliquely in the supinator longus and extensores carpi radiales, as well as in tlie extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 2463. Internal Branches. Very numerous, but irregular, they are distributed in the muscles of the anterior and superficial layer of the fore-arm. Two of them, however, are constant, and arise from the radial ar.tery, close to the wrist. The first, Avhich is very small and deep, directs itself transversely inwards, along the infe- rior edge of the pronator quadratus muscle, and anastomoses with similar branch of the \ilnar artery, forming an arch wliich fur-