ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 036 • ■ Inferiorly, the orifice of the vena cava inferior is furnished with a membraneous fold, which advances into the cavity of the auricle, and is named the Eustachian Valve. The breadth of this valve varies much in the adult, but can never entirely close the aper- ture of the vein; its dimensions arc more considerable in children, and especially in foetuses, and it becomes gradually obliterated with age, so as to be very indistinct in old persons. Its position is nearly vertical, and its form semilunar. Its posterior surface, which is directed backwards, to the right and upwards, corresponds to the cavity of the vena cava inferior. The anterior^ which has an opposite direction, corresponds to the cavity of the auricle. Its free edye, which looks upwards and backjvards, is sometimes reti- cular ; it is more or less concave, but is always very thin. Its riyht eivtremitij is connected with the circumference of the vena cava inferior, while the left is prolonged upon the inner wall of the auricle, and is continuous Avith the anterior pillar of the fossa ova- lis, of which we shall presently speak. Under the Eustachian valve, and above the entrance of the ven- tricle, is the common aperture of the coronary veins, which is also furnished with a semilunar valve, broad enough to close it entirely, the free edge of which is directed downwards. 2°. Its anterior side presents at its upper part the small cavity of the appendage, remarkable for the prominences which are formed in it by a multitude of fleshy columns {rnusculi pectinati) crossing each other, and inferiorly, the wide aperture by which the two right cavities of the heart communicate {right auriculo-veiifri- cidar opening). This aperture is circular when the heart is full, elliptical when it is empty, and is margined with a kind of white zone, of which we shall subsequently speak. 3°. The outer side presents nothing remarkable but a great number of irregular prominences, formed by muscular bundles which leave between them spaces of various dimensions, and of which the principal are in general directed from behind forwards. These prominences are commonly less numerous than in the ap- pendage. 4°. Its inner side is formed by a septum which separates the right auricle from the left. In the adult it presents under its mid- dle part a depression ( fossa ovalis s. vestigium foraminis ovalis), which is more distinct above than below, where it disappears in- sensibly, becoming continuous with the vena cava inferior. The surface of this depression is sometimes smooth, sometimes uneven and reticulated. It does not appear to have any fixed limit be- hind ; but, anteriorly, it presents a kind of very thick semilunar valve, of which the inferior extremity is continuous with the Eus- tachian valve. By its inner surface, this valve corresponds to another valve which projects in the left auricle, and forms of itself the bottom of the fossa ovalis.* * On pushing from beliind forwarils the hitudle of a .scalpel between these two valres, a passage is, for the most part, easily obtained from the right auricle into the left.