ORGANS OF CmCULATION. est Branches which the Axillary Artery gives off opposite the Thorax:. 2433. The Acromial Thoracic Artery. It is of considerable size, and comes off from the fore part of the axillary artery, oppo- site the upper edge of the pectoralis minor, and frequently by a trunk common to it and the superior thoracic. Concealed at its commencement by the pectoralis major, it descends obliquely outwards towards the deltoid muscle, throwing some small twigs into the subclavius, serratus magnus and first intercostal muscle. Arrived at the narrow interval which separates the deltoid from the pectoralis major, it divides into two branches, a superior and an inferior. The Superior Branch ascends in a tortuous manner in the in- terval which we have just mentioned, and arrives at the clavicle. There it gives off a transverse twig which is distributed to the skin of the top of the shoulder and upon the deltoid muscle. It then dives under that muscle, and still divides into two twigs, one of which follows the edge of the clavicle to its acromial articula- tion, while the other, which is larger, forms a net-work upon the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint. It anastomoses with the su- perior scapular artery. The Inferior Branch follows the course of the cephahc vein be- tween the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles (1072), and divides into two twigs which are distributed to each of them, anastomosing with the thoracic and circumflex arteries. 2434. The Superior Thoracic Artery. Most commonly it arises along with the acromial. Its size is variable. It descends obliquely forwards between the pectoralis major and pectoralis mi- nor muscles, to which it is distributed by a great number of twigs, some of which run superficially as far as the mamma. It anasto- moses with the intercostal arteries and the internal mammary. In some subjects there are two or three superior thoracic arteries. 2435. The Long Thoracic or External Mammary Artery. It sometimes arises along with the superior; but more commonly it comes off from the axillary a little lower than it. It descends at first almost vertically, and only a little from behind forwards on the lateral part of the thorax, between the lower edge of the pecto- ralis major, which covers it and the serratus magnus on which it lies. It then bends inwards, becomes subcutaneous, and divides in- to several branches which embrace the mamma. This artery gives numerous twigs to the pectoralis major, serra- tus magnus, and intercostales muscles, the lymphatic ganglia of the axilla, the integuments and mamma. It anastomoses with the intercostal, internal mammary and superior thoracic arteries.