567 OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. ;l<argcr than that of the aperture whicli it is destined to close, whence ; there results, that it is capable of experiencing very distinct alter- ! natc motions of relaxation and tension. For the same reason, it is ^commonly found convex in one or other direction, but more com- I monly internally, where it always presents, moreover, a partial ele- wation produced by the presence of the handle of the maUeuSi IThis elevation produces a corresponding depression on the side next lithe auditory canal. • >iThe circumference of the membrana tympani is, as it were, en- i chased in the groove with which the internal extremity of this canal ids marked. 2006*. The membrana tympani is thin, transparent, dry, fibrous, lidestitute of blood-vessels in the ordinary state. It is not perforat- i«d by any aperture, as some anatomists have alleged, and permits lino direct communication between the tympanum and the meatus aauditorius externus. It promptly hardens under the action of heat, and is not putres^ ocible. 2007- Above and below, the outer wall of the tympanum is fformed by two small uneven osseous svirfaces. 2008. Internal Wall. It is but slightly inclined backwards, and ids more distant from the external wall above than below. The ob- jijects which are remarked in it are the following. 1. The Fenestra Ovalis, an aperture of an oval form, which t'forms a communication between the tympanum and the vestibule. Uts greatest diameter is horizontal, the other vertical; Its upper oedge is curved in the form of a half ellipse; the lower is nearly ^straight. On the side next the vestibule, it is contracted by a very small flat rim, which occupies its circumference. The fenestra ovalis is closed by the base of the stapes, which not I'being altogether so large, is embraced by a delicate membrane, 1 which unites it in a moveable manner to the circumference of the aperture. Above the fenestra ovalis, there is remarked a bony eminence, > elongated backwards and downwards, which indicates the course of ; the. aqueduct of Fallopius at this point (180). 2. The Promontory (Promontorium). This is another pretty 'i broad tubercular eminence, of a variable form, which limits the fenes- utra ovalis below. This prominence is formed by the outer side of the vestibule, and by the corresponding scala of the cochlea. It is ' bounded behind by an irregular depression. Anteriorly, it corre- ! sponds to the extremity of a bony lamina, which separates the Eus- tachian tube from the inner muscle of the malleus. 3. The Fenestra Rotunda. Placed beneath and a little behind '! the promontory, this is of smaller dimensions than the fenestra • ovalis, and forms a communication between the inner scala of the ' cochlea and the tympanum. It is situated at the bottom of a ca- vity, or kind of oblique, irregularly funnel-shaped canal, which with- draws It in a great measure from the view on the side next the tympanum. It is not round, as its name would imply, but of a