OF THE TEETH. 15 at the mental hole. From the angle formed by its reflection there arise two small subordinate canals, one inferior, the other superior, which lose themselves in the cellular tissue of the jaw * It is lined in its whole extent by a plate of compact tissue, which is especially appiirent near its orifices, for in the middle part it is so perforated with holes as to appear cellular; of these holes, some which are laro-er penetrate into the alveoli so as to perforate their summit; the"others transmit vessels into the areolar tissue of the bone which is very abundant. Sometimes the partition, which separates the canal from the alveoli, happens to be wanting, in which case, the canal is exposed when the teeth are taken out. The walls of the alveoh and their partitions are very spongy. It ought also to be remarked, that the dentar canal is nearer the uiner surface of the jaw in the two posterior thirds of its course, and approaches the outer surface in the remaining third. 255. Development and Articulations. The lower jaw-bone originates by two centres of ossification, which unite at the sym- physis of the chin. In very young foetuses, there is observed moreover, a bony plate which forms the lower edge of the bone, and a separate nucleus for the coronoid process. It is articulated to the temporal bones by the condyles, and to the sixteen lower teeth. OF THE TEETH. 256. The Teeth, {Denies ; Obovng), are small bones extremely hard and compact, implanted in the alveoli of both jaws, which, in their mode of connexion and formation, present a certain analogy to horns, and thus differ in many respects from the other bones of the body. The teeth, in fact, are exposed in a great part of their sur- face to the contact of the air, while the other bones of the body are completely shielded from it. Their number varies at '^the different periods of life, while that of the other bones, in general, is always the same. The other bones continue without being replaced until death ; when death is the effect of old age, the teeth, on the con- trary, fall out before it happens, and even then, they are not the same that existed during childhood. Their colour is commonly of the purest white ; their hardness is even greater than that of the petrous process of the temporal bone; they have no periosteum; lastly, their mode of development and nutrition is peculiar to themselves, and they are formed of two different substances, and not merely of two tissues of the same nature. 257. The teeth have in general the form of a very irregular co- noid, of which the base is directed toward the cavity of the mouth, while the apex, which is single or divided, and always perforated, corresponds to the bottom of the alveoli. " Kx Jaiickii Scnlcnlia, Diss. ii. ยง 12. Vid. Soemm. Dc Corp. Hum. Fah. torn. i.