311 MUSCLES OF THE ARM. \ ithoiit, and fixed to the middle part of the inner surface and edge ftlic humerus, between the brachialis internus and triceps. It is mited to the latter muscle. 1132. The coraco-brachialis is generally, though not always, traversed at its middle part by the external cutaneous nerve. Its antenor surface is covered by the deltoid, pectoralis major, and biceps. The posterior is applied upon the subscapularis muscle, the united tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, the axil- lary artery, the external cutaneous and median nerves, and the brachial artery. 1133. Bursa Mucosa. There is a bursa mucosa between the fibrous capsule of the shoulder joint, and the place of union of the short portion of the biceps and ccwaco-brachialis. 1134. It carries the arm forwards and inwards, and raises the humerus a little. When the latter bone is fixed, it turns the scapula by separating its" lower angle from the chest. '< OF THK BICEPS FLEXOll CUBITI. 1135. This muscle is situated on the fore and inner part of the arm. It is long, much broader and thicker at its middle part than at the extremities, and is divided above into two portions. The outer is longer, and arises from the upper part of the edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a very long, slender, flattened ten- don, continuous with the glenoid ligament (657). This tendon turns over the head of the humerus, becoming broader, crosses the arti- culation obliquely inwards, and advances to the interval between the two tuberosities, surrounded by a sheath which is furnished by the synovial capsule (658). It then becomes rounded, contracts, and enters the bicipital groove, still accompanied by the synovial membrane, and kept down by a prolongation of the fibrous cap- sule ; emerging from this groove, it continues to descend verti- fially, expands, and gives rise to fleshy fibres. The second or in- ner portion, which is shorter, is attached to the summit of the cora- coid process, along with the coraco-brachialis muscle, as we have already said (1131). It descends a little outwards, approaching the other, and becomes fleshy much sooner than it. 1136. The two fleshy bundles of the muscle are fusiform, and longer covered by the tendinous fibres externally than internal- ly ; they approach each other as they descend, soon come into con- tact, unite by a very thin cellular line, and are at length intimately mcoriiorated toward the lower third of the arm, sometimes higher and sometimes lower. The bundle which results from this junc- tion continues to descend, diminishing in size, and near the elbow jomt is converted into a tendon, which makes its appearance a little sooner on the outside than internally ; at first broad and thin, it IS in a great measure concealed by the fleshy fibres. When fairly emerged from them, it becomes narrower and rounded, turns «bh<iucly outwards, and furnishes by its inner edge a pretty broad