ORGANIZATION OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 613 BtBults from this that its general direction is mclined from above downwards and from left to right. Its length is great, being about four or Hve times the total length of the body. Many anatomists have divided it into two portions, although they have failed to as- sign fixed and distinct hmits to each of them. Of these two por- tions, the upper is named Jejunum, on account of its being com- monly found empty ; the other is called Ileum. The jejunum oc- cupies the two upper fifths of the small intestine, and the ileum the rest of its extent. It is easy enough to see that such a division is arbitrary and has no sufficient foundation. 2179. The small intestine has a much smaller calibre than that of the other parts of the digestive canal; it is wider above than be- low. Its whole outer surface is perfectly smooth, excepting on its posterior edge, where it is destitute of peritoneum and lodged be- tween the two laminae of the mesentery. It is seldom that it pre- sents fatty appendages, as are observed on the large intestines. Its inner surface has the same appearance as the duodenum (2169). There are seen upon it numerous viUosities, disposed in the form pf more or less prominent fringes, and extremely large valvulae conniventes. But the latter are more numerous the nearer to the duodenum the intestine is, and diminish progressively towards the the coecum. OKGANIZATION OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 2180. Serous Membrane or Coat, and Mesentery* The peri- toneum covers the entire surface of the small intestine, excepting at the posterior edge, where it is reflected to be prolonged back- wards by two laminae which constitute the mesentery, and which leave between them and the intestine, at the moment of their com- ing together, a triangular space exactly similar to that which pre- vails along the curvatures of the stomach. In this space, the in- testine does not adhere to the peritoneum, a circumstance which is favourable to its dilatation. With respect to the mesentery itself, it may be considered as a fold of the peritoneum which suspends and keeps in position the small intestine. One of its laminae is continuous above with the transverse mesocolon; the other is attached below to the vertebral column, in the course of a line which descends from left to right, from the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. Narrow in the greater part of its extent, it is very broad anteriorly, near the intestine. It is evidently this inequality in the dimensions of the mesentery that is the cause of the exist- ence of the convolutions of the small intestine ; and it has been not inaptly compared to a semicircular piece pf chamois leather, having the larger edge drawn out and much elongated in opposite direo- 5 * dittos, mcdius ; iiit({»v, iiilcsiimim.