Gog organs of digestion. I Its direction is generally nearly transverse, and only a little inclined downwards, to the right and forwards, so that its right extremity is a little anterior and inferior to the left. When the viscus is filled with food, this obliquity is increased, and the sto-| mach approaches the vertical direction. 2148. There are distinguished in the stomach an outer surface, an inner surface, two curvatures and two extremities, each having an orifice, a larger to the left, and a smaller to the right. OF THE STOMACH CONSIDERED AS TO ITS EXTEKIOR. I I 2149. Its anterior surface, which is more convex than the I posterior, and turned a little upwards in the state of repletion, \fi corresponds, from right to left, to the left lobe of the liver, to the |tl; diaphragm and the false ribs, and in the state of distention only, li; to the anterior wall of the abdomen, over a greater or less extent^ \r It is always inclined downwards and forwards. | 2150. Its j)osterior surface, which is flat, oblique, like the pre- I ceding, but of less extent than it, and directed downwards when the organ is full, is always entirely concealed in the posterior cavity of the omenta, and is in connexion with the transverse mesocolon, and sometimes even with the arch of tjie colon and the duodenum. 2151. These two surfaces are smooth and polished, continually moistened, traversed by a great number of blood vessels, and of a whitish colour. 2152. Great Curvature of the Stomach. This name is given to the place where the two surfaces of the stomach meet externally downwards and forwards. The edge here produced is convex, and extends from the one orifice to the other; in the vicinity of the spleen, and to the left, its convexity is greater than elsewhere. It corresponds to the transverse mesocolon and to the arch of the colon. It is as it were lodged in a separation of the lamellae of the anterior I lamina of the great omentum, so that, in the empty state, the peritoneum is not exactly applied upon it. It is to this space that the right and left gastro-epiploic arteries, and a certain number of lymphatic ganglia correspond. To the right, the great curvature of the stomach forms a kind of bend, which corresponds to an internal depression, which is named the Small CuUde-Sac. To the left, it presents a considerable prominence, named the Tuberosity or Great Cul-de-Sac of the Stomach, which, placed beneath the oesophageal orifice, is pro- longed into the hypochondrium, and diverges from the general di- rection of the viscus. It increases its length in a decided manner, and corresponds to the anterior half of the internal surface of the spleen, with which it is connected by a fold of the peritoneum, which lodges the vasa brevia. 2153. S7nall Curvature of the Stomach. It is concave, and unites