277 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. bitar surface of the superior maxillary bone, a little to the outside of the lachrymal groove, whence it is directed backwards and out- wards, curving upwards upon the convexity of the eye, between it and the rectus externus; it then degenerates into an aponeurosis which terminates in the sclerotic membrane, at the distance of two lines from the entrance of the optic nerve. 979. Its inferior surface rests upon the floor of the orbit; the upper corresponds to the eye-ball, and rectus inferior. 980. It carries the eye-ball inwards and forwards, and di- rects the pupil upwards and outwards. When it acts along with the preceding muscle, the eye is carried forwards and inwards, which counterbalances the effort made by the united recti muscles. 981. In order to dissect the muscles of the orbit, the roof and a part of the outer wall of it require to be removed; this may be done by sawing the orbitar arch, on the outside of the fossa to which the cartilaginous pully of the superior oblique is attached, and then the margin of the orbit a little below the union of the external orbitar process of the frontal bone with the malar bone. These sections being effected, a blow with a hammer will detach the piece of bone comprehended between them, and the upper wall of the orbit, which is very thin, may be removed by strong pincers. The muscles are now to be cleaned by removing the surrounding, cellular and adipose tissue. MUSCLES OF THE NECK. OF THE PLATYSMA MYOIDES. (Lafissimus Colli.) 982. This muscle has the appearance of a very thin fleshy mem- brane extended over the fore and lateral part of the neck, from the upper part of the thorax to the lower part of the face. It is of a qua- drilateral form, broader above and below than in the middle. Its fibres originate in the cellular tissue which covers the upper part of the deltoides and pectorahs major, and sometimes even, so far down as the fourth rib. From being at first scattered, they are brought nearer each other, and ascend obliquely inwards, the plane they form on the sides of the neck assuming some degree of thickness. The two muscles thus converge; at the middle of the base of the jaw, they expand a second time. Their more anterior fibres, which are the longest and largest, intermingle beneath the symphysis of the chin, and terminate in the skin of that part. The middle fibres are fixed to the external oblique line of the lower jaw, and to the base of that bone. Several of them pass across those of the depressor anguli oris to be continued into tne quadratus mcnti. or ascend to tlic commissure of the lips. I iie posterior arc in part incorporated with the depressor anguli