ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tached to Pouparfs ligament; the upper and inner part, call- ed its pubic portion, passes upwards, behind this ligament on the fore part of the pectineus muscle, to the ileo-pectineal line, from whence it is continued into the iliac fascia (1297). Where these two portions cease to be continuous, that is, at the inner part of the thigh, below Poupart's hgament, there is an opening, by which the saphena vein is transmitted to join the femoral vein. Tliis opening is semilunar, with its concavity upwards ; its outer cornu is continuous with a falciform edge, presented by the iliac portion of the fascia lata at this place. By this falciform edge^ whose concavity looks downwards and inwards, the iliac portion seems to terminate abruptly; but this is only apparent, for it is reflected backwards upon the sheath of the femoral vessels. This falciform edge is rendered indistinct by the presence of a thin reti- culated membrane, called the cribriform fascia, which extends from it to the pubic portion of the fascia lata, in front of the sheath of the femoral vessels, to which it adheres. It is through one of the openings in this fascia that crural hernia protrudes. Posteriorly, the fascia lata has indistinct origins from the sacrum and coccyx, from whence it is expanded over the glutseus maximus, and in the perineum, having the appearance of a very fine cellular web. Externally, it is attached to the outer lip of the iliac crest, then descends upon the glutseus medius, to which it affords points of attachment; it is here much more distinct. Internally, and still above, it is continuous with the ligament of the symphysis pu- bis, and with the periosteum of the sciatic tuberosity, and the os- seous branch which connects that eminence with the symphysis of the pubes. In the rest of its course, it is inserted into the whole length of the outer lip of the linea aspera of the femur, by a la- mina firmly united to the vastus externus ascending between it and the short portion of the biceps. This lamina also receives, in a distinct manner, a very great number of fibres from the tendon of the gluta^us maximus. After being thus fixed, the aponeurosis in question envelopes the muscles of the thigh, and separates externally into two distinct laminae, the outer and thinner of which covers the tensor vaginae muscle, while the other, which is thicker, sinks under it, and pro- ceeds to the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint, and the curved tendon of the rectus femoris. Beneath the extensor muscle, these two la- minas unite, and constitute a very thick and solid band, which de- scends vertically along the outer part of the thigh, being continuous at its edges with the rest of the aponeurosis. Inferiorly, the aponeurosis is confounded around the knee with that of the leg. It also unites with the tendons of the extensor muscles, and is attached to the two tuberosities of the tibia, but especially to the outer. 1323. The outer surface of the fascia lata is separated from the integuments by a thick layer of adipose cellular tissue, blood ves- sels, lymphatics, and nerves. It sends around each of them a fi-