210 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. to be attached to the posterior part of the semilunar and cunei- form bones. It is covered by the tendons of the extensors of the fingers, and, Hke the anterior, is applied upon the synovial mem- brane. 679. Synovial Membrane. This membrane, which is at first extended over the convex surface presented by the bones of tlie carpus, as well as over the peculiar substance which connects them together, leaves these parts to proceed to the inner surface of the ligaments just described ; it is even seen at various points exposed between their fibres, and when the articulation is pressed, it pro- trudes under the form of small vesicles. It leaves the ligaments to be expanded over the articular part of the radius, over the inferior surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage. It always con- tains a considerable quantity of synovia. In this articulation, there are observed numerous cellular and vascular grains around the small head of the ulna; they receive their vessels from the interosseous vessels. Some of them, al- though less developed, also occur on the circumference of the car- tilage of the radius. AHTICULATIONS OF THE CARPAL BONES. AHTICULATIONS OF THE FIRST HOW OF CARPAL BONES. 680. We have already described the surfaces by means of which the bones of the carpus are joined to each other; all their articu- lations are arthrodial; the points by which they are in contact, are therefore covered with cartilage. We have only now to speak of their ligaments, which are similar for the three first bones of the first row, and for all those of the second. A nearly continuous fibrous layer also surrounds these bones, and insures the solidity of their articulations. C81. Interosseous Ligaments. They are two very narrow lay- ers of an apparently fibro-cartilaginous substance, dense and com- pact, which occur at the upper part of the interval left between the scaphoid and semilunar bones on the one hand, and between the latter and the cuneiform bone on the other. Their upper sur- face is smooth, and on a level with the convexity of the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and is covered by the synovial membrane of the wrist joint. The smallness of the intervals which they occupy, accounts for the extreme shortness of these ligaments. 682. Dorsal or Posterior Ligaments. These are two in num- ber, and are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row of the carpus, between the scaphoid and semilunar bones on the one hand, and on the other, between the latter bone and the cunei- form. They are in a great measure confounded with the neigh- bouring fibrous organs, and are continued into each other by some of their fibres. Of these the superficial are longest.