89 INNEU SUUFACE OF THE CRANIUM. below upwards, and from behind forwards ; on the outside and an- teriorly, the small fossa of the lachrymal gland ; and on the inside, the attachment of the pulley of the obliquus superior muscle of the eye. Externally the orbitar vault is limited by an uneven line, where the frontal and sphenoid bones unite with the cheek bone, and on the Inside by the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, which form a considerable projection on each side of the median line, and at the lower part of which are seen the ethmoidal turbinated bone, a portion of the middle meatus of the nasal fossae, the infundibnlum, and some papyraceous laminae which articulate with the upper maxillary bone, while above, by uniting with the frontal bone, they form the ethmoidal suture. 301. It is observed that most of the eminences of the free por- tion of the lower aspect of the cranium, such as the mastoid, jugu- lar, styloid, vaginal, and pterygoid processes, are intended for the insertion of parts. 302. Lateral Regions. Each of the lateral regions is of an ir- regular elliptical form, and extends horizontally from the external orbitar process to the lambdoidal suture, and vertically from the elevated curved line on the parietal bone to the base of the zygo- matic process. They are divided into two portions. 303. Of these, the upper, which is of great extent, has received the name of Temporal Fossa, although it merits this appellation only at its fore part, where it is concave, for behind it is plain and even convex. It is filled by the temporal muscle, and is formed by the temporal and sphenoid bones below, and by the parietal and frontal above. It is traversed by various sutures, the coronal, the sphenoidal, the spheno-temporal, the spheno-parietal, and the squamous; a small portion only of the two first appearing upon it. It also presents a considerable number of furrows for the deep temporal arteries. 304. This temporal fossa, at the lower part of which is seen the zygomatic process, is circumscribed by a low ridge, which gives at- tachment in the greater part of its extent to the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. This line, which commences at the external or- bitar process, ascends backwards upon the frontal bone, and then descends on the parietal, to proceed forwards over the temporal bone to the base of the zygomatic process, and to be continued ho- rizontally, into that process, as far as its union with the check bone. 305. The other ])ortion of the lateral regions of the cranium, which IS the posterior and smaller, presents at its back part the mastoid process, surmounted by the mastoid hole, and limited be- tore by the meatus auditorius cxternus, and behind by the mastoi- dal suture. Inner Surface of the Cranium. 306. This surface forms the boundary of a hr^e cavity, of an ovdl torm, with the small extremity turned forwards. Its transverse