OF THE AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS MEMBRANE. 557 1972. The retina appears formed of two laminjE which are so Josely united as to be ahnost inseparable. The outer of these la- -nina? is medullary, pulpy or mucous, and is partly detached by naceration. The inner is fibro-vascular, firmer, and serves to support the outer. It has been named the tunica vasculosa re- incE by some anatomists. It is in the latter especially that the Lientral artery of the optic nerve expands, constituting the only imown means of union between the retina and the other parts of [ihe ball of the eye. * OF THE AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS MEMBRANE. 1973. The Aqueous Humour is a limpid and transparent fluid, rVhich fiUs the two chambers of the eye, from the cornea to the rrystalline lens, so that, as we have already said, it is in contact ridth the two surfaces of the iris. Its quantity is from five to six 7;rains at the most. It is slightly viscous, like' water holding a itittle gum in solution. Submitted to the action of caloric, it how- vver leaves no residuum ; it is not coagulated either by acids or, i\iy alcohol, only nitric acid renders it a little turbid. Its specific ri;ravity, according to Chenevix, is 1.0003. The same chemist ad- naits in it the presence of gelatine, albumen and muriate of soda; Nicolas to these adds phosphate of lime. All these principles mre suspended in an immense quantity of water. Left to itself, it quickly putrefies. During life, it is reproduced with the greatest sacility, when its removal has been effected by any cause. In foetuses and newly-born children, this humour has a reddish iant, which is dissipated about a month after birth. In some old jersons, it naturally loses a part of its transparency. 1974. The membrane of the aqueous humour is very thin, per- ectly translucid, and very difficult to be distinguished. It lines ill the walls of the anterior chamber of the eye, and is perforated jpposite the pupil. In embryos, it forms a serous bag without iperture, on account of the existence of the raembrana pupillaris ,1968). In no case does it penetrate into the posterior chamber. By ebullition it is easily separated from the posterior surface of the ;ornea (1956). It was discovered in the last century by Demours md Descemet, although Zinn would appear to have spoken of it sefore them. 1975. Some authors assert that this membrane is not destined for the exhalation of the aqueous humour, alleging that it is brought * "Exclusively of the two layers here noticed, the retina is found to he covered 5n Its external surface by a delicate trans])urent membrane, united to it by cellular iubstance and vessels. If tlie sclerotica be removed, and the choroid membrane lareluliy torn and everted, small portions of the structure here alluded to can be de- ached, or a globule of air, or even of quicksilver, may be insinuated beneath it, by ■inicn means It is raised, and can be seen distinctly, if held towards the light." An 8I9"" " ^'^'^'"'"'""^ now Jlrit. discovered, by Arthur Jacob, M.D., Phil. Trans.