ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEUIOR EXrUKMITIIiS, 219 COIK .v^.-vlylcs of the femur, the upper extremity of the tibia, and the posterior surface of the patella. The condyles of the femur, toge- ther with the pulley which exists between them, are invested by a pretty thick cartilage, which is especially so at the middle part of the condyles; this cartilage does not cover the sides of the con- dyles, and ascends much higher before than behind. Another less thick'car tilao-e is extended over the posterior surface of the patella. Lastly there is a layer of the same substance on each of the cavi- ties on the upper extremity of the tibia, and this is also thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The ligaments of this articulation belong peculiarly to the patel- la, or are common to the femur and tibia, and surround a syno- vial membrane of great extent. 716. Ligament of the Patella (Ligamentum patellce). This ligament is in reality nothing but the continuation of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, in the substance of which the patella seems to be developed in the same manner as the sesa- moid bones (503) ; nor is it admitted as a distinct ligament by most authors. It forms a flat bundle, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, more developed above than below, extended from the inferior angle of the patella, and the depression at the lower part of its posterior surface, to the anterior tuberosity of the ti- bia (508). Its anterior surface is covered by the skin, and a pro- longation of the fascia lata. The posterior surface is applied at its upper part, upon an adipose mass of remarkable size, which it- self rests upon the synovial capsule, and at its lower part is sepa- rated from the tibia by a small bursa mucosa, which is extremely loose, and rather plentifully supplied with synovia. The edges of the ligament of the patella are continuous with the aponeuroses, which the triceps extensor muscle transmits to the tibia. Its fibres are very different from those of the other ligaments. They are parallel, close, and glistening; the superficial fibres are continuous at the fore part of the patella, with those of the tendon of the rectus muscle; the posterior manifestly form a continuation of those of the bone itself. 717- Long External Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum laterale externum longum genu). It is situated nearer the posterior part of the articulation than the anterior; it is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, which descends vertically from the tuberosity of the external condyle of the femur, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. It is covered in the greater part of its extent by the ten- don of the biceps flexor cruris ; internally, it is applied upon the tendon of the poplititus, the corresponding semilunar fibro-carti- lage, to which it intimately adheres, and the synovial membrane. The external inferior articular vessels pass beneath it. Another ligamentous bundle, {Ligamentum laterale externum Oreye), appears accessory to this. It passes, behind, and parallel to It, from the lower part of the external condyle of the femur to the summit of the upper extremity of the fibula.