PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 72 raised at a riglit angle to the rest of the bone. The middle and horizontal portion is named the Body, and the parts -which are vertical and situated behind are termed BrcincJws {Rami). The lower jaw-bone may be divided into the following parts : 248. Older or Cutfmeons Atipect. This is placed almost im- mediately under the skin at the fore part, but is more deeply seated behind. It is convex, and presents, in the median line, the sym- physis of the chin, a sort of vertical line which indicates the point of union of the two pieces of which the bone consists in childhood; below this, there is a projecting surface, more or less distinct in different subjects, rough, and of a triangular form, with the sum- mit turned upwards : this prominence is termed the Mental Pro- cess. Above it, on each side, there is a superficial cavity, into which is inserted the levator menti muscle, and more outwardly, imme- diately beneath the second email grinder, or the first, the external orifice of the lower dentar canal, named the Mental Hole, {fora- men me7iti), which gives passage to the vessels and nerves of the same name : it is oval, and directed obliquely backwards. From th.e two inferior angles of the mental process, there arises, on either side, a slightly prominent line, which at first follows a horizontal direction, and afterwards rises obliquely backwards, to be continued into the anterior edge of the coronoid process ; this line, which is rather indistinct in the middle, is the external ob- lique line, (Uvea ohliqua ewterna J, into which are inserted the de- pressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, andplatysmamyoides. Along the upper margin of this prominent line, by the side of the alveoli, there runs a channel, which terminates at the inner side of the coronoid process, and gives attachment in its posterior half to the buccinator muscle. Lastly, at the back part, is the external surface of the ramus of the jaw, which is qviadi-ilateral, somewhat uneven, and covered by the masseter muscle which is attached to it. 249. Inner or Linyual aspect. This is concave, directed to- ■wards the cavity of the mouth, invested at its upper part by the mucous membrane of that cavity, furrowed in the middle by the symphysis of the chin, beneath which are observed four eminences named the Genial Processes.* They are placed in pairs above each other, the two upper giving attachment to the genio-glossi muscles, the two lower to the gcnio-hyoidei. These tubercles arc often spinous; sometimes there are only two that are distinct. Above, and on each side of the genial processes, are two cavities, which lodge the sublingual glands, and under them, two rough de- pressions for the insertion of the digastric muscles ; while, just at their level arise the internal ohliqve lines, (linece obliquce inter- nee ) which are more prominent than the outer, especially at the back part, where they form a sort of rounded prominence. They ascend toward the coronoid processes, and give insertion anteriorly ' Yi tlov, mcntuin.