ORGANS OF THE VOICE. towards tlie tongue, and the summit downwards towards tho trachea. Two surfaces and two extremities are distinguished in it. 1492. Eccternal surface of the Laryn.v.—It presents anteriorly the middle prominence of the thyroid cartilage, which is larger in the male than in the female; the two oblique surfaces placed on its sides; the ridge which traverses them behind ; a triangular surface which is covered by the constrictor pharyngis inferior; the small horns of the thyroid cartilage and their articulation Avith the cri- coid ;. the crico-thyroid membrane; the two muscles of the same name, and a part of the cricoid cartilage. Posteriorly, there are . observed on the outside of the larynx the arytenoid muscle ; the middle and posterior line of the cricoid cartilage, the posterior erico-arytenoid muscles; a vacant space placed on each side be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, broad above, narrow be- low, of greater extent in man than in woman, filled by adipose cel- lular tissue, and limited externally by the posterior edge of the thyroid cartilage, which is more prominent than the other j)arts of the larynx. 1493. Internal Surface of the Larynx.—It is hned in its whole extent by the mucous membrane. At its lower part, it is formed by the cricoid cartilage, and presents nothing remarkable. Towards the middle, on either side, it presents the Vocal Cords, or the /vi/e- rior Ligaments of the Glottis, which are formed by the thyro-ary te- noid ligaments invested by the mucous membrane (1480). Above the vocal cords are two elongated depressions, of a variable depth, extended from the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilages. Their aper- tilre, which is always open and of an elliptical form, is larger than their bottom, and directed inwards and a little upwards ; their bottom is covered by the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. They are named the Ventricles or Sinuses of the larynw. In man they are more deeply situated and more distant from the external aperture than in woman, because in him the arytenoid cartilages are longer and more elevated. They are themselves surmounted by a fold of the mucous membrane (1487) ; named by anatomists the Superior Ligament of the Glottis, which is parallel to the vocal cords. The interval comprised between the superior and inferior Hga- ments of one side, and those of the other, by which the air enters into the respiratory passages, or issues from them, is the Glottis.* This aperture, which is of an oblong form, its greatest diameter being from behind forwards, is about ten or eleven lines long in an adult man; posteriorly, where it is formed by the separation ex- isting between the anterior prominence of the Ijase of the two ary- tenoid cartilages, it is from two to three lines in breadth, but anteriorly much narrower in consequence of the approximation of the two ligaments by which it is formed. In the female, the dimensions of the glottis are a httle less; they also vary in dif- * Y\<uTTis of the Greeks.