360 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and inner edge of the plantar aponeurosis. Its anterior surface IS covered by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the tendons just mentioned, the anterior tibial nerve and vessels, and a small part of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis. Its upper edge is continuous with the aponeurosis of the leg. The lower sends over the back of the foot a thin and indistinct aponeurotic lamina, which gradually loses itself, towards the toes, in the cellular tis- sue ; this is commonly designated by the name of dorsal aponeUr^ rosis of the foot. 1327. Internal Annular Ligament. It is broader, and less re- gularly defined than the other, and descends from the fore part of the malleolus internus to the posterior and inner part of the calca- neum, forming, with that bone, a canal which contains the sheath of the tendons of the tibiahs posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor pollicis, as well as the plantar vessels and nerves, and a great quantity of adipose tissue. Above, it is continuous with the tibial aponeurosis; below, it gives attachment to the adductor pollicis, and is covered by the skin. OF THE PLANTAR APONEUHCSIS. 1328. The Plantar Aponeurosis is stronger and denser than the palmar (1110), to which it has a considerable resemblance in other respects. It is of a somewhat triangular form, and divided into three portions, a middle, thicker, and broader, and two lateral, which are very thin, and applied upon the muscles of the great and small toes. It is attached, posteriorly, where it is very strong, to the posterior and inferior eminences of the calcaneum, directs itself forwards, becoming broader, by the separation of its fibres, sends two partitions between the superficial muscles of the sole of the foot, furnishes them with points of attachment, and, towards the fore part of the metatarsus, divides into five slips, each of which subdivides into two others; these ascend upon the sides of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, with whose ligaments they are intimately confounded, and by their separation give passage to the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. The upper surface of this aponeurosis is in connexion with the muscles of the sole of the foot. It furnishes insertions to the adductor pollicis, abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis commu- nis digitorum. Its inferior surface sends many fibres to the chorion of the skin, and rests upon a dense adipose tissue, which consists of small conglomerated masses.