ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. separates from it below, to tlie outer condyle of the femur, the external head of the gastrocnemius, plantaris and soleus. 2633. Its inner side is near the semi-membranosus muscle, which also retires from it as it descends, and afterwards corres- ponds to the internal popliteal nerve and the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle. 2634. The popliteal artery gives off a great numbet of small branches to the sciatic nerve, the adipose cellular tissue, and to the neighbouring parts; but their number is indeterminate, and their disposition far from regular. Some of them however, which are larger than the rest, merit a separate description. Branches which t|ie Popliteal Artery gives off in tlie Ham. 3635. They are three in number, and are designated by the name of Superior Articular Arteries. They are distinguished into internal, external, and middle. 2636. Of the Internal Superior Articular Artery {Art. Articu- laris Genu Superior Interna). It is seldom single, there being generally two or three. When it exists alone, it may arise from the popliteal artery, at the moment when the latter passes through the adductor magnus, or from any other part of its extent down to the level of the condyles. In all cases, it descends inwards, passes tinder the tendon of the adductor magnus, turns forwards over the inner part of the femur, above the corresponding condyle, and, after throwing some ramifications into the periosteum of that bone, di- vides into two branches. One of them descends obliquely out- wards, between the femur and the vastus internus muscle, to which it is distributed, as well as to the neighbouring cellular tissue, or is entirely expanded in the muscles, and anastomoses with the twigs of the external circumflex artery. The other branch reaches along with the tendon of the adductor magnus as far as the inner con- dyle, and there separates into a great number of twigs, which pro- ceed transversely inwards upon the femur, and are distributed to the vastus internus muscle, or sink into the knee joint, and anas- tomose with those of the external superior articular artery. 2637- Of the External Superior Articular Artery {Art. Artie. Getm Sup. Externa). It arises externally from the popliteal artery imme- diately above the outer condyle of the femur, and proceeds trans- versely outwards under the biceps muscle, winding over the femur. It also divides into two branches, of which the upper loses itself entirely in the vastus externus muscle, while the inner descends obliquely forwards upon the condyle of the femur, under the apo- neurosis, as far as the patella, on which it anastomoses with the internal superior articular artery. 2638. Of the Middle Superior Articidar Artery {Art. Artie. Genu Media s. Azyga). Much smaller than the preceding two,it arises from the fore part of the popliteal artery, sometimes above, sometimes op-