406 ORGANS OF THE VOICE. are separated, and only connected with each other by a trans- verse cord, more or less broad and thick, which is named the Isthmus of the Thyroid Gland. This cord is sometimes want- ing, and has never the same appearance in two subjects, nor does It ever ascend as high as the larynx, which is embraced in the con- cavity of the crescent, which it forms in conjunction with the two lateral lobes. 1497. The anterior surface of the thyroid body, which is gene- rally convex over its whole extent, is covered in the middle by the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, and on the sides by the latissimi colU, omo-hyoidei, and sterno-cleido-raastoidei. Its posterior surface, which is concave, is connected by a filamentous cellular tissue with the larynx and the first rings of the trachea. It also covers the crico-thyroidei, thyro-hyoidei, and constrictores pharyngis inferiores. Its posterior and lateral edges rest upon the trunks of the carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the pneumo-gastric and recurrent nerves, the communicating cords of the cervical gangha, and that of the left side only, on the oesopha- gus. The superior thyroid arteries run along its upper edge, which is deeply notched in the middle. The lower edge, which is convex, is in like manner accompanied by arteries, and gives rise to large veins. The upper extremities of its lateral lobes are lodged between the thyroid cartilage and the trunks of the carotid arteries; the lower, between these arteries and the trachea. 1498. The thyroid body is not contained in any membrane. The cellular tissue by which it is immediately surrounded seems alone to supply it with an envelope, which is somewhat dense and never contains fat. * 1499. The proper tissue of the thyroid body is soft and spongy. Its colour varies much; most commonly it is of a brownish red, deeper in women and children, than in men and adults; sometimes it has a gray or yellowish tint. Its intimate texture is not yet well known: the greater number of anatomists liken it to that of the glands; and this body is in fact composed of several distinct lo- bules, agglomerated into lobes of greater or less size, whose inter- vals are occupied by a delicate cellular tissue, which never presents any adipose matter ; but it is in small quantity. An oily fluid 0 a yellowish colour seems to fill the areola; without being containe in particular cavities. Very frequently, however, there are 0' served disseminated here and there in the substance of the orgarj' vesicles swelled with a milky or colourless fluid, thick or thin * Ab inferiori margine ossis hyoidei medii aut latei-alis ssepissime in alterutro, si nistro praesertim latere, vel utnnqiie musculus aliquis ligamentosus %'enit (Leva glandulcc thyreohlccc), dimidinj circiter musciili hyotliyreoidci latitudinis, ciijus fib supra cartilagiiiem thyreoidenm ad mediam usque glaudulaK thyreoidcK partem por guiitur, et huie ipsi superstratiE scnsim evanescunt. Interdum fibra; nonnullaj mu cull cricothyreoidei ad earn appelluiit. Glaudulam thyreoideam per liunc muscul paulisper laryngem versus atque traclieam, per musculos autem sternothyreoideum fiternohyoideum et omohyoideum illas versus partes antrorsura tralii, facile seq tur. Soenim. Dc Corp. Hum. fab, iom, vi. p. 38.