48 PASSIVK ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. gives passage to the frontal vessels and nerves. On the margin of this hole, there is another mucli smaller, forming a mere pore which allows an arterial branch to penetrate into the frontal sinus 152. On the outside of this aspect, above the external orbitar process, there is a prominent line, which is curved, and runs in direction upwards and backwards. It forms the limit of a small surface which constitutes part of the temporal fossa, and gives at- tachment to the temporal muscle. 153. Cerebral, posterior, or internal aspect. This is concave in contact with the dura mater, and is marked in the middle with a groove (sulcus longitudinalis) in which is lodged the com mencement of the superior longitudinal sinus of that membrane The margins of this groove unite below, forming a ridge (crist frontalis) to which the summit of the falx is in part attached, an which terminates at a hole called the foramen caecum. The uses of this aperture are not yet well known ; sometimes it is completed by the ethmoid bone. 154. This surface of the bone also presents on each side a great number of inequalities, which correspond to the convolutions of the brain, at least in part; for, as Bichat has remarked, it is often a prominent portion of the brain that corresponds to an eminence on the bone, and vice versa. These inequalities are commonly nam- ed mamillary eminences and digital impressions. There are also observed upon it several arterial furrows, and the frontal fossa;, which correspond to the protuberances of the same name. 155. The Upjjer 7na.rgin is thick, uneven, more than semicir- cular, cut obliquely at the expense of its inner plate above, and of the outer below. It is articulated with the parietal bones in such a manner, that, with the aid of this obliquity of its edge, it rests upon them above, and supports them below. It terminates on each side by a broad rough triangular surface, which joins the great wings of the sphenoid bone. 156. The Lower margin is straight, thin, interrupted in its middle part by the ethmoidal notch, and cut obliquely so as to sus- tain the transverse orbitar processes of the sphenoid bone. 157. Structure. The frontal bone is pretty thick towards the nasal protuberance and the external orbital processes, but very thin and even transparent in its orbital region. It is formed of diploe contained between two compact lamina?, and presents in its substance two cavities, which bear the name frontal sinuses. These sinuses, which vary in size in different subjects, do not exist in children, while they are generally very large in old people; they have their orifice anterior to the ethmoidal notch, and from thence extend into the frontal region of the bone, sometimes even as far as the external orbital processes. They are separated fron- each other by a septum, which, however, is sometimes wanting It is seldom that they are wanting altogether. They communicate with the anterior cellules of the ethmoid bone. 158. Articulations. Tlie frontal bone is articulated with th(