ORGANS or CIRCULATION. 07G basilar trunk. Its size is very variable, although almost always pretty considerable. It directs itself transversely outwards, cross- ing the corpus pyramidale, passes between the origins of the corresponding pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and advances in a serpentine manner upon the inferior surface of the cerebellum. Its first twigs, which are very small, are distri- buted to the superior extremity of the spinal marrow, the origins of the pneumo-gastric and hypo-glossal nerves, and the walls of the fourth ventricle. But the last, which are much larger, creep under the hemisphere of the cerebellum, as far as its circumference, where they communicate with those of the superior cerebellar ar- tery. There are only some which penetrate into the anfractuosi- ties; the rest subdivide at the surface, and form a very fine net- work in the pia mater. OF THIS BASILAll AllTKllY. 2396. The Basilar Artery (Jrteria basilaris), results from the union of the two vertebral arteries. Larger than either of them individually, it has yet a smaller calibre than that of the two to- gether. It commences posteriorly towards the groove which sepa- rates the cerebral protuberance from the medulla oblongata, ascends, describing some Hexuosities, in the groove which runs along the middle part of the protuberance, and ends anteriorly in the inter- val which sejiarates the crura of the brain. It therefore corres- })onds above to a groove of the protuberance, and rests below upon the basilar groove. 2397- III its short course, the basilar artery gives off on each side a great number of small irregular and flexuous twigs, which are distributed to the protuberance, the cerebellum, the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia, and the acoustic, facial and trifacial nerves. But there also separate from it two somewhat more remarkable branches, which are the superior cerebellar. 2398. Superior Cerebellar Artery {Art. cerebelli svperior). Arising from the basilar artery, near its termination, it directs it- self outwards and backwards under the protuberance and crus of the brain, around which it turns to ascend upon the upper surface of the cerebellum, opposite the tubercula quadrigemina, and after sending a great number of twigs over the protuberance, the crura cerebri and cerebelli, the tubercula quadrigemina, and into the pineal gland, the choroid plexus and the valvule of Vieussens, it divides into a great number of branches, some of which ascend in a very flexuous manner upon the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, whilst others descend upon the upper surface of tiie cerebellum, where they are distributed like those of the inferior cerebellar artery (2395). 2399. The basilar artery terminates by separating mto two branches, which are the posterior cerebral arteries.