OF THE OPTIC NEllVES. 4>53 y as many facts for the one, as for the other of these opinions. Vt the place of this union, the optic nerves form a quacWlateral Kidy (commissure of the optic nerves), which rests upon a trans- ( isc groove of the sphenoid bone, gives attachment by its upper u if ace to the membrane which closes the third ventricle anterior- k, and is manifestly continuous behind with the tuber cinereum, hence the infundibulum arises. 1629. The optic nerves then separate again; but they are now icrfectly cylindrical and isolated on all sides. They proceed for- wards and outwards toward the optic foramina through which they <sue from the cranium along with the ophthalmic artery, which is ihiccd at the lower and outer part. In this second part of their ourse, they are enveloped by a neurilema, while from their exit rom beneath the middle lobe of the brain to that of their union, hey were only covered by the pia mater and arachnoid membrane, ,nd that at the under surface only. 1630. The latter membrane, however, at the foremost part, I'brms, around them, a sheath which accompanies them into the op- idc foramen, and is then reflected over the dura mater, which also iiurnishes them with a fibrous canal, which we have already de- scribed (1559). In passing through the optic holes, they bend lilightly at an obtuse angle, and become of smaller diameter. At Idieir entrance into the orbit, they are surrounded by the posterior >extremities of the four recti muscles of the eye, from the fleshy KDodies of which they are separated by a considerable mass of adi- KDose cellular tissue, in which are found immersed the ciliary lacrves and vessels, and the ophthalmic ganglion. During their ) passage in this cavity, the optic nerves describe a slight curvature, •bf which the convexity is directed outwards. On arriving at the >tposterior, internal, and inferior parts of the eye, they experience a manifest contraction, traverse the sclerotic and choroid mem- branes, and terminate at the middle of the retina by a truncated extremity. 1631. Until their union, the optic' nerves arc soft and en- tirely pulpy; they present at their surface no trace of striae or cineritious substance; they generally only present some aper- tures which are traversed by blood-vessels. Beyond their com- missure, they become denser and firmer. From the optic hole to their termination, they are surrounded by an exterior neu- Irilema, very distinct from the meningeal sheath, with which they arc, however, connected by small laminar prolongations. This neurilema is thicker, stronger, and whiter than that of the other nerves; from its internal surface there are detached pro- longations in the form of partitions, which seem to divide the inte- rior of the nerve into a great number of small canals filled with white substance. The optic nerve is not, therefore, like the other nerves, formed of an assemblage of filaments united into a cord, and iif^ structure may be very well seen by leaving it to macerate foi; ome tunc in a solution of corrosive sublimate, and by wasiiing with.