278 ACTIVE OliGANS OF LOCOMOTION. oris, and in part lost in the cellular tissue of the cheek. The latter sometimes ascend to the orbicularis palpebrarum, or direct themselves toward the ear, covering the trapezius a httle ; but the last of them, which are much shorter than the rest, do not reach so far as the jaw-bone. They are also frequently strengthened by a thin muscular plane, (Musculus risorms of Santorini), which, arising before the parotid gland, or aponeurosis of the masseter muscle, proceeds horizontally toward the angle of the mouth. 983. The external surface of the platysma-myoides is covered by the skin, from which it is separated by a dense cellular tissue, con- taining in general little fat. The inner surface covers at its lower part the deltoides and pectoralis major, as well as the clavicle; in the middle, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, omo-hyoideus, sterno- hyoideus, sterno-thyroideus, thyro-hyoideus, digastricus and mylo- hyoidcus, the external jugular vein, the carotid and superior thy- roid arteries, and the maxillary gland. At the upper part, it lies upon the body of the lower jaw, part of the parotid gland, the mas- seter, buccinator, depressor anguli oris, levator menti, and zygo- maticus major muscles, and the labial artery. 984. It depresses and carries outwards the commissure of the lips ; lowers the skin of the cheek and that of the neck, which it wrinkles transversely; assists in lowering the under jaw ; and may also raise the skin which covers the upper part of the chest. 985. For the dissection of this muscle put a block under the shoulders of the subject, and turn its face opposite to the side which is to be dissected. Make an incision through the skin a little below the clavicle, and parallel with it, and another in the same direction along the base of the lower jaw ; these two incisions are to be joined by another, perpendicular to them, extending from the middle of the one to the middle of the other; the flaps are now to be dissected off, the one forwards and the other backwards. The cellular tissue between the skin and the muscle is very dense, and is generally called the superficial cervical fascia. * OF THE STEKNO-MASTOIDEUS. (Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus.) 986. This muscle is long, flat, about two inches broad, narrow- er in the middle than at its extremities, bifurcated below, and si- tuated obliquely upon the anterior and lateral parts of the neck. The two branches of its bifurcation are separated from each other by an interval filled with cellular tissue. The inner or anterior, which is thicker and narrower than the other, arises from the fore part of the upper extremity of the sternum, by a tendon which ascends very high upon the fleshy fibres. The outer, which is • Vide Allan Burns' Surgical Anatomy of the head and neck.