555 OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. OF THE CILIARY PROCESSES. 1969. The Ciliary Processes (Processus Ciliares,) arc small ' vasculo-merabraneous prominent bodies, placed beside each other in : a radiating manner, so as to form a ring like the disk of a radiated I flower, which surrounds the crystalline lens in the manner of a 1 crown placed behind the iris and the ciliary circle, in particular de- ] pressions of the fore part of the hyaloid membrane. This ring ' which results from the union of the ciliary processes, is called the < Ciliary Body. The number of ciliary processes varies from sixty to eighty, and ■ is even frequently greater. Each of them is about a line and a half in length, but they are alternately longer and shorter. They ; are triangular, very pale and thin behind, becoming more promi- : nent, thicker, and whiter before. Their posterior edge, which is I concave, is received at the circumference of the crystalline lens into a groove of the vitreous body. The anterior is apphed upon the cihary circle and the iris. The inner, which is much shorter than the others, is free, and measures the space comprised between the crystalline lens and the posterior surface of the iris ; it is denticu- lated ; the angle by which it is terminated posteriorly does not ad- here to the capsiJe of the lens, but the anterior angle is connected with the iris by cellular filaments and vessels. There proceed from it straight lines which converge towards the pupil on the pos- terior surface of that membrane, (1964). By their posterior extremity, the ciliary processes separate in a diverging manner, and are prolonged on the hyaloid membrane, on which we find an equal number of folds or laminae project- ing outwards, and dove-tailed as it were with the ciliary pro- cesses. These membraneous folds, which collectively are called the zonule of Zinn, are vascular, the vessels pass in great numbers from the ciliary processes to them, and these vessels, together with the dove-tailing of the two sets of processes, form the bond of union between the choroid and hyaloid membranes, which other- wise would have no connexion with each other.* The cihary body, consisting of the united ciliary processes, therefore terminates posteriorly by a dentated and undulated edge, equally Mack in its whole extent; anteriorly it presents lines which are the ciliary processes themselves, separated by dark intervals. ^ The surface of the ciliary processes is reticulated and villous. They receive almost as many vessels of themselves as all the other .' Sf'*^^ together. Dr. Ribes thinks they are destined for the reproduction of the humours of that organf; their arteries i> ' ^."o*^ I""""* particular account of this structure viik The Transactions of the "^y**' society of Edinburgli, vol. x. part 1st, and following K. t Bulletin de la Facullfi dc Mcdccinc, loco cit. This opinion is contrary to that of a .d supposed them ir>tendcd for keeping the crystalline lens in its place, tkms «f r-"""^.^ ^^''o consider them as destined for the mo' tions of the in*, or the protraction of the lens.