324 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. pollicis, and the last two palmar interossei muscles. Its outer edge corresponds above to the anterior interosseous artery. 1171. This muscle bends the third phalanx upon the second, the latter upon the first, the first upon the metacarpus, and the hand upon the fore-arm, or the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS MANUS. 1172. This muscle is elongated, thin, flattened, thicker internal- ly than externally, and situated upon the radius, from the three upper fourths of the anterior surface of which it arises by short ■aponeurotic fibres, as well as from the neighbouring portion of the •interosseous ligament, and even frequently from the coronoid pro- cess of the ulna, by a particular prolongation, fleshy in the middle, '"nd tendinous at its extremities. The fleshy fibres, which are alt bUque and about an inch long, form a bundle which descends early vertically, and are inserted at the back part of a tendon, hich they accompany until opposite the pronator quadratus. This endon then becomes free and rounded, passes before the carpus, under the annular ligament, with the tendons of the two preceding muscles. It is there kept down by the synovial membrane which belongs to them (1165), and afterwards descends obliquely out- wards between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, then between the two sesamoid bones. It now passes into a fibrous sheath similar to that which we have described in the other fingers (1166), but whose fibres are very widely set, and much less dis- tinct ; it is there invested by a synovial membrane which keeps it in place, presents the trace of a longitudinal division, and termi- nates by being expanded over the anterior surface of the last pha- Janx of the thumb. 1173. The anterior surface of the flexor longus pollicis is co- vered by the flexor digitorum sublimis, flexor carpi radialis and su- pinator longus muscles, the radial artery, and the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The posterior surface lies upon the radius, part of the interosseous ligament, the pronator quadratus, the wrist joint, the fore part of the carpus, and the flexor brevis pollicis. Its inner edge, which is much thicker than the outer, lies upon the flexor digitorum profundus. 1174. This muscle bendS the last phalanx of the thumb vipon jlie first, the first upon the corresponding metacarpal bone, and the latter upon the radius. It can also bend the hand upon the fore- arm, and the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE I'UONATOR QUADRATUS. 175. The 'pronator quadratus is, as its name implies, of a *luaclrilateral form, thin and flat. It lies upon the lower part of the Y