OIIGANS OF SENSATION. after giving several filaments to the muscles just named. With respect to the branch itself, it descends outwards before the neck of the rib, ajid unites Avith the eighth cervical nerve to assist in forming the brachial plexus (174'8). 1788. Anterior Branch of the Second Dorsal Pair. It directs itself along the inner surface of the second rib, as far as the ante- rior edge of the serratus raagnus, where it divides into two twigs, an intercostal properly so called, and a brachial. The intercostal twig continues to run along the lower edge of the rib, gives filaments to the intercostal muscles, and, on arriving at the sternum, emerges between that bone and the external inter- costal muscle, and is expanded by several twigs on the anterior part of the thorax and in the pectoralis major. The brachial twig immediately perforates the external intercos- tal muscle, after giving it some small filaments, and descei^ds ob- liquely outwards into the axilla, where it sometimes receives a fila- ment of communication from the internal cutaneous nerve (1755), which augments its size. It then descends along the inner and back part of the arm, sends several filaments to tlae integuments, and loses itself near the elbow by a great number of ramifications. 1,789. Anterior Branch of the Third Dorsal Pair. It follows the Ipwer edge of the third rib as far as its middle, gives some fila- ments to the posterior part of the intercostal muscles, and divides in|;o two twigs. One of these, the intercostal, follows the same di- j:ection as the branch, gives off but few filaments, passes under the triangularis sterni, furnishes it with some ramifications, and is ex- panded near the sternum upon the anterior part of the thorax. The other, the brachial twig, gives some filaments to the intercos- tal muscles, perforates the external, descends in the lower part of the axilla, and loses itself on the inner part of the arm. 1790. Anterior Branches of the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Dorsal Pairs. They run along the lower edge of the corresponding ribs, as far as its middle, ■where, after sending nu- merous and pretty long filaments into- the intercostal muscles, they divide into two orders of twigs. The inner follow the original coiirse of the branch, give ramifications to the intercostales and triangularis sterni, pass under the latter, and emerge by one or two filaments on the sides of the sternum, to be distributed to the pectoralis major, the mamma and the integuments. The outer perforate the external intercostal muscle and separate into two filaments, one of which proceeds backwards into the integuments of the lateral part of the thorax, while the other ramifies in the obli- quus externus and the skin of the abdomen. 1791, Anterior Branches of the Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and JElevefith Dorsal Pairs. They follow the same course as the last; but their division takes place so much nearer the anterior extremity of each intercostal space the lower they arc examined, because it always happens at the same distance from the mtcrvertebral hole, although the spaces aye succcssivqly shortened, The imier tuigs