ORGANS OF SENSATIOxV. 4J2 of the cerebellum, others to the lower surface ; they are not con- founded with each other, and none of them extends round the or- gan. Each lobe of the cerebellum commonly presents from sixty to sixty-five of these laminae, from thirty to thirty-five on its upper surface, and from twenty-four to thirty on the lower. But on se- parating these principal laminae, there are perceived many other similar in form, but smaller and thinner, entirely concealed in the grooves, and covering each other in part. Some of them are very short, and are scarcely a line or two in height; others are larger; but none of them reaches the surface of the cerebellum, and they are all attached by their base to one of the principal convolutions, of which they are in a manner so many ramifications. Chaussier says, that the number of these secondary lamina?, which is always very great, is subject to many individual variations. They would appear generally to amount to six or seven hundred. The principal lamina; themselves, although they are all separat- ed by a groove, unite together to the number of two, three, four, five or six, in such a manner as to divide the surface of the cere- bellum, into fasciculate lobules. These lobules are distinguished from each other by broader and deeper grooves, as well as by the disposition and direction of the laminae ; they are not parallel, but almost all intersect each other at a more or less acute angle. Their number is considerable, there being commonly sixteen, five supe- rior, two posterior, and nine inferior. 1508. Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. Flat, inclined ob- liquely backwards and outwards, and covered by the tentorium ce- rebelli, it presents on its fore and middle part, an elongated pro- minence, (^Processus Vermi/brmis superior), formed by the re- ciprocal crossing of the laminae of which the two lobes or hemi- spheres of the organ are composed. The whole of this upper sur- face is occupied by five fasciculate lobules, common to the two lobes, and disposed in transverse arched bands ; their convexity is directed backwards; they are only flexuous in the median Une, and are nearly of the same form. The first or most anterior, which is of less extent than the other, is more curved than they. Its laminae extend without interruption from one lobe to the other, and are only a little broader in the median line, where they form a pretty considerable prominence. The other four lobules are successively longer and less arched; their laminae seem interrupt- ed along the median line; some of them separate from one to unite with another, or are bent in such a manner as to form a sort of knot; others terminate at the bottom of a groove by an angular slip ; some laminae of the right lobe end on the left, and the re- verse ; other lamellae form in this place, and mingle with the rest during their passage. It is from this disposition that the processus vermiformis, of which we have spoken, results. 1509. Inferior Surface of the Ccrebellnm. It presents a deep tlcprcssion in the median line, named the Valky, which lodges an- teriorly the commencement of the spinal marrow, and is divided