OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. 653 glial artery several twigs which penetrate that muscle. But there also arises from the same place a larger branch, named the S7ih- Ungual Artery, which is sometimes a division of the submental (2314). Directed horizontally forwards between the mylo-hyoideus and genio-glossus, and above the sublingual gland, this artery fuiv nishes a great number of twigs to tliose parts and to the mucous membrane of the mouth. Some of them unite with those of the submental, or of the sublingual artery of the other side. There are some also which pass through the mylo-hyoideus muscle, and arrive at the anterior belly of the digastricus. 2311. Lastly, under the tongue, the lingual artery gives off late- rally a great number of large twigs 'to the hnguaUs and genio- glossus muscles, and the tissue of the tongue, which anastomose with each other, and with those of the opposite side. At the very tip of the tongue, and above the frenum of that organ, the two lincrual arteries, which have assumed the name of mnine, anasto- mose with each other. OF THE FACIAL ARTERY. (Art. Labialis vel Maosillaris vel Angularis Externa.J 2312. It arises from the fore part of the external carotid, above the lingual artery, and behind the digastricus muscle. Its size is considerable. Immediately after its origin, it directs itself almost transversely inwards and forwards; and, after describing several flexuosities, gains the inner part of the angle of the lower jaw, covered in this course by the hypoglossal nerve, the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles and the sub-maxillary gland. It then turns between that gland and the base of the inferior maxillary bone, changes its direction, ascends very obliquely towards the commis- sure of the lips, between the triangularis and masseter muscles, forms a great number of flexuosities, and is covered by the skin and the platysma myoides. Near the free edge of the upper lip, it en- ters under the union of the levator anguli oris and triangularis muscles, and ascends upon the side of the nose, as far as the inner angle of the eye, where it terminates either by anastomosing with the nasal twig of the opthalmic artery or with the infra-orbitar, or by spreading out its twigs in the neighbouring parts. In the se- cond part of its course, the facial artery is separated from the skin by a greater or less quantity of fat, and corresponds successively and posteriorly to the inferior maxillary bone, the buccinator muscle, from which it is separated by a mass of adipose tissue of which we have already repeatedly spoken, the orbicularis oris, leva- tor labii superioris and levator labii superioris alseque nasi. 8