479 OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVES. five principal brandies, which issue from the inferior region of the corresponding pulmonary plexus, and descend over the lateral and posterior parts of the (Esophagus. Before finally uniting, these twigs, at first very distant from each other, have frequent commu- nications together. The cesophageal cord of the left side is constituted by two or three twigs only, which come in the same manner from the left pulmonary plexus. It proceeds upon the anterior side of the (Eso- phagus. The two oesophageal cords frequently communicate together by several filaments, which descend from the right to the left, passing before the oesophagus, and by other more numerous filaments, which descend from the left to the right, proceeding behind that canal. Moreover, both of them give numerous ramifications to its walls, and send filaments over the aorta. Inferiorly, they issue from the thorax by the (Esophageal aperture of the diaphragm (1279). 1712. On entering the abdomen, the right oesophageal cord, which is larger than the left, and closely attached to the right and posterior part of the oesophagus, divides and subdivides so as to form around the cardia a very complicated plexus, the filaments of which are expanded over the stomach and neighbouring organs. The Stomachic Filaments belong to the posterior surface of the fitomach, and direct themselves from the small to the great curva- ture sinkuig into the substance of its walls, and becoming in conse- quence less and less superficial. Some of them run along the small curvature, behind the coro- nary artery of the stomach, communicate with the filaments of the left side, and lose themselves beyond the pylorus. The other filaments throw themselves into the hepatic, splenic, C(Ehac, and right gastro-epiploic plexuses, and are interlaced with the numerous radiations of the solar plexus. Several expand upon the vena portae, or go to the pancreas, duodenum, and gall-bladder. 1713. The left oesophageal cord divides into several longitudinal filaments, which proceed from the cardia to the pylorus along the small curvature of the stomach, and send ramifications over the an- terior surface of that organ. These, like the ramifications of the posterior surface, are at first superficial, and afterwards dive into the substance of the muscular coat. The original filaments, on ar- riving at the pylorus, communicate with those of the right side, or foUow the pyloric artery, to cast themselves into the hepatic plexus. . The pneumo-gastric nerve, on account of its very exten- sive distribution and numerous communications, is by many au- thors called the Middle Sympathetic Nerve. It presents many variations m its secondary divisions, insomuch that it is rare to find It alike m two subjects.