ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. nuchoe, the spinous processes of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebrae, as well as from the interspinal ligaments by which they are connected. All these origins take place by aponeuroses ; that from the occipital bone presents a thin and broad aponeurosis, the fibres of which are frequently more than an inch in length. Along the ligamcntum nuchae the fibres of these aponeuroses are very short; but from the sixth cervical to the third dorsal vertebra inclusive, they acquire considerable size, and form a membrane which represents the half of an ellipse ; they then shorten again, to be elongated a second time at the lower part of the back, where there is observed a triangular and pretty long aponeurosis. The fleshy fibres succeed these aponeuroses ; those Avhich come from the occipital bone and ligamcntum nuchae, descend obliquely out- wards and forwards, turn upon themselves, and terminate at the outer third of the posterior edge of the clavicle ; those which arise from the last cervical vertebra and the upper dorsal are shorter than tlie others, and proceed horizontally outwards, to be attached to the acromion, the acromio-clavicular ligament, and the spine of the scapula, by long aponeurotic fibres, very strong and distinct. All the others, which are the more oblique the lower they are, ascend outwards toward the inner extremity of the spine of the scapula, and there degenerate into a triangular aponeurosis, whose : summit is attached to a small tuberosity; this aponeurosis slides, with the assistance of a very loose cellular tissue, over a bony sur- face of the same form. 802. The posterior surface of this muscle is entirely covered by [ the skin, from which it is separated by a cellular tissue containing j little fat, and denser above than below. The anterior surface is applied, at its upper and inner part, upon the complexus muscle; farther down, upon the splenius, levator anguli scapulae, and ser- ratus posticus superior. At its lower part, it covers the supra-spi- natus, infra-spinatus, rhomboideus, latissimus dorsi, sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi muscles, and the inner extremity of the spine of the scapula. The layer of cellular tissue interposed between it ! and these different parts is in general rather thin, excepting toward j the supra-spinatus muscle. 1 803. When the whole of the trapezius contracts at once, it car- j ries the shoulder and clavicle backwards. Its upper fibres elevate I the tip of the shoulder directly, the lower indirectly. When both f trapezii act together, the two scapulas are brought nearer each other, » and carried backwards. When the shoulder is fixed, it extends ' the head, and inclines it laterally. 804. To dissect the trapezius, a large block is to be put under • the thorax of the subject, whose head and arms should be allowed ' to hang downwards. An incision is to be made through the skin from the external occipital protuberance, along the spinous processes of the vertebra; to the upper part of the loins, and ano- ther incision from this one, and perpendicular to it, opposite the first dorsal vertebra to the acromion. I