OF THE GALL-BLADDER. 791 GALL-BLADUEll. 2905. The Gall-Bladder, {Cystis fellea), is a membraneous, pyriform or ovoidal reservoir, situated in a superficial depression of the under surface of the riglit lobe of the liver. It is placed ob- liquely, so that its large extremity is directed forwards, to the right and downwards, while its summit looks backwards, upwards, and to the left. When the body is upright, or when it lies upon the right side, this inclination is more marked than in any other position. It diminishes, on the contrary, when the stomach and intestines are full. In the gall-bladder there are distinguished a body, a fundus, and a summit or neck. The body adheres above, over a variable extent, to the substance of the liver, through the intervention of a layer of lamellar cellular tissue, and several ramifications of blood vessels, but no biliary ducts are observed to pass from the one to the other of these or- gans, as the older anatomists supposed, when they created the hepato-cystic ducts. Inferiorly, the body of the gall-bladder is free and covered by the peritoneum, which gives it a smooth and polished appearance; it lies, in this direction, upon the pylorus, the commencement of the duodenum, and the right extremity of the arch of the colon. The fundus is rounded, more or less broad in different subjects, and covered in whole or in part by the peritoneum. In general it passes beyond the circumference of the liver, and corresponds to the walls of the abdomen, and to the outer side of the correspond- ing rectus muscle. The neck or smnm'it is a little curved upwards, and very nar- row. It is continued into the cystic duct. 2906. The internal surface of the gall-bladder is almost always tinged with green, from the effect of the bile which it contains \n its cavity. It is rough, reticulated, and plicate, presenting in its whole extent, rounded or polygonal areolae of very variable breadth and depth, and more especially apparent towards its middle. In the vicinity of the neck of the gall-bladder, there are observ- ed several small valvular and prominent folds, to the number of three, four, six or seven, which appear destined to diminish the velocity of the bile in that place.* 2907. The gall-bladder has walls composed of three superim- posed membranes, a serous, a cellular, and a mucous. 2908. Serous Membrane. This membrane belongs only to the free surface of the gall-bladder, and is formed by the peritoneum which is reflected from the lower surface of the liver, and which is continuous with the superior lamina of the gastro-hepatic omentum. -1.7 • This is wliat M. Aiiniswil presented to tlie Koyal Academy of ]\Icdiciiie of Pans, uu the 25th iMaidi us a ^moX valve, a tort of Archimedes' screw.