MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 343 obliquus internus, is inserted into the summits of the spinous pro-- cesscs of the loins. From these different points of attachment, the fleshy fibres pro- ceed horizontally forwards and inwards, towards the deepest lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis, (1252). The middle fibres are the longest; the rest gradually decrease upwards and downwards^ Some of the upper are inserted into the xiphoid cartilage. 1262. The fleshy portion of this muscle is covered externally by the obliquus internus, and, internally, is separated from the peritoneum by the fascia transversalis, the anatomical relations of which are most important; in it exists the opening by which the spermatic vessels pass from within the abdominal cavity, to be lodged in the inguinal canal, previous to their passage through the external inguinal ring. The opening in the fascia has been called the internal ring, it being seated deeper than the other. Between the cartilages of the last three ribs, the transversalis is continuous with the diaphragm; and, near the ensiform cartilage, with the triangularis sterni. The spermatic cord simply glides tinder the lower edge of this muscle, without traversing its fibres, at about an inch from the place where it passes under the obUquus internus. Now, from what we have said of the connexion of this cord with the three muscles of the abdomen, we see that it is lodged in a true canal (inguinal), from two to three inches long, directed obhqviely from the iliac region towards the pubes, the inner extremity of which corresponds to the point where the cord passes through the opening in the fascia transversalis, and the outer to the aperture of the lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis which belongs to the ob- hquus externus. The canal is formed anteriorly by the superficial lamina of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the lower margins of the internal oblique and transversalis; posteriorly by the fascia transversalis, and the aponeurosis to which the two last muscles are attached internally; inferiorly, by Poupart's ligament and Gimbernafs; superiorly, the inguinal canal is bounded by the apposition of its anterior and posterior walls. 1263. The transversalis abdominis contracts the belly, and brings forward the ribs to which it is attached. 1264. The internal oblique is to be removed from the surface of the transversalis, by detaching it from the crest of the ileum, at which place, the line of separation between the two muscles is in- dicated by some branches of the circumflex iliac artery and vein. ■I he body being laid on its side, and raised by a block put under It, between the ileum and ribs, the dissector now proceeds to raise the internal oblique, by dissecting transversely in the direction of the fibres of the transversaUs. Olf THE RECTUS AnnOMINIS. 12G,5. This is a long, flat, and pretty thick muscle, broader