430 ORGANS OF SENSATION. By their junction, these three productions appear to constitute common trunk, in tlie middle of which is a kind of elongated ovoi^ dal nucleus, circumscribed on all sides by a very distinct undulat ed line of a yellowish colour. This is the Corpus dentatum o. serratum. It is a Uttle nearer the upper than the lower surface o: the crus, and appears slightly compressed. Its tissue is firmer thar that of the rest of the cerebellum; it is surmounted by severa points, and traversed by some vessels ; its colour is a little deepe: than that of the ordinary gray substance. It is only seen with grea difficulty in children. The white fibres cannot be traced into iti interior, as in the optic thalami; and it seems to be isolated liki the nucleus of the corpora olivaria (1528). 1553. To the outside of the crura of the cerebellum, there an seen the lobe of the pneumogastric nerve (1509), and the trunk of the portio dura and portio mollis of the seventh pair. Internally that is to say, between the two prolongations which ascend from th restiform bodies, there is found the Ventricle of the Cerebellum o| Fourth Ventricle, formed at once by the cerebellum, the cerebri protuberance, and the medulla oblongata. Its anterior wall formed by the posterior surface of the latter, and presents the C lamus scriptorius, transverse white strije, and the posterior orifi^ of the aqueduct of Sylvius (1513). Its lateral walls are limited b the prolongations which come from the tubercula quadrigemina an corpora restiformia, which separate from each other as they ascen so that the ventricle is broader above than below. Its posteri wall is shorter than the others, and is formed by a part of the a terior notch of the cerebellum. Its upper extremity is closed I the valvula Vieussenii (1513). Its lower extremity is also closer but by a dense and strong membrane, of a grayish colour, appea: ing to be continuous with the pia mater ; the latter forms beneati| it a small fold resembling the tela choroidea. There also occurs this place a small mass of blood-vessels and reddish granulatiom which is called the Choroid Plexus of the Fourth Ventricle; forms a small three-lobed body, the middle lobe of which projects the ventricle, while the two lateral, which are smaller and roundei occupy the sides of the fissure which separates the cerebellum fr( the cerebral protuberance. Between these two portions, at the extremity of the middle bule of the cerebellum, in the substance of the fold of the pia m ter, is a small conical tubercle, the Laminar Tubercle of ti Fourth Ventricle, the summit of which is composed of sever transverse and parallel lamina?, while its base is connected with tl substance of the cerebellum by a peduncle. Moreover, on ea< side, it sends to the lobular appendage of the cerebellum (1509) I membraneous fold, in the interior of which is a lamma of whi r substance, and of which the outer edge is concave, free and floatin This tubercle has a great resemblance to the pineal gland. j 1554. Each of the crura having arrived at the centre of t corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, forms an elongat