PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 1G2 OF THE SECOND OR MIDDLE PHALANGES OF THE TOES. (Phalanges Medice.) 536. They are very short, and of a cubical form : the great toe has none. Their upper surface is convex in the transverse direction, concave from before backwards, and corresponds to the tendons of the extensor digitorum pedis. The inferior surface, ■which is uneven and concave, gives attachment to the tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral edges are concave from before backwards, and give attach?nent to the fibrous sheaths of the tendons of the flexor muscles. Their Posterior Extremity presents a concave articular surface, of which the greatest diameter is transverse, which is marked, in its middle part, with a verti- cal prominence; it is articulated with the condyles of the first phalanges. Their Anterior Extremity becars two small condyles, somewhat less prominent than those of the anterior extremity of the first phalanges. OF THE THIBD, EXTKEMK OR DISTAL PHALANGES. (Phalanges Unguium.) 537. The third or extreme phalanges are all very small; that of the great toe is much larger than the rest; their form is some- what pyramidal. Their Body, of which the superior and inferior surfaces are concave from before backwards, and convex in the transverse direction, gives attachment at its upper and posterior part to the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum, and sus- tains the nail at its upper and fore part. Inferiorly, it presents at the back part a tubercle, which receives the insertion of the ten- don of the flexor communis perforans. Their Posterior Extre- mity or Base is much larger than the anterior ; in other respects, it is similar to that of the second phalanges. The Anterior Extre- mity or Summit is fungiform, rounded, tubercular, and is con- nected with the pulp of the toes. 5-38. Structure, Development, and Articulations. The first phalanges of the toes are similar to those of the fingers, with re- spect to their composition and mode of growth ; but the second and third are only formed of cellular tissue, invested by a thin layer of compact tissue, and are only developed by two, and sometimes by a single point of ossification, on account of their smallncss. When there are two of these points, the one occupies the posterior extremity, the other the body. The anterior extremity does not present an epiphysis. The first phalanges articulate with the me- tatarsal bones and the second phalanges ; the latter with the first