ORGANS OF CIKCULATION. 066 pair and the rectus externus muscle of the eye. It then ascends on the outer side of the optic nerve, passes above it crossing its direction obliquely from -without inwards, being covered by tlie rectus superior oculi muscle, and becomes horizontal a second time to pass forwards, along the inner edge of the nerve, between the obliquus superior and rectus internus muscles of the eye, as far as the internal angle of the orbit, where it ends by dividing in- to two branches. Branches which the Ophthalmic Artery gives off* before ascending upon the Optic Nerve. 2360. The LachrTjmal Artery. It is one of the largest branches of the ophthalmic artery, from which it separates immediately af- ter its entrance into the orbit, to glide, between the outer wall of that cavity and abductor oculi muscle, as far as the lachrymal gland, into which it enters. At its commencement, it gives some ramifications to the abductor oculi, attollens oculura, depressor oculi and levator palpebrae superioris muscles, the periosteum of the orbit and the envelopes of the optic nerve: sometimes it also gives rise to the posterior ethmoidal artery. Close to the la- chrymal gland, it furnishes some small twigs to the periosteum and abductor oculi muscle, and gives off" a small branch which de- scends backwards and outwards, and presently bifurcates, so that one of its twigs loses itself in the periosteum of the orbit, whUe the other passes through the malar bone, arrives in the temjjoral fossa, and anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal artery (2348). 2361. Arrived at the lachrymal gland, the artery passes above it, or surrounds it with a vascular net-work. In all cases, it sends a great number of twigs into its parenchyma. At the same time there arise from it two twigs, the External Palpebral, one of which, the inferior, passes under the gland to gain the orbicularis palpe- brarum muscle, where it anastomoses by an arch, upon the lower edge of the corresponding tarsal fibro-cartilage, with ramifications of the inferior palpebral and superficial temporal arteries; while the other, or superior, passes over the gland, and is distributed in the same manner in the vipper eyelid. 2362. Beyond the gland, the lachrymal artery loses itself in mi- nute twigs in the two eyelids and in the tunica conjunctiva. 2363. Sometimes the lachrymal artery comes off' from the mid- dle meningeal. In that case, after giving a twig to the dura mater, it enters into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. 2364. The Central Artery of the Retina. Excessively slender, it comes off" from the ophthalmic artery, a little after the preced- ing, or sometimes from one of the ciliary arteries. It per- forates obliquely, and at a greater or less distance from the ball of