PliELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 5 in "-cneral (tela cellulosa intermedia seu lacca) ; surrounds all the ort^ans (tela cellulosa strictaJ ; penetrates into their interstices (t'ela cellulosa stipataj, and is the basis of all (tela cellulosa or- ganica seu parenchymalis), serving in one sense to unite, and in another to separate them. a. The Adipose Tissue is an aggregation of microscopic vesi- cles, grouped together in greater or less numbers, and connected to each other by laminar cellular tissue. It serves as a reservoir for the fat. B. The Membranes, (Membrance) are broad, thin^ and soft organs, composed of fibres or laminae variously aggregated. They line the different cavities of the body, surround many of the visce- ra, and often serve to facilitate their motions. Their structure com- prehends many vessels of different orders, and frequently nerves. The membranes are divided into serous, mucous, and fibrous^ which are again subdivided; the former into the splanchnic se- rous membranes and the synovial membranes; the second into the mucous membranes properly so called and the skin, whilst the third, by its combination with the two former, constitutes the Jibro- se?'OM« and Jibro-mucous membranes. C. The Vessels, (Fasa) are canals which divide and subdivide into branches, are moi;p or less elastic, and are formed by the super- position of different membranes. They are distinguished according to their uses and general disposition into Arteries, Veins, and Lym- phatic Vessels.* The Arteries, (Arteries) after leaving the heart, proceed in a radiating manner from the centre to the circumference, and are distributed through all parts of the body, whither they carry the blood which has undergone the changes operated upon it by respi- ration.j- The Veins, (Vencs) in general, aris^from the last ramuscules of the arteries, unite together so as to form trunks of greater or less size, and proceeding from the circumference to the centre, pour in- to the heart the blood which they have collected from the whole system. Besides being much more numerous, the veins are more capacious than the arteries. Their walls are semitransparent and much thinner than those of the arteries, which are opaque, thick, and of a yellowish colour. Their internal cavity presents, at inter- yals, valves which are folded projections of the inner membrane, intended to support the blood, so as to obviate the effect of gravity upon it. In this circumstance the veins differ much from the arteries. cularly the Germans, because they think it is nothing but a kind of jnucus, and that Its cellular appearance is owing to the way it is examined. _ n e may also consider as vessels the Excretory Duels (Ductus ExcrcloriiJ, which, arising from the glandular organs, transmit outwards, or into particular reservoirs, the fluid secreted by them. t The pulmonary artery conveys to the lungs the dark or venous blood which has already circulated in the body.