DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 291 "hich descends vertically on the side of the pharynx, sending some bras to the thyroid cartilage, and intermingling with the stylo- haryngfEus, lower, and middle constrictors of the pharynx. It is reader than the middle portion. 1049. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the lembrane of the velum palati, and by the levator palati mollis ■ bove; by the constrictors of the pharynx below. The anterior 'trface is in contact with the aponeurosis of the circumflexus pa- iti above, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx below. 1050. When the two muscles act together, they lower the velum alati, while at the same time they raise and shorten the pharynx, t is in deglutition that they principally act. OF THE CONSTRICTOR ISTHMI FAUCIPM. 1051. This is a small fleshy cord, very thin, somewhat flattened, nd rather irregular, which is situated in the anterior pillar of the ielum palati, between the membrane of the palate and constric- ■)rpharyngis superior, before the tonsil. Its lower extremity loses ;self in the base of the tongue. The upper, which is narrower, is acorporated, in the velum palati, with the palato-pharyngeus and -ircumflexus palati muscles. This muscle lowers the velum palati, >-nd raises the base of the tongue. 1052. Dissection. To expose the muscles of the velum palati, he pharynx should be slit up behind, and detached from the basi- ir process of the occipital bone. Clean the surfaces thus exposed, nd then remove the mucous membrane: from the posterior surface f the velum palati, to show the azygos uvulae; from the posterior art of the pterygoid processes for the circumflexus and levator pa- iti, the former of which is to be traced round the hamular process ato the substance of the velum; from the posterior pillar of the auces for the palato-pharyngeus, aiid from the anterior pillar for he constrictor isthmi faucium. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE NECK. OF THE XONGUS COLLI. 1053. The Longus Colli is a flat, narrow, elongated muscle, )roadcr below than above, and in the middle than at the extremi- •les, lying on the anterior and lateral part of the bodies of the ver- ebra;, from the atlas to the third dorsal vertebra inclusive. Ft is 1?^*^° fasciculi which are in a manner superimposed upon •ach other: one of these is superior, directed obliquely outwards, extended trom the anterior tubercle of the atlas, where it takes its