ORGANS OF SENSATION. 4.50 1615. There is observed between the three roots of the olfacto nerve a portion of the white substance of the brain, entirely bai > at the inferior substance of the cerebrum, and perforated wii a great number of more or less vertical holes for the passage of sm; arteries, so that these roots are in a manner surrounded and peii trated by vessels. 1616. At the place of their union, the nerve presents a tria. gular bulging. It soon becomes flattened, contracts, and direc itself horizontally forwards under the anterior lobe of the brai being situated in a groove, which conceals its gray portion, a prevents it from being compressed upon the bones of the base the cranium. This groove, which we have already describ (1506), is always prolonged farther forwards than the extremity the nerve, and much deeper at its middle part than at its t extremities. The inferior surface of the nerve, which presents ven longitudinal striae, of which, three are cineritious and four whi is covered by the arachnoid membrane. It is manifestly flatten while the upper surface presents a prominent ridge which penetra into the groove; a disposition which makes the nerve appear as inclosed in a canal, the upper part of which is formed by t' groove of the brain, and the lower by the arachnoid membrane. As it advances, the olfactory nerve proceeds a little inwards, as to. approach its fellow, and to be only separated from it by t crista galli; its prismatic form also changes insensibly, so that does not present an equally triangular section in aU its extent, rests posteriorly upon the upper surface of the body of the sp' noid bone, and anteriorly upon the ethmoid groove, where it comes larger, and forms a bulb {hulhus olfactorius), more roun before than behind, which contains much gray substance. During this course, the olfactory nerve, which is someti larger on the right side than on the left, is soft and pulpy, and enveloped by a neurilema. 1617. It is from the inferior surface of the bulb which fills ethmoid groove, that the branches which pass through the ap tures of the cribriform plate to the nasal fossae, proceed. T vary much in their number, form, and direction. Frequently largest holes receive two or three ; but they may always be d tinguished into external, internal and middle. 1618. Their number differs much in dift'erent subjects ; son- times they are very small and numerous, while at other tini they are very few in number, and large. Each of them is c braced by a small funnel-shaped fibrous canal furnished by 1 dura mater, which stops short a little beyond the hole, and ■ continued into the outer layer of the pituitary membrane. Ti' are also enveloped by the arachnoid membrane, which adhci loosely to them, and leaves them, after a short passage, to be • fleeted upon the fibrous canal and to enter the cranium, formin * kind of cul-de-sac. A gray, transparent lamina, and tlie pia )