ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 225 wards from the summit of the malleolus intcrnus and its depression, to the inner part of the astragalus and calcancum, sending also some fibres to the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the fiexor longus dif^itorum pedis. Its inner stirface is covered by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; the outer is invested by the synovial mem- brane. 738. External Lateral Ligament (Liffarnentum malleoli ecvter- ni medium perpendiculare). This ligament is round, narrow, very strong, and of great length ; it arises from the summit of the malleolus externus, descends vertically to be inserted into the up- per and middle part of the outer surface of the calcaneum. It is covered by the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, and covers part of the synovial membrane. 739. Anterior Peroneo-tarsal Ligament (Ligamentum malleoli externi anteriiis). Attached to the fore part, and near the sum- mit, of the malleolus externus, smaller than the preceding, some- times divided into two fasciculi, but always regular and quadrila- teral, with close and very strong fibres, this ligament passes ob- liquely forwards to be inserted into the anterior edge of the exter- nal articular surface of the astragalus. 740. Posterior Peroneo-tarsal Ligament (L^igamentum mal- leoli externi posterius). It passes obliquely downwards and in- wards from the depression which exists behind the external mal- leolus, to the posterior part of the astragalus, towards the outer edge of the groove of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis. Its fibres are numerous, and are divided into distinct fasciculi. 741. Tibio-tarsal Ligament, {Ligamentum anterius internum). This is an assemblage of some irregular fibres, which do not form a distinct fascicukis, immersed in adipose cellular tissue, and co- vered by the tendons of the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pol- licis, and extensor communis digitorum. They descend obliquely from within outwards, from the anterior part of the tarsal extremi- ty of the tibia, to the fore part of the articular pulley of the astra- galus. 742. Synovial Membrane. Of all the membranes of this de- scription, this always contains the greatest quantity of synovia. It extends over the cartilaginous surfaces of the fibula and tibia, and ascends between these two bones into their inferior articula- tion (731)- It is prolonged on the interior of the two malleoli, lines the ligament which we have described, and is reflected up- on the lateral articular surfaces, and over the cartilaginous pul- ley of the astragalus. It is very loose anteriorly and posterior- ly, where it is in contact with a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. AUTICULATION OF THE AST]lAOALUS WITH THE CAI-CANKUM. 743. The inferior surface of the astragalus is articulated by