THE ETHMOID BONE. 43 of the bone, 'with the exception of most of those of the second or- der, which are tifue Jbr^mina, with a vertical or oblique direction. Anteriorly to each of the olfactory channels, at the very base of tlic process, is a small longitudinal fissure, which is traversed by the internal branch of the nasal nerve. 132. More externally, there is observed on either side a qua- drilateral tortuous surface, hollowed with several half cellules, which are completed by corresponding portions of cellules, formed on the edges of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, or by thin la- mina, belonging to the ethmoid bone itself. In the latter case, however, there is always one before, w^hich remains open to meet the frontal sinuses. In the spaces between the cellules, are seen, two narrow transverse grooves, which are converted by the frontal bone into canals, the external orifices of which have received the name internal orbital holes {foramina orhitaria interna). 133. Naml or Infei-ior Aspect. I'his is covered throughout its whole extent by the pituitary membrane, and is so disposed that it can only be entirely seen after dividing the bone into two longitudinal portions. This aspect, the circumference of which is quadrilateral, is broader behind than before. In its middle part, it presents a vertical plate, having a longitu- dinal direction, frequently deflected to one side, irreguhirly qua- drilateral, and varying in extent: this is the Perpendicular Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, {Lamina Perpendicularis). It forms part of the septum of the nasal fossfe, and is placed at right angles to the cribriform plate. On its lateral surfaces, which are covered by the pituitary membrane, it is marked by vascular and nervous impres- sions. Below, it is terminated by a blunt edge, which is articu- lated with the vomer and the triangular cartilage of the nose ; an- teriorly, by a margin thicker above than below, which in the former direction is connected with the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and in the latter, with the nasal bones ; posteriorly, by another margin, which is thin and sharp, and is articulated with the septum of the sphenoidal sinuses (119) ; above, it is confounded with the cribri- form plate. In its upper part, the perpendicular plate is traversed by the internal olfactory canals (131), which are short and oblique before, vertical and elongated in the middle, very long, and inclined backwards posteriorly ; they at last degenerate into mere grooves, and never descend lower than half the height of the plate. They are seen terminating by numerous apertures, having an oblique form. 134. On each side of the perpendicular plate, a deep narrow groove, more contracted before than behind, and frequently larger on one side than the other, leads to beneath the olfactory canals, (131), and is limited externally by a very uneven surface, which presents various objects for examination. On the posterior and Jippcr part of this surface, there is observed a small thin plate, bent upon itself from above downwards, and most commonly from within outwards. This is the siqjerior turbinated hone {Concha