OIIGAMS or UESPIllATION. 6^6 sternum, and the point wlience we Iiave considered tliem as setting out, intercepting between them a space not parallel to the ster- num, but inclined from above downwards and from right to left, broader below than above, very narrow at its middle part, and re- presenting a kind of cross, of which the lower branches are more widely separated than the upper. This space, which is commonly named the Anterior Mediastinum, lodges the thymus gland above, and is filled below with cellular tissue, which communicates with that of the abdomen through a separation of the fibres of the diaphragm, on the sides of the ensiform cartilage (I277.) On leaving the anterior part of the mediastinum, the pleurte cover the intei-nal mammary vessels and a certain number of lymphatic ganglia. 2219. The degree of adhesion which the plevirae contract with the subjacent organs is not the same in their whole extent. They are easily detached from the sternum, ribs, intercostal muscles, and sides of the vertebral colvnnn, but are united in a more inti- mate manner to the svirface of the lungs, although there exists be- tween them and the parenchyma of the organ a kind of rather dense membrane, formed of celkdar tissue. They are connected in a loose manner with the anterior and posterior parts of the lateral surfaces of the pericardium, but on their middle region, and oppo- site the pulmonary vessels, they adhere with extreme firmness. 2220. The inner surface of the pleura? is smooth, pohshed, moistened by a serous fluid, and free of all adhesion in the natural state ; those which are frequently observed upon it, being always the effect of some disease. By boiling, they lose their transpa- rency, and acquire an opaque opaline tint. On the sides of the diaphragm, they present small adipose appendages, similar to those which we have described as occurring on the large intestine (2197)t and they are a little thicker at the posterior surface of the chest than at the anterior. 2221. The arteries of the pleurjE come from the intercostal, in- ternal mammary, phrenic, inferior thyroid, thymic, pericardiac, and bronchial arteries. The veins exactly correspond to the ar- teries. A prodigious quantity of lymphatics is perceived in these membranes; but no nervous filaments have yet been traced in them. ■ OF THE AKRTFEROtJS CANALS OF THE^LUNGS, Oil THE TRACHEA AND BROKCHI. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2222. The Trachea * or Windpipe, (Aspera. Arteria,) is a cylindrical, cartilaginous and membraneous tube, a little flattened Tfax^oi aflvfk of tlic Grccks.