MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 1068. Between the two scaleni there, is commonly found a small Ifleshy bundle which proceeds from the upper edge of the first rib, bto the transverse processes of the seventh and sixth vertebrae, or Cthat of the seventh only. It is placed behind the subclavian artery, wnd before the anterior branches of the two last cervical nerves. TThis is the scalenus minimus of Soemmering. 1069. The anterior side of the scalenus posticus corresponds to ttie preceding muscle, from which it is separated below by the sub- cdavian artery, and above by the anterior branches of the cervical merves. The posterior side, which is very narrow, is in connexion mith the sacro-lumbaUs, transversalis coh, splenius, and levator an- ^uli scapulae. The inner covers the first external intercostal mus- ccle at its lower part, and at the upper, the summits of the last six ttransverse processes of the neck, and between them the posterior iintertransversales muscles. Lastly, the outer side, which is broad Ibelow, and narrow above, is covered by the serratus magnus below ; iin the middle, by the transverse cervical artery, the skin, a great 1 number of lymphatic ganglia, and nervous filaments of the cervical ]plexus; at its upper part, by the sterno-mastoideus muscle. 1070. This muscle has the same uses as the scalenus anticus, I but draws the vertebral column a little backwards. 1071. The upper part of the scaleni may be exposed at the I same time as the preceding muscles, but their lower part cannot be shown until the clavicle has been removed. MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. or THE PECTORALIS MAJOR. 1072. The Pectoralis major is a very large, flat muscle, of a tri- angular form, with rounded angles, much narrower and thicker externally than internally. It is situated at the fore part of the tho- rax, and before the axilla. It arises from the inner half of the cla- vicle, from the anterior surface of the sternum, the cartilages of the true ribs, excepting the first, and over an extent so much the larger the lower these attachments are, from a smaU part of the bony portion of the fifth rib, and lastly, from an aponeurosis which forms a continuation of that of the abdomen. 1073. The part which arises from the clavicle is attached to that bone by short aponeurotic fibres; but, upon the sternum, there are observed longer aponeuroses, which are thin, with loose radiat- ing fibres, interlaced with those of the opposite muscle. At the iowest part, the insertions of the pectoralis major are intermixed with the obliquus abdominis externus, and sometimes with the rectus. 1074. Succeeding these different aponeurotic attachments, which aescribe internally a sort of curved line of great extent, the fleshy hbres approach each other, proceeding outwards, and following a fiitterent direction. Those of the clavicle, which are the shortest,