631 OF THE THYMUS GLAND. i cava superior, the .irch of the aorta, and the pericardium. Antc- r riorly, it is covered by the upper part of the sternum and by the 1 lower part of the sterno-thyroidei muscles. Its edges arc in contact with the pleura? below. Its upper extremity is divided by a notch into two portions, of which the right is generally thicker and longer than the left. Its inferior extremity, which is larger, is also notch- ed, and presents the same relation between its two portions. These two notches are continued into each other, by a groove which pre- vails along the anterior surface of the thymus gland. 2235. This organ is enveloped by a. very thin cellular capsule, which sends prolongations into its interior, and thus divides its soft yellowish or whitish parenchyma into lobules of unequal size, in each of which there are distinguished several vesicles filled with a milky and slightly viscous fluid, and appearing to communicate with each other in the whole extent of the organ. No excretory duct has been discovered for it, but it is traversed by blood-vessels and lymphatics. Its arteries, although of a small size, are pretty numerous. They arise from the inferior thyroid, internal mammary, bronchial, mediastinal and pericardiac arteries. The veins precisely correspond to the arteries. It receives some nervous filaments from the pneumo-gastric and phrenic (1737) nerves, and from the inferior cervical ganglia. ARTICLE THIRD. ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. OF THE HEART AND ITS ENVELOPES OR OF THE CENTRAL ORGAN OF CIRCULATION. OF THE PEllICARDIUM.* 2236. The Pericardium is a membraneous bag which envelopes the heart and the arterial and venous trunks which issue from, or enter into, it. It is lodged in the inferior separation of the ante- rior mediastinum, above the central aponeurosis of the diaphragm, to which it is strongly united. Its form is, at first sight, that of a cone, with the base directed downwards and a little to the left, while the .summit looks upwards, backwards and to the right; but when freed of the fat in which it is, as it were, immersed, and ex- tricated from the laminse of the mediastinum, it is found to be ex- * riij;, circa ; K«{'ia, cur"