OF THE SCAPULA. and is flat and thin over tlie greater part of its extent; it is divided into the following parts. 424. Posterior or Dorsal Aspect. It is divided transversely into two parts by a flat, triangular eminence, situated about its up- per third, named the Spine, (spina scapulcB). This spine is li- mited posteriorly by a long, uneven, rough and undulated margin, ■which projects downwards at its commencement, where it is broad and thick. Near the inner edge of the scapula, it presents a smooth and polished triangvJar space, on which the aponeurosis of the trapezius slides; in the rest of its extent, it affords attachment at its upper and middle parts to the trapezius, and below to the deltoid. Externally, the spine of the scapula is terminated by a thick and short concave edge, which by its union with the former, gives rise to a considerable eminence named the Acromion.* This process is flattened in a direction contrary to that of the spine, of wliich it is the termination, and which contracts a little before pro- ducing it. Its outer surface, which is directed upwards and back- wards, is convex and uneven, and is covered by the skin. The inner surface is smooth and concave, and inclines downwards and forwards. Its tipper edge, which is directed inwards, gives attach- ment to the trapezius, and presents anteriorly a small oval surface, covered with cartilage, with which the outer extremity of the cla- vicle is connected. The lower edge is uneven, and gives attach- ment to some fibres of the deltoid muscle. Lastly, its summit, which is rounded, affords insertion to the acromio-coracoid liga- ment. 425. Above the spine of the scapula is observed a slightly con- cave surface, broad internally, narrow externally, filled by the su- pra-spinatus muscle, which attaches itself to its two inner thirds: this is the Fossa Supra-spinata. 426. Under the spine is the Fossa Infra-spinata, which is much larger than the preceding, somewhat prominent in the middle, but pretty concave outwards. There is observed upon it a longitudinal ridge, which gives insertion to an aponeurosis, common to the in- fra-spinatus, teres major and minor muscles. Between this ridge, and the axillary edge of the scapula is a long surface, broader below than above, divided into two parts by another ridge, which descends from that edge, and joins the preceding at an acute angle ; the upper and narrow portion of this surface gives attachment to the teres minor; the lower, to the teres major. ■ Lastly, the whole fossa infra-spinata is filled by the infra-spinatus muscle, which is inserted into its three inner fourths. . 427. Anterior or Costal Aspect. This is inclined inwards, and IS concave for the purpose of lying upon the ribs, forming what is called the Subscapular Fossa, (fossa suhscapularisJ. It is di- vided by more or less prominent ridges, running obliquely from aoove downwards, and from without inwards, into several broad " Ax^rLfim, summa scapula, Akods, surnmrn; Zf/.of scapula.