402 ORGANS OF THE VOICE. part of one of the cartilages to the same part on that of the oppo- site side. Certain oblique fibres may sometimes be followed in tlie substance of the mucous membrane, as far as the sides of the epi- glottis : they have been designated by some authors under the name of Aryteno-epiglottidei. Its posterior surface is invested b) the membrane of the pharynx, while the anterior is applied upoi; that of the larynx, and upon the arytenoid cartilages. Of the Mucous Memhrcme and Glands of the Larynx. OF THE COURSE QF THE MUCOUS MEMBKANE OF THE LARYNX. 1487- This membrane is continuous, at its upper part, in an ob- vious manner, with that which invests the interior of the mouth, and below, with that which lines the trachea and bronchi. Com- mencing at the base of the tongvie, it proceeds at first over the anterior surface of the epiglottis, where it forms three folds, which have erroneously been considered as ligaments. Of these folds, the middle one, which is more distinct than the others, ascends towards the summit of the fibro-cartilage, and is stretched when the epiglottis is depressed, while those which are upon tlie sides lose themselves on the edge of the epiglottis, and appear loose in all cases. Arrived at the circumference of this fibro-cartilage, the membrane of the larynx is reflected from above downwards ovet its posterior surface, lines it without forming folds, and penetrates into the larynx; but on the sides when it leaves the circumference, is applied upon itself so as to form, on either side, a fold which proceeds directly to each of the arytenoid cartilages, covering a part of the thyro-arytenoidei muscles. It is then continued back- wards and outwards into the membrane of the pharynx, and pene- trates inwards into the larynx. Towards the base of the arytenoid cartilages, it forms, on either side, another fold, which proceeds horizontally forwards towards the retiring angle of the thyroid car- tilage ; farther down, it lines a depression which is named the ven- tricle of the larynx {ventriculus laryngis) ; and still lower, it em- braces the thyro-arytenoid ligament, under which it covers the in- ternal surface of the cricoid cartilage and crico-thyroid membrane. OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. 1488. This membrane is of a rose colour, very different from the deep red tint which the mucous membrane of the mouth pre- sents. Although it is soft, spongy, continually moistened, and highly vascular, its tissue is yet in general very firm; this is espe- cially evident in the places where it is in contact with the carti- lages ; for there it is intimately united with their perichondrium.