PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 3 acted on by alcohol of 0.81, it is converted into a kind of adipo- cire, which has a strong and disagreeable smell. By strong acetic acid it is changed into a jelly, and by the action of nitric acid on it, a quantity of nearly pure nitrogen is given off; weak alkalies dissolve without decomposing it. It enters very largely into the composition of the blood, and forms nearly the whole of the muscles. It is also met with in the chyle and in the humour exhaled from the internal surface of the serous membranes. 9. Fat or oil exists in almost every part of the body of animals, varying however in its physical properties, being sometimes fluid, sometimes solid, at one time white, at another coloured, but always unctuous to the touch, destitute of smell, of a mild taste, so as to be nearly insipid, insoluble in water, and lighter than that fluid. It melts at a rather low temperature, frequently at 66° F. for ex- ample, and takes fire at a high temperature, becoming at the same time decomposed. With alkalies it forms soap, and is converted into a mild principle called glycerine, and into margaric and oleic acids. M. Chevreul has shown that all the fats are composed of two immediate principles, stearine and elaine. 10. Mucus is a viscid, ropy, transparent fluid, without smell and of a saltish taste. It is soluble in water, insoluble in alcohol, frothing in the former of these fluids by agitation in the air, does not possess the property of forming a jelly, and is incapable of being coagulated, but is easily dried by heat. It is precipitated by chlorine, alcohol, and subacetate of lead, but is not so either by tannin or corrosive sublimate. It occurs at the surface of the mu- cous membranes, in the synovia, the urine, the hair, the nails, the seminal fluid, &c. 11. The organic elements variously combined with one another, and with certain of the inorganic elements or elementary bodies pro- perly so called, such as phosphorus, iron, &c. give rise to the fluids and so/ids constituting the general mass of the body, which conti- nually acting and re-acting upon each other, exist in a state of es- sentially mutual dependence and connexion. _ The fluids constitute the greater part of the organs, their quan- tities varying, however, according to circumstances. It is very difiicult to determine their relative amount, but in general the pro- portion which they bear to the solids is as nine or six to one: thus, a fresh carcass which weighs about 120 lbs. does not weigh more than 12 lbs. when thoroughly dried ; even the bones have only a third of their weight of solid matter. The fluids are contained either m vessels, in areolar and spongy tissues, or in reservoirs; as 18 the case, for example, with the blood, the serous fluid of the cellular tissue, the bUe, the seminal fluid, the chyle, the vitreous humour, &c. P if' '^^t ^''^^^^ ^^'^ consistence to the different parts ot the body. Their particles are interwoven in various ways, on Tvhich account the name of tecvticre is apphed to their structure.