281 MUSCLES OF THE NECK. OF THE STERNO-THYROIDEUS. 997- This muscle, which is of the same form as the preceding, and situated behind it, but a little shorter and broader, arises from the upper part of the internal svirface of the sternum, opposite the cartilage of the second rib, whence it ascends, directing itself a httle outwards, and contracting, to the thyroid cartilage, on the obhque ridge of which it terminates by short aponeuroses. It also sometimes presents, at its lower part, an oblique or transverse apon- eurotic intersection. 998. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, stemo-mastoideus, and orao-hyoideus muscles. The posterior covers the subclavian and internal jugular veins, the trunk of the carotid artery, the trachea, the thyroid body and its vessels, the crico-thyroideus muscle, and a part of the constrictor pharyngis inferior. 999- It acts upon the thyroid cartilage in the same manner as the preceding muscle upon the hyoid bone. 1000. It is exposed by the removal of the preceding. OF THE THYE.0-HY0IDEUS. (Hyo-thyroideus.) ^ 1001. It is of a quadrilateral form, very short and thin, and situated at the middle and fore part of the neck upon the larynx. It is often continuous with the preceding by its lower edge, which is attached to the obUque ridge of the thyroid cartilage, and consequently inchned downwards and inwards. It ascends from thence parallel to the muscle of the opposite side, and terminates at the lower edge of the body of the hyoid bone, and at the anterior half of the outer edge of its great horn. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoideus, omo-hyoideus, and platysma my- oides. The posterior lies upon the thyroid cartilage and the thyro- hyoid membrane. Its use is to bring the larynx and hyoid bone toward each other. OF THE DIGASTRICUS.* (Biventer MawillcB.') 1002. This muscle is situated on the lateral, upper and anterior parts ot the neck, beneath the under jaw. It is thick and fleshy at Its extremities, slender and tendinous at the middle, where it is • A<(, duo; yarl^Q, venter i two-bellled.