612 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. membrane, the peritoneum being only applied upon it in a small portion of its extent. It is to this partial deficiency of the perito- neal coat that the intestine owes the faculty of dilating to such a degree as almost to equal the stomach in size. 2173. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is pretty thick ; all its fibres are transverse or circular, and have a great similarity to those of the stomach. The layer of dense and solid cellular tissue which unites it to the mucous membrane was called the Nervous Coat by the older anatomists. 2174. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is reddish, very soft, spongy, villous, and as if downy. It is of its reduplication that the valvulae conniventes are formed. It possesses all the charac- ters of the internal membrane of the stomach, and is truly continu- ous with it (2160). Between it and the preceding coat, there is observed a great quantity of flattened mucous follicles, the orifices of which are more visible than in the stomach. 2175. The arteries of the duodenum are very numerous, and come from the superior mesenteric, pyloric, pancreatic, and gastro- epiploic arteries. Its veins exactly correspond to the arteries. Its lacteals and lymphatics go to the ganglia situated above the pan- creas. Its nerves come from the solar plexus (1914). Of the Small Intestine. CONFOEMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2176. The Small Intestine (Intestinum tenueJ, in which the duodenum terminates, is the longest portion of the digestive canal. It forms a general great curve, of which the concavity is connected with the mesentery, while the convexity is free and floating, and it is moreover folded upon itself in different directions a great number of times, which produces turns to which the name of convolutions is given. 2177- these convolutions, of which the convexity is directed forwards, and whose concavity faces backwards towards the verte- bral column, are placed close together, and constitute a consider- able mass, which occupies, in the abdomen, the umbiUcal and hy- pogastric regions, and a portion of the lumbar and iliac regions, as well as of the excavation of the pelvis. This mass is circumscrib- ed on all sides by the large intestines, that is to say, superiorly, by the transverse mesocolon and arch of the colon which separate it from the stomach, the pancreas, the liver and the spleen ; to the right, by the coecum and ascending colon ; to the left, by the de- scending colon and the sigmoid flexure. 2178. The small intestine commences under the superior mesen- teric vessels, on the left side of the transverse mesocolon, and ter- minates in the right iliac region, opening into the coecum. There