216 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. bottom, where one of the so called synovial glands is situated. This articulation is furnished with a synovial membrane, a cap- sular ligament, an inter-articular ligament, and a cotyloid liga- ment. 706. Capsular Ligament. {Memhrana capsularis femoris). This is the strongest, thickest, and largest of the capsular liga- ments. It embraces the whole articulation, and extends downwards and outwards, from the margin of the cotyloid cavity to the base of the neck of the femur. It is not so loose as the capsular hga- ment of the humerus, to which it has in many respects a great re- semblance ; nor is it perforated by a tendon. Its thickness is very considerable, especially at the fore and upper part, where it is strengthened by a fibrous band which descends from the anterior and inferior spine of the os innominatum, incorpoi-ates with the cap- sule, and terminates at the anterior line of the base of the neck of the femur, becoming much broadened. The inner and posterior parts of this ligament are the thinnest. Internally, these fibres are often sufficiently separated from each other to allow the synovial membrane to be seen between them, although in this direction they are strengthened by some detached fibres from above the obturator hole. Near its attachment to the neck of the bone, the capsule is perforated, especially at its fore part, with a great number of apertures which allow vessels to pe- netrate. 707. The Outer Surface of the capsular ligament of the hip joint is covered anteriorly by the rectus femoris, psoas and iliacus muscles ; a bursa mucosa separates it from the united tendons of the two latter muscles ; internally, the obturator externus and pec- tineus, lie over it; posteriorly, it rests upon the quadratus femo- ris, gemelli, pyriformis and obturator internus; and above, is sub- jacent to the gluta3us minimus, which adheres pretty closely to it. Its Inner Surface is entirely invested by the synovial membrane. Its Upper Circumference is attached to the margin of the coty- loid cavity, within two or three lines of the cotyloid hgament, to which it is attached opposite the inferior notch. It is also con- nected by a particular fasciculus to the anterior and inferior spi- npus process of the ilium, and by some fibres to the edge of the ckurator foramen, as we have already said. It ascends per- ceptibly higher at the outside than internally, and is strengthened in a great part of its extent, above and behind, by the termination of the curved tendon of the rectus femoris, which even passes to its inner surface. The Inferior Circumference is closely fixed around the base of the neck of the femur; it descends lower at the outside than internally, where it sometimes does not pass beyond the middle of the neck of the bone, and is limited anteriorly and posteriorly by the two oblique lines of the neck ; by the small tro- chanter below, and the greater above. 708. Round Ligoment of the Head of the Femur, or Inter-ar- ticular Li(jame?it, \Ligumcnlum teres capitis femoris sen ligamcn-