OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 595 body of the inferior maxillary bone, forms opposite the symphysis, the Frceimm of the tongiis (207^), covers, as we have said, the whole surface of that organ, gains the epiglottis, and is continued iito the mucous membrane of the larynx (1487), and that of the pharynx. 2103. Superiorly it commences on the free edge of the upper ip, forms between it and the superior maxillary bones a frcBmim ^similar to that of the lower lip, gains the upper alveolar arch, sends Drolongations into the corresponding alveoli, passes to the vault of ihe palate, of which it closes the anterior and the two posterior ■ibramina, receives the nerves and vessels which pass through them, mad is reflected over the fore part of the velum palati, on the tree edge of which it is continuous with the pituitary membrane (2058). 2104. On either side, this membrane, proceeding from the com- missure of the lips, Imes the cheeks, at the middle of which it pre- eents the orifice of the parotid duct, and proceeds over the branches )6f the inferior maxillary bone, forming a vertical fold opposite their interior edge. At the backmost part, it turns over the constrictor sBthmi faucium (1051) and palato-pharyngeus muscles (1048), m form the pillars of the velum palati, between which it covers the i>;onsils. Beyond this, it is continuous with the membrane of the ibharynx. 2105. The raucous membrane of the mouth presents numerous variations of structure, according to the region of the cavity in Vhich it is examined; there may, however, be assigned it as a ge- laeral character, that it contains in its substance a great quantity of mucous folUcles, which even seem to form a particular membrane- lus layer in some places, and that it is covered by a very distinct fpitheliura. OF THE LIPS, AND ANTERTOR APERTURE OF THE MOTTTH. 2106. The Zips (Labia) are two moveable veils, composed aff various muscular bundles, interspersed with nerves and vessels, Wmd covered by the skin and common mucous membrane of the fiviouth, which terminate that cavity anteriorly, and are subservient ) the mastication of the food, and the pronunciation of words, 'he lips, which are distinguished into upper and under, are placed lefore each of the maxillae, and have a thickness subject to numer- us individual variations, but peculiarly great in the negro. Be- (ween them is a transverse slit, which is the anterior aperture of •he mouth. The upper lip, which is generally a little more advanced than he other, presents anteriorly and in the middle, a vertical groove, ather broad but shallow, which seems to be continuous with the rpptum of the nose (2046). Posteriorly, it is covered by the mu- cous membrane, which there forms a particular fold. Its free