720 OilGANS OF CinCULATlON. one of whicli penetrates into the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris, (Art. cavernosa ditoridis), while tlio other creeps upon the back of that organ, {Art. dor salts clitoridis). OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTEEY. (Art. iliaca externa seu cruralis in pelvi.) 2G01. This arises from the bifurcation of the common iliac ar- tery, and extends to the crural arch, where it changes its name to assume that of femoral artery. It descends obliquely outwards, along the inner and fore part of the psoas muscle, applied posted riorly and internally upon the external iliac vein, and covered by the peritoneum. It is generally straight, but sometimes forms several curves of greater or less extent. 2602. In its course, it only gives off a few small twigs to the psoas muscle, the peritoneum, and the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia. But, before passing under the crural arch, it furnishes two considerable branches, which are named the Epigastric and Circumflex Iliac Arteries. OF THE EPiaASTRIC ARTERY. (Art. epigastrica). 2603. It arises from the lower and internal part of the external iliac artery, a little above the crural arch, and beneath the place where the peritoneum leaves the anterior wall of the abdomen to be reflected into the iliac fossa. It immediately directs itself in- wards and a little forwards, describing some flexuosities, crosses the direction of the spermatic cord, which conceals its origin, and ascends vertically to the inner side of it, and of the internal ixi- guinal ring, between the peritoneum and fascia transversalis. It still follows a little the outer edge of the rectus muscle, and at the distance of about two inches above the pubes, passes upon its posterior surface, along which it proceeds as far as the umbilicus, where it terminates by several twigs. 2604. Near its origin, the epigastric sometimes furnishes the obturator artery, opposite the crural arch. But it ahvays gives twigs to the peritoneum, the neighbouring cellular tissue, and the spermatic cord. One of these twigs enters the inguinal ring, and is distributed, in the male, to the cremaster muscle, the tunica vaginalis, and the skin of the scrotum, anastomosing with the sper- matic artery, and in the female, to the ligamentum teres, mons veneris, and upper parts of the vulva. 2605. Beyond the spermatic cord, the epigastric artery gives off numerous lateral branches which are distributed inwards to the rcc-