350 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and around the commencement of the vagina, the constrictor va- gm:v. These muscles may also be dissected from within by remov-r ing the mucous membrane of the vulva. i MUSCLES OF THE PELVIS. OF THE LEVATOR ANI. 1313. This muscle completes the lower wall of the abdomen,; forming, at the lower part of the pelvis, a sort of concave floor, which sustains the inferior part of the rectum and the bladder,, around which it constitutes a kind of cincture, which also embraces, the commencement of the urethra, and the vesicula3 seminales. It; is thin, membraneous, irregularly quadrilateral, broader above than below, and arises, by short aponeurotic libres, from the inferior and. posterior part of the symphysis pubis, from the ileum, from above, the upper.region of the obturator internus, from the sciatic spine,, and from the pelvic fascia,* which is, as wc have said, continuous with the iliac fascia. These different origins, which are continu- ous with each other, are only a little interrupted, toward the ob- turator hole, for the passage of the obturator nerve and vessels. The middle and anterior fleshy fibres descend from without inwards <md from before backwards; they unite behind and beneath the rectum, with those of the opposite side, and envelope that intestine in a radiating manner; some of the more anterior seem to be at- tached to the prostate gland, or confounded with the sphinc- ter ani; others, proceeding from the angle of union of the corpora" cavernosa of the penis with the urethra, expand posteriorly over the bulb of that canal. The posterior descend inwards, and ter-, minate below the sides of the coccyx, forming a tendinous line. 1314. The Older surface of this muscle corresponds to the la- mina of the pelvic fascia, which covers the obturator internus, to the glutneus maximus and transversus perinrei, as well as to the fat which surrounds the anus. Its inner surface corresponds anteri- orly to the bladder and prostate gland, and to the inner lamina of the pelvic fascia, and embraces the lower part of the rectum. Its posterior edge is continuous with the coccygeus muscle. 1315. In the female, this muscle adheres strongly to the vagina, before arriving at the rectum. It is weaker than in the male, and its fibres, especially the posterior, are less curved. 1316. This muscle raises and carries forward the rectum, which it compresses, at the same time that it resists the action of the dia- phragm and abdominal muscles. It also favours the ejaculation of the spermatic fluid, and the expulsion of the urine. In the female, it contracts the vagina a little. • The pelvic fu.scia divides into two layer."! at this place, the otilcr one covers the inner surface of the obttirator intcrmis musclr, the iiiiirr one is reflected towards the necU of the bladder ; it is to tlm outer surfticc of the latter, .just where it is se|iaTatcd from the former, that the mu.scle in question is attached.