405 OF THE THYROID GLAND. ferent individuals, and even in the different circumstances of life, : from the motions which the arytenoid cartilages perform. 1494. The Inferior Eivtremity of the larynx, which is of greater extent in man than in woman, represents a circle pretty accurately [ traced, and formed by the lower circumference of the cricoid carti- iJage ; it is connected by a fibrous membrane with the first ring of I the trachea. Its upper extremity is much wider than the lower ; lit is formed anteriorly and on the sides by the upper edge of the : thyroid cartilage, behind the middle of which there is perceived the "triangular space occupied by the gland of the epiglottis, and closed ;iby a sort of fibrous membrane, thicker at the middle than the edges, attached to the posterior concavity of the body of the ihyoid bone, (276) and to the middle part of the epiglottis, beneath :!the place where the mucous membrane is reflected. Farther back, we find the epiglottis itself, and its different glosso-epiglottic and laryteno-epiglottic mucous folds; together with the superior aper- ture of the larynx, placed above the glottis, and formed laterally >by these latter folds, anteriorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the larytenoid cartilages. In its ordinary state it presents the figure of la triangle, the base of which is before and the summit behind. It as directed a httle obliquely backwards and downwards. This aper- ture must not be confounded with the glottis, situated beneath dt, (1493). 1495. The arteries of the larynx are furnished by the superior sand inferior thyroid; its veins discharge themselves into the cor- responding trunks; its lymphatics lose themselves in the infe- •lior jugular ganglia;* its nerves are derived especially from the pneumo-gastric nerves, and from the two superior cervical ganglia the sympathetic. Of the Thyroid Body. 1496. The Thyroid Body {Glandula thyroidea), is an organ respecting the uses of which we are totally ignorant, and which anatomists usually describe after the larynx, on account of its situa- tion ; for it covers the lower and anterior parts of that organ, as well as the first rings of the trachea. This body exhibits great dif- lerences in its size in different individuals, and at different ages in the same individual, without our being able to assign any reasons tor them; but, in general, it is larger in the child than in the aault, and in the female than in the male. It is more constant in s torm ; is composed of two oval lobes, flattened from before W- '^T' ^^"^^^^^ ^^lo^ t^an above, and having a more or less oDiique direction in different individuals. These two lobes are J-ometimes united in a great part of their extent; but in general woVJa'',Wirrvv!!T- ^y^'"'"' '^'"•'""t '*s t» uudcrstand by ll.o "ru gungUgn what is commonly caUcd a conglobate gland.