392 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The inner side corresponds to the flexor brevis pollicis, the tendon of the peroneus longus, and the outer edge of the first metatarsal bone. The oufer edye is in connexion with the interossci and ex- ternal plantar artery. 1459. It carries the great toe outwards, and bends it a little. OF THE FLEXOR BUEVIS MINIMI DIGITI. 1460. Short, thicker in the middle than at its extremities, and situated internally of the preceding, this muscle arises, by aponeu- roses prolonged over its inner surface, from the under part of the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the Hga- mentous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. From thence it directs itself horizontally forwards, and is inserted, by apo- neurotic fibres appearing upon its under surface, into the lower and outer part of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis and the abductor minimi digiti; the upper is covered by the fifth metatarsal bone and by the last plantar interosseous muscle. It bends the first phalanx of the little toe. OF THE INTEllOSSEI PEDIS. 1461. The interossci of the foot are similar in number, form, and disposition to those of the hand (1237). belong to the three middle toes, and one to the little toe : the great toe has none. Four are situated on the back of the foot, and three on the sole. OF THE INTERNAL OR PLANTAR INTEROSSEI. 1462. The Jirst internal interosseous muscle (adductor digiti tertiiJ, is of the form of a triangular prism. It arises from the two lower thirds of the whole inner surface of the third metatarsal bone, and from the ligaments by which it is united inferiorly to the tarsus. Its fleshy fibres are inserted upon the outer surface, and a little upon the inner edge of a tendon which terminates, like those of the preceding muscles, at the inner side of the third toe. The upper side of this muscle is placed between the third meta- tarsal bone and the abductor of the second toe. The lower side is applied upon the transversus pedis and abductor pollicis. 1463. The second internal interosseous muscle {adductor digiti quarti), is flattened, and situated beneath the interosseous space to which it belongs. It arises from the lower part of the inner ;surface of the fourth metatarsal bone, and from the ligaments by 4-