ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 718 muscles, and in the fat of that part. Another branch is distributed in the lower third of the glutaeus maximus and in the cellular tissue which surrounds the sciatic tuberosity. The third which seems to continue the course of the artery, accompanies the sciatic nerve as < far as the inferior and posterior part of the thigh and gives twigs to the glutEcus maximus, quadratus, gemelH, biceps, serai-tendinosus, (i semi-membranosus and adductor magnus. It ends by anastomos- u ing with the perforating and circumflex arteries. OF THje INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. {Art. Pudenda Communis.) 2591 • This is a little smaller than the ischiatic, from which it is very often given off. It descends before the sciatic plexus and pyri- formis muscle, and issues from the pelvis by the lower part of the great sciatic notch, between the pyriformis muscle and the poste- rior edge of the levator ani, close to the anterior sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and only separated from the ischiatic artery by a layer of fat. Immediately after, it proceeds downwards and inwards, passes be- tween the two sacro-sciatic ligaments, bends over the anterior, which it embraces externally, places itself upon the internal surface of the ischium, between the obturator internus and levator ani muscles, runs nearly horizontally forwards and inwards to near the common origin of the erector penis and transversus perinjpi muscles, and there divides into two branches, which are differently distributed in the male and in the female, and of which one is superficial and the other deep. 2592. In the pelvis, the internal pudic artery sometimes gives rise to the middle haemorrhoidal, obturator, &c. But it always sends some ramifications to the bladder, the vesiculae seminales, the prostate gland, the commencement of the urethra, the rectum, and, in the female, to the upper part of the vagina. 2593. After issuing from the pelvis, it gives off laterally a great number of twigs, of moderate size, which may be distinguished in- to internal and external. The internal are spread out in the midst of the abundant fat which surrounds the rectum, and are distri- buted to the sphincter and levator ani muscles. The others, which are much more slender, descend towards the tuber ischii, and lose themselves in the origins of the flexor muscles of the leg and in the integuments. 2594. Superficial Branch {Art. Perincea Superjicialis). Small- er than the superior, it runs from behind forwards, between the skin and transversalis perinei muscle, in the adipose cellular tissue which fills the triangular space between the erector penis and accelerator urinffi muscles. At first nearer the ramus of the ischium than the raphe, it approaches the latter as it advances, and gives