OUGANS OF SENSATION. 468 witliout really anastomosing with it. A little farther on, there i» detached from it a very minute filament which loses itself in the in- ternal muscle of the malleus, after passing through a small aper- ture in the bone. At the posterior wall of the cavity of the tym- panum, another filament, still smaller, traverses the base of tho pyramid, and throws itself into the muscle of the stapes. Still lower, the upper branch of the vidian nerve separates from it anew, descends parallel to it for some extent, is reflected upwards and outwards, and enters the cavity of the tympanum by an aperture situated beneath the pyramid. This branch then takes the name of Chorda tympani. 1677- 111 passing through the stylo-mastoid hole, the facial nerve furnishes several twigs which go to the neighbouring parts, of which the most considerable is the I678. Posterior auricular branch, {nervus auris posterior).— It descends at first deeply for a few lines, is then reflected upon the anterior part of the mastoid process, from whence it is directed behind the external ear. There it is divided into two filaments, an anterior, which ramifies upon the internal surface of the car, and gives some filaments to the posterior auricular muscle, and a pos- terior, which is expanded by subdividing upon the mastoid process, and in the occipitalis muscle and the neighbouring integuments. These ramifications anastomose with those of the cervical plexus. The other twigs which the facial nerve furnishes at the same point, are the following :— J 679. Stylo-hyoid branch, {nervus stylo-hyoidetis).—This sends several filaments to the muscles which arise from the styloid pro- cess of the temporal bone. One or two of these filaments traverse the stylo-hyoideus muscle, and anastomose with the filaments of the superior cervical ganglion. 1680. Infra-mastoid branch, {nerxnis musculi digastric'i).—It passes into the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, passes through it after furnishing it with some filaments, and divides into two twigs. One of these ascends inwards behind the internal ju- gular vein, and anastomoses with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, as it issues from the cranium. The other descends along the styloid process, and unites with the superior laryngeal branch of the pneu- mo-gastric nerve. 1681. After furnishing these three branches, the trunk of the facial nerve itself enters into the parotid gland, where it is at first deeply concealed, but whose surface it approaches by descending obliquely forwards. , After a passage of seven or eight lines, it di- vides into two branches: superior or temporo-facial, which is larger, and an inferior or cervico-facial, which is smaller. 1682. Temporo- facial branch, (Ramus major sive adscendens). It proceeds forwards, into the substance of the gland, towards the neck of the condyle of the jaw, whose direction it crosses, behind which it sends one or two filaments to anastomose with those of the superficial temporal nerve (1670). It then divides into seven