PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 90 diameter is somewhat greater than the perpendicular. In general, it is symmetrical, unless in some rather rare cases, in which, with- out the existence of any morbid cause, one side is larger than the other, of which we have seen a very remarkable example in the skull of the celebrated Bichat. This cavity is continued behind and below into the vertebral canal, and comprehends two very distinct regions, the vault and the base, which are both lined by the dura mater. The surface of the bones which constitute them is very smooth, brittle and thin, and is named by most anatomists the Vi- treous Table. 307. The Vault of the Cranium, which is rounded and pretty regularly curved, is separated from the base by a circular line car- ried from the root of the nose to the occipital protuberance. Over its whole extent there are observed cerebral impressions and arte- rial furrows ; a channel, narrower before than behind, passes over it in a longitudinal direction, from the frontal crest which is ob- served at the fore part, and which has frequently a small groove formed along its whole extent for the attachment of the falx major, tor the internal occipital protuberance, where it terminates posteri- orly. This channel, which lodges the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater, presents in its middle part the sagittal suture, the serratures of which are much less distinct than on the outer surface of the cranium, as is indeed the case with all the sutures. On its sides it presents many small irregular cavities, which lodge the bodies called glands of Pacchioni, and the internal orifices of the parietal holes, when they exist. We also observe in the vault of the cranium laterally, the coronal fossre, the fronto-parietal su- ture, and the parietal fossae, separated from the superior occipital by the lambdoid suture, and formed opposite the protuberances of the same name. 308. The Base of the Cranium, which is flat and very uneven, is formed by three planes placed successively the one above the other from the posterior to the anterior part, and representing by their union a sort of inclined surface, much lower behind and ex- tremely uneven. The upper edges of the processes of Ingrassias and the upper edges of the petrous processes constitute the respec- tive limits of these three planes, and allow each of them to be exa- mined separately. 309. The Jirst plane presents, immediately before and in the " middle line, the foramen ccecum. This hole, which exists at the lower part of the frontal crest, is narrow, not very deep, and ap- pears to have but doubtful communications with the outside. Ber- tin* says he has frequently seen its bottom perforated by another canal which penetrated into the anterior cells of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone, and I have made the same observation ; which would seem to demonstrate that this hole penetrates into the cavities of the nostrils. Petit, of the Avademie des Scicncesy asserts " l.w. cit. vol. ii. p. 07.