ORGANIZATION OF THE KIDNEYS. 797 motch, more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly, and called the IFissure of the Kidney. ORGANIZATION OF THE KIDNEYS. ^*.2935. Each kidney receives from the aorta an artery of consider- lable diameter, although rather short (2547), sends to the vena .cava inferior corresponding veins (2744). A very distinct nervous iplexus accompanies these vessels (1920), and around them there lalso occur lymphatic vessels (2814). We have already described all these organs, so that there only remains for us to examine the ;:proper parenchyma of the kidney and its envelope. 2936. The parenchyma of the kidney is firmer than that of the oother glands. It appears composed of two distinct substances, an eexternal or cortical, and an internal, named tubular or mam- t miliary. 2937. The cortical substance of the kidneys forms around these oorgans an external layer, one or two lines thick, of a dark or red- ddish bay colour, and adhering to their capsular membrane. Inter- Enally, it furnishes several prolongations in the form of septa, be- i tween which are placed the conical bundles of the tubular substance, ..and which diminish in thickness towards the pelvis, from which tthey are separated by fat. This substance tears with great ease. (Under the microscope, it appears composed of solid granulations of ia very small size, formed by the capillary extremities of the renal ;arteries and veins. ..-2938. The tubular substance represents a number of conical, ttruncated bundles, of unequal size, enveloped on all sides, excepting ttowards their summits, by the cortical substance. The base of all I these cones is rounded and directed towards the circumference of tthe kidney ; their summit, on the contrary, is directed towards the jpelvis or fissure of the kidney. .-,,;The colour of this substance is pale red, especially at the centre oof each of the cones. Its tissue is dense, firm and tenacious. It ilis formed of a great number of delicate convergent canals, very c close upon each other towards the summit of the cones, and dhrect- i;ly continuous with the vessels of the cortical substance, from which tthey derive their origin. They are as it were expanded at the sur- t'face of each cone, while towards its summit they open at the into- rrior of the calyces by orifices extremely close upon each other. The ^summits of the cones represent so many mammilla2 at the surface of which the urine thus oozes out. Some anatomists have made of the mammillas a third substance, which they have designated by the name of the mammillary sub- ' stance; but their structure is absolutely the same as that of the [ccones which they terminate. They differ only in being a little paler in their colour. Their number, which is generally equal to ;lthat of the cones, varies from twelve to eighteen ; but, in some sub-