MtJSCLKS OF THE BACK* 219 the sterno-cleiao-mastoklcus; in tlie middle, by the trapezius and lev itor anguli scapuhi,'; below, by the serratus posticus superior, and rhomboideus. The anterior surface lies upon the corn- plexus, longissimus dorsi, trachelo-mastoideus and transversalis ^'^829. The splenius extends the head, inclining it laterally, and impresses upon it a rotatory motion which turns the fece to one side. When the two muscles act together, they extend the head directly. 1,1 830. This muscle is exposed: the upper part, by the removal of the upper portions of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles ; the lower, by the removal of the serratus posticus superior. The following are the muscles of the third layer : OF THE LONGISSIMUS DOUSI AND SACRO-I.UMBALTS. 831. These two muscles are intimately incorporated below, where they constitute a very strong and thick fleshy bundle, a little flat- tened, contracted below, and broader above, which fills the whole space that exists between the lower part of the sacrum and the twelfth rib; opposite the latter they may be separated from each other : the longissimus dorsi is the internal, and more voluminous ; the sacro-lumhalis the external, and more slender. 832. A broad, strong, dense, and thick aponeurosis, of a white and ghstening appearance, formed of fibres interlaced, and separat- ed, from space to space, by apertures traversed by nerves and ves- sels, covers the whole of this mass behind. Attached to the poste- rior part of the iliac crest, the sides of the notch which terminates the sacral canal, the whole middle ridge of the sacrum, the spinous processes of the lumbar and last dorsal vertebrae, as well as to the corresponding interspinal ligaments, this aponeurosis gives origin to the greater part of the fibres of this muscular mass, is prolonged much higher on the longissimus dorsi than the sacro-lumbalis, and divides into a considerable number of narrow bands, .whose neighbouring edges are connected by a more or less thin, and trans- parent aponeurotic membrane. 833. But the Heshy mass of which we speak, does not derive its origin from this aponeurosis alone ; it arises from the sacrum by a pointed prolongation, which covers the posterior surface of that hone from the end of the sacral canal, and which is particularly attached to its three upper transverse processes. It arises also, by small tendons, from the spinous processes of the three or four last vertebne, from the sacro-iliac ligament, and from tlie inner and pos- terior part of the crest of the ilium ; from these diflcrent places the fleshy (ibres ascend almost vertically. 8<j\. The Lonf/issimiis Dorsi is extended at the posterior part of the trunk, from the preceding bundle to the ujipcr part of the back, between the sacro-lumbalis and spinalis dorsi. It is