PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 718. Internal Lateral Ligament {Ligamentum later ale inter~ num). It is also situated a little behind the articulation, and de- scends from the tuberosity of tlie internal condyle of the femur to tlie upper part^ of the inner edge and surface of the tibia. It is flat and membranous, thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, much broader below than above. It is covered at its upper part by the aponeurosis of the thigh, and below by an aponeurotic expansion, arising from the tendons of the sartorius, semitendinosus, and gra- cilis. It is applied over the synovial membrane; the internal fibro- cartilage, which gives insertion posteriorly to a considerable bundle of its fibres ; and the tibia. 719. Posterior Ligament {Ligamentum posticum Winsloii.) Some anatomists consider this ligament as a division of the apo- neurosis of the semimembranosus muscle. It appears, however, rather to form a distinct ligament, which is deeply seated at the back part of the articulation, and directed obliquely from the in- ternal tuberosity of the tibia to the outer condyle of the femur. Its fibres are irregular, and present frequent separations for the passage of vessels. It is covered by an aponeurotic plane, which really comes from the semimembranosus, and is applied upon the crucial ligaments, from which it is separated by a great quantity of fat, and by the middle articular vessels. 720. Anterior Crucial Ligament (Ligamentit7?i cruciatum anti- cum). It is attached to the inner and back part of the external condyle of the femur, whence it proceeds obliquely towards the un- even depression, which is situated on the fore part of the spine of the tibia. It contracts as it descends ; its fibres are slightly twist- ed upon themselves; and when it has arrived at the tibia, it is con- tinued into the anterior extremity of the internal semilunar fibro- cartilage. Anteriorly, it is invested by the synovial membrane, and posteriorly, is applied by means of cellular tissue upon the fol- lowing ligament. 721. Posterior Crucial Ligament {Ligamentum cruciatum pos- ticum). It arises from the outer and fore part of the inner condyle of the femur, crosses the direction of the anterior crucial ligament, proceeding obliquely outwards and backwards, to the posterior part of the spine of the tibia. It increases much in size as it descends, and its inferior extremity seems divided into two fasciculi, of which one is attached to the tibia, while the other is continued into the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Pos- teriorly, it is covered by the posterior ligament, and by a great quantity of cellular tissue. Anteriorly, it is apphed against the anterior crucial ligament. The two crucial ligaments {Ligamenta crjiciata genu) are not contained within the articulation, as might at first sight be sup- posed. They are of considerable strength, are composed of dense fibres, and follow such a direction as to cross each other, the one passing before the other, like the two legs of the letter X. 722. Semilunar or Iiiter-artivular Fibro-cnrtihges {Cartila- gines Imiatoi sivc intcr-arlicularcs gcnv). These are two crcs-