.MUSCLES OF THE FORE-AUM. die of which passes behind the articulation of the first and second phalanges, to be inserted into the posterior surface of the latter, ■nhile the two lateral pass over the sides of the same same articu- lation, contracting and separating from each other ; they then ap- proach and re-unite, forming a flat tendqn which ig attached to the posterior and upper part of the last phalanx. 1188. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, with -jvhich it is intimately united. The anterior covers the supinator brevis, extensores poUicis, extensor indicis, the wrist joint, the posterior surface of the carpus, meta- carpus, and fingers, and the interossei dorsales muscles. Between its outer edge and the extensor carpi radialis brevior, is an interval in which the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi interno- dii pollicis are seen. 1189. Synovial Bursa. As they pass under the annular liga- ment, the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum are embrac- ed by a synovial membrane, but sparingly moistened, which sends several prolongations between them. 1190. This muscle extends the phalanges of the last four fingers upon each other, and upon the metacarpal bones, the hand upon the fore-arm, or the fore-arm upon the hand. OF THE EXTENSOIl PROPRIUS MINIMI DIGITI. 1191. This muscle is situated to the outside of the preceding^ jmd is as long, but extremely slender. It arises from the outer pondyle by the common tendon (1187), from the aponeuro- tic septum which separates it from the preceding muscle, from that which is placed, internally, between it and the extensor carpi ulna-, ris, and from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its fleshy fibres constitute a small fusiform bundle, which descends from without in- wards, and pass very obliquely to within a short distance of the carpus, on the anterior surface of a tendon at first concealed in their substance, and entirely free near the posterior annular ligament, which presents a fibrous canal for it, opposite the lower articulation of the radius and ulna ; this canal is directed obliquely down- wards and inwards, lined by a synovial capsule, and about two inches in length. Before passing into this canal, the tendon of the muscle divides into two portions, which remain contiguous and con- nected by cellular tissue; but towards the upper part of the me- tacarpus, again becomes single and enlarges. It then arrives at the little finger, to the phalanges of which it is attached, precisely m the same manner as those of the extensor communis, and is even united to the fourth tendon of that muscle by its outer edge. 1192. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the *P°"^"'^o«i8 of the fore-arm, and firmly attached to it above; aj; the back of the hand, it lies immediately under the skin. The anterior surface is applied upon the supinator brevis, extensores