ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. and in tlic posterior sacro-sciatic ligament. Some of them anasto- mose with those of the sciatic artery. 2575. Deep Branch. It ascends from behind forwards, between the ghitiPus mcdius and glutyeus minimus, gives first a nutritious twig to the posterior part of the os innominatum, and immediately subdivides into three secondary branches. Of these, the upper fol- lows the direction of the convex edge of the gluUeus minimus, ap- proaches the ihac crest, and forms a large arch which terminates near the anterior and superior spine, after furnishing numerous twigs to the glutoeus raedius by its convexity, and to the glutaeus minimus by its concavity. The second, middle and transverse twig, which is much larger, passes over the glutasus minimus, from which it is separated by much fat, gives twigs to it, and then throws itself into tiie glutseus medius, reaching to near the great trochanter. The third or lower twig, which is about the same size as the upper, first gives some twigs to the pyriformis and glutaeus minimus muscles, and then descends upon tlae latter, traverses its fibres, passes over the iliac bones, enters beneath the tensor vaginae fcmoris, and loses itself upon the capsule of the hip-joint, and in the glutfieus mcdius and minimus, and rectus femoris muscles, anasto- mosing with twigs of the femoral artery. Anterior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE UMBILICAL ARTERY. (Art. Umbilicalis.) 2576- Directed obliquely forwards and inwards as far as the la- teral and upper part of the bladder, it then bends upwards to as- cend behind the anterior wall of the abdomen, where it is contain- ed in a fold of the peritoneum, and whence it directs itself towards the umbilicus, approaching the urachus and that of the opposite side. 2577- In the adult, this artery is in a manner obliterated. Be- yond the bladder, it no longer receives blood, and is converted into a ligament as far as the umbilicus. Even at the first portion of its course its walls are so thick, that the colour of the fluid which they contain cannot be perceived through them. 2578. But in the foetus, it is of large size, and appears to form the true continuation of the trunk of the hypogastric artery. On arriving at the umbilicus it issues by that aperture, forms part of \he umbilical cord, and gains the placenta, twisting vipon itself a great number of times. It then seems to furnish all the otlier branches of the hypogastric, while after birth it gives only a few yery sloiider twigs to the bladder and uterus.