MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 2G3 is in connexion with a very delicate lanainar cellular tissue. The I posterior surface is applied superiorly upon the corrugator super- . cilii, to which it adheres ; lower down, upon the ligamentum latum and fibro-cartilage of the upper eyelid; externally, upon the ex- I ternal orbitar process, and the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle; I below, upon the cheek bone, the zygomatic muscles, the levator ] labii superioris, the levator labii superioris aloeque nasi, from which i it is separated by the facial vein, and upon the ligament and the t fibro-cartilage of the lower eyelid; internally, upon the ascend- i ing process of the superior maxillary bone, and the lachrymal 1 sac. Its circumference is confounded, above and below, with the I pyramidalis nasi; then a little more outwards, with the anterior ( edge of the frontalis (878). At its lower part, it is free, and some i irregular bundles of fibres are detached from it, which are lost in I the cellular tissue of the cheek, and describe curves whose convexity i ia below; some of them unite with the zygomaticus minor. ,. 895. The orbicularis palpebrarum carries the eyelids toward I each other, bringing them over the fore part of the eyeball, ' upon wliicli it applies them, wrinlding them more or less. It also 1 depresses the eyebrow at the same time that it raises the cheek, . and renders it more prominent. It determines the course of the I tears toward the inner angle of the eye. The cessation of its ac- l tion allows the eyelids to open. It is the antagonist of the levator palpebrjE superioris. 896. To dissect this muscle, a circular incision, through the skin, should be made around the eye about an inch from the edges • of the eyelids. The skin at the upper part is to be raised, dissect- ing from above downwards, and following the curved direction of the fibres from the internal angle of the eye to the outer. The skin at the lower part is tp be raised by dissecting from below up- wards, and using the same precautions. OF THE CORUUGATOR SUPERCILII. 897- The Carrugator Supercilii is a short and thin muscle, which describes the same curve as the superciliary arch of the fron- tal bone, on wliich it lies. Internally, it is attached toward the nasal prominence of the same bone by an extremity some- times simple, but most commonly divided into two or three por- tions. It terminates in a pointed form, about the middle of the orbitar arch, where it is confounded with the frontalis and orbicu- laris palpebrarum. Its anterior surface is covered by these two muscles, and, a little inwards, by the pyramidalis nasi. The pos- terior surface covers the frontal bone, superciliary artery, and trontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. 898. It draws towards the nose the skin of the eyebrows, the hairs ot which It raises so as to shade the eye. It acts especially in the dcprcssmg passions.