459 OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. ; ds into the upper eye-lid, in the substance of which they fre- lontly anastomose by arches with those which terminate the chryraal nerve; sometimes these anastomoses are not visible, vcral of these same filaments also lose themselves in the anterior rtiice of the corrugator supercilii and frontalis muscles. One of. cm penetrates into the frontal sinuses by an aperture of its own, ul is distributed to the membrane by which they are lined; but e nerve, continuing its course, issues from the orbit between the alley of the obliquus oculi superior and the supra-orbitar hole, is Hected from below upwards, ascends behind the corrugator su- L'l-cilii and frontalis muscles, gives filaments to their posterior sur- lace, and ends by expanding in the subcutaneous cellular tissue )\)wards the top of the head. The external frontal branch pro- eeeds directly forwards, passes through the supra-orbitar hole, and laost commonly gives off immediately a filament which directs it- .felf transversely outwards, subdivides in the upper eye-lid, anasto- moses with those of the facial nerve, and ascends behind the cor- uugator supercilii. Another filament separates from it at the same ?';vel, and passes transversely to the root of the nose, where it ap- eears to unite with a filament of the internal frontal nerve. In hhe interior of the supra-orbitar foramen, sometimes sooner, the aerve itself divides into two ramifications which are reflected over hhe forehead, behind the corrugator supercilii, and subdivide into I great number of deep and superjicial filaments. The former inre distributed in the corrugator supercilii and frontalis muscles and integuments. The latter, which are much longer, extend over bhe top of the head, as far as the occiput, anastomose internally with bhose of the opposite side, externally with those of the facial nerve, ^posteriorly with those of the first cervical nerves. They only be- some superficial after perforating the epicranial aponeurosis. 1652. Of the Nasal Nerve, {ner\3us naso-ocularis). Morevolumi- ■inous than the lachrymal, but smaller than the frontal, it penetrates into the orbit between the two posterior attachments of the abductor oculi, situated internally of the third pair, and above the sixth nerve. From thence it proceeds obliquely inwards, forwards, and a little upwards, ascends between the optic nerve and the at- tollens oculum, gains the inner wall of the orbit under the obli- quus superior oculi, and divides into two secondary twigs in the midst of a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Frequently, before entering the orbit, this nerve receives a filament from the superior cervical ganglion. On entering it, it gives off' a slender filament, about six lines in length, which runs along the optic nerve externally, and proceeds to the upper and back part of the ophthalmic ganglion, after having communicated by one or two small twigs with the upper branch of the third pair (IG3G). In passmg above the optic nerve, the nasal nerve produces two or ^nxcQ ciliary filaments, which are distributed to the ball of the eye, • as we shall subsequently point out.