ORGANS OF SENSATION, 446 It is also to be remarked, that the sum of the united diameter of the different branches of the same nerve is much greater, tha the diameter of its principal trunk, so that every nerve may b said to represent a cone \vhose base is at the periphery of the bod or organs, and the summit at the brain or spinal marrow. 1599. The filaments which terminate the branches of the nerve, end, by being continued into other nervous filaments, or by dis appearing in the tissue of the organs, without our being as ye able to say exactly in what manner. The communication of th nervous filaments, or their continuation into each other, is name Anastomosis ;* this mode of junction must be carefully distinguish- ed from that of mere juxta-position, which is sometimes observed. The nervous anastomoses may take place in four different ways: 1st, By two branches which belong to different nerves, as is ob- served to take place between the hypoglossal nerve and the cervi- cal nerves. 2dly, By branches of the same nerve, as in those of the trifacial nerve or facial nerve. 3dly, By branches united in the median line of the body, and coming separately from each side, as may be seen in the superficial nerves of the neck and face. These three modes of anastomosis take place between filaments of the same nervous system. But, 4thly, There is another in which filaments of the encephalic system are united with filaments of the sympathetic. 1600. If two or more different nerves approach each other, and if their different branches are confounded by a great number of an- astomoses, or even of juxta-positions, so that there results a sort of more or less complicated net-work, a Plexus is produced. The different nervous branches which are spread out to form a plexus unite again, and give rise to trunks which pursue their course in the usual manner. Very distinct examples of this arrangement oc- cur in the extremities. 1601. Every nerve is formed by a greater or less number of cords, placed in juxta-position, which are themselves formed o£ several filaments of the same nature. The number of these fila- ments is always very considerable, and frequently even cannot be determined by optical instruments; but, with the assistance of acids and alkalies, the structure of the nerves, such as we shall presently describe it, is as it were laid bare. All these cords also, as well as their fibres, are connected by cellular tissue ; on sepa- rating them, it is perceived that they send frequent branches to each other, so as to form a kind of plexus in the very substance of the nerve, on which account, the filaments that compose the cords, are after a certain passage no longer the same as at the commence-; ment of the nerve. The disposition of the nervous cord presents numerous varia- tions. Their size is seldom the same in the different nerves ; nor is it proportional to the volume of the nerve. Those of the sciatic • AfoirliftMtiSf rnoscuMio.