192 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. G18. Anterior Costo-Transmrse Liyaimnt, (Ligamentum transversum internum costarum, seu ligamentum cervicis costcB in- ternum J. The first and last ribs are destitute of tliis ligament; and, in the others, it does not really belong to their articulation, since it does not proceed from the transverse process to be attach- ed to the corresponding rib. It presents the appearance of a fas- ciculus composed of long diverging fibres, narrower above than be- low, broader and thinner in the lower ribs than in the upper, and always more distinct anteriorly than posteriorly; it is attached to the lower edge of each transverse process, and descends fromi thence inwards, to be inserted broader into the upper edge of thei rib beneath, near its articulation with the body of the vertebra. Irr most subjects, it seems composed of two fasciculi, one of which; smaller than the preceding, crosses its direction; the latter arisei immediately from the base of the process, and is attached to the head of the rib beneath. The anterior costo-transverse ligament corresponds anterioi'ly to the intercostal nerve and vessels; poste- riorly, to the longissimus dorsi. Externally, it is continuous with a thin aponeurosis of the intercostal muscles, and serves internally to complete an aperture, filled with cellular tissue, and traversei by the posterior branch of the corresponding intercostal nerve. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. auticulations of the bones of tub pelvis with the vertebral column. articulation of the sacrum with the veetebr.e. » 619. The articulation of the sacrum with the fifth lumbar verte bra, is in general perfectly similar to those of the vertebrae, anc takes place by three different points ; viz. by the oval surface which is at the middle of the base of the sacrum, and which is connectec with the inferior surface of the body of the last vertebra, forming an amphiarthrosis; and by the two articular surfaces, seen behinc the entrance of the sacral canal, which constitute a double arthxo- dia with the inferior articular surfaces of the last vertebra. The means of union which are met with here are also the same as m the vertebral column, and are as follows:—A fibro-cartilage, (598) ; the continuation of the anterior and posterior common vertebral li- gaments, (596, 597) ; interspinal ligament; the termination of | the ligament by which the apices of the spinous processes are con- \ nected, (601, 602) ; and, lastly, an interlaminar ligamentum flav- I um, (600), which descends from the laminue of the last lumbar 1 vertebra, to the posterior part of the orifice of the sacral canal I