437 OF THE DURA MATER. pplied upon itself, and are in general much less visible in the an- terior region of the sinus than in the posterior. . It is also probable ; hat, by its anterior extremity, the superior longitudinal sinus of- n communicates with a vein of the nose which passes through the foramen coecum (309). 1574. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus {Sinus Falciformis Infe- '>r). Much narrower than the preceding, occupying the lower Ige of the cerebral falx, from its anterior third to the tentorium I orebelh, it seems to result from the union of several small veins ol' the falx itself, and generally terminates by two branches in the straight sinus. Of these branches, one is directly continuous with it above the aperture of the vens Galeni; the other ascends in tthe substance of the falx foi' some time, curves backwards and (downwards, and penetrates obliquely into the straight sinus to- 1 wards the middle of its length. The latter only is furnished with J a valvular fold. 1575. Straight Sinus (Sinus quartus, s. perpendicular is). 'Triangular in its whole extent, broad behind, contracted before, J passing a little obliquely downwards and backwards, it prevails all : along the base of the falx, above the tentorium cerebelli, from tthe termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the torcular IHerophih. In its interior, it presents the same appearance as the ! superior longitudinal sinus : that is to say, upon its walls a great (quantity of fibrous bundles, closer to each other before than be- 1 hind, form remarkable prominences beneath the delicate membrane 1 which covers them. It receives the inferior longitudinal sinus, as iwe have already said: the veins of the cerebral ventricles or the 1 venae Galeni empty themselves into its anterior and inferior part, I presenting a valvular fold. Towards the middle of its length, an(l i inferiorly, the straight sinus still receives the blood of the superior veins of the cerebellum, through a rounded separation of the fibres of the dura mater. ^ 1576. Occipital Sinuses (Sinus occipitalis posterior dexter et i sinister). These sinuses commence on the sides of the foramen ' magnum, not far from the termination of the lateral sinuses, with ' which they sometimes communicate, and ascend, becoming broad- £ er, and drawing nearer each other, in the substance of the falx ce- r rebelli, where they pretty frequently unite altogether : they open, ^ each by itself, into the lower part of the torcular Herophili. They r receive the veins of the falx cerebelli, of the dura mater which lines ; the inferior occipital fossa?, and those of the posterior part of the cerebellum. 1-577- Lateral Sinuses (Sinus Transversi). They carry the • blood from the torcular Herophili to the foramen lacerum poste- • nus, into the sinus of the jugular vein. Their course is marked " by a groove which exists on each side of the interior of the cranium ' (olo). A difference of capacity is almost always observed be- tween tliem, the sinus of the right side being generally larger. rrom the torcular Herophili to the upper edge of the petrous pro-