172 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The fibres of the ligaments are connected by a somewhat hiosc cellular tissue, which frequently contains fatty ilakcs, especially in those whose form is irregular. These fibres are white or greyish, liard, possessed of little elasticity, hut very tenacious, and cajjable of bearing the greatest stress. Some small blood vessels and lym- phatics traverse them, and penetrate into their intervals by narrow fissures filled with cellular tissue, but no nerves have been disco- vered in them. 565. The tissue of the ligaments contains a large proportion of water. It becomes hard, transparent, elastic and brittle by desic- cation, which gives it moreover a reddish or yellowish colour. By maceration, it softens and becomes flocculent at the surface, long be- fore resolving itself into mucous matter. 566. Fibrous Capsules. This name is given to cylindrical membranous bags, of a fibrous texture, more or less strong and thick, elastic, whitish, loose in proportion as the part is susceptible of more extensive motion, enveloped by a great quantity of cellular tissue, strengthened by tendinous fibres coming from the neigh- bouring muscles, and open at their two extremities, M'hich are in- terlaced with the periosteum around the circumference of the upper and lower articular surfaces, in the humero-scapular and ilio-femo- ral articulations, the only ones in which true capsules are observ- ed. They sometimes open to afford a passage to tendons which go to attach themselves to the bone, and are lined internally by the synovial membrane. After a fortunate injection, the surface of these capsules is seen covered with a very distinct net-work of vessels, which subdivide more and more as they approach the circumference of the carti- lages. M. Heyligers* has observed that they also receive nerves, which is especially apparent in the articulation of the thigh, as I have had occasion to see myself. 567- Like the tissue of the ligaments, that of the capsule is with difficulty altered by maceration, retaining its appearance and structure for a long time, nor is it until after a considerable period has elapsed, that its fibres separate from each other to be converted into a soft, whitish and homogeneous pulp. Both are dissolved into jelly in boiling water, after having first curled, and that some- times with so much violence as to detach the surface of the bone to which they are fastened. They both harden in the air, and ac- quire the transparency of horn. Sulphuric acid reduces them to a blackish pulp, and nitric acid converts them into a yellow sulv stance; acetic acid swells them and reduces them to a gelatinous mass. The alkalies swell and soften them. 568. Articular Fibro-cartilages. These bodies which are in- cartilaginc ; tluritie et colore a musculo ; robore a nervo ; soliditate a vasis; postOl et usn a tondiuibus, quibuscuni, quantum ad materiam, exacto convenit. Soemm. Dc Corp. Hum. fal). torn. ii. p. 1. • Dissert. Flnjs-Amt. dc Fob. Int. Articul. 8vo. Trajecti ad Rhcnum. 1803, p-