OF THE LEG. 117 minent than the internal, uneven, rough, convex, and gives attach- ment to the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Beneath this tuberosity, there is observed a pretty wide groove, which re- ceives the tendon of the popliteus muscle.* Internally, this con- dyle presents an uneven rugose surface, at the posterior part of which is inserted the anterior crucial ligament. Very convex be- hind, nearly flat before, and very broad beneath, this condyle differs considerably from the inner, which is more convex anteriorly, and less broad below. - 498. Structure. The femur presents the structure common to all the long bones, in other words, is formed of compact tissue in its body, and of cellular tissue in its extremities. Its compact tis- sue appears evidently fibrous at the outside, and especially on the neck. A large cylindrical medullary canal occupies the whole in- terior of the bone, and presents a multitude of broad laminae which detach themselves from its walls, together with very slender mter- laced filaments. 499. Development. The femur is developed by five points of ossification, one for each of the three processes of the pelvic extre- mity, one for the body, and one for the two condyles of the lower extremity. 500. Articulations. It is articulated with the os innominatum, the tibia, and the patella, by the various parts already mentioned. OF THE XEG. OF THE PATELLA. 501. The Patella {Rotula), is an irregular flattened bone^ of inconsiderable size, occupying the anterior part of the knee. Its form is that of a triangle rounded on the angles. Its Anterior Surface is convex, uneven, covered with a great number of small vascular apertures and longitudinal striae, which indicate the direc- tion of the fibres of the bone: it is covered by tendinous and aponeurotic expansions, and by the skin. The Posterior Surface is separated into two portions, covered with cartilage, and articulated with the condyles of the femur, by a prominent line which descends obhquely inwards from the base of the bone towards its lower * The groove described in the text receives the tendon of the popliteus muscle only ouring the flexion of the knee-joint, the tendon being inserted into one extremity of Wrt, tv!^ "''^^"■'•V^'"'"'''^^* ^'^'^ encrusted with cartilage, and covered w^m the synovial membrane, thus forming a part of the articulation of the knee. '^''fended, the tendon of the popliteus is not in the groove; npxinn n "'^ «™ooth lip of it, and should the Ro thaf If u fO"'*'de>-able degree, the tendon at last slips into the groove ; of thl nn 7?^ "'ii,' ''een/»,7«erf for Ihc occasional rcceplion of the tendon anv nnafZ-"'^''''an's'T'. wiiicli lias scarcely been properly drscribed bv Xrdes, r T T" ''y Winslow. We slmll return to thi. .tructure wnen describing the functioni. of tliw popliteus muscle.