OF THE SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. palate bone, in a groove of its own, and divides into two filaments, I one for the uvula, the other for the tonsil and the follicles of the I membrane of the palate. I872. Of the Vidian or Pterygoid Nerve, (Nervus pteryyoi- I deus). oil leaving the spheno-palatine ganglion, it proceeds ho- I rizontally backwards, sends two very slender filaments to the mem- ' brane of the sphenoidal sinus, enters the pterygoid canal (114), and passes through it, giving off, through its walls, ramifications to the upper and back part of the septum of the nasal fossa?, the membrane of the pharynx near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, and that orifice itself. On issuing from its canal, the vidian nerve traverses the fibro-cartilaginous plate which closes the foramen la- cerum medium (296), and divides into two twigs, a superior and an inferior. The Inferior or carotoid twig serves as a medium of communi- cation between the spheno-palatine ganglion, and the cavernous and superior cervical ganglia. It passes into the carotid canal ap- plying itself against the walls of the artery, and anastomoses with the filaments which the superior cervical ganglion sends to the sixth pair (I672), and cavernous ganglion. The Stiperior Twig, by a rather complex course, forms a com- munication between the spheno-palatine and sub-maxillary gan- glia. On leaving the vidian nerve, it enters into the cranium be- tween the petrous process and the sphenoid bone, and proceeds backwards and outwards over the upper surface of the former, where it is lodged in a small groove, and covered by the inferior maxillary nerve and the dura mater, to the last of which it firmly adheres. There it sends into the cavity of the tympanum, by two canals whose very minute orifices are seen in the groove one above the other, two excessively delicate filaments, which anastomose with each other upon the promontory, and communicate with ano- ther filament of the superior cervical ganglion and with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. It then glides along with a small artery into the hiatus of Fallopius, and arrives in the aqueduct of the same name, where it is applied against the trunk of the facial nerve, without anastomosing with it, (I676). It accompanies it until opposite the base of the pyramid of the tympanum, beneath which It penetrates into that cavity by an aperture of its own, winding upwards and outwards. After sending a filament to anastomose upon the promontory with a filament of the internal carotid plexus, (I875), it traverses the tympanum from behind forwards, placed at first under the incus, then between its long branch and the upper part of the handle of the malleus, against which it is directly ap- plied. Above the internal muscle of the malleus, it increases a little m size and consistence, and its direction becomes horizontal, but presently after it descends forwards and issues by the glenoid fis- sure, beside the tendon of the external muscle of the malleus. It then directs itself downwards, inwards, and forwards, and becomes attached to the lingual nerve of the inferior maxillary, (IGGG).