STRUCtUUE OF TWE tEEtH. 81 molar tooth which seemed to penetrate another.* There nre ex- amples of roots of hicisors that were double or triple. Those of molars are often undulated or convergent. Bertin says, that sometimes the root of the canine tooth enters the maxillary sinus, where it appears exposed.-f- Sometimes, on the contrary, the up- per incisors are destitute of roots and alveoli, &c. 3d, Varieties of Position. The teeth which iu this respect de- viate least from the normal state are the supernumerary teeth, which are formed in the natural row, or not far from it. But they may be developed in many other places. Thus teeth have some- times been met with on the palate,J and even in the pharynx.§ Albiuus mentions the case of two canine teeth of considerable length and size, which were concealed in the substance of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bones, and of which the body was directed upwards and the root downwards. Barnes found one in the orbit. II Those which have been observed in the ovaries were more probably the remains of extra-uterine conception.^ 4th, Varieties of stmcture aitd consiste7ice. These varieties are in general few in number, and are almost all dependent upon morbid causes. In the Ephemerides of the Academia Curiosorum Naturae, mention is made of cartilaginous teeth. 273. The teeth, whose direction is in general vertical or nearly so, are articulated with the alveoU of the two jaws. Their develop- ment presents very remarkable phenomena, respecting which we cannot here speak at length. Let it suffice to say, that the bony substance is deposited not in but rather ttpon the germ of the tooth, and that its outer laminas are first formed. The incisors and canine teeth are produced from a single centre of ossification. The grinders have one for each tubercle. 274. By their continuous series, the teeth form in the alveola* arches, two parabolic curved lines which are named the dentar arches. These arches, which are unequal, form together an oval, whose large extremity is represented by the upper arch, and the smaller by the lower. Their free edge in both is thin and simple anteriorly, thick and double on the sides. • Osteogr. t. ix. p. 7. f Osteol. t. ii. p. 241 ; Winslow, No, 372. t I l"'y. I'lj- ii. c. 13»; Eustach. lib. dc dcntihus, c. xxix; Sabaticr Anatoin. t. i. § Schenck de Giafonberg. lib. i. p. 18fl. II iVIedical and Chirurg 'fransact. vol. iv. No, 18. p, 316. delo M /T' f^"'"^'^;""' Blumenbach, Dumas, Bau- <ieio<iue, &.C. liave observed this phenomenon.