415 OF THE SPINAL MARROW. ' vertical surface, which constitutes the anterior wall of the fourth ' ventricle ; it is covered with a layer of grayish substance, and se- I parated in its whole length by a narrow angular groove, which ( commences at the aqueduct of Sylvius, and terminates in the spi- I nal marrow opposite the atlas. This groove is commonly named the I Calamus Scriptorius, on account of its forming an acute angle at i its termination, having some resemblance to the point of a pen. ; Several white and very delicate oblique lines proceeding from above ( downwards and from without inwards, meet in this groove. They ; seem to be a kind of bands slightly applied upon the surface of the protuberance. Haller, Vicq d'Azyr and Soemmering, consider these white filaments as the commencement of the portio mollis of I the seventh pair, but as their number and direction vary much, : and as they are sometimes wanting, Prochaska and Gall declare ; against this opinion. Of these lines, however, the upper pretty : generally go to the portio moUis, the middle and inferior to the I cerebellum. 1514. The upper extremity of the cerebral protuberance is broad i and prominent, and forms a sort of rim whose sides are continuous with the crura cerebri. The lotver extremity is less voluminous and : more rounded, and separated from the medulla oblongata by a 1 transverse groove, which is produced, not by an interruption in the continuity of the cerebral substance, but by the thickness of the transverse layers of the cerebral protuberance itself. Its sides . are united to the crura of the cerebellum. OF THE MEDULLA SPINALIS, CONSIDERED AS TO ITS EXTEUIOK. 1515. The Medulla Spinalis or Spinal Marrow, is a thick and long, irregularly cylindrical cord, which descends from the cerebral protuberance, within the vertebral canal, to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebra, and always lower in the adult than in the child.* Its weight varies from the nineteenth part, to the twenty-fifth part of that of the brain in the adult man; in the new-born child, it does not form more than the fortieth part.-f- The weight diminishes proportionally by desiccation, much more than that of the other portions of the cerebral organ. Its volume varies in the difterent parts of its extent. It is very bulging at its commencement, which is only distinguished from the cerebral pro- tuberance by a transverse depression; it. then contracts much, and again enlarges at the middle of the cervical region. After contracting a second time towards the end of that region, it ac- quires more thickness at the upper part of the back, then dimi- lushes in its lower part, to terminate at length by a kind of oval t,;!!";! ^" '"fantibus in regione ultima coste desinit, in adultis vero ulterius non "I'ui < escendit; Soeinm. De Corp. Hum. jab. torn. iv. p. 75. T Uiaiissier, Expos. Somm. p. 119.