ACTIVR ORGAN'S OF LOCOMOTION. 230 losing their ncurilema, so that the medullary substance of these i nerves would be in immediate contact with the muscular fibre. 786. When exposed to the air, after being cut into small pieces, , the muscular tissue dries up ; but if it be submitted in mass to the \ influence of that agent, it putrefies. In the former case, it acquires a brown colour, becomes hard, and to a certain degree transpa- rent ; in the latter, it becomes green, livid, very foetid, and often phosphorescent. In cold water it loses its red colour, and imparts it to the liquid in which it is immersed; assumes a straw-colour, softens at the end of a considerable period, and is converted into putrilage or adipocire. By repeated washing and squeezing, the I muscular parenchyma is reduced to the state of nearly pure fibrin t (8). In boiling water, on the contrary, it crisps and acquires a greater j: density ; at the end of some time, however, it softens, and has lost all power of curling under the influence of caloric or concentrated acid, as it did before boiling; the downy part seems to dissolve, and there only remain the fibres; the muscle has then lost the albumen, gelatin, fat and salts which formed part of its substance; , but still retains its form. It also in general putrefies less readily under these circumstances. 787- By the action of fire, the muscles are more deeply colour- ed, become denser at their outside, lose a part of their substance, which liquefies, and change their consistence and taste. Under the action of nitric acid, they are transformed into a yellow substance, and emit much azote. Alcohol, diluted acids, and solutions of alum, common salt, and nitrate of potash, increase their consis- tence. 788. The organic elements of the muscles are fat, gelatin, albu- men, a great quantity of fibrin, a principle of peculiar nature, coloured, soluble in alcohol, giving to broth its taste and smell, and named Osmazome* by M. Thenard, who discovered it. There also occur in these organs a colouring matter, somewhat dift'erent from that of the blood, carbonate, hydrochlorate and phosphate of soda, phosphate of lime, and oxide of iron. If the analysis is push- ed farther, the results obtained, are a great quantity of azote, hy^ | drogen, oxygen, carbon, iron, phosphorus, soda, and lime. \\ 789. The muscles, like the bones, may be divided into lo77ff, ^ broad, and short, and each of these kinds may present muscles, |i either simple or compound. jj 790. The simple muscles have all their fibres in a similar di- * rection. They are in general bulging, that is to say, present the form of an elongated fascicvdus, whose transverse outline is round- ed, and more or less inflated in the middle. This form depends upon the mode of insertion of the fleshy fibres, which, arising above and terminating below, one after another in succession, are so much less numerous, the nearer to each extremity they arc examined; the rectus femoris and supinator longus furnish • Offiri, odor; cucnknlum.