OF THE SACRAL NERVES. 609 the pyriformis muscle, and divides into a number of twigs, some of which enter the glutaeus minimus, and others the gluta;us niedius. OF THE SACRAL NERVES. (Nervi Sacrales). 1816. The sacral nerves are commonly six on each side, often five, and rarely four only. The first issues by the upper sacral holes, and the last by the notches which are observed at the upper part of the coccyx, or when there are only five, it escapes between that bone and the sacrum. Their size diminishes successively, So that the last two are very slender. 1817- These nerves arise from the lower part of the bulging vhich terminates the spinal marrow, by a double cord of filaments, as is the case with the vertebral nerves in general. These differ- ent cords descend vertically in the vertebral and sacral canals, form with those of the last lumbar pairs, the bundle known by the name of Cauda equina, and in other respects are precisely similar to the other nerves which arise from the sides of the spinal marrow ; only the ganglions of the posterior root, in place of occurring at the outer part of the hole from which they are transmitted, occupy the bony canal of the sacrum. The last three are even considera- bly distant from the inferior sacral hole, so that the common trunk which results from the union of the two cords, runs a certain course before entering them. 1818. The sacral nerves transmit, through the anterior holes of the sacrum, branches which diminish in volume from above down- wards, while on the contrary the posterior branches increase to the fourth, and then diminish.' OF THE FIRST SACRAL NERVE. 1819. Posterior Branch. Very small and rather shortj at its exit from the first posterior sacral hole, it communicates with that of the following nerve, then descends a little obliquely outwards be- fore the common origin of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi muscles, passes through it, furnishing it with a great number of filaments, and loses itself in the glutaeus maximus and skin. . 1820. Anterior Branch. It is about the same size as that of the fifth lumbar nerve. On issuing from the first anterior sacral hole, it communicates, by two filaments, with the sacral ganglia, then descends outwards along the upper edge of the pyriformis muscle, and joins, above, the lumbo-sacral nerve (1814), and below, the second sacral nerve, thus contributing to the formation of the sciatic plexus.