ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. 7C0 minatloii; their number varief5 from six or eight to twelve, and they are sometimes seen to commence near the middle and inner part of the thigh, and to form a string extending to the groin. Their colour is red in children, of a grayish white in adults, and brownish in old people. The deep inguinal ganglia, to the number of two, three, or four, are placed under the aponeurosis, and around the femoral artery. They are often wanting in old persons. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE PELVIS. 2774. Hypogastric Ganglia. They occupy, to the number of ten or fifteen, the lateral parts of the excavation of the pelvis, and are spread out around the internal iliac vessels. Very small lymphatic ganglia are frequently met with on the outside of the pelvis, in the course of the glut<x\al and ischiatic ar- teries, or in the interior of that cavity upon the bladder, the uterus, or the vesicuLne seminalcs. 2775. Sacral Ganglia. They arc placed before the sacrum, in the substance of the mcsorcctum, and are continuous laterally witit the preceding, and above with the mesocolic ganglia. 277^>- External Iliac Ganglia. Their number varies from six to ten, twelve, or fifteen. 1'hey are situated along the course of the external iliac vessels, and form a cord from the crural arch to the lower part of the vertebral column, where they are continuous with the lumbar ganglia. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 2777- Liimhar Ganglia. They are very numerous and of large size, and occupy the sides of the lumbar region of the vertebral co- lumn, placed between the transverse processes, or in the course of the vessels, or surrounding the aorta and vena cava inferior. They ascend upon the crvira of the diaphragm, and furnish the princijial roots of the thoracic duct. Some other ganglia, scattered over the renal arteries, seem to unite with them. 2778. Hepatic, Pancreatic, and Splenic Ganglia. They are situated around the vena portse, and along the splenic artery. They receive the lymphatic vessels of the liver, aorta, and pancreas. 2779. Mesenteric Ganglia. Very numerous, and in general of considerable size, they are placed between the two lamina? which constitute the mesentery. Their number, which is excessively va- riable, much exceeds a hundred. Their position is very irregular ; but from the intestine to about an inch from its concave edge, none are met with. Their size is so much the greater, the nearer they are observed to the place where the mesentery is in contact with 4