91 INNER SURFACE OF THE CRANIUM. that it gives passage to a small vein, which passes from the nose into the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. This much is certain, that a bristle or stylet cannot be passed through it, and that it is frequently formed at the expense of the frontal and eth- moid bones. 310. Behind the foramen ccecum, are observed the mark of the union of the frontal and ethmoid bones, the crista galli, the olfac- tory grooves with the holes and fissure which they present, a su- ture limiting them posteriorly, which results from the junction of the sphenoid with the ethmoid bone, and is continued laterally in- to that formed by the frontal bone and the processes of Ingrassias ; this suture is intersected at right angles by two others, formed by the junction of the ethmoid bone with the frontal, and presenting in their course two or three apertures, which are the cranial orifices of the internal orbitar foramina. 311. This first plane, which is limited posteriorly by the surface on which the olfactory nerves rest, and by the transverse channel which corresponds to the commissure of the optic nerves, presents in the same direction the two optic holes and the anterior clinoid processes, which are continuous with the posterior edge of the small wings of the sphenoid bone. Anteriorly to this edge is a convex uneven surface, presenting numerous cerebral impressions, formed by the fi-ontal bone and the sphenoid, and supporting on each side the anterior lobe of the brain. 312. The second plane is occupied in its centre by the sella tur- cica, in which several apertures are remarked. This fossa, which corresponds to the sphenoidal sinuses, presents posteriorly a square plate, the angles of which form the posterior clinoid processes, and on its sides, the cavernous grooves, together with the cranial ori- fices of the two small canals formed in the outer wall of the sphe- noidal sinuses. 313. Laterally, there is observed to the right and left a large fossa, wide externally, narrow within, of the form of a curvilinear triangle, extended from the sphenoidal fissure to the upper edge of the petrous process. In this fossa are remarked the spheno-tem- poral, squamous, spheno-parietal and petro-sphendidal sutures, to- gether with the sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius, the foramen rotundum, the foramen ovale, the foramen spinosum, and the hiatus of Fallopius. There are also observed in it several pretty distinct mammillary eminences, the foramen lacerum medium, m the margin of which is the opening of the carotid canal, and which pretty frequently even seems to be distinguished from it by a small projecting lamina of the sphenoid bone ; two arterial fur- rows, which arise from the spheno-spinous hole, and of which the largest, forming occasionally a canal at its commencement, goes to V ^T"^^ anterior angle of the parietal bone; the channel which lodges the superior petrous sinus ? the depression corres- ponding to the trunk of the trifacial nerve; and, lastly, an indis- tmct hole, sometimes wanting in adult age, frequently occurring