ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIONT. ^40 the splenius and scalenus posticus. Each of tliese tendons gives rise to a fleshy bundle ; that of the atlas is the longest and thick- est ; the others become more slender as they are more inferior. They are at first isolated, but unite below into a single bundle, which descends obliquely backwards and outwards, to be inserted by short tendinous fibres, into the posterior angle of the scapula, and the inner part of its upper edge. 815. Its outer surface is covered at its upper part by the ster- no-cleido-mastoideus, in the middle by the skin, and below by the trapezius. The inner is applied upon the sen-atus posti- cus superior, sacro-lumbalis, transversalis colli and splenius. Its posterior edge covers a portion of the upper edge of the rhom- boideus. 816. This muscle depresses tlie tip of the shoulder by raising the posterior angle of the scapula, which it causes to perform a ro- tatory motion. When it acts in concert with the trapezius, the shoulder is directly raised. It may also incline the neck to its side, or fix it in the erect position, when it acts in conjunction with its fellow, 817- The dissection of this muscle is effected, by removing the upper portion of the trapezius from its attachments to the spine of the scapula and the clavicle, and dissecting it inwards; by this means the lower part of the muscle is exposed ; if now the dissec- tor stretches the muscle by drawing down the upper angle of the scapula, he can easily expose the rest of the muscle by successively removing the skin which covers its middle part, and the superior extremity of the sterno-mastoid which covers its upper part. OF THE SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR. 818. This muscle, which is situated at the upper part of the back, is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, flat and very thin. It is attached to the lower part of the ligamentum nucluE, to the spinous processes of the last cervical, and two or three of the upper dorsal vertebrae, by a very delicate aponeurosis, extending to the half of its length, that is to say, to opposite the outer edge of the splenius and sacro-lumbalis, and mingling a little with the inser- tions of the rhomboideus, trapezius and splenius. The fibres of this aponeurosis are parallel and directed obhquely from above downwards and from within outwards ; the fleshy fibres follow the same direction, and separate into four digitations, which are at- tached to the outer surface and upper edge of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, the farther from their angle the lower they are. Sometimes there are only three of these digitations; in other cases there are five. I'hey always terminate by short aponeurotic fibres. 819. The posterior surface of this muscle is in connexion with