MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDKll. 305 backwards, and loses itself in the transverse and inferior metacarpal lio-ameut, forming with it and the connecting transverse fil)res, holes which are traversed by the lumbricales. The two lateral edges of this aponeurosis give attachment to two very thin and transparent prolongations which cover, externally and intcr- aally, the muscles of the tuumb and little finger. Its anterior t iurface is connected with the dermis by numerous fibres, and ad- heres to an adipose tissue disposed in small rounded masses. The msterior surface lies over the flexor tendons, the lumbricales, and :l;he vessels and nerves of the palm of the hand. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. OF THE DELTOID MUSCLE 1111. The Deltoid muscle, so named on account of its resemb- ang the Greek letter A, forms what is called the top of the shoulder, tt is thick, flat, triangular, broader above than below, curved upon self to embrace the shoulder joint, whence it descends to the outer idde of the arm, as far as its middle. It is composed of seven Jeshy bundles, separated by grooves more or less deep accord- ing to the individual, and divided into two orders. Those of the r.rst order, to the number of four, are broad and fleshy above, ontracted below, and terminate by strong tendons. One of them, titrengthened behind by a transverse fibrous band which unites ihe acromio-coracoid ligament to the pectoralis major, arises "(Tom the outer third of the anterior edge of the clavicle, by small pponeuroses, and descends obliquely outwards. Another is insert- dd externally into the acromion by various aponeurotic fasciculi, ' Vhich are more or less prolonged in or over the fleshy fibres; it lescends vertically. The two last proceed from the posterior edge 'fthe spine of the scapula, where they are attached by means of m aponeurosis which unites with those of the trapezius and infra- pinatus, and are directed obliquely downwards and forwards. The •undies of the second order, to the number of three, are placed in he interval of these latter, between which they seem to ascend, to erminate in a point at the commencing aponeurosis. All these lifferent bundles, which are themselves formed of fleshy fibres dis- posed in secondary bundles, are united below into a very strong nangular tendon, broad and thick, little apparent externally, but Prolonged to a great length upon the inner surface of the muscle, "nexQ each bundle furnishes a portion to it; this tendon is attach- ed to the deltoid impression of the humerus, over an extent of about m inch and a half. At its termination, it is embraced by a bifur- ation of the brachialis internus (1141). 1112. The outer surface of the deltoid muscle is convex, and I ."^^"^cd by the skin and platysma myoides above. The inner snr^ I 'ice, which is concave, is applied from behind forwards, and from I