lOG PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the meeting of the nasal and upper maxillary bones with the frontal bone; it is continued laterally into those of tlie internal orbitar processes and lachrymal bones ; then there is observed, to the outside of the orbit, the suture which the frontal and sphenoid bones form with the malar bone; then that of the malar bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone; and lastly, the su- ture formed between the ascending portion of the palate bone and the pterygoid process ; the latter is vertical, and very indistinctly marked. We ought also to include among the sutures of this class those which result from the articulation of the vomer with the sphenoid bone, of the inferior turbinated bones with the ethmoid, and of the latter bone with the palate and vipper maxillary bones, always observing, that for the most part they present but very indistinct serratures, and that some of them even are nothing more than mere juxtaposition of surfaces. OF THE TEMPORAL, ZYGOMATIC, AND SPHENO-MAXILLARY FOSS/E. 364. We have already, in part, described the temporal fossa, (303). When the head is entire, it is limited below by the zy- gomatic arch, (arcus xi/gomaticus), a sort of bony projection form- ed by the temporal and malar bones : this arch is directed for- wards, has a double curvature, so as to be at once convex above and convex outwards, and is separated from the rest of the bones by a large empty space, which is filled up by the temporal muscle ; in its middle it presents a suture which results from the union of the two bones of which it is constituted, and which is so disposed that the temporal rests upon the malar, | their edges being here ob- lique : this suture is very distinctly serrated. Before the zygo- matic arch, the temporal fossa is completed by a portion of the posterior aspect of the malar bone, in which are seen two or three small vascular apertures. Posteriorly, a transverse ridge, formed upon the sphenoid bone, separates this fossa from the zygomatic. 365. Zygomatic Fossa.—This name is given to the space com- prised between the posterior edge of the outer wing of the ptery- goid process and the ridge which descends from the malar tubero- sity. We have already pointed out (336) most of the objects that are met with upon it; what we have now to say is, that the maxil- lary tuberosity is separated, above, from the pterygoid process, by a fissure which gives passage to the internal maxillary artery, and which Bichat has named the pterygo-maxillary fissure: it is vertical, broad above, and narrow below ; it unites in the former direction, nearly at a right angle, with the spheno-maxillary fissure; and be- low, it is continued into two small vertical sutures, very close to each other, only separated a little below, formed by the articula- tion of the palate bone with the pterygoid process on the one hand, and the maxillary tuberosity on the other. The pterygo- maxillary fissure leads into: