OF THE SACRAL GANGLIA. Some more delicate filaments arise from these latter, or from tire first, and lose themselves in the psoas magnus. INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1926. These filaments are numerous and very slender. They interlace frequently with each other, and form a very complicated net-work before the abdominal aorta. They are often intermingled with small ganglia. This aortic plewtis sends numerous filaments to the splenic, he- patic, renal, spermatic and mesenteric plexuses, which we have al- ready seen. It also sends some upon the common iliac and hypo- gastric arteries. Lastly, it is continued into the hypogastric plexus, which we shall presently examine. Some of those of the right side anastomose with those of the left side, passing under the aorta, OF THE SACRAL GANGLIA. 1927- Of these there are three or four on each side. They lie upon the sides of the anterior surface of the sacrum, so much the nearer to the median line the lower they are, frequently occupying the orifice of the anterior sacral holes, covered by the peritoneum, and immersed in the adipose tissue of the pelvis. They vary in form and size. Their colour is pale, and their consistence soft. They all communicate together by filaments which are more or less long, and resemble those of the lumbar ganglia (1924) ; moreover, the first almost always communicates with the last lumbar ganglion. Their filaments are distinguished into external, internal, and ante- rior. The latter contribute especially to form the hypogastric plexus. EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. *« 1928. Pretty numerous, and of considerable thickness, but very : short, these arise by fasciculi, and go to anastomose with the ante- 1 rior branches of the sacral nerves (1816). Others more slender : are distributed to the pyriformis and levator ani muscles, sf t ■ INTERNAL FILAMENTS. • f ' 1929. Their number is indeterminate ; those of one side anasto- ! raose with those of the opposite side upon the middle of the sac- r rum, where they form a kind of plexus.