ORGANS OF SECRETION. 78G by a multitude of vascular ramifications ; but there is no artery which peculiarly belongs to itself There is this remarkable dif- ference between them, however, that while the salivary ducts have a pretty long course after leaving the glands, the pancreatic duct is free and isolated only for a very short space. 2891. The arteries of the pancreas are very numerous, but their size is very small. They come from the ca'liac, splenic, superior mesenteric, right gastro-epiploic, coronary, and left capsular arte- ries. Its veins pour their contents into the roots of the vena por- toe, and in particular into the small mesaraic and splenic veins. Its nerves are supplied by the solar plexus ; and its lymphatics go to be divided in ganglions to which it gives its name (2778). 2892. The pancreas secretes a fluid which appears to have much resemblance to the saliva, and which mingles with the bile to be poured into the duodenum. OF THE ORGANS OF THE SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE BILE. Of the Liver. GKNEHAL CONFOHMATION. 2893. The Liver* is the largest of all the glands. It is a single, unsymmetrical organ, very dense, of great weight, easily torn, and of a reddish brown colour. It occupies the whole right hypochondrium, and a part of the epigastric region. Its general form is irregular, but approaches to that of the section of an ovoid made in the direction of its length. Its absolute weight, in the adult, varies, according to Soemmering's experiments, from two to five povnids, and its specific gravity is 15,203. Limited above by the diaphragm, it is protected anteriorly by the base of the thorax, beyond which it does not pass in the sound state, al- though it may be liable to undergo some slight changes of position, according to the state of the neighbouring organs, and the posture of the body. 2894. U'pyer Surface of the Liver. It is convex in its whole extent, more so, however, to the right side and posterioi-ly than elsewhere. It is turned directly upwards at the left extremity; in the middle it looks backwards ; and to the right, is inclined straight outwards. It is everywhere contiguous with the diaphragm, which it even seems to push upwards, rendering it more concave on the right side than on the left. A fold of the peritoneum (S^ispcti- sory LAgament of the Liver) divides it from before backwards into two unequal portions, which are named the Great or liight Lobe '■Hrag of the Greeks, Jccur of the Latins. I