MUSCLES Ol- THE SHOULDER. S09 tion is combined with that of the latibsimus dorsi and pcetorahs major, it applies the arm against the thorax. It is consequently 1 an antagonist of the two preceding muscles. 1126. We have aleady several times made mention of the axilla or arm-pit, of which the teres major, as we have just said, forms the posterior edge. The cuvilla is the angle or cavity that lies be- neath the junction of the arm with the shoulder, and is li- mited before by a portion of the pectoralis major, and behind by a part of the latissimus dorsi. The form of this cavity varies in the ({different positions of the arm. The skin by which it is lined is soft and delicate, covered with hairs, and attached to the adjacent iparts by a loose filamentous laminar tissue, capable of great exten- sion. It is filled with sebaceous foUicles which furnish an excre- ttion, having a strong smell, and more or less coloured. Beneath the skin, and in the midst of the adipose tissue, there are seen se- veral lymphatic ganglia, nerves, and vessels, which it is of great iiimportance to knoAv. OF THE SUBSCAPULAlllS. 1127. The Subscapularis is a very thick triangular muscle, which occupies the whole of the subscapular fossa, from the three i nferior fourths of which it arises, both from its periosteum, and rrom three or four aponeurotic partitions between the fleshy fibres, »which are themselves attached to the oblique bony ridges presented py the scapula at this place. Some of its fleshy fibres also come rTom another aponeurotic septum, placed between it and the pre- ceding muscle. They are disposed into five or six distinct bundles ^hich converge together, and proceed outwards, the upper horizon- tally, and the lower more and more obliquely. They are attached oto the two surfaces of a broad and flat tendon, which appears to we its first origin to the aponeurotic partitions of the muscle; ithis tendon contracts and becomes thicker, and terminates at the WfiiaU tuberosity of the humerus by embracing it. It adheres hstrbngly to the capsule of the joint, which presents beneath it a ■true opening (655), so as there to be in immediate contact with >the synovial membrane of the articulation, above which there fre- quently occurs another smaller hole, which communicates with it. ^oine of the lower fibres of the muscle are attached directly to the humerus, beneath its small tuberosity. 1128. The anterior surface of the subscapularis, which is con- cave mtcrna'lly, and convex outwards, is separated from the serra- tus magnus, with which it forms the hollow of the axilla, by a very thick layer of cellular tissue (1089). Its outer part corresponds to brachial plexus, axillary artery, and coraco-brachialis, biceps, ^"1 ,f^ ^"''^ muscles. Its posterior surface covers the scapula, mu beyond that bone it is in connexion with the teres major and