OF THE PHAUYNX. do I 2127. The arteries of the palate and gums come from the pa- lilatme, alveohir, infra-orbitar, facial and buccal branches, and for the ; lower gums in particular, from the submental and mental. The \ veins correspond to the arteries. The nerves are furnished by the 1 palatine (186H), facial, infra-orbitar, superior and inferior dentar ; nerves, and by the oaso-palatine ganglion (1873,2°). Of the Pharynx.* ■I GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2128. The Pharynx is a kind of musculo-membraneous, sym- 1 metrical canal, placed in the median line of the body, and irregu- !larly funnel-shaped. It extends from the base of the skull to near tthe middle of the neck. Limited above by the basilar process of tthe occipital bone, it is continuous below with the oesophagus, and ' anteriorly with the nasal fossse, the mouth, and the cavity of the ! larynx, corresponding to the velum palati in their interval. Pos- ■ teriorly, it rests upon the vertebral column and the longi colli and r recti capitis antici muscles. On its sides, it is in contact with the c common and internal carotid arteries, with the internal jugular 1 "freins, the pneumo-gastric nerves, and, at its uppermost part, with 1 a small portion of the internal pterygoid muscles. It is connected i^th these different parts by a lamellar cellular tissue, destitute of i fat, and very extensile. 2129. The cavity of the pharynx, which is of a form that < cannot be precisely described, has no wall anteriorly, opposite \the nasal fossae and mouth. Vertically elongated, it is narrow I above, where it is limited on each side by the pterygoid processes ; i in the middle it becomes much wider, extending there as far as the I extremities of the great horns of the hyoid bone and the thyroid I cartilage. Below, it gradually contracts until opposite the trachea, 'where the oesophagus commences. From this disposition, the ] pharynx really exists only behind. It is therefore in reality rather i a mere half cavity than an entire one. From the base of the : skull to below the aperture of the larynx, its walls are always se- ] parated, while farther down they are in contact with each other. 2130. The Inner Surface of the pharynx may be viewed as con- ! sisting of several walls. The posterior, which is flattened, presents 1 nothing remarkable, and may be perceived at the bottom of the 1 mouth when the latter is opened. The anterior presents, above, ' the posterior apertures of the nasal fossae, at the middle, the poste- 1 nor surface of the velum palati and uvula, farther down, the gut- I tural aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, I Hie entrance of the larynx, and lastly, the posterior surface of that I' organ. The two lateral walls are narrow; at their upper park " 'Pa^uy'i of tlic Greeks.