OF THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. positc the joint. It almost immediately passes horizontally, from behind forwards, through the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and divides into two branches, one of which descends behind the crucial ligaments, and loses itself in the neighbouring cellular tis- sue, while the other dives into the depression which separates the two condyles of the femur, and is distributed in the fat which oc-; curs there, giving twigs to all the parts of the joint. Branches which the Popliteal Artery gives off at the upper part cf! the Leg. 2639- Of the Arteries of the Gastrocnemii Muscles. (Artp- rice Sarales). These arteries are two in number, and come off from the posterior and lateral parts, of the popliteal artery, separat- ed from each other at their commencement by the sciatic nerve. They direct themselves obliquely backwards, and gain the middle of the anterior surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. T^iey then dive into its substance, and terminate towards the place where it is united to the solevis by an aponeurosis. Near their origin, they give off some twigs to the plantaris and popliteus. 264)0. Of the Internal Inferior Articular Artery. {Art. Artie. Genu. Inf. Interna). It arises externally from the popliteal artery above the popUteus muscle, descends obliquely inwards, under the sciatic nerve and internal head of the gastrocnemius muscle. It winds over the corresponding tuberosity of the tibia, between the bone and the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint and the united tendons of the sartorius, gracilis and semitendinosus muscles. It then curves from beneath upwards, and ascends along the inner edge of the ligament of the patella, as far as the lower part of that bone, where it anastomoses with a branch of the internal superior articular artery, and with twigs of the external inferior articular. 2641. It gives off some small twigs to the popliteus and inter- nal head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The others are spread out upon the inner side of the articulation, upon the periosteum of the tibia, and even in the integuments. 2642. Of the External Inferior Articular Artery. (Art. artic. genu. inf. exterjia). It arises externally from the popliteal artery, farther down than the preceding, concealed at its origin by the plantaris muscle, under the outer condyle of the femur. It des- cends obhquely outwards, above the soleus muscle, between the popliteus and external head of the gastrocnemius, and enters be- neath the tendon of the biceps femoris and the external lateral li- gament of the knee joint. It gives twigs to all these muscles, then winds over the convex edge of the external semilunar fibro- cartilage, and advances transversely as far as the lower part of the patella. There, it divides into two twigs, a deep one, which first supplies some ramifications which descend upon the tibia, and anas-, tomose with those of the recurrent twig of the anterior tibial ar-