ORGANS OF SENSATION. 460 It is opposite the middle of the inner wall of the orbit that th nasal nerve undergoes its last division. The two branches whicl result from it are of equal size. One, internal and posterior, pene trates into the nasal fossae; the other is anterior, and distributed externally of the orbit. 1653. Internal Nasal Branch, (nervus nasalis.) Its course is very remarkable. Accompanied by a small artery, it passes into the internal and anterior orbitar hole, directs itself inwards and up- wards in the canal of which that hole is the aperture, issues from it to enter the cranium under the dura mater, which covers it, and keeps it down in a bony groove, until it reaches the sides of the crista galli.—There, it penetrates, without having furnished any filament to the dura mater, and without anastomising with the ol- factory nerve, into a small fissure which exists at the anterior part of the ethmoid grooves, and thus reaches the vault of the nasal fos- sae, where it increases in size and subdivides into two hlaraents, the one internal and the other external. The first descends over the anterior part of the septum between the two laminic of the pituitary membrane. After a short passage it divides into two other filaments ; one of these is very thin, and descends upon the posterior surface of the nasal bone, lodged in a bony groove, or even a true canal, which commences at the nasal spine of the frontal bone. It then emerges between the ossa nasi and the lateral portion of the nasal cartilage, increases in size and solidity, and ramifies in the integuments of the lobe. The other, which is a little stronger, descends upon the pituitary membrane, until opposite the edge of the septum, and terminates near its base. The second furnishes, almost at its commencement, a filament which enters into a bony canal formed behind the nasal bone, or on the nasal spine of the frontal bone. It emerges beneath the mem- brane inferiorly, where it passes through one of the small holes ob- served on these bones, to terminate in the skin. Afterwards there are seen to arise two or three other filaments, which descend to the anterior part of the outer wall of the nasal fossae as far as the in- ferior turbinated bone. Sometimes one of them is contained in a bony canal. I have not been able to meet with the filaments, which several anatomists describe as coming from the internal nasal nerve, in the frontal sinuses and ethmoid cells. 1654. External Nasal Brafich, (Nervus Infra-trochlearis). It proceeds in the original direction of the nerve, along the inner wall of the orbit, and on arriving beneath the cartilaginous pulley of the obliquus oculi superior muscle, anatomoses with a lilament of the internal frontal nerve, issues from the orbit, and divides in- to several filaments which are distributed to the upper eyelid, where they unite with the filaments of the internal frontal nerve ; to the lower eyelid, where they meet those of the infra-orbitar and facial nerves; to the caruncula lachrymalis; the lachrymal sac; the-