PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 12 cavity, named the medullary canal, which renders the bones stronger without increasing the quantity of matter entering into their com- position, and is larger in old than in young individuals. This ca- vity is divided into numerous cells by the filaments of the reticular tissue, already mentioned, which extend in different directions from one wall to the other. 30. The body of these bones, which is whiter than the rest of their extent, is every where composed of a very thick compact tissue, of which a very thin layer only covers the spongy substance of their extremities; the fibres of this compact tissue have a longitudinal disposition, althovigh they are inclined over each other in all direc- tions, forming numerous connexions by means of transverse and oblique fibres, and constituting superimposed plates. 31. The Flat or Broad hones (Ossa lata sive plana) are for the most part destined to protect important viscera, and by uniting to- gether form the walls of certain cavities, such as those of the cra- nium, pelvis, &c. They are almost all bent upon themselves, and their margin, which is generally a little thickened, forms articula- tions, or affords insertion to muscles. They are formed of cellular tissue contained between two thin tables of compact tissue, whose fibres are frequently radiated. In the bones of the skull in particular, this cellular tissue has received the name of Dlploe or Meditullium. 32. The Short Bones {Ossa crassa) are always of small dimen- sions, and generally globular, tetrahedral, cuboidal, cuneiform, or polyhedral. They occur associated in great numbers in the regions which they occupy, as in the tarsus, carpus, and vertebral column. Their surface, which is always uneven, presents many cavities and eminences ; and, like the flat bones, they have no medullary canal. In general also, their articulating surfaces are broad. These bones are composed of cellular tissue, surrounded by a I thin compact lamina, with fibres crossing each other in all direc-i tions. Their whiteness is never so great as that of the flat bones,! nor of the bodies of the long ones. 33. The surface of the bones is often surmounted by eminences,! to which the general name of Apophysis* or Process,■\ is given., During the earlier periods of life, however, these eminences are for: the most part called Epiphyses, % because they are then separated from the rest of the bone by a cartilaginous substance, which isi not the case at a more advanced stage, when all the processes are; perfectly continuous with the substance of the bones, and form part of the same body. * A ^ojui>fi.a.i,itascurdc,cTorior. f Processus, ;;;-ocerfo. $ Ew/^MiKom, arfnajcor.