812 ORGANS OF GENERATION. sue, which is very dense and firm, is of a nature very difficult to be well described. It is filled internally with a great number of small follicles containing a viscid, ropy fluid of a whitish colour. From these follicles arise excretory ducts which collect to the number of ten or fifteen, and open in the urethra, on the sides and at the sur- face of the verumontanum. By compressing the prostate gland, •the fluid which it contains may be made to distil from the orifices of these ducts. OF COWl'Ell's GLANDS. 2990. Cowper's Glands (Accessory Glands,) are two small gra- nulated, oblong or rounded, glandular bodies, placed parallel to each other before the prostate, on the sides of the urethra, and above the acceleratores virinse muscles. They are about the size of a pea, of a reddish colour, and of a tissue which is pi*etty firm and resembhng that of the salivary glands. These glands, which are sometimes wanting, have each an excretory duct about six lines in length, which creeps obliquely inwards and forwards in the spongy tissue of the urethra, and opens before the verumontanum. A small gland of the same nature has sometimes been met with in the angle formed by the union of the two roots of the corpus ca- vern osum. OF THE EJACULATORY DUCTS. 2991. The Ejaculatory Ducts (Ductus ejacidatorii) are formed by the junction at an acute angle of the vasa deferentia with those which terminate the vesiculae seminales. They are of a conical form, and about an inch in length. They proceed forwards, pa- rallel to each other, in the substance of the prostate gland, unite with each other, contracting considerably, and open into the urethra by two small oblong orifices, situated upon the lateral and anterior parts of the verumontanum. Before their termination, they bend a little outwards. OF THE PENIS. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2992. The Penis (Memhrum virile) is destined to pour into the genital parts of the female the prolific fluid secreted by the testi- cles. It is a cylindrical, elongated, erectile organ, situated at the anterior, inferior, and middle part of the abdomen, beneath and be- fore the symphysis pubis. In the ordinary state, tlic penis is soft and pendent before the