136 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE OS UNCIFOUJME. 468. Next to the os magnum, this is the largest of the bones of the carpus, of which it occupies the inner and lower part; it is somewhat of the form of a wedge, with the base directed down- wards. Its upper surface, which is extremely narrow, is rounded and smooth, and is articulated to the semilunar bone. The lower surface is divided into two facets, which rest upon the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. The posterior is triangular and uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments. The anterior bears internally and below a large eminence, curved outwards, which affords at- tachment to the annular ligament of the wrist, and some of the muscles of the little finger. The outer is smooth above and be- hind, to be articulated with the os magnum, uneven before and be- low, where it gives insertion to ligaments. The inner, which is very oblique, is concave downwards and backwards, convex above and before, and is articulated to the cuneiform bone. 469. Structure and Development. All the bones of the car- pus are formed of a loose and spongy tissue, which in the recent state is filled with a great quantity of fluid ; a very thin layer of compact tissue invests their surface. They are each developed by a single point of ossification, excepting the os unciforme, which has two. The pisiform bone does not begin to ossify until about the age of twelve. In describing each of the carpal bones, we have al- ready sufficiently pointed out their articulations, to render it unne- cessary to recur to them here. OF THE METACARPAL BONES.* {Ossa Metacarpi.) OF THE FIRST METACARPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Pollicis.) 470. This bone, like all those of the metacarpus, belongs to the class of long bones; it is shorter and thicker than the four others. Its body is a little curved from behind forwards; it is convex and covered by the tendons of the extensors of the thumb at its back part, and presents anteriorly, in the middle, a longitudinal ridge which gives attachment to the opponens and flexor brevis pollicis; internally and at the upper part, where it is very narrow, the first dorsal interosseous muscle is attached. Its upper or carpal ex- tremity, supports a smooth articular surface, concave from behind • Mjtu!, post ; Ka^rn, carpus.