OF THE LACHRYMAL SAC. 779 and downwards along the inner part of the free edge of the eyelid, immediately beneath the conjunctiva. The inferior lachrymal duct also at first descends nearly vertically, then directs itself inwards in the same manner, ascending a little to place itself beside the su- perior. Both in fact, opposite the commissure of the eyelids, pro- ceed alongside of each other, without uniting, and separated by a very thin partition, behind the tendon of the orbicularis palpebra- rum, as far as the lachrymal sac, into the middle part of the outer side of which they open separately. In some cases, although rare- ■ ly, they are seen to unite before entering the sac. 2864. The lachrymal ducts seem to be formed merely of a very deUcate prolongation of the conjunctiva, which is thus continuous ' with the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac. OF THE LACHRYMAL SAC. 2865. The Lachrymal Sac (Saccus Lachrymalis^ is a small , membraneous bag, lodged at the inner angle of the orbit, in the \ channel formed by the lachrymal bone and the ascending process ' of the upper maxillary bone. It presents the form of an ovoid, si- tuated vertically and a little compressed from without inwards. Its outer side is covered anteriorly by the skin, the orbicularis palpe- brarum, and its tendon, which divides it transversely into two por- tions, the lower of which is narrower and more elongated than the upper. Posteriorly, it corresponds to the caruncula lachrymalis and the conjunctiva, and furnishes some insertions to the inferior oblique muscle of the eye. Its inner side fills the lachrymal groove (349), to the bones constituting which it is closely attach- ed. Its upper extremity, which is dilated and rounded, forms a more or less remarkable prominence above the tendon of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum. The inferior extremity is continuous with the nasal canal. 2866. In its interior, the lachrymal sac is lined by a mucous membrane, which is continuous with the mucous membranes of the eye and nasal fossae. Its colour is reddish. The existence of crypts or follicles cannot be discovered in it, although it is very soft and as it were pulpy. It is always covered with mucous. 2867. M the exterior, the lachrymal sac is formed by a fibrous aponeurotic membrane, which many anatomists have considered as the reflected tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum. This mem- * brane, which is white, dense and strong, is fixed on all sides to the I bony edge of the lachrymal groove. Anteriorly, it is intimately united to the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum and to some of its fleshy fibres, to which it even gives insertion. It may also, in a certain degree, be considered as a prolongation of it. 2868. The arterial ramifications of the lachrymal sac are espe- cially derived from the palpebral arteries. Its nervous filaments come from the external nasal nerve.