505 OF THE LUMBAR NERVES AND PLEXUS. second and fourth lumbar nejrves, and witli the lumbar ganglia, contributing also to the formation of the lumbo-abdominal plexus. OF THE FOURTH AND FIFTH LUMBAR NERVES. 1800. Posterior Branches. They are both very small, and lose themselves in the fleshy mass of the sacro-lumbalis and longis- simus dorsi muscles, without going so far as the aponeurosis which covers them. They also send some filaments into the multifidus spina; muscle. 1801. Antei'ior Branches. They communicate with each other, and with the lumbar ganglia. That of the fourth nerve receives a branch from the third, and that of the fifth terminates the lumbo- abdominal plexus, descending into the pelvis to throw itself into the sciatic plexus. "^^F THE LUMB0-A3D0MINAL OR LUMBAR PLEXUS. 1802. Formed by the union of the anterior branches of the five lumbar nerves, which all send twigs to it, this plexus is situated on the lateral parts of the bodies of the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrse, before the base of their transverse processes, and behind the psoas miignus. It represents a kind of elongated cord, very narrow above, much broader below, where the nerves unite with each other farther from the vertebral column than above. It com- municates above with the anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal Herve (1792), and below with the sacral plexus, by the anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve (1801). It is terminated inferi- orly by three cords which are named the crural, obturator, and lumbo-sacral nerves, and previously furnishes some branches which are named musculo-cutaneous and genito-crural. OF THE MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS BRANCHES. 1803. They are commonly three in number; but present a multitude of variations, both in their disposition, and mode of origm. In general, they direct themselves outwards, under the peritoneum, towards the iliac crest, there penetrate into the muscles of the abdomen and become sub-cutaneous. 1804. Superior or Ilio-scrotal Branch. It evidently arises from the first lumbar nerve, traverses the upper part of the psoas jnagnus, and descends obliquely outwards upon the quadratus lum- borum, as far as the posterior part of the iliac crest. There it is lodged in a groove which the transversus abdominis forms at its at- tachment to the crest, and sends some twigs to that muscle and the liiacus nitevnus. Towards the anterior third of the iliac crest, it