PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 230 ARTICULATIONS OF THE CUNEIFOUM BONES WITH EACH OTHEB. 765. The cuneiform bones are mutually articulated by surfaces covered with cartilage. Two ligaments directed transversely, which seem united into one, fasten them at their upper part, passing from the dorsal surface of the middle, to those of the external and inter- nal. Two other ligaments, transverse also, but less distinct, and covered by a prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, proceed from the plantar surface of the second to those of the first and third also; that on the inside, is much stronger than that which is on the outer. Between the articular surfaces there are observed some interosseous fibres. The synovial membrane is the same as that of the preceding articulation. ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE TARSUS AND METATARSUS. 766. We have already pointed out the disposition of the sur- faces contributing to the formation of tliese articulations (527, 533), which are so many very close, plain arthrodiae. They are invested by a thin cartilage, and kept in connexion by dorsal and plantar ligaments. There are also observed synovial capsules in them. 767. Do7-sal Ligaments. Each of the metatarsal bones receives one from each of the tarsal bones with which it is connected. Thus, the first presents a broad and thin ligament which comes from the internal cuneiform bone ; the second three, which come from the three cuneiform bones, and unite by converging, at the upper part of its posterior extremity ; the third has one which comes from the third cuneiform bone, and sometimes a second from the os cuboides ; lastly, the latter bone gives one to the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. All these ligaments are covered by the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes, and applied over the synovial capsules. 768. Plantar Ligaments. These are equal in number to th^ dorsal ligaments, and disposed nearly in the same manner. That of the first metatarsal bone is very strong; it is attached to the tuberosity, is observed at the lower part of its posterior extre- mity, and comes from the anterior part of the base of the first cuneiform bone. The internal plantar ligament of the second met- tatarsal bone is also remarkable for its thickness and length ; it sends some fibres to the third metatarsal bone; the two otliers are covered by a prolongation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus^ The other ligaments present nothing particular. The sheaths of the tendons which are observed in the sole of the foot, and espcr cially that of the peroneus longus, contribute much to strengtiien all these ligaments.