109 OF THE PELVIS. supports or conttiins part of the intestines, and the urinary and ge- nital organs. As a powerful bony girdle, it affords articulation to the abdominal extremities, gives insertion to their muscles, and is subservient to the performance of their motions. * In the adult, it is situated nearly in the middle part of the body, and is composed of four broad and flat bones, differing much in their form, size, and situation. Of these bones, two, the Sacrum and Coccyx, are placed behind in the median line, and two anteriorly and on the sides^ the Ossa iiinominata. OF THE SACEUM. 371. The Sacrum {os sacrum), is symmetrical, triangular, cur- ved forwards below, and situated at the posterior part of the pelvis, between the two ossa innominata, where it is fixed in Uke a wedge, in such a way as to have its base above, to be joined with the last lumbar vertebra, and its apex below, to be connected with the coc- cyx. There is in it throughout its whole length a canal named the Sacral, which is a continuation of the vertebral. It presents the following parts. 372. A Spinal or Posterior Aspect. It is convex, very uneven and rough, and presents, in the median line, three, four or five ho- rizontal eminences, the upper of which are the longest, which cor- respond to the spinous processes of the vertebrae ; these eminences are frequently united together, and thus form a continued longitu- dinal ridge. Beneath them, the sacral canal terminates, under the appearance of a triangular channel, limited on the sides by two tu- bercles which unite superiorly with the last of the above eminences, and by their projection downwards form notches which transmit the last sacral nerves. These tubercles are named Horns of the Sacrum, (cornua sacralia ;) they sometimes unite with emmences on the base of the coccyx. 373. On the sides of these eminences are observed two broad and superficial channels, which seem to form the continuation of the vertebral grooves, and which are covered by the origins of the muscles by which the latter are filled up. These channels are per- forated by four holes named tha posterior sacral foramina, (forami^ na sacralia posterioraj which are placed vertically beneath each ptfier, dimmishing in size as they proceed downwards, and are very irregular xn their margin; they communicate with the sacral canal, ana give passage to the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. £ name°W,S it bears'"''''''''*^ ^^^^'^ ^''^ assigned it tlie particu. tlie Zms extremities are wanting, as in some animals, (tlic cetacca) tlie spinal columV*' '^'^'^ rudiments, and liave no direct articulation with cnlntrK'^!?!!,^'^' wcrerf was given by tlie ancients to a great number of differ- i IS, dnu especially to several of tliose wbicli are subservient to generation.