MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 261 precautious as with regard to the frontalis. By extending these incisions, tlic whole of the epicranial aponeurosis may be dissected. OF THE SUrERIOR. AUllIS. (Attollens Aurivulam.) 884'. This muscle is situated on the temple, above the ear. It is thin and membranous, broad above, narrow below, and of a tri- angular form. It is attached by its summit to the fore and inner part of the fibre-cartilage of the ear, on the convexity which is formed by the upper part of the concha, and ascends from thence, in a radiating manner, to the epicranial aponeurosis, where it termi- nates. It is entirely fleshy, excepting at its summit, where there are observed some fibrous parts. 885. Its outer surface is covered by the skin, while the inner covers the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. Its posterior edge is very short and oblique. The anterior is confounded with the next muscle. 886. It raises the ear, and stretches the epicranial aponeurosis. OF THE ANTERIOR AURIS. {Prior AuriculcB.) 887. It is of the same form as the preceding muscle, but less apr parent, and is situated on the temple, before the ear. Its summit is attached to the fore part of the helix, and from this point its fibres proceed, separating considerably from each other, to termi- nate on the outside of the epicranial aponeurosis, near the frontal muscle. 888. Its outer surface is covered by the skin; the inner is ap- pUed upon the temporal muscle and artery. Its upper edge is con- founded with the preceding muscle, while the lower is lost in the cellular tissue above the zygomatic arch. B89. It carries the ear forwards and upwards. OF THE POSTERIOR AURIS. {Musculi Retrahentes Auriculam.) B90. This m fib 890. This muscle consists of one or more small bundles of fleshy fibres, thin, flat, or fusiform, rather irregular, and situated behind the ear. They arc attached by short aponeuroses to the mastoid process, whence tlicy proceed horizontally forwards to terminate at tiie lower part of the convexity formed by tlie concha of the car.