551 OF THE SCLEKOTICA. covered in it. In the eye of the foetus only, the sclerotica may be separated into two distinct laminae. Some anatomists have sup,, posed its inner lamina to be a prolongation of the pia mater ; but this opinion appears to have no foundation. OF THE CORNEA. 1956. The Cornea, {Cornea Pellucida), is of a nearly circular form, convex anteriorly, transparent, and constitutes the anterior fifth of the eye ; it is enchased in the great aperture of the sclero- tica (1954), and presents the appearance of a segment of a smaller sphere added to a larger, whose diameter is seven or seven and a half lines, while the chord of the segment itself is five lines. The transverse diameter of the cornea is a little larger than the vertical. It is also a little broader on the side next the nose than on the opposite side. Its anterior surface, which is convex and prominent, is covered by a kind of peculiar mucous layer, distinct from the conjunctiva, which is itself defended by an epidermis of its own. The posterior surface is lined by the membrane of the aqueous humour, and limits the anterior chamber of the eye, a space comprised between the iris and cornea. The circumference of the cornea, which is cut obliquely at the expense of its outer surface, is covered by a cor- responding slope on the edge of the sclerotica, and adheres inti- mately to it. 1957. The cornea is thicker than the sclerotica, but it is not fibrous. Its tissue is composed of six distinct laminae, superimpos- ed upon each other, easily separable, the anterior of which seem to adhere less intimately. It does not appear to contain either nerves or blood-vessels ; but there evidently exists a serous fluid betweea the laminae which compose it, and on squeezing the membrane, this serum is distinctly seen to ooze out in the form of small drops. It becomes opaque when immersed in boiling water, alcohol or an acid. OF THE CHOROID MEMBRANE. 1958. The Choroid* Membrane (Choridides) is of a dark brown colour, thin, soft, essentially cellular and vascular, and lies upon the internal surface of the sclerotica, from the aperture of the optic nerve to the ciliary circle. I ts outer surface is united to the scle- rotica, posteriorly, by vessels, nerves, and loose and very delicate laminated cellular tissue ; anteriorly, by the ciliary circle. Inter- nally, it is separated from the retina by the membrane of Jacob, Posteriorly, it presents for the optic nerve a narrow aperture, the • Xipin secundce sett clwrion; tttm, forma; from its being supposed to have some resemblance to tlic chorion wliich envelopes the foetus in tiic uterus.