ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 300 tor anguli, it becomes a muscle of inspiration, by drawing the ribs outwards and upwards. 1091. To dissect this muscle, cut the clavicle through in the middle, and separate the axillary margin of the scapula from the side of the thorax, the pectorales muscles being previously raised. The surface of the muscle is now to be cleaned, by removing the cellular substance covering it. OF THE INTERCOSTALES EXTERNI. 1092. These muscles arc eleven in number, and situated in the intercostal spaces, from the vertebral column to the union of the ribs with their cartilages. They are thin, and borrow their form and breadth from each of the spaces which receive them. Their fibres, which seem to be continued anteriorly by very delicate aponeuroses, whose fasciculi are prolonged as far as the sternum, are attached above to the outer lip of the lower edge of the rib above, and posteriorly to the transverse process of the vertebra with which that rib is articulated. Tendinous bundles are pro- longed between them, and multiply their points of insertion. They descend from thence obliquely inwards and forwards, and terminate at the upper edge of the lower rib, partly in the periosteum and partly in small aponeuroses with which they are interlaced. Those of the upper intercostal muscles are less oblique than those of the lower, and they are more so posteriorly than before. 1093. Their outer surface is covered by the two pectoral muscles, the serratus magnus, obliquus externus abdominis, serratus posti- cus, superior and inferior, sacro-lumbalis, and longissimus dorsi. The inner surface covers the pleura from the tuberosity to the angle of the ribs. In the rest of its extent, it is applied upon the corrrespending internal intercostal muscle, from which it is sepa- rated by a thin layer of cellular tissue, and above by the intercos- tal vessels and nerves. OF THE INTERCOSTALES INTERNI. 1094. These are also eleven in number, and correspond to the external intercostal muscles inform and breadth, differing however in only extending from the angle of the ribs to the sternum. Their fleshy fibres are equally intermingled with aponeuroses ; but they descend obliquely backwards, and are inserted above into the inner lip of the lower edge of the ribs and their cjirtilages, and below into the inner part of the upper edge of the ribs and cartilages. They arc less oblique than those of the external intercostal muscles. 1095. Their (niter surface is covered by the preceding muscles, and is in connexion with the intercostal vessels and nerves. The