MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 307 1116. It assists the deltoid muscle in raising the arm. If the arm is fixed, it acts upon the scapula. OF THE INFRA-SPINATUS. 1117- This muscle is situated in the fossa, observed on the pos- terior surface of the scapula beneath its spine. It is broad inter- nally, narrow externally, thick and triangular, and kept down posteriorly by a thin aponeurosis, which is prolonged below over the teres minor, to be inserted into a bony ridge between that muscle and the teres major, is attached above to the spine of the scapula, where it is continuous with the insertions of the trapezius and del- toides, and internally to the spinal edge of that bone, and at length loses itself externally upon the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Its fibres cross each other, and are very apparent. Some of the fleshy fibres come from this aponeurosis internally ; but the greater num- ber arise from two inner thirds of the fossa infra-spinata. Of these fibres, the upper proceed horizontally outwards, and the rest ascend more, and are longer the lower their position is. They go to a broad aponeurosis concealed beneath them, situated nearer the posterior surface of the muscle than the anterior, which, towards the hu- merus, becomes a strong and thick tendon, which is attached to the middle surface of the large tuberosity of that bone, after being iden- tified with the fibrous capsule of the articulation, and in part incor- porated with those of the supra-spinatus and teres minor. 1118. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered external- ly by the deltoid muscle, internally by the trapezius, below by the latissimus dorsi, in the middle by the integuments. The anterior surface covers the fossa infra-spinata, from which it is separated, in its outer third, by much cellular tissue, and by the superior scar- pular nerve and vessels. It is also applied upon the capsule of the shoulder joint. Its lower edge, which is inchned obliquely upwards and outwards, is connected internally with the teres major by an aponeurotic partition, which presently divides into two laminae, one passing oetween the teres major and minor, the other between the infra^spinatus and teres minor. The edge is then confounded ■with the teres minor, as far as the middle of its length. 1119. When the arm is lowered, the infra-spinatus turns it out- wards by rotation. When raised, it draws it backwards. OV THE TERES MINOR. 1120. The Teres Minor is an elongated narrow muscle, flatten- ea trom above downwards in its inner half, and from behind for- wards m the outer. It is situated beneath the preceding, and auses trom a rough triangular surface, which limits the fossa infra- spmata near the axillary edge of the scapula, and from two apo-