THE SJCU^L IN GENERAL. 87 hcnded in this region, which does not present any convexity simi- lar to those which the vault forms behind, are very numerous. 295. From the occipital protuberance, there proceeds, on eitlier side, the upper curved hne, and downwards the external occipital crest, from the middle of which the lower curved lines seem to arise. Between the latter and the upper, are observed impressions into which are inserted the complexus and splenius muscles. An- teriorly to the external occipital crest, is the occipital hole, on the lateral and posterior parts of which are the marks of the insertions of the small and great posterior recti and superior oblique muscles of the head, and which presents anteriorly the occipital condyles with the attachments of the odontoid ligaments, the posterior and anterior condyloid fossae, and their corresponding holes. To the outside of the condyles, there are observed the insertions of the recti capitis laterales, the jugular process of the occipital bone, the mastoid suture, the groove of the same name into which is in- serted the digastric muscle, the foramen stylo-mastoideum, and a small aperture for the passage of the nervous filament called the chorda tympani. 296. ]3eyond the occipital hole is the basilar surface, with ine- qualities for the recti capitis antici majores et minores, which arise from them. It is limited anteriorly by the basilar suture. On each of its sides it presents the petro-occipital suture, terminated behind by a pretty deep cavity, commonly more distinct on the right side, rarely wider on the left, and sometimes of equal size on both sides; this is the Jugular Fossa, which is formed by the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone and the occipital bone, and which lodges the commencement of the internal jugular vein. It is also in the bottom of this fossa that the Foramen laeerum posteriv^ is ob- served, which communicates with the cavity of the cranium, and whose margin is very unequal. A small bony plate, frequently completed by a cartilage, rising from the occipital or temporal bone, divides it into two parts, of which the anterior is smaller than the posterior; the former gives passage to the glosso-pharyngeal, pneu- rao-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves, as well as to some vessels; the latter is traversed by the internal jugular vein. I'he anterior I extremity of the petro-occipital suture opens into the Foramen la- eerum medium, the margin of which is still more irregular than that of the posterior, and which is formed by the meeting of the sphenoid and occipital bones and the petrous portion of the tempo- ral : it is entirely closed by a cartilaginous substance in the recent state, and does not give passage to any organ. 297- On the outside of the petro-occipital suture, there are ob- Bcrved : an imeven surface belonging to the petrous process of the temporal bone, and giving insertion to the levator palati and ten- sor tympani muscles; the lower orifice of the carotid calial; the styloid and vaginal processes ; the pctro-sphenoidal suture, which seems continuous with the glenoid fissure, and presents at its outer extremity the orifices of the bony portion of the Eustachian tube