ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 65^ with that of the opposite side, after furnishing ramifications to the ci-ico-thyroideus muscle. 2307. When the superior thyroid artery has arrived at the thy- roid body, it separates into three branches'. One of these dives be- tween the thyroid body and tlie walls of the larynx. Another, which is larger, proceeds along its outer edge. The third follows its inner edge, and before the cricoid cartilage unites by a reversed arch with the branch of the opposite superior thyroid artery, while the two first anastomose with the twigs of the inferior thyroid ar- tery of the same side. They are all distributed, by a great num- ber of divisions, in the parenchyma of the thyroid body. OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. (Arteria lingualis.) 2308. The next artery given off from the external carotid, is the Lingual, which sometimes arises by a common trunk with the facial artery. It ascends at first a little, winding and directing itself in- wards and forwards ; it then enters between the hyo-glossus muscle, near its inferior attachment, and the constrictor pharyngis medius ; after which,bending upwards, it ascends between the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus muscles, and between the latter and the sublingual gland, above the great horn of the hyoid bone, as far as the root of the tongue. There, it becomes horizontal, and, under the name of Ranine Artery, advances, accompanied by the lingual nerve, between the genio-glossus and lingualis muscles, to the point of the tongue, where it anastomoses with that of the other side by an arch. This artery is consequently nearly horizontal from its commence- ment, until it bends back towards the anterior edge of the hyo- glossus muscle; it is vertical during its course along the genio- glossus muscle, and horizontal again from the base to the point of the tongue. This disposition allows it to be distinguished into three portions. 2309. Under the hyo-glossus muscle and behind it, the lingual artery furnishes some inconsiderable branches, to that muscle and the constrictor pharyngis medius. Some, others pass through it to the thyro-hyoideus aud digastricus muscles, whilst others proceed to the genio-glossus muscle, and anastomose with those of the oppo- site side. It is from the same point also that the Dorsal Artery of the Tongue arises, which directs itself upwards and outwards to- ward the base of that organ and the epiglottis, and whose ramifica- tions are chiefly distributed to the stylo-glossus muscle, the back of the tongue, the tonsils and the velum palati. Although some authors mention this branch as constant, I have yet very frequent- ly found it wanting. 2310. Upon the genio-glossus, llicrc arc detached from the lin-