773 OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. of the extremity. They then turn a little inwards, and near the elbow-joint, place themselves upon the anterior surface of the fore-arm. There, they unite with several other trunks from the anterior surface of the fingers and palm of the hand, which ac- company the subcutaneous veins. In this manner they arrive at the bend of the arm, and there sometimes meet with one or two small ganglia. They then ascend along the fore and inner part of the arm, are joined by some trunks which arise from the sur- face of that region, collect, anastomose, become larger and less numerous, and dive into the axilla, where they terminate in the axillary and subclavian ganglia. 2842. Some vessels of this order separately follow the course of the cephalic vein, pass between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, divide in some ganglia, under the clavicle, form a sjnall plexus there, and unite with the inferior cervical lymphatics. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2843. They are collected into bundles around the arteries which are distributed to these parts, and have precisely the same disposition as these vessels. These lymphatics also terminate in the axillary ganglia. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE ANTERIOR WALL OF THE THORAX. 2844. They commence under the integuments of the abdomen and thorax, around the mammae, &c. direct themselves outwards aiid upwards, collect into trunks, gradually increasing in size, in consequence of their anastomoses and the addition of new roots, pass before the pectoralis major, plunge into the cellular tissue of the axilla, and terminate in the ganglia of that part. 2845. Some of these vessels come more deeply from the sub- stance of the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, and serratus mag- nus muscles. They have the same termination. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE BACK AND POSTERIOR REGION OF THE NECK. 2846. Lymphatics of the Neck. They commence under the i skin, towards the occiput, and upon the spinous processes of the I neck, whence they descend outwards following the direction of the I fibres of the trapezius, to pass obliquely over the spine of the ! scapula, and over the deltoid muscle, and unite with the preceding : ^nd following in the axillary ganglia. 2847. Lymphatics of the Bach. The superior, which arise