ORGANS OF GENERATION. 830 circumference. Eacli of them is composed of several lobules, them- selves formed of rounded granulations of a rosy white colour, and of the size of a poppy seed. It is asserted that by means of the microscope, it has been discovered that these grains, themselves so small, are formed by the union of a number of small vesicles. 3060. Lactiferous Ducts, (Ductus galactoferi s. lactiferi.) The glandular grains just mentioned give rise to the radicles of these canals, which unite into ramuscules, twigs and trunks becoming gradually larger. The latter collect towards the centre of the gland; they are flexuous, very extensile and semitransparent. Those of the different lobes do not communicate with each other, so that there are as many series of vessels as lobes in the gland. They all terminate in sinuses, placed near the base of the nipple, which are commonly from fifteen to eighteen in number. These sinuses have not all the same capacity; the largest are two or three lines in breadth, while others are not much larger than the trunks which form them. They are very short, of a conical form, and connected with each other by cellular tissue. From their summits proceeds a bundle of other canals which occupy the centre of the nipple, do not communicate together, and open separately at its surface. All these vessels are destitute of valves. Bichat thinks they are lined by a particular mucous membrane. 3061. The arteries of the mammae come from the thoracic, axil- lary, intercostal, and internal mammary. Their deep veins accom- pany the arteries ; others are subcutaneous, and follow a different course. Their nerves are furnished by the intercostal nerves and brachial plexus. Their lymphatics are numerous, and form two layers ; they communicate with those of the abdomen and thorax, and go to the axillary ganglia. ARTICLE THIRD. OF THE FCETUS AND ITS ENVELOPES. OF THE MEMBEANA DECIDUA OR SPONGY CHORION. 3062. This is a spongy membrane produced, at the period of conception, from the inner surface of the uterus by an exudation of lymph. Before the descent of the ovum or germ from the ovary 4