49 OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE. foUo-R'ing bones; the parietal, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the na- sal, the upper maxillary, the lachrymal, and the malar bones. 159. Development. Its development takes place by two points of ossification, which begin, about the forty-second day of gestation, to make their appearance on the frontal protuberances, or rather in the orbital arches,* and from thence send out radii towards the cir- cumference of the bone. The suture (sutura frontalis J, by which the two lateral halves are at first united, generally disappears a few years after birth, although not at any very regular period. OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE, "f 160. Form. The Occipital Bone (os occipitis) is flat, symmetri- cal, of a rhomboidal form, and curved upon itself It is situated at the posterior, middle, and inferior part of the skull, and is divided into the following parts. 161. Occipital or Posterior Aspect. This aspect is convex; there are observed upon it, in the median line, proceeding from be- low tipwards; Imo, A rough surface, nearly horizontal, in the middle of which there is a projection to which the pharynx is connected (spina pharyngea), and on the sides elevations for the attachment of the large and small anterior recti muscles of the head. It is called the Basilar Surface. 2do, The Great Occipital Hole, which is of an elliptical form, with its greatest diameter placed from behind forwards; it gives passage to the spinal marrow and its envelopes, the vertebral arteries and spinal accessory nerves. 3/t<o, The External occipital crest (crista occipitalis externa), into which is fixed the posterior cervical ligament, ^to, Above the latter part, the External Occipital Protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis externa), more or less prominent and uneven, and situr ated nearly in the middle of the space which separates the.oc<jipi-,^ tal hole from the upper angle of the bone. Between this angle andj^ the protuberance there is a convex surface, which is covered by the"* epicranial aponeurosis: ^ 162. On either side, and in the same direction, there is the Condi/le of the occipital bone, a convex eminence covered with cartilage, which is articulated with the atlas ; it is of an oval form, elongated from behind forwards, and from without inwards, uneven on the inner side for the attachment of a ligament which comes trom the odontoid process, limited externally by a surface into which IS inserted the rectus capitis lateralis, and marked behind and bdtore with two cavities which are named the Condyloid Fos- s^- 1 hcse fossae are perforated at their bottom with holes which Dear the same name. The first of these two holes (foramen con- • Juysch ami Rcclard describe these latter centres as t'onstant. spLnoid anK^irf' of Soemmering, because he considers the pncncd and occipital as but one bone, they being never found sepanile in the £