OF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. outwards, and open into the upper part of the lateral sinuses, be- hind the base of the petrous process, and passing through the fibrous bundles of the tentorium cerebeUi. 2696. Ophthalmic Vein, (Vena ophthalmica cerebralis seu sinus ophthalmicus). It arises from all the parts contained within the orbit, from the pituitary membrane, the palpebras, &ec., and, in a word, from all the organs to which the ophthalmic artery is distributed.* The roots of the one have the same disposition as the twigs of the other (2359), and this vein is formed by the La- chrymal Vein, the Central Vein of the Retina, the supra-orbitar. Ciliary, Muscular, Ethmoidal, Palpebral, and Nasal Veins. We observe, however, that in the choroid membrane, the radicles of the ciliary veins form a distinct layer from those of the arteries (I960), and that they are so flexuous and anastomose so frequently toge- ther, that they receive the name of Vasa Vorticosa. Resulting from the union of aU the veins which we have enumerated above, the ophthalmic vein passes out of the orbit by the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure, and discharges itself into the cavernous sinus (1579). 2697- The sinuses of the dura mater, charged with all the blood that returns from the brain, the eye, part of the nasal fossae, &c. all terminate, as we have already said (1577)) foramen lacerum posterius. There, the internal membrane of the veins ceases to be in immediate contact with the dura mater ; there also, commences the internal jugular vein, by a dilatation which is named the Sinus of the Jugular Vein. Commonly larger on the right side than on the left, and lodged in the jugular fossa, this dilatation is invested externally by the fibrous membrane of the veins (2681), and is se- parated from the vein properly so called by a contraction. The vein descends a little forwards, along with the internal carotid ar- tery (2355), covered by the styloid process of the temporal bone, and by the muscles which are attached to it. It communicates at first with the external jugular vein, by a branch of large size (2685), and, a little before arriving opposite the upper part of the larynx, it receives the facial vein. 2698. Facial Vein. (Vena facialis). This vein commences on the top of the head, and on the forehead, by a great number of roots which unite into a pretty large subcutaneous branch, having frequent anastomoses with that of the opposite side, descending vertically upon the middle region of the forehead, and commonly named the Frontal Vein, {Vena preparata). When this vein has arrived upon the sides of the root of the nose, it assumes the name of Angular Vein, receives anastomosing twigs from the ophthal- mic, and is augmented by Palpebral and Superciliary veins. It is here that the Facial Vein properly so called commences; it descends under the integuments or levator labii superioris ala?que * No veins have yet been discovered in the mombrana pupillaris of the foetus.f citt TomTV.'pirn*Tanseunt, cumquchisultcriusprogrcdluntur. Socmm. op.