PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. gitudinally and in the middle, into two portions, by a thin and prominent ridge, forming a sort of hook at its lower extremity. Be- fore this ridge, which is sometimes wanting, there is a channel perforated with numerous small holes, and entering into the com- position of the Lachrymal Groove ; it is covered by the walls of the lachrymal sac. Posteriorly, there is observed a plain surface, broader but shorter, and not cribriform. 237. A nasal aspect: this is internal, and presents in its mid- dle a groove, which corresponds to the ridge of the outer aspect. Anteriorly to this groove, there is observed an uneven surface, which belongs to the middle meatus of the nasal fossae; and be- hind it, there are rugosities which correspond to the anterior cells of the ethmoid bone, and which cover them : pretty frequently al- so, some of these inequalities communicate above with those of the orifice of the frontal sinuses. 238. Four edges, an upper, a lower, a posterior, and an ante- rior. The upper edge is short, uneven, and articulated to the in- ternal obitar process of the frontal bone. The lower, is divided into two portions by the extremity of the external ridge : it unites anteriorly with the lower turbinated bone, by a thin plate, curved inwards, and elongated downwards, which contributes to form the nasal canal; and behind, with the inner edge of the orbitar surface of the upper maxillary bone ; sometimes, the middle hook of this edge is wanting, and in that case, it is substituted by a small unci- form supernumerary bone, which unites with the upper maxillary bone, on the outside of the superior orifice of the nasal canal. The third edge, which is posterior and very thin, joins the anterior edge of the orbitar surface of the ethmoid bone. The fourth, Avhich is anterior, is marked with a small groove, into which is received one of the portions of the posterior edge of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone. 239. Structure, Development, Articulations. The lachrymal bone is entirely compact, extremely thin, and even transparent. It is developed by a single point of ossification; and is articulated to the frontal, the ethmoid, the upper maxillary, and the inferior turbinated bones. OF THE MALAH HONE. 240. Form. The Molar or Cheek Bone (os Malae) is of an irregular square form, and is situated on the upper and lateral parts of the face, forming the orbit externally, and constituting the region of the cheek. 241. Its outer aspect, which is convex anteriorly, flat poste- riorly, is smooth, quadrilateral, and covered in a great part of its extent by the skin, and the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it gives at- taclimcnt below to the two zygomatic muscles, and presents in its centre one or more small holes, named malar, for the passage of