OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR. 74.9 and communicate with the internal and external pudie arteries. Several come from the constrictor vaginas muscle, and the whole together form on the sides of the vagina and bladder a very re- markable plexus, from which proceed the last trunks of these veins. They receive by the way a great number of twigs placed between the rectum and vagina, and between the latter and the bladder. 2735. Sacro-Lateral Veins. They communicate in the sacral canal, anastomosing with the vertebral sinuses, issue by the ante- rior sacral foramina, and direct themselves transversely before the sacrum to jom the hypogastric. The inferior are larger than the superior. OF THE COMMON ILIAC VEINS. (^VencB iliaccB communes). 2736. They result from the union of the external iliac and hy- pogastric veins, and are of very large size. They arise opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis, and ascend from thence converging ob- liquely inwards, to the articulation of the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, where they unite to give rise to the vena cava inferior. The left passes successively under the left common iliac artery, then before the last vertebra, and, lastly, beliind the right common iliac artery. OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR OR ABDOMINALIS. 2737. It is much larger than the superior, and extends from the articulation of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae to the right auricle of the heart, at the inferior and posterior part of which it opens, being continuous a little with the vena cava superior. It ascends at first vertically on the right lateral part of the bo- dies of the lumbar vertebrae, to beneath the liver, covered by the right common iliac artery, then by the peritoneum and duodenum, and placed to the right of the aorta. Opposite the Hver its calibre frequently contracts a little, and sometimes, on the contrary, en- larges in a remarkable degree. It enters behind that viscus, de- scribing a shght curve, the convexity of which is turned to the left; it then sometimes passes through an aperture which the liver pre- sents to it; but, more commonly, is lodged in a notch formed be- tween its right lobe and the lobulus Spigelii. In the latter case, it corresponds to the middle and inferior part of the diaphragm. Above the liver, the vena cava inferior introduces itself into the pericardium, passing through a wide aperture of the aponeurosis of the diaphragm (1274). It directs itself a little obliquely to the left, backwards and upwards, then immediately enters the right