ORGANS OF SENSATION. 570 region of the outer wall. It seems to result from the angular junction of two distinct laminae, the outer of which is very narrow, ; and even pretty frequently does not exist at all. i Differing in this respect from the cartilage of the auditory i canal, the cartilage of the Eustachian tube is not only connected with the bony portion by a kind of ligament, but is dove-tailed as it were into its inequalities. Near the foramen lacerum medium, it is identified with the fibro-cartilaginous lamina which closes it, and ; adheres to the middle of the inner wing of the pterygoid process, as well as to the spine of the sphenoid bone, by a dense and fibrous substance. Externally, it affords points of attachment to thel|H pterygoideus internus and circumflexus palati (1041). Its lower I • edge gives attachment behind to the levator palati moUis, which I runs along it the rest of its extent (1044), and to the internal mus- cle of the malleus (2023). 2015. The membraneous portion of the Eustachian tube nearlypt forms of itself the outer half of that canal. It unites together thepi two edges of the cartilage, and is essentially formed by a prolonga-|i tion of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, which lines thelt whole internal surface of the tube. It is merely strengthened ex-l«i tcrnally by bundles of fibres which come from the spine of theH sphenoid bone, and from the base of the pterygoid process. ThisBi fibrous layer then gives attachment to some portions of the circum-li fiexus palati mollis, and stops short at the level of the bony por-B tion, where the mucous membrane alone introduces itself, and ism applied upon a very thin layer of periosteum. This mucous la-li mina is white, and is much thinner than the membrane of the pharynx, of which it appears to be an appendage. Towards the pharyngeal orifice of the canal, it forms a very thick prominent rim, and contains a great number of mucous crypts. 2016. The Eustachian tube is constantly open. Its nerves are furnished by the palatine twigs of the ganglion of Meckel (1868). Its vessels come from those of the velum palati and pharynx. OF THE BONES CONTAINED IN THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. 2017. The cavity of the tympanum contains a series of small bones, articulated with each other by diarthrosis, moved by muscles of their own, and extended from the membrana tympani to the fenestra ovahs, representing a kind of bent lever. They are named the malleus, incus, os lenticulare, and stapes. 2018. Of the Malleus. It is placed nearly vertically on the inner and upper part of the membrana tympani. It is the longest of the internal bones of the ear, and is divided into three parts, the head, the oieck, and the handle. The head forms its highest and largest part; smooth over its whole extent, of an oval form, somewhat elongated, it corresponds externally to the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and is a little concave before ; it is