OF THE EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM BONE. 157 ed in between the internal and the external. Its Base, which is < quadrilateral, is directed upwards, and gives attachment to liga- ments, as does its Summit, which is rather thin, and situated be- low. Its anterior surface, which is triangular, and slightly con- vex, is articidated to the second metatarsal bone. The posteriory which is also triangular and somewhat convex, is connected with the OS naviculare. The inner surface, presents above and behind a smooth, flat surface, which articvdates with the internal cunei- form bone; inferiorly and anteriorly it is rough, and gives attach- ment to Mgaments. Lastly, the outer surface presents, behind, a smooth and somewhat concave surface, which is articulated to the I external cuneiform bone. On the anterior part of this surface : there is a rough depression for hgaments. OF THE EXTEBNAL CUNEIFOIIM BONE. ' (Os Cuneiforme Externum J. 525. This bone is of intermediate size between the first and se- . cond cuneiform bones. It is situated on the outside of them, and on the inside of the os cuboides. Its anterior aspect is flat, smooth, and triangular, and is articxdated with the third metatarsal bone. The posterior aspect, which is of the same form, inclines a httle inwards, and is connected with the os naviculare. The m- ' ner aspect presents anteriorly a narrow surface, which is articvilat- ^ ed to the second metatarsal bone, and posteriorly another some- what convex surface connected with the middle cuneiform bone : these two surfaces are separated by a rough depression which gives attachment to ligaments. The outer aspect is surmounted, pos- teriorly and above, by a flat, rounded surface, which is connected with the OS cuboides ; and anteriorly, by another small and almost linear surface, which articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone. ■ 1 he rest of this aspect presents impressions of ligaments. The Jiase at the bone looks upwards and a little outwards ; it is rough and slightly convex. Its Summit, which is directed downwards, IS thick and tubercular. • '^fw^'^w^e and Development. The structure is the same in all the bones of the tarsus, their interior being formed of spono-y tissue, very soft, and plentifully moistened by fluids in the recent state, while the surface is invested by a very thin layer of compact I ssue, which has a lamellar or fibrous appearance. The calcane- al! tS" I'^'^-'^g-'^^us take their rise from two centres of ossification; cuneifnrl f ^'•^^^^^^1«P"^ by a single point, which, in the three II tC a ■ particular, does not appear until after birth. useless to recapitulate their articulations.