26 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and especially in the loins, than in the back. The spinous pro- cesses of the five last dorsal vertebrae gradually diminish in length, and become more and more horizontal; on which account the spine is more easily bent backwards at this place than at the upper part of the back. On the posterior part of the atlas, which forms the summit of the bony apparatus of which we are speaking, there oc- cur in the place of one of these spines two small tubercles, which give attachment to the recti capitis postici minores muscles. On the sides of the spinous processes are the vertebral grooves^ wide above, contracted in the middle, and very narrow below, formed by the series of vertebral laminae, and less deep in the cer- vical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. They are filled by the longissimi dorsi, the sacro-lumbales, scmispinales dorsi and multilidi spinae muscles. Here there is seen a series of apertures between the laminae. Of these apertures that which is situated be- tween the head and the atlas is very large ; in the rest of the cer- vical region and the upper part of the dorsal, they are scarcely ap- parent ; but below this, and especially in the loins, they become very distinct. They are all in the fresh state, closed by ligaments of a yellow colour. On the outer side of these hollows, the posterior aspect of the vertebral column presents, in the neck and loins, the row of arti- cular processes, and in the back, that of the transverse processes. 70. The Lateral Surfaces are in general straight. There are observed upon them the transverse processes which have not all the same direction, for in the neck and loins they are placed in a plane anterior to those of the back. In the former of these re- gions, also, they are further distinguished by the small canal which is formed for the vertebral artery by the series of holes with which their base is perforated, and in the dorsal region by the articular surfaces for the ribs. The transverse processes of the second lum- bar vertebra are longer than those of the first and fourth, but shorter than those of the third. Along the whole extent of the spine these processes give attachment to a great number of muscles, and they present holes between them, resulting from the union of the vertebral notches, which are named intervertebral foramina. These holes, which give passage to the vertebral nerves, 'and which are proportionate in their diameter to the size of these nerves, are in the back and loins situated before the transverse processes, and not between them only, as in the neck. Their form is oval, and their course very short. They are larger in the lower part of the spine. In the dorsal region, there is remarked anterior to them the series of articular surfaces which receive the heads of the ribs. 71. The Base is cut obliquely to be joined to the sacrum. With that bone it forms a sort of angle, named the promontory by accoucheurs, but which may with more propriety be termed the sacro-vertehral angle. This angle projects anteriorly, and is straight on tlie sides. The S'ummif of the vertebral column, which is articulated with