■OF THE IIADIAL NEKVE. o£the triceps extensor and tlie inner patt of the humei'us. I t then turns from within ontwavds, and from above downwards m the groove which the outer surface of that bone presents (44-2) ; and lastly, on arriving at the anterior, external and inferior part of the arm, between the brachialis internus and supinator longus, it pro- ceeds over the elbow-joint, and there divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. 1778- But before dividing, this nerve gives off a considerable number of twigs. Thus it gives off two or three, opposite the ■united tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, to the tri- ceps extensor muscle. Farther down, it sends several twigs into the same muscle. One of them traverses its inferior and external portion, and loses itself in the brachialis internus. Another des- cends under its large portion, ramifies there, and transmits a very long and remarkable filament to the anconeus muscle. Still lower, the radial nerve gives off a pretty large branch to the integuments of the fore-arm ; sometimes it is double ; it perforates the brachi- ahs internus, emerges between it and the supinator longus, passes behind the outside of the elbow, and descends along the outer and back part of the fore-arm and hand as far as the thumb, giving a great number of filaments to the skin and cellular tissue. Lastly, as it passes between the brachialis internus and supinator longus, the radial nerve sends some filaments still to the latter and to the extensor carpi radialis longior. 1779- -Anterior Branch. Smaller than the other, it descends along the anterior and outer part of the fore-arm, between the two supinator muscles, and on the outside of the radial artery. To- wards the lower third of the fore-arm, it winds a little outwards, passes under the tendons of the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior, and descends between the integuments and the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi in- ternodii poUicis. Presently after, it divides into two twigs, an mter which is smaller, and an imier, larger. The outer descenda upon the dorsal surface of the thumb, and divides into two fila- ments, one of which ramifies along its radial edge, while the other bifurcates to be distributed to its ulnar side, and to the radial side of the fore-finger. The inner proceeds over the back of the hand, and divides into two filamerits, one of which belongs to the ulnar side of the fore-finger, the other to the radial side of the middle finger. All these filaments, before terminating at the extremities of the fingers, furnish many ramifications to the interossei muscles, the integuments, and the parts about the first metacarpo-phalan- geal articulations. I78O. Posterior Branch. It directs itself obliquely outwards^ passes under the supinator longus and extensores carpi radiales muscles, gives off several filaments to them as well as to the an^ coneus, enters between the fleshy fibres of the supinator brevis^ lurnishcs it with several filaments, passes through it in the longii^ tudinal direction, winding obliquely downwards over the supcriof