ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. upper extremity is frequently united with that of the extensor ossis : metacarpi poUicis. 1211. It extends the last phalanx of the thumb upon the first, and, in other respects, acts as the preceding muscle. OF THE EXTENSOR PROPRIUS INDICTS. (^Indicator.) 1212. Similar in form to the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, tliis muscle arises, by short aponeuroses, from the posterior surface of the ulna, and from the interosseous ligament, a little beneath it,. and to the outer side. From thence it descends outwards, in- creasing a little in size at first, then becoming thinner; a tendon inclosed in its substance, becomes separated towards the posterior annular ligament of the wrist, unites with those of the extensor, communis digitorum, by means of a membraniform cellular tissue (1187), passes into the same groove with it, is embraced by the same synovial membrane, and, on arriving at the back of the hand,, is situated to the outside of that which the extensor communis sends to the fore-finger. It is incorporated with it behind the articula- tion of the second metacarpal bone, with the first phalanx of the fore-finger, to terminate in the manner indicated (1187-) 1213. Its posterior surface is covered by the extensor carpi ul- naris, extensor proprius minimi digiti, and extensor communis di- gitorum. The anterior lies on the ulna, the interosseous ligament, the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, the inferior extremity of the radius, and the back of the hand. Its upper extremity is confound- ed with that of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 1214. It extends the three phalanges of the fore-finger, and, in other respects, has the same uses as the other extensors. 1215. Remove the skin and aponeurosis from the outer and back part of the arm, and from the back part of the hand, but leave the posterior annular ligament; by this dissection the superficial mus- cles of the outer and posterior regions of the arm will be exposed. These must be detached in order to show the deep muscles. Whilst examining each muscle, the fibrous sheath through which it passes behind the wrist is to be slit up, so as to examine the re- flections of the synovial membrane from its inner surface upon tlie tendon. 3