331 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. External Palmar Region. OF THE ABDUCTOE POLLICIS.* 1216. Short, triangular, flat, broader above than below, this muscle arises externally and by very short aponeurotic fibres from the anterior surface of the os scaphoides ; internally, from the up- per, anterior, and external part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and sometimes from a prolongation of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis (1203). From thence, it descends a little obliquely outwards. Its fibres converge toward each other, and terminate by a short and flat tendon, concealed at first in their substance, afterwards receiving a portion of the flexor brevis poUi-' cis, and going to be inserted at the outer edge of the upper extre-' mity of the first phalanx of the thumb, over the back of which it transmits some aponeurotic fibres to the tendon of the extensor se- cundi internodii pollicis. 1217. Its anterior surface is covered by a portion of the palmar aponeurosis and by the skin. The posterity)' covers the opponens, and flexor brevis, polhcis. 1218. It carries the thumb and first metacarpal bone outwards and forwards. OF THE OPPONENS POLLICIS. 1219. This muscle is also triangular, but thicker than the pre- ceding, imder which it is situated. It arises, internally, from the fore part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, by very long aponeurotic fibres; externally, from the outer edge of the groove which the trapezium presents for the tendon of the flexor carpi ra- diaUs ; and posteriorly, from an aponeurotic septum interposed be- tween it and the flexor brevis pollicis. Arising from these different places, the fleshy fibres, which are so much the longer and more oblique the lower they are, proceed downwards and outwards, and terminate by short aponeuroses all along the outer edge of the first metacarpal bone, and sometimes partially on the tendon of the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 1220. Its anterior surface is covered by the preceding muscle and by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the anterior annu- lar ligament of the wrist, the articulation of the trapezium with the first metacarpal bone (693), part of the anterior surface of the lat- ter bone, and the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. " Soemmering divides it into two distinct muscles, wliieh lie designates by (lie names ot AbduUores breves iwllicis inmus, iiilcrior el cxkrivr.