OF THE VA-GINAL AND ISCHIATIC ARTERIES. 71? (oracecd transversely and in a flexuous manner over its two sur- Aixces, and anastomose in the median line mth those of the op- posite side. It also throws upon the Fallopian tube and round ijgament some small twigs which inosculate with those of the sper- linatic arteries (2553). There also commonly proceeds from it one rvhich goes to the vagina, and which frequently traverses its whole cength. OF THE VAGINAL ARTERY. (^Art. Vaginalis). 2587- Like the preceding, it exists only in the female. Some- iames even it is not met with, and is then replaced by twigs of the laterine, vesical and middle hjemorrhoidal arteries, which are distri- wuted in the walls of the vagina. It arises from the hypogastric aartery, the internal pudic, the umbilical, or the middle hfemor- rlfhoidal, sometimes from the obturator artery. It descends forwards, ifiirnishing a pretty large twig to the lateral region of the bladder, phen continues its course over the side of the vagina, gives it nu- merous branches, and reaches as far as its orifice, whence it distri- i6utes ramifications to the external parts of generation. Inferior Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE ISCHIATIC ARTERY. CArt. Ischiadica.) b2588. It arises from the hypogastric separately, or along with e glutaeal. A little smaller than the latter, it yet appears to be e true continuation of the trunk of the hypogastric. Directed almost vertically downwards between the rectum and the walls of ;lthe pelvis, before the pyriformis muscle, it issues throvxgh the lower ppart of the sciatic notch, between the inferior edge of that muscle land the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament, having behind it the great >«ciatic nerve. 2589. In the pelvis, this artery furnishes some twigs, not of very i constant occurrence, to the rectum, the bladder, the uterus, and tithe levator ani muscle. It also sometimes gives off the two pudic, tithe middle haemorrhoidal and the obturator arteries. 2590. At its leaving the pelvis, the ischiatic artery separates in- t<to several large branches. One of them directs itself obliquely Idovmwards and inwards, following the origin of the glutajus raaxi- :mus which covers it, gives off twigs to it, and arrives towards the coccyx, where it loses itself in the ischio-coccygeus and levator ani 3