11 BONES IN GENERAL. 25. By the combmation of the various elements of which wc have been speaking, there are formed fibres, which are of the same nature in all the bones, but which present themselves under two different aspects, being in one part rarefied to form the cellular, the areolar or spongy tissue, and in another condensed to form the compact tissue. The former of these tissues results from the interlacing of nu- merous laminae running in all directions, and leaving between them small vacuities or cellules of variable extent, generally very irregu- lar in their form, which communicate with one another, as is de- monstrated by the circumstance, that mercury may be made to pass through them. This tissue almost always occupies the centre of the bones. The inferior turbinated bones of the nose, according to most anatomists, form the only exception. We shall presently see how far this opinion is correct. The reticular tissue of authors is merely a variety of the cel- lular tissue, in which the cellules are larger, and the laminae and fibres by which they are bounded much thinner and more delicate. The compact tissue is formed by fibres placed so close as to leave no intervals; they are however not held together by small pegs, as Gagliardi imagined. This tissue commonly exists at the surface of the bones, and forms the walls of the various apertures and canals that may occur in them. Although by the naked eye no interstices are perceptible between the fibres or lamellae of which it is composed, the microscope, however, discovers small medullary and vascular canals in its substance. 26. The bones vary much in size, some of them being a fourth, a fifth, or a sixth of the length of the body, while others of them are not more than a few lines in diameter. 27. Their form is always symmetrical, some being median and single, others lateral and in pairs. In the former, the one lateral half is a counterpart of the other. In the latter, the bone of one side of the body corresponds ex- actly to that of the opposite side. There are, however, in these respects some shght irregularities. 28. With respect to figure, the bones are distinguished into long, flat, and short, according as the length or the breadth pre- dominates in their dimensions, or is equal to the thickness. This division, which is founded on the relative proportions of their three geometrical dimensions, is however subject to some exceptions ; and there are in fact bones, which in one respect may be considered as long bones, while in another they ought to be arranged among the 9Q "^^^^ ^^i"^ the ribs, and the lower jaw. 1' 1?' '^'Tv, ^^^^ Bones (Ossa longa, sive cylindrica) occur in the limbs. Those nearest the trunk are the longest, but least numer- ous. Iheir extremities are enlarged, and their middle part, which IS named body or diaphysis, is contracted, and most commonly triangular and twisted. Their centre is hoUowed by a cylindrical