354 ACTIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE ACCELKRATOK URIK.B. ■ {Bulbo-Cavernosus.y 1303. This muscle is long, flat, broader behind than before, and situated in the perineum, beneath the bulb of the urethra and the root of the penis. It arises between these parts and the anus, where it is confounded with the transversus perina^i, sphincter ani and levator ani. It is at first separated from its fellow only by a tendinous Hne, but afterwards separates from it anteriorly, proceed- ing outwards, and leaving an interval in which are seen the canal of the urethra, and a portion of the corpus cavernosum. Its fibres, which are nearly transverse, and very short behind, oblique and longer before, terminate, the first on the sides of the bulb of the urethra, the others below the corpus cavernosum, where they are incorporated with its membrane. ' 1304. The upper surface of this muscle covers the bulb, and the commencement of the spongy portion of the urethra, as well as the corpus cavernosum. The lower is covered by the skin, the sphincter ani, and the erector penis, from which it is separated by much cellular tissue. 1305. This muscle compresses the posterior part of the canal of the urethra, which it carries backwards and upwards. It ac- celerates the ejection of the urine and seminal fluid. OF THE TEAN.SVEESUS PEllIN^I. 1306. This is a small flat, thin, irregular muscle, varying much in form, more commonly triangular, sometimes composed of seve- ral separate bundles, and situated at the posterior part of the pe- rinaeum. It is pretty frequently wanting in women. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the inner part of the tuberosity and the jfairaus of the ischium, above the erector penis and root of the cor- .pus cavernosum, directs itself inwards and a little forwards, and terminates at a tendinous line placed between it and its fellow, being also in part confounded with the accelerator urina? and sphincter ani, and in the female with the constrictor vaginae also. Some- .times all its fibres unite with the accelerator urinse; they are al- ways longer behind and below, than before and above. 1307- The anterior surface of the transversus perinasi, which ■ is inclined downwards, corresponds to the erector penis and accele- rator urinoe, and a mass of cellular tissue, which fills up their in- terval. The posterior surface is covered by the levator ani, from which it is separated by much cellular tissue, and externally by the deep branch of the internal pudic artery.