PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 154 OF THE ASTRAGALUS.* 519- The Astragalus^ which, next to the calcaneum, is the largest bone of the tarsus, is of a very irregular and somewhat cubical form, and occupies the middle and upper part of the tarsus, where it ap- pears as if wedged in between the two malleoli. Its upper surface is formed, in its two posterior thirds, by an articular facet, which re- presents a pulley with a shallow groove; this pulley, which is broader before than behind, convex from behind forwards, inclined back- wards, a little concave in the transverse direction, is articulated with the lower extremity of the tibia, and has its outer edge more pro- minent than the inner. Its anterior third presents a rough depres- sion, for the insertion of ligaments, which constitutes a portion of the neck of the astragalus. Its lower surface presents two articular sur- faces, separated from each other by a very distinct groove, directed obliquely forwards and outwards, narrower behind than before, into which are inserted ligaments which are attached on the other hand to the calcaneum. Of these surfaces, one is posterior and exter- nal, large, concave, directed backwards and inwards ; the other, anterior and internal, and slightly convex : both are articulated with the upper surface of the calcaneum. The anterior surface of the astragalus is convex and rounded, and is articulated to the os naviculare ; it is formed by a very distinct prominence {caput as- tragali), which the bone forms at this place, and is supported by a kind of neck (colhim). The nec/c of the astragalus, is narrow above, where it presents a depression filled with adipose cellular tis- sue and ligaments, oblique below, where it presents the groove, in- to which are inserted the ligaments connected with the calcaneum ; it is very rough, uneven, perforated with a great number of vascu- lar foramina, sinuous, and, as it were, twisted upon itself It is longer externally and above, than inwards and downwards. Its posterior surface is very narrow and traversed obliquely, down- wards and inwards, by a groove in which passes the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis, and which presents externally a pointed eminence, to which a ligament is attached. Its outer surface, which is triangular, smooth, concave from above downwards, plain or slightly convex from behind forwards, is articulated with the fibula. The inner S7j,rface, rough and uneven in the greater part of its ex- tent, which gives attachment to ligaments, presents, at the upper part, a smaller surface than that of the outer, broader before than behind, where it terminates in a point, and is articulated to the mal- leolus internus. It joins the upper surface of the bone nearly at a right angle.