ORGANS OF SECKETION. 798 jects, two cones are seen ending in a single mammilla, or twomam- milliL' terminating a single cone. They are separated from each other by a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue. They are often short and blunt, but they are also seen to prolong them- selves into a more or less distinct prominence of a cylindrical or pointed form. The orifices of the canals of the tubular substance which are perceived at their surface are much less numerous than the canals themselves, on which account it is to be presumed that several of the latter unite before terminating. 2939. Membraneous Envelope of the Kidneys. It covers the whole surface of these organs, and dips into their fissure, where it is traversed by the divisions of the renal vessels, and reflected upon the free surface of the pelvis. It may be easily detached from the cortical substance, with which it is connected by fila- ments, which although numerous are yet very delicate, and by some very small blood-vessels. It is rather thm, transparent, and possessed of little extensibility, and appears to be of a fibrous nature. 2940. The urine secreted in the cortical substance of the kid- neys passes through the ducts of the tubular substance, and thus arrives in the calyces, the pelvis, and ureter, which we now proceed to examine. OF THE CALYCKS, PELVIS, AND URETEK. 2941. The Calyces {Infundihula) are small membraneous ducts which embrace, on the one hand, the circumference of the mammillae, and on the other, open deeply in the pelvis, and only at its extremi- ties or towards the side of it which faces the convexity of the kidney. Their number varies from six to twelve, one of them frequently belonging to several mammilla? at once. Their diameter is always proportional to the number of mammillae which they embrace, and they are surrounded by much fat. 2942. The Pelvis is a small membraneous bag which occupies the posterior part of the fissure of the kidney. It is placed behind the renal artery and vein. It is elongated from above downwards, flattened from before backwards, presenting an irregularly oval form, much contracted below to be continued into the ureter. The orifices of the calyces are perceived in its deepest part. 2943. The Ureter is a long membraneous canal, of a cylindrical form and about the size of a writing quill, extended obliquely be- tween the pelvis, with which it is continuous, and the bottom of the bladder, into which it opens. It commences in the sinuosity of the kidney by a hollowed portion, which is named the Infundibulum. From thence it descends obliquely inwards as far as the sacro-ihac symphysis, being then only separated from its fellow by the breadth of the base of the sacrum. It then continues to descend in the same direction, directing itself a little forwards, in the midst 4.