OF THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVliS. 481 which lose themselves among those composing the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve, which at this place presents a plexiform ap- pearance. 1719. In traversing the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, it sends oft'two or three filaments which lose themselves in its fleshy fibres, and one or two twigs, which go to the cervical plexus, and commu- nicate especially with the anterior branches of the fourth and fifth cervical nerves. The third and fourth, on the contrary, send each a branch to it, which increases its volume in a sensible manner, af- ter forming with it several anastomoses from which result triangu- lar areola? which contribute to the formation of the cervical plexus. It then exhausts itself by expanding in the upper part of the tra- pezius muscle into a more or less considerable number of filaments, one of which traverses that muscle, ascending behind it to a great- er or less height. OF THE NERVES OF THE NINTH PAIIl, Oil HYPOGLOSSAL NEIIVES.* 1720. The Hypoglossal Nerves arise each by ten or twelve very slender filaments, before which the vertebral artery passes, from the grooves which separate the corpora pyramidalia and oUvaria. These filaments, which are placed in the same line one above the other, and commence each by two or three roots, descend a little out- wards, converging, presently unite into a single cord, sometimes into two, communicate frequently with each other, and issue from the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen; they are contain- ed in a canal of the dura mater, immediately covered by the neu- nlema, and enveloped in a sheath of the arachnoid membrane. i / 21. As it leaves the condyloid foramen, the hypoglossal nerve IS united to the outer side of the pneumo-gastric by cellular tissue, and sometimes by a nervous filament. It then descends forwards and becomes more superficial, placed upon the two branches of the common carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the superior cervical ganglion, and covered by the stylo-hyoideus and digastri- cus muscles, the occipital artery, and the internal jugular vein. 1 here, it communicates, by one or two filaments, with the nervous arch which the first and second cervical nerves form around the transverse process of the atlas. It then appears between the branches of the internal jugular vein, and immediately under the sterno-clcido-mastoideus muscle. Arrived at the angle of the jaw, it changes its direction ; bends "hi V, middle tendon of the digastric muscle, sends a consider- able branch along the neck, and ascends itself forwards towards the S ' '''' " terminates. 1722. Descending Cervical Branch {Descendens noni.) It anses at the place where the hypoglossal nerve forms a bend around " T»o, sul); yXinra, lingua. 2 I