.OF THE PAUIliTAL BONE. 57 rcnce of tJie external auditory canal, one for the squamous por- tion, one for the mastoid process, one for the zygomatic, and one for the styloid process. The fourth and sixth make their appear- ance long after the rest. In certain cases, there are two osseous nuclei for the squamous portion. OF THE PARIETAL BONE.* 186. Form. The Parietal Bone (Os Parietale: os BregmatLi): like the temporal, is double and unsymmetrical. It is of an irre- gularly quadrilateral form, concave internally, convex externally, and occupies the lateral, upper and middle parts of the cranium. It presents the following parts. 187. An Outer Aspect, convex, smooth, and covered by the epicranial aponeurosis in its upper half, somewhat uneven in its lower half, where the temporal muscle is inserted, and where there are sometimes observed slight furrows for the deep temporal ar- teries. This surface is perforated, above and behind, by the pa- rietal Jin'amen, which varies much as to its size and position, and' even its existence ; it gives passage to small vessels which establish a communication between those of the dura mater and pericra- nium ; it is sometimes found in the occipital bone, and sometimes stops short in the diploe, without passing through the bone. In the middle of this aspect there is observed an eminence, which is much more prominent in children than in adults, named the Pa- rietal Protuberance {tuber parietale) ; it surmounts a curved line, which is continuous with the ridge observed on the frontal bone (152), and with the upper root of the zygomatic process. This line gives attachment to the temporal aponeurosis. 188. An Inner or Cerebral Aspect, concave, covered by the dura mater, and marked over its whole extent with a great number of deep furrows {sulci meningei), which lodge the divisions of the middle meningeal artery. It also presents cerebral impres- sions, but they are rather indistinct, especially above. In the middle is a depression called thie Parietal fossa, which corresponds to the protuberance of the same name. At the upper part, near the edge of the bone, there is observed a half groove running in a longitudinal direction, which, united to a similar half groove in the other parietal bone, is continued into the groove qn the inner sur- face of the frontal bone (153). Near this, there are observed small irregular cavities, varying much in number and arrangement, which receive the bodies called glands of Pacchioni. 189. Four Edges. The upper or sagittal (margo sagittalis) is the longest; it is straight and denticulated, and joins that of the op- posite bone, with which it forms the sagittal suture. The lower or temporal edge {margo temporalis) is the shortest; it is concave, these^boiTer""' " ^^'^^^^^ ^'^^^^ °^ ^^^^ '"'c principally formed of