ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 710 aorta, and direct themselves more or less transversely outwards over the middle of the bodies of the first four lumbar vertebrae, being covered by the psoas magnus, or by the crura of the dia- phragm. At the base of the transverse processes, they divide into a dorsal or posterior branch, and an anterior or lumbar branch, properly so called, after sometimes giving a few small twigs to the bodies of the vertebrae, the cellular tissue, and the lym- phatic ganglia of the loins, the crura of the diaphragm, and pso£E muscles. 2555. The dorsal branches of the four lumbar arteries are very slender. They send at first into the vertebral canal a twig which is distributed to the spinal marrow and its envelopes, and then dive into the substance of the fleshy mass of the sacro-lumbalis, and longissimus dorsi muscles, where they lose themselves, sending some ramifications into the intertransversales and multifidus spinas muscles, and into the integuments. They anastomose with each other. Anterior Branches of the Lumbar Arteries. 2556. First Lumbar Artery. It directs itself outwards, under the lower edge of the twelfth rib, following exactly the attachment of the diaphragm. It then bends downwards, and descends almost vertically between the peritoneum and transversus abdominis mus- cle, in which latter it loses itself. 2557- Second Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is of small size, descends in the substance of the quadratus lumborum and ramifies there. 2558. Third Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is very large, dives between the quadratus lumborum and transversus abdominis muscles, bends towards the iliac crest, and divides, towards the posterior third of the latter, into two large twigs, which pass through the broad muscles of the abdomen near their origins, and descend backwards into the glutaei muscles, where they com- municate with the twigs of the glutaeal artery. 2559. Fourth Lumbar Artery. Its anterior branch, which is still larger than that of the preceding, directs itself transversely between the psoas magnus and quadratus lumborum, along the inferior attachment of the latter, gives large twigs to the iliacus muscle, passes above the iliac crest, and is equally dispersed in the glutaei muscles. OF THE ARTERIES WHICH TERMINATE THE AORTA BELOW. OF THE MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY. 2560. The Middle Sacral Artery (Artcria sacra media,) arises from the posterior part of the aorta, a little above its bifur-