OV THE FACE IN GRNKUAL. 95 already pointed tliem out in describing tliat cavity ; it will, thero- ibre be sufficient here to say in a general manner, that the cranium lodges the brain and most of its dependencies ; that it guards them agamst external injuries, and sustains all their parts, either by it- self or by the points of attachment which it furnishes to the folds of the dura mater ; that it serves for the articulation of the head with the trunk properly so called; affords a fulcrum for the motions which the lower jaAv performs on the upper ; transmits ex- ternally nerves and vessels; allows others to enter into its interior ; o-ives attachment to a great number of muscles ; contains the or- gans of hearmg, &c. OF THE FACE IN GENERAL. CONFORMATION. 321. Without reckoning the hyoid bone, which belongs to the face only as a very remote appendage, and which does not really enter into its composition, we shall distinguish in this part of the head, which is very symmetrical, several very unequal regions, which we shall describe in succession, with the exception of that which occupies the upper part, and which is confounded with the cranium. Nor shall we here treat particularly of the sutures, as we did with respect to the cranium (282), for they have no longer the same mutual relations. 322. Anterior Region. This is what constitutes the Face, pro- perly speaking. It extends vertically from the upper edge of the nasal bones to the chin; its external limits are formed by the cheek bones, the projecting ridge which descends under the malar tuberosity, and the external oblique line of the lower jaw. It is very broad at its upper part, and especially between the two cheek bones; but the breadth gradually diminishes from the upper third downwards. 423. At the middle and upper part of this region, there are ob- served marked inequaUties which connect the nasal bones with the frontal, and form a suture which surmounts the Nose itself, a pyra- midal eminence, more or less prominent in different subjects, which forms a sort of vault inclined forwards, narrow above, broad below, longitudinally concave in the former direction, convex in the latter, and much prolonged below by its lateral parts, which are directed outwards. This vault is formed by the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the maxillary bones ; it is intersected in the middle by a longitudinal suture, sometimes inclined on one or other side, or even presenting sinuous curves, which results from the union of the nasal bones by mere juxta-position without denticulations. On the sides of this suture are the insertions of the pyramidal muscles the nose, and one or more small vascular apertures, as well as another longitudinal suture formed by the nasal bones and the na-