650 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. The interval which these two arteries leave between them is filled below by the trachea and oesophagus, and above by the larynx. 2295. Anteriorly, the left carotid is covered in its lower part by the left vena innominata, the thymus gland and the clavicle. In the lower part of the neck both carotids are covered by the sterno-mastoidei, sterno-hyoidei, sterno-thyroidei and platysma myoides muscles, but higher up in the neck, after having ascended behind the omo-hyoidei, they are directly covered by the platysma myoides only. 229(j. Posteriorly, the common carotids are applied upon the vertebral column, and more immediately upon tlie inferior thyroid arteries, and the longi colli and recti capitis antici majores muscles. 2297- Internally, they correspond to the trachea, the thyroid body, which advances a little upon them, the larynx and the pharynx. That of the left side is moreover in relation witli the oesophagus. 2298. Externally, they correspond to the internal jugular veins, tlic pneumo-gastric nerves, and the communicating cords of the superior and middle cervical ganglia (I876). All these parts are connected by a filamentous cellular tissue, which forms the sheath of the vessels. 2299. In their whole course, the common carotid arteries pre- serve the same calibre. In fact they give off no branch, excepting some very slender ramifications which lose themselves in their own walls or in the neighbouring muscles. OF THE EXTERNAL CAKOTIU AllTERY. ( Carotis externa J. 2300. This artery is particularly destined for the face and the exterior of the head. Its size is equal to that of the internal ca- rotid, excepting in children, in whom the latter is larger, on account of the greater development of the brain and organs of sense. 2301. The external carotid artery extends from the upper part of the larynx to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. Placed near the internal carotid at its commencement, and even situated internally and anteriorly of it, it ascends parallel to it until under the digastric muscle,, where it crosses its direction winding out- wards and backwards to gain the angle of the jaw, and become more superficial. It then proceeds between the ear and the posterior edge of the lower jaw, concealed by the parotid gland, and divides into two branches which arc named the Temporal and Internal Maaillary Arteries. 2302. Infcriorly, the external carotid is only covered by the