329 jVlUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. similar form, this muscle arises beneath it, from a email portion of the ulna, from the interosseous ligament, and more especially from the posterior surface of the radius. Following the same direction, it degenerates, on the outer side of the fore-arm, into a slender tendon, more apparent externally than internally, which passes into a groove of the radius (1203) already described. On issuing from this groove, it separates from the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, descends behind the first metacarpal bone, becomes flatten- ed, and is inserted at the upper and back part of the first phalanx of the thumb. 1207- Its posterior surface is covered by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor communis digitorum. At its lower part, it is in connexion with the aponeu- rosis of the fore-arm. Its anterior surface has the same connex- ions as those of the preceding muscle (1203), excepting below,' where it is applied upon the first metacarpal bone and its articula- tion with the thumb. 1208. It extends the first phalanx of the thumb upon the first metacarpal bone, and may afterwards draw the latter backwards and outwards. It also contributes to the supination of the hand. OF THE EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTEUNODII I'OLLICIS MANUS. (Extensor Major Pollicis Manus). 1209. This muscle is elongated, flat, fusiform, longer and larger than the preceding, and situated beneath it. It arises from about the middle third of the posterior surface of the ulna, and from a small portion of the interosseous ligament. It descends outwards, and terminates in a tendon which first appears behind, and is isolated near the lower extremity of the radius, where it passes un- der the posterior annular ligament, in a groove, directed obliquely like itself, and lined by a synovial membrane. When it has arriv- ed at the back of the hand, it becomes a little broader, passes over the tendons of the radial extensors, crosses their direction, descends at the posterior and inner part of the first metacarpal bone, joins the tendons of the extensor primi internodii pollicis near the articulation of that bone with the first phalanx, receives in the same place two aponeurotic expansions from the abductor and flexor brevis pollicis, becomes thicker, then enlarges a second time, and is inserted at the back part of the phalanx of the thumb. 1210. Its posterior surface is covered by the extensor carpi ul- naris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digitorum, and ex- tensor indicis, and at its lowest part by the skin. The anterior surface lies upon the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor pnmi internodii poUicis, the two bones of the fore-arm, the interos- T"fi ^"^i^*^ joittt^ the tendons of the radial extensors, the first metacarpal bone, and the phalanges of the thumb. Its