MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 247 the rhomboideus, angukris scapula', serratus magnus and trape- zius. The anterior is applied upon the splenius, longissimus dorsi, transversalis, sacro-lumbalis, the ribs and external intercostal muscles. 820. It raises the ribs to which it is attached, and is consequent- ly subservient to inspiration. It also keeps down in some measure the vertebral muscles over which it passes. 821. This muscle is exposed, by cutting through the rhomboi- deas near its insertion into the base of the scapula, and dissecting it towards the spine; then, by drawing the scapula from the side of the thorax, the digitations of the serratus will be exposed covered with loose cellular membrane which must be removed. OF THE SEllUATUS POSTICUS INFEKIOR. 822. It is broader than the preceding, but equally thin, and has nearly the same form. It is situated at the lower part of the back, and in the lumbar region. Arising from the last two spinous processes of the back, and the first three of the loins, as well as from the corresponding interspinal ligaments, by a broad apo- neurosis, with parallel fibres directed obliquely upwards and out- wards, which is partly confounded with that of the latissimus dorsi, it divides, after a short passage, into four very distinct bundles. The first, which is very broad, is attached to the outer hp of the lower edge of the second false rib, over an extent of four or five in- ches, and by its lower border covers the upper edge of the third. The other three, which become successively narrower and shorter, are attached in the same manner; but are directed upon the ribs farther from the angle than the first, so that the fourth is at- tached not only to the bony part, but also to the cartilage, of the last rib. Their edges also overlap each other, presenting the ap- pearance of imbrication., to use the language of botanists. 823. The posterior surface is covered by the latissimus dorsi. The anterior rests upon the three last ribs, the corresponding ex- ternal intercostal muscles, and posterior lamina of the aponeu- rosis of the transversahs abdominis, which separates it from the sacro-spinales. 824. It lowers the ribs to which it is attached, and thus contri- butes to exspiration. It is in some measure an antagonist of the preceding muscle. 825. The fleshy part of this muscle must be first exposed by cutting through the outer and lower part of the latissimus dorsi, and dissecting it towards the spine. The tendon of the serra- tus will be found incorporated with that to which the latissimus dorsi is attached.