OF THE DOllSAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. 501 on each side, and distinguished by their numerical name, count- ing from above downwards. The first issues between the first two dorsal vertebra^, and the last between the twelfth dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. 1784. On emerging from the intervertebral hole which belongs to it, each dorsal nerve immediately divides into two branches, a postenar or dorsal, and an anterior or intercostal^ of which the latter is the larger. POSTERIOR OR DORSAL BRANCHES. 1785. They are immediately directed backwards between the !tr9.nsverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, under the semi-spi- nalis dorsi and multifidus spinas, where they commonly divide into two orders of twigs. Of these, the inner, enter immediately into the semi-spinalis dorsi and mvdtifidus spinas muscles, pass ob- liquely through them, giving off several filaments to them, emerge between them and the longissimus dorsi, which also receives rami- fications from them, perforate the muscles which lie above the lat- ter, and, for the most part, lose themselves in the skin of the back, some of them however remaining in the trapezius and rhoraboide- us. The outer, which are larger, descend obliquely outwards be- neatli the semi-spinalis dorsi, multifidus spinae and longissimus dorsi, emerge in the triangular spaces which the levatores costarum form above, and pass between the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, to which they furnish filaments ; they then expand into se- veral ramifications which creep under the latissimus dorsi, trape- zius, and rhomboideus, pass throvigh them, and are ultimately dis- tributed to the skin. ANTERIOR BRANCHES. 1786. The first issues under the first rib, and the twelfth imder the last rib. They have this in common, that each of them re- ceives one or two filaments from the corresponding thoracic gang- lion. They then proceed outwards under the pleura to the angle of the ribs, where they enter between the two planes of the intercos- tal muscles, after which they draw near the lower edge of the rib immediately above them, and follow its course, which gives them a different inclination (83). They also accompany in a more or less intimate manner the intercostal vessels, and in particular the artery of that name. 1787- Anterior Branch of the First Dorsal Pair. Im- nnediately after its origin, and its com,munication with the first thoracic ganglion, it furnishes a twig which proceeds obliquely downwards under the inferior surface of the first rib, runs along its outer edge, arrives near the sternum, perforates the intercostal muscles, and loses itself on the upper and fore part of the thorax.