29^ ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. origin by aponeurotic fibres, to the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebras, at the fore part of which it ter- minates by small aponeuroses. The other fasciculus is inferior ; it descends vertically from the body of the axis and that of the third cervical vertebra, and from the anterior tubercle of the fourth or fifth cervical vertebra, from which it rises by aponeuroses, as far as the bodies of the last four cervical vertebrae and three first dorsal, to which it is attached by more or less distinct aponeurotic fibres, which are also inserted into the fibro-cartilages and base of the transverse processes. 1054. Its anterior surface is covered by the rectus capitis anti- cus major, the pharynx, the carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the communicating cords of the cervical ganglia and the oesophagus. The 'posterior surface covers the vertebras to which it is attached, as well as their fibro-cartilages. Opposite the body of the two first dorsal vertebras, its outer edge is separated from the scalenus anticus by a triangular interval, which lodges the verte- bral artery and vein. Its tipper extremity is confounded with tliat of the muscle of the opposite side. 1055. The aponeuroses, which give origin to this muscle, or terminate it, are prolonged before the fleshy fibres or even in their substance, and the latter, which are placed obliquely between them, are very short, notwithstanding the general length of the muscle. 1056. The longus colli feebly bends the cervical vertebras on each other, and on the dorsal vertebrae. If the upper portion acts by itself, and on one side only, it determines a rotation of the atlas upon the axis, and consequently of the head upon the neck. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR. 1057. This muscle, which is flat, elongated, and much broader and thicker above than below, lies upon the anterior and lateral part of the cervical vertebrae. Four small thin and flat tendons, fixed by a pointed extremity to the anterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, fourth and third transverse processes of the neck, and so much the larger the higher they are, give origin to the fleshy fibres of this muscle, which are united into so many imbricated bundles, behind which they are more or less prolonged. To these bundles there is frequently joined another which comes from the longus colli. They all proceed from below upwards and from without inwards, becoming broader in their progress, and mingling toge- ther, terminate, that of the fourth tendon at the basilar surface, near the occipital hole, the three first successively and in the order of their origin, at the posterior surface of a pretty strong, broad and thin aponeurosis, which is prolonged downwards upon the an- terior surface of the muscle, and attached to the basilar surface also, in front of the fleshy fibres arising from the last tendon.