OF THE VESICULA UMBILICALIS. 833 From the aorta the blood is sent to the different parts of tlic body from which it is returned by the veins, but a great part of it passes out of the body of the foetus by the umbiUcal arteries, which arc continued from the internal iliacs (2576), run towards the umbilicus on each side of the urinary bladder, and pass out by the umbilicus to go Xp the placenta, where they subdivide and communicate with the radicles of the vimbilical vein, but not with any of the viterine vessels. In the placenta the blood is supposed to undergo some changes analogous to those effected on it by respiration, for " notwithstand- ing the separation of the two circulations in the placenta, there is between the two portions composing it, and between their vessels, a relation of mutual action, which may be compared to that be- tween the air and the blood in the lungs, or to that between the aliments and the chyliferous vessels in the intestinal canal."* OF THE URACHUS. 3068. This is a continuation of the fiindus of the bladder (2947)» which, passing out of the umbilicus between the umbiHcal arteries, is continued into the cord where it disappears in the human foetus, but in the foetus of some quadrupeds it is a distinct duct, and I opens into a membraneous sac, which is apparently situated be- I tween the amnios and chorion, but is in reaUty situated outside the I chorion, this being reflected on it in the same way as a serous 1 membrane; the sac in question is called the allantois; it has never I been found in the human foetus, but, from analogy, is supposed to 1 be present at a very early period. The functions of the urachus land of the allantois are not obvious in animals termed mammiferous, Ibut in the chick, previous to its birth from the shell, it performs Ithe important function of respiration. or THE VESICULA UMBILICALIS AND THE OMPHALO-rvIESENTERIC VESSELS. 3069. The Vesicula Umhilicalis (vesicula alba) is a small sac, {filled with a yellowish fluid, situated between the chorion and am- mios, and connected to the foetus by a duct, an artery, and vein. TThe duct, which is a mere filament, has been traced along the um- Ubilical cord as far as the umbilicus, and is supposed to communi- ccate with the interior of the small intestine of the foetus, the vesi- ccula umbilicalis being supposed analogous to the membrane of tithe yolk in the ovum of birds. The artery and the vein are con- nnected, the former with the superior mesenteric, the latter with the vvena portae, they have received the name of omphalo-mesenteric. * Meckel, .Manuel d'Anatomie, traduit par Jouidan ct Brescliet, torn. iii. p. 764-. 3 H