386 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. plantar nerve; and by the upper swface, with tlie deep-seated muscles of the sole of the foot. 1432. Its uses are to bend the three phalanges on each other, and the toes on the metatarsus, and to extend the foot on tlie leg. It acts much in standing. OF THE TIRIALIS POSTICUS. 1433. Elongated, Hat, much thicker above than below, and some- what of the form of a triangular prism, this muscle bifurcates at its upper part to allow a passage to the anterior tibial vessels. Thff outer and smaller branch of this bifurcation, arises from the inner and back part of the fibula ; the other, which is larger, is attached to the oblique line of the tibia, to its posterior surface, and to the interosseous ligament. From thence the muscle descends at firsfr nearly verticiilly and afterwards a little inwards, successively re- ceiving fibres which come from an aponeurotic septum, placed be- tween it and the flexor communis digitorum and flexor proprius poUicis ; it increases in size to its middle part, and diminishes far- ther down. It terminates at length by a tendon which commences pretty high upon its inner and fore side, and which, after becom- ing free, passes into the groove formed behind the malleolus inter- nus, as we have already mentioned (1430), where it increases much in breadth, to bo inserted at the lower and inner part of the OS scaphoides, and by a prolongation into the base of the internal cuneiform bone. The portion of this tendon which passes under the head of the astragalus contains a sesamoid bone. 1434. The anterior surface of this muscle covers the fibula, the. tibia, a large extent of the interosseous ligament, and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament (749). The posterior surface is co- vered by the soleus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor proprius pollicis muscles, and by the malleolar fibrous sheath (1430). 1435. It extends the foot upon the leg, raising its inner edge. It also extends the leg upon the foot. OF THE FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS. 1436. Fleshy, thick and flattened above, of the form of a trian- gular prism in the middle, slender and tendinous below, and situ-, ated at the back part of the leg and under part of the foot, this muscle arises from the two lower thirds of the posterior surface of ( the fibula, from the interosseous ligament, and from two aponeuro^ j tic pal-titions which separate it from the two preceding muscles on ' the one hand, and on the other from the peroneus longus and pe- roneus brevis. It descends vertically behind the fibula, becoming | larger as far as its middle, and then contracting again. Arrive^ at the lower part of the leg, it terminates by a tendon at first con-