PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 515. Tlie Upper, or Tibial E.vtremiti/, is rounded, and is ge- nerally known by the name of the Head {cajjitulum), of the Fibula. It presents a somewhat concave surface, inclined inwards and forwards, which is articulated with the external tuberosity of the tibia, (508). It is terminated posteriorly by a pyramidal pro- cess, which is directed upwards. Its whole circumference presents inequalities which give attachment to ligaments, and especially to the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and the tendon of the biceps flexor miiscle. 516. The Lower, or Tarsal Extremity, is elongated, flattened from within outwards, terminated inferiorly by a pointed projection, and forms the Outer Ankle (Malleolus Ewterniis), which is larger, and descends lower than the internal. Its outer surface is convex, and lies immediately under the skin. The inner presents a small triangular smooth surface, concave from behind forwards, convex from above downwards, which is articulated to the astragalus, and is limited behind by a rough uneven depression, giving attachment to one of the posterior ligaments of the ankle-joint. Above this articular surface is a rough triangular space, which connects the fibula with the tibia. Anteriorly, the malleolus externus presents a thin uneven edge, into which ligaments are inserted. Posteriorly, is another much broader edge, on which there is a groove for the passage of the tendons of the lateral peronei muscles. Its summit forms a pyramidal eminence which gives insertion to the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. 517. Structure, Development and Articulations. The body of the fibula is formed of compact tissue. Its extremities are chief- ly composed of cellvilar tissue; it contains a medullary canal. It is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each extremity ; and is articulated to the tibia and astra- galus. OF THE BONES OF THE TARSUS.* (Ossa Tarsi.) OF THE CALCANEUM, OR OS CALCIS.-)* 518. This bone occupies the posterior and inferior part of the tarsus, and especially contributes to form the heel by the large prominence which it presents behind. It is elongated posteriorly, and slightly compressed on either side. It is the largest bone in this part of the lower extremity. Its upper surface presents posteriorly a space, concave from be- fore backw2U-ds, convex in the transverse direction, situated ante^ * Ta^ffos of the Greeks ; Tarsun among the Ijatins. •)• ImX); of the Greeks ; in Latin, Culv, the Heel.