MUSCLES OF THE BACK. mkldle of the thorax. After unituig witli each other, these pro- cesses ascend obliquely outwards, and terminate in tendons at first united by their neighbouring edges, so as to form a sort of mem- brane, then isolated, and becoming longer and more slender the hic^her they are. These tendons, which cover the posterior sur- face of the Heshy bundles, are attached below the angle of the up- per ribs and to the tuberosity of the lirst, as well as to the summit of the last four or five transverse processes of the neck. This por- tion of the muscle has received the name of Cervicalis Descendens. 837- The posterior surface of the sacro-lumbalis has the same connexions as that of the longissimus dorsi. The anterior sur- face covers the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, the ribs, the external intercostal muscles, the longissimus dorsi and trans- versaUs colli. The inner surface, is applied against the longissimus dorsi, being only separated from it by branches of the dorsal nerves. Its outer edge, between the pelvis and thorax, corresponds to the point of junction of the posterior and middle laminae of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis. 838. These two muscles prevent the vertebral column from yielding to the weight of the organs placed before it, which would tend to drag it forwards; they bend it backwards when they act in conjunction with those of the opposite side, and laterally when acting singly. The sacro-lumbalis may serve to depress the lower ribs in particular, or to raise the upper, according as it acts from the lumbar region or from the cervical. The longissimus dorsi fixes the transverse processes, tending to lower them upon the pelvis, and concurs in this manner, with the semi-spinalis dorsi and multifidus spinje to keep the vertebral column erect. 839. The longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis are exposed : in- feriorly, by removing the fascia lumborum and inferior serratus; in the middle, by removing the vertebral aponeurosis, and then the superior serratus ; and above, by dissecting away the splenius. A cellular and adipose line, together with some vessels and nerves, indicates the division between the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lum- balis, which require to be separated from each other for the pur- pose of examining the external attachments of the one, and inter- nal attachments of the other. OF THE SPINALIS DORSI. 84-0. This muscle is applied upon the lateral surfaces of the spinous processes, from the third or fourth dorsal vertebra, to the first or second lumbar. It arises by three, four, five, six, seven, -or eight tendons, sometimes split, so much the longer and stronger the higher they are, from the spinous processes of the dorsal ver- fl' ^^^"^ second to the ninth. From these tendon-s arise the fleshy fibres, which form thin narrow fasciculi, broader in the middle than at the extremities, convex externally, concave internally.