496 ORGANS OF SENSATION. gains the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, accompany- ing the artery of this name, and gives off hiterally several filaments which are destined for the flexor digitoruni profundus and flexor longus poUicis. Arrived at the upper edge of the pronator qua- dratus, it dives under it giving it some filaments, and then emerges by the inferior aperture of the interosseous Ugament (669) to be expanded over the back of the hand, where it furnishes a great number of ramifications which become superficial, but do not extend so far as those of the interosseous artery which they accompany. 1766. Pretty frequently, after giving rise to the interosseous twig, the median nerve furnishes another which descends inwards, follows the course of the ulnar artery, and anastomoses with the ulnar nerve. It then sends some irregular filaments to the flexors of the fingers and flexor carpi radialis. But, at the lower part of the fore-arm, there separates from it the cutaneous palmar twig^ which is of considerable size, issues between the tendons of the flexor sublimis, and loses itself in the integuments of the palm of the hand, after a short course. 1767- First Digital Twig. Directed obliquely outwards, it immediately gives off* several filaments to the abductor, opponens and flexor brevis poUicis, descends along the latter, to which it gives off a ramification, and following the radial edge of the thumb, arrives at its extremity. Opposite the first phalanx, it throws backwards into the integuments of the posterior surfjice of the thumb, a filament which also ascends outwards. Frequently also the first filaments which escape from it to be distributed among the muscles of the ball of the thumb, form an entirely dis- tinct twig. 1768. Second Digital Twig. It follows at first the direction of the preceding twig; but separates from it-as it descends, to pro- ceed over the ulnar edge of the first bone of the metacarpus and of the thumb, giving a filament to the flexor brevis, and several other ramifications to the integuments of the posterior surface of that finger. 1769. Third Digital Twig. Placed upon the first of the lum- bricales muscles, it furnishes it at first with a filament, then des-' cends along the radial edge of the second metacarpal bone and fore-finger to the extremity of the latter, where, after giving oft' one or two posterior filaments, it expands and anastomoses with one of the branches of the next twig. 1770. Fourth Digital Twig. Descending between the second and third metacarpal bones, it gives a filament to the second of the lumbricales muscles, and bifurcates opposite the separation of the fore and middle finger, and sometimes sooner. One of these se- condary twigs follows the ulnar edge of the first, the other the ra- dial edge of the second of these fingers. They both furnish fila- ments posteriorly to the integuments, opposite the first phalanges, and are expanded upon the summits of the fingers. 1771. Fifth Digital Twig. It follows the original direction of