OF THE INTiiRMAL POPLITEAL NliRVE. 517 1852. External Saphenal branch (communicam tihicB). It arises from tlie tibial nerve, at about an inch above the correspond- iiio- condyle of the femur, descends with the external vena saphcaa along the back part of the leg, in the interval which separates the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle above. It then places it^ self behind their union, gains the outer side of the tendo Achillis, sends several filaments to the integuments, and joins a branch of the peroneal nerve (1843). There results a pretty large trunk, named the Ercternal Saphenus Nerve, which continues to descend on the outer side of the leg, behind the peroneus longus and under the aponeurosis. There then proceed from it a gi-eat number of filaments which almost all enter beneath the tendo Achillis, and are spread out to a distance upon the sheath which is anterior to it. It then winds behind the outer ankle, gains the outer and upper extremity of the foot, reaches the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and there divides into two secondary twigs, after sending several filaments to the abductor minimi digiti, and sur- rounding cellular tissue. Of these two twigs, the inner, which is placed above the extensor brevis digitorum, follows the fourth meta- tarsal bone and Iqges itself on the corresponding sides of the last two toes; v/hile the outer runs along the outer edge of the foot and little toe, and distributes there a certain number of filaments. 1853. In the hollow of the ham itself, the tibial nerve sends one or two very distinct tv.dgs to the upper part of each head of the gastrocnemius muscle. It gives ofi^ another, which divides in the soleus muscle after a considerable course. It also furnishes some to the popliteus and plantaris muscles, and to the knee joint; while a last twig winds vuader the lower edge of the popliteus mus- cle, sends off a long filament which follows the course of the posterior tibial artery, gives some others to the tibialis posticus muscle, passes through the superior aperture of the interosseous ligament, and is expanded in the upper part of the anterior muscles of the leg, anastomosing with the filaments of the anterior tibial nerve. 1854«. After passing through the arch of the soleus mviscle, the tibial nerve furnishes several long and slender filaments which descend around the posterior tibial artery, and anastomose fre- quently with each other. They then lose themselves in the lower part of the soleus and of the muscles which occupy the pos- terior and deep region of the leg. Farther down, there are detach- ed some other filaments which go to the integuments. But towards the inner ankle, there arises another, which, uniting with one of the preceding, goes to the integuments of the sole of the foot. 18.55. Of the Internal Plantar Nerve. Thicker than the outer, which forms an acute angle with it at its separation, it proceeds directly and horizontally forwards above the abductor poUicis, be- side the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, to the posterior extre- mity of the first metatarsal bone, and in its passage gives ramifica- tions to the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and acces- sorius muscles. But there, it separates in a variable manner into