PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION; noid process,* (processus coronoideus), a triangular eminence, slightly inclined outwards at its .summit, varying as to size, acutc- noss, and general direction in different individuals. It seems to arise anteriorly from the union of the outer and inner oblique lines, which approach each other as they ascend, leaving in their inter- val a groove into which the buccinator muscle is inserted. The internal oblique line is prolonged on its inner surface, and forms there a pretty considerable projection. The summit of this pro- cess is embraced by the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its outer surface corresponds to the masseter muscle, the inner to tlie ptery- goidcus internus. 253. Posterior or Parotideal Edge. This edge is free, blunt, nearly vertical, and forms, with the lower edge, the angle of the jaw, (angulus ma;vUlaris), which is more or less obtuse, seldom right, and freqviently deflected outwards. Externally the angle gives insertion to the masseter, internally to the pterygoideus in- ternus, posteriorly and between these muscles to the sfiylo-maxillary ligament. The posterior edge, which corresponds nearly in its whole ex- tent to the parotid gland, becomes gradually broader toward its upper part, and is terminated above by an oblong convex eminence, higher within than without, bent forwards, and directed obliquely inwards and backwards, so that its axis, if prolonged, would form an angle of from 110° to 146° with that of the opposite side: this eminence is the condyle, (processus candyloideus), which serves to articulate the lower jaw with the temporal bone, being for that purpose covered "with cartilage. At the back part, it gradually loses its convex form; anteriorly it is somewhat curved, and pre- sents an uneven ridge at the place where the cartilage ceases; ex- ternally, it presents a small tubercle, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the joint. The condyle is supported upon a sort of pedicle, named its Neck, which is marked anteriorly by a depression into which the pterygoideus externus is inserted, and also gives attachment, externally and above, to the external lateral ligament. The condyle is separated from the coronoid pro- cess by the sigmoid notch, (incisura signioidea), which is traversed by the masseteric nerve and vessels. 254. Structure. The lower maxillary bone is formed of a thick plate, bent upon itself, compact externally, cellular within, and traversed in the greater part of its extent, by the inferior dentar canal. This canal, whose position varies at different periods of life, passes obliquely through the substance of the bone, gradually di- minishing in size as it proceeds, at the base of the coronoid pro- cess and under the summits of the alveoli, from the middle of the inner surface of the rami of the jaw to the incisive teeth; after which it turns back upon itself, forming an angle, and terminates ■ So named from its lescmbUirux to the beuk of u crow, in Greek »o;utn.