715 OF THE OBTUllATOll AllTERY. OF THE VKSICAL AllTERIES. (Art. vesicates.) 2579. They present many variations as to number and origin. 'The umbilical artery always furnishes three or four, which ramify iin the walls of the bladder, and anastomose there with each other, ; and with the neighbouring branches. The middle hasmorrhoidal, ! internal pudic, and obturator arteries furnish others. But the ! hypogastric produces one a little larger, which gains the fundus of I the organ, and sends it numerous twigs, as well as to the com- I mencement of the urethra, and in the male, to the prostate gland, vesiculas seminales and vas deferens. Its last ramifications reach as far as the rectum. OF THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. (Art. obturatoria.) 2580. It arises most commonly from the hypogastric or glutasal, but is also sometimes produced by the epigastric; and, in the lat- ter case, descends vertically behind the iliac bone as far as the ob- turator hole. In the former case, which, as we have said, is the most common, it directs itself forwards and outwards, then turns horizontally into the excavation of the pelvis, over the obturator internus muscle, under the nerve of the same name, along with which it issues from the pelvis through the empty space left by the obturator membrane. In this course it is slightly flexuous. 2-581. Near its origin, it gives off a pretty large twig which as- cends under the obturator nerve, arrives in the iliac fossa, and is distributed to the iliacus internus muscle. It then throws a great number of small twigs into the obturator internus muscle, upon the neighbouring lymphatic ganglia, and sometimes upon the blad- der. Immediately before entering into the obturator hole, it gives off a small branch which directs itself behind the symphysis pubis, spreads out some ramifications upon the periosteum, and anasto- moses with a similar branch of the opposite obturator artery. 2582. At its exit from the pelvis, on the upper edge of the ob- turator externus muscle, the obturator artery divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. 2583. Posterior Brancli. It descends along the outer edge of the obturator hole, placed between the two obturator muscles, in which it sometimes directly loses itself In general, however, it reaches as far as the sciatic tuberosity, bends outwards beneath the quadratus femoris muscle, and gains transversely the back part of the thigh, where it gives several twigs to the ileo-fcmoral articu- lation, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the sciatic