102 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. of the upper maxillary bone, and consequently divided into two portions by a longitudinal suture. This groove, which lodges the lachrymal sac, terminates below in the Nasal Canal. The circum- ference of the orbit gives attachment particularly to the orbicularis palpebrarum. 350. The Axis of the orbit, which forms a slight angle with that of the optic hole, is however, like it, placed so obliquely that it would meet posteriorly that of the opposite side, but at a point be- hind the intersection of the axes of the optic holes. The inner wall alone proceeds directly backwards, parallel to that of the other orbit. The three others are inclined. 351. From what has been said, it is seen that the bones which enter into the composition of the orbit, are the sphenoid, ethmoid, frontal, upper maxillary, palatine, lachrymal and malar bones. OF THE NASAL FOSS^. (Cavum nasi; nares iniernce.) 352. These cavities are of an irregular form, which however is nearly that of a parallelopiped ; they are broader below than above, but longer in the latter direction, higher in the middle than before and behind, and present several appendages, which are formed by the different sinuses that exist in the bones of the head, and of which we have already spoken. They are not exactly similar, the right to the left; they are separated from each other by an inter- mediate septum {septum ^^ar^Mw), formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone above, and the vomer below and at the back part; and occupy the space situated beneath the anterior part of the base of the cranium, above the mouth, between the orbits, the canine, temporal and zygomatic fossae, and before the guttural ca- vity. Their walls, which are four in number, terminate anteriorly at the nose, and posteriorly at the throat. 353. The Upper Wall or Vault of the nasal fossas is disposed in three different directions; anteriorly, where it is formed by the bones of the nose, it looks backwards and downwards ; in the mid- dle, where there is seen the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, it is horizontal; posteriorly, where it belongs to the body of the sphenoid bone, it is turned forwards and downwards. In the first portion, is observed the inner surface of the nose, much narrower than the outer, surmounted by a crest towards the imiddle line, concave transversely, straight from above downwards, marked with a furrow for the internal nasal nerve, and perforated with one or two small vascular apertures. It presents externally the suture, which joins the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone to the nasal. At the union of the anterior with the middle portion, there is observed a somewhat indistinct suture, formed by the nasal notch