ARTICULATIONS OF THK SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 211 6'83. Pnlmar or Anterior Ligaments. These ligaments, wliicli are not so strong as the dorsal, arc placed deeply under the ante- rior radio-carpal ligament, and directing themselves transversely, are attached on the one hand to the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and on the other to the latter bone and the cuneiform. In passing from one of these bones to the other, they contract adhesions to the interosseous ligaments. 68-l<. The pisiform bone is articulated to the cuneiform in a dif- ferent manner. The rounded surface by which it corresponds to the cuneiform bone is covered with cartilage, and gives attachment, by its circumference, to a small isolated and rather loose synovial membrane, strengthened by some irregular bundles of fibres. AIITICULATIONS OF THE HONES OF THE SECOND ROW OF THE CAIIPUS. 685. Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments. They present the same disposition as those of the first row; but there are three of each kind which extend transversely, from the trapezium to the trape- zoides, from the latter to the os magnum, and from the os magnum to the OS unciforme. The dorsal ligaments are more distinct than the palmar. 686. Interosseous Ligaments. Of these there are only two, one between the trapezoides and os magnum, and one between the OS magnum and os unciforme. The first is less marked than the second, which occupies a space situated before the articular sur- faces. Both are irregular fasciculi, intermingled with adipose tissue. ARTICULATION OF THE TWO UOWS OF THE CARPAL BONES WITH EACH OTHEU. 687. This articulation is composed of two arthrodire, and an en- arthrosis; the contiguity of the scaphoid bone to the trapezium and trapezoides on the one hand, and on the other, that of the cuneiform to the unciform bone, constitute the two arthrodiae. The enarthrosis is formed by the reception of the head of the os magnum into a cavity, formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones. The surfaces by which these bones are in contact, are covered by thin cartilages, and are kept together by ligaments. 688. External and Internal Lateral Ligaments. They are very short, and appear to be continuous with the lateral ligaments of the radio-carpal articulation. The first, which is the strongest and most apparent, arises from the outer part of the scaphoid bone, and terminates at that of the trapezium. The second descends from the cuneiform bone to the os unciforme. 689. Anterior Ligament. This ligament, which is formed of