ORGANS OF SENSATION. the roots of the last three or four molar teeth. One of these fila- ments penetrates into the maxillary sinus by a particular orifice, follows its outer wall, and anastomoses with a twig of the ante- rior dentar nerve; another of them does not enter the canals of the tuberosity, but turns over the alveolar margin, and is distri- buted to the gums, the buccinator and pterygoideus iutemus muscles. 1658. In the interior of the infra-orbitar canal, tlie nerve of which we speak furnishes no branch, but seems divided into seve- veral fasciculi which remain connected together and proceed paral- lel to each other. At its foremost part, however, there is detach- ed inferiorly a pretty considerable twig : this is the anterior deti- tar nerve, which descends in the canal of the same name (198), furnishes to the mucous membrane of the maxillary sinus a fila- ment which anastomoses with one of the posterior dentar nerves (1657) divides into several others, which have each their par- ticular canal, and are distributed to the roots of the incisors, canine, and first two molar teeth of the corresponding side. Sometimes these nerves creep beneath the membrane of the sinus, and fur- nish it with some very slender filaments. They also give some ramifications to the pituitary membrane covering the inferior tur- binated bone, which have particular canals. 1659. Infra-orbitar Twigs. They issue from the infra-orbitar hole, behind the levator labii superioris, to which they give some very delicate ramifications; they result from the expansion of the superior maxillary trunk itself. Their number is indeterminate, but always considerable. They separate from each other in a ra- diating manner, and, by their anastomoses with one another and with tlie facial and buccal nerves, constitute a kind of plexus be- tween the prominence of the cheek and the nose. Of these twigs, some, the superior or palpebral, which are few in number, are dis- tributed to the lower eyelid, the orbicularis palpebrarum and pyra- midalis nasi muscles, the integuments of the cheek, the caruncula lachrymalis and the lachrymal sac, anastomosing with the filaments of the external nasal nerve, (1654) the facial nerve, and sometimes those of the lachrymal nerve which have traversed the cheek bone ; others, the inferior or labial, which are more numerous and larger, furnish ramifications to the levator labii, levator anguh oris, and or- bicularis oris muscles, and to the skin, as well as to the mucous follicles of the lips. Others again, the inter7ial or nasal, are ex- panded over the back and wing of the nose, in the levator labii su- perioris ala?que nasi, triangularis nasi, and depressor alas nasi muscles, around the aperture of the nostrils, and communicate with filaments of the internal nasal nerve (1653). The last, or external twigs are distributed to the two zygomatic muscles, the levator an- guli oris, and the slcin. They form anastomoses with the twigs of the facial nerve.