5.54 ORGANS OF SENSATION. is continuous with that of the inner surface of the choroid mem brane (1959). This surface is in the most immediate conncxioi 1 •with the ciliary processes, and when it has been wiped there is ob served upon it a great number of straight, convergent, prominen lines, blending into a membraneous zone near the pupil, and aj) pearing to be the continuation of these small membraneous bodies There are also seen upon it numerous very distinct villosities. 1965. The great circumference of the iris corresponds froii without inwards to the ciliary circle (1961), the choroid membraiT and the ciliary processes. It may easily be detached from the.s( various parts. Its small circumference forms the limits of th. pupil. 1966. The iris is composed of two laminae intimately unitc( near the pupil, but which may be separated towards its great cii cumference. Several anatomists of great merit have admitted mu cular fibres in the iris, and recently Dr. Maunoir, of Geneva, iA very distinguished surgeon, seems to have confirmed their exis- tence, which however is denied by most authors of our day. B[( discovered, by means of a strong lens, that these fibres form tw{ kinds of planes ; an outer, radiated, broader, corresponding to the outer coloured ring, and dilating the pupil; an inner, narrower composed of circular fibres, corresponding to the inner coloxirec ring, and contracting the pupil in the manner of a sphincter. I have observed the disposition pointed out by M. Maunoir, and M Bauer has since confirmed it, as well as Sir Everard Home. 1967. We have already described the nerves of the iris, (1862). Its arteries are furnished by the long ciliary arteries. Its veins go to the vasa vorticosa of the choroid membrane and long ciliary veins. We shall speak of them afterwards. 1968. In the foetus, up to the seventh month of gestation, the; pupil is closed by a grayish membrane, provided with very appar- ent blood vessels, much thinner than the iris, transparent, colour-! less, and disappearing towards the period of birth. It is named the; Membrana pupillaris, after Wachendorf, who first discovered it in 1738. So long as the membrana pupillaris is entire, it forms with the iris a complete septum, which separates the two chambers of the eye, and prevents all communication between them. It is besides flat and attached to the whole circumference of the pupil, so as to be continued over the anterior surface of the iris. The membrana pupillaris is evidently formed of two diaphanous laminae, the posterior of which belongs to the corresponding cham-. ber of the eye, and arises from the circumference of the pupil; the anterior comes from the membrane of the aqueous humour which lines the posterior surface of the cornea, and the whole ant6-! rior chamber of the eye.* * J\i\es CAoqnet, Memoire sur la Mcmhranc. piipillairc. Paris, 1818, 8vo. with fi- gures. The admirable memoir of Dr. Arilliam Hunter on tlie membrana impillatis loft notliing to be desired on this subject.