ORGANS OF SENSATION. 484 OF TH15 FIIIST PAIU ("KUVICAL NERVES OH SHU-OCCl I'lTAf, NEllVES. 1726. The First Cervical Nartie, {nerviis cervicalis primus), arises upon the sides of the spinal marrow, immediately under the medulla oblongata, by seven or eight filaments united into two or three bundles before the liganientum dentatum. Sometimes two or three other filaments, issuing from the spinal marrow behind that ligament, form a separate root for it, a little inferior to the other. The spinal accessory nerve sometimes passes between these two origins ; but most commonly it is placed behind the posterior, and communicates with the anterior (I7I6). The two roots of the nerve converge and proceed outwards and backwards. The anterior receives a filament from the second cer- vical nerve. 'J"hey traverse the fibrous canal by which the vertebral artery enters the skull in the reverse direction of that vessel, and place themselves between it and the groove of the posterior arch of the atlas, connected with these parts by a pretty dense cellular tis- sue. There, they unite, and form a very elongated ganglion, from which emanate two branches, an anterior and a posterior. 1727- Anterior branch. Long, slender, and smaller than the posterior, this branch turns at first, from within, outwards, then from behind forwards, over the outer edge of the vertebral artery, passes above the transverse process of the atlas, and soon appears between the rectus capitis anticus minor and rectus capitis | lateralis muscles. It then changes its direction, descends before i the transverse process, and terminates by anastomosing with a | filament of the second cervical nerve, so as to embrace that process by a kind of arch. This branch gives off successively in its course, 1st, one or two filaments to the rectus capitis lateralis, and rectus capitis anticus minor; 2dly, a very slender filament which accompanies the ver- tebral artery as far as the basilar trunk, and which is sometimes wanting ; 3dly, another more constant filament, longer and equally slender, which descends to the inner part of the canal which lodges that vessel along the cervical column, and there anastomoses with an ascending filament of the inferior cervical ganglion, and with the trunk of the second cervical nerve at its passage between the atlas and axis; 4thly, a twig to the upper part of the rectus ca- pitis anticus major. From the arch which it forms with the second cervical nerve, arise several other small filaments which communi- cate with the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves (1721) and with the superior cervical ganglion. 1728. Posterior branch. Thicker and shorter than the other- it ascends a little backwards through the adipose cellular tissue, which fills the triangular space comprised between the obliquus ca- pitis inferior and superior, and the rectus capitis posticus major muscles, and, after running a course of four or five lines, divides