255 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. OF THE SEMISPINALIS COLLI, SEMISPINALIS UOKSI, AND MULTl- FIUUS SPIX.E. 854. These muscles consist of a number of small fleshy fasci- culi, situated at the inner part of each vertebral groove, from the axis to the posterior surface of the sacrum, extended from the transverse processes to the spinous processes of all the vertebrae, frequently confounded with each other, and contracting more or less intimate unions with the interspinales dorsi et lumborum and longissimus dorsi. Of these muscular fasciculi, some are super- ficial, the others deep and covered by the former The superficial are divided into two muscles, the semispinalis colli, and the semi- spinalis dorsi. 855. The semispinalis colli arises from the extremities of five or six of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from whence its fasciculi proceed obliquely from below upwards and from with- out inwards, to be attached to the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae from the fifth to the second. 856. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the posterior and supe- rior part of the summit of the transverse processes of the eleventh, tenth, ninth, eighth, seventh, and sometimes the sixth dorsal ver- tebrae, by five or six tendons, shorter and thicker in the lower, longer and more slender in the upper part. Each of them re- ceives fleshy fibres which constitute a fusiform bundle, at first round and thick, then thin and narrow, and which are terminated by other tendons, flat, and larger than those of the origin, to the num- ber of five, six, seven," or eight, which attach themselves to the lower and lateral part of the spinous processes of the three, four, or five first dorsal vertebrae, and of the two last cervical. Some of them have the superior tendons bifurcated or even divided into three or four branches, and attaching themselves to several spinous processes at once, intermingling with those of the neighbouring fas- ciculi. 867. The deep portion or multifidus spines, consists of from twenty-five to twenty-seven bundles. They arise separately from three or four tubercles of the sacrum, which correspond to the arti- cular processes, from the sacro-iliac ligament, from the backmost part of the crista ilei, the articular processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae, transverse processes of the dorsal, and articular proces- ses of the four last cervical vertebrae, by conical tendons, whose divergent fibres, after a short course, furnish the fleshy body, which ascends obliquely inwards, widening and becoming thicker, and is m a great measure confounded with the neighbouring bundles. 1 nese muscular fasciculi are much more distinct in the loins and neck, than in the back and behind the sacrum. Other tendons proceed mternally from these fleshy bodies, and attach themselves to the lower edge of the spinous processes of the sacrum, of all tlic lumbar and dorsal vertebrae, and six last ceryical, in such a