OF THE PELVIS IN GliNEIlAL. 117 tioii is termed the Branch or Ramus: as to the ischium, it is its posterior part which forms the Body, and the anterior the Rami/n. 402. Articulations. The os innominatum is articulated to the sacrum, the os innominatum of the opposite side, and the femur. OF THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE PELVIS. External Surface. 403. Anteriorly, this surface, which is inclined downwards, pre- sents, in the middle,where it is covered solely by cellular tissue, and by the skin of the pubic region, the symphysis of the two ossa pubis, which come into contact by a larger surface in the male than in the female; and on the sides, where it is broader, the rugosities into which the adductor muscles are fixed, the obturator holes, and the cotyloid cavities. The latter are placed at a greater dis- tance from each other in the female than in the male. Posteriorly, the pelvis is longer but narrower than before, and is conYex from above downwards, and transversely concave in the upper half. There are observed upon it, in the median line, the posterior tubercles of the sacrum, the end of the sacral canal, the union of the sacrum with the coccyx, and the posterior surface of the latter bone. On each side there occur the posterior sacral foramina, the insertions of the sacro-iliac ligaments, a broad and deep groove, extending vertically between the sacrum and os in- nominatum, and lastly, the posterior spinous processes of the ilium. On the Sides, are the external iliac fossaj, the curved lines to which the glutaei muscles are attached, the edge of the cotyloid cavity, and, at the lower part, the great sciatic notches. In the whole extent of its lateral regions, the pelvis is separated from the skin by thick muscles. Internal Surface. 404. The internal surface of the pelvis is divided into two dis- tinct parts, by a prominent rounded line which circumscribes a tri- angular curvilinear space, the angles of which are very rounded, ^d whose base corresponds to the sacrum. This line is named the Brim or Marffin of the pelvis, while the space which it embraces 18 called the Upper or Abdominal Strait, (introitns seu aper- iura peJvifi superior J. Proceeding from the junction of the sa- crum with the last vertebra, this hne passes over the ilium and is prolonged upon the pubcs; it is much more distinct posteriorly and on the sides than before. The abdominal strait has the torm of an ellipse, whose greatest axis is transverse, and whose