ORGANS OF SENSATION. 407 I transparent or opaque, which vary much in size and number, and ; sometimes are entirely wanting. 1500. The arteries of the thyroid body come from the external , carotid and subclavian arteries ; frequently the arch of the aorta : sends a separate branch to it. Its veins are very numerous, and i accompany the arteries, or issue from its lower edge. Its nerves , come from the pneumo-gastric nerves and sympathetic. Its lym- phatics lose themselves in the jugular glands. No appearance of . an excretory duct has ever been discovered in it. ARTICLE THIRD. ORGANS OF SENSATION. OF THE CENTRAL PAKT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ( Encephalon.* ) 1501. The central part of the nervous system, which is con- tained in the cavity of the cranium, and in the vertebral canal (72), is symmetrical and regular, proportionally larger in the child than in the adult, in man than in woman.-f- " It is divided longi- tudinally, and in the direction of the median line of the trunk, into two equal portions, the one right and the other left. But these portions, which in part of their extent are distinct, and separated by a more or less deep fissure, are in several places intimately united by laminae, forming reciprocal commissures." J It consists also of single parts placed along the median line. But, besides this longitudinal division, there are also fissures which divide the brain transversely, and permit it to be considered, for the facility of study only, as formed of four parts, very different from each other in size, situation, texture, and form. The first of these parts is the Brain proper, or Cerebrum, which occupies the greater part of the cavity of the cranium ; the second is the Cerebellum^ "which is much smaller, and lodged in the inferior occipital fossjie; the third, which is situated at the base of the cranium, is the Ce- rebral Protuberance; and the fourth is the Spinal Marrow. * Chaussier. Eyxi^aXof, from b t»j xiUaXj), placed within the head. t At birth, the weight of the brain forms the sixtli, seventh, or eighth part of that oi the wliolc body. In tlic full-grown man it is not more than about the tliirty-fifth part. Chauss. Kxpos. Somm. <ic la Structure de rEucunh, 1807. p. L. \ (.-buussier, Expos. Somm. p. 1G.