OF THE OLFACTORY NERVES. 449 diversity of opinion in authors as the olfactory nerves, whether ith reference to their origin, or to their texture, and even their :se. The ancients considered them as enlunctories, or canals by hhich the serum and pituita, separated by the brain, flowed oft', and lamed them Procesms Mammilares. They formed the subject ■ ■ a long series of discussions, and it is only by the labours of the Aore recent anatomists that we have been apprised of their struc- irure and precise distribution. 1610. The origin of the olfactory nerves takes place by three slaments, named their roots, which have been followed beyond th& iorface, and far into the substance, of the brain. Two of these wots are formed by the white substance, and distinguished into later and inner; the third is gray. 1611. The outer ivhite root, which is the longest, is directed utwards, backwards, and upwards, concealed in a great measure by lae fissura Sylvii, and placed above the contorted branches of the r ternal carotid artery. It arises from the outer region of the cor- iias striatum (1534), and becomes apparent externally at the most rmote part of the anterior lobe of the brain, at its point of union idth the middle lobe, upon the gray substance of its last convolu- oon, in the midst of very distinct apertures which give passage to as laany large vascular trunks that penetrate into the brain. It also eequently receives in this region one or two small medullary flla- laents which make it appear palmated. 1612. The inner white root, which is shorter and broader, pre- cnts a silvery colour, like the preceding. It appears to be con- lounded posteriorly and internally with the white substance which MJcupies the inner part of the fissura Sylvii, and is prolonged as nr as the anterior part of the corpus callosum, being sometimes tifurcated; but, like the other, it always seems incrusted in the aray substance, and appears only traced upon the inferior surface f the brain. 1613. Frequently the mode of origin of these two roots is not lie same to the right and left; frequently also, in the angle which sesults from their union, there are observed some white filaments I'hich join them, and which proceed from the nearest cerebral con- tolution. Sometimes, one or other of them divides, in the mid- dle of its course, into two branches which soon unite, so as to cir- itumscribe a kind of island of gray substance. 1614. The gray root has the form of a pyramidal body laid over 'he point of junction of the preceding two, and united to them by ' ts summit, which is directed forwards. After this junction, it be- omes a thin cord, always retaining its grayish colour, which pre- ails upon the middle of the upper surface of the nerve. On slit- •ng It in the direction of its length, its centre is found occupied by ■hite substance, and at the distance of three or four lines beyond :s union, the gray matter is gradually seen to become thinner and t length to disappear altogether, so as to leave this central me- ullary part exposed, ti 2 o