184 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. gament; the itiiddlo ones descend as far as the posterior sur- i face of the axis; while the more superficial are incorporated i with the ligament we are now going to describe. The pos- terior common ligament extends at the back part of the bodies i of the vertebrae, from that of tlie axis to the sacrum. It is broader in the neck and back, than in the lumbar region, where it is so narrow as not to be more than two lines broad in all parts of its i course, it is broader opposite each intervertebral substance, than on ! the bodies of the vertebrfi; themselves, which gives it the form of a long band contracted at intervals. It is smooth, and of a very shining pearly white ; it does not, like the former, present distinct i bundles of fibres or intervals for the passage of vessels. It is in general denser and more compact' than the anterior ligament, rather thin in the lumbar and cervical regions, and thickest in the back. Its posterior surface is in contact with the dura mater which envelopes the spinal man-ow, and is connected with it by an extremely loose filamentous cellular tissue, of a reddish colour, not containing fat, but very susceptible of serous infiltration. This disposition is particularly apparent at the lower part, for at the up- i per, the dura mater is pretty intimately united to the ligament. The anterior surface corresponds to the bodies of the vertebrae, and to the posterior part of the circumference of the intervertebral i fibro-cartilages, and adheres much more firmly to the latter than i the former, to which it is only attached at their upper and lower i parts. In the middle, it is separated from the bone by an interval, I in which are lodged the vessels which ramify in the spongy tissue \ of the vertebra. Its lateral edges are in connexion with the venous i sinuses of the vertebral canal, and are raised to allow the vessels | to pass, at the separation of the preceding ligament. This ligament, like the anterior, is composed of superficial fibres, ! occupying the interval of four or five vertebrae or fibro-cartilages, : and of deep fibres, extended over two vertebrae only, or even over a single vertebra and its fibro-cartilage. 598. Inter-vertebral Fibro-cartilages. (Ligamenta inter-verte- > hralia, Weit.) These organs resemble sections of cylinders, of a whitish colour, firm, and possessed of flexibility. They are si- tuated between the bodies of the vertebrae, from the interval which separates the second and third, to that which exists between the i last vertebra and the sacrum. Their form corresponds to that of ' the bodies of the vertebrae with which they are connected, being oval in the neck and loins, while in the dorsal region they are circular. The fibro-cartilages of the neck and upper part of the back, are : much thinner than those of the lower part of the back and loins, the latter having a thickness of half an inch. But each of them lias not an equal thickness in all parts of its extent; in the loins and neck, they are thinner behind than before, and the reverse in the dorsal region ; which constitutes one of the principal causes of the triple curvature of the spine. By their upper and under swfaces, the fibro-cartilages, closely