ORGANS OF SECRETION. 796 row, transverse, smooth, triangular cavity, without any known ori- fice, furnished in its inferior part with an eminence in the form of a ridge, and containing in the foetus a considerable quantity of a red- dish, viscous fluid, coagulable by alcohol. In children, this fluid is yellowish; in old people brown, and in very small quantity. 2930. The supra-renal capsules receive a great number of arte- ries from the aorta, the inferior phrenic and renal arteries, which are larger in the child than in the adult. The veins of those of the right side pour their blood into the vena cava ; those of the left side open into the renal vein. Their lymphatics enter into the forma- tion of the emulgent and inferior diaphragmatic plexuses. Their nerves come from the renal plexuses (1921). OF THE KIDNEYS.* GENERAL CONFOUMATION. 2931. The Kidneys (Renes), the secreting organs of the urine, are two glands deeply situated in the lumbar regions, on the sides of the vertebral column, opposite the last two dorsal and the two first lumbar vertebrae, behind the peritoneum, one to the right, the other to the left. Their number sometimes varies : thus indivi- duals have been seen to present three kidneys, and others a single kidney lying transversely upon the vertebral column. The kidneys are enveloped on all sides by a very solid and very thick mass of fat, in which they seem embedded. It is also com- monly observed that the left kidney is higher than the right, on ac- count of the difference in size between the liver and spleen. The colour of the kidneys is a dark red, inclining to brown. Their form is that of an ovoid compressed on two surfaces, and notched on its inner edge, like a kidney-bean. Their volume is proportionally larger in children than in adults, in women than in men. 2932. The anterior surface of the kidneys is very convex and sometimes completely covered by the peritoneum. At other times it is more or less in connexion, to the right side, with the vertical portion of the duodenum, the liver and the ascending colon, and to the left, with the spleen and the descending colon. 2933. Their posterior surface, which is almost flat, is applied j upon a thick layer of fat which separates it from the diaphragm and the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle. 2934. Their circumference presents : 1st, superiorly, a thick and rovindcd extremity, embraced by the corresponding renal cap- sule : 2dly, inferiorly, a thin and somewhat elongated extremity, which approaches more or less the iliac spine ; 3dly, externally, a thick convex edge, inclined backwards; 4thly, internally, a deep * Nif g«i of the Greeks. 1