OF THE OMENTA. 839 OF THE OMENTA OK EPIl'LOA.* 3079. Hepato-gastric Omentum (omentum minus). This is a fold of the peritoneum, with which we are already acquainted, and which extends transversely from the right side of the cardia to the corresponding extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver, and from above downwards, from the inferior surface of the diaphragm to the pylorus and duodenum. It is under it that the foramen of Winslow occurs, and between its two laminie that the biliary and hepatic vessels are lodged. It contains in general little fat. 3080. The Great Omentum {omentum majus) is a very large fold, free and floating upon the convolutions of the intestine. It "is regularly quadrilateral, and commonly longer on the left side than on the right. Its base is attached anteriorly to the great cur- vature of the stomach, and posteriorly to the arch of the colon. Its edges are continuous above, the one with the colic omentum, the other with the gastro-splenic omentum, and farther down with the neighbouring portions of the lumbar cola. It is formed of two laminae, each composed of two lamellae, the one superficial, the other deep. The two lamellae of the anterior J lamina leave between them and the great curvature of the stomach ' a triangular space (2152) ; but they are afterwards confounded, proceed downwards, and then turning upwards, ascend together to form the posterior lamina. At the upper part of this latter, they separate again to embrace the arch of the colon, and form the transverse mesocolon. The one joins the mesentery, the other as- cends towards the foramen of Winslow. There is found in the substance of the great? omentum a very large quantity of vessels and fat, the latter being generally dispers- ed in flakes. 3081. Colic Omentum. This is a fold of the peritoneum which exists only on the right side, and is placed behind the great omen- tum. It nearly fills the angle formed by the union of the right and transverse portions of the colon. Sometimes it extends as far as the ccecum or towards the spleen. Its two laminae are separat- ed by the colic arteries and veins. 3082. The Gastro-splenic Omentum is formed by the peritone- um, which, fi:om the edges of the fissure of the spleen, proceeds over the cardiac extremity of the stomach. It contains in its sub- stance the splenic vessels and vasa breviora. 3083. Besides the omenta, the peritoneum forms other folds, such as the mesentery, the mcsocola, the mesorectum, the meso- coecum, the broad ligaments of the uterus, the suspensory liga- ments of the liver, the adipose appendages of the large intestine, &c. These, however, have already been described. * , upon ; rkiu, t" Jloai.