776 ORGANS OF SECRETION. of the Stream will prevent our being able to judge whether it con- tinues to flow or not, unless by looking into the glass tube, where we may readily perceive, that it is either gradually sinking, or per- fectly stationary ; and this is the only criterion of its real success: if the mercury sinks too fast, it indicates a rupture in the vessels; as long as the column continues to lessen gradually, we are to hold the pipe in its situation, and when it ceases to flow any longer, secure tlie mercury by a ligature, and withdraw the pipe. " Should there be any outlet to the mercury, through a colla- teral lymphatic, it is to be immediately secured by a needle and ligature. When the mercury has ceased to flow, the pipe remov- ed, and the vessel secured, then proceed to trace the course of the vessel, by a most cautious dissection, with a pair of dissecting for- ceps and finely pointed sharp scissors, taking great care not to wound, in the smallest degree, the vessel containing the mercury ; but should such an accident happen, immediately secure the ori- fice, by pressing it between the finger and thumb, until it can be more securely stopped by a fine ligature, made above and below the orifice, and as near to it as possible, that the rupture may ap- pear trivial. Sometimes when they have lost a considerable portion of the mercury, they may be distended by a second introduction of the pipe into the same, or a communicating collateral branch; but in this system of vessels, there is not so frequent anastomosis as in the arteries and veins. As the dissection for the lymphatics is necessarily very slow and tedious, from the great care required in performing it, it will be proper to prevent the part getting dry by exposure to the air after they have been opened : the best me- thod of preventing this, is to open as little as possible at once, and when left, to cover it over with a wet cloth, three or four times folded."* ARTICLE FIFTH. ORGANS OF THE SECRETIONS. ORGANS OF THE SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE TEARS. ' 2855. These organs, by their continuity, constitute a double apparatus, placed symmetrically on either side of the median hne of the body, and extending from the outer and upper region of • Pole's Anatomical Instructor, p. !)5#