ORGANS OF SENSATION. 464 It then traverses the sigmoid notch of the inferior maxillary bone, between the temporal muscle and the neck of the condyle of the jaw, gives some filaments to the articulation of the jaw, places it- self at the inner surface of the masseter muscle, furnishes it with some filaments posteriorly, and at length loses itself, by several other filaments, in the middle part of that muscle, without ever descending to its inferior insertion. 1664. Buccal Branch {Nervus Buccinatorius). More volu- minous than the preceding, it sometimes arises by a common trunk with the anterior deep temporal nerve (1662), but directs itself from its origin forwards and downwards, passes between the two pterygoid muscles, and gives some filaments to the outer and to the temporal muscle. It then places itself between the pterygoideus internus and the ramus of the jaw, and passes between the coro- noid process and buccinator muscle, on which it divides into seve- ral filaments, after proceeding some time without dividing, and be- coming more and more superficial. All its filaments, to the num- ber of six or seven, anastomose frequently with each other, and come only from the inferior side of the nerve. The first which se- parate from it are very slender, and go to the temporal muscle ; the next are distributed to the buccinator and levator anguli oris muscles, and the skin ; the last go as far as the commissure of the lips, pass under the depressor anguli oris, and lose themselves in its vicinity. Several of them communicate with the facial and in- fra-orbitar nerves. 1665. Pterygoid Branches. There are frequently two, some- times however only one. They are always extremely small and slender. At first deeply concealed between the pterygoid and cir- cumflexus palati muscles, they direct themselves downwards, and terminate in the pterygoideus internus. 1666. Lingual Branch (Nervus lingualis, sen gustatorkis). A little smaller than the inferior dentar nerve, it communicates with it, soon after its origin, by a short but pretty thick filament, which leaves between it and that nerve an interval traversed by the internal maxillary artery. Nearly at the same time the ner- vous filament, known by the name of Chorda Tympani, which arises from the spheno-palatine ganglion, as we shall presently show, is united with the lingual nerve, beneath the glenoid fissure, forming a very acute angle above ; the latter nerve is sensibly in- creased in size by this union. Situated at first between the ptery- goideus externus and circumflexus palati muscles and the pharynx, this nerve afterwards descends obliquely forwards between the pterygoideus internus and the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone, then enters between the submaxillary gland and the mucous mem- brane of the mouth. It then passes, along with Whartons duct, between the mylo-hyoideus and hyoglossus muscles, whence it goes to the inferior and lateral part of the tongue, after ascending above the sublingual gland. 1667- In this course, the gustatory nerve gives to the pter}'-