ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 748 the trunk of the vein itself; it then ascends obliquely between the skin and the fat, receiving many twigs from them. The internal vena saphena then ascends as far as the crural arch, where it discharges itself into the femoral vein. Tlicre, it receives several Abdominal Subcutaneous Veins, a vein which corresponds to the superficial circumflex iliac artery (2G18), and the External Pudic Veins. 2732. External Iliac Vein, {Vena iliaca externa). Placed beneath and a little internally of the artery of the same name (2601), this vein receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and follows precisely the same course. 'J'he Epigastric and Cir- ctiinflex Iliac Veins open into it. It receives moreover in the male a pretty large vein which enters by the inguinal ring, united to the spermatic cord, and which comes from the envelopes of the testicle. or THE VEINS WHICH EOHM THE HYPOGASTKIC OR INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 2733. The Hypogastric Vein, (Vena iliaca interna), placed in the excavation of the pelvis, behind the artery of the same name, is composed of a number of branches corresponding exactly to those of the artery, with the exception of some which we proceed to describe. 2734. Vesical Veins. They are very numerous and of large size. They exhibit differences according to the sex of the subject in which they are examined. In the male, they commence upon the glans by a great number of radicles which unite into two large trunks, the Dorsal Veins of the Penis, which run upon the back of that organ, accompanying the dorsal arteries (2599), and afterwards wind from above down- wards at the exterior of the corpus cavernosum. There, these two veins subdivide into several secondary trunks, and unite with other veins which come from the substance of the scrotum and dartos, and from the external surface of the tunica vaginalis. They then proceed together, mingling with several brandies of the internal pudic vein, to the roots of the corpus cavernosum, enter by tlie arch of the pubes, and continue their course horizontally on the sides of the bladder. After this they unite with new branches ex- panded over the prostate gland and the walls of the bladder, form- ing by their anastomoses a very extensive plexus with numerous meshes, and at length, collecting again into a few trunks, open into the internal iliac vein, near the obturator vein, receiving by the way some veins from the rectum and vesicula^ seminales. In the female, the vesical veins commence by the Dorsal Veins of th e Clitoris, and by a great number of roots spread out in the skin and cellular tissue of the labia. They unite around the vulva,