540 ORGANS OF SENSATION. spleen. But before this there are also given off by it some fila ments which follow the course of the left gastro-epiploic artery and are in part separately lost in the great epiploon. There ar also observed some which accompany the vasa brevia. SUPERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS. 1918. After forming the coeliac plexus, the solar plexus is stil prolonged downwards over the aorta, until the origin of the supe rior mesenteric artery, and there forms a new net-work of very con siderable size, and interspersed with a few ganglia. This plexu descends along with the superior mesentric artery between thi pancreas and the transverse portion of the duodenum which re ceives filaments from it. It immediately expands and passes be twcen the two laminae of the mesentery, there forming a kind o web of very great extent, the meshes of which embrace the lympha tic ganglia of that region, and follow at the same time the twigs o the artery, so as to cover the whole surface of the small intestine It also constantly sends off an isolated bundle of filaments whicl follow the right extremity of the pancreas, and are distributed t( the duodenum along with two or three small arteries. The superior mesenteric plexus, with the aid of the secondary plexuses which it sends over the middle cohc and ileo-colic arteries, ascends into the mesocolon, and gives filaments to the ascending colon and coecum. All the filaments of tl\is plexus are very flexuous, and frequent- ly interrupted by ganglia. The latter are especially observed up, on the edge of the intestine. INFERIOR MESENTERIC PLEXUS. 1919. It is continuous above and before the abdominal aorta •with the preceding, and receives at its commencement a great number of isolated twigs from the lumbar gangha, and from the renal and spermatic plexuses. It then goes to the inferior mesente- ric artery, and forms around its origin a narrow sheath, much le.^ complicated however than that of the superior mesenteric artery. 1 It enters with it into the iliac mesocolon, and towards the edge of I the pelvis divides into two portions. Of these portions, the inner, which is smaller, surrounds the common ihac artery, sends some- straight and but seldom anastomosing twigs along the external iliac artery, and descends into the pelvis along with the hypogas- tric artery, all the branches of which thus receive a small plexus. It is also to be remarked that a great number of filaments of this plexus separate much from the vessels, to go before the sacrum to the hypogastric plexus ; and that those which are appUed upon the 6 i