QUGANS OF DIGESTION. 508 with those of the tongue and pharvnx, and open into tlic jugulai vein. Its nerves are furnished by MeckePs ganglion, and come from the palatine twigs (18(>9). I'lie glosso-pharyngeal nerve also furnishes some filaments to it (1698). 2115. Beneath the velum palati is the posterior aperture of the mouth, the form of which is nearly quadrilateral; it is limited by the base of the tongue, the velum and arch of the palate, and the lateral pillars of the velum, as well as the tonsils. Its size is in no case equal to that of the anterior aperture. It is however subject to vary, but only from above downwards, for on the sides it is li- mited by the pterygoid processes, which are incapable of motion. OF THE TONSILS. 2116. The Tonsils (TonsilltB seu Amygdala;) are bodies lodged between the pillars of the velum palati, the form of which has been compared to that of an almond invested with its woody covering. Their size varies in different subjects, which is also the case witli their figure. They represent an ovoid, of which the large extre- mity, directed upwards, corresponds to the point at which the pillars of the velum meet, while the small extremity, which looks downwards, rests upon the base of the tongue. Theu- external surf ace SLAhQxes to the constrictor pharyngis superior muscle. The internal, which is convex and free, projects more or less, and con- stitutes the sides of the isthmus of the fauces. Their anterior edge is applied against the constrictor isthmi faucium muscle, and the posterior against the palato-pharyngeus. 2117. The tonsils seem to be contmuous with the mucous folli- cles of the base of the tongue (2080,1°), and are divided into several lobes, sometimes continuous with and sometimes separated from, each other. They have a grayish colour, more or less tinged with red, and appear formed by a pulpy tissue resembhng that of those follicles. They are filled internally by cellules which manifestly open on their inner surface, where their orifices, which are very large, are distinctly seen. These cellules, which vary much in their form and disposition, are larger above than below. They communicate most commonly with each other, but are also sometimes isolated. The mucous membrane of the mouth introduces itself into them and lines their wall. In their bottom, excretory ducts are observed to open from a mass of follicles, forming the substance of the tonsil externally. 2118. The arteries of the tonsils come from the lingual, inferior, palatine, and internal maxillary arteries. Their nerves are furnish- ed by the Circulus tonsillaris, which is formed by the lingual and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, (1698). The nature of the fluid sepa- rated by these organs is still unknown, although it appears analo- gous to the other mucous humours. The cellules of which we have spoken form reservoirs for it.