OltGANS OF CIIICULATIOM. 704. OF THE SUrEIlIOH. MESENTERIC ARTEIIY. {Art. mesaraica superior). 2529- It arises from the anterior and right side of tlie aorta, very little below the coeliac, which it almost equals in size, but greatly exceeds in length. It immediately ascends a little to the left and forwards, behind the pancreas and before the third portion of the duodenum, and passing behind the left part of the trans- verse mesocolon, goes to the upper extremity of the mesentery, be- tween the two folds of which it enters, directing itself downwards and to the right, and describing a very elongated curve, the con- vexity of which is turned to the left and forwards, and approaches so much nearer the intestine the lower it is examined. Towards the end of the ileum, the superior mesenteric artery, now become very slender, anastomoses with the inferior branch of the inferior right colic artery. 2530. Near its origin, it gives off some very small branches, which go to the duodenum and pancreas, and communicate with twigs of the splenic and hepatic arteries. But, in the mesentery, it furnishes a great many large branches, which may be distin- guished into those which arise from its concavity, and those from its convexity. Branches which the Superior Mesenteric Artery gives oft' from its concavity. RIGHT COLIC ARTERIES. 2531. Superior Right Colic Artery (Art. colica media. It arises from the right and somewhat anterior part of the superior mesenteric artery, when the latter passes the transverse mesocolon. It immediately proceeds from behind forwards, between the two lamina of that replication, and runs horizontally to near the middle part of the arch of the colon. There, it divides into two branches, which separate from each other to right and left, forming a more or less open angle. The right branch runs along the right part of the arch of the colon, and presently anastomoses with a twig of the middle right coHc artery. The left follows the corresponding part of the same intestine, and in the lumbar region inosculates with the ascending branch of the superior left colic artery. 2532. Middle Right Colic Artery {Art. colica dextra). It arises a little beneath the preceding, which sometimes furnishes it, and directs itself obliquely to the right, forwards and a little up- wards in the mesocolon. On arriving near the upper part of the