59 OF THE FACE. times the upper angle of the occipital bone is substituted by one of them ;* they also occasionally occur between the two parietal bones, particularly at the union of their upper and anterior angle, where one is then met with of a quadrilateral form and of large size. The lower and anterior angle of these bones is also sometimes substitut- ed by a wormian bone, which varies in size, and is frequently of an oval form. It is seldom that any are observed in the sutures be- tween the temporal and parietal bones, and still more seldom in the base of the skull; we have, however, mentioned one as in many cases occupying the summit of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (179). 193. In general these bones are of the same thickness as the other bones of the cranium; but it may happen that they are merely formed in their outer or inner table. 194. They vary much as to extent, and are very irregular in their form. In general their two surfaces are smooth ; their cir- cumference is denticulated, for their union with the other bones of the skull, or even with each other. Sometimes, however, they are so small as to rise in scales, and this is particularly the case when they occupy the inner surface of the sutures, as Hunauld has ob- served. Sometimes, on the contrary, they rise above the other bones, and form a prominence which might be taken for an exosto- sis. Their structure and development are similar to those of the other bones of the skull; in other words, they are formed of two tables of compact substance, separated by diploe.j- OF THE FACE. 195. The Face is all that part of the head which is situated at the lower and fore part of the cranium. It is limited above by that cavity, laterally by the zygomatic arches, behind by an empty space, in which is lodged the upper part of the pharynx. Its form IS symmetrical, its vertical section triangular, and its structure very complex. We have already pointed out its principal divisions (44), and mentioned the names of the bones which enter into its composition : these bones are much more numerous than those of the cranium. ♦ This hone has been named the Epactal by some authors. It is only developed afterbirth, and is met witli in one subject out of about fifteen or twenty. t These bones are very numerous in hydrocephalic heads—this is consonant with the observation of Hunauld, who says, that there are many supernumerary bones in tne cranuim when tlie Ijraiii grows faster than usual, and there arc none ut all when Ills viscus grows more slowly.