ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. by means of aponeurotic fibres or small tendons. They arc covered by the integuments, and are separated from the temporal bono by cellular tissue. 891. This muscle, which has no connexion with the epicranial aponeurosis, carries the ear backwards. 892. Whilst dissecting these muscles, the external ear should be drawn downwards^ by means of hooks, for the supevior uuris; backwards, for the anterior auris ; and fm-tvards, for the -poste- Tior auris. MUSCLES OF THE FACE. OJF THE ORBICULARIS PALPEBBAKUM. 893. The Orbicularis palpebrarum surrounds the base of the i Orbit, and occupies the greater part of the upper and lateral region i of the face. It is broad, thin, and circular, and is slit transversely • in the middle for the aperture of the eyeUds. It has three distinct points of origin internally for its fleshy fibres : 1st, at the ascend- , ing process of the upper maxillary bone, and internal orbitar pro- i cess of the frontal; 2dly, at the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove and the neighbouring part of the base of the orbit; 3dly, at the two sides and fore part of a small tendon, about half a line broad, and two lines long, stronger toward its point of attach- ment than the place where it terminates; this tendon proceeds transversely outwards, from the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove, to the internal commissure of the eyelids, where it bifur- cates to be continued with each of the fibro-cartilages, situated in their substance. Posteriorly, this tendon adheres intimately to a thin aponeurosis, which covers the lachrymal sac, and also gives rise to some fleshy fibres, and was formerly called the rejiected tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum. After originating in this manner, the upper and lower fibres of the muscle proceed, in opposite directions, to the upper and under J parts of the base of the orbit, and following its curvature, unite at I the outside of the external commissure of the palpebrje. The mid- I die fibres, which are less distinct, much less curved, and always I very pale, are distributed in the substance of both eyeUds, and I also unite below the outer commissure by a tendinous line, some- H times of considerable size. All these fibres describe concentric i curves, whose centre corresponds to the aperture of the eye- lids, where they are much shorter. Those which are nearest the li circumference are' almost circular; the others describe a sort of > ellipse, and the more central do not even go so far as the commis- sures of the palpebra^ 894. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the skin, to which it is intimately united above, while below it is sepa- rated by fat; and in the place which corresponds to the eyelids,