OF THE PANCREAS. 785 cd by tlie upper lamina of the transverse mesocolon, the stomach, and the first portion of the duodenum. 2886. Its posterior sxtrface presents at its upper part a groove in which are lodged the splenic vessels. It corresponds, moreover, to the superior mesenteric vessels, the aorta, the vena cava, and several nervous and lymphatic plexuses. 2887- Its upper edge is intersected by the course of the cocliac artery, and is directed backwards. The lower edge lies upon the third portion of the duodenum, and is separated from it by the su- perior mesenteric vessels. 2888. Its left e.vtremity, which is very thin, is prolonged be- neath the spleen, to near the corresponding supra-renal capsule, and is often named the Tail of the Pancreas. The right extre- mity, which is also frequently named the Head, is thicker, broad- er, irregularly rounded, immersed in a mass of adipose tissue, and applied against the second portion of the duodenum, over which it commonly advances a little. There almost always occurs be- neath it a small glandular mass, which is named the Small Pan- creas. 2889. The pancreas bears the greatest resemblance to the sali- vary glands in its structure. It is of a grayish white colour, in- clining a little to red ; and its parenchyma, which is firm and te- nacious, appears composed of lobes and granular lobules, which are distinct and connected by a dense cellular tissue. It is from each of these granulations and lobules that the radicles of its excretory ducts arise, which are very slender, and unite in the manner of veins. The duct itself is almost always single. Sometimes, however, there are two or even three. Placed in -the substance of the organ, a little nearer its lower than its uppfer edge, directed from left to right, and progressively increasing in size from the numerous branches which it receives in its course, this canal proceeds in a serpentine manner towards the duodenum, disengages itself from the gland, becomes free behind the second portion of the above- mentioned intestine, and is then of the size of a crow-quill. Near its extremity it receives an excretory duct which comes singly from the little pancreas, and, after a very short passage, it opens at an acute angle, into the ductus communis choledochus, or merely adheres to it to enter the duodenum by itself. The walls of this duct are whitish, and thicker than those of the sub- maxillary ducts, but they are far from being so dense as those of the parotid ducts. 2890. Besides resembling the salivary glands in its tissue, it 1 bears an affinity to these organs in several other points. Like I them, it is placed in the midst of parts of great mobility. It has 1 no distinct outer envelope, being in fact only covered in an indi- I rect manner, and in a portion of its extent only, by the peritone- \ um, which docs not adhere to it, as happens in the case of the 1 liver, the spleen, &c. Like them also, it is penetrated on all sides