STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 42] neath the cerebral protuberance; these bands proceed toward the left side, which in like manner sends some to the right side, but in such a manner that one of them passes most commonly above another, and beneath a third, whence there results an interlace- ment resembling mat-work, and from three to four lines in extent above and beneath which, there occurs a transverse cord, more or less apparent. After they have thus crossed each other, the bands ascend upon the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata (1516), progressively acquiring more volume so as to be broader above than below, and it is this that produces the form of pyramids. The latter are a little contracted at their meeting with the cerebral pro- tuberance, and in their passage frequently send off some fibres which turn round the olivary bodies. 1531. The pyramidal bodies soon penetrate into the cerebral protuberance, and immediately divide into a considerable number of bundles immersed in the cineritious substance, which itself gives rise to new bundles which join the first and reinforce them. They all follow different directions; they are stratified, or interlaced with each other, and with the fibres of the anterior surface of the protuberance (1512). They at length unite, and are seen emerg- ing upon the sides of the upper extremity of this portion of the brain, and forming at the inferior surface of the cerebrum the great- er part of two broad and thick white fibrous cords {Crura cerebri)^ which, from being at first very close to each other, proceed forwards and outwards, diverging and increasing in size. The fibres of these crura are longitudinal, faciculate, very apparent externally and anteriorly ; at their lower surface, they leave between them more or less marked striae, which are filled up with cineritious matter; they are themselves connected together, in the middle, by the white la- mina which forms the floor of the third ventricle. They contain, in their interior, cineritious matter, which has a deeper tint than that of the rest of the brain, and is often blackish ; its consistence is also firmer; its transverse section forms a semilunar spot (locus niger). This substance furnishes them with new fibres in their pas- sage, which continually augment their volume. Their outer edge corresponds to the optic nerve -which turns round them, and is at- tached to them anteriorly by a layer of soft substance. From this place the medullary filaments of the crura of the brain separate from each other and expand ; they form layers of unequal length, whose extremities are covered by cineritious substance, and which constitute the centre of each of the inferior, anterior, and external convolutions of the anterior and middle cerebral lobes. 1532. The olivary bodies send out from their upper part a fibrous bundle, which unites with some other bundles arising from the sides of the spinal marrow, and ascends, like those of the py- ramidal bodies, across the fibres of the anterior surface of the cere- bral protuberance : during this passage it docs not increase in size in so distinct a manner as the preceding bundles, and it fornix