OF THE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 747 Oftlie Veins which unite to form the Vena Cava Inferior. OF THE VEINS WHICH, BY THEIE UNION, FOEM THE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 2728. Popliteal Vein, (Vena poplitea). It commences deeply by three secondary veins, which have precisely the same course as the anterior and posterior tibial and fibular arteries. It is exactly similar to the artery whose name it bears, at the outer part of which it is first situated, and afterwards at its posterior part. It receives, moreover, a subcutaneous vein, which is the following. 2729. External Vena Saphena (Vena saphena externa seu mi- nor). It commences by several roots expanded on the one hand, upon the back of the foot, and upon its outer side, and on the other, embracing the external malleolus, behind which they unite into a single trunk, which ascends obliquely, approaching the tendo AchiUis, and afterwards directs itself vertically, between the inte- guments and the union of the two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, towards the hollow of the ham where it is situated, beside the tibial nerve, and opens into the popliteal vein. 2730. Femoral o'i Crural Vein, {Vena femoralis). This imme- diately succeeds the popliteal vein, and ascends obliquely at the inner and fore part of the thigh, close to the femoral artery, and following precisely the same course up to the crural arch (2608). It is at first placed behind the artery ; but above, it is in contact with its inner side. It receives a great number of deep branches, precisely similar to those of the artery, and a superficial branch, which is the following. 2731. Internal Vena Saphena, (Vena sapJiena interna seu major). Its first radicles occupy the inner edge of the great toe, and form on the back of the foot, near the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, a transverse arch which unites with the external saphena, and whose convexity, which is directed forwards, receives a certain number of twigs from the toes. All these roots united ascend before the malleolus internus, over the-ankle-joint, and form a trunk which is further augmented by many branches from the tarsal and metatarsal regions. This trunk ascends at first vertically, afterwards obliquely backwards, along the inner part of the leg, and passes behind the internal condyle of the femur. It then ascends almost vertically on the inner side of the thigh, before the adductores and gracilis muscles, and receives branches which come from the posterior and superficial part of the thigh. One of these branches is larger than the rest; it commences at the fore part of the leg, or around the inner condyle of the femur, by several roots of considerable size, some of which anastomose with