674 OIIGANS OF ClllCULATlON. OF THE VEUTEBUAL ARTERY. 2389. The Vertebral Artery, {Art. Vertehralis), is the largest branch of the subclavian, almost equalling the axillary artery in size. It is especially destined for the cerebrum, cerebellum and spinal marrow. It arises deeply from the upper and back part of the subclavian, near the place where the latter changes its direction. To the right it forms a very obtuse angle with it, while on the left side it seems to continue it in the same direction. On both sides, immediately after its commencement, the verte- bral artery proceeds directly upwards, behind the inferior thyroid artery, upon the vertebral column, between the longus colli and sca- lenus anticus muscles. At the end of a more or less short course, it enters the hole with which the base of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is perforated, and sometimes that of the fifth, without having given rise to any branch ; in other rarer cases, it enters these holes only at the fourth or third vertebra. It then ascends in the canal which results from the aggregate of all those holes, with which the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrjE are perforated, and which is completed by the inter- transversalcs muscles. In this part of its extent, it passes before the trunks of the cervical nerves. It thus arrives at the axis, hav- ing only described very slight flexuosities ; but it then leaves the canal, directs itself backwards under the trachelo-mastoideus, and forms, between the two first vertebrae, a vertical curve, the con- vexity of which is directed backwards, upwards, and inwards. It then proceeds upwards and outwards as far as the transverse process of the atlas, of which it perforates the base directly up- wards, under the obliquus capitis inferior muscle ; after which, it passes backwards and inwards, and describes, between that verte- bra and the occipital bone, in the triangular space of the recti postici and obliqui capitis muscles, a second transverse curve, ■whose convexity, also directed backwards, is covered by the com- plexus and rectus capitis posticus major muscles, while its con- cavity embraces the side of the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament (584). Lastly, the two vertebral arteries pass through the apertures of the two extremities of the same ligament, and through the dura mater, and enter the cranium by the occipital foramen, on the sides of the spinal marrow. They then converge and ascend in a tor- tuous manner inwards and forwards, between the corpora pyrami- dalia and olivaria (1516) and the basilar groove, on which they unite angularly, to give rise to the basilar artery. 2390. In f./ie canal of the transverse processes, the vertebral artery sends off sevei-al branches in all directions, of which the ex- ternal, anterior, and posterior emerge between these processes, go to the intertransversales, scaleni, rectus capitis anticus major,