THE TEMPORAL BONE. 53 outer extremity of a very narrow fissure which opens into the ca- vity of the tympanum (Scisswa Glaseri) ; through this fissure there pass, the tendon of the external muscle of the malleus, some vessels, and a nerve called Corda Tympani. 173. This fissure, whose direction is inwards and a little down- wards, divides the Glenoid Cavity of the temporal bone into two portions; this cavity is turned downwards, outwards, and forwards, is of an irregularly oval form, and circumscribed externally by the superior root, and anteriorly by the transverse root of the zygoma- tic process, so that it seems to occupy the interval which exists be- tween them. The anterior portion of this cavity is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and is articulated with the condyle of the inferior maxillary bone; its posterior portion, which is less re- gularly limited, and neither so smooth nor so concave, is covered with periosteum, and does not form part of the joint. 174). Behind and to the ovitside of the glenoid cavity, between the two divisions of the upper root of the process, is the orifice of the external auditory canal {meatus auditorius eooternus). This canal seems formed of an osseous plate rolled upon itself, blending above with the rest of the bone, and forming below an unequal rugged edge, more or less prominent, which gives attachment to the carti- lage of the ear. The canal itself has a direction from behind for- wards, and from without inwards, is a little curved downwards, and is narrower in the middle than at either extremity; it opens into the cavity of the tympanum, is lined with a prolongation of the skin, and is about nine or ten lines in extent. Above and behind, it terminates sooner than below and before. In the foetus it was merely an osseous ring, distinct from the rest of the bone, and in- terrupted above. 175. Beyond the meatus auditorius there is observed a conical eminence, named the Mastoid* Process (processus mastoideus). It is much more prominent in old, than in young subjects, is rough, and presents many different appearances.-f It gives attachment to the stcrno-mastoideus, and is surmounted by a rough surface, mto which that muscle is inserted, together with the splcnius and trachelo-mastoideus. It is here that the Foramen Mastoideum commonly occurs, although it varies much in its position, being sometimes met with in the occipital bone, and not unfrequently in the suture by which that bone is joined to the temporal; it gives passage to an artery, and an emissary vein of Santorini; sometimes It is wanting on one side, and occasionally there are three or four m each bone. On the inside of, and behind, the mastoid process, is a longitudinal depression named the Digastric Groove, on account of Its giving attachment to the muscle of that name ; and farther back another groove, less deep, for the trachelo-mastoideus muscle. , • Ma/lif mamma ; il^o;, fnrma. J- J" ■ ^^I'Wfcssuiii mastoideum, modo teretem, modo ciirvum, morlo acumina- uoiem, modoobtiisioruni, modo gibMounn, modo planiorcm, modo mngis liimclla- lum, modo magis srjuamo.stun, modo craSHioro, modo tciiuiorc testa fortuatuu), Sjoeinm. Uc Corp. Hum. Fub. Tom. i. p. IIC. '