180 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and slightly upwards. They correspond anteriorly to a mass of cellular tissue and to the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and posteriorly to the occipito-axoidal ligament. There is observed, moreover, a third ligamentous fasciculus of great firmness, which passes horizontally from one condyle to the other, forming some attachment by its middle to the summit of the odontoid process, and intermingling part of its fibres with the pre- ceding ligaments. 587- Suspensory ligament of the second cervical vertebra,* {Liga- mentum dentis rectum medium). This ligament extends from the anterior margin of the occipital foramen to the odontoid process of the second cervical vertebra, into which it is inserted immediately above its anterior articular surface. This ligament is placed between, and incorporated with, the an- terior occipito-atlantal ligament and superior appendix of the trans- verse ligament of the atlas. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 588. These articulations are very numerous and comphcated,' because the region of the trunk to which they belong is composed of a great number of bones, which touch each other by several points at once. Nevertheless, as these' bones have a great resem- blance to each other, the ligaments which unite them present a si- milar disposition, and may be described together, with the excep- tion of those which connect the axis with the atlas. ARTICULATION OF THE TWO FIRST VERTEBE^E WITH EACH OTHER. 589. This articulation is of the kind named lateral or axoida ginglymus, and is capable of great mobility. It takes pkce by se veral points at once, viz. by the toothlike process of the vertebr dentata with the anterior arch of the atlas, and by the lateral art cular surfaces of these two vertebras, which are horizontal ani much larger than those which succeed. 590. Synovial Membranes of the Odontoid Articulation. The are two in number, the one anterio?', the other posterior. Tl first extends over a concave oval surface, covered with a thin cart lage, situated on the posterior surface of the anterior arch of tl atlas, and a corresponding convex surface, which the odontoid pn cess presents anteriorly : this capsule is very thin, transparent, i little looser above than below, and surrounded with much cellul J tissue. The posterior membrane is equally thin, and envelop«| * Wcitbreclit denied tlic existence of this lignment. I