OKGANS OR CIRCULATION. muscle. It corresponds internally to the aorta. Moreover its size is always less than that of the left. The left is much longer, and approaches the horizontal direc- tion more than the right. It is also covered by the same parH^ and, moreover, by nearly the whole breadth of the sternum, and by the muscles which are attached to it. It covers the scalenus anticus muscle, the left subclavian artery, the left lamina of the mediastinum, the pneumo-gastric nerve, the arch of the aorta, and the arteria innoniinata. It is also always larger than the right. 2713. The left vena innominata receives two veins which the right does not receive. They are named the Left Internal Mam- mary, and the Left Inferior Thyroid. 2714. Left Internal Mammanj Vein. Its roots are seen wherever the corresponding artery sends its twigs, and are col- lected into a single trunk which ascends backwards and out- wards upon the posterior surface of the sterno-costal cartilages, and opens into the left vena innominata, beside the superior intercostal. In its course, this vein is augmented by the superior phrenic, left mediastinal and thymic veins. 2715. Left Inferior Thyroid Vein. Its roots, on leaving the ♦ inferior part of the thyroid body, anastomose with those of the right inferior thyroid vein, and thus form, before the trachea, an arch into which open numerous twigs frequently anastomosing to- gether, and expanded over the thyroid body and in the muscles which cover it. They communicate with the superior thyroid veins, and collectively constitute the Thyroid Venous Plexus. From this plexus comes off the trunk of the vein, which runs at first transversely outwards, then descends obliquely upon the tra- chea, from which it is separated by much fat, upon the pneumo- gastric nerve, and the common carotid artery, and opens inferiorly and posteriorly into the left vena innominata, which consequently covers it inferiorly. 2716. The two venae innominatae also receive the Vertebral and Superior Intercostal veins. 2717- Vertebral Vein {vena vertebralis). It commences in the muscles of the occipital and posterior cervical regions, by a great number of roots which collect into a single trunk towards the occi- pital foramen. This trunk directs itself forwards, above the atlas, penetrates into the foramen which occupies the base of the trans- verse process of that vertebra, and there communicates with the lateral sinus of the dura mater, by a twig lodged in the posterior condyloid foramen. The vertebral vein then descends in the canal which lodges the vertebral artery (2389), communicating by each of the interverte- bral foramina with the vertebral sinus, and receiving opposite each intervertebral space a twig from the muscles of the neck. It issues from its canal at the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra, receives a branch which corresponds to the deep cervical artery