AUTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 'iiffinosd',* imagining the synovia to be secreted by them, in wJiicli ,ie was follow'ed by Winslow, Hallcr, Berlin, Portal, Heyligers, ikc. But most of the modern anatomists have rejected this opi- lion, and among those who have done so we distinguish the names )f Wahher, Bichat, Boyer, Beclard, &c. These do not distin- ruish the bodies in question from cellular tissue, as the most i.-areful dissection discovers no traces in them of the parenchyma .)eculiar to glands, as no vestige of an excretory canal can be per- leived in them, and as they are entirely resolved into cellular tissue voy insufflation, as well as by maceration. The synovial membrane .•brms above each of these alleged glands a mviltitude of floating Tinges, variously cut on their free edges, which are particularly ..veil seen by dissection under water. It was these fringes that Havers considered as the excretory ducts of his glands arranged ilongside of each other; but, properly speaking, they are nothing out folds of the synovial capsule, which contain in their substance .■ellular tissue, fat, and blood-vessels. OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN PARTICULAR. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. ARTICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM WITH EACH OTHER. 572. These articulations admit no kind of motion, and constitute ;ither sutures or harmoniae. We have already described them at ength (281 to 291) ; and have now only to mention a few additional mrticulars regarding them. They are different at the base from what they are at the vault )f the cranium : in the former, the surfiices are in general merely ilaced in juxtaposition, broad, separated by a pretty thick layer of -•artilage, especially between the sphenoid and occipital bones, be- wecn the latter bone and the temporal, &c.; while, in the latter, hey present denticulations which are received by each other, are larrow, and have between them only an extremely thin cartilage, vhosc existence, however, may be proved by long maceration, or boilmg. The circumstance of this cartilage being thinner in- crnally than at the outside of the cranium (560), accounts for the iutures bemg sooner obliterated in old people on the inside, than 50 the outside of the walls of this cavity. * Nuvce Obscrv. dc Ouibus, &c. 12mo. Amst. 1731, p. 209.