239 OF THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. criu-alis, gastrocnemius, &c. In other cases, they form arches for allowing vessels and nerves to pass, at the same time that they give attachment to Heshy fibres, as in the diaphragm. Lastly, they are composed of isolated fibres in the substance of a muscle, as in the masseter and pterygoid. _ . , . , The Enveloping Aponeuroses vary much in their thickness, which is however, in general, so much greater, the larger and more numerous the muscles are which they surround. Their two surfaces are always in contact with cellular tissue ; but the inner frequently sends, between the muscles, fibrous prolonga- tions, which extend to the periosteum of the neighbouring bones. They are of a shining white colour, and might be considered as tendons expanded into membranes, did they not offer a little more resistance to maceration and boiling. Their fibres are also more or less interlaced. The Aponeuroses of hisertion sometimes result from the ex- pansion of a tendon, as in the rectus femoris, or arise immediately from the periosteum, as in the masseter. They may also furnish points of attachment by their two surfaces, or by one of them only, and afford the very great advantage of multiplying them much withovit any loss of surface. Those which are arched, serve to pre- vent the vessels from suffering compression during the contraction of the muscle. OF THE FIBROUS SHEATHS. 797- The Fibrous Sheaths are a kind of envelopes, destined to •keep down the tendons at their passage over the bones, in the places where they are reflected, and to prevent them from expe- riencing any other deviation, than that caused by the contraction of the muscles to which they belong. Some of these sheaths, as those of the wrists, contain the united tendons of several muscles ; others, as those of the fingers, are intended for a single tendon, or for two only. Of these latter, some are of considerable length, while others merely form a kind of ring. They all, in general, present the form of a hollow semi-cylinder, which is completed by the bone to which they are attached; and thus form a sort of canal. This canal is Uned by a synovial membrane. They are confounded at their edges with the periosteum ; are very strong, and their tissue, very dense and close. The fibrous sheaths which envelope several tendons together, bear the name of Annidar Ligaments. Some of them, as at the fore part of the wrist, leave all the tendons in contact with each other; those of the posteriin- part of the wrist, on the contrary, send between them small fibrous partitions which serve to isolate them.