MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 3G9 lifuptor magnus and vastus cxternus muscles. Its upper ed(p:, 'Inch is very thin, is connected with the glutiuus medius by a pro- ongation of the foscia lata. The loiver edge is the longest of all, ^nd free of adhesions. The outer is united in its whole extent . 0 the fascia lata. 1362. Synovial Bursa. It is very thin, oval, always well sup- hlied with synovia, and very frequently furnished with replications 11 its interior. It is expanded upon the outer surface of the tro- ihanter, the neighbouring portion of the vastus externus, and the inner surface of the tendon of the glutasus maximus, the motion of Irhich it facilitates. 1363. The glutJBUs maximus extends the thigh vipon the pelvis. Mid the pelvis upon the thigh. It rotates the thigh outwards, and cots very powerfully in standing and progression. OF THE GLUT/EUS MEDIUS. 1364. The Glutceus medius is a broad, strong, radiated, trian- ijular muscle, much thinner than the preceding, under which it is :iartly situated. It arises by short aponeurotic fibres from the luuter surface of the os innominatum, between the two curved lines, rrora a kind of aponeurotic arch which prevails along the inferior uurved line, from the three anterior fourths of the iliac crest, and TTom the inner surface of the portion of the fascia lata which de- scends from the superior and anterior iliac spine. Proceeding from ■'these different points, the fleshy fibres descend converging, and fol- lowing different directions, the anterior, which are short, obliquely backwards, the middle, which are longer, vertically, and the poste- rior, which are still longer, obliquely forwards. They terminate upon the two surfaces of a broad aponeurosis, which is concealed for some time in their substance, and is longer posteriorly than anteriorly. This aponeurosis contracts and becomes thicker as it descends; it -is left by the fleshy fibres towards the great trochanter, where it is converted into a tendon thinner before than behind, which is in- serted into the whole upper edge of that eminence, prolonging it- self a little upon its fore and outer part, and uniting with the glu- tasus minimus. 1365. Its outer surface, which inclines a little backwards, is co- vered in its posterior half by the glutJEUs maximus, and in its ante- rior by the fascia lata. The inner surface is applied upon the OS mnominatum, the glutaeus minimus and pyriformis muscles, and the gluteal artery. Its anterior edge is connected above with the tensor vaginas femoris, from which it is separated below by an interval, in which there occur a great quantity of cellular tissue and tranches of the external circumflex artery. The posterior edge is, at Its upper part, parallel to the pyriformis muscle, whose direction It crosses below. The two tendons are here separated by a syno-