ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 642 ricles are much thinner than those of the ventricles, which evident- ly depends upon the smaller quantity of muscular fibres which en- ter into their formation. In the Right Auricle, the muscular tissue constitutes a pretty thick layer of longitudinal fibres towards the point of union of the two vena; cavoc, where it is separated from the serous lamina of the pericardium by a considerable quantity of fat. In the rest of the auricle, this tissue only presents itself in the form of thin bundles crossing each other, in the intervals of which the serous lamina of the pericardium is in immediate contact with the inner membrane of the cavity. These bundles, although smaller, are more numerous in the appendage. One of them sur- rounds the orifice of the vena cava superior in a circular manner. The disposition which we have just pointed out causes a part of the right auricle to appear transparent. In the Left Auricle, the fleshy layer is much thicker and more uniform than in the right. Here the muscular fibres seem to come from the pulmonary veins, on which they begin to appear by pa- rallel bundles when these vessels issue from the lungs. On the auricle itself, they retain their original direction at the surface, and form a transverse plane; but more deeply, they cross each other irregularly, without however being disposed in isolated bundles as in the right auricle. Between the two auricles, the muscular tissue forms a thicker and more uniform layer, from which results the inter-auricular sep- tum. 2270. Muscular Tissue of the Ventricles. The walls of the right ventricle are rather thin. A uniform fleshy layer invests it externally. More deeply, the muscular tissue collects into bundles disposed like those of the auricles, but stronger and more numer- ous ; several of these, detached from the walls of the cavity, give rise to the columnge carneae. The Left Ventricle has much thicker walls than the right. Its superficial fibres seem directed longitudinally from the base to the summit. The middle fibres are intermingled in an inextricable manner. The deeper contribute to the formation of the columnas carneae. In the septum, the muscular fibres of the right ventricle are in- terlaced with those of the left, forming very acute angles. They may be separated, however, so as to divide the heart into two por- tions, the one right and the other left. 2271. The muscular fibres of the heart are extremely numerous and very close upon dach other. Their red colour is less florid and darker than that of the muscles of locomotion. Their direction is very difficult to be determined: they intermingle with each other, without any cellular tissue being interposed, as happens in the other muscles, to form distinct bundles. Their origin also cannot be determined ; they rise at different points of the surface of the organ, without passing over its whole extent. They are fleshy in