741 OF TtlE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. arises in the thyroid body by a multitude of roots which anasto- mose upon the upper edge of that organ with those of the oppo- site side, and which unite into a single trunk which passes between the sterno-thyroidei and sterno-hyoidei muscles, frequently receive the ranine and lingual veins, and always the laryngeal vein, which comes from the interior of the larynx, divides into two branches, and thus opens into the jugular vein by two different points. 2704. Occipital Vein. (Vena occipitalis). Its roots exactly follow the course of the twigs of the occipital artery (2322), and unite into a single trunk, which passes under the splenius muscle to open into the internal jugular vein, or into the external, but more rarely into the latter. 2705. Veins of the Diploe. They are situated in the substance of the diploe of the bones of the skull, and lodged in particular canals. They commence by very delicate and numerous radicles, which form a kind of net-work upon the soft membrane, lining the areolae of the diploe. By their successive union, these original radicles form branches becoming larger and larger, in the inte- rior of which are observed small valves, and which direct them- selves towards the base of the skull. The number and size of these principal branches vary much; but in general one or two arc found in the substance of the frontal bone, which discharge themselves into the frontal vein, two in the substance of the pa- rietal bone, which open into the lateral sinuses of the dura mater and into the deep temporal veins, and one in the occipital bone, which opens into the occipital vein. From this arrangement, it is easy to judge that these vessels contribute to the formation of the internal jugidar vein. Moreover, it is to be remarked that the veins of the diploe have numerous anastomoses with each other, and that they communi- cate, internally and externally of the skull, by a multitude of emis- sary twigs, with the venous trunks which creep upon that part, or with the sinuses formed in the dura mater. 2706. After receiving all the branches mentioned above, the in- ternal jugular vein forms a large trunk, which descends vertically along the anterior and lateral part of the neck, behind the omo- hyoideus and sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscles and the cervical branch of the hypoglossal nerve, before the rectus captis anticus major, the vertebral column, the commencement of the subclavian artery and the scalenus anticus muscle, and externally of the com- mon carotid artery and pncumo-gastric nerve. This vein joins the subclavian to form the I'tena innom'tnata, and presents on the right side the same direction as the vena cava superior, while on the left it forms a right angle with the subclavian. 2707. In this latter course, the internal jugular vein receives only a few cutaneous veins, and some branches which issue from the thyroid body under the name of Middle Thyroid Veins {venca thyroidece medics.