60 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 01" THE BONES WHICH COMPOSE THE UPPER JAW- OF THE SBPKIIIOK MAXILLARY BONE. 196. The Superior Matvillary Bones {mawillcB mperiores) are to the face, what the sphenoid bone is to the cranium, for they ar- ticulate with all the pieces of which it is composed; they are those which principally determine its figure, and insure its solidity. These bones, which are large, and of a very irregular form, occupy the middle and anterior part of the upper jaw, enter into the com- position of the orbit, nasal fossjc, and mouth, give passage to va- rious nerves and vessels, and aflbrd insertion to numerous muscles. We shall distinguish in these bones two aspects, and a circumfer- ence. 197- Outer or Orhito-facial Aspect. The whole of this aspect may be seen, without separating the bone from those in its vicinity. It is surmounted internally by a flat oblong process, called nasal {processus nasalis) which is smooth and concave from above down- wards externally, where it presents several vascular apertures, and gives attachment to the levator labii superioris and the levator la- bii superioris alajque nasi. This process, which forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fosscE, presents, internally, at its upper part, irregularities which are connected with the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, below which is a channel belonffins to the middle meatus of the nostrils, and farther down, a horizontal crest, unit- ed to the inferior turbinated bone, also some arterial furrows. The nasal process terminates above in a truncated summit, furnished with denticulations, to be articulated to the nasal notch of the frontal bone; anteriorly, in a thin oblique edge, which rests upon the nasal bones; behind, in a groove which is broader and deeper below than above ; the posterior edge of which is articulated with the lachrymal bone, and the anterior, which is free, and continu- ous with the lower margin of the orbit, gives attachment to the tendon and some fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle : this channel forms part of the lachrymal groove. 198. On the outer and back part of the nasal process is a smooth triangular surface (fades orbitalis) inclined downwards, forwards, and outwards, forming part of the floor of the orbit. About its middle and back part, it presents a channel which soori' changes into a canal, named the infra-orbitar, which lodges the ves- eels and nerves of the same name ; this canal, as it proceeds forwards and inwards, divides into two subordinate ones; the posterior of which is the smaller, and descends, under the name of the superior and anterior dentar canal, in the anterior wall of the maxillary sinus, where it sometimes opens; it affords a passage to nerves and vessels which bear the same name. The other, or anterior