ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 350 OF THE PSOAS PARVUS. 1287- The Smaller Psoas does not always exist. It is situated to the outer and fore side of the psoas magnus, over which it is ap- pUed, and is flat, thin, and narrow. Its upper extremity is attach- •ed by short aponeuroses, to the lower part of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and to the fibro-cartilage which separates it from the first lumbar vertebra, and it sometimes sends a small tendon to the transverse process of the twelfth vertebra of the back. The fleshy fibres, which do not form more than the upper third of the length of the muscle, cease opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, after forming a bundle which is directed outwards and downwards, and are replaced by a flat tendon which becomes broader as it de- scends, and which turns over the psoas magnus, passing to its inner part. This tendon, which occupies of itself two-thirds of the ex- tent of the muscle, terminates at the ilio-pectineal eminence (398), and the neighbouring part of the body of the pubes, sending to the iliac fascia a broad and thin membraneous prolongation, which covers the iliacus and psoas magnus. 1288. The anterior surface of the psoas parvus is covered above by the diaphragm, afterwards by the renal vessels and nerves, and by the peritoneum, and below by the external iliac artery. The posterior surface is united in its whole extent to the psoas magnus by cellular tissue. 1289- When the two smaller psoae act simultaneously, they bend the vertebral column on the pelvis, or the latter upon the vertebral <;olumn. If only one of them contract, the same motion takes place, but obliquely. In standing, they prevent the trunk from falling backwards. OF THK PSOAS MAGNUS. 1290. The Psoas magnus is situated on the side of the vertebral column at its lower part, and along the upper strait of the pelvis, extending to the upper and fore part of the thigh ; it is larger than the preceding, and is never wanting. It is of an elongated form, and thicker in the middle than at the extremities; it is rounded at its middle part, but at its upper is thin and flat, and tendinous at the lower. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the lateral and inferior part of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, from a small portion of the posterior extremity of the twelfth rib, from the side of the bodies of the four first lumbar vertebrae, from the fibro-cartilages which se- parate them, and from the base of the corresponding transverse processes. Between the latter insertion and the others^ there is a space in which are lodged the branches of nerves, which concur to form the lumbo-abdominal plexus. The fleshy body forms at its