ORGANS OF SENSATIOxV. 520 ponds to tlie abductor oculi muscle ; the inner is concave and ap- plied upon the optic nerve. Its colour is reddisli, sometimes white; its volume dillers much according to the individual; lastly, it is immersed in a mass of soft, and as it were half-Huid fat. Its jms- ferior and superior angle communicates with the nasal nerve of the ophthalmic (1G52) ; the posterior and inferior with a lilament of the inferior branch of the nerve of the third pair (1637). Its two anterior angles also furnish each a bundle of small nerves, the one superior, the other inferior. I'hcse are the 1862. Ciliary A^erves (Nervi ciliares.) They are very slen- der, soft, flexuous, reddish, and constantly accompanied by one, two, or three hlaments from the nasal nerve, (1652) which have exactly the same distribution. The zipper bundle, which is smaller, is at first divided into three nerves, which bifurcate as they advance, so as to jjroduce six, which proceed parallel to each other, immediately above the optic nerve, which they accompany as far as the ball of the eye. ■ The lower bundle^ which is situated on the outside and beneath the optic nerve, and at a little distance from it, contains six, eight or ten nerves, or even a greater number, which are united into six small branches at their origin. Tliey wind round the optic nerve; some of them even pass beneath it to gain its inner side; another separates from the bundle, proceeds outwards, frequently anas- tomoses with one of the filaments of the nasal nerve, and gains the sclerotic membrane by itself under the rectus externus oculi muscle. 1863. These nerves, which are in all from twelve to sixteen, on arriving at the posterior part of the ball of the eye, pass sepa- rately and obliquely through the sclerotic membrane, at a greater or less distance from the optic nerve. They are previously inter- laced with the ciliary arteries, but do not anastomose with each other or form a plexus. On entering the eye, they become a little flattened, advance forwards between the sclerotic and choroid mem- branes, but without giving off filaments to either, and are lodged in narrow grooves formed upon the inner surface of the sclerotica. They are then parallel to each other, and frequently send off com- municating filaments. 1864. They thus arrive at the ciliary circle, subdivide each in- to two, sometimes into three filaments, which enter into that circle, and seem to lose themselves there. Some of these filaments, ar- riving at the fore part of the eye, perforate the choroid membrane, penetrate into the ciliary processes, bend backwards, and lose themselves in the place where the retina joins the ciliary circle. On the other hand, the ciliary circle sends to the iris a multitude of other filaments which do not appear to be continuations of the first, an arrangement which has induced several anatomists to con- sider the ciUary circle as a true ganglion ; and it cannot be denied that its colour and texture give additional Aveight to this, opinion.