218 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. per part of the notch, is incorporated with the same ligament, and also with the obturator ligament. 711. Synovial Membrane. From being at first expanded over the cartilage of the head of the femur, it is continued over a part of the neck of that bone, where it invests a sort of dense, thick membrane with longitudinal and separated fi^bres, which constitutes the periosteum of the neck. At the base of this neck, it is reflect- ed over the capsular ligament, which it lines in its whole extent. Arrived at the circumference of the cotyloid cavity, it passes over the two surfaces of its fibro-cartilaginous rim, enters into its inte- rior, covers the reddish cellular tissue which occupies its bottom, adheres strongly to it, and lastly, is reflected along the round liga- ment to the cartilage of the head of the femvir. 712. Beneath this synovial membrane, in the back part of the bottom of the cotyloid cavity, is a flattened mass of reddish cellu- lar tissue, mingled with a soft and unctuous substance, forming the largest of the organs that have been described under the name of Synovial glands. It receives a great number of arterial ramifica- tions, which arise from a small branch of the obturator artery which enters the cavity by its inferior notch; some of these ramifica- tions lose themselves on the membranous sheath of the inter-ar- ticular ligament. There issue from it a great number of venous ramifications, which also make their escape through the notch of the cavity, forming a trunk which enters the obturator vein. These vessels are accompanied by a nervous filament of the same name, and are surrounded by a layer of more or less adipose cellular tis- sue, losing itself on the edge of the mass itself, which is surmount- ed by very large fringes. 713. The whole circumference of the head of the femur, is more- over surrounded with numerous small grains, of the same nature as those which we have already pointed out in several of the articula- tions. There is one very large grain of this kind, which raises the synovial membrane close to the insertion of the inter-articular li- gament, at the centre of the head of the femur. 714. The capsular hgament is traversed by a great number of blood-vessels ; many nervovis filaments also creep on its surface. The latter arise from the obturator nerve by a branch which sepa- rates from it as it passes through the obturator hole, and which divides into five or six twigs at the upper and inner part of the jcapsule. Another branch, arising from the same trunk, directs it- self more downwards following the same direction; it separates upon the capsiUe into eight or ten filaments, some of which pass through the notch to be distributed to its inner surface, while the other proceeds nearly as far as the small trochanter. KNEE JOINT. 715. This articulation is the most complex in the body. It is an angular ginglymus, into the formation of which there enter, the