743 OF THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. in this course a great number of subcutaneous secondary veins, passes behmd the inner condyle, and unites with the anterior ulnar vein. The Anterior Ulnar Vein, commences in the inferior region of the internal and anterior part of the fore-arm, and ascends before the inner condyle. It communicates with the preceding by a great number of anastomosing twigs. Thus formed by these different branches, the basilic vein, after receiving the median basilic, ascends along the inner part of the arm before the ulnar nerve, receiving but a small number of twigs, and anastomosing pretty frequently with the cephalic vein. It then throws itself deeply into the axilla, and is manifestly continuous with the axillary vein. The Median vein (vena mediana) comes from a great number of roots expanded over the whole anterior surface of the fore-arm, and is joined by a deep vein which is formed of detached twigs of the deep radial and ulnar veins. About the bend of the elbow the median vein divides into the median cephalic and me- dian basilic veins, the former of which ascends outwards to join the cephalic vein, and the latter ascends obliquely inwards along the tendon of the biceps, and unites with the basilic vein. 2711. Axillary Vein (vena axillaris). This vein is, there? fore, the result of the union of all those which we have exa- mined in the hand, fore-arm, and arm, whether deep or su- perficial. It ascends obliquely inwards under the clavicle, al- ways situated before the axillary artery, from the tendon of the pectoralis major to the inferior extremity of the scalenus anticus muscle. In this course, it receives the Circumjlex Veins, the Sub-Sca- pular, Long Thoracic, Superior Thoracic, and Acromial Vehis, which correspond to the branches furnished by the axillary artery. , 2712. To the axillary vein succeeds the Subclavian Vein (vena subclavia) which extends from the inferior extremity of the sca- lenus anticus muscle, before which it passes, to the vena inno- minata, which it forms by its union with the internal jugular. Both vencB innominatce proceed at first transversely inwards, and then bend downwards to enter the thorax. But they present differences according as they are examined on the right or on the left side, on account of the position of the vena cava su- perior. Thus the right vena innominata is very short, and approaches the vertical direction more in the second part of its course. It is covered by the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, the sterno-clavi- cular articulation, the cartilage of tlie first rib, and a small por- tion of the sternum. It is applied externally and posteriorly against the right lamina of the mediastinum, the pncumo-gastric nerve, tiic right sub-clavian artery, and the scalenus anticus