ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 308 neurotic lamina? which separate it from the teres major and infra- spinatus. From thence, it ascends obhqucly outwards, in com- pany with the infra-spinatus, to which it is often united. Its fleshy fibres terminate, near the humerus, on the anterior surface of a Hat tendon which commences by aponeuroses on the posterior surface of the muscle, and is inserted into the inferior surface of the great tuberosity, where it is united with the capsule of the joint. Some of the lower fibres are directly attached to the humerus, beneath the great tuberosity. 1121. Its posterior side is covered by the deltoid muscle and the skin. The anterior covers the dorsal scapular artery, the long portion of the triceps, the fibrous capsule of the joint, and a smaU portion of the scapula. The upper side is broader internally than externally ; it is connected, in the former direction witli the infra- spinatus muscle. The lower is connected internally with the teres major, from which it is afterwards separated by the long portion of the triceps. 1122. The teres minor has the same uses as the infra-spinatus. OF THK TERES MA,IOR. 1123. The Teres Major is a long flat muscle, broader than the preceding, beneath which it is situated. It arises by short aponeu- rotic fibres, from a quadrilateral surface which terminates the fossa infra-spinata inferiorly, and from fibrous partitions that are met with between it and the subscapularis on the one hand, and the infra-spinatus and teres minor on the other. From thence its fleshy fibres, which are all parallel, proceed obliquely outwards running along the teres minor; then twisting upon themselves, se- parate from that muscle, and give rise to a broad and flat tendon, more distinct below than above, and before than behind. This tendon, which is abovit an inch broad, follows the direction of the muscle, is applied by its anterior surface upon that of the latissi- mus dorsi, (805), unites with it, and is attached to the ^posterior edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, in the manner Vijiich we liave already described. 1124. Its posterior surface is covered internally by the latissi- mus dorsi, and in the middle by the skin. Externally, it corres- ponds to the humerus and the long portion of the triceps. The anterior surface is in connexion with the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and with the axillary vessels and brachial plexus. Its lower edge, which is covered by the integuments, forms with the latissimus dorsi the posterior edge of the hollow of the axilla. The upper edge, which is united to the teres minor internally, but separated from it in the middle by the long portion of the triceps, corresponds externally with the sub- scapularis muscle, and the circumflex vessels and nerve. 1125. This muscle rotates the humerus inwards. When its ac-