OF THE BONES OF THE CARPUS. 133 OF THE BONES OF THE CARPUS.* (Ossa Carpi). The carpal bones are eight in number, and form two rows. FIRST ROW. OF THE SCAPHOID BONE. 461. The Scaphoid Bonef (os Scaphoides, os NaviculareJ, is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, and is the larg- est of those that occur in the first row. It is elongated, convex on the side next the fore-arm, concave in the other direction, and in- chned downwards and outwards. Its upper surface, which is tri- angular, smooth, and cartilaginous, is articulated to the radius. The inferior surface, which is directed a Uttle outwards and backwards, is also triangular and smooth, convex, and covered with cartilage, and is articulated to the trapezium and trapezoides. The posterior surface, which is very narrow, is marked in its whole length by a groove into which Hgam exits are inserted. The anterior, which is also narrow, is concave at the upper and outer part, and presents a pretty distinct eminence for the insertion of ligaments. The outer surface is narrow and tubercular, and receives the insertion of the external lateral ligament of the radio-carpal articulation. The in- ner presents two concave and cartilaginous spaces; the upper, which is narrower, is articulated to the semilunar bone ; the lower, which is broader, is inclined downwards, forwards, and inwards, and is vmited to the head of the os magnum. OF THE SEMILUNAR BONE.]: 462. The Semilunar Bone (os Lunatum), is smaller and less elongated than the scaphoid. Its upper surface is convex and smooth, and is articulated to the radius. The lower, which is of greater extent from behind forwards than in the transverse direc- tion, presents a concave space, which is connected with the head of the OS magnum, and with the os unciforme; this articulating surface is sometimes double. The a-nterior and posterior surfaces, which are uneven and rough, give attachment to ligaments ; the former of these is the larger. The outer surface, which is a little concave, smooth, covered with cartilage, slightly inclined upwards, * K«j3-«f of the Greeks. t 'S.Kuif),, navicula ; iXf, ftgtim. t So named because tlie surface by wliicli it is articulated to tlic scaphoid bone is or the form of a crescent.