ORGANS OF CIllCULATION. 722 2C09. Its anterior side corresponds to the crural aponeurosis, the integuments, and to the inguinal lymphatic gangha, in a tri- angular space which is formed above by the crural arch, externally by the sartorius muscle, internally by the adductor longus and graci- lis, that is to say, in an extent of about four inches. It is separated from all these parts by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue. Farther down, it is covered by the sartorius muscle which crosses its direction. 2610. Its posterior side rests at its uppermost part, upon the body of the pubes, from which it is separated by the pectineus njuscle, then upon that muscle itself, and upon the small and mid- dle adductors, which are separated from it by a thick layer of fat. 2011. Its outer side corresponds at first to the crural nerve, then to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles, which separates it from the hip joint. It is then in rather distant rela- tion with the sartorius muscle; and lastly, below, is immediately applied upon the vastus internus, which separates it from the body of the femur. 2612. Its internal side is in contact superiorly with the femoral vein, then with the pectineus muscle, and it is at length placed be- tween the adductor longus and sartorius. The latter covers it at the lower part of the thigh. 2613. The branches of the femoral artery are distinguished into internal, external, anterior, and posterior. Internal Branches of the Femoral Artery. 2614. Of the External Pudic Arteries (Arteries pudendce ex- ternce). They are two in number, and may be distinguished into superficial or s^uhcutaneous, and deep or suh-aponeurotic. 2615. The Superficial arises from the femoral artery, at a very small distance from the crural arch. It proceeds transversely in- wards between the skin and the crural aponeurosis, directs itself towards the parts of generation, and, before arriving there, divides into two twigs, the one superior, the other inferior. The superior ascends towards the pubes, and loses itself in the skin of the lower part of the abdomen, communicating with the epigastric and su- perficial epigastric arteries. The inferior is distributed to the scrotum and skin of the penis in the male, where it extends as far as the prepuce ; and to the corresponding labium pudendi in the female. 2616. The second external pudic artery arises a little lower from the femoral or profunda femoris. It descends at first ob- liquely, and then runs transversely inwards under the crural aponeu- rosis, which it perforates, to gain the scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. It anastomoses with the inferior twig of the preceding. Pretty frequently it is crossed anteriorly by the inter- nal saphcna vein.