189 AKTJCULATIONS OF THIi TllUNK. nhich entirely covers the sternum, and which is much more appa- rent at its lower part than above: in some subjects, it even forms at the lower part a kind of triangular plane, separate and distinct. Tlie anterior ligament is covered anteriorly by the pectoralis major. 608. Posterior Ligament. It is not so thick as the preceding, and its fibres are not so apparent, although their disposition is ab- solutely the same. By their mutual interlacing, they form on the mediastinal surface of the sternum, a membrane (membrana sterni posterior), as thick as that formed by the anterior ligaments, but smooth, polished, without distinct fibrous fasciculi, unless it be merely a few which extend over its whole length, which would seem to indicate that it does not entirely originate from the poste- rior ligaments. It is traversed by a considerable number of small blood-vessels. 609. Ligament of the Ensiform Cartilage, or Costo-wiphoid Ligament (Ligamentum cartilaginis ensiformis). Besides hav- ing the same ligaments as those of the other cartilages of the true ribs, the cartilage of the seventh is connected with the ensiform cartilage by a particular ligament, whose dimensions vary much in different subjects. This ligament generally presents itself in the form of a small elongated and very thin fasciculus, which, arising from the lower edge of the cartilage, descends obliquely inwards, and expands over the anterior surface of the sternal appendage, uniting with that of the opposite side. It is covered by the rectus abdominis. ARTICULATIONS OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE FALSE RIBS WITH EACH OTHER. 610. We have already pointed out (94) the manner in which the sixth, seventh, and eighth sterno-costal cartilages meet each other by their contiguous edges, by means of small oblong surfaces. These articular surfaces vary much as to form and extent, and are also frequently observed between the eighth and ninth cartilages. Each of these articulations is furnished with a small synovial bursa, inuch looser and more apparent than that which exists at the junc- tion of the preceding cartilages with the sternum ; each is also strengthened anteriorly and posteriorly by oblique and irregular fibres, which proceed from one cartilage to the other, much more distinct in the former than in the latter direction, and are confounded with the perichondrium. Moreover, the inner extre- mities of the first three or four abdominal ribs are connected by a kind of small ligamentous cord, with the lower edge of the next cartilage above. The corresponding extremity of the cartilages of the two last ribs in general, and of the last rib always, are con- nected solely with the abdominal muscles.* nf hJ^^m ""'f ^''♦''*="''"y of f''" Rtenio-costal cartilages is intimiitoly iinitcH lo tliaf nnt ZS^ '\ ''K'""''"' »"y '^i"<l to keep these suilaeef,, wliidi do IOC aamit of any motion, in eomicxion (95).