ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 708 Their size is very inconsiderable, and they come off from the late- ral parts of the aorta a little above the renal arteries. Sometimes they are produced by the cocliac trunk. Directed transversely over the sides of the vertebral column, they gain the anterior edge of the capsules, and divide into several branches which spread out upon the two surfaces of these organs, and ramify in their substance. Before arriving at the supra-renal capsules, they frequently send several small twigs to the crura of the diaphragm, and to the mass of adipose celkdar tissue which envelopes the kidneys. The left, moreover, gives some twigs to the colon and spleen; the right to the duodenum and liver. OF THE RENAL OR EMULGENT ARTERIES. {Art. Renales s. Emulgentes.) 2547. Of large size, and very short, and generally two in num- ber, one on each side, they come oft' below the capsular arteries and the superior mesenteric, forming with the aorta an angle ap- proaching more or less to a right one. The left is commonly a little more anterior and higher than the right. Immersed in a very abundant adipose cellular tissue, directed transversely over the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, covered by the renal vein and peritoneum on both sides, and, on the right only, by the vena cava inferior, they arrive, after a rathor short course, at the fissure of the kidneys, where they divide each into two, three, or four large branches. 2548. Before arriving at the kidney, they give off* only some slender twigs, which ascend towards the supra-renal capsvdes, or lose themselves, under the name of Adipose Arteries, in the sur- rounding fat. They also, however, frequently furnish the sper- matic arteries. 2549- The three or four branches which terminate each renal artery separate from each other, and enter the kidney, between the pelvis, which is behind and below, and the roots of the renal vein, which are before. They presently divide into a considerable number of twigs which pass between the walls of the pelvis and parenchyma of the kidney, and subdivide around the calyces into a number of small twigs. These pass round each of the bun- dles of tvibes which are to form one of the mammillae of the kidney, and anastomose with each other so as to constitute a distinct arch, the convexity of which is turned towards the cor- tical substance, which receives a great number of ramifications from it. 2550. In some subjects there are three or four renal arte- ries on each side; but this arrangement is not of frequent oc- currence.