347 MUSCLES OF THE CHEST. interlaced with those of the transversalis abdominis. The first of these digitations is attached to the outer half of the posterior sur- face, and of the upper edge of the cartilage of the seventh rib; the second, which is the longest of all, is inserted into the corres- ponding parts of the eighth rib; the other four, which become gradually shorter, are moreover slightly attached to the bony por- tion of the four last ribs. Of these lateral fibres, the posterior, which are the shortest, terminate in an aponeurotic bundle, extended between the extremity of the last rib and the base of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. It has been named the Ligamentum arcuatum Diaphragmatis, and is nothing else than the upper edge of the anterior lamina of the aponeurosis of the transversaUs abdominis, which shghtly covers the quadratus lumborum and the last inter- costal nerve. Lastly, in the two last intercostal spaces, the diaphragm is con- tinued by common aponeurotic fibres, into the transversalis abdo- minis. 1279- The posterior fibres, proceeding from the posterior notch of the aponeurosis (1273), are directed in small numbers to a sort of aponeurotic arch, extended from the base of the transverse pro- cess of the first lumbar vertebra to the body of the second, under which the upper part of the psoas muscle passes. But they vinite for the most part into two thick bundles, which are named the Pillars or Crura of the Diaphragm. Of these crura the right is longer, broader, and thicker, and situated nearer the middle hne of the vertebral column; it is attached to the bodies of the four first lumbar vertebrae, by as many tendinous digitations. The left, which is narrower, shorter, more slender, and situated more to the side, is only attached to the bodies of the three first lumbar vertebrfE. These two crura leave at first between them a con- siderable separation, which constitutes a narrow, oblong aperture, a httle broader before, situated toward the middle of the vertebral column, all fleshy in its circumference, through which the cesopha- gus and pneumo-gastric nerves pass from the thorax to the abdo- men. Immediately after, there is detached from each of them a fleshy bundle, which is interlaced with that of the opposite side ; the anterior bundle, which descends from the left crus to the right, IS the larger. These two bundles complete the lower part of the oesophageal aperture, and form the upper part of another open- ing of a parabolic form, situated between the two crura, which gives passage to the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct. This aperture, which is situated more posteriorly and more to the left than the preceding, is further distinguished from it by having its njargin aponeurotic and continuous with the tendons of the crura. On Its sides and behind, are spaces left between the fleshy fibres, tor the passage of the splanchnic nerves. 12»0. "Ihe upper or thoracic surface of the diaphragm is convex and mchncd backwards. Its middle part is strongly connected