MUSCLES OF THE INFEIlIOIl EXTREMITIES. 365 OF THE VASTUS EXTERNU8. ( Venter enternus mmculi quadricipitisfemoris.) 1338. This muscle is thicker above than below, and attached to the base and fore part of the great trochanter, as well as to the outer hp of the linea aspera, and, together with the glutaeus maxi- mus, to the ridge by which it is connected with the great trochan- ter, by a broad aponeurosis, expanded over its outer surface to near the middle of the thigh, thick and dense at its upper part, thin and with separated fibres below. The fleshy fibres of the muscle arise from the inner surface of this aponeurosis, and another aponeurotic lamina placed between it and the short portion of the biceps, and from the outer surface of the femur. They are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and longer above than below, where they become nearly transverse. The last fibres even, take their origin from the two upper thirds of the line which descends to the outer condyle of the femur. They form together a mass, broader and thicker at its middle part than at the extremities, which is at first separated from the cruralis by a thin layer of cellular tissue, but which is presently so confounded with it, as to be no longer se- parable. OF THE VASTUS INTERNUS. 1339- The Vastus internus. (Venter internus m. guadricipitis femoris,) is not always very distinct from the following muscle, and is much smaller than the preceding; it appears more bulky below than above. It is attached to the anterior and inferior part of the base of the small trochanter, and to the inner lip of the linea aspera, by a less broad, and less thick aponeurosis than that of the vastus externus, and which also descends to the middle of the thigh. The fleshy fibres come fi-om the inner surface and anterior edge of this aponevirosis, as well as from the inner surface of the femur, and from the two upper thirds of the ridge which descends to the inner condyle. They are directed obliquely downwards, forwards, and outwards ; the upper are longer than the lower; which latter are confounded along the linea aspera with the adductor muscles, and united to them by an aponeurosis traversed by vessels. OF THE CRUEAIiTS. 1340. The Cruralis, (Venter posterior m. quadricipitisfemoris,) arises from the fore part of the base of the neck of the femur, along the oblique ridge which proceeds from the great to the small tro- fchanter, and from the three upper fourths of the anterior surface of the body of the femur. Its fleshy fibres form a mass which de- scends, increasing in size, and which, at first isolated, soon becomes