PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ]53 OF THE METATARSAL BONES.* (Ossa Metatarsi). OF THE FIRST METATARSAL BONE. 527. The First Metatarsal Bone (os metatarsi pollicis pedis), is shorter but thicker thcin the others, to the inside of which it is situated. Its Body, whicli is prismatic and triangular, presents an tipper surface, which is convex and inchned inwards ; an inferior surface, concave, broader at its extremities than in the middle, and covered by the flexor breyis pollicis pedis ; and an outer surfaee which is also a little concave, and corresponds at its upper part to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and below to the adductor pol- licis. Of the three edges by which these surfaces are separated, two are superior, rounded, and slightly concave; the third is inferior, more prominent than the preceding, and turned a little outwards. Itspos- terior or tarsal extremity presents a slightly concave, kidney-shaped surface, corresponding to the one which the internal cuneiform bone presents at its fore part; its circumference is bulged and uneven, and at the lower part is furnished with a tubercle, into which is inserted the tendon of the peroneus longus. Its anterior or phalan- geal extremity is called the head (capitulum) ; it is rounded, con- vex, smooth, and more extensive below than above. In the former direction, it presents two depressions in the form of channels, which are separated by an intervening prominence, and which lodge the sesamoid bones ; it is articulated to the first phalanx of the great toe. On the sides of this extremity are seen impressions for the lateral ligaments of the articulation.. OF THE SECOND METATARSAL FONE. 528. This is the longest of all the bones of this region. Its Body, which is elongated, narrower before than behind, presents in gene- ral a form which varies in different individuals. Its upper surface is slightly convex, and is divided by a blunt edge into two parts, the inner of which gives attachment to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and the outer to the second. Its loiver surface, which is very narrow, concave, and connected with the adductor pollicis pecHs, is covered by the two first plantar interosseous muscles. The inner surface is also narrow and rounded. The outer is flat, and like it, corresponds to an interosseous muscle. The posterior or tarsal extremity of the second metatarsal bone, which has the form of a wedge, and is jammed in, as it were, between the three cunci-' lorm bones, presents posteriorly a triangular concave surface^