284 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. show this muscle, in the direction of whose fibres the dissection is to be carried on. OF THE HYO-GLOSSUS. 1015. The hyo-^glossus is a thin, broad, quadrilateral muscle, situated at the upper and fore part of the neck. It arises from .three different points of the os hyoides, on which account it has been described by Albinus as consisting of three different muscles. The first, (Cerato-glossus), is attached by short aponeurotic fibres to the upper surface of the great horn of the hyoid bone. It as- cends a little obliquely from behind forwards, contracting in itf progress, toward the lower and lateral part of the tongue, where it is continuous with a portion of the fibres of the stylo-glossus, after having passed between its two bundles, and finally terminates in the dermis of the mucous membrane. The second portion (Basio- glossus) which is not so broad but thicker, covers the precedin<i portion a little at its upper part, and is separated from it below by the lingual artery ; it arises from the upper part of the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone, and ascends a little oblique- ly backwards and outwards. Lastly, the third portion (C/iondro- flossus) originates from the small horn of the same bone, as well as the cartilage placed between the body and the large horn, and ascends upon the sides of the root of the tongue, where it is confounded, like the basio-glossus, with the lingualis and genio- glossus, without our being able to trace it to the tegumentary mem- brane. 1016. The outer surface of this muscle is covered above by the stylo-glossus, with which it is connected; a little farther down, by the mylo-hyoideus, the great hypo-glossal nerve and submaxil- lary gland; and still farther down, by the genio-hyoideus, stylo- hyoideus and digastricus. The inner surface is in connexion with the constrictor pharyngis medius and genio-glossus muscles, the lingual artery, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 1017- The hyo-glossus lowers the base of the tongue, or raises the hyoid bone when the tongue is fixed. When it acts on one side only, it incUnes the tongue towards the same side. 1018. A part of the lower jaw being removed, the tongue drawir out of the mouth, and the parts covering its 07iter surface (1016) removed, the hyo-glossus will be exposed in its whole extent. OF THE GENIO-GLOSSUS. ! 1019. The Genio-glossus is a triangular radiated muscle, trans- versely flattened, and situated between the tongue and low.er maxillary bone. It'arises from the upper tubercle of the gonial process, by a small but very strong snort tendon, which is more