MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 355 1308. It concurs with the accelerator urina?, to compress the 8 urethra; and with the levator ani, it supports the lower part of I the rectum and tlic bladder. 1309. For the dissection of the muscles of the perineum, in the rmale, place the subject in the same position as for the lateral ope- r ration of hthotomy. Distend the lower part of the rectum with \ hair, introduce a staff into the urethra and bladder, and draw the ! scrotum and penis forwards and upwards; then make an incision t through the skin along the raphe, from the posterior part of the s scrotum to the anterior part of the anus, and another from each t tuberosity of the ischium to the same pomt, also one around the' ! anus. Dissect around the anus in the direction of the latter in-- I dsion to show the sphincter; dissect outwards, the skin on each ■ ! side of the raphe to show the accelerator urinas and the erector • penis; dissect in the direction of the incision from the tuberosity I of tlie ischium to the fore part of the anus, to expose the transver- i tfaUs perinei. These muscles of the perineum are covered by con- I densed cellular tissue, which is called theper^ineal fascia. IN WOMAN. OF THE ERECTOR CLITORIDIS. (Ischio-Cavernosus ). ■ 1310. It presents nearly the same arrangement as in the male, but is much smaller. It arises by aponeuroses, from the tuberosi- ty of the ischium, and terminates by embracing the cavernous bo- dy of the clitoris, to the erection of which it appears to contribute. OF THE CONSTRICTOR VAGINAE. 1311. This muscle forms a sort of fleshy ring, much more dis- tinct in young women than such as have borne children. It is fonned of two planes of fibres, which arising, so to speak, from the proper tissue of the vagina, are interlaced, between the anus and vulva, with the sphincter ani and transversus perinaei, and frequent- ly receive a bundle from the internal region of the sciatic tubero- sity. They turn on either side around the orifice of the vasfina, aegcnerate into an aponeurotic tissue, and lose themselves in the fibrous membrane of the cavernous body of the clitoris. This muscle contracts the orifice of the vagina, which it em- braces. . dissection of these muscles, the body is to be put ^" J^J"^ position as for the preceduig, and the vagina distend- ed. Make an incision along the ramus of the ischium, and dissect the skin and adipose tissue inwards; within the ramus of the ischi- um will be found the crus of the clitoris, with its erector mus cle