OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE BRAIN IN GEN-ERAL. 417 trate, by a multitude of small holes, into its substance, and are there subdivided. In the bottom of each of them, there is seen a layer of white substance: in the posterior, this layer is formed by two longitudinal bundles ; in the anterior, it is formed by transverse filaments which cross each other in the median line, and presents a greater degree of thickness in the neck than in any other part of dts extent. By the disposition of these grooves, the organ is ddeeply divided in its whole length, and as it were separated into • two thick cords intimately united in their whole extent. 1518. On the anterior and posterior surfaces of the body of the s spinal marrow, on either side, and at some distance from the median ^groove, are the collateral grooves, which are superficial and pretty libroad, and in which are inserted the roots of the spinal nerves. JThe posterior, which are more marked, have rounded and very white edges, and a reddish bottom formed by a very soft sub- sstance; they commence by a rather indistinct line between the nolivary eminence and the restiform body, and become broader and ildeeper as they descend. From the axis to the ninth dorsal verte- bbra, they are half a line in breadth ; each of them divides into two [parallel lines, separated by the white substance, which are gradu- lally lost upon the inferior extremity. In their whole course, they [■present a series of small holes regularly disposed one above the .1 other, in which the roots of the nerves were inserted. The two anterior collateral grooves commence between the cor- :pora pyramidalia and olivaria. They are less apparent, narrower, I and more superficial. Their bottom is less red, firmer, and more 1 dense. These grooves are much more distinct in newly born children, than in adults. 1519. The lateral surfaces of the body of the spinal marrow ■ correspond to the base of the transverse processes. They are nar- rower and rounded. No trace of groove or longitudinal division is perceived upon them, although some anatomists maintain the con- trary. 1520. The inferior extremity of the spinal marrow presents twobulgings, of which, the upper is larger and of an oval form, the inferior, smaller and conical. INTERNAL ORGANIZATION OP THE BRAIN IN GENERAL. 1521. The substance of the brain is soft and pulpy ; but its consistence varies according to age. It is almost fluid in the foetus, ana becomes gradually firmer as the person advances in life. Its specihc gravity, in the adult, is 1310. Its odour is somewhat nau- seous, tenacious, soluble in water, insoluble in alcohol and oils. Hi-of5 ! ^"bstance is not homogeneous throughout, but presents two "istinct modifications; a i^^^'i ^ ^Pf*"gy» seemingly vascular substance, of grayisii colour, name the Cmeritioiis or CnHiml .mhsf.nvcp, most