108 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. mous jaws, constitutes almost the entire head ; and they are the most voracious, as well as the most ferocious of animals. They seem to live, as it were, only for the purpose of eating. Without going beyond our own species, we are led to consider as stupid and gluttonous, a man who has the lower part of the face very promi- nent ; and artists, in their representations of heroes and gods, care- fully avoid this projection, and make the forehead advance, so as to give the eyes the expression of habitual meditation. 368. It has been attempted, from these data, to estimate the re- lative proportions of the cranium and face. One of the simplest means that has been employed for this purpose, is the facial angle of Camper, formed by the meeting of two ideal lines, one of which passes from the most prominent part of the forehead to the most projecting part of the upper jaw, while the other extends from the meatus auditorius externus to the same point. The more this angle approaches a right angle the more does the cranium project forwards, and consequently the greater is the size of the brain; the more acute it becomes, the more elongated is the face, and the more are the organs of taste and smell developed. By enabling us therefore to estimate, in a certain degree, the relative proportions of the skull and face, it is capable of indicating, in some measure, the development of intellect in the individual. In the heads of Europeans, this angle is generally 80 degrees ; it is 75 in those of the Mongolian race, and only 70 hi negroes. The Grecian sculptors, it is observed, have given their divinities a facial angle of 100 degrees. It becomes more and more acute, on the other hand, as we descend in the scale of animals, being larger in the mammifera than in birds, and in these latter than in reptiles and fishes. 369. But this means of estimating the relative dimensions of the cranium and face, is little to be depended upon, because, in many cases the frontal sinuses swell out the cranium so much as to raise the facial angle a great deal beyond what the proportion of the brain would require. This inconvenience, however, may be obviated, by employing the method proposed by M. Cuvier, who advises to view the cranium and face in a vertical and longitudinal section of the head, and to compare the areas which these two parts may pre- SMit. Now, in the European, the area of the cranium is about four times that of the face; while in the negro, the latter increases about a fifth, and in the glires and solipeda, it becomes succes- sively larger. It is easy in this manner to appreciate the individual differences. OF THE PELVIS.* 370. The Pelvis is a large osseous cavity of an irregular form, open above and below, which terminates the trunk inferiorly; it • Pchm is thn Latin for a basin, to which the upper part of this group of bones has a considerable resemblance. Vesalius and Colombns appear to have been the