829 OF THE MAMMJE. ed from each otlier, covered by a fine, smooth, semi-transparent skin, softer to the touch and less coloured than that of the rest of the body. Noj wrinkle or fold is observed upon them in the healthy state. 3055. Towards the central part of each mamma, however, the skin is seen abruptly changing its colour and assuming a rosy tint in young girls, or a reddish brown one in women who have suckled several children. This circle of the skin, where the latter is re- markable for its extreme tenuity, presents however a wrinkled ap- pearance, owing to the presence of sebaceous glands, and is called the Areola of the nipjjle. These glands, whose number varies from four to ten, are irregularly disseminated over the whole areo- la, or form a regular circle near its circumference. They present near their summit, two, three, or four small apertures, the orifices of their excretory ducts. They seem destined to furnish an unc- tuous fluid calculated to protect the nipple against the action of the saliva of the child. 3056. In the middle of the areola rises the Nipple (Papilla), a conical eminence, of a rosy tint, susceptible of a kind of erection during life, and at the surface of which there open the lactiferous vessels. The skin which covers this nipple is wrinkled, reticulat- ed, and furnished with a great number of very fine papillae. The orifices of the lactiferous ducts, which are observed at its surface, are surrounded by excessively minute hairs. ORGANIZATION OF THE MAMMiE. 3057- Besides the skin which covers them, the mammas are composed of a layer of more or less thick adipose tissue, a large gland, vessels of different kinds and nerves. 3058. Adipose Layei: It is chiefly to this that the organ owes its size and form, and the cellular tissue here appears so much the more impregnated with fat, the larger and softer the mammjE are, for in young girls, where it is firm, little fat is generally found. 3059. Mammary Gland. It is placed beneath the adipose layer, before the pectoralis major muscle, and represents a kind of convex cake, with an uneven surface, and an irregularly circum- scribed base, especially in women who have suckled several times, and which is prolonged to a greater distance upwards and outwards than downwards and inwards. The anterior surface of this gland is very uneven. There are observed upon it prominences in the form of ridges and more or less voluminous, and depressions in which are lodged pellets of adipose cellular tissue. The tissue of the mammary gland results from the assemblage of several lobes of different sizes, and closely connected with each other by dense cellular tissue not containing fat. These lobes are near each other, and more numerous towards the centre Uian af its