ORGANS OF GENERATION. 81G OF THE URETHllA. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 3007. The Urethra* is the excretory duct of both the urine and semen. It is from nine to twelve inches long, extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis, where its ex- ternal orifice occurs, is bent several times in the direction of its length, and has a large capacity, which much exceeds that of. all the other excretory ducts. Its walls are partly spongy, partly membraneous, and it receives in its course, the ejaculatory ducts and those of the prostate gland, of Cowper s glands, and of a mul- titude of mucous follicles. The external diameter is not the same in its whole length. At first directed a little obliquely forwards and downwards, the urethra traverses the prostate gland. On emerging from that body, it passes before the inferior extremity of the rectum, under the symphysis pubis, ascends before the latter part, between the two crura of the corpus cavernosum, places itself in the groove of the lower surface of the latter organ, and terminates at the summit of the glans by a vertically elongated aperture. This second part of the urethra changes its direction according to the state of the cor- pus cavernosum. 3008. From the difference of disposition and structure which this canal presents in the different parts of its extent, it is divided into three portions, as follows : 1°. A prostatic portion, near the bladder, situated above the in- ferior extremity of the rectum, at about an inch from the anus and perinseum, and from fifteen to eighteen lines in length. It passes obUquely through the prostate gland, the tissue of which sustains its walls, which are extremely thin. It has the figure of a cone having its summit directed forwards, and is intimately at- tached to the intestine by cellular tissue and by the recto-vesical aponeurosis. 2°. A membraneous portioji, only from eight to ten lines in length, connected with the rectum by dense cellular tissue below and behind ; it approaches anteriorly the inferior region of the symphysis pubis, and the anterior fibres of the levatores ani mus- cles. It rests upon the vesiculae seminales, and is connected with them by an aponeurotic lamina. In this portion of its extent, the urethra is contracted, and its walls are also thin. In this place there occur between it, the bladder and the symphysis pubis, large veins and loose cellular tissue. 3°. A spongy portion {corpus spongiostim urethrce) which ex- pands anteriorly to form the glans. It commences posteriorly be- fore the inferior extremity of the rectum, to which it is attached