5L5 OF THE EXTERNAL rOPLlTEAL NERVE. other filaments which lose themselves in the integuments. One of them, however, which is larger than the other, and frequently arises separately, unites at the outer edge of the tendo Achillis with a twig of the tibial nerve, to form the external saphenus nerve. 1844. Musculo-cutaneous Branch, (Nervus Peroneus Ewter- niis). It descends at first a little obliquely inwards and forwards, between the peroneus longus and extensor communis digitorum pedis, then between the latter and the peroneus tertius. Towards the middle of the leg, this nerve becomes more superficial, and is situated under the aponeurosis, behind which it creeps for some time. It perforates it about two-thirds down, sends outwards some filaments into the integuments which cover the lower extremity of the fibula, and divides into two twigs which direct themselves su- perficially over the back of the foot, diverging from each other, the internal one being the larger. 1845. Internal and Superficial Twig of the Back of the Foot. It directs itself inwards, and gives at first several fiilaments to the integuments, which communicate with those of the internal saphe- nus nerve (1812). When it has arrived at the foot, it bifurcates and produces two divergent secondary twigs. The inner follows the corresponding edge of the foot, furnishes several filaments to the cellular tissue, the integuments, and the muscles of the great toe, and runs along the first metatarsal bone and great toe, reaching al- most to its extremity. The outer runs between the first two me- tatarsal bones, and sends its ramifications over the upper and outer part of the second. 1846. External and Suj)erjici<d Twig of the Back of the Foot. It runs along the middle part of the upper surface of the foot, be- tween the tendons of the extensor muscles of the toes and the in- teguments, after sending some filaments over the outer malleolus. Towards the posterior extremity of the metatarsus, it separates in- to three secondary twigs. The inner is prolonged between the se- cond and third metatarsal bones, and spreads its divisions over the outer side of the second toe and the inner side of the third. The middle twig, passing between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, is distributed in the same manner to the third and fourth toe?. Lastly, the outer runs in the interval between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and loses itself on the correspondijig toes. Fre- quently this twig is replaced by one of the twigs of the outer sa- phenus nerve, but it always at least communicates with it. 1847. Anterior Tibial Branch, (Nervus tibia lis anterior). It traverses the upper extremity of the peroneus longus and exten- sor digitorum communis, descends at first obliquely inwards between the fibula and these two muscles, gives them several filaments, then directs itself before the interosseous ligament and along the an- terior tibial artery, which is placed internally of it above, and ex- ternally below. After passing under the annular ligament of the