444 ORGANS OF SENSATION. ally found at the orifices of the venae Galeni. All the other si nuses are destitute of them. 1593. In the external pia mater graniform bodies resemblin those of the sinuses are also met with. They are especially o^ served along and to the outside of the superior longitudinal siniiJL around the cerebral veins. Here they are enveloped by the araclt noid membrane, and their size is so much the larger the nearer th^j are to the sinus. Some of them are engaged in the separations 9 the fibres of the dura mater which give passage to the veins, anE are in some measure continuous with the granulations of the sinn itself. At the base of the brain and around the other sinuses similar disposition is observed. 1594. The internal pia mater also presents some of these grs nulations. They are observed in the choroid plexus, where the are of a reddish gray colour, and rather soft. There are also som beneath the velum interposition, at the fore part of the pines gland, where they are disposed in two rows which unite so as t form a triangle, at the base of which the canal of the arachnoi membrane opens. Lastly, they are equally met with in the chc xoid plexus of the fourth ventricle. OF THE PROPER MEMBRANE OF THE SPINAL MARROW. 1595. Some authors consider this membrane as a prolongatioi of the pia mater of the brain; but it presents sufficient difference to render it distinguishable from that envelope. It is formed by solid, pretty thick, firm, strong, and somewhat fibrous tissue; it density is so much the greater the lower it is examined. Few ves sels ramify in it, but it is traversed by a great number on thei way to the spinal marrow ; its colour is yellowish white. By it,' j ' escternal surface., it is in connexion with the arachnoid membranei j but forms no adhesion to it. Laterally, it is continuous with the 1 neiu-ilema of the vertebral nerves and with the ligamentum dentu tum. Its internal surface adheres to the spinal marrow in so in timate a manner as to seem to be continuous with it. Its vppo extremity is prolonged, becoming insensibly thinner, as far as th( cerebral protuberance. OF THE LIGAMENTUM DENTATUM. 1596. The Ligamentum dentatum is a whitish, transparent thin, but very strong band, which extends from the great occipit^ hole to the inferior extremity of the spinal marrow, passing on eacl side between the anterior and posterior roots of the vertebra nerves. Several modern anatomists have considered the ligamen-f tum dentatum as a prolongation of the proper membrane of the spinal marrow; but it is really distinct from it.