ORGANS OF DIGESTION. G18 stomach, which advances more or less upon it, and at its left end is in relation with tlic spleen. Its lower surface, which is also smooth and polished, rests upon the mass of the small intestine. Its anterior edge, which is convex, gives attachment to the great omentum, and is in contact with the walls of the abdomen; the posterior is concave, and embraced by a fold of the peritoneum named the Transverse Mesocolon. 2195. The Descending Colon commences under the spleen, and bears the greatest similarity, in respect to size, fixedness, and relations, to the ascending portion. Like it, it is placed behind the small intestine, and before the left kidney and quadratus lum- borum, with which it is connected by cellular tissue, or by a fold of the peritoneum named the Left Lumbar Mesocolon. 2196. The Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon, which is of moderate size, very mobile, and in this respect similar to the small intestine, occupies the deeper part of the left iliac fossa, where it describes a double curve in the form of the letter S, whence its name. It commences at the end of the left lumbar region, and terminates at the upper strait of the pelvis, near the articulation of the last lum- bar vertebra with the sacrum. It is surrounded in nearly its whole circumference by the peritoneum, which fixes it above and behind, by means of a very extended and rather loose fold, direct- ed obliquely from left to right, named the Iliac Mesocolon. An- teriorly it corresponds to the small intestine; posteriorly, to the left psoas and iliacus muscles, as well as to the spermatic vessels and ureter of the same side. 2197- From the above account, it is easy to see that the colon describes in the abdomen a circle which measures nearly its whole circumference, and which contams the convolutions of the small intestine (2177)- In its whole extent, the colon, hke the coecum, presents interrupted bulgings, produced by three longitudinal bands; but these prominences, which are not quite so large as in the ccecum, are almost entirely obliterated in the sigmoid flex- ure. It also presents a very great number of fatty appendages, owing to particular folds of the peritoneum, and so multiplied in its ascending and descending portions, that they seem to envelope it with a continuous layer. There are fewer upon the arch, and scarcely any upon the sigmoid flexure, where they are also much less voluminous. 2198. In its interior, the colon presents the same disposition as the coecum. ORGANIZATION OF THE COLON. 2199. Serous Membrane or Coat. It is formed by the peri-- toneum, which, after having enveloped the intestine, fixes it to the neighbouring parts by diflcrent folds, which take their name from the portion to which they belong. The largest of these folds is the