ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ^66 pending obliquely outwards in a diverging manner, are partly attached to the fibrous membrane, fibro-cartilage, and even skin of the wing of the nose, and partly lose themselves in the upper lip, passing before the orbicularis oris. 912. Its anterior surface is placed beneath the skin, to which It adheres intimately below. At its upper part alone, it is con- cealed by a portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum and hy the labial vein. The posterior surface covers the preceding muscle, the as- cending process of the superior maxillary bone, the edge of the le- vator labii superioris, the depressor ala? nasi, a part of the orbicu- laris oris, and some branches of the infra-orbitar nerve. 913. It raises the upper lip and the wing of the nose, which it also draws a little outwards. OF THE LEVATOR LABII SUPEIIIORIS. 914. This muscle is thin, flat, rather short, and of a very irre- gularly quadrilateral form. It is situated at the middle and inner part of the face, beneath the edge of the orbit. It is attached above the infra-orbitar foramen, over an extent of about an inch, to the malar and upper maxillary bones, by short aponeurotic fibres, pretty frequently divided into two, and sometimes into three fasci- culi. From thence it descends, contracting, downwards and in- wards, to the corresponding lip, where it is confounded with the orbicularis oris, between the nose and the commissure. 915. Its anterior surface is covered at its upper part by the or- bicularis palpebrarum and labial vein, and below by the skin, to which it strongly adheres. The posterior surface is in connexion with the levator anguli oris, from which it is separated by the infra- orbitar vessels and nerve, as well as by a great quantity of adipose tissue. It also covers the depressor labii superioris et alai nasi. Its inner edge is often confounded with the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi; and the outer frequently united to the zygomaticus minor. 916. It raises the upper lip, carrying it a little outwards. OF THE LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS. ( Musculus caninus.) 917. This is a small elongated flat muscle, broader and thinner above than below, attached, beneath the infra-orbitar holer, by short iiponeuroses, to the fossa canina, from which it descends obliquely outwards to the commissure of the lips, where it seems to be con- tinuous with the triangularis, although some of its fibres are inter- faced with those of the orbicularis oris, zygomaticus major, and buccinator muscles.