ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 286 of tlie mouth. The inner covers posteriorly the constrictor pha- ryngis superior, hyo-glossus and lingualis. 1025. The stylo-glossus carries the tongue upwards, backwards, and to a side, when it acts alone ; but when it contracts at the same time with the other, the tongue is carried directly upward and backwards. The tongue should be drawn forwards and to the opposite side, while this muscle is being dissected. OF THE LINGUALIS. 1026. The Lingualis is a small irregular bundle, entirely com- posed of fleshy fibres, lying under the sides of the tongue, between the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus, which are on the outside, and the genio-glossus, which is within. It is elongated, thicker poste- riorly than anteriorly, and incorporated in its lateral parts withi the muscles just mentioned. Its posterior extremity loses itself in the base of the tongue ; the anterior is prolonged as far as the tip of that organ. Its inferior surface is lined anteriorly by the mu- cous membrane of the mouth. The upper, confounded with the! fleshy and complicated texture of the tongue. 1027. It shortens the tongue and depresses its point. 1028. Divide from before backwards a cellular layer which se- parates the genio-glossus from the stylo-glossus and hyo-glossus, dissect outwards the two latter muscles, and the hngualis will be ex- posed. MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX AND PALATE. or THE CONSTRICTOR PHAllYNGIS INFERIOR. 1029. This is the largest and longest of the muscles of the pha rynx. It is membraneous, broad, and of an irregular quadrilatera form. It arises below, sometimes from the first ring of the trachea by a small number of fibres only, but always from the outer par of the cricoid cartilage, the small horn and the obUque ridge of th( thyroid cartilage, behind the crico-thyroideus and sterno-thyroideus From these different points of attachment, its fibres proceed back- wards, inwards, and upwards, so much the shorter the lower thej are, and becoming more vertical the higher their situation. In thi median line, they are incorporated with those of the opposite raus cle by a kind of raphe. 1030. Its outer surface is covered externally by the sterno-thy] roideus, the thyroid body and trunk of the carotid artery : pQ teriorly, it is connected with the rectus capitis anticus major a longus coUi muscles, and with the anterior vertebral ligament, b; very loose cellular tissue without fat. The inner surface is covei