132 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. named the Coronoid {processus coronoideus), is situated before and beneath the olecranon ; at its upper part it is cartilaginous and inclined backwards; but below, it is directed forward, and pre- sents a very distinct impression for the brachialis internus. On the inside, it gives attachment to some fibres of the pronator teres and flexor sublimis, together with the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Externally, it presents an oval cavity, with its greatest diameter from before backwards, which is covered with cartilage, and is named the smaller sigmoid cavity* (cavitas sig- moidea minor J ; this cavity is articulated with the upper extremity of the radius, and is continued above into the Larger Sigmoid Ca- vity (cavitas sigmoidea major), which rolls upon the trochlea of the humerus, and which is formed by the anterior surface of the olecranon, and the upper surface of the coronoid process, which unite nearly at a right angle ; a transverse hne notched at the ex- tremities indicates the situation of this union. Its posterior and vertical portion is larger than the anterior, which is horizontal. The larger sigmoid cavity is divided by a prominent line, which passes from the upper part of the olecranon to the summit of the coronoid process, into two lateral portions, the inner of which is the larger. 459. The Lower or Carpal Extremity is very small, and pre- sents two eminences. The outer, which is named the Head (ca- pitulum ulnce), is rounded, covered with cartilage, contiguous infe- riorly with the triangular fibro-cartilage of the joint, and received externally into the cavity of the lower extremity of the radius, (453). The inner, or Styloid process {processus styloideus), is more promi- nent, and is placed a little backwards; it is conical and slightly turned outwards ; its summit gives attachment to the internal late- ral ligament of the wrist-joint. Posteriorly these two eminences are separated by a groove, in which the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris passes, and below by an uneven depression, into which the triangular fibro-cartilage just mentioned is inserted. 460i Structure, Articulations, and Development. The ulna, which is perfectly similar to the radius in its structure, is articulat- ed with that bone, the humerus, and, by the intervention of the triangular fibro-cartilage (459), '^^ith the cuneiform bone. It is al- so developed by three points of ossification. Sometimes it presents a supernumerary bone at the summit of the olecranon or coronoid process.-}- Sometimes also there occurs a centre of ossification in the cartilage, which is to form the styloid process. * 2;y^ofjJ^}, having- the form of the letter sigrna, represented by C and not by 2. •)■ Os sesamoideuin processui anconeo im])Ositum,f vel in apice processus coronoi- dei§ observanint. 8oeinni. Dc Corp. Hum. Fab. torn. i. p. 327. X Clieiial OUss. Bntan, Med. Basil. 1705, 4 § xxviii. § 111 collectione mca. 5