PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 100 340. The head, when placed on a horizontal plane, rests upon the incisors and occipital condyles ; the latter are so disposed as to be opposite the middle of a line drawn from these teeth to the most prominent point of the occiput: it is here, therefore, that the centre of gravity of the head is placed, and this is the reason why it is so well kept in equilibrium upon the spine. The plane of the occipital hole is also parallel to the plane of the palate, and it is for this reason that we have the mouth turned forwards. It is, however, in the European only that we find these disposi- tions exactly such as we have represented them. In the negro, the anterior portion of the line mentioned is longer than the posterior, on account of the protrusion of the jaws ; and in proportion as we descend toward the lower orders of vertebrate animals, we find this peculiarity more distinctly marked, as Daubenton has observed; for in them not only are the jaws elongated, but the condyles are also removed backwards. 341. Although formed of the cranium and face, which we have already fully described, the head still presents to our observation several circumstances resulting from the union of these two parts. Thus, in the first place, four large cavities are formed in the head at the expense of the skull and face together. These are the Or- hitar Fosscb, which contain the organs of vision, and the Nasal FosscB, in which are placed the organs of smell. There are also two cavities which occupy its lateral regions, and which are named the Zygomatic Fossce. Lastly, the Temporal Fossce, which we have seen formed in a great measure by the cranium are complet- ed by the face. OF THE ORBITS. 342. The Orbits (Orbitce), which are situated on each side, and in the upper part of the anterior region of the head, and are per- fectly similar to each other, have the form of a pyramid with the base turned forwards, but whose axis, being directed obhquely in- wards, causes the summit to incline in that direction. Their walls represent four triangular surfaces, which unite so as to form laterally retiring angles. 343. The upper wall or vault (lacunar orbitce), is shghtly in- clined backwards ; it is concave and formed, anteriorly by the frontal bone, posteriorly by the process of Ingrassias; near its sum- mit, and to the inside it presents the optic hole, which is directed obliquely backwards and inwards, so that were its axis prolonged, it would intersect the one on the other side at the pituitary fossa. Before it, is a portion of the sphenoidal suture of the cranium, (282) ; and altogether anteriorly there are observed, to the out- side, the small fossa which lodges the lachrymal gland, and inter- nally the inequalities to which the cartilaginous pulley of the ob- liquus superior muscle of the eye is attached.