104^ PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. nasal bones, and a third formed by tlie upper maxillary and palate bones. It is marked by numerous vascular and nervous furrows; pre- sents at its upper part the lower orifices of the internal olfactory canals; is cut anteriorly by a lai'ge triangular notch; and is ter- minated behind l)y the guttural edge of the vomer. 35C. The Outer Wall of the nasal fossae is that which presents the most important object of examination. At its upper and fore part, there is first observed the union of some transparent and irre- gular lamella3 of the ethmoid bone with the frontal bone, and the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, of Avhich the internal surface is seen a little beneath, where it forms part of the middle meatus. A little farther back, is a rugose and quadrilateral sur- face of the ethmoid bone, perforated by a great number of olfac- tory canals, shaped like the point of a pen, more or less long and oblique. This surface becomes convex posteriorly, and directs it- self outwards to unite with the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and ■with the sphenoid bone itself. From this arrangement, there re- sults a vertical channel between the body of the sphenoid bone and the lateral masses of the ethmoid, which ends above at the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus, and below at the superior meatus. This same surface is prolonged forwards over the middle turbinated bone; but, posteriorly, it is suddenly limited by the superior turbinated hone, which is formed by a thin plate of the ethmoid bone, inchned downwards and backwards, convex internally, concave outwards, limited anteriorly by a cul-de-sac, gradually terminated behind to- wards the vertical channel, and below, determining the form and extent of the superior meatus. 357. This meatus is a kind of horizontal channel, occupying only the posterior part of the wall which we are describing, perfo- rated anteriorly by one or two apertures, which lead into the pos- terior cells of the ethmoid bone, and posteriorly by the splieno-pa- latine hole, which is formed by the palate bone, the sphenoid bone, and frequently by its turbinated bone, which is sometimes double, and which always perforates directly the outer wall of the nasal fossae from within outwards. This hole gives passage to the nerves and vessels of the same name, and opens into the spheno-max- illary fossa. 358. Beneath the superior meatus, is the middle or ethmoidal turbinated, bone, larger and more curved than the upper, thin above and thick below, convex inwards, and concave externally ; its surface is wrinkled, and sometimes the" small olfactory channels are prolonged as far as its lower edge. It belongs to the ethmoid bone, and is terminated behind by free inequalities. It occupies only about the middle third of the outer wall of the nasal fossae, and principally forms their middle meatus. 359- This meatus is of much greater extent than the upper, and presents from before backwards, 1°, A portion of the inner sur- face of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone; 2°, A su-