OUGANS OF SENSATION. 428 I tissue which the diverging and converging fibres of the cercbrali convolutions form by intermingling/ t The Digital Cavitt/ or Posterior Horn is entirely lined by me-l dullary substance. On its inferior wall there is observed an emi-( nence (Hippocampus minor), broad before, narrow and pointed] behind, curved inwards, and more or less prominent in different subjects. It is sometimes divided by a groove, so as to appear double; its structure is the same as that of the cornu Ammonis (1542). The lower half of the lateral ventricles, which occupies a part of the posterior lobe and the whole middle lobe, is a long narrow canal, longitudinally curved, and convex externally. Its walls aro<? formed by the fimbriated bodies, the cornu Ammonis, and a sma! grayish band. 1549. In their whole length, the lateral ventricles arc dividciU by a slit whose direction is followed by the choroid plexus. This slit is formed between the optic thalami and the edges of the for- nix above, between the optic thalami and the corpora fimbriata be- low. It commences on each side at the aperture of communicatior with the third ventricle, behind the anterior peduncles of the for- nix, and terminates at the inferior surface of the brain, where it if closed by the arachnoid membrane, and where it receives prolon- gations of the pia mater and vessels. In its whole extent, it is strengthened by a fold of the inner arachnoid. 1550. Under the fornix, and between the two optic thalami there is another cavity, named the third or middle ventricle It is of much less extent than the preceding, is single, and placec in the median line. Its direction is horizontal, its greatest diame ter from before backwards, and its form elliptical. Its upper wall which is of less extent than the lower, is limited by the tela cho roidea and the fornix (1544). Its lower wall, which is very thin forms part of the inferior surface of the brain. Posteriorly, it ii formed by the medullary lamina which occupies the intervals o the two crura of the brain ; more anteriorly, by the upper part o the pisiform tubercles ; and at its foremost part, by the gray sub stance which occurs behind the commissure of the optic nerves. I is to be remarked that this part of the ventricle is concave, am that on account of the smallness of its breadth, it seems to form i small slit, of which the deepest part corresponds to the infundibu lum. The lateral walls of the third ventricle are Uraited by th* optic thalami, which are contiguous in the greater part of their ex tent, and united in one point by a grayish band. Anteriorly and below, this ventricle is closed by a mcmbran which rises from the commissure of the optic nerves (1506), am presents at its level a kind of aperture which, since Columbu? time, has been generally called the Vulva, and on the sides < which are two holes which communicate with the lateral ventricU (1544). Anteriorly and above, it is limited by the Anterior Con missurc, a sort of whitish, transverse, cylindrical cord, situate