572 ORGANS OF SENSATION. Its summit presents a depression for its articulation with the ( lenticulare. Of the two Branches, the one is anterior and tl other posterior ; they separate from the neck in a divergent mai ner, and circumscribe between them a parabohc space; the fir is less curved and shorter than the second ; both present on the opposite sides a groove, which is continued over the outer surfa< of the base, and in which is attached a very dehcate membran which fills up their interval. The Base, which forms the inne most part of this bone, is a very thin and pretty broad plat( elongated from before backwards, continuous with the two branch( at its extremities, convex internally and concave externally. : presents a form corresponding to that of the fenestra ovalis (2008 which it closes inaccurately, and to the circumference of which is united by the mucous membrane of the tympanum. 2022. The bones of the ear are almost entirely composed ( compact tissue. The malleus, incus, and stapes however present little cellular tissue in their thick portions. Each of them appeal to be developed by a single centre of ossification, and they are n markable for the size and compactness which they already posses in the foetus. Their articulations are destitute of hgaments, an they appear to be connected with each other only by means of th fibro-mucous membrane which lines the cavity of the tympanum. OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BONES OF THE EAR. 2023. Of the Tensor Tympani, or Intei'nal Muscle of tfm Malleus. It arises in part from the rough surface which the pel trous process presents before the inferior orifice of the carotid canaM and in part from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. At fir^ aponeurotic, it soon becomes fleshy, directs itself backwards am outwards, and enters into a particular canal of the temporal bom (2012), separated from the Eustachian tube by the processu cochleariformis, and surrounded by a very strong membrane On arriving at the tympanum, it degenerates into a small tendon! which is reflected over the extremity of the processus cochlearifor, mis, and is inserted into the process of the handle of the malleus: Its use appears to be to stretch the membrana tympani, by draw, ing the malleus inwards. It receives a filament from the facia nerve (1676). 2024. Of' the Laxator Ti/mpani, or Anterior Muscle of thi Malleus. Much more slender than the preceding, it arises fron the spine of the sphenoid bone and from the outer part of tht cartilage of the Eustachian tube, by very short aponeurotic fibres. It ascends outwards and backwards, enters the glenoid fissure, and is inserted, by a tendon, into the summit of the process oi Raw, (2018). It probably relaxes the membrana tympani, by drawing the malleus outwards and forwards. 2025. Of the Muscle of the Stapes (Stapedms), Still smaller 5