I'ASSIVR ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and parallel to the other. In women, however, there is always a slight inclination inwards, in the whole extent of the extremity. In general also the lower extremity presents a curvature outwards, be- cause the femur is a little convex in this direction ; because the outer part of the upper extremity of the tibia is never suflicicntly raised, to compensate the deficiency in the length of the correspond- ing condyle, and because the upper extremity of the tibia itself is also a little curved. In the thigh the column is solid, and formed by a single bone. At the knee, it is of larger size. In the leg, it contracts a little, and results from the junction of two bones which are separated by an interval. 544. In describing the os femoris, we pointed out nearly all the circumstances which the Th'ujh {femur), presents in the skeleton. Its axis is not parallel to that of the extremity in general. At the union of its body with its upper extremity it is angularly bent, and approaches the integuments at its upper and outer part, leaving in- fernally a large space for muscles. We observe, however, that the two femurs are by no means parallel, being separated above by the whole distance from one cotyloid cavity to the other, and coming very near each other at their lower extremity ; whence it results that in their natural position the condyles are placed at the same level, although the inner is a little longer than the outer. We also observe, with reference to the theory of fractures and dislocations, that the great trochanter, the outer condyle and the malleolus of the fibula are situated nearly in the same line in the natural posi- tion of the limb. 545. The Leg {cms), gradually diminishes in thickness from above downwards. It is flattened from before backwards, and from without inwards, and it is thicker internally than externally, on ac- count of the unequal size of the two bones of which it consists. The space by which the latter are separated is filled by a membra- nous ligament, and is very narrow below. In its whole length also, it seems narrower than the interval left between the radius and ulna. The leg presents, at its lower part, the two malleoli or ankles. In all cases it forms an angle with the foot; but it is only when bent that it forms one with the thigh. 546. The Foot {pes), which is composed of twenty-six bones very closely connected, and articulated to each other by a great many surfaces, forms a solid whole, of which the axis intersects, nearly at a right angle, the line of direction of the total length of the body. It is longer than broad, and is more prolonged anteriorly than posteriorly, the posterior portion of the calcaneum being in fact the only part of the foot that projects beyond the leg in the Litter direction. It is at first narrow, so long as it is formed of the calcaneum alone, but quickly enlarges when that bone unites with the astrji-