Of THIi CEIlliUliAL AllTEIUES. G7I 2379. The Frontal Artery. It is smaller than the nasal, and directs itself a little outwards, to issue by the upper and inner part of the orbit. It ascends upon the forehead, between the bone and the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and divides at once into two or three branches which become subcutaneous, and subdivide in all directions, in the orbicularis palpebrarum, frontalis and cor- rugator supercilii muscles. Its ramifications anastomose with those of the opposite frontal artery and superficial temporal. 2380. After giving rise to the ophthalmic artery, the internal carotid produces in the interior of the cranium several branches distinguished into posterior and anterior. The first are the com- municatiny and choroidal arteries; the others, the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. OF THE COMMUNJCATING AUTEIIY OF WILLIS. 2S8I. It directs itself obliquely backwards and a little inwards, passes over the side of the infundibulum and mammillary emi- nences, above the arachnoid membrane, and internally of the thick- I ened edge of the middle lobe of the brain, and goes to open into the posterior cerebral artery, which is furnished by the basilar. Its size, which is in general rather moderate, frequently varies how- ever, and is not always the same on both sides. In its course, it sends very slender ramifications to the optic ■ thalami and nerves, the mammillary eminences, the tuber ciner^um (1506), the infundibulum, the choroid plexus, and the crura of 1 the brain. Frequently the twig which belongs to the optic tha- '. lamus is much larger than the others. OF THE ARTEKY OF THE CHOJIOID PLEXUS. 2382. Always less than the preceding, it arises above it, and j proceeds obliquely backwards and outwards, towards the crus of I the brain, close to which it enters into the corresponding lateral • ventricle by its inferior fissure, to lose itself by subdividing in the I choroid plexus. But before this, it gives a great number of twigs I to the thalamus of the optic nerve. OF THE ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY. 2383. The anterior Cerebral Artery directs itself obliquely for- 1 wards and inwards, between the optic nerve and the posterior re. \ gion of the anterior lobe of the brain, as far as the great fissure 1 which separates the hemispheres of that organ from each other. ' There, after furnishing small twigs to the pia mater, and optic ( olfactory nerves, it comes very near the corresponding artery