ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. teres major, separated from it by cellular tissue, and afterwards by a small synovial capsule, it soon unites with it to be inserted at the same time into the posterior lip of the bicipital groove. An aponeurotic band about two lines broad, descends from the small tuberosity of the humerus to these tendons, which send out from their lower edge another fibrous expansion which throws itself in- to the brachial aponeurosis, and some bundles which line the bicipital groove in conjunction with the tendon of the pectoralis major. 806. The posterior surface of the body of this muscle is every- where covered by the integuments, excepting at its upper and inner part, where it is subjacent to the trapezius. The anterior surface covers the oblique muscles of the abdomen, the serratus posticus inferior, sacro-spinalis, levatores costarvim, the inferior intercostal muscles, the serratus magnus, rhomboideus, teres ma- jor, infra-spinatus, the lower ribs, and the inferior angle of the scapula. 807- The anterior surface of its tendon, united with that of the teres major, is in connexion with the axillary vessels, the brachial plexus, and the coraco-brachialis. The posterior is contiguous to the upper and inner part of the humerus, where a thin synovial capsule facilitates its motions. 800. The latissimus dorsi carries the arm backwards by lower- ing it, and making it turn upon its axis from without inwards. It also draws the tip of the shoulder backwards and downwards. It applies the inferior angle of the scapula against the thorax, and brings the arm strongly against the walls of that cavity when it acts simultaneously with the pectoralis major. When a person is suspended by the hands, and an effort is made to raise himself, it pulls the trunk upon the arms. By taking its fixed point upon the humerus, it can also raise the ribs to which it is attached, and thus become a muscle of inspiration. Lastly, it is a tensor of the aponeurosis which covers the sacro-spinalis muscle, whose contrac- tions it thus favours. 809. For the dissection of this muscle an incision should be made along the mesial line, from the termination of that for the trapezius, to the lower part of the sacrum. The upper part of the muscle is to be dissected by removing the lower part of the trapezius, in doing which, the cellular membrane be- tween these two parts is to be dissected off along with the latter. Then cut through the skin parallel to the upper margin of the muscle, and dissect it off along with the subjacent cellular tissue and fat, from above downwards ; the dissector must always re- member to stretch the fibres by drawing the arm outwards when the upper fibres are being dissected, somewhat upwards for the middle fibres, and very much upwards for the lower. The trapezius and latissimus dorsi being removed, the next layer presents the following muscles.