PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 138 ecotremity presents a nearly plain surface, liorizontal at the fore part, inclined forwards and inwards posteriorly, which is articulat- ed to the OS magnum ; posteriorly, this extremity gives attachment to ligaments, and to the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis bre- vior: anteriorly, it receives ligaments only; externally, it presents a concave smooth surface, which is articulated with the second me- tacarpal bone ; and, internally, there are observed two surfaces se- parated by a depression, which are connected with the fourth me- tacarpal bone. Its lower extremity, which is articulated with the first phalanx of the middle-finger, is similar to that of the preced- ing bone. OF THE rOUllTH METACARPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Digiti Annularis.) 473. It is shorter and smaller than the third, and presents the same form in its body, which gives attachment externally to the second palmar, and third dorsal interosseous muscles, and on the inside to the fourth dorsal. Its upper extremity presents two smooth articular surfaces, of which the inner is broader and some- what concave, and articulates with the unciform bone, while the other, which is external and posterior, is very small and plain, and is connected with the os magnum. Before and behind, this extre- mity gives attachment to ligaments ; externally, it has two facets separated by a depression, connected with two corresponding facets of the third, and internally, a simple surface, somewhat concave, united to the fifth metacarpal bone. The lower extremity is arti- ctdated to the first phalanx of the ring-finger. OF THE FIFTH METACARPAL BONE. {Os Metacarpi Digiti Minimi.) 474. This bone is shorter than the fourth. Its body is a little flattened from behind forwards. Posteriorly, it is marked with an oblique line, which divides it diagonally into two portions, the outer of which is concave, and gives attachment to the fourth dor- sal interosseous muscle, while the inner, which is convex and broader, is covered by the tendons of the extensors of the little fin- ger. To the outside and anteriorly, it gives attachment to the third palmar interosseous muscle, and, internally, where it is nar- row and uneven, to the adductor minimi digiti. The upper extre- mity presents a concave surface, directed a little outwards, and ar- ticulated with the os unciformc; there are seen upon it, internally, a tuberosity for the attachment of the extensor carpi ulnaris, ex- ternally, an articulating surface for the fourth metacarpal bone, and anteriorly and posteriorly, impressions of ligaments. The