ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 359 two anterior spinous processes of the ileum, the ileo-lumbar ligament, andthe two anterior thirdsof the inncrlip of the iliac crest. From these points its fibres converge and descend, the inner, which are very short, vertically, the outer more and more obliquely ; the latter are the longest. They are all successively inserted into the outer edge of the tendon of the psoas magnus, which they accompany to the small trochanter (1290), passing with it under the crural arch. 1295. Its anterior surface, which is concave above, and convex below, is covered, above the crural arch, by the iUac fascia, above which is the peritoneum, and by the crccum to the right, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left. The portion of this sur- face which is below the arch, corresponds externally to the sarto- rius ; internally, to the pectineus and the crural vessels and nerves ; anteriorly, to the cellular tissue of the fold of the groin, which se- parates it from the crural aponeurosis. Its posterior surface co- vers the iliac fossa, the upper extremity of the rectus muscle, and the hip joint. 1296. It bends the thigh upon the pelvis, or the latter upon the thigh, and acts powerfully in maintaining the body in the erect posture. ■• 1297- The psoas magnus and iliacus internus, which issue unit- ed through the crural arch, are covered and kept in their place in the iliac fossa by an aponeurotic lamina, called the iliac fascia, in which the tendon of the psoas parvus is confounded, when that muscle exists, hiferiorly and externally, along Poupart's liga- ment this fascia is continuous with the transversahs fascia, which is situated behind the transversalis muscle, so that nothing can pass from the abdomen to the upper part of the thigh in any part of the space comprised between the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ileum and the eminentia ileo-pectinea. The femoral vessels lie on the surface of the iliac fascia, and have to pass to the thigh; to allow of their passage the connexion be- tween the iliac fascia and fascia transversalis ceases at the ileo- pectineal eminence; the latter continues attached to Poupart"'s liga- gament, the former is attached to the crest of the pubes, passes be- fore the pectineus muscle, is prolonged into the hollow of the groin, and there continued into the deep lamina of the fascia lata. A passage is thus afforded for the femoral vessels, the upper orifice of which is bounded, anteriorly by Poupart's ligament, posteriorly by the crest of the pubes, where it is covered by the iliac fascia, inter- nally hy Gimbernat's ligament, externally by the edge formed where the iliac fascia ceases to be connected with the transversalis fascia. It is through the inner part of this opening, on the inside of the femoral vessels, that crural hernia protrudes. The inferior orifice will be spoken of when the fascia lata is described. The iliac fascia is continued into the pelvis under the name of pelvic fascia. 1298. The lower part of the psoas magnus and iliacus cannot b» exposed until the dissection of the muscles of the thigh.