54.6 ORGANS OF SENSATION. Ha, than externally. It serves to conduct the tears towards these orifices during sleep. The free edges of the eyelids are concave and rounded over an extent of two or three lines on the side next the nose, where they correspond to the caruncula lachrymalis. When they begin to be cut obliquely, there is observed a small tubercle in which is placed the orifice of the lachrymal ducts. There also, they change their direction, become nearly straight when the eye is open, and present on the side next the eye, as far as the outer angle, a row of small holes which are the excretory orifices of the Meibomian glands, be- fore which, near the skin, is a series of hairs which are named CilicB. 1940. The Cilice which collectively are named the Eye-lashes, are hard and solid hairs, most commonly of the same tint as the hair of the head and eyebrows, sometimes, however, of a different colour, and arranged in two or three rows. They are more nu- merous, longer and stronger in the upper eyelid than in the lower, and their length is still greater at the middle of the edge where their bulbs are inserted than at its extremities. Those of the upper eyelid are at first directed downwards and then curved upwards. The reverse takes place in the lower. They are entirely wanting between the puncta lachrymaha and the angle of the eye. 1941. The Caruncula* Lachrymalis is a small soft membra- neous tumour of a pale red colour, placed in the inner angle of the eye behind the internal commissure of the eyelids. It is formed by a fold of the tunica conjunctiva, in the substance of which are observed mucous follicles and the biUbs of some very minute hairs. ORGANIZATION OF THE EYELIDS. 1942. Skin of the Eyelids. It is distinguished from that of the other parts of the body by its extreme delicacy and transparen- cy, quahties which become more sensible towards the free edge of the eyelids. It is applied upon a layer of loose cellular tissue, never charged with fat, but capable of being filled with serosity with extreme facility. 1943. Muscular Layer of the Eyelids. It is formed by that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum, in which the fleshy fibres are as it were deprived of colour (893) and widely separated. However, towards the free edge, they approach each other, so as to form a distinct bundle above the tarsal cartilage. 1944. Fibrous Memhratie of the Eyelids. It exists behind the muscular layer, from which it is separated by cellular tissue, and occupies only the external part of each eyelid. The portion which * Diminutive of Caro, flesli.