198 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. their concavity below, arc very sliort above, and are continuous with the lamina; of the symphysis ; they become longer in proportion as they are lower, and are then immersed in cellular tissue. This ligament is very firm and perfectly distinct. 637. The symphysis of the pubes is further strengthened above by various irregular fibres; there are also observed some which pass transversely over the prominence, which its fibro-cartilage forms behind. 638. Obturator Ligament, {Membrana obturrma foraminis thyroidei). It is on account of its situation that we here describe this fibrous organ, for it does not at all belong to the articulations of the pelvis. It is a true membrane, which almost entirely closes the obturator hole, to the circumference of which it is attached, excepting at the upper part, where there is a more or less distinct notch for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Its fibres are interlaced in various directions, and are always more marked toward the notch. Its anterior surface corresponds to the obtu- rator extcrnus muscle, and the posterior to the obturator internus, both of which are in part attached to it. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE EXTREMITIES. AKTJCULATIONS OF THE BONKS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTJIEMITIES. Sterno-Clavicular Articulation, 639- The clavicle is articulated by arthrodia Avith the upper ex- tremity of the sternum, which presents a concave surface (78) for the reception of the head of that bone (437)• The two articular surfaces, but especially that of the clavicle, are invested with a layer of diarthrodial cartilage, remarkable for its thickness. They do not exactly correspond in their dimensions, for the head of the clavicle exceeds in all directions, and especially above and before the circumference of the cavity of the sternum. Several ligaments serve to strengthen this articulation, they surround it on all sides so as to bear, in their general capacity, some resemblance to the na- ture of fibrous capsules. 640. Anterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament. This is a broad fasciculus, consisting of divergent fibres, separated by vascular in- tervals ; it is fixed by its narrow extremity to the fore part of the head of the clavicle, whence it proceeds downwards, and inwards over the edges of the articular cavity of the sternum, where it is attached by its broadest extremity. By its ■posterior surface it covers the two synovial membranes, and adheres strongly t;) the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and by the anterior corresponds to the sterno-mastoidcus and the integuments. 641. Posterior Steruo-elavicu/ar LJgamenf. This ligament is narrower and weaker than the preceding; its fibres are also less