OF THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. OGO to anastomose thousands of times between the two laminaz of the membrane, forming very flexuous arches of variable figure and size, between which there remains towards the centre of the pupil, an empty space of an irregular form, and destitute of blood- Tessels. 2371. The Superior Muscular Artery. It is sometimes want- ing. Immediately after its commencement, it gains the inferior surface of the attollens oculum muscle, and divides into several twigs which are distributed to its fleshy fibres, and to those of the levator palpebrae superioris and obiiquus oculi superior muscles, . as well as to the periosteum of the orbit. When this branch does not occur these twigs arise from the lachrymal artery, the supra-orbitar artery, and the ciliary arteries. 2372. The Inferior Muscular Artery. More voluminous than the preceding, it is never absent. It arises from the ophthalmic artery between the ciliary arteries, or after the lachrymal, and directs itself from behind forwards between the optic nerve and the depressor oculi muscle. Its twigs are distributed to that muscle, to the abductor oculi, the obiiquus oculi inferior, the periosteum of the orbit and the lachrymal sac. It presents the most numer- ous variations; its trunk sometimes accompanies the abductor oculi muscle, and issues from the orbit to anastomose by an arch with the infra-orbitar artery. It sometimes gives rise to the central artery of the retina. 2373. From the two muscular arteries principally, and occa- sionally from the lachrymal and infra-orbitar at the same time, come the Anterior Ciliary Arteries, which, to the number of four or five, proceed from behind forwards to the anterior part of the ball of the eye, where they divide into several twigs which perforate the sclerotica or are distributed to the tunica conjunctiva. The first enter, therefore, into the eye at the distance of two or three lines from the circumference of the cornea ; they then traverse the ciliary circle, and lose themselves, for the most part, in the great arterial circle of the iris (2369). Some of them, however, gain the anterior part of the choroid membrane, while others are dis- tributed to the iris. Branches which the Ophthalmic Artery gives off in its Course along the inner side of the Optic Nerve. 2374. The Posterior Ethmoidal Artery. This artery is of pmall size, does not always exist, and occasionally comes from the lachrymal or infra-orbitar. It directs itself towards the inner wall of the orbit, between the obiiquus oculi superior and adductor oculi; and enters into the posterior internal orbitar canal. It passes through its whole extent, furnishing very slender twigs to the membrane of the posterior ethmoid cells. It then enters 4.