442 ORGANS OF SENSATION. gitudinal fissure, it lines the corpus callosum, passing over thb arteries which cover it, and furnishes the veins of the inferior lon- gitudinal sinus with envelopes which are afterwards continued on the falx cerebri. Posteriorly, the arachnoid membrane is prolonged over the posterior lobes, envelopes some of the veins of the lateral si- nuses, is reflected over the upper surface of the cerebellum, sur- rounds the veins of the straight sinus, and part of those of the lateral sinuses, then covers the circumference and inferior surface of the cerebellum, between the two hemispheres of which it is isolated by its two surfaces over a greater or less extent. Anteriorly, the arachnoid membrane descends over the anterior lobes, and passes immediately from the one to the other inferiorly, | near the commissure of the optic nerves, without penetrating into the fissure which separates them. It equally covers the inferior surface of the olfactory nerves, for which it forms a small sheath near their extremity. It also furnishes one to each of the optic nerves; but this sheath is conical, accompanies them to a great distance, and is only reflected upon their fibrous envelope in the orbit. It descends farther around the infundibulum, and is ex^ panded over the pituitary body which separates it from the dura mater. It embraces the internal carotid arteries at their exit from the cavernous sinuses; it then passes under the cerebral protuber- ance, being separated from the pia mater in all the space that ex- ists between that protuberance and the commissure of the optic nerves, which is also separated from it, but by a less marked in- terval, opposite the protuberance and the grooves which limit the anterior prolongations laterally. It also gives sheaths to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh pairs of nerves. Lastly, it directs itself over the lateral parts of the cerebellum, the posterior prolon- gations, the pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, and first cervical nerves, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal marrow it- self, with which it is only comiected by a small number of cellular filaments, easily torn, and which in general scarcely exist, so that 'f it may be very easily detached by insufflation. On the sides of the » spinal marrow, the arachnoid membrane furnishes envelopes to each nerve, and to each serra of the ligamentum dentatum, which are reflected upon the dura mater when the nerve penetrates it, and when the ligamentum dentatum is inserted into it. It also fur- nishes an envelope to the vessels which creep upon its anterior and » posterior surfaces. Lastly, on arriving at the lower extremity of the spinal marrow, it terminates by a sort of narrow and very long canal, of a cylindri- cal form, which descends vertically in the middle of the bundles of the lumbar nerves, to the extremity of the sacral canal, where it is J reflected upon the dura mater. I It is by means of this canal, and of all the envelopes of the nerves I and vessels, that it may be conceived how the arachnoid membrane I covers in its whole extent the inner surface of the dura mater, and I gives it the smooth and polished appearance which it presents. It ■