OJIGANS OF CIRCULATION. actly moulded upon the heart. Its size is proportioned to the vo- lume of the organ which it incloses. 2237. Afiteriorly, the pericardium is covered by the pleura, ex- cepting in its middle part, where it corresponds to the separation of the mediastinum and to the thymus gland, and by intervention to the sternum and cartilages of the last true ribs of the left side, from which it is separated laterally by the fore part of the lungs. Posteriorly, it is of a very small extent, and rests upon the bronchi, oesophagus, and descending aorta. To the riijht and left, it is in connexion with the pleura.', the phrenic nerves (1737)> and the in- ternal surfaces of the lungs. Inferiorly, it corresponds to the apo- neurotic centre, and a little to the left, to the fleshy fibres of the diaphragm. 2238. The pericardium is composed of two membranes, an outer or fibrous, and an inner or serous. 2239. Fibrous Membrane. Intimately united below with the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, it ascends around the heart, which it embraces as far as its base, and there is continued to a greater or less distance upon the great trunk of the vessels, dividing into several distinct sheaths which aecompany them to a certain dis- tance. The pericardium, therefore, is not perforated to allow these vessels to pass, as many anatomists have alleged; but its 6brous lamina loses itself insensibly on their walls, and even seems to be united with them. These sheaths are eight in number; one, which is very short, for the vena cava superior; four, still shorter, for the pulmonary veins ; one which is indefinitely prolonged, for the aorta ; two for each branch of the pulmonary artery. The vena cava inferior penetrates into the pericardium through the centre of the diaphragm, and has no fibrous sheath. i'k.. This fibrous membrane corresponds directly to the pleurte by the greater part of its oviter surface. It is separated from them by a layer of more or less thick adipose tissue, excepting in its middle, where the contact and adhesion are more intimate. Its inner sur- face is lined in nearly its whole extent by the serous membrane, excepting when it is continued upon the vessels. 2240. This membrane presents the greatest resemblance to the dura mater in its structure, only it is not so thick. Its colour is pearly and aponeurotic. Its fibres are sometimes isolated, often . collected in distinct bundles, of variable thickness and breadth, irregularly disposed, and crossing each other in all directions. Hie greater number, however, ascend vertically and parallel to the axis of the pericardium, being continuous below with the phrenic apo- neurosis, and separating above upon the vessels. 2241. Serous Membrane. It has a much more extended course than the fibrous membrane, as, after lining its inner surface, it is reflected over the heart and covers it entirely, without, however, containing it in its interior, in which respect it is similar to the other ycrous membranes which we have already examined, as the arach-