ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. G78 opposite the internal mammary, and a little externally of the verte- bral. It ascends at lirst vertically upon the scalenus anticus, and, on arriving before the fifth vertebra, suddenly bends inwards, passes transversely behind the common carotid artery (2296), and goes in a tortuous manner to the thyroid body. 2405. Internal Branches. The inferior thyroid artery fur- nishes some internal branches of small size and indeterminate num- ber. They lose themselves by descending in the longus colli mus- cle, or are distributed to the oesophagus and trachea, which they accompany as far as the thorax. These latter are expanded upon the origin of the bronchi, and in the surrounding lymphatic gang- lia (2230), and anastomose with the bronchial arteries and the up- per intercostal. 2406. Ewternal Branches. The posterior and superior scapu- lar arteries often arise externally from the inferior thyroid; but tlic latter always furnishes in that direction a certain quantity of small branches, more or less slender, which ascend in the scalenus anti- cus and longus colli muscles, and another much larger branch which is of constant occurrence, and named 2407- Ascending Cervical Artery. {Art. cervicalis ascendens.) It ascends vipon the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, ar- rives at the rectus capitis anticus major, furnishes ramifications to both, and sends some, moreover, into the splenius muscle and lym- phatic ganglia of the neck. It anastomoses with the vertebral, posterior cervical, and occipital arteries. 2408. Arrived at the lower and outer part of the corresponding lobe of the thyroid body, the inferior thyroid artery divides into two large branches which separate from each other, pass behind the organ, and send it numerous twigs which subdivide in its sub- stance, anatomosing with the opposite inferior thyroid artery and with the two superior thyroids. It also sends some very small twigs to the mucous membrane of the trachea. OF THE INTERNAL MAMMAUY ARTERY. 2409- The Internal Mammary Artery, (Art. mamynaria in- terna J, arises from the subclavian at the same level as the inferior thyroid. It descends at first a little inwards before the scalenus anticus muscle, and externally of the phrenic nerve. It then enters the thorax, where it is situated on the outside of the pleura, along the posterior surface of the sterno-costal cartilages and internal in- tercostal muscles, whose direction it crosses. In descending, it gradually approaches the sternum, places itself between the trian- gularis sterni and the walls of the thorax, and, towards the xiphoid .cartilage, divides into two branches which are prolonged to a greater or less distance into the walls of the abdomen. 2410. Near its origin, the internal mammary artery sends a great