MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. (122), iinmccllately beneath the upper edge of the sphcno-maxillary fissure. These attachments are formed by aponeuroses, which ad- vance as far as the middle part of the muscle ; the internal maxillary artery often passes between them, in an interval filled with cellular tissue. From thence the muscle is directed outwards and back- wards, becoming gTadually thinner, and is inserted into a small fossa at the anterior surface of the neck of the condyle of the jaw, and into the fore part of the circumference of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage (579). 955. Its outer surface is in contact with the temporal muscle, and most commonly with the internal maxillary artery. The inner surface corresponds to the pterygoideus internus, the inferior max- illary nerve, the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxUlary articulation, the middle meningeal artery, and sometimes the in- ternal maxillary artery. The upper surface touches the upper part of the zygomatic fossa, and the deep temporal and masseteric nerves. 956. The outer pterygoid muscle draws forward the condyle of the jaw and the fibro-cartilage of the articulation, moving the chin in the opposite direction. When the two act together, the jaw is drawn directly forwards. 957. The pterygoid muscles are most easily dissected from within, but they may be exposed from without by removing the zygomatic process, if this has not been already done, then cutting the coronoid process near its base and drawing it away along with the temporal muscle; after this, saw through the lower jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter, cut the external lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation and draw it outwards; by this means the muscles will be so exposed, as to enable the dissector to clean them and examine their connexions. MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. OF THE LEVATOR PALPEBR^E SUPERIORIS. 958. This muscle is long, slender, thin, and depressed, much broader anteriorly than posteriorly, and accompanies the rectus oculi superior. It is attached, by short aponeuroses, to the me- ningeal sheath of the optic nerve, and by a small tendon to the lower surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, not far from the optic foramen, from which it is only separated by the rectus superior. From these origins, it is directed horizontally forwards, until it arrives at the upper part of the eye-ball, when it curves downwards, expanding and gradually losing its red colour, to descend as far as the fibro-cartilage of the upper eyelid, to the upper edge of which it is attached by a very thin and membraneous