388 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. OF THE ABDUCTOR POLLICIS PEDIS. 1440. This muscle is situated at the inner part of the sole of the foot. It is long, Hat, larger posteriorly than anteriorly, and arises from the posterior, internal, and inferior part of the calcaneum, by pretty distinct aponeuroses, especially above ; from an aponeuroti partition which separates it from the flexor brevis digitorum ; from the internal annular ligament of the tarsus, and from the posterior part of the plantar aponeurosis. From these different origins, the fleshy fibres proceed forwards and a little inwards, and are inserted successively and very obliquely upon the upper surface of a tendon which they conceal for some time, which afterwards appears be- neath them, unites with the inner portion of the flexor brevis (1454), and is attached to the lower and inner part of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, adhering strongly to the liga- ments by which it is connected with the first metatarsal bone. 1441. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, to which it intimately adheres behind.' The upper surface is covered by the accessorius and flexor brevis pollicis muscles, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, tibialis anticus, and tibialis posticus, and by the plantar vessels and nerves. 1442. It carries the great toe inwards, and bends it a little. OF THE FLEXOR UUEVIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. 1443. This is a flat elongated muscle, much narrower and thicker behind than before, where it is divided into four portions. It arises from the posterior and inferior part of the calcaneum, between the abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated by two aponeurotic partitions, from which, as well as from the plantar aponeurosis, some of its fibres also arise. From thence it directs itself forwards, increases at first in size, then diminishes, and at the middle of the sole of the foot, divides into four distinct bundles, the inner of which are the largest. These bundles successively cover each other from within outwards, and are each terminated by a tendon, which appears sooner above than below. These tendons advance beneath the heads of the metatar- sal bones, pass between the shps of the plantar aponeurosis, are engaged along with those of the flexor longus in the fibrous sheath placed under the toes, split to allow them to pass (1430), exactly in the same manner as those of the flexor sublimis of the fingers (1164), and are inserted, by two slips, upon the sides of the se- cond phalanx of each of the last four toes. 1444. Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, with