IQii PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. membrane, which descends from the anterior part of the sacrui over the corresponding surface of the coccyx. The rectum rest upon this Ugament. G24. Posterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament. This is the on! one admitted by some anatomists. It is triangular, flat, broad above than below, and of a pearly tint. It arises from the margil of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal, and descends over th' whole posterior surface of the coccyx, into which it is inserter; Posteriorly^ this ligament receives some aponeurotic fibres from tli glutaeus maximus, and is covered by the integument; anterior/ it covers the termination of the spinal portion of the arachnoi membrane, a portion of the sacrum, and almost the whole of th coccyx. From the above description it will be seen, that this ligame not only serves to strengthen the articulation, but also complet the sacral canal behind. Its superficial fibres are much long than the deep-seated, and do not intersect each other like the la ter, which are very short but strong, and extend from the apex the sacrum to the cornua of the first bone of the coccyx. 625. Fibro-cartilage. It differs from those placed between tl bodies of the vertebrae only in being thinner, and in not havin its centre so pulpy. Its laminas, which are as numerous be'' as before, are less so on the sides. 626. The pieces of which the coccyx is composed are connect by a similar fibro-cartilage; but ossification soon obliterates the especially in men, for in women this phenomenon is not observe until they have passed the period of conception. SACRO-ILIAC AIITICULATION. 627. This articvdation, which is also named the Sacro-Ili Syynphysis, is a synarthrosis formed by the union of the semiluna notched, slightly convex and uneven surfaces which we pointed ou in describing the lateral surface of the sacrum (375), and the * ternal surface of the ossa innominata (394). They are each i vested by a thin cartilaginous lamina, which is, however, a litt thicker on the side next the sacrum. These laminee do not coi into contact, there being placed between them a soft, yellowi substance of a nature little known, very different from synovia, a disseminated in isolated flakes. Their surface is granulated a rough in the adult only, for in children it is smooth, and ev seems covered by an indistinct synovial membrane. These t surfaces are kept together by four strong ligaments, together w' several irregular fibres. 628. Ctreat Sacro-sciatic Ligament. (Ligamenfum Sacro- chiaticum majus, seu Liyamentum tuberoso-sacrum). It is plac at the posterior and inferior part of the pelvis; it is of a triangu