282 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. bent upon itself. It arises posteriorly, by aponeurotic fibres, from ! the mastoidal groove of the temporal bone, and descends obliquely inwards and forwards, at first broader and thicker, but becoming | gradually thinner, and changing into a pretty strong rounded tendon, about two inches long, which passes through the lower part of the stylo-hyoideus, but sometimes merely behind it. At the hyoid bone it is received into a kind of aponeurotic ring, which is attached to its upper edge, and furnished internally with i a small synovial bursa, a line or two in breadth and of vari- i able length. Then a broad and thin aponeurosis is detached from the lower edge of the tendon, which here changes its direction, i and is bent upon itself. It descends before the mylo-hyoideus, | contracts firm adhesion to it, and is also attached to the body of the , hyoid bone. The muscle then ascends forwards and inwards to- ward the base of the jaw, becomes a second time fleshy and thick, approaches that of the opposite side, and is inserted into a fossa situated upon the sides of the symphysis of the chin, by aponeu- rotic fibres, which are sometimes interlaced witli those of the other muscle. 1003. Its external surface is covered posteriorly by the trache- lo-mastoideus, splenius and stcrno-mastoideus ; in the middle, by the maxillary gland, which is lodged in the angle formed by the tendon ; anteriorly, by the platysma myoides. Its inner surface ' lies upon the stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the external and internal carotid, the labial and lingual arteries, the internal jugular vein, the hypo-glossal nerve, the hyo- glossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles. 1004. This muscle depresses the under jaw, or raises the os hy- oides and carries it forward. Its posterior portion appears to assist in raising the upper jaw, by acting upon the skull. OF THE STYLO-HYOIDEUS. 1005. This is a long and slender muscle, placed at the upper and lateral part of the neck. An aponeurosis, which is consider- ably prolonged upon the fleshy fibres, attaches it to the styloid process, near its base, and is separated from the latter by a small synovial bursa. It descends thence inwards and forwards, follow- ing the direction of the posterior belly of the digastricus; it becomes broader, and then generally bifurcates, in a more or less distinct manner, to give passage to the tendon of that muscle. Uniting its two portions again, it is inserted at the lower part, and on the sides of the body of the hyoid bone, by short aponeurotic fibres. 1006. Its outer surface is covered by the digastric muscle. The inner is in relation with the external carotid, the labial and lingual arteries, the internal jugular vein, the stylo-glossus, stylo- pharyngcus, and hyo-glossus muscles, and the hypo-glossal nerve.