ACriVlC OKGANS OF LOCOMOTION. NUMBKll AND NOMEKCLATUllE OF THE MUSCLES. 798. As most of the muscles are in pairs, and there arc hut very few single, it might be supposed that the number of names would be much less. Yet the greatest confusion prevails in their nomenclature; for there is not one among them that has not received more than one name, and some have as many as a dozen.* There is much difference of opinion as to the number of the muscles. 8ome authors make them amount to four hundred and more ; M. Chaussier admits only three hundred and sixty-eight. Some have been named after their uses ; for example, the dia- phragm, buccinator, extensors, supinators, pronators, flexors, levators, depressors, constrictors, &c. But it sometimes happens, that an error has been committed in this respect, and besides, a muscle may have several vises at once ; thus the levator anguli scapulae, in raising the posterior angle of the bone, depresses the anterior angle. Other muscles have derived their name from their position ; of which kind are the interspinales, interossei, palpebralis, pectoralis, subclavius, popliteus, ulnaris, iliacus, temporalis, &c. But fre- quently, there arc several different muscles in each region. There are others whose names are indicative of their /or???, such as the trapezius, quadratus lumborum, scrratus, digastricus, del- toid, scalenus, rhomboideus, pyramidalis, triangularis sterni, &c. Some again are named on account of their resemblance to some ob- ject ; the splenius, which is supposed to resemble the spleen; the lumbricales, which look like earthworms ; the soleus, in which there is recognised the appearance of a sole or flounder. Others bear a name which has reference to their dimensions^ their extent^ or vo- lume ; the flexor longus digitoruni, gracilis, vastus externus, su- pinator brevis, pectoralis major, he.; or to their direction; ob- liqui abdominis, recti capitis, orbicularis oris, he.; or to their com- position ; semiteudinosus, semimembranosus, triceps, biceps, com- plexus, Sec. ; and even to their numerical order as the interossei, which have been designated Jirst, second, third, &c. ; or to their relative situation, which has caused them to be called anterior, superior, superficial, deep, &c. Many muscles have been designated according to the various points of the skeleton to which they arc attached, as the sterno- cleido-mastoideus, occipito-frontalis, omo-hyoidcus, stylo-hyoideus, hyo-glossus, &c. It is on this circumstance that M. Chaussier's nomenclature is founded. The nomenclature to be employed here, is that in common use in Britain. It is founded on all the dif- ferent considerations mentioned above. • Tliin sufficiently ai-<;oiints for Ur. Sclingor of Fmth having cniploycil a tiiick octavo volume to iiiinivcl these comjilieated syiioiiyiiies.