.MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 387 cealcd amon"- its fleshy fibres until'opposite the ankle joint. There, it becomes nearly horizontal, enters a groove formed behind the in- ferior extremity of the tibia (509), and the posterior surface of the lastragalus (519), where it is kept down by a hgamentous sheath [ hned^by a synovial bursa, which accompanies it under the arch of '. the calcaneum in a particular depression; it is there placed to the oouter side of the tendon of the flexor communis digitorum. This ^tendon, which was at first broad, becomes narrower as it leaves th6 tl fleshy fibres, passes over that of the flexor communis, communi- ccates with it (1430), proceeds over the inner edge of the foot, be- t tween the two portions of the flexor brevis polUcis, passes between t the two sesamoid bones of the first articulation of the metatarsal t bones and phalanges, opposite which it enlarges, to penetrate into t the fibrous sheath of the great toe, which is similar to that of the t thumb (1172), in which it is enveloped by a synovial membrane. lAt the entrance of this sheath, it contracts, presents traces of a I longitudinal division, and is expanded at its extremity, which is I attached to the lower and posterior part of the last phalanx of the 1 great toe. 1437- In the leg, the posterioi- surface of this muscle is covered I by the soleus and the tibial aponeurosis. The anterior is ap- ] pUed upon the fibula, the tibialis posticus and flexor longus com- j I munis muscles, the interosseous ligament and the tibia. Its tendon i is surrounded by synovial membranes behind the ankle joint and I under the great toe, and by the flexor brevis pollicis under the sole I of the foot. 1.1438. This muscle bends the second phalanx of the great toe 1 upon the first, and the latter upon the corresponding metatarsal I bone. It increases the concavity of the sole of the foot, and ex- I tends the foot and the leg upon each other. . 1439- When dissecting the muscles of the posterior part of the 1 leg, extend it upon the thigh, and bend the foot on it, then make an incision along the middle of the back of the leg from between the condyles of the femur to the heel, and dissect off" the skin from the surface of the fascia, which is itself to be removed to show the gastrocnemius; this muscle being examined, it is to be removed by cutting through the heads of it about two inches below their ori- gin from the femur, when the popliteus and soleus will be brought into view, also the plantaris, if present. The next stage of the dissection is, after examining the connexion of the gastrocnemius and soleus to the tendon AchiUis, to detach the soleus, which, with the gastrocnemius, is to be thrown aside. The deep muscles may now be examined by removing the thin I layer of fascia which covers their surface. At first sight only two I muscles are seen, the flexor longus digitorum internally, and the I flexor longus pollicis externally; this is because the tibialis posti- ' cus IS covered by the flexor longus digitorum as far as the ankle I jomt: the farther examination of these muscles must be delayed until the dissection of the sole of the foot.