ORGANS 01'' SENSATION. 508 triangular form. It is closed by a particular membrane {memhm- na tympani secundaria), which is not parallel to that of the tym- panum. In the first months of gestation it is directed almost an- teriorly. Towards the period of birth, it is already turned oblique- ly backwards by the development of the tympanum. But after-a wards, it incUnes outwards, and a little downwards, from the effect of the formation of the mastoid cells, and of the growth of the pro- cess which contains them. 2009- Superior Wall. There is observed in it a certain num- ber of porosities giving passage to small blood-vessels, which form a communication between the dura mater and the mucous membrane of the tympanum. It has very Uttle thickness, and presents nothing else remarkable. 2010. Inferior Wall. There is seen in it the glenoid fissure (I73), through which issue the long process of the malleus and the chorda tympani (1872), and by which there enter the anterior mus- cle of the malleus and some blood-vessels. 2011. Posterior Wall. In the upper part of this wall, there oc- curs a short scabrous canal, not lined with a layer of compact tis- sue, like the other bony canals, directed obliquely backwards and downwards, placed above the short branch of the incus, with a triangular free orifice, not closed by a membrane. This canal leads to the Mastoid Cells, which are formed in the interior of the mastoid process (175), are developed in the direct ratio of age, and vary in number and figure. Those of the circumference are in general of the same size as the cellules of the diploe of the rest of the temporal bone; but, at the centre, there are three, four, or five much larger, and even sometimes confounded together so as to form a single cavity. They all communicate with each other; but are separated fi:om the diploic cellules of the bone by a pro- longation of the mucous membrane of the tympanum. Beneath the aperture of the mastoid cells, behind the fenestra ovalis, and at the lower part of the prominence formed by the aqueduct of Fallopius (2008), is a small hollow conical eminence, more or less prominent, called the Pyramid {^Eminentia pyra- midalis). Its summit is directed forwards, and gives passage to the tendon of the muscle of the stapes, the fleshy body of which is contained in a canal occupying the centre of the eminence. Under the base of the pyramid is a small aperture which com- municates with the aqueduct of Fallopius, and through which the upper twig of the vidian nerve penetrates into the tympanum (1872). Sometimes also the summit of the pyramid is connected with the promontory by one or two bony filaments. 2012. Anterior Wall. It presents a small, thin, projecting bony plate, curved upon itself from beneath upwards, and com- monly named the Processus cochleariformis. This plate separ- ates in its whole length two canals, situated in the retiring angle of the temporal bone, which receives the spine of the sphenoid