OF THE MEMURANA DECIDUA, OH SPONGY CHORION. Si) I through the Fallopian tube, it lines all the interior of the uterus, but when the former descends it pushes the membrana decidua be- fore it which is thus made to affect the disposition of serous mem- branes, there being one part which surrounds the ovum, called the decidua reflewa, and another part which lines the interior of the uterus, called the decidua vera. The point at which the decidua reflexa is reflected upon the ovum is where the placenta is fixed to the uterus. OF THE CHORION. 3063. The chorion which is the outermost of the proper mem- branes of the foetus, is at first stronger than the amnios, but at the latter period of pregnancy it becomes weaker. Its outer sur- face corresponds to the decidua reflexa, and its inner to the amnios from which it is separated at the early period of gestation by a gelatinous fluid called the false ivafers {liquor chorii.) It surrounds the ovum, covers the foetal surface of the placenta from which it is reflected upon the umbilical cord, which it sur- rounds as far as the umbilicus of the foetus where it is continued into the dermis of the latter. OF THE AMNIOS. 3064. The Amnios is the innermost membrane of the ovum. Except at the early period of gestation (when, as has been said, it is separated from the chorion by the false waters,) its outer surface is in contact with the inner surface of the chorion, to which it feebly adheres, except opposite the placenta, where the adiiesion is more intimate. The amnios surrounds the foetus, is continued upon the foetal surface of the placenta, from whence it is reflected upon the umbi- lical cord, where it surrounds that part of the chorion which was also reflected from the placenta, and as the chorion is continuovis with the dermis of the foetus, so the amnios is continuous with the epidermis. In the interior of the amnios there is a fluid {liquor omnii), in which the foetus floats: its source or uses are not fully known. OF THE PLACENTA. 3065. The placenta is a spongy vascular mass like a cake, from six to eight inches in diameter, about an inch thick in the middle, and some lines at the circumference. It adheres by one surface to the uterus and by the other is connected to the foetus by means of the umbilical cord. The uterine surface is lobulat-