DIMENSIONS OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE. 366. The Spheno-mawillary Fossa. This fossa, which is deep and narrow, and is continued behind the orbit, is formed by the splienoid bone behind, the upper maxillary bone before, and by the palate bone to the inside. The sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary, and pterygo-maxillary fissures terminate in it, and seem to run into each other; there are moreover observed five apertures in it, which are, posteriorly and from above downwards, the anterior orifices of the foramen rotundum and of the vidian and pterygo-palatine canals ; to the inside, the spheno-palatine hole, and at the lower part, the upper orifice of the posterior palatme canal. OF THE llESPECTIVE DIMENSIONS OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE. 367. The two organs of taste and smell occupy the greater part of the face; the more these two senses are developed, the greater size does it acquire, and this is at the expense of the cranium, which is so much the larger compared with the face, the greater the development of the brain is. It is also observed, that anteriorly the face has not a vertical direction, it being sensibly inclined forward. It is obvious, that the more the skuU is increased in size, the less marked ought this inclination to appear; and that the larger the cavities for lodging the organs of taste and smell are, the greater, on the other hand, must be the obliquity of the face. Now, as the nature of each individual depends in a great mea- sure upon the relative energy of each of his functions, and the senses in question are those of the brutal appetites ; as the brain, on the other hand, is the seat of the intellectual faculties, there results that the form of the head, and the proportions of the two parts of which it is composed, may form an indication of the general con- stitution in this respect, and this so much the more distinctly the more that it has a given magnitude, and a determinate destination; that it has to lodge, on the one hand, the centre of the sensations and volitions, and, on the other, the organs of smell, mastication, and taste; that the skull and face are respectively appropriated to this twofold purpose, and that the given volume of the one cannot be diminished without inducing a corresponding augmentation of the other. We see, in fact, that the animals whose muzzle is most elongat- ed, are of all others the most stupid, of which kind are cranes, geese, and snipes ; while, on the other hand, a high degree of in- tellect is attributed to those which have a very distinct forehead, such as the elephant and owl, the latter of which the Greeks gave as a companion to the goddess of wisdom. In man, who has re- ceived the noble prerogative of intellect, who has to exercise his mental more than his physical faculties, the capacity of the skull IS much greater than that of the face. In reptiles and many fishes, the mouth alone, with its two enor-