OF THE TRUNK OF THE VENA CAVA SUPEIIIOU. 745 (242G), find unites with another considerable vein, which com- mences upon the lateral region of the head, where it communi- cates with the lateral sinus of the dura mater by the mastoid foramen, and which descends before the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrfe, sending numerous anastomosing twigs to the trunk of the vein itself, and receiving many twigs from the neigh- bouring muscles. After this union, the vertebral vein descends, beside the artery, between the rectus capitis anticus major and scalenus anticus mus- cles, passes on the left side before the subclavian artery, and on the right, behind it and the recurrent nerve, to open posteriorly and inferiorly into the vena innominata. 2718. Right Superior Intercostal Vein. It is sometimes want- ing, and is always smaller than the left. When it exists, it com- mences by branches distributed in the two superior intercostal spaces, and afterwards united into a single trunk, which issues from the thorax by its superior circumference, and opens into the poste- rior and inferior part of the vena innominata, near the vertebral. 2719. Left Superior Intercostal Vein. It is always larger and especially longer than the right. It commences in the eighth, se- venth or sixth intercostal space, by some twigs which partly anas- tomose with the vena-azygos and vena semi-azygos, and ascends vertically behind the pleura, on the side of the bodies of the ver- tebras, successively receiving branches from each intercostal space. Towards the third vertebra, it presents a third curve, which re- ceives three or four veins which descend from the two first inter- costal spaces ; it then passes behind the lung and aorta, a little ex- ternally of the latter, and there, the Left Bronchial Vein discharges itself into it. After this it issues from the thorax and opens into the left vena innominata. OF THE TRUNK OF THE VENA CAVA SUPERIOn. 2720. Formed by the union of the two venas innominatas which carry all the blood of the head, superior extremities, and a portion of the thorax, the vena cava srtperior commences opposite the car- tilage of the first rib, a little above the arch of the aorta,- and des- cends to the left and forwards as far as the base of the pericardium, from which it receives a fibrous sheath more or less prolonged upon its walls. It then enters into that membraneous sac, descends ver- tically to the right of the aorta, from which it is a Uttle separated, is invested by the serous membrane of the pericardium, and opens into the right auricle of the heart, behind its free appendage, a little above the vena cava inferior, and confounded with the latter in a greater or less extent. 2721. The vena cava superior corresponds anteriorly to the thymus gland and cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum ; pos- teriorly, to the superior right pulmonary vein and aorta; to the