PASSIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 86 certain individuals, they are partly effaced; and skulls have even been alleged to have been seen, in which there were no sutures at all, of which Bartholin* mentions several examples. Some years ago, I presented to the medical faculty of Paris a skull in which the coronal suture was obliterated on one side. The wor- mian bones are sometimes so numerous in the lambdoid suture, as to produce the appearance of a double suture in that place. Vesahus and Eustachius saw the sagittal suture separating the occipital bone into two portions ; and Ruysch observed a subject in which it extended over the occipital and frontal bones. Van Swieten-|- had a skull in which the same suture was an inch broad at the top of the head, and contracted before and behind. 292. Tlie outer surface of the cranium is divided into four re- gions, as follows : 293. Upper Region. This region is of an oval form, and is limited anteriorly by the nasal protuberance, posteriorly by the outer occipital pi'otuberance, and laterally by a curved line which extends over the frontal and parietal bones. There is observed upon it, anteriorly and in the middle line, the suture which unites the two pieces of the frontal bone, or merely the remains of it. On the sides of the latter, are the frontal protuberances, "which surmount the superciliary arches, and are situated beneath the fronto-parietal suture. In the middle part of the latter is seen the termination of the sagittal suture; on the lateral parts, on which are observed the parietal holes behind, and more to the outside, a broad smooth surface, from which rises the parietal pro- tuberance. This suture terminates at the angle formed by the union of the two branches of the lambdoid suture, which proceeds downwards and backwards toward the temporal bone, and presents in the interval, above, a slight depression corresponding to the upper angle of the occipital bone, and below, the external protu- berance of that bone. This region of the skull is almost entirely covered by the occipital and frontal muscles, and by the tendinous expansion by which they are united. It is in general smooth and even, and presents no other apertures than the parietal holes. 294. Inferior Region. This region is free in its posterior half; in the anterior, it is articvdated with the bones of the face. It extends longitudinally backwards from the nasal notch to the ex- ternal occipital protuberance, and is limited on the sides by an ir- regular undulated line, which proceeds from that eminence to the mastoid process, from tlience directing itself between the glenoid cavity and the meatus auditorius externus, toward the base of the Zygomatic process, to be continued into the ridge, which sepa- rates the temporal region of the sphenoid bone into two parts, and to terminate at the external orbitar process. The objects compre- * Aiiutnmc qvartum renomla, p. 701. Lugdmi, 1C77. f Coiimcut. T. I. p. 377.