20^2 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. bone, the other is stretched between the acromion and coracoid pro- cesses. 652. Coracoid Ligament, (Ligamentutn sc.apulce proprium posterim). This hgament is wanting, when the notch which it completes is converted into a hole by osseous substance; in some cases it is double. It is a thin and flat fasciculus, narrower at the middle than at its extremities, broader posteriorly than anteriorly, with close aponeurotic fibres, which are in part continuous with, those of the coraco-clavicular ligament. It is attached on the one hand to the base of the coracoid process, on the other to the pos- terior part of the notch. The supra-scapular nerve passes almost always under this ligament, above which creep the vessels of the same name. 653. Acromio-coracoid Ligament, {Ligamentum scapulcE pro- prium anterius). It is triangular, broad, thin, and flat, and stretches transversely between the coracoid process and the acromion, broad- er at the end next the former than at the other. It is indeed at- tached to the whole extent of the outer edge of the coracoid pro- cess by two fasciculi, at first separated by cellular tissue, and af- terwards united into a common bundle, which becomes narrower and thicker as it approaches the summit of the acromion into which it is inserted. One of the two roots of this bundle is anterior, shorter, broader and thinner, and directed transversely outwards; the other, which is posterior, longer, narrower, and thicker, is di- rected obliquely backwards and outwards. Both are, however, connected by a slight fibrous membrane. The upper surface of the acromio-coracoid ligament is covered by the clavicle and the deltoid muscle; the inferior covers the su- pra-spinatus muscle. Its anterior edge is continuous with a pretty dense cellular lamina, subjacent to the deltoid muscle, and applied over the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles. This ligament completes the vault formed by the acromion and coracoid process above the head of the humerus. SHOULDER JOINT. 654. The bony parts which concur to form this articulation (scapulo-humeral) are, on the one hand, the head of the humerus (446), and, on the other, the glenoid cavity of the scapula (431). Both are covered with diarthrodial cartilages, thicker at the centre of the former, and at the circumference of the latter than in the rest of their extent. It is also to be remarked, that the depth and ex- tent of the glenoid cavity are not proportional to the size of the head of the humerus, so that a portion of this eminence is always without the cavity, and corresponds to the articular capsule. 655. Capsular or Orlncular Ligament. {Ligamentum capsu- lare magnum humeri.) It has tlic form of a hollow conoid, trun- cated, tile summit of which embraces the contour of the glenoid