810 ORGANS OF GENERATION. behind the umbilical artery, and before the lower part of the ureter. Ihen arriving under the inferior and posterior region of the blad- der, It ai)proaches its fellow, is flattened in a remarkable manner, becomes more adherent, and changes its direction so as to proceed almost horizontally from behind forwards, and from without in- wards, along the inner side of the vesiculse seminales. At the base of the prostate gland, it receives a canal from the vcsiculye seminales, and is continued into the ejaculatory duct. t 2981. The vas deferens, from being rather slender near its ori- gin,i;and so long as it is contained in the spermatic cord, increases in size on passing through the inguinal ring, and becomes twice as large along the vesiculfE seminales. At its termination, it resumes Its original size. With respect to its dimensions, no duct has so small an internal diameter. Its cavity is-scarccly capable of admit- ting a hair from the epididymis to within the abdomen ; but near the vesiculac seminales it sensibly increases. Its walls, which are of a dull white colour, have an almost cartilaginous consistence, and are very thick. Although it is probable, from analogy, that they are lined by a mucous membrane, it has not been actually de- monstrated. OF THE VESICULJE SEMINALES. PROSTATE, AND DUCTUS EJACULATOIUI. OF THE VESICULiE SEMINALES. 2982. The VesiculcB Seminales are two small membraneous bags which form a reservoir for the semen. They are placed un- der the bladder, before the insertion of the ureters, above the rec- tum, behind the prostate gland, externally of the vasa deferentia, and internally of the levatores ani muscles; they are of an irregular conical form, flattened from above downwards, tubercular and bulged in their whole surface, immersed in a mass of adipose cellular tissue, traversed by a great number of arteries and veins, have no communication with each other, and are directed obliquely from without inwards, and a little from above downwards. Wide- ly separated behind, and only disjoined by the vasa deferentia be- fore, they circumscribe between them a triangular space, in which the bladder is in contact with the rectum (2948). Their posterior extremity or fundus is a rounded cul-de-sac of considerable breadth; their anterior extremity or neck is elongated, narrow, and some- times concealed by the base of the prostate. It terminates by a very short canal which opens into the vas deferens. 2983. The vesiculje seminales have generally in the adult a length of two inches and a half, a breadth of six or seven lines to- %vards their fundus, and a thickness of two or three lines. 2984. The interior of the vcsicula' seminales seems, at first sight, to form a cavity composed of numerous cellules, separated by