467 OF THE FACIAL NERVE. dura mater on the sides of the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone. It then enters the cavernous sinus, in the interior of which it is accompanied to a certain distance by the arachnoid membrane, which has furnished it with an envelope from its com- mencement. It is situated externally of the internal carotid artery, with which it is connected by a pretty dense cellular tissue, and is separated from the blood of the sinus by a fold of the internal mem- brane of the latter. In the sinus itself, it is directed outwards and downwards, and acquires a reddish tint and a somewhat larger vo- lume. In passing above the orifice of the carotid canal, it receives from behind forwards two or three grayish and soft filaments which come from the superior cervical ganglion. I673. The nerve of the sixth pair enters into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. The dura mater afibrds it a particular aperture above that of the ophthalmic vein. It passes between the two pos- terior fasciculi of the rectus externus of the eye, along with the third pair and nasal nerves, with which it is pretty intimately con- nected. Then, prolonging itself along the occular surface of that muscle, it loses itself entirely in its substance by several filaments which penetrate it in a divergent manner. OF THE SEVENTH PAIU OF NERVES. OF THE PORTIO DURA OF THE SEVENTH PAIR. (Nervus Facialis.) 1674. The real origin of this nerve is distinguished with great difficulty, and it cannot be distinctly traced from a remote part of the spinal marrow. It becomes apparent immediately behind the posterior edge of the annular protuberance, in its angle of union with the restiform body, some lines to the outside of the preceding, one line only before the portio mollis. It forms at first a flat, very white, soft cord, not enveloped by neurilema, and adhering for some time, by its upper edge, to the crus of the c6re- bellum. Some very slender filaments then join it, and seem to be detached from the portio mollis. Their connexion with- the lat^ ter nerve is seldom evident, but they always form a distinct origin between those of the two nerves themselves. 1675. After becoming free, the facial nerve is invested with a neurilema, and continues to proceed outwards, upwards, and for- wards, in a sort of groove on the portio mollis, with which it pene- trates into the internal auditory canal, but afterwards leaves it to pass into the aqueduct of Fallopius (180). It passes through this aqueduct in its whole extent, and issues from it by the stylo-mas- toid hole to be spread out upon the face. . "I "76- Opposite the hiatus FaMopii, the upper filament of the vidian nerve is applied from behind forwards upon the fiicial nerve,