ORGANS OF SENSATION. 518 four twigs, which may be designated by their numerical names, counting from within outwards. The Jirat, whicli is smaller thau the others, follows the inferior surface of the flexor brevis pollicis, which receives some filaments from it, proceeds along the lower and inner part of the great toe, and loses itself upon it, sending at the same time some filaments upwards. The second, which is directed horizontally forwards, between the first two metatarsal bones, at first above, then below the flexor brevis digitorum, whicli receives several filaments from it, as does also the first lumbricalis muscle, separates opposite the first metatarso-phalangeal articulation, into two secondary twigs, one of which is distributed on the outer side of the first toe, while the other is spread out upon the inner side of the second, sending vipwards some filaments which anastomose with those of the internal and deep nerve of the back of the foot (1849), and which themselves anastomose by arches in the pulp of the toes. The third, which is placed between the second and third metatarsal bones, gives filaments to the second lumbricalis I muscle, and is distributed upon the second and third toes, precisely in the same manner as the preceding twig. Lastly, the fourth advances between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and is dis- tributed to the corresponding toes. 185C. Of'the External Plantar Nerve. This proceeds oblique- ly forwards and outwards, between the flexor brevis digitorum and accessorius muscles, to which it gives filaments, and in the groove situated near tlie large tuberosity of the calcaneum. Arrived at the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, it divides into two branches, the one superficial, the other deep. But be- fore this, it generally sends a pretty large twig to the abductor mi- nimi digiti. 1857. Superficiasl Branch. It advances under the outer edge of the foot, and soon divides into two twigs ; an outer, which gives a filament to the flexor minimi digiti, and loses itself on the cor- responding edge of the little toe; and an inner, which directs it- self between the last two metatarsal bones, gives a filament to the fourth lumbricalis, communicates with the preceding twig, and sub- divides on the contiguous sides of the fourth and fifth toes. 1858. Deep Branch. At its commencement it furnishes a fila- ment to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and ascends inwards and forwards between the interossei muscles and adductor pollicis pe- dis, forming a kind of arch, the posterior side of which does not give off filaments, while the anterior sends some to the interossei and transversus pedis. OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF GANGLIA, OR OF THE GREAT SYMPATHETIC NERVES. GKNEKAL OKSERVATIOKS. 1859. Ganglia are small nervous centres, from whose circnm-