750 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. auricle of the heart by an aperture which is bounded by the Eus^ tachian valve (2252). 2738. The branches which the vena cava inferior receives in this course are the middle sacral vein, the lumbar veins, the right sper- matic vein, and the renal, capsular, hepatic, and inferior phrenic veins. 2739. Middle Sacral Vein. It ascends upon the middle part of the anterior surface of the coccyx and sacrum, and opens into the vena cava, in the angle formed by the union of the two common iliac veins. 2740. Lumbar Veins, (VencB Iwnhales). They are four on each side, and commence each by an abdominal branch and a dor- sal branch, corresponding to the branches of the lumbar arteries (2554). Their first roots anastomose with those of the last intercostal veins, and of the epigastric and circumflex iliac veins. The dorsal branches communicate, by the intervertebral foramina, with the vertebral sinuses. These branches unite and form a trunk which directs itself transversely, from without inwards, along the lumbar arteries, between the bodies of the vertebrae and the psoas muscle. The lumbar veins of the left side pass under the aorta, and are in consequence longer than the right. Before the vertebral column, those of the same side communicate with each other by means of several vertical twigs. 2741. Spermatic Veins, (Vena; spermaticce). A little larger than the corresponding arteries, the spermatic veins differ in their origin in the two sexes. 2742. In the male, they commence by a plexus which is named the Sperinatic, the roots of which are expanded in the testicle, and issue from it for the most part through the tunica albuginea, before the head of the epididymis. None of these roots pass from the testicle to the epididymis; only, towards the small extremity of the latter, a pretty large branch issues from the testicle, extends along the upper part of the epididymis, and contributes to form the plexus, the roots of which then become more numerous and larger, and anastomose with the roots of the dorsal veins of the penis, and of the vesical, internal pudic and other neighbouring veins. Afterwards, the plexus collects into four or five branches which ascend externally of the tunica vaginahs, enveloping the vas de- ferens, and anastomosing frequently with each other. These branches then pass through the inguinal ring, unite and form a single trunk which directs itself inwards and upwards, running along the psoas muscle, as far as the upper part of the pelvis. There, the spermatic veins divide a second time to form another plexus under the kidney. This plexus has been named the Corpus pompiniforme. It is augmented by a great number of Adipose veins, which come transversely from the mass of fat surrounding the kidneys, and which communicate frequently together. Some of its twigs also come from the mesocolon and mesentery, where they anastomose with those of the vena portte. S