OF THE DURA MATER. 433 i.teum of that cavity. This prolongation presents several apertures !;for the passage of vessels and nerves which enter the orbit. 1562. The membrane then extends into the middle lateral fos- vsffi of the base of the cranium, to which it adheres but feebly ; but, ; on approaching the sides of the body of the splienoid bone, it fur- ; nishes first an envelope to the superior and inferior maxillary nerves lin the bony canals by which they pass out of the cranium ; it also i gives one to the middle meningeal artery, and concurs to form the I cavernous sinus and various canals. One of the latter is for the ; third pair; it commences a Kttle before the posterior clinoid pro- icess; it is fibrous in its whole circumference, and invested by tthe arachnoid coat at the commencement of its course, but the lat- ; ter afterwards leaves it to be reflected over the nerve, and there is mo longer perceived a complete fibrous canal, but the lamina of the I dura mater alone, which forms the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, Lis seen externally: internally, the nerve is separated from the sinus i itself only by a thin and apparently cellular membrane. Another (canal belongs to the nerve of the fourth pair ; it is a little higher ithan the preceding, and much narrower, and, like it, is fibrous and I lined by the arachnoid membrane in the first part of its course; I afterwards, it is in like manner only formed by a single lamina of I the di^ra mater applied externally upon the nerve, which is sepa- I rated from-the rest of the sinus by a thin and transparent mem- ibrane. Lastly, a little farther back and opposite the upper edge (of the petrous process, the dura mater forms a canal for the nerve • of the fifth pair, consisting of two laminae : the upper of these la- 1 minae is attached to the posterior clinoid process, and is continued (over the upper edge of the petrous process; the other is placed I between the nerve and the cavernous sinus, and becomes so thin as : to be converted into a cellular lamella, which is prolonged inter- 1 nally of the ophthalmic branch. As it advances, the nerves of I the third pair, fourth pair and ophthalmic branch of the fifth, are each engaged in a new portion of entirely fibrous canal, which is • afforded them by the prolongation of the dura mater passing from t the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit. 1563. On the middle of the upper surface of the petrous pro- c cess, the dura mater covers the superior filament of the vidian I nerve, and may easily be detached from it. 1564. It then adheres pretty strongly to the upper edge of the petrous process and to the quadrilateral plate of the sphenoid bone. It descends from thence into the basilar groove, and is intimately I attached to the occipital bone over the whole circumference of the ^ ^ramen magnum. A little laterally, it presents for the nerve of ' ® ^^'xth pair, a hole which is not succeeded by a canal, and which consequently transmits it into the cavernous sinus. The arach- noid membrane descends in it as far as that sinus, which it closes, ' and is then rtflected upon the nerve. Farther on, and upon the ^T^^T^ '■-"'■f^ce of the petrous process, the dura mater penetrates ofTP^ii ^"ditorius internus, seems to enter the aqueduct * »'iopius, but cannot be followed into the foramina which are tra- 2 F