MUSCLES OV THE NECK. 1007. It raises the hyoicl bone, and consequently the larynx, .carrying it at the same time backwards and to a side. When the -two muscles act together, the hyoid bone is raised directly and • carried backwards. OF THE MYLO-HYOIDEUS. 1008. This muscle is broad, thin, flat, and of a truncated trian- gular form. It is situated at the upper and fore part of the neck, behind the lower jaw. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the internal oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, between the last molar tooth and the mental process. Its anterior fibres, which I are very short, proceed obliquely downwards and inwards, and are incorporated with those of the opposite muscle, along a sort of tendinous raphe, which descends from the symphysis of the chin to the hyoid bone, and degenerates below into a thin aponeuro- sis united to that of the digastric muscle. The other fibres, which become longer the farther back they are situated, are less and less oblique, so as ultimately to become nearly vertical; they terminate by aponeuroses, at the lower and fore part of the body of the hyoid bone. 1009- The outer surface of the mylo-hyoideus, which inclines downwards and forwards, is covered by the digastricus and platys- ma myoides, and by the sub-maxillary gland. The inner covers the genio-hyoideus, genio-glossus, and hyo-glossus muscles, the sub-lingual gland, the duct of the sub-maxiUary gland, the pro- longation of it, and the lingual nerve. 1010. It raises the hyoid bone and carries it forward, or de- presses the lower jaw. 1011. This muscle is dissected by removing the parts, covering its outer surface, (1009) whilst its fibres are stretched. OF THE GENIO-HYOIDEUS. 1012. This muscle is situated behind the preceding. It is thin, short, flat, narrower above than below. It arises from a small ten- don inserted into the lower genial process (249), and descends backwards to be attached to the middle of the anterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. Its anterior surface, which is in- clined downwards, is covered by the mylo-hyoideus; the posterior 18 applied upon the genio-glossus and hyo-glossus. Its inner edge 18 contiguous to that of the opposite side, and often incorporated Wltu it. 1013. The action of this muscle is to raise the hyoid bone, car- rymg It forward, or to depress the jaw. 1014. Cut through the rnpM by which the two mylo-hyoidei muscles are jomcd to each other, and detach them on each side to