ORGANS OF SENSATION. exit is very distant from that of their origin. The posterior root of each of them forms a gangUon in the intervertebral foramen, and then unites with the anterior, to form a common trunk placed be- tween the notches of the vertebra?, and presently divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. OF THE FIRST LUMBAR NERVE. 1794. Posterior Branch. Larger than those of the other lum- bar nerves, it is directed backwards between the transverse processes of the first two vertebrae of that region, gives some filaments in- ternally to the multifidus spinae muscle, perforates the inferior fleshy mass of the sacro-lunibalis and longissimus dorsi muscles (831), leaves several twigs for them, creeps under the united apo- neuroses of the latissimus dorsi, obliquus abdominis internus and serratus posticus inferior, traverses these aponeuroses towards the iliac crest, and finally ramifies in the integuments of the upper part of the hip. 1795. Anterior Branch. It receives a communicating filament from the lumbar ganglia, and another filament from the twelfth dor- sal pair (I792). In then proceeds forwards and inwards under the origins of the psoas magnus (1290), sends a twig to the anterior branch of the second lumbar nerve (1797)? and throws itself into the lumbar plexus. OF THE SECOND LUMBAR NERVE.. 1796. Posterior Branch. It is a little smaller than the preced- ing, and also passes between the transverse processes; it sends twigs inwards to the mvdtifidus spin^ muscle, traverses the mass of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus, gives it some filaments, creeps in the same manner under the lumbar aponeurosis, perforates it toward the iliac crest, and is expanded by a great number of sub- divisions in the integuments of the upper and back part of the thigh. 1797- Anterior Branch. It communicates with the lumbar ganglia, the anterior branches of the first and second pairs of the lumbar region, and enters into the composition of the lumbo-abdo- minal plexus, OF THE THIRD LUMBAR NERVE. 1798. Posterior Branch. Still smaller than that of the second, it is distributed precisely in the same manner, and also ramifies in the integuments of the upper and back part of the thigh. 1799. Anterior Branch. It communicates with those of the