MUSCLES or THE BACK. 253 OF THE THACHELO-MASTOIDEUS. 846. The Trachelo-Mastoideiis (Compleonus Minor), is situated externally of the complexus, at the back part and on the sides of the neck. It is long, slender, flattened, broader above than below, and arises from the last four transverse processes of the neck, and three or four of the back, by tendinous and fleshy tongues, which are al- most immediately incorporated. These small tendons, which vary very much in size, are the more distinct the lower they are. The fleshy fibres by which they are succeeded, form by their union a bundle which ascends vertically, becoming broader, to the mastoid process, behind which it is inserted by a flat tendon which existed for some time previously in the substance of the muscle. The muscle is frequently intersected by aponeuroses, varying much in their number, direction, and position ; or it receives, in the middle of its inner edge, a fleshy band which is sent off" by the longissimus dorsi. 847- The posterior surface of the trachelo-mastoideus, which inclines outwards, is covered above by the splenius, and below by the transversalis colli, with which it is united. The anterior sur- face is applied upon the complexus, in almost its whole extent, and especially at its inner part. It also covers, at its upper part, the obliqui capitis, the posterior extremity of the digastricus, and the occipital artery. 848. This muscle inclines the head a little without rotation, when it acts by itself, or reverses it slightly when both muscles act. 849. The trachelo-mastoideus, the transversalis colli, and the cervicahs descendens, (which has been described as a part of the sacro-lumbalis), are all so closely connected to each other, that they appear but one mass, occupying the lateral part of the cervical vertebras; but if carefully examined, they will be found merely united by cellular substance, by cutting which, they may be se- parated from each other: the cervicalis descendens lies on the outside, the trachelo-mastoideus on the inside, and the transversalis colli between them. OF THE COMPLEXUS.* 850. The Complexus is a pretty thick elongated muscle, much broader at the middle, and above than below, where it is pro- longed into a very slender point. It is situated under the splenius. It arises from the transverse and articular processes of the last four or five cervical, and from the transverse processes of the first four or five dorsal vertebra.', by as many small tendons whose fibres are * Jiiiibiaciiig many tilings, complicuted.