OF THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NEIiVfi^ 465 cfoiclctis internus muscle a filament which occasionally anasto- moses with one of the pterygoid twigs (1GG5). It furnishes two or three twigs to the tonsils and the constrictor pharyngis su- perior. Farther down, there are detached from it two or three others, which lose themselves in the posterior and interncil part of the gums. Opposite the submaxillary gland, the chorda tympani leaves it to enter into a particular ganglion, which is surrounded by a very small complicated nervous plexus with loose meshes. This plexus results from the reticular interlacing of several filaments, which arise from the lingual nerve, and from the ganglion itself, whose ramifications penetrate the gland on all sides. 1668. Beyond this gland, the gustatory nerve sends off several filaments which descend to anastomose with those of the hypoglos- sal nerve. It furnishes four or five to the sublingual gland, and about as many to the anterior part of the gums, and to the mem.- brane of the mouth. Then some more considerable twigs issue from its upper edge, and pass between the lingualis and genio- glossus muscles, to be distributed in the tissue of the tongue^ Lastly, it continues to subdivide in this organ, as far as its point, and ascends towards its upper surface to be distributed by a great number of fasciculate, penicilliform filaments, folded in the direc- tion of their lengthy in its mucous membrane. Some of them have been traced into the papillae by which it is covered, particularly at its fore part. 1669. Inferior Dentar Branch (Nervus madihulo-lahialis). A little more voluminous than the preceding, from which it re- ceives a filament (1666), it descends by its side, at first between the two pterygoid muscles, then between the pterygoideus inter- nus and the ramus of the jaw. In this second part of its course, It is separated from the pterygoideus internus and lingual nerve by the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation (574). Arrived near the middle of the internal surface of the ramus of the jaw, this nerVe gives oft'a twig {nervus mylo-hyoideus), which descends forwards in a groove, formed upon that bone, in which it is retained by a fibrous expansion of the internal lateral ligament. It is accompanied by a small artery and vein. After emerging from the groove, it places itself between the maxillary, bone and the mylo-hyoideus muscle, gives some filaments to the submaxil- lary gland, approaches the chin, separates into other four or five nlaments, and is distributed to the mylo-hyoideus, genio-hyoideus and digastricus muscles, , • n'^.^*' fui""^shes this twig, the dentar nerve itself passes into the mferior dentar canal (249) along with an artery and vein. X Pf,^^^J through its whole extent, furnishing twigs to the roots ot all the teeth, from the last large to the first small molar inclusive; but opposite the mental hole (248) it divides into two ranches: one of these, the smaller, remains in the substance of n