IMUSCLES of THI5 LAttVXX. 401 OF i'lIE CUTCO-AKYTENOIDEI POSTICI. 1483. These are also two in number, and situated at the back part of the larynx. Each of them is thin, flat and triangular, and arises from the longitudinal depression which is observed on either side of the posterior prominent line of the cricoid cartilage. Their fibres, which are shorter and nearly transverse above, and longer, and directed more obliquely outwards the lower they are, terminate behind the base of the arytenoid cartilage, between the crico-aiy- tenoideus lateralis and arytenoideus muscles. Their posterior sur- face is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The anterior lies upon the cricoid cartilage. jOF THE CHICO-AUYTENOIDEI LATEKALES. 1484. Each of these muscles occupies the side of the larynx ; it is thin, flat, and of a trapezoidal figure. Arising from the side of the upper circumference of the cricoid cartilage, it proceeds ob- liquely upwards and backwards, to be attached by short aponeu- roses, to the outer and forepart of the base of the arytenoid carti- lage, where it is confounded with the thyro-arytenoideus. Its outer surface is separated from the thyroid cartilage by cellular tissue. The mner is lined by the membrane of the larynx. OF THE THYKO-ARYTENOIDEI. 1485. These muscles are very thin, transversely flattened, broader before than behind, and of an irregular form. They arise from the middle and lower part of the posterior surface of the thy- roid cartilage, whence they proceed backwards and outwards, to be attached to the outer part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, immediately above the preceding muscles. Their outer surface is covered by the thyroid cartilage and the membrane of the pharynx^ j^eir iniier surface is lined by the membrane of the larynx. OF THE AllYTENOIDEUS. I486. This is a single muscle, situated at the posterior and up- per part of the larynx, behind the two arytenoid cartilages. It is lormcd of several planes of fibres having different directions, which i«as caused it to be divided by many anatomists into several distinct niiiscles. Of these fibres, some (arytenoideiis ohliquus) ascend ob- liquely from the base of the right arytenoid cartilage towards the summit of the left; others follow the reverse direction ; and some, V^rytenoideus transversus) proceed, transversely from the middle 2d