474 ORGANS OF SENSATION. lose themselves in the stylo-pharyngeus 'tnuscle, and some of them gain the superficial and posterior part of the tongue. The twigs, still continuing to descend, are dispersed in the pharyngeal plexus. 1698. After furnishing these different branches, the nerve itself enters beneath the stylo-glossus and liyo-glossus muscles. It then divides into three orders of twigs. The superior pass into the lingualis and constrictor isthmi faucium, and into the neighbouring mucous crypts. These, together with a filament already described (1678), form around the tonsil a true plexus (circulus tonsillaris)^ and furnish it with distinct filaments; the inferior descend into the hyo-glossus muscle and the glosso-epiglottic mucous folds (1477) '•> those of the latter part send oft' one or two to the epi- glottis, but can only be traced with great difficulty into the tissue of that organ. The middle twigs, or those of the third order, dive into the fibres of the tongue, under the hyo-glossus muscle, ascend to the upper surface of that organ, and lose themselves in its mucous follicles, spreading but very little in its muscular tissue. 1699. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is situated, in the tongue, above the hypoglossal nerve, and under the lingual twig of the in- ferior maxillary nerve. It is smaller than these nerves, and does not appear to anastomose with their filaments. OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVES. (Nervi Vagi, seu Par Vac/um.) 1700. The Pneumo-gastric Nerves arise immediately under the preceding, behind the olivary eminences, and very near the resti- form bodies, by one or two rows of filaments, from five to six lines in length, and regularly disposed. These filaments, which are very numerous, and more commonly bifurcated and very slender, are never prolonged so far as the ventricle of the cerebellum. They are from their commencement enveloped by neurilema, and present a remarkable degree of firmness. United at first into six, eight, or ten larger bundles, placed under each other, they form a broad and thin band, in which they remain parallel without communicating with each other. This band, surrounded by the arachnoid membrane, directs itself outwards and forwards, arrives at the foramen lacerum posterius, and passes through it in a par- ticular canal of the dura mater, inferior to that of the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve, which has thus no communication with the pneumo- gastric nerve. A very apparent fibrous septum in fact separates the one from the other in this part of their course. Another sep- tum, sometimes osseous in whole or in part (296), separates them both from the internal jugular vein, which is placed between them inferiorly. 1701. Immediately after issuing from the cranium, the pncu-