OF THE PKLVIS. Ill 377. A Summit, directed downwards and a little forwards, pre- senting a transverse oval surface, by which it is articulated to the COCCYX. 378. Sti-ucture. The sacrum, although very thick, especially at its upper part, is light and almost entirely spongy; it is besides perforated with a great number of cavities, which are further cal- culated to diminish its weight. An extremely thin layer of com- pact tissue invests its surface, and is prolonged into the sacral holes and canal. This canal, of which the transverse section is triangu- lar, follows the curve of the sacrum ; it is a little flattened below, or even open behind to a considerable extent, and diminishes in breadth as it descends. The last prolongation of the encephalic membranes and the sacral nerves fill up its interior. 379. Articulations and Development. The sacrum is articulat- ed to the fifth lumbar vertebra, the coccyx, and the two ossa inno- minata. Its junction with the spinal column forms a projecting angle named the Promontory, (ptomontorium.) Its development is in some measure similar to that of the vertebrae, and takes place by thirty-four or thirty-five points of ossification, disposed as fol- lows : 1st, five, placed above each other, occupy the middle and anterior part; 2dly, in each of the intervals by which the latter are separated, at a period considerably antecedent to that of birth, two small bony plates are developed, which seem to form their ar- ticular surfaces; 3dly, ten are situated anteriorly on the sides of the latter; 4thly, behind them there are developed six others, be- tween which, Sthly, there appear three or four others, which cor- respond to the spinous processes and their laminae; 6thly, there is one on each side, at the upper part of the lateral aspect, for the articular facet: this latter is developed at a later period, and seems to form a thin plate, which does itself sometimes originate by three or four particular centres. It is not uncommon also to find some other points of ossification besides those mentioned ; but they are very irregular. On account of the complexity thus exhibited in the development of the sacrum, many anatomists have considered it as formed by the union of five vertebrfp placed one above the other, and decreas- ing from the upper part downwards. 380. The sacrum has a different form in the male from what it has in the female. In the former, it is longer and narrower, and has a smaller curvature. In the latter, on the contrary, it is shorter, broader, and more curved, and presents pretty unvarying dimensions, which it is of importance to know ; thus, in general, It is from four to four and a half inches in length; its breadth, taken at the upper part, is nearly equal to its length, while at the lower, it is not more than six or seven lines ; its thickness, mea- sured from the middle and projecting part of its base to the first tubercle of its posterior aspect, is two inches and a half.