ORGANS OF AB5011PT10N. froiTi the integuments and trapezius muscle, despend outwards up- on tlic infra-spinatus muscle, where they meet with some ganglia, then enter between the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, and terminate, like the preceding, in the axilla. The inferior have their roots distributed over the whole surface of the latissimus dor- si, and ascend obliquely towards the tendon of that muscle, and join the superior. LYMPHATIC VESSELS WHICH ARISE FEOM THE AXILLARY GANGLIA. 2848. The axilla contains a very remarkable lymphatic plexus, formed by a great number of ganglia (2786) and by the vessels which terminate in them, connect them with each other, or issue from them. The latter, as they leave the highest and deepest ganglia, are reduced to the number of three or four large trunks which proceed around the subclavian vein, as far as its entrance into the thorax. There, those of the left side collect into one or two trunks which pass between the subclavius muscle and the first rib, and open partly into the corresponding subclavian vein, and partly into the thoracic duct. Those of the right side generally furnish a single trunk, of a large size, which might be compared to the thoracic duct itself, but of inconsiderable length. This trunk, which opens at the angle formed by the union of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins, is named the Right Great Lympha- tic vein (ductus thoracicus dexter). OF THE SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE HEAD AMD OF THE ANTEIlIOIl SURFACE OF THE NECK. 2849- Epicranial Lymphatics. They are distributed on all sides beneath the skin of the cranium, and may be distinguished into three orders of bundles. The occipital hwidles unite in ganglia placed behind the mastoid processes, and go to join the su- perficial lymphatics of the posterior surface of the neck. The temporal bundles accompany the veins of that name, gain the paro- tid ganglia, and mingle with the anterior superficial lymphatics of the neck. The frontal bundles collect at the inner angle of the eyes, augmented by the vessels of the eyelids and orbit, and join the lymphatics of the face. 2850. Lymphatics of the Face. These arise from all parts of the face, by radicles distributed under the skin. They follow the course of the facial vein, and divide in the submaxillary gangha, where they are confounded with the following. 2851. Superficial Aiiterior Lymphatics of the Neck. These seem to be a continuation of those of the head, form a plexus which accompanies the subcutaneous veins of the neck, and open by two