FRONTAL BONE. 47 the orifices of the frontal smuses ; on the sides, portions of cellules, which unite with similar portions belonging to the ethmoid bone: there are two or three small transverse grooves formed between these cellules, which contribute to form the internal orbitar canals. 149. On each side of the ethmoidal notch, there is observed a triangular concave surface, which forms the vault of the orbit (or- bitar processes), and which presents, anteriorly and to the outside, a small cavity which receives the lachrymal gland; in the same direction, and to the inside, a shght inequahty to which is attached a cartilaginous pulley through which the tendon of the superior oblique muscle of the eye is reflected. 150. Frontal, Anterior, or Pericranial Aspect. This is marked in the middle with a longitudinal line, commonly not very distinct, occupying the place where the two portions, of which the bone consisted at an early age, are vinited; before this union, a suture is always observed, which is sometimes found even at the most ad- vanced age. * At the lower part of this line is the nasal protu- berance, which is much larger in old than in young persons, and is generally perforated by a great number of small holes. Farther down there is seen a notch of the same name, which is articulated with the nasal bones in the middle, and on the sides with the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones. This notch itself sur- mounts the nasal spine, on the sides of which are two small lon- gitudinal grooves, forming part of the roof of the nasal fossae. The nasal spine is articulated anteriorly to the nasal bones, and behind to the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone. 151. On either side, and proceeding from above downwards, there are: a broad and smootli surface, which is covered by the fron- talis muscle ; the frontal protuberance {tuber frontale), which is very distinct in children; a slight depression; a transverse emi- nence, slightly curved, more prominent internally than outwards, named the sicperciliary arch (arcus superciliaris),-^ from its cor- responding to the eye-brow, and giving attachment to its muscle ; another prominent line, also curved, which proceeds from both sides of the nasal groove, and is named the orbital arch or margin (jnaryo orbitalis s. supra-or-bitalis.) It is terminated by two pro- cesses, the outer of which, thick and prcininent, joins the malar bone; while the inner, which is thin and broad, is articulated with the lachrymal bone: these processes are called the external and in- ternal orbitar or angular processes. At the inner third of this arch, there is observed a hole, or a notch converted into a hole by a ligament, which is called the sujjra-orbital foramen, and which • It was formerly supposed tliat tliis suture was more frequently fotmd in wo- men than in men; this, however, is erroneous, for it is as frequently met with in the adults ot one sex as of the other. « ,t I'^i'? triangular space, situated in the middle line between these two arches, is called Glabella.