VEllTEBRAL COLUMN. 19. These different processes arc united in such a manner as to form a sort of arch of the posterior and lateral parts of the vertebra. This arch is joined to the body by a pedicle, on which are scooped out, above and below, the Notches (incisures vertebrales) which are deeper itii the latter than in the former direction, and which, when the vertebra are applied one upon another, form the inter- vertebral foramina. The Hole or foramen of the vertebrtE, (foramen vertehrale, seu foramen pro medulla spinaliJ which is oval or triangular, and concurs to form the canal, is placed between the bodies and the processes. The vertebrae are all articulated with one another. 49. Structure and Development. While the body of the ver- tebr£e is cellular, their processes are almost entirely formed of com- pact tissue, being spongy only in the middle and in the places where they are enlarged. The development of these bones generally takes place by three points, "of which one belongs to the body, and the other two to the lateral and posterior parts. In newly-born infants, the spinous process is not yet formed ; this and the transverse processes have cartilaginous summits, which becoming ossified form epiphyses which have been found separate, even at a pretty advanced age ; this also takes place on the upper and under surfaces of the body. In this manner, each vertebra, properly speaking, commences its development by six or eight points. 50. Divisions. The vertebrse, as we have already said, are di- vided into three regions; in each of which they present peculiar characters, and are commonly designated by their numerical name, counting from above, there being seven cervical, twelve dorsal, and five lumbar. 51. It is right, however, to observe, that each vertebra has a pretty close resemblance to the one preceding, and the one follow- ing it, both in form and size. The general characters of the verte- brte of each region are much more decided in the middle part than at its extremities, where they pass into those of the next region. In this manner, the last cervical vertebra forms a transition to the first dorsal, the last dorsal has the greatest resemblance to the first lumbar, the last lumbar to the first bone of the sacrum, and the last bone of the sacrum to the first of the coccygeal bones. CHAttACTEUS OF THE DIFFEKENT ORDERS OF VEUTEB11.E. 52. Characters of the Cervical Vertebra (Vertebrce Colli). The vertebrae of the neck are smaller than the others. They have their body elongated transversely, a little thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, and on the sides than in the middle. It is concave above, and surmounted laterally by two small projecting laminae ; convex below, and presenting two superficial notches on the sides,