115 OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. nus abdominis. In an adult woman it is six inches in extent, when measured directly, and eight inches when its turnings are followed. 396. Lower Edge. This edge, which is shorter than the others, and inclined inwards, presents below a thin crest, more oblique and blunter in the female, turned outwards, forming one of the sides of the pubic arch, giving attachment externally to the gracilis and adductors of the thigh, and internally to the corpus cavernosum, and the transversus perinoei, and ischio-cavernosus muscles. This crest is surmounted anteriorly by a vertical surface, of an elliptical form, which unites with the bone of the opposite side to form the symphysis of the pubes. 397- Posterior Edge. Its form is very irregular; it is oblique from above downwards, and from without inwards. At its union with the upper edge, it forms the Posterior and Superior spinous process of the ilium, a large projecting eminence, which is sepa- rated by a small notch from another smaller eminence, named the Posterior and Inferior spinous process of the ilium : the latter is rounded, sharp, and formed by the posterior part of the surface which articulates with the sacrum. Beneath this process there oc- curs a very deep notch, (incisura ischiadica superior), which con- tributes to form the Great Sciatic Hole, and which is termmated below by a thin, pointed, triangular, and compressed eminence, named the spinous process of the ischium. This spine, which is more or less prominent in different individuals, gives attachment externally to the superior gemellus; internally to the coccygeus ; and by its summit to the anterior sacro-sciatic ligament. Beneath it are observed, a notch (ificisura ischiadica inferior), pretty fre- quently channelled, in which the tendon of the internal obturator muscle is reflected, and the Tuberosity of the ischium (tuber ischii). This latter eminence, which is broad and rounded, is formed by the union of the posterior and inferior edges of the os innominatum ; ■the quadratus and adductor magnus femoris, are inserted into its outer part; the inferior gemellus and sacro-sciatic ligament into the inner; the biceps, semi-tendinosus and scmi-membranosus into the middle. 398. Anterior Edge. This edge is concave, oblique above, and nearly horizontal below. By uniting with the upper edge, it forms the Anterior and Superior spinous process of the ilium, into which are inserted, externally, the tensor vaginas femoris, internally the iliacus muscle, and in the middle the obliquus externus abdo- mmis and sartorius. A notch giving passage to some small nerves, separates this eminence from the Anterior and Inferior spinous pnjcess of the ilium, to which one of the tendons of the rectus fe- moris IS attached. The tendon of the psoas'and iliacus muscle shdcs over a groove which is observed farther down, and which is limited internally by the Ilio-pectineal Eminence {eminentia ilio-pectinca) into which the psoas parvus is inserted. The edge of which we arc speaking is terminated by a triangular horizontal .surface, di- rected slightly downwards and forwards and broader externally