OllGANS OF AUSORPTION. Those of" tlic third order descend from the two surfaces of the stomach towards tlie ganglia placed along its great curvature, and unite into a few trunks towards the pylorus, pass between it and the pancreas, proceed for some time upon the anterior surface of that organ, then turn round it and descend behind it to divide in the ganglia wliich surround the coehac and superior mesenteric arteries, 2«23. Lymphatic Vessels of the Great Omentum. I'hey are not numerous, and ascend to unite with the preceding in the gan- glia of the great curvature of the stomach. LVJV11>1IATIC vessels of the spleen, I'ANCUEAS, and LIVKJl. 2824. Lymphatics of the Spleen. They are formed of a great number of superficial and deep branches, more numerous on the convex surface of the organ, and all uniting together, near its fis- sure, into a few trunks which form a plexus around the splenic vessels, divide in some ganglia, enter beneath the duodenal extre- mity of the pancreas, and unite with the inferior lymphatics of.the liver. 2825. Lymphatics of the Pancreas. They arise in the sub- stance of that gland, follow the pancreatic blood-vessels, and unite with the lymphatics of the spleen and stomach. 282(J. Lymphatics of the Liver. They are extremely numerous, nor does any organ in the body appear to contain so many. They also seem generally to a certain extent destitute of valves in their interior, or at least these valves are much looser than any where else. They are distinguished into superficial and deep. 2827. Superficial Lymphatics of the Upper Surface of the Liver. On the right lobe they are naturally collected into four bundles. The first is formed hy those which arise between the laminae of the suspensory ligament, which, uniting into two or three trunks, enter into the thorax, between the diaphragm and ensiform carti- lage, pass through one or two of the ganglia of the mediastinum, again subdivide, receive some lymphatics from the mediastinum and pericardium, pass into some other ganglia, ascend to near the left internal jugular vein, and open into the thoracic duct near its termination. The second arises by a great number of roots, near the circum- ference of the same lobe to the right side, passes between the la- minae of the right lateral ligament of the liver, and divides into two sets of vessels. The superior pass through the diaphragm, place themselves between it and the pleura, proceed to the left, forming a pretty complicated plexus, and re-enter the abdomen, along with the aorta, to terminate in the ganglia lodged between that artery and the vena cava inferior. The inferior vessels pass between the attachments of the diaphragm and the last ribs, and glide along the latter as far as their articulation with the vertebra-, where they unite with the intercostal lymphatics, to traverse some ganglia, and terminate in the thoracic duct.