716 OIIGANS OF CIRCULATION. artery. It loses itself in the surrounding muscles; but there is de- tached from it a very remarkable small twig, which penetrates into the cotyloid cavity by its inferior notch, and goes to be distributed to the reddish cellular tissue which fills the deepest part of that cavity. 2584. Anterior Branch. It descends between the long and short adductor muscles, giving off twigs to them, as well as to the adductor magnus, obturator externus, pectineus, and gracilis mus- cles, and to the integuments of the upper and inner region of the thigh and of the genital parts. It terminates by anastomosing with a twig of the internal circumflex artery, or by losing itself in the muscles and skin. Near its commencement, it sends off' a small twig which descends along the internal edge of the obturator hole, to anastomose with a twig of the posterior branch, so that this foramen is truly surrounded by a complete arterial circle. Internal Branches of the Hypogastric Artery. OF THE MIDDLE HEMORRHOIDAL ARTERY. {Art. hcamorrhoidea media.) 2585. It is sometimes wanting, and is of more constant occur- rence in the female than in the male. It varies much in its size and origin, frequently coming ofi^ from the ischiatic or internal pu- dic. It descends obliquely over the anterior part of the rectum, behind the fundus of the bladder in the male, and behind the va- gina in the female. It separates into a great number of twigs, which expand in these different parts, and anastomose superiorly with the haemorrhoidal twigs of the inferior mesenteric artery, and inferiorly with those of the internal pudic. OF THE UTERINE ARTERY. {Art. uterina.) 2586. Its volume is always in relation with the state of deve- lopment of the uterus, so as frequently to be very small, while in other cases, at the end of gestation, for example, it is larger than any other branch of the hypogastric artery. It arises from the hy- pogastric, either separately, or along with the umbihcal, or from the internal pudic. It directs itself at first upon the lateral and upper part of the vagina, between it and the bladder, giving off" a number of twigs to both these organs. It then ascends, in the substance of the ligamcntum latum, upon the sides of the uterus, and has an extremely flcxuous course. There, it divides into a great nvirabcr of twigs which penetrate into the tissue of the organ,