ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 312 fibrous prolongation, which proceeds downwards and inwards to join the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, before the brachial artery and pronator teres. It then sinks between the supinator longus and pronator teres, and on arriving beneath the elbow, twists upon it- self to terminate by embracing the bicipital tuberosity of the ra- dius, at its back part. 1137. The anterior surface of the biceps is covered above by the deltoid and pectoralis major; in the rest of its extent, by the brachial aponeurosis and the integuments. The posterior surface rests upon the humerus, the coraco-brachialis and brachialis inter- nus muscles, and the external cutaneous nerve. Its inner edge is united above with the coraco-brachialis ; in the middle and below, it is accompanied by the brachial artery. 1138. Bursa Mucosa. A thin, very loose bursa mucosa, ge- nerally containing a good deal of moisture, invests the outer sur- face of its lower tendon, the fore part of the bicipital process and neck of the radius, is engaged in a notch of the circumference of the supinator brevis, and contributes much to facilitate the motions of the muscle. 1139. The biceps flexor bends the fore-arm on the arm, supi- nates the hand when it is prone, or bends the arm upon the fore- arm when the latter is fixed. Lastly, it may bring the humerus and scapula closer together, and strengthens the shoulder joint by means of the tendon of its long portion. PF THE BRACHIALIS INTEUNUS. 1140. This muscle is deeply seated at the lower and fore part of the arm, before the elbow-joint. It is flat, broader in the middle, and at its upper part than below. It arises from the outer and in- ner surfaces of the humerus, over a space extending from the del- toid impression to near the elbow-joint, and is also attached along the inner edge of that bone, to an aponeurotic partition which separates it from the triceps extensor, and along its outer edge close to the supinator longus. From these origins it descends nearly vertically, increases to its middle part, then becomes a little thinner, passes obliquely inwards over the elbow joint, and termi- nates at the rough impression beneath the coracoid process of the ulna, by a broad and thick tendon, which commences by several portions at a considerable distance above the joint, in the substance of the muscle, especially on the outer side, and sends some fibres to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The middle fibres of tliis muscle are vertical, and longer than the inner or outer, which are directed obliquely outwards or inwards. All the fibres, moreover, are shorter in proportion to their depth. 1141. Its anterior surface is covered above by the brachial apo- neurosis and the skin ; below and externally, by the supinator lon- gus, which is lodged in a depression which it presents ; at the mid-