ARTICULATIONS 01<" THE TRUNK. 0 (lesirieiis." vertical fibres, parallel to each other, has been named the Antenor Cerrkal Ligament; it descends from the basilar process to tho tubercle of the anterior arch of the atlas. The other, which is much thinner, broad, and membraneous, extends transversely from • the outer extremity of one of the occipito-atlantal articulations, to ( the corresponding point on the opposite side ; its tissue is dense and compact, and the fibres of which it is composed are with diffi- culty distinguished ; its anterior surface is covered by the preced- ino' fasciculus, the recti capitis antici majores and minores muscles, and a portion of the recti capitis laterales ; it gives rise, by its sides, to a fibrous arch, the concavity of which is directed upwards, and which is attached to the fore part of the occipital condyle on the one hand, and on the other to the jugular surface of the same bone; this ligamentous arch is traversed by the pneumo-gastric rand spinal accessory nerves, and by the internal jugular vein. The posterior surface of this ligament rests upon the odontoid rprocess, its ligaments, and on the synovial capsules of the articu- ation itself. 584. Posterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament, (Membrana annuli •lost. vert, primce). This is broader than the last; it is formed of wo laminte placed the one before the other, which proceed together '"rom the posterior part of the circumference of the occipital hole, jetween the condyles, separating as they descend; the anterior, svhich is thick and presents very distinct vertical fibres, is interlaced yith the dura mater of the vertebral canal; while the other, which s of a looser and apparently cellular tissue, is attached to the great .rch of the atlas. Between these two laminae there is a slight layer I f cellular tissue, traversed by a great number of nervous filaments ind vascular twigs, which pass through small holes formed in the laidst of the fibres. The anterior surface of this ligament corre- ponds to the dura mater ; the posterior to the recti capitis postici iiajores and minores, and the obliquus superior. Its extremities )rm with the upper notches of the vertebra two apertures, through hich pass the vertebral arteries and sub-occipital nerves. ARTICULATION OF .THE OCCIPUT 'WITH THE AXIS. bec%1 585. Here we find neither diarthrodial cartilages nor synovial Mr • ' •• " ■ . . ^ - J - ' . — " &— -— ^j^^^.^i^,. iipsules to describe, on account of there not being bony surfaces, lapted for sliding on each other. The connexions are formed by tic!) eans of a very strong ligamentous apparatus. 586. Odontoid Ligaments, {Ligamenta vertebrcB colli secundae ;t,l#| aria). These are two short, thick, round, and very strong fasci- (iJf-||ah, with parallel and close fibres, longer below than above, which jljeJ^Ihpresent each a sort of cone, whose truncated summits embrace the jjfin'l -les and apex of the odontoid process, while their bases are in- ' '"fi^/^'^ ^" s"!*!! uneven fossae, formed on the inside of each con- rfi le of the occipital bone ;* their direction is obliquely outwards • Soemmering describes each of these ligiiments as being " initio latum ct in acu-