40 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. jccts. These two apertures, which are articulated by their circum- ference, with the turbinated bones of the sphenoid, lead to two cavities formed in the interior of the bone, named sphenoidal sinuses. These sinuses do not exist in young children, and are much larger in old people than in adults; for they then occupy all that part of the bone which is situated beneath the pituitary fossa, and the point of union of the processes of Ingrassias. The septum by which they are separated is sometimes incomplete, or perforated by a hole, and is frequently inclined to the right or left, so that a great difference in their respective capacity is produced. Nor is it rare to find some other osseous laminue, forming subor- dinate partitions, and thus dividing the sinuses. 121. Beyond the openings of the sinuses, there are found in- equalities of greater or less extent, which serve to articulate the bone with the ethmoid above, and with the palate bone below. More externally, there occurs, on each side, an irregular quadri- lateral surface, which is directed inwards and forwards. This sur- face is smooth and plain, and enters into the constitution of the or- bit, of which it forms the outer wall. It is surmounted by a rough triangular surface, which unites with the frontal bone. It is bound- ed inferiorly by a horizontal, free, blunt ridge, which contributes to the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure ; internally by a rounded edge, which belongs to the foramen lacerum anterius or sphenoidal fissure, and which presents at its upper part a notch, or liole, for the passage of a branch of the ophthalmic artery ; and externally by a very rough indented margin, which is articulated "with the malar bone. The anterior orifice of the foramen rotundum is observed beneath this surface and to the inside. 122. Two xygomato-temporal or eocternal aspects. They are in- clined outwards and downwards, irregularly elongated, and are di- vided into two portions by a transverse ridge to which are attached the deepest-seated fibres of the temporal muscle. Above this ridge is a concave quadrilateral surface, marked with some arterial im- pressions, and forming part of the temporal fossa. Beneath it there is an oblique surface, also concave, giving attachment to a portion of the external pterygoid muscle, &nd continued into the pterygoid process. It belongs to the zygomatic fossa. 123. The cerebral and orbito-nasal aspects of the sphenoid bone are separated from each other by an edge which may be named the frontal. It is directed outwards on each side, proceeding from the small process which surmounts the septum of the siomses. lliis edge is irregular, sloped, and at first pretty thick, but afterwards becomes narrower : it is articulated with the lower edge of the frontal bone, and is interrupted in its middle part, where it ceases to belong to the process of Ingrassias, by the very narrow entrance of a notch of considerable size and great depth, which is named the Sphenoidal Fissure, or Foramen Lacerum Jnterivs. This fis- sure is limited by these processes above, and inclines downwards and inwards, is broader in the latter direction than outwards, and