ORGANS OF GENERATION. 818 in the direction of its lengtli, and furnished with a multitude of small holes which are the orifices of the oblique ducts placed in its substance, and which arc named Sinuses of Moryagni. These ducts appear to be lacuna*, for they are not seen to proceed from follicles, as is the case in many other mucous membranes. ITiey begin to exist opposite the bulb, and become more and more abun- dant as far as the fossa navicularis. The mucous membrane of the urethra is very delicate, so as not to be distinguishable from epidermis. It is traversed by a great number of very minute blood-vessels. 3014. Cellular Membrane. It seems to arise from the white tissue peculiar to the neck and triangular space of the bladder (2958), and at first separates the mucous membrane from the tis- sue of the prostate gland. Opposite its membraneous portion, it acquires considerable density, and is strengthened by the fibres of the levatoi'cs ani, acceleratores urina', transversi perinai and sphinc- ter ani muscles. 3015. Spongy Tissue. It surrounds the three anterior fourths of the length of the urethra. It commences by forming the bulb, then diminishes in thickness and constitutes a uniform and cylin- drical layer as far as the glans. Beneath the fossa navicularis, it becomes thin in a remarkable degree, and collects above and behind to form the glans by expanding. It is attached to the corpus ca- vernosum by a great number of blood-vessels which it receives from that part, and by a lamina of its fibrous membrane. The cellules of this tissue are pretty large in the glans, but very small in the rest of its extent. From microscopical observations recently made, it would appear that this tissue contains fasciculi of longitudinal muscular fibres, which are very short, interlaced together and united by their ex- tremity and origin. The thickness of this fleshy layer is greater at the upper part of the penis than at the lower, and towards the external orifice of the canal than elsewhere. • 3016. The arteries of the urethra are numerous and come par- ticularly from the internal pudic The largest branches penetrate into the bulb (2596). Its veins follow the course of the arteries, and its lymphatic vessels go to the inguinal and hypogastric plexuses. Its nerves come from the pudic (1835) and inferior glutaal (1834). OF THE GI.ANS. 3017. The Glans {Balanus) of the penis, which is continuous with the urethra and forms the extremity of the penis, has the appearance of a cone slightly flattened in the same direction as the corpus cavcrnosum. "its summit, Avhich in some individuals is covered by the prepuce and in others free, is perforated by the orifice of the urethra. Its base^ which has a very oblique direction