ORGANS OF CIIiCULATION. G86 the preceding, it arises from the posterior part of the axillary artery, and passes backwards round the upper part of the shaft of the hume- rus, between the subscapularis and teres major muscles, and before the long portion of the triceps extensor. It gives them some twigs, then dives under the deltoid, and arrives at the fore and outer part of the humerus. There then come off from it superior twigs which ascend to be distributed to the capsule of the shoulder joint, and to the teres minor and infra^spinatus muscles, as well as to the fleshy fibres of the deltoid, between which it anastomoses with the acromial artery ; and inferior tivigs, which descend in the sub- stance of the deltoid as far as its tendon. 7'he artery itself is dis- tributed to that muscle, and there communicates with the anterior circumflex artery. 2440. Tlie Anterior Circunr/le.v Artery. It is very small, and is frequently furnished by the preceding. It directs itself horizcm- tally forwards and outwards, under the coraco-brachialis muscle and under the short portion of the biceps flexor, running along the up- per edge of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major mus- cles. It then turns over the upper part of the humerus, runs be- tween that bone and the deltoid as far as the bicipital groove (442), passes under the tendon of the long portion of the biceps, and dives into the substance of the deltoid where it loses itself. This artery is always immediately applied upon the bone, and adiieres to it in a decided manner.. It gives but very few twigs to the deltoid muscle until its termination; but it sends a great number upon the fi- brous capsule of the shoulder joint, and upon the subscapularis muscle, near its attachment. Pretty frequently, instead of losing itself in the deltoid, the an- terior circumflex artery ascends in the bicipital groove and is ex- panded over the capsule. OF THE BRACHIAL OR HUMERAL xMlTERY. (Arteria Brachialis sou Humeraria). 2441. Placed at the inner and fore part of the arm, from the axilla to a finger's breadth beneath the bend of the elbow, it forms the true continuation of the subclavian and axillary arteries. Pretty deep, and altogether internal above, it becomes more superficial and anterior as it descends. 2442. Anteriorly, the brachial artery is successively covered from above downwards, by the coraco-brachialis muscle, which is separ- ated from it by a considerable thickness of cellular tissue, the bra- chial aponeurosis, and the skin along the inner edge of the biceps muscle, and lastly at the bend of the elbow, by the inferior aponeu- rosis of the biceps, the median basilic vein and the skin, from which it is separated by a pretty thick layer of cellular tissue. 2443. Posteriorly, it is free in its upper third, which is scparat-