RENAL PLEXUS. 5U walls of the external iliac artery may be traced as far as the upper mrt of the thigh. The other portion of the inferior mesenteric plexus, which is placed externally of the preceding, accompanies the mesenteric ar- tery and its branches into the mcso-rectum. Its filaments are in- terlaced around that artery in a very loose manner, and many of them are seen to separate and follow a vague direction in the dif- ferent folds of the mesentery. Those which go to the sigmoid ^.flexure of the colon are prolonged a little upon that intestine. IThe principal secondary plexus which is here furnished is that of Ithe left colic artery, which spreads out upon the corresponding por- ition of the colon, and goes to anastomose above with the superior mesenteric plexus. Few ganglia are met with in the course of the inferior meserite- riric plexus. When there are any, they are always situated near the principal artery. RENAL OR EMULGENT PLEXUSES. ' 1920. These are two in numhef, a right and a left. They come off along with bundles of the solar and coeliac plexuses from the oouter part of the semilunar ganglia, and from the expansion of the small splanchnic nerves. They, moreover, receive two other nerves of considerable size, one of which rises by two twigs from the .eleventh and twelfth thoracic ganglia, and the other comes from tithe filament which connects the last thoracic ganglion with the first iliirabar. Both pass through the diaphragm and anastomose toge- tlther before losing themselves in the renal plexus. Frequently also tithe first two lumbar ganglia contribute to their formation. Each of these plexuses commences by three or four ganglia placed uxipon the commencement of the renal artery, and furnishing by ti their circumference a great ntimber of slender rectilinear filaments, ■which do not anastomose with each cither, but are interlaced in a idecided manner, and join the different filaments which we have t^just described, when the artery separates into twigs. There are tithen formed some small ganglia, particularly behind the renal artery ^ or vein. Then also they all penetrate together into the substance Jiof the kidney. 1921. Just at the commencement of the capsular arteries, there ' 18 detached from the renal plexus a small secondary plexus, (supra- ' fenal)-which accompanies them, sends some filaments over the sides of the diaphragm, and joins itself to certain twigs of the semi- lunar ganglion. SPEKMATIC PLEXUSES. 1922. These are also two, and are derived especially from the