MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 259 first trarifeVCTse procbss iof tlie 'ncck, before the preceding, with' . which it is a little united. It then ascends backwards and inwards, i becoming broader, and arrives beneath the outer part of the supe- rior curved line of the occipital bone, and sometimes at the mastoid [process of the temporal, where it is fixed between the splcnius and rrectus capitus posticus major, by pretty distinct aponeurotic fibres. Mts posterior surface, which is inclined downwards, is covered by tthe com plexus, the trachelo-mastoideus, and by the splenius. The ( anterior passes over the occipital bone, the vertebral artery, and I the attachment of the rectus capitis posticus major. 875. It extends the head, inclming it to its own side. 876- The above recti and obliqui muscles are exposed imme- ildiately on removing the upper extremity of the complexus, but, :iare covered with a quantity of cellular substance, which must be premoved; while doing so, the head should be bent forwards for i the recti, the atlas rotated on the axis for the obliquus inferior, and lithe head twisted as much as possible on the atlas, for the obliquus ^superior. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. MUSCLES OF THE CEANIUM. Of the Epicranial Aponeurosis. 877- This name is given to a broad fibrous expansion, adhering tjtrongly to the integuments, and loosely attached to the pericra- liaium by a lax cellular tissue, which is destitute of adipose sub- utance; it covers the whole upper part of the head. The fleshy Bbres of the frontal, occipital, and avu-icular muscles terminate in it. ttts fibres, which are very distinct, white and parallel posteriorly, nre m the rest of its extent greyish, interwoven and indistinct, in- jomuch that it often appears to degenerate into cellular tissue, rhey are also frequently divided into bundles, and leave intervals: ..)f greater or less size between them. OF THE FRONTALIS.* 878. The Frontalis is a membranous muscle, of an irregularly [uadrilateral form, covering the forehead, to the skin of which it trongly adheres. Its fibres, which are short, and directed ob- iquely outwards towards the temple, become longer, parallel, and V" middle, to be afterwards shortened more internally, ?fiere they are interwoven a httle with those of the opposite side. nJonuZ^^T^^^ 'lescribe this muscle with the following, under the general i.ime ol Occcjnto-Jroiitali,, or L'jiicraniui.