333 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. pluilanx of the thumb. It often sends a fibrous prolongation to the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 1226. Its anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor profundus, by the first two lumbricales, and by the skin. The posterior corresponds to the first three interossei, and also to the skin. 1227. This muscle carries the thumb inwards, and brings it near the other fingers. Internal Palmar Region. OF THE PALMARIS BREVIS. 1228. This name is given to four or five small bundles of mus- cular fibres which do not exist in all subjects, and which are met ■with immediately under the skin, at the inner and upper part of the palm of the hand. They are surrounded and separated by fat, have a transverse direction, and are parallel to each other. They arise from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and from the inner edge of the palmar aponeurosis, and terminate in the chorion of the skin. They correspond to the skin anteriorly, and to the abductor and flexor muscles of the little finger, and the ulnar ar- tery and nerve, posteriorly. They vary much in their form, and their use is to increase the concavity of the palm by puckering the skin of the region which they occupy, and pushing it forwards. OF THE ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI. 1229. This is a long flat muscle, broader at its middle part than at the extremities. It arises from the anterior and inferior parts of the OS pisiforrae, by aponeurotic fibres, which are continuous with the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris. From thence it descends vertically along the inner edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is attached to the inner side of the upper extremity of the first pha- lanx of the little finger, by a tendon of variable length, which is ■united to that of the flexor brevis of the same finger, and sends some fibres to join the inner edge of the tendon of its extensors. 1230. Its anterior surface is covered by the palmaris brevis, by a very thin aponeurosis, and by the integuments. The jjosterior covers the opponens minimi digiti. 1231 It carries the little finger inwards and forwards, and se- parates it from the other fingers. OF THE FLEXOll BUEVIS MINIMI DIGITI. !• This muscle does not occur in all subjects, and when it