OF THE LATERAL SACKAL ARTERY. 713 OF THE SACRO-LATEBAL AllTERY. (Art. Sacra Lateralis.) 2569. Sometimes there is only one on each side, more frequent- lly, two care met with. It arises from the hypogastric artery itself, I or from the ilco-lurabar or glutajal. Directed obliquely inwards and downwards, it descends before the anterior sacral holes, and reaches the summit of the coccyx, where it anastomoses by an arch . with the middle sacral artery. Sometimes it does not go so far, 1 but passes through the third or fourth sacral hole, and is distribut- i ed to the spinal marrow and the muscles of the sacral grooves. Its I twigs are external and internal. 2570. External or Posterior Twigs. They are larger than the i internal, and are commonly four in number; they introduce them- : selves into the sacral canal by the anterior sacral holes, and pre- ' sently divide each into two secondary twigs, one of which passes I over the anterior wall of the sacral canal, giving ramifications to : the membrane which lines it, and to the gangliform bulging of the sacral nerves, while the other issues by the posterior sacral hole, : and loses itself in the muscles of the vertebral grooves. Those of one side generally communicate with those of the opposite side. 2571. Internal Twigs. They spread out their ramifications in the sacral nerves and ganglia, in the pyriformis muscles, and upon the periosteum of the sacrum. They anastomose on the fore part of that bone with the lateral branches of the middle sacral artery. OF THE GLUTEAL ARTERY. (Art. Glutcea.) 2572. This is one of the largest branches of the hypogastric ar- tery, from which it rises a little beneath the preceding, which are often furnished by it. Directed downwards, outwards and back- wards, it issues from the pelvis by the upper part of the sciatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle, between the lumbo-sacral nerve and the anterior branch of the first sacral nerve. It gains the posterior part of the pelvis, is covered by the glutjeus maximus, and near the posterior edge of the glutaeus minimus, divides into two branches, the one superficial, the other deep. 2573. Before issuing from the pelvis, this artery sends some small twigs to the rectum, pyriformis muscles and neighbouring cellular tissue. 2574. Superficial Branch. It directs itself a little outwards, between the glutacais maximus and gluta?us mcdius muscles, and se- parates into a great many twigs which are tUfliised in their substance,