497 OP THE ULNAR NERVE. the median nerve, in the interval of the third and fourth nletacar- pal bones. After giving a filament to the third lumbricalis, it di- vides into tvfo secondary twigs which descend upon the ulnar edge of the middle finger, and radial edge of the ring finger. The latter receives a filament of the ulnar nerve; but both send posterior fila- ments into the integuments of these fingers, and terminate by ana- tomosing in their pulp. 1772. AH the digital twigs furnished by the median nerve ac- eompany the arteries of the fingers, and give oft' on all sides slen- der filaments to the skini OF THE IJtNAR NERVE; {Nervus Cuhitalis.) 1773. Arising from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, and in particular^ from the last two branches which enter into its formation, this nerve descends almost vertically, only in- clining a little backwards, along the inner edge of the triceps ex- tensor muscle, to which it is pretty closely attached by cellular tis- sue. Not far from the elbow, it gives off' some long and slender filaments which go to the integuments of the upper and back part of the fore-arm. It then passes between the inner condyle and olecranonj traverses the upper extremity of the flexor carpi uln'aris muscle,- and directs itself obliquely downwards and forwards, along the anterior and inner part of the fore-arm, between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum profundus, and internally of the ulnar artery. Its volume gradually diminishes as it descends. Towards the lower region of the fore-arm, a little above the wrist, it divides into two branches, one of which proceeds over the back of the hand, while the other goes to the palm; 177'i- Before dividing, and after passing through the substance of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar nerve commonly gives off' from four to six filaments to the neighbouring muscles, especially the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum profundus. One of them accompanies the ulnar artery for a considerable time, and loses it- self in the two flexoTs of the fingers near the wrist. 1775. Palmar Branch. Larger than the dorsal, and appear- ing to be the true continuation of the trunk, it emerges from be- hind the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, proceeds along its outer edge, passes between the annular ligament and the integuments, beside the pisiform bone, and, before arriving at the palm of the hahdj divides into two twigSj- a deep and superficial. The deep twig passes behind the upper extremity of the oppo- nens minimi digiti,- dives behind the bundle formed by the tendons of the flexors of the fingers and lumbricales, and then bends out- wards, so as to form a kind of arch, the concavity of which isabovtt, 2 k