534 ORGANS OV SENSATION. OF THE GANGLIA OF THE THORAX. OF THE CARDIAC GANGLION Oil PLEXUS. 1899. This is the central point of union of the cardiac nerves. It is placed behind the arch of the aorta, near the origin of that artiery and before the division of the bronchi, and extends from above downwards, from the origin of the arteria innominata to the division of the pulmonary artery into two branches. It is elon- gated, sinuous, of an unequal size in the different parts of its course, and of a grayish colour. It has a transparent and gela- tinous appearance, and its consistence is very soft. Its upper part receives the right and left middle cardiac nerves, some filaments of the superior cardiac nerves, especially of the left, and also some of the inferior cardiac nerves, of the right side. But anteriorly, posr teriorly, and inferiorly, it furnishes filaments which constitute various plexuses which we proceed to examine, and into the formar tion of which there also enter numerous and isolated filaments of the inferior and superior cardiac nerves. r 1900. Its anterior Jilaments, which are in very small jiumber, are distributed to the walls of the fore part of the aorta. Some of them join the anterior coronary plexus beneath it. 1901. The posterior filaments are numerous. They are very short, and throw themselves into the fore part of the pulmonary plexus, (I7IO). 1902. The inferior^ which are still more numerous and much larger, belong especially to the heart. They may be divided into two classes. 1°. Some of them, collected into a pretty large bundle, and always pulpy and gelatinous like all the other twigs of this ganglion, emr. brace the arterial ligament posteriorly,* and turn from above down- wards over the left pulmonary artery, where they begin to separate from each other. Several of them then penetrate into the lung, are interlaced with the divisions of the corresponding pulmonary plexus, and accompany the branches of the pulmonary arteries and veins. Others descend again upon the trunk of the pulmon- ary artery, as far as the heart. But a much more remarkable twig than any of these, crosses obliquely from above downwards the left pulmonary artery, and gains the posterior part of the base of the heart, towards the origin of the posterior coronary artery. There it divides into a great number of very slender filaments which are interlaced around that artery, and form the posterior coronary plexus. These filaments, which are very numerous, give rise to as many secondary plexuses as the vessel has branches. Thus one of these secondary plexuses proceed from left to right over the base of the heart, and loses it- self upon its plain surface. Another runs along the left edge of " This arfciiullifiment is the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which in the foetus passed liom tlic pulinounry artery to the aorta.