OF THE RECTUM. Q21 to be found membraneous semilunar folds, more or less numerous, oblique or transverse, of which the floating edge is directed from below upwards towards the cavity of the intestine. These folds form a kind of lacunae, the bottom of which is narrow and directed downwards. There are observed, moreover, on the inside of the rectum the orifices of mucous follicles which are directed from above downwards, and reddish villosities belonging to the mucous, membrane. The foUiclqs in question pour into the rectum a white and pretty thick mucus. 2207. The upper extremity of the rectum communicates witli the end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The lower, which is very contracted, is terminated by the Anus,* which is situated at about an inch before the coccyx. On the edges of the anus, the inner membrane of the intestine is continuous with the skin, which, there, is very delicate, furnished with radiating plicJE, and covered with a greater or less quantity of hair which exists only in the adult male. This extremity is embraced by the sphincter am (1299), and by the two levatores ani (13J3). OKGANIZATION OF THE RECTUM. 2208. Serous Membrane or Coat. The rectum is entirely des- titute of this coat in its lower part, as we have just said. The case is very different with respect to its tipper region, behind which the peritoneum even forms the fold named Meso-rectum (2204). When the uterus is greatly distended during gestation the perito- neum is raised up by that organ, and almost entirely leaves the rectum. In the male, the distention of the bladder causes the same phenomenon, but in a less degree. 2209. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is thicker than in the other intestines, and has a great resemblance to that of the oeso- phagus. Its outer surface is separated above from the peritoneum by a layer of adipose cellular tissue. The inner is connected with the mucous membrane by a loose cellular tissue which is not adi- pose. It is composed of two planes of fibres, the one superficial, the other deep. The superficial fibres, which are longitudinal, predo- minate in a decided manner in the two upper thirds of the rectum ; the others, which are circular, exist in its lower third and near the anus. The former also have a white tint; the others acquire a reddish hue, which is so much the deeper the lower they are. This circumstance has induced many anatomists to describe around the lower part of the rectum a fleshy ring under the name of htter- nal Sphincter of the Anus. 2210. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is similar to that of the rest of the digestive canal, only thicker, redder, more spongy, and " TifUKlof of the Greeks.