137 OF THE METACARPAL BONES. forwards, and convex transversely, -which is connected with the trapezium; externally, this extremity gives attachment to the ten- don of the extensor ossis metacarpi polhcis. To the rest of its cir- cumference a fibrous capsule is attached. Its lower eivtremity, or head, is convex and smooth, more prolonged and broader before than behind, and covered with a cartilage for the purpose of being articulated to the first phalanx of the thumb. There are observed at its anterior part two depressions, which correspond to the sesa- moid bones, and, on each side, a depression which receives the in- sertion of the lateral ligament. OF THE SECOND METACAIIPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Digiti Indicis.) 471. This is one of the longest and largest of these bones. Its body, which is curved like that of the preceding bone, is of a prismatic and trigonal form. Posteriorly, it presents a prominent longitudinal line, which bifurcates below, to form the sides of a triangular surface, of which the summit is turned upwards, and into which are inserted, externally, the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and, internally, the second. At its fore part it is sur- mounted by a blunt and rounded edge, which corresponds to the tendons of the flexors, and is more prominent below than above. Externally, it gives attachment to the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and, internally, and somewhat anteriorly, to the first of the palmar iuterossei. Its upper extremity is marked in the middle with a concave surface, which articvilates with the os tra- pezoides; externally, it presents a plain surface, inclined for- wards, which unites with the trapezium; and, internally, a double articulating surface, of which the upper part is connected with the OS magnum, and the lower with the third metacarpal bone. Poste- riorly, this extremity of the bone bears a tuberosity which gives at- tachment to the tendon of the extensor carpi radiaUs longior, and, anteriorly, inequahties for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. The loiver ewtremity, or head, of this bone is similar to that of the first, and is articulated with the first phalanx of the forefinger. OF THE THIRD METACAIIPAL BONE. (Os Metacarpi Digiti Medii.) 472. This bone is a little shorter than the preceding. Its body presents exactly the same disposition. Anteriorly, it gives attach- ment to the flexor brevis pollicis, for the upper fourth part of Its length, and in the lower three fourths affords insertion to the adductor pollicis. Externally the second, and internally the third dorsal interosseous muscles, arc inserted into it. Its upper