332 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 1221. It impresses upon the first metacarpal bone a rotatory mo- tion, which opposes the thumb to the fingers. OF THE FLEXOR BllEVIS POLLICIS MANUS. 1222. Placed within and beneath the two preceding muscles, short, of a rather irregular form, and bifurcated at its two extremi- ties, this muscle has two separate origins. One arises anteriorly and externally, from the fore and under part of the anterior annular li- gament of the carpus, from the trapezium, and from an aponeuro- tic septum interposed between it and the opponens poUicis, The other origin, which is posterior, is from the lower part of the os magnum, from the upper extremity of the third metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments by which they are united. The two por- tions of the muscle descend outwards, separated at first from each other, but soon united behind the tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis, to which they afford a kind of longitudinal channel (1172.) Arrived at the lower extremity of the first metacarpal bone, they separate anew ; the outer is confounded with the tendon of the ab- ductor poUicis (1216), and is attached to the fore part of the up- per extremity of the first phalanx of the thumb, and to the outer sesamoid bone of its articulation ; the inner is united to the sum- mit of the adductor poUicis, and in like manner goes to be attached to the phalanx and to the inner sesamoid bone. These two inser- tions take place each by a pretty strong tendon. 1223. The anterior surface of the flexor brevis poUicis is co- vered, at the middle, by the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis ; internally, by those of the flexor profundus and by the first two lum- bricales; externally, by an aponeurosis, by the skin, and by the abductor poUicis. The posterior surface corresponds to the first metacarpal bone, to the first two dorsal and to the first palmar in- terossei, as well as to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. Its outer edge is often confounded with the opponens poUicis, and the inner with the adductor. 1224. It bends the first phalanx of the thumb upon the first metacarpal bone, and the latter upon the trapezium. OF THE ADDUCTOR POLLICIS MANUS. 1225. This muscle, which is broad, thin, and triangular, is stiU more deeply seated than the flexor brevis. It arises from the three inferior fourths of the anterior surface of the third metacarpal bone, between two of the interosseous muscles, by short aponeuroses, to ■which the fleshy fibres succeed, which descend outwards converging, and terminate in a tendon united to that of the preceding muscle, and attached, along with it, to the inner and upper part of the first