OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIyVL ARTERY. 729 ttwigs which anastomose, around the knee joint and in the integu- ! ments, with the inferior articular arteries. 2648. In the rest of its extent, this artery gives off laterally a ; great number of twigs tc the peronei, tibialis anticus and cxten- ! sores digitorum muscles, to the periosteum of the tibia and to the I integuments. These twigs anastomose internally with those of the posterior tibial artery, and externally with those of the fibular. It also furnishes several posteriorly, which pass through the inter- osseous ligament, and lose themselves in the posterior and deep muscles of the leg. 2649. Near the ankle, the anterior tibial artery gives off two branches of larger size, an inner and outer. The inner, which is named the Internal Malleolar Artery, (Art. malleolar is interna) passes transversely behind the tendon of the tibialis anticus, to the inner malleolus, and descends upon the neighbouring part of the tibio-tarsal articulation and of the tarsus itself, where it divides into small twigs, which communicate with those of the posterior tibial artery. The oiiter branch, or External Malleolar Artery (Art. malleolaris externa), gUdes behind the tendons of the ex- tensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles, descends along the outer malleolus, passes over the ankle-joint, and gives it some ramifications, as well as to the corresponding side of the tar- sus. It communicates with the peroneal artery, the dorsal artery of the foot, and the external plantar. 2660. Of the Dorsal Artery of the Foot. This is the direct continuation of the anterior tibial artery, and extends from the ankle-joint to posterior extremity of the first metatarsal bone, "where it enters beneath the first tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, to gain the sole of the foot by passing vertically through the first dorsal interosseous muscle (1465). In this course, the artery, which is shghtly flexuous, and directed obhquely from without inwards, and from behind forwards, is successively covered by the skin, the tendons of the extensor longus, and the extensor brevis, digitorum, and gives oflT branches, which are dis- tinguished into internal and external. 2651. Internal Branches. They are very numerous, but slen- der, and are distributed vipon the corresponding edge of the foot, ■where they anastomose with those of the internal plantar artery. 2652. External Branches. They are more numerous and of larger size. They ramify upon the back of the foot, and in the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. Two of them have received particular names. 2653. Tarsal Artery (Arteria tarsea). It arises opposite the head of the os naviculare, and proceeds outwards and a little for- wards under the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, as far as the outer edge of the foot, where it passes under the tendon of the peroneus longus. In this course, it gives a great number of twigs to the extensor brevis digitorum and to the ligaments of the tarsus, and terminates by several small twigs which anastomose with those of the external plantar artery.