ACTIVE OIIGAWS OF LOCOJ\JOT10N. 390 the abductor polhcis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti, as well as the plantar vessels and nerves. The upper .sur- face IS covered by the calcaneum, the inferior and superficial calca- neo-cuboid ligament (756), and by the extremity of the abductor mmimi digiti. This muscle serves as an auxiliary to the flexor longus, and rcc- tihes its obliquity. OK THE LUMUUICALES. 1450. Similar in form, number, and disposition to those of the. hand (1234), these four small muscles extend from the tendons of the flexor longus to the last four toes. The first, M-hich is the longest and largest, arises from the inner edge and upper surface of the flexor tendon of the second toe; the other three, which di- minish successively in volume from within outwards, arise from the interval which the four tendons of the flexor longus leave between them at their separation. They all proceed horizontally forwards, diverging a little, and terminate each by a tendon, appearing at first on one of their surfaces and afterwards becommg isolated, which passes between the slips of the plantar aponeurosis, runs along the inner edge of the last four metatarso-phalangeal articula- tions, and is at length inserted into the inner and lower part of the base of the flrst phalanx of each of the last toes, sending a thin aponeurosis to their extensor tendon, in the same manner as in the hand (1234). 1451. Their inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis. The upper lies beneath the adductor pollicis, transversus pedis, and the interossei plantares. 1452. They carry the toes a little inwards, and contribute to bend the first phalanges, and extend the second and third. Of THE TKANSVEKSUS PEDIS. 1453. This muscle is thin, long, and flat, and extends trans- versely beneath the heads of the last four metatarsal bones. It is about an inch in breadth, and arises, by distinct and fasciculated aponeurotic fibres, from the ligaments of the last four metatarso- jphalangeal articulations; there result from this, four small parallel slips, more distinct behind than before, which unite together, and are attached, along with the adductor pollicis, to the outer edge of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Its inferior surface covers the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the lumbricales, and the collateral nerves and vessels of the toes. The 7ipper surface corresponds to the interossei. This muscle carries the great toe outwards, and brings nearer to each other the heads of the metatarsal bones.