OF THE SACRAL NKRVES. 511 tlie sciatic plexus. Tliey are distributed to tlie ischio-coccygeus, levator ani and sphincter ani muscles. OF THE SCIATIC Oil SACIIAL PLEXUS. 1828. It is particularly formed, as we have already said, by the ; anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, and by those of the first I four sacral nerves. It occupies the lateral and posterior part of t the excavation of the pelvis, and lies upon the pyriformis muscle, 1 behind the hypogastric vessels, the rectum and bladder, the viterus ; and a great quantity of adipose tissue. Its breadth is much greater i internally, where it is limited by the anterior sacral holes, than ex- t ternally, where it is continuous with the sciatic nerve; and its ! structure is different from that of the other plexuses which we have i hitherto had occasion to examine. In place of forming a kind of net-work, by sending twigs to each other, the branches of which it : is formed join immediately, so as to give rise to a thick nerve : flattened from before backwards. 1829- The branches and twigs which it furnishes may be dis- tinguished into anterior and posterior. The former, which arise ' especially from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and whose num- ber is very variable, are the hemorrhoidal, vesical, vaginal, and uterine nerves. OF THE ANTEniOIl BRANCHES AND TWIGS OF THE SCIATIC PLEXUS. 1830. HcBmorrhoidal Nerves. They direct themselves towards the lower part of the rectum, penetrate its posterior wall, and se- parate into ascending filaments, which proceed upwards toward the sigmoid flexure of the colon and descending filaments, which extend to the sphincter ani. Their ramifications stop in part in the muscular coat of the intestine, and are in part expanded in its mucous membrane. 1831. Vesical Nei'ves. These nerves vary in number, and arc irregularly interlaced, like the preceding, from which they often ansa in part. They pass over the sides of the rectum, and gain the lateral parts and fundus of the bladder, to the muscular fibres and mucous membrane of which they are distributed. Some of their filaments are expanded, in the male, in the prostate gland and vesiculas seminales, and, in the female, in the walls of the urethra. 1832. Uterine and Vaginal Nerves. These nerves exist only m the female. They arise in part separately, in part confounded with the preceding, pass over the sides of the rectum, and pene- trate, separating from each other into the whole extent of the la- teral parts of the vagina, to the mucous membrane of which they