2 T 4 LEFT VENTRICLE. ' CLI OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE. ( Ventnculus Sinistei- s. Posterior.) 2267- It occupies the posterior and left part of the heart. It is aa Uttle narrower, but longer than the right, and advances more laipon the summit of the organ. Its form is that of a pyramid a llittle flattened; but, as its walls are very thick, it never presents tthe same falling in as the opposite ventricle. At its exterior, it ppresents nothing remarkable, only that the fat is less abundant tbhere than on the right side. In the interior, it presents columnje earner similar to those of tthe right ventricle (2255), but less numerous and less irregularly [disposed. Two of these fleshy bundles, which are larger than the ^others, and free at their circumference, arise, the one before, tho it)ther behind, and a little beneath the middle part of the walls of :;;he ventricle, by several distinct and smaller bundles, ascend ob- iquely towards the base of the heart, and terminate by a round- xl or bifurcated extremity, from the summit of which proceed a multitude of very slender divergent tendons, frequently cross- ng each other, which attach themselves to the free edge of the nitral valve. 2268. The base of the left ventricle presents two apertures. One of these, the Left, Auricula-ventricular Ori^ce, which is ' posterior and larger, leads into the auricle, and is nearly elliptical, .^ike that of the right side, it is surrounded with a whitish zone, ii,nd furnished with a membraneous fold, called the Mitral Valve, (oecause its free edge is divided into two slips, to which are attach- dd the chordie teudineae; one of these slips is applied upon the iiiouth of the aorta, which it almost entirely closes when the ventri- 'ile is dilated. This valve is thicker than the tricuspid valve, and ro-equcntly contains small hard fibro-cartilaginous tubercles, and vometimes even bony plates. The other aperture is to the right and anteriorly of the latter. ; t leads into the aorta, and is furnished with three Semilunar ^alves, similar to those at the entrance of the pulmonary artery :*2257)- It is above their free edge that the orifices of the two noronary arteries of the heart are seen. This orifice of the aorta is urrounded with a callous ring, forming the true boundary between iirte tissue of the heart and that of the artery. It is right to ob- ■fsrvc also, that in the places which correspond to the sigmoid ^lalves, the walls of the aorta are dilated, and thus form three pro- liaeuces {Sinuses of Valsalva) at the exterior ORGANIZATION OF THE HEART. i 2269. Muscular Tissue of the Auricles.—The v!9\\fi of tlie au-