MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 389 rVhich it is intimately connected behind. The upper surface is ^covered by the lumbricales and accessory muscle of the flexor Jongus, by the plantar vessels and nerves, and by the tendons of Ithe Hexor longus. Its inner edge is connected posteriorly with the 1 abductor poUicis, from which it is separated anteriorly by the ten- ddon of the flexor longus, and by a portion of the flexor brevis of tithe great toe. The outer edge is united posteriorly with the ab- (iductor minimi digiti, and contiguous anteriorly to the flexor bre- vvis minimi digiti. 1445. It bends the second phalanges of the toes upon the first, a and these upon the metatarsal bones. It also augments the con- (cavity of the arch of the foot. ix ;> OF THE ABDUCTOIl MINIMI DIGITI PEDIS. ' 1446. It lies beneath the outer edge of the foot, and is long, t flat, broader and thicker posteriorly than anteriorly. It arises : from the inferior surface of the calcaneum, on the outside of the flexor brevis digitorum, by short aponeurotic fibres; from a fibrous partition which separates it from the flexor brevis digitorum; from the plantar aponeurosis, and from the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone, by a tendon, which is continuous with that aponeurosis. From thence, it advances beneath the inferior sur- face of that bone, diminishing in size. Its fibres then terminate successively upon a tendon which is inserted into the outside of the corresponding extremity of the first phalanx of the little toe. 1447- Its inferior surface covers the plantar aponeurosis, to which it is strongly united behind. The upper is covered by the accessorius muscle, the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, the ten- don of the peroneus longus, the posterior extremity of the fifth me- tatarsal bone, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti, which is seen an- teriorly between its inner edge and the flexor brevis communis, which is united to it beliind. 1448. It carries the little toe outwards, and bends it a little. OF THE MUSCULUS ACCESSOHIUS. 1449. It is situated at the back part of the sole of the foot, and IS of a quadrilateral form, flat and thin. It arises by means of aponeurotic fibres, and by two distinct bundles, from the lower and inner surfaces of the calcaneum, whence it proceeds forwards and a little inwards, in a horizontal direction. Its fibres, which are all parallel, terminate on the outer and upper part of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum pedis, near the point where it cUvides. . frequently present there an aponeurosis prolonged upon their inner edge, while that by which they are attached to the calcaneum is more distinct at their outer edge. Its inferior surface covers