^7'!' ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION." The pyriformis, gemelli, tlie tendon of the obturator internus and quadratus femoris are to be freed from cellular tissue, and se- parated from each other, but the obturator internus cannot be all L examined until a section of the pelvis is made, wlien the attach- ! ment of the pyriformis to the sacrum will be also seen. To see the obturator externus : the inferior part of the psoas, the pectine- us, and the adductors, require to be raised from the fore part of the thigh, and the quadratus femoris from the back part. MUSCLES OF THE POSTERlOfl PART OF THE THIGH. OF THIC BICEPS FI.EXOR CRUKIS. - 1384. The Biceps (Biceps femoris) is simple below, and sepa- rated above into two bundles : of these, one is longer and rounded, f and attached to the upper and outer part of the tuber ischii by a tendon, common to it and the semi-tendinosus (1387), which after- wards degenerates into an aponeurosis extending to the middle of the thigh ; this bundle descends from thence outwards, becoming larger, and is incorporated with the other bundle, which is shorter, flattened, quadrilateral, broader at the middle than the extremi- ties, and attached by .short aponeuroses to a large portion of the outer lip of the linea aspera, between the adductor muscles and vastus externus, from which it is separated by a lamina of the fas- cia lata. The two portions of the muscle are connected by means of an aponeurosis, commencing very high upon the first, and ter- minate in a common tendon, which is accompanied very low by the fibres of the second. This tendon bifurcates to be inserted in- to the top of the fibula, embracing the lower extremity of the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the knee joint (717)- The anterior branch of this bifurcation, which is smaller than the other, sends off a prolongation which passes over the tipper articulation of the tibia and fibula ; the posterior branch contributes to the formation of the aponevirosis of the leg. 1385. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the glutosus maximus and fascia lata. The anterior lies upon the semi-membranosus, vastus externus, and adductor magnus muscles, the sciatic nerve, the femur, and the external lateral hgament of the knee. The long portion moreover covers the short, which is applied upon the external superior articular artery, and the external " head of the gastrocnemius. Its inner edge concurs with the semi- membranosus muscle (1391) to form the ham. 1386. This muscle bends the leg upon the thigh, or the latter upon the leg. Its long portion is capable of extending the thigh upon the pelvis, pr of keeping the pelvis erect. It also rotates the leg outwards.