778 ORGAN^i Of SECRpyiON. upon the fore part of the ball of the eye by the small ducts which we have just mentioned. OF THE CAKUNCULA LACHRYMALIS. 2860. The Caruncula Lachrymalis is a small reddish tubercle, of a pyramidal form, varying as to size in different subjects, situat- ed in the inner angle of the eyelids, at the fore part of the ball of the eye, behind and within the puncta lachrymalia. Its base is di- rected backwards and inwards, its summit forwards and outwards (1941). The caruncula lachrymahs is nothing else than a mass of small mucous crypts, whose number is very uncertain, which are invest- ed by the conjunctiva, which forms anteriorly and externally of them a similunar fold, known by the name of Membrana nictitans, much more apparent in certain classes of animals that in man. Each iOf the orifices of these small crypts is furnished with hairs of ex- cessive delicacy, and visible only by the microscope. , The caruncula lachrymalis receives some filaments of the nasal nerve, and some vascular ramifications. Its use appears to be to jretain the tears in the inner angle of the eye, and furnish a pecu- liar sebaceous fluid. OF THE PUNCTA LACHRYMALIA AND LACHEYMAL DUCTS, 2861. The Puncta lachrymalia are two in number, one for each eyelid. They are very small apertures, more or less apparent in different individuals, commonly of a blackish colour, and occupy- ing the centre of a small tubercle, slightly inclined backwards, and situated at the distance of about a line and a half from the inter- nal commissure of the eyelids, at the place where their edge changes its direction. These orifices are always open. A small mucous rim, of a whitp tint, margins their circumference. They are placed opposite each other, but that .of the lower eyelid is directed upwards, outwards and backwards, and that of the upper, downwards, and also put- wards and backwards, so that when the eyelids are closed, they only touch each other on the side next the skin. 2862. The puncta lachrymalia are the external orifices of tlxe lachrymal ducts which carry the tears into the lachrymal sac, through the eyelids, and whose diameter is a little longer than the circumference of the puncta lachrymalia themselves, which makes these canals appear slightly contracted at their origin. The la- chrymal ducts are distinguished into superior and inferior, accord- ing to the eyelid to which they belong. 2863. The Superior lachrytjial duct, which is a little longer than the inferior, ascends at first vertically for the space of about a line, then bends nearly at a right angle, and proceeds inwards