OF THE SUB-CLAVIAN AllTEUIES. OF THE SUB-CLAVIAN ARTERIES. (Arteries SuhclavicB.) 2386. They are situated upon the superior part of the thorax, aand lateral and inferior parts of the neck. At their origin, they ppresent some differences on the right and left, which it is of iraport- aance to observe. ' 2387- The right, which is generally a little larger than the left, aarises upon the corresponding side of the trachea from the ar- tteria innominata. The left separates from the aorta at the end oof its arch : Both extend as far as the upper part of the first rib, iin the interval of the scaleni muscles; but the right is obvi- oously shorter than the left. They also differ in their position, di- rrection, and relations to the neighbouring organs. Thus the right subclavian is more superficial than the left, which sappears to depend especially upon the direction of the arch of the aaorta. The right directs itself obliquely outwards and upwards as ffar as the interval of the scaleni muscles ; the left ascends vertical- Hy to near them ; and suddenly turns outwards to pass into their iinterval. Thus the anterior side of the right subclavian is covered, from within outwards, by the clavicle, the sterno-hyoidei and sterno- t'thyroidei muscles, the corresponding sub-clavian vein, and the right ppneumo-gastric and phrenic nerves, which cross its direction. Its ^posterior side is separated from the vertebral column and longus ccolli muscle by a pretty large interval. Its outer side comes some- what near the top of the lung, and the inner leaves a triangular sspace between it and the right common carotid artery. The anterior side of the left sub-clavian is covered at first by ithe lung and vena innominata, then by the pneumo-gastric nerve, wwhich instead of crossing its direction, runs parallel to it. Lastly, •the first rib, the clavicle and the sterno-thyroideus muscle are ap- |iplied upon it in a distant manner. Its posterior side rests imme^ ddiately upon the vertebral column and longus colli muscle. Its I'oUfer side lies upon the pleura, which separates it from the lung ; itthe inner corresponds to the common carotid artery. I '*'2388. ' The subclavian arteries traverse a considerable space ^without furnishing any branch ; but in the vicinity of the first rib, 'before passing between the scaleni muscles; they give off a pretty large number, of which the vertebral and inferior thyroid come off from its upper side; the internal mammary and superior intercostal ' from its lower, and the transverse cervical, supra-scapular and deep . cervical from the outer. 2 X