OF THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 403 OF THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. {Ramus Tertius Quinti Nervi.) 1660. This branch is the largest of those of the fifth pair ; but its course within the skull is shorter than that of the others. Pro- ceeding outwards and forwards, it issues from the cranium by the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone, and is composed of two dis- tinct portions. Of these portions the outer and larger, which is plexiform, triangular and flattened, comes from the Gasserian gang- lion ; the other, which is concealed by this portion, is formed by the larger white filaments of which we have spoken (1643), and is composed of parallel filaments, not united into a plexus. These two portions issue separately through the foramen ovale, and only unite in the zygomatic fossa, where the small portion becomes an- terior, and appears to be particularly continued into the buccal and one of the deep temporal twigs. 1661. Arrived in the zygomatic fossa, between the sphenoid bone and the pterygoideus externus muscle, the iiiferior maxiUary nerve divides into two principal trunks. One, which is superior and external, gives rise to the deep temporal, masseteric, buccal and pterygoid twigs. The other, which is inferior and internal, is larger, and furnishes the inferior dentar, lingual and auricular twigs. 1662. Deep Temporal Branches (Nervi temporales profundi J. They are commonly two, and sometimes three in number; in some subjects there is only one. They arise separately or by a common trunk. However this may be, one of them, the anterior, which is sometimes furnished by the buccal nerve, proceeds forwards into the deepest part of the temporal fossa, after being for some time prolonged horizontally between the pterygoideus externus and the upper wall of the zygomatic fossa. The other, which is pos- terior, sometimes arises from the masseteric nerve, follows at first the same course, but presently becomes more superficial. Both turn over the temporal bone to ascend between the temporal muscle and the fossa of the same name, and subdivide into a great number of filaments which lose themselves in the substance of that muscle, or anastomose together or with ramifications of the facial nerve, by means of small apertures with which its aponeurosis is perforated. The anterior twig anastomoses moreover with the lachrymal nerve (1648), and with a filament of the orbitar twig ot the superior maxillary nerve (1656) which traverses the cheek- bone. 16G3. Masseteric Branch (Nervns Massetericus). Situated •behind the preceding twigs, it is nearly of the same size as they, ^nd also proceeds at first horizontally outwards and backwards be- tween the pterygoideus externus and the upper wall of the zygo- matic fossa, before the transverse root of the zygomatic process.