OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 51 angles more or less acute. Two of these edges are inferior, and present anteriorly an elongated surfixce, not very well defined, which belongs to the side of the basilar process, unites with the inferior edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and is limited behind by a deep notch which concurs to form the foramen lacerum posterius ; sometimes this notch is divided into two por- tions by a small bony process which the temporal bone also occa- sionally suppUes. Behind this, is a square eminence, covered with cartilage, which is articulated to the temporal bone, and is named the Jugular process. It seems to divide this edge into two nearly equjil parts, of which one has just been described, the other, which is situated higher, is concave, and indented, and articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. 166. The Superior Edges, which are articulated with the pa- rietal bones, are very much notched and serrated. They frequent- ly present ossa Wormii entangled in their serratures. The angle which these two edges form by their junction is generally acute ; it is often, however, truncated, and in that case a wormian bone of considerable size occupies its place. The two lateral angles re- sulting from their union with the lower edges are much more ob- tuse, and are articulated with the mastoid portions of the temporal bones. 167. The two inferior edges do not meet anteriorly, but are se- parated by a square rough surface, covered with cartilage, which terminates the basilar process anteriorly for the purpose of its arti- culation to the posterior surface of the sphenoid bone. 168. Structure. The occipital bone is rather thin except at the condyles, the basilar process, and toward the ridges and protube- rances, in which places there is much cellular tissue interspersed between the compact tables, whereas in the middle of its fossas, it is entirely composed of compact tissue, and is there so thin as to be semitransparent. 169. Articulations. The occipital bone is articulated to the sphenoid, the temporal and parietal bones, and the atlas, by the various points already mentioned. 170.^ Development. At birth the occipital bone, whose ossifica- tion is of the most complex nature, appears to be formed by four centres, which commence at the basilar surface, at each condyle, and at the external protuberance. These four pieces form at that period so many distinct bones, which have been described as such under the names of the proral or squamous, condyloid and basilar bones. From these different points the fibres radiate in all directions, and meet, on the one hand, behind the great occipital hole, and on the other, at the middle part of the condyles. But if the bone be examined long before birth, it is discovered that the occipital portion properly so called, or that situated above the con- owes its development to four osseous nuclei which unite at the protuberance, and which are but a short time distinct from each other, especially the two upper. At that period also, but only in