ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOX. 234 the microscope. The last of these filaments that can he perceived, do not appear to he hollow, as some anatomists have alleged. On examining them with the microscope, Sir Everard Home, Bauer, Prevost, Dumas, and Beclard, found that the finest muscular fibres are identical with the particles of the blood deprived of their colour- ing matter, and whose central globules are united into filaments, by a sort of jelly or mucus, the essential nature of which is not yet understood. Their colour is accidental, and does not exist in all red-blooded animals, some of which have tlie muscles white; but in the greater number their tint is very decided, and becomes deeper and deeper with age. 779- A variable number of muscular fibres, therefore, united into fasciculi, and forming a distinct mass, varying much as to size and form, having its extremities attached to the bones by means of tendons or aponeuroses, constitutes a muscle, in which there is dis- tinguished cellular tissue as the basis, together with ramifications of nerves, arteries, veins, and lymphatics. It is in fact from the union of all these different organic systems, that the muscular sys- tem really results, which of itself forms the greater part of the vo- lume, and a great part of the weight, of the body. 780. Tlie Celhilar Tissue is an important element of the mus- cular system. It connects the fleshy fibres ; it is not very visible between the smaller fibres, but becomes more so in proportion as they unite into larger fasciculi, and forms for each of the latter a sheath in which they are inclosed. After uniting several of these fasciculi to form an entire muscle, the cellular tissue consti- tutes a very distinct layer around it, and this layer in most cases is of a membranous appearance, rather loose, and filled with fat in greater or less quantity according to the subject. It is of it that the general sheath of the united fasciculi is constituted ; the cellu- lar tissue of the muscles may thus be considered as a collection of envelopes contained within each other, and diminishing in thick- ness and denseness from without inwards, so that those which sur- round the fasciculi of a lower order are in a manner invisible, their tenuity and softness being so great. 781. Now, this cellular tissue of which we have already had re- peated occasion te speak, is itself an assemblage of lamellfc, of very minvite, soft whitish filaments, crossing each other in a multitude of different directions, leaving in their intervals areola?, consisting of numerous irregular cellules, which communicate with each other. This tissue surrounds and penetrates all the organs of the system (16. A.) ; it is the seat of a serous exhalation, the product of which is accumulated in greater or less quantity in its cellules. It must not be confounded with another tissue, also very extensively distributed, and which is immersed in its substance ; I mean the Adipose Tissue (16. A. a.) This, which is in particular very abundant in the general cellular envelope of the muscles, is com- posed of small masses, pretty regularly rounded, agglomerated and connected with each other: each of these granulations is a small