176 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ARTICULATIONS OF THE FACE. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER JAW. 573. We have already described the manner in which tlic facei is articulated with the cranium (363), and pointed out the different sutures which the bones of the face itself form by their union. We shall only here remark, that in the recent state all their junctions are similar in their composition to those of the cranium (572) ; that sutures seem to circumscribe the face, and occupy its surface, wiiilst harmonia; are placed at the centre, and that the interval be- tween the surfaces of both orders is occupied by a more or less di.s tinct cartilage. ARTICULATION OF THE LOWER JAW. 574. This articulation, which belongs to the order of arthrodiae is double, but it is the same on both sides. It is formed by th glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the tuber articulare of th same bone (172, 173) on the one hand, and the condyle of the in ferior maxillary bone (253) on the other. The glenoid cavity, of which the outer extremity is a little more anterior than the inner is only articular in its fore part, which is covered with a very thin cartilage prolonged over the tuber articulare. The condyle of the jaw is also covered with a thin cartilage, which is insensibly lof^t towards the neck. These surfaces are kept in connexion by several ligaments. 575. Ewternal Lateral Ligament. This is a thin, short, and narrow fasciculus, with nearly parallel fibres connected by a dense cellular tissue : it is a little broader at its upper part than below It is attached above to the rough surface, which separates the com mencement of the roots of the zygomatic process (172)? and des cends from thence obliquely backwards, to terminate at the outci side of the neck of the inferior maxillary bone. Its outer surface is covered by the skin and parotid gland; the iniier is appliet against the synovial capsules and inter-articular fibro-cartilage. 576. Internal Lateral Ligament. This is thinner and longci than the outer. It arises from the spinous process of the sphenoic bone and the parts in its vicinity, and descends obliquely forwards becoming broad and membranous as it proceeds, and is attached t( the inner and foreside of the orifice of the inferior dentar canal Its fibres are divergent, especially below. Its outer surface corres ponds above to the synovial capsules and external pterygoid mus clcs ; the internal maxillary artery passes between it and the necl of the condyle ; and the inferior dentar vessels and nerve hav connexions with it fartlicr down, and separate it from the ramus 0 the lower maxillary bone. Itfc inner surface rests upon the inter