ORGANS OF SENSATION. 422 the posterior and inner part of the same crura. It there meets with a large mass of cineritious matter, receives new filaments from it, which follow various directions in its interior, and constitute the Thalami Nervorum Opticorum, (CoUiculi Nervorum Opticorum, Soemm.) {Inferior Great Ganglia of the Brain, Gall.) 1533. These thalami of the optic nerves are invested with a white substance. More voluminous behind than before, they cor- respond partly in the lateral ventricles, partly in the third, and partly at the exterior of the brain ; their figure is rounded and irregular. Their upper surface forms a part of the floor of the la- teral ventricles; it presents a slight depression in its longitudinal direction, and a small ovoidal tubercle at each of its extremities. The inferior surface presents externally two prominences, {Cor- pora Geniculata), which furnish several filaments to the optic nerves, and is seen at the inferior surface of the cerebrum. The inner surface, constitutes the lateral walls of the third ven- tricle ; it is flat, directed obliquely from within outwards, and from above downwards, and is connected anteriorly with that of the op- posite side by a transverse band {Commissura mollis), of a gray colour, very easily broken, and varying in form and size. The outei' surface is confounded with the corpus striatum, of which we shall presently speak. Their anterior ewtremity contributes to the aper- ture of comravinication between the lateral and third ventricles. The posterior, which is free, and contiguous to the corpus fimbri- atum, corresponds to the curve of the lateral ventricles. It is between the bundles which proceed from the corpora pyra- midalia and olivaria, in the very midst of the crura cerebri and optic thalami, that the upper part of the canals is observed, wliich prevail along the spinal marrow (1529) ; and as these bundles change their direction in the course of their progress, the anterior passing outwards and the posterior inwards, the direction of this part of the canal also experiences a marked deviation. 1534. Before and to the outside of the thalami of the optic nerves, the fibrous bundles of the corpora olivaria meet a new mass of cineritious substance, are expanded and acquire a fresh augmen- tation from it, and form together with it the Corpora Striata^ {Great superior ganglions of the brai?i. Gall.) of which there are two, one on each side of the brain. These bodies are pyriform eminences, broad before, contracted behind, and placed obliquely, so that while they are very near each other anteriorly, they are widely separated posteriorly; their colour at the outside is gray, somewhat tinged with brown. There are observed at their surface very remarkable venous ramifications, which are the radicles of the VencB Galeni. The corpora striata form part of the floor of the late- ral ventricles; they are contiguous to the corpus callosum by their upper surface, and to the septum lucidum by the inner. On cut- ting them obliquely and at different heights, the cineritious and medullary substances are seen disposed in their interior in alternate streaks, of variable form and breadth. With a little care, it is ob-