610 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. mifications form a very delicate net-work in the substance of tl)e mucous membrane. These arteries arc extremely flexuous, on ac-r count of the changes of volume to -which the stomach is exposed. The veins of the stomach bear the same name, and follow the same course as the arteries. They pour their blood into the trunk of the vena porta, or into one of its principal branches. Like the arteries, they anastomose with each other a great number of times. 2164. The lymphatic vessels of the stomach ai-ise at its inner or outer surface, and present for the most part their principal trunks under the peritoneum. They may be referred to three orders. They go particularly to the ganglions placed along the two curvatures, as we shall make known afterwards. 2165. The nerves of the stomach come particularly from the pneumo-gastric nerves (1712), and the three divisions of the caliac plexus (1915). Of the Duodenum. CONFOUMATION AND GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2166. The Duodenum,* (Ventriculus succenturiatm,) by wliich the intestines, properly so called, commence, immediately succeeds to the stomach. It is less voluminous than that organ, but has a greater diameter than the rest of the digestive canal, and is sus- ceptible of great dilatation. It occupies the deep middle part of the abdomen, where it is concealed by the transverse mesocolon or by the stomach. 2167- The direction of the duodenum is such that it may be divided into three portions. The first, which is about two inches long, commences at the valve of the pylorus (2162), proceeds ho- rizontally backwards and to the right, and ends near the neck of the gall-bladder, uniting angularly with the second, which has a variable length, and which descends vertically and a little to the left, as far as the third lumbar vertebra. The third portion is di- rectly continuous with the second, with which it does not form an angle; it proceeds transversely to the left, before the vertebral co- lumn, and ends by being directed upwards and forwards, toward the upper extremity of the mesentery, above the superior mesen- teric vessels, which cross its direction, and are embraced by a kind of curve which it forms for them. The first portion is covered, in the greater part of its extent, by the peritoneum, and is in connexion with the hepato-gastric omen- tum ; it is often tinged yellow by the transudation of the bile. The^ second has no other connexion with the peritoneum than that ot • It is so named ou account of its length being commonly estimated at twelve finger-breadtlis.