OF THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. 777 each orbit, to the inferior meatuses of the nasal fossos. These two apparatuses are pretty frequently designated by the collective name of Vice lachrymales. Each of them consists of the lachry- mal gland, the puncta lachryraalia, lachrymal ducts, lachrymal sac, and nasal canal. OF THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. 2856. The Lachrymal Gland (Glandula Lachrymalis), is lodged in a depression of the frontal bone, at the upper, outer, and fore part of the orbit. Its size is generally about that of a small almond, but its form is hable to vary. Most commonly it repre- sents an ovoid flattened from above downwards, and from without inwards, whose greatest diameter is directed from before backwards. Its colour is light yellow inchning to red. 2857- Convex externally and above, the lachrymal gland cor- responds in this direction to the periosteum of the orbit, and is connected with it by a multitude of small filaments which proceed from the one to the other. Slightly concave at its inner and un- der parts, it rests upon the ball of the eye and its external rectus muscle, from which it is separated by a thick layer of adipose tis- sue. Anteriorly, it is protected by the rim of the orbit, and a little by the upper eyelid. Posteriorly, it is immersed in the adi- pose cellular tissue of the orbit. 2858. The lachrymal gland is composed of a considerable num- ber of lobules connected by cellular tissue, and separated from each other by vessels and nerves which creep in their uitervals. These lobules themselves are formed of rounded granulations, of a reddish white colour, in which the last ramifications of arteries terminate, and in which the radicles of the veins commence, but whose more intimate structure is still entirely unknown. It is presumed that from each of them issues a small excretory canal, ■which by uniting with others in its vicinity, gives rise to trunks ■which are somewhat more distinct, although still extremely slender and very little apparent in man. However, according to the testi- mony of several eminent anatomists, who have seen and injected them, it appears that they are six or seven in number, and that they open, internally of the upper eyelid, at some distance from the outer part of the corresponding tarsal cartilage. Their orifices, which are separated by pretty narrow intervals, are seen, it is said, upon the conjunctiva, where their series forms a curved line, the convexity of which is directed upwards and outwards. 2859. A fibro-cellular capsule of considerable thickness enve- lopes the lachrymal gland, and sends partitions into its substance, ■Tvhich separate the lobules from each other. Moreover, the lachry- mal artery (2360), the vein (2696), and the nerve of the same name, must be considered as contributing to the composition of • this gland, the use of whicli is to secrete the tears and pour them