VERTEBRAL COLUMN. ^7 the occipital bone, forms laterally with it two right angles, and pre- sents a laro-ehole, which is the commencement of the vertebral canal. 72. Vertebral Canal (€onalis pro medulla spinali.) This canal extends along the whole length of the spine, following its various curvatures, and placed nearer its posterior' than its ante- rior part. Above, it is continuous with the cavity of the'skull; below, with the sacral canal. It is wide in the neck and in the upper part of the back, it then contracts to be again enlarged in the loins. It is triangular above and below, and rounded in the middle. Anteriorly, it is formed by the posterior part of the bodies of the vertebrfe, which are covered by the posterior vertebral ligament. Posteriorly, by the vertebral laminae, and the holes that occur be- tween them; and on the sides, the inner part of the transverse pro- cesses, and the intervertebral foramina, are the objects which it presents. 73. Uses. The spine, which combines lightness with solidity and flexibility, serves to support the head and chest. It is the seat of all the motions of the trunk, of which it transmits the weight to the pelvis. It lodges and protects the spinal marrow and the membranes which invest .it. It gives passage to the spinal nerves and to many vessels. It affords insertion to numerous muscles and ligaments, both anteriorly and posteriorly. OF THE CHEST OR THORAX. 74. The Chest, or Thorax, {Pectus,) is a large cavity of a coni- cal form, somewhat flattened anteriorly, placed before the dorsal region of the vertebral column, composed of bones and cartilages connected by ligaments, and containing the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is formed in the middle and ante- teriorly by the sternum ; on either side by twelve ribs; and poste- riorly and mesially by the dorsal vertebrae already described. OF THE STEKNUM, Oil BREAST-BONE. (OSSA STERNI.) 75. The Sternum is composed of three bones placed one above another. These bones are in the adult most commonly joined to- gether and then they form a symmetrical, elongated, flattened bone, thicker and broader above than below, and undulated on its edges by a series of articular cavities for receiving the cartilages of the true ribs. Its direction is from above downwards, and it is inclin- ed forwards, so that its lower extremity is anterior to the upper. 7^)- Its anterior or outer surface, which is covered by the in- teguments, and more immediately by the aponeuroses of the large pectoral and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, is marked with four ^^^A^a- ^^^^ P^'ominent transverse lines, which indicate the limits of the different pieces of which this bone is formed in early age. The two upper lines are more distinctly marked than the others. It is sljghtly rounded.