ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. thinnest. They follow all kinds of directions, and are interlaced with each other, so as to represent a net-work, leaving between them depressions, differing in form and dimensions. 2256. The base of the right ventricle is perforated by two aper- tures. One of these, the Right Auriculo-ventricular Orifice, which is situated posteriorly, is separated from the other by an interval of abovit an inch, communicates with the auricle, and is furnished with a membraneous fold, named the Tricuspid valve, on account of its commonly being divided into three triangular portions. One of the surfaces of this valve is turned towards the walls of the ven- tricle, and the other towards the cavity of the auricle. Its adhe- rent edge is attached to the circumference of the orifice, and sur- rounds it without interruption. Its free and mobile edge is con- nected with the chordfE tendineaj (2255). It is very irregular, and presents variable intersections, among which, however, there are always remarked three of larger size than the rest. One of these, which is triangular, longer and broader than the others, and di- rected upwards and forwards, exactly closes, when it is laid down, the entrance of the pulmonary artery. This valve, which is thin and transparent in its whole extent, becomes decidedly thicker at its free edge, for the attachment of the small tendons, of which we have spoken. The other aperture of the base of the ventricle is of smaller size than the preceding, and leads to the pulmonary artery. OF THE PULMONARY AKTERY. (^Art. Pulmonaris). 2257. This artery, which carries into the lungs the blood to be submitted to the action of respiration, arises from the upper and left part of the right ventricle, within which its orifice is surrounded by a callous ring, indicating the limit of the fleshy fibres of the heart; but, externally, these fibres descend upon the artery, over an extent of about half a line. This orifice is moreover furnished internally with three membraneous folds, which are named Sig- moid or Semilunar Valves. They adhere to the artery by their whole convex and inferior surface, and present above a free, hori- zontal, and straight edge, on the middle of which there is a small prominent tubercle, of a fibro-cartilaginous consistence (corpuscu- lum Arantii). They are in contact at their extremities, and are thin and transparent. When let down, they completely close the artery, and prevent the blood which it contains from entering into the ventricle. 2258. Immediately after its commencement, the pulmonary ar- tery directs itself obliquely upwards and to the left, crossing the course of tlie aorta, to which it is united by an abundant adipose