728' ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. tery, then loses itself in the adipose cellular tissue placed between the tibia and the ligament of the patella, and a superficial, whicli ascends upon the latter bone, and anastomoses witli the external superior articular artery. 2643. Before dividing, this artery, as we have already said, gives twigs to the popliteus, plantaris and soleus muscles. All the others are expanded upon the other part of the knee joint. 2G44. After furnishing the inferior articular arteries, the pop- liteal descends vertically behind the popliteus muscle; and, near the liead of the fibula, gives off pretty large twigs to the upper part of the soleus muscle. There also separates from it anteriorly, about the same place, a large brancli which is named the Anterior Tibial Artery. Then after a course of about an inch, it divides into two branches, which are the Fibular and Posterior Tibial Arteries. OF THE ANTEllIOR TIBIAL ARTEEY. {Art. Tibialis Antica). 2645. Directed horizontally forwards at its commencement, it sends some twigs to the tibialis posticus and flexor longus commu- nis digitorum muscles, as well as to the posterior part of the knee joint, and immediately after passes through the upper extremity of the tibialis posticus and the interosseous ligament. It then places itself at the fore part of the leg, descends obliquely first between the extensor longus digitorum and tibialis anticus, and then be- tween the latter and the extensor longus pollicis, gradually ap- proaching the tibia over which it passes below. It then slips un- der the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus, between the ex- tensor communis digitorum pedis and extensor proprius pollicis, and henceforth assumes the name of Dorsal Artery of the foot. 2646. The jjosterior side of this artery lies, in its four upper fifths, upon the interosseous ligament, and in its lower fifth, upon the tibia. Its anterior side is successively covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor communis digitorum and extensor proprius polli- cis. The tendon of the latter muscle is the only part which sepa- rates it from the skin below. The inoier side is placed against the tibialis anticus muscle and the tibia. The outer corresponds above to the fibula and to the peroneus longus and extensor digitorum communis, and below to the extensor proprius polHcis alone. The anterior tibial nerve lies upon it in its whole extent. 2647- Immediately after passmg through the interosseous liga- ment, and sometimes even in its passage, the anterior tibial artery furnishes a considerable branch, the Recurrent Artery of the Knee^ (Art. recurrens) which ascends obliquely inwards in the substance of the upper extremity of the tibialis anticus, gives it many rami- fications, traverses the tibial aponeurosis, and divides into several