48'2 ORGANS OF SENSATION. the digastric muscle, and is sometimes strengthened at its com- mencement by a filament from the pneumo-gastric nerve. It de- scends vertically along the anterior side of the internal jugular vein as far as the middle of the neck, where it bends backwards and upwards to anastomose with the internal descending branch of the cervical plexus, under the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle, and over the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein. This anastomosis forms a reversed arch, from the convexity of which proceed several filaments which constitute in this place a small plexus more or less complicated. From its commencement this branch furnishes no twig; but, im- mediately before communicating with the cervical plexus, it gives ofl' two anteriorly, which soon unite, to proceed under the omo- hyoideus muscle. There they separate again ; one of them loses itself upon the inner surface of that muscle ; the other traverses it, gains the sterno-hyoideus, and divides in its substance as far as its inferior attachment, sending some filaments to the sterno-thyroideus muscle. The small plexus which terminates this branch gives off several sets of twigs. The internal, to the number of two, glide under the omo-hyoideus muscle, and throw themselves into the sterno- thyroideus, where they divide into the ascending and descending filaments. The external, which are also two in number, descend inider the omo-hyoideus, and are lost in its scapular extremity. The inferior, which are more slender, and of which there are two or three, proceed along the common carotid artery, furnish some filaments to its walls, and then go to communicate with the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and frequently with the phrenic nerve. 1723. Lingual Branch. This is the true continuation of the trunk. It enters at first between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glos- sus muscles, increases considerably in volume by the separation of its fibres, gives off a pretty large twig to the thryo-hyoideus muscle, receives one from the superior cervical ganglion, and sends some filaments to the constrictor pharyngis superior, stylo-pharyngeus, genio-hyoideus, mylo-hyoideus and genio-glossus. In the two last muscles there is observed a union between one of the filaments of the hypoglossal nerve and the mylo-hyoid filaments of the inferior dentar nerve (1669). Several of these filaments ascend upon the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, form there a kind of plexus by their frequent anastomoses, and all communicate with filaments of the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (1668). Arrived at the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus muscle, this branch dives, along with the lingual artery, between the genio- glossus and lingualis muscles, and directs itself inwards, forwards, and upwards. It then terminates, at about an inch from the point of the tongue, by a great number of filaments which are not dis- tributed to the papillai of its mucous membrane, but lose them- selves in the fleshy fibres of the muscles of this region, where they communicate frequently with each other.