ORGANS OF SENSATION. palatine canal (354) : there, it introduces itself into a canal of its own, of which we have already spoken. The twig of the right side is prolonged a little more forwards than the left, to meet the orifice destined for its reception. But both, on arriving at the middle of the anterior palatine canal, issue from their particular canals, and terminate at the upper angles of the naso-palatine ganglion, with- out reaching so far as the mouth. The naso-palatine nerve dis- tinctly anastomoses with a filament from the superior and anterior dentar nerve, which extends along the wall of the maxillary sinus to penetrate into the nasal fossae. 1868. Of the Palatine Nerves (nervi palatini). They are three in number, one large and two small. 1869. The Great or Inferior Palatine Nerve, placed before the other two, enters immediately into the posterior palatine ca- nal (366), after giving off a nasal filament which passes into the fossoe of that name, between the middle and inferior turbi- nated bones, opposite the sphenoidal process of the palatine bone, and which is distributed to the free edge of the middle turbi- nated bone, to its concave surface, and to the convex surface of the inferior turbinated bone, extending to near its anterior extre- mity. The great palatine nerve then runs through its canal, where its filaments are frequently spread out, and only connected by a loose cellular tissue. A little before issuing from it, it sends a second ramification into the nasal fossae. This latter passes through a small aperture of the vertical portion of the palate bone, proceeds horizontally along the edge of the inferior turbinated bone, and loses itself on the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone. It is often contained in a small bony canal. At the same place the palatine nerve transmits, by one of the ac- cessory canals, a filament which goes to the velum palati to be dis- tributed there; the nerve itself then immediately issues from its canal, directs itself forwards under the arch of the palate, and se- parates into several twigs. The outer, which are larger and more numerous, follow the inner edge of the superior alveolar arch, and lose themselves in the gums; the inner subdivide on the middle of the vault of the palate, and especially furnish filaments to the mucous follicles of that region. Some of them anastomose with the inferior filaments of the naso-palatine gangUon. 1870. Middle palatine Nerve. Arising behind the preceding nerve, it descends along the posterior part of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, enters a canal of its own, and emerges behind the hook of the pterygoid process, dividing into two filaments, one of which goes to the corresponding tonsil and terminates by four or five ramifications in the velum palati, while the other, which separates into two or three filaments, is entirely destined for the latter organ. 1871. Small Palatine Nerve. Situated still farther back than the preceding, it descends between the pterygoideus extcrnus mus- cle and the superior maxillary bone, then between the latter and the