Sd^ ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. does exist, varies mucli in size, as well as in form. It is in ge- neral very thin, and narrow. It arises, by aponeuroses, from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and the anterior edge of the process of the os unciforme, whence it descends a little out- wards, becoming narrower, to be united to the outer part of th6 tendon of the preceding muscle, and to terminate along with it. Its connexions are absolutely the same. It bends the first phalanx of the little finger, and draws forwards the fifth matacarpal bone. OF THE ADDUCTOll OSSIS METACARPI MINIMI DIGITI. (Opponens Minimi Digiti.) 1233. It has nearly the same form and disposition as the opj- ponens pollicis (1219), but its size is less. Having the same origins as the preceding muscle, its fleshy fibres, so much the longer and more oblique the lower they are, descend inwards, and terminate along the inner edge of the fifth metacarpal bone, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres. Its anterior surface corresponds to the abductor and flexor brevis of the little finger, and an apo- neurotic expansion, sent off by the tendon of the extensor carpi ul- naris (1194). The posterior surface, is applied upon the last in- terosseus muscle, the fifth metacarpal bone, and the tendon of the flexor subUmis, which goes to the Httle finger. It carries the fifth metacarpal bone forwards and outwards, and thus augments the cavity of the palm of the hand. Middle Palmar Region. OF THE LUMBKICALES.* 1234. The Lumhricales are four smaU, slender, elongated, fusi- form fleshy bundles, situated in the palm of the hand, and distin- guished into first, second, third, and fourth, according to their re- lative position, counting from without inwards ; they diminish in size in the same order. They arise towards the upper part of the hand, the first from the fore and outer part of the tendon of the flexor profundus, which goes to the fore-finger; the three follow- ing from the separation of the other tendons of the same muscle, so as to be attached to two of them at once. From thence they descend, following different directions ; the middle two vertical- ly, the outer outwards, and the inner inwards ; and when they have arrived at the outer side of the articulation of the metacarpal bones, with the first phalanges of the fingers, they become very " Lmihrkus, an earth-worm.