IMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. S45 internal mammury and epigastric arteries, and inferiorly, the peri- toneum. 1267. The rectus muscle bends the thorax upon the pelvis, or the pelvis upon the tliorax. It compresses the abdomen from be- fore backwards, &c. 1268. To expose the rectus muscle, cut through the anterior wall of its sheath by the side of the linea alba, and reverse it from within outwards, dissecting in the direction of the fibres of the muscle. The tendinous intersections are intimately connected with the sheath; a little care is therefore necessary when separating these parts. OF THE PYKAMIBALIS. 1269- The Pyramidalis is a small elongated, rounded, triangu- lar bundle, which does not always exist, and is placed in the median line of the body, at the lower and fore part of the rectus. Sometimes there are two pyramidal muscles on each side; at other times this arrangement is met with only on one side. Fre- quently they are very short and indistinct; and sometimes of considerable dimensions; they also vary much in other respects. They arise from the symphysis of the pubes, and from a little of the neighbouring part of the bone, by short aponeurotic fibres, which ascend converging toward each other, being only separated by the linea alba, in which they terminate by a slender and elon- gated tendon. The inner fibres are vertical, and shorter than the outer, which are oblique. 1270. The pyramidalis is applied posteriorly upon the rectus, and covered anteriorly by the abdominal aponeurosis. 1271. It appears to assist the rectus in its action, by fixing its tendon. It stretches the linea alba and abdominal aponeurosis. This muscle is exposed at the same time as the rectus. OF THE DIAPHIIAGM.* 1272. The Diaphragm {Septum Transversum), is a single, very broad, and membraneous muscle, situated obliquely be- tween the thorax and abdomen, which it separates. Its figure 18 nearly circular, although it is a httle more extended in the transverse direction, than from before backwards. It is fleshy at Its circumference, apofieurotic in the middle, and forms a kind of elliptical arch, mobile and flexible, but not symmetrical, although placed in the median line of the body, which is a singular A<«^j«y^a, f,i,p(,„r,^ a pavtition ; S/a, inti-r; (p^arffu, vMxdo.