MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 319 ,. sort of concave channel, which receives the corresponding ten- vlons of the flexor profundus; but, towards the lower part of the ; tirst phalanges, they actually split in the middle to afford a passage •.to these latter, and divide into two portions, which separate at first, then turn and approach each other, so as to form anteriorly a se- i ond channel, which is filled by the tendon of one of the portions (t' the flexor profundus. These two portions unite towards the ar- ticulation of the first and second phalanges, and send off" to each (ither small fibrous bands which regularly cross each other. Last- ly, they separate again, contract and terminate on the sides of the anterior surface of the second phalanx, a little beneath its middle part. At the moment of their first separation, these portions are at- tached to the anterior surface of the metacarpal phalanges by two pretty long and very slender ligamentous bridles. Sometimes there lis only one. 1165. Synovial Bursa of the carpus. It is spread out, on the I one hand, upon the tendons of the two common flexors of the (fingers, and of the flexor longus pollicis, and upon the median t nerve, which it embraces and seems to unite into a common bundle ; ;and, on the other hand, upon the anterior surface of the carpal I bones and the posterior surface of the annular ligament, above and I below which it forms a sort of cul-de-sac. It sends a considerable I number of replications between these different parts, and contains ' very little synovia. 1166. Fibrous sheaths of the Fingers. The sheaths which we I have just mentioned, form with the anterior surface of the pha- 1 langes, a true canal, half bony and half fibrous, which lodges the I tendons of each of the portions of the two flexor muscles. They 1 commence beneath the inferior metacarpal ligament' (699), from which several fibres are sent off"to join them, and terminate at the ' extreme phalanx by interlacing with the expansion of the tendon I of the flexor profundus, being in their whole extent attached along the edges of the phalanges. The anterior surface is covered by the skin, and collateral vessels of the fingers; the posterior is i smooth, and lined by a synovial membrane. The tissue of these sheaths is very compact; they are formed of interlaced trans- verse fibres, of a pearly colour, and very thick at the middle of the first and second phalanges, but opposite their articulation, dis- ■ appear entirely, so as to leave the synovial membrane exposed. • The latter proceeds from the wall of the sheaths over the tendons, forming above and below very distinct culs-de-sac, and having en- veloped these tendons, is reflected posteriorly to tlie anterior sur- face of the phalanges by a triangular repUcation, formed of two la- inina! placed back to back. The separation which exists between - two terminal slips of the tendons of the flexor perforatus, is fill- ed by prolongations of the synovial membrane, ik M The awferior OT<r/flrtf of the flexor perforatus is covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi padialis, and pulniuris longus, the