PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 150 the semimembranosus muscle. The outer presents at its back part a small rounded surface, somewliat convex, nearly circular, directed downwards, and covered with cartilage to be articulated to the up- per extremity of the fibula. 509- The Lower or Tarsal Ewtremity lias a nearly quadrilateral form, and presents anteriorly a broad convex surface, which gives at- tachment to ligaments, and is covered by the tendons of the muscles of the fore part of the leg. Posteriorly, there is observed another sur- face, nearly plain, and traversed from above downwards and from within outwards by a superficial groove, in which slides the tendon of the flexor longus poUicis pedis ; at its lower part it also receives insertions of ligaments. To the outside is seen a concave triangu- lar surface, rough above where a ligament is attached to it, broad, smooth, and polished below, to be connected with a similar surface of the lower extremity of the fibula; it is at the summit of this surface that the outer edge of the body of the tibia terminates. Inteifnally there is seen a thick triangular process, directed down- wards, and flattened from within outwards ; this is the Malleolus Interntis or inner ankle. It is not placed in the same plane with the internal tuberosity of the tibia, but is a little anterior to it, which appears to depend upon the twisting of the body of the bone. This process is convex and subcutaneous internally ; externally it presents a small triangular surface, which vinites nearly at a right angle with the lower articular surface of this extremity of the tibia, and is connected with the astragalus. Anteriorly and posteriorly, it is terminated by two thick edges, of which the anterior is convex, and gives attachment to ligaments, the posterior marked with one, or sometimes two superficial grooves, directed downwards and in- wards, in which slide the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum. The summit of the malleolus intcrnus is broad- er, and descends less behind than before ; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Inferiorly, the tarsal ex- tremity of the tibia is terminated by a concave quadrilateral sur- face, broader externally than inwards, separated into two parts by a very superficial prominence which transverses it from before back- wards. This surface, which is limited internally by the external surface of the malleolus internus, and externally by the notch which receives the lower extremity of the fibula, is articulated to the upper svirface of the astragalus. 510. Structure. The tibia presents the structure common to all the long bones, its body being formed of compact tissue, and its extremities of cellular tissue covered with a layer of compact tissue. Its medullary canal is the most distinct of any in the body. 511. Articulations and Development. This bone is developed \ by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each extremity. The spine which terminates its crest above, is some- times formed by a small lenticular epiphysis which does not long f remain distinct. The malleolus internus is also sometimes deve-