PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 118 circumference is interrupted posteriorly by the projection of the promontory. Its capjicity is measured by four diameters, whose dimensions are greater in the female than in the male, and which are as follows : 1st, the antero-postcrior or sacro-pubic, extending from the upper edge of the sacrum to the inner surface of the symphysis pubis, which is the smallest; 2dly, the transverse or iliac, from one side of the pelvis to the other, intersecting the pre- ceding at right angles, and which is the largest; 3dly, two ob- liqicc, measured from the cotyloid wall of one side to the union of the sacrum with the os innominatum on the other, and which are intermediate in size. 405. Above the upper strait, is seen the Great Pelvis, a sort of cavity which leads into the pelvis properly so called, or that ex- pansion which constitutes the haunches, in which are observed, posteriorly, the Sacro-vertebral Angle ; on the sides, the iliac fossiie ; and, anteriorly, a large notch, filled up by the broad muscles of the abdomen. 406. Beneath this strait, is the Small Pelvis or Pelvic Excava- tion, (cavum), remarkable for its capacity, which is somewhat greater than that of the strait itself; for the disposition of its walls, which all form smooth planes, inclined toward the lower aperture of the pelvis; and for its length, which is greater ^han that of the upper pelvis, although its breadth is much smaller. It seems to constitute a sort of curved canal, chlated in the middle, and contracted at its upper and lower extremities. Posteriorly, where it is concave from above downwards and directed downwards, it presents the concave surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx ; ante- riorly, where it is transversely concave and directed upwards, the posterior parts of the junction of the pubes, two surfaces which cor- respond to the bladder, and the two obtui-ator holes ; and, on the sides, the great sciatic notches and a portion of the articulation of the sacrum and os innominatum. UPPER CIRCUMFERENCE, OR BASE OF THE PELVIS. 407- It is inchned upwards and forwards, is very uneven, and is wider in the female than the male. It presents laterally the two iliac crests ; posteriorly, the sacro-vertebral angle, on the sides of which are two depressions filled by the muscles of the loins, and in which is seen the upper part of the sacro-iliac articulation; ante- riorly, the anterior spinous processes of the ilium, the channel, which lodges the united mass of the iliacus and psoas muscles, the ilio-pectineal eminence, the spine of the pubes, the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and lastly, the great notch of which we have already spoken, and whicli is formed by the anterior edges of the ossa ilei.