258 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. backwards, to terminate in a radiating manner, under the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, between the rectus minor and obliquus superior. 867. Its posterior surface is covered by the complexns and ob- liquus superior. The anterior corresponds to the occipital bone, the posterior arch of the atlas, the posterior atlanto-axoidal liga- ment, the rectus minor muscle, and the vertebral artery. 8G8. It extends the head directly, when it acts in conjunction ■with its fellow, obliquely when by itself, in which case it produces a motion of rotation by which the face is turned to the same side. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOU. 860. It is situated before the rectus posticus major, and has nearly the same form, but is shorter. It is attached to the tuber- cle of the posterior arch of the atlas by a short tendon with radiat- ing fibres, from whence it proceeds nearly in a vertical direction, becoming broader toward the occipital bone, where it is inserted into the impressions observed near its crest, and below its lower curved line, not far from the occipital hole. 870. Its posterior surface, which is inclined downwards, is co- vered by the complexus, from which it is however separated by much fiit, and by the preceding muscle. The anterior surface covers the occipital bone, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and the vertebral artery. 871- It inclines the head backward upon the atlas. OP THE OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR. 872. Elongated, rounded and fusiform, it is attached by indis- tinct aponeurotic fibres to the tubercle of the spinous process of the axis near the rectus major; it then proceeds backwards, out- wards and upwards, and is inserted to the lower and back part of the summit of the transverse process of the atlas, by means of aponeurotic fibres, which are also indistinct. Its posterior surface is covered by the complexus and trachelo-mastoideus. The atite* rior is applied upon the lamina of the second vertebra, the poste- rior axoido-atlantal ligament, and the vertebral artery. 873. It impresses a rotatory motion upon the first vertebra, vrhich turns the face toward its own side. OF THE OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR. 874. It is situated on the sides and behind the articulation of the head, and is an elongated and flat muscle, narrower below than above. It arises by a sort of small tendon from the summit of the