OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE STOMACH. 605 irwhich separate the longitudinal folds. They are sometimes called r.ccmphcujeal glands. They are surrounded by a circle of tubercles ,>or villositics. 214-5. The arteries of the oesophagus are in general of inconsi- ilderable size. They come, in the neck, from the inferior thyroid iiarteries; in the thorax, from the bronchial and directly from the laorta; in the abdomen, from the inferior diaphragmatic arteries and ffrom the coronary artery of the stomach. Its veins terminate in [the inferior thyroid veins, the superior vena cava, the internal imammary veins, the vena azygos, the bronchial and phrenic weins, and the coronary vein of the stomach. The lymphatic ves- ssels go to the gangha which surround it. Its nerves are furnished Iby the pharyngeal and pulmonary plexuses (I7IO), the cardiac inerves (1893), the thoracic nervous ganglia (1903), and especially tthe pneumo-gastric nerves and their recurrent branches (I7O8). :AU these nerves form around it a large plexus -which envelopes it tthe whole way to the stomach. . OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES, OR ORGANS BY WHICH THE CHYME AND CHYLE ARE ELABORATED. Of the Stomach. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 2146. The Stomach, (Ventriculus)* the principal organ of I digestion, is a conical, elongated musculo-membraneous reservoir, I curved from before backwards and from below upwards in the I direction of its length, slightly depressed on two opposite sides, continuous on the one hand with the oesophagus, on the other with the duodenum, situated beneath the diaphragm, between the liver and spleen, behind the left false ribs, occupying, at the upper part of the abdomen, the epigastrium and a portion of the left hypo- chondrium, and destined to convert the alimentary substances into chyme before transmitting them to the intestines. 2147. The volume of this viscus is liable to change much in the different circumstances of life, so that very freqviently it is no longer concealed by the false ribs, but descends beneath them, behind the parietes of the abdomen. This happens in particular when it is much distended with food. In general, also, the stomach is larger in individuals who eat much than in other persons. Its greatest diameter is transverse. The small diameter, which is vertical, gradually diminishes in proceeding from the oesophagus towards the duodenum. Its two orifices are considerably contracted, and arc directed upwards and backwards. • Tarof of the Greeks.