280 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and fore part of the neck. It arises below, by aponeurotic fibres, longer before than behind, from the upper edge of the scapula, behind the coracoid notch (428), and often from the ligament which converts the latter into a hole. It ascends forwards and inwards, becoming narrower, passes behind the clavicle, sometimes attach- ing itself to its posterior edge, crosses the direction of the sterno- mastoideus, and, behind, it is converted into a very thin and nar- row tendon, of variable length, always more distinct before than behind. It then becomes fleshy again, increases its breadth, and ascends nearly parallel to the sterno-hyoideus, to terminate by very j, short aponeuroses on the sides of the lower edge of the body of the | hyoid bone. 991. Its outer surface is covered by the trapezius, platysma myoides, stcrno-mastoideus, and the clavicle. The inner cor- responds to the two scaleni, the anterior branches of the infe- rior cervical nerves, the trunk of the carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the superior thyroid vessels, and the sterno-hyoideus | and stcrno-thyroideus muscles. 992. This muscle lowers the hyoid bone, carrying it a little back- wards and to a side. When it acts along with its fellow, it lowers i the bone directly and carries it backwards. i 993. The inferior extremity of this muscle cannot be exposed, | until the clavicle has been removed. OF THE STERNO-HYOIDEUS. 994. The Sterno-hyoideus, which is placed at the fore part of the neck, and represents a long narrow band, arises behind the clavicular extremity of the sternum, from the posterior sterno- clavicular ligament, and also sometimes from the cartilage of the first rib. It ascends obliquely inwards, contracting a httle, and approaching that of the opposite side, as far as the middle of the larynx. It then directs itself a httle outwards, and terminates at the lower edge of the body of the hyoid bone, internally of the preceding muscle. It commonly presents, at a variable height, an aponeurotic intersection more visible before than behind, somewhat tortuovis, and often only existing on the inside. Its various mser- tions are effected by means of small aponeuroses. 995. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the clavicle, the sterno-mastoideus, platysma-myoides, and omo-hyoi- deus muscles, and by the skin. The posterior is applied upon the sterno-thyroideus, crico-thyroideus and thyro-hyoideus mus- cles, the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyroid body, and the su- perior thyroid vessels. A small synovial bursa exists between it and the crico-thyroid membrane. ' 996. It depresses the hyoid bone, and consequently the larynx, . and thus furnishes a fixed point to the depressor muscles of the jaw.