OF THE PATIlJiTIC NERVES. 455 •i-its turn, covered by these two nerves, wlucli cross it obliquely, and 1 cieconie internal with respect to it. 16'35. A httle before passing through the sphenoidal fissure, it , luvides into two branches, a superior and an inferior, which tra- I cerse the dura mater, and penetrate into the orbit by the broadest ii»art of that fissure, passing between the two portions of the poste- dor extremity of the rectus externus oculi, along with the nerve of ihe sixth pair and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, to Irhich they are united by cellular tissue. 1636. Superior Branch. It directs itself forwards and a little inwards, passes above the optic nerve and the nasal branch, imme- iliately proceeds to the inferior surface of the rectus superior oculi, iind furnishes it with a great number of divergent filaments. Ano- hJier filament, a little smaller, follows the inner edge of this muscle, rr even traverses it to be spread out in the levator palpebras supe- idoris. This branch also receives one or two small twigs of the na- lal nerve. 1637. Inferior Branch. Much larger than the preceding, it ddvances between the lower and outer part of the optic nerve and hhe rectus inferior oculi, and, after a passage of a few lines, di- i/ides into three twigs : 1st, an i««er, the largest, which proceeds ibbliquely to the origin of the rectus internus oculi, in the substance bf which it is expanded ; 2dly, a middle twig, much shorter and ismaller, which proceeds directly forwards, and ramifies in the rec- uus inferior ; 3dly, an outer, much longer and more slender than Ithe other two, which, at its origin, gives off a short and flat filament, ascending on the outside of the optic nerve, and going to be united 4o the posterior part of the ophthalmic ganghon, and then pro- ■ffieeds between the rectus inferior and rectus externus, without ' Furnishing them with any filament, passes under the ball of the eye, and at length penetrates nearly at a right angle into the obli- i ^uus inferior, near its tendon. I ; 1638. This nerve, which has nothing peculiar in its structure, ngives motion to all the muscles of the eye, excepting the rectus ex- .ternus and obliquus superior. It communicates with the ophthal- ■■Jnic ganglion. OF THE NERVES OF THE FOURTH PAIR. {Nervi Pathetici seu Trochleares). 1639. These nerves are the most slender of all those furnished ny the bram. Their origin is perceived, sometimes higher, some- times lower, behind the posterior pair of the tubercula quadrige- mma {testes), on the lateral parts of the valvula Vieussenii (1513). He number of their roots varies from one to four, and is not al- ways the same on both sides. Sometimes the roots of one of the nerves are united to those of the opposite nerve by a transverse