ORGANS OF SENSATION. I 416 tubercle. It does not lie loose in the vertebral canal, nor is it afJ- plied against its bony surfaces ; but is constantly sustained in a fixed manner in the middle of that cavity, a little nearer the anterior wall however than the posterior. In the spinal marrow, there are distinguished a middle part or body, and two ewtremir' ties. . ■ •.( 1516. Upper Extremity, or Medulla oblongata. It is contain- ed within the cranium, and forms a sort of bulging which extends from the cerebral protuberance to the great occipital hole; it con^ tracts in proportion as it descends, and is slightly compressed from before backwards. Its anterior surface, which is broad and conr- vex, and lies upon the occipital bone, is remarkable for four emi- nences symmetrically placed alongside of each other. Two of these eminences {corpora, pyraynidalia) are internal, and are separ- ated by a median groove, much deeper above than below, filled by the pia mater, and continuing over the whole anterior surface of the spinal marrow to its inferior extremity : they seem to arise from the inferior extremity of the cerebral protuberance, where they are broader, and more prominent, and after a course of eight or ten lines, disappear insensibly in the tissue of the spinal marrow ; opposite the atlas no traces of them are observable. The two lateral eminences (Corpora OlivariaJ, are separated from the pre- ceding by a slight depression ; they are very firm, of an oblong form, prominent in their middle, rounded at their extremities, and are white on the outside. The posterior surface of the medulla oblongata contributes to form the fourth ventricle, and is directly continuous with the cere- bral protuberance, there being no line of separation interposed. It is hollowed in the median line by a part of the calamus scrip- torius, which is closed below by a fold of the arachnoid membrane, and terminates opposite the occipital hole. On each side, therft are observed two whitish oblong eminences, (Corpora restiformia) which contribute to the formation of the cerebellum. 1517- Body of the Spinal Marrow,—We have already made known the enlargements and contractions which it presents during its course (1515). Its anterior surface corresponds to the bodies of the vertebra ; it presents a great number of small transverse folds or grooves, more or less near to each other, particularly ap- parent from the last cervical vertebra to the ninth dorsal: a very deep and distinct fissure runs along its whole extent, dividing it into two equal lateral portions. Its posterior surface also presents transverse folds ; but they are less visible than on the anterior : it also is divided in its whole length by a median groove which com- mences between the two corpora restiformia; it is closer on its edges, narrower and less deep than the anterior, especially in the adult. These two median grooves, according to Chaussier s ob- servation, from whom we borrow several important details, receive a fold of the proper membrane of the spinal marrow, and serve for the transmission of a great number of vascular twigs, which pene- 6