ORGANS OF CIRCULATION^ 66S apparent circular net-work, which is joined by Bome ramifications of the other branches of the ophthalmic artery. 2368. Arrived at the posterior part of the ball of the eye, these arteries separately penetrate the sclerotica near the entrance of the optic nerve. Some of them remain in that membrane, and there anastomose with the twigs which it receives from the muscular arteries ; others supply it alone with very slender ramifications; but the greater number pass between it and the choroid membrane, and divide into a very great quantity of twigs which come off'at a very acute angle, and afterwards direct themselves forward, run- ning nearly parallel to each other. All these twigs are limited in a great measure to the external surface of the choroid membrane, and form by their subdivisons and numerous anastomoses, a very delicate net-work, of which the areolae are quadrangular, and much looser before than behind. Some of these twigs communicate with those of the anterior ciliary arteries; others pass through the cihary body and throw themselves into the great arterial circle of the iris; but almost all go to lose themselves in the ciliary pro- cesses, and in so great number, that twenty or thirty are counted for each of these small bodies. They proceed a short way in a tortuous manner in their substance, then unite into twigs progres- sively larger, which, behind the iris, bend toward each other, and anastomose in the manner of an arch. 2369. The Long Ciliary Arteries are a little larger than the preceding, and generally two in number, an external and an internal. They pass through the sclerotica at a greater distance from the optic nerve than the posterior ciliary arteries, and, after giving some small twigs to that membrane, proceed horizontally forwards between it and the choroid membrane, to which they dis- tribute very few ramifications. They thus arrive at the ciliary body, where they divide, each into two twigs which separate at a very obtuse angle, unite with some small twigs of the anterior ciliary arteries, anastomose together, and form a very apparent vascular circle upon the large circumference of the iris. 2370. From the whole inner side of the circumference of this circle, arise a great number of smaller twigs, each of which pre- sently bifurcates, and anastomoses with the neighbouring twigs so as to form a second vascular circle internally of the preceding. From this circle, which is also joined by some ramifications of the anterior ciliary arteries, proceed other twigs, which are extremely numerous, but of the greatest tenuity : these proceed in a serpen- tine manner, under the form of radii, towards the small circum- ference of the iris, where they anastomose with each other, so as to form a third circle which embraces the pupil. Some of these twigs do not anastomose however, and go directly to the pupil. In the foetus, there are seen setting out for the membrana pjipil- laris (1968), about thirty flexuous and radiating ramifications, which leave the concavity of the great arterial circle of the iris