STERNUM. 29 the bones of the sternum are not yet united. They are covered with articular cartilages, and separated from one another by notches, which are larger above than below, and which Hmit the intercostal spaces before. A portion of the seventh articular cavity commonly occurs in the ensiform appendage ; and this cavity is so close upon the sixth as to be nearly confounded with it. 81. Structure, Artimlations, and Development. The ster- num, which is covered with a thin layer of compact tissue, is spongy and cellular internally, and is suppUed with a great many blood-vessels. It is articulated to the clavicles and to the cartilages of the true ribs. It is developed by eight or nine centres of ossification, and sometimes more, and these constitute, therefore, the original number of germs or bones which compose the chain of bones called sternum in all vertebrate animals. In about one subject out of fifty, there is an aperture between the two primitive points of the fourth and the fifth of these sternal bones, or between these two bones themselves;* the sternum is pro- portionally longer and narrower in the female than in the male. OF THE EIBS. 82. The Rihs (Costce) are irregular, very elastic bones, bent in various chrections, raised at one of their extremities, flattenecL and rather thin before, rounded and thick behind. AU are articulated with the dorsal vertebrae, but some only with the sternum, from which circumstance they have been divided into two classes, viz. true or vertehro-sternal ribs, audi false or asternal. There are seven of the former and five of the latter on each side.-]: These are com- monly designated by their numerical name, counting from above downwards.^ 83. The length of the ribs gradually increases from the first to the eighth, and then diminishes to the twelfth. Their breadth diminishes insensibly from the first to the twelfth. * The first is nearly horizontal. The others are more inclined on the vertebral column the lower they are. In general, the posterior part of the ribs is curved according to a line belonging to a smaller diameter than the fore part. The first rib is also much nearer the axis of the chest than the others, which retire more and more from it as they descend. It re- presents a rather small and nearly regular semicircle. Those which * I have found tilis deficiency in the osseous part of the sternum to be owing to an original defect in the cartilage. t ^'o'l rara; autem sunt octo costae. ossibus sterni junctse et quatuor tantum spuria;, feoemm. De Corp. Hum. I-'ab. torn. i. p. 252. X It not unfrequcntly liappens that the number of ribs is found to vary. There are never, however, more tlian tliirtccn on each side, or less tlian eleven. Some- Omes this disposition exists on one side only. When tiie number of ribs is thus in. »«?aspd or diminished, the iaiiie phenomenon is observed witli renpeet to the dorsal vcrltbrae.