121 OF THE PELVIS IN GENERAL. 416. Dimensions of the Little Pelvis or Pelvic Excavation. 1. Height of the posterior wall, 4.836 inches. 2. Height of the anterior wall, 1.560 inches. 3. Height of the lateral walls, 3-705 inches. 4. Thickness of the symphysis pubis, .546 inch. 5. Depth of the cavity of the sacrum, -702 inch. 6. Length of the coccyx, .97^ inch. 7. Length of the concavity of the sacrum, beneath the arch of the pubes, 4.875 inches.* 417. We have given the dimensions of the pelvis m an article by itself, that they inay thus be more easily compared, for the pur- pose of deducing useful corollaries from them. The measurements in question we have indicated only in the fe- male, because in the male, although the pelvis presents nearly the same general conformation, it no longer presents the same dimen- sions, and as it is of no practical utiUtyf to become intimately ac- quainted with the measurements of the male pelvis, we shall not much insist on the differences that exist between it and the female. It is in fact sufficient for us to know, that the pelvis of the female has a greater capacity than that of the male ; that its surfaces are smoother, its contours less rugged, the attachments of the muscles less marked. In her, the haunches are more prominent and more rounded, because the upper part of the ossa innominata is thrown more outward; the iliac crest and spinous processes are thinner, and less rough; the sacro-vertebral angle projects less ; the contour of the abdominal strait is wider and more rounded; the sacrum is broader, as well as the pubic arch, of which the rami are less thick, and directed outwards ; the sciatic tuberosities, which are smaller, have also this direction; the junction of the pubes is not so high ; and the cotyloid cavities are more remote from the centre of the body, which produces a difference in the mode of running. But, although the pelvis of the female is broader thanTthat of the male, it is not nearly so high. In the latter, the bones are thicker, the muscular impressions more distinct, the articular sur- faces broader. Every thing, as Verheyen has remarked, seems to impress the idea of strength; while, in the female pelvis, every thing seems to indicate its adaptation to childbirth. 418. The stature has no decided influence upon the dimensions of the pelvis, and the differences existing in individuals are inde- " Chaussier. Tab. Synopl. dei Accouchem. folio, Paris, that V:°'^'"['^'^'"''"g tl'is observation, it may still be useful to remind the surgeon, foiiriri '"''^'^ '""y '"^ deformed ; that the tuberosities of the ischium will bo miirr/i' '^'"^^ f<-'''''i'" male subjects than in others ; that the ra- rii" ,u P"*"^® °f "^he ischium may be found quite straight, or almost per))eii. ly outw°''l*'''^T(«^"P""y left), whilst on the otiu^r side, it will arch widc- the male 1 • sufficiently curious also to observe, that this mal-conformation of of the other boner"" ''"'^^^^ present not the smallest deformity in any