MEMBRANE OF THE LARYNX. 403 It contains in its substance a number of mucous follicles, whose narrow orifices are pretty easily perceived, especially on the infe- rior surfiice of the epiglottis, and in the ventricles of the larynx; but papilL-e are rarely observed, as in most of the other mucous membranes. The fluid which it secretes is less viscid and tena- cious than that of the pituitary membrane ; but it has more con- sistence than that which is furnished by the buccal membrane. OF THE PERIGLOTTIS, OR GLAND OF THE EPIGLOTTIS. 1489- This is a mass of small glandular grains, sometimes ag- glomerated, sometimes isolated, deeply immersed in a great quan- tity of very dense adipose cellular tissue, and occupying, at the lower part of the anterior surface of the epiglottis, a triangular space, limited anteriorly by the thyroid cartilage and thyro-hyoid membrane. In some subjects, this gland cannot be distinguished amid the adipose tissue which contains it; but in general, the foUicles of which it is composed, are seen forming small series which are prolonged as far as the edge of the epiglottis, and into the mu- cous folds which surround it, and occupying all the apertures which that fibro-cartilage presents towards its inferior extremity, to pour the product of their secretion over its laryngeal surface. OF THE ARYTENOID GLANDS. 1490. The form of these glands is commonly compared to the letter L ; they are lodged in the folds which the mucous membrane presents in passing from the epiglottis* to the arytenoid cartilages, and from these to the thyroid cartilage. They are formed by an agglomeration of small grains pretty much resembling the tissue of the lachrymal gland, their colour varies from gray to reddish white, and their tissue is compact and firm. Their vertical branch, which is rounded and considerably distant from the corresponding aryte- noid cartilage, is free in the aryteno-epiglottic fold. The horizon- tal branch runs along the fold which limits the ventricle of the larynx above, and is a little less prominent than the other. The angle which these two branches form by their union is connected with the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The excretory orifices of the arytenoid glands are only seen with «iuch difficulty. ^ Of the Lturynx, considered in General. 1491. This organ, considered as a whole, has in some measure le form of a reversed cone, the base of which is directed upwards