483 OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. OF THE SPINAL NERVES IN PARTICULAR. 1724. These nerves, of which there are thirty-one pairs, eight for the cervical region, twelve for the dorsal, five for the lumbar, and six for the sacral, all agree in possessing the following charac- ters : 1st, they rise from the sides of the spinal marrow by means of two roots, an anterior and smaller, and a posterior or larger, be- tween which the ligamentum dentatum passes; 2dly, each of these roots is formed by a greater or less number of distinct filaments, separated from each other at their commencement; 3dly, before issuing from the vertebral canal, they traverse a certain space in its interior; 4thly, in their passage through the intervertebral holes, they unite ; 5thly, but previous to this, the posterior root alone forms a particular enlargement or ganglion of a grayish co- lour and oval form, hard, and of a texture difficult to be determin- ed, which is lodged in a cavity furnished by the bony surfaces. OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. (Nervi Cervicales). 1725. The first of these nerves passes between the occipital bone and atlas; the last between the seventh cervical vertebra and the first dorsal. They are distinguished by their numerical iiames, counting from above downwards. Their anterior roots-commonly arise from the spinal marrow by two bundles formed of seven or eight filaments, isolated at their very commencement, but uniting almost immediately, and proceeding from above downwards gradu- ally increasing in size. The posterior roots, which are much larg- er, arise by a variable number of fibres in a pretty distinct groove of the spinal marrow (1518). Each of these bundles is composed of several isolated filaments, less distinct than those of the anterior roots, which converge towards each other, so as to give to the root a pyramidal form. It is also pretty frequently remarked, that be- tween two of these roots there exists a middle filament, which bi- furcates in such a manner as to belong equally to both. The first pairs of cervical nerves proceed nearly in a transverse direction within the vertebral canal; the rest descend so much the more obliquely towards the hole by which they are to emerge the lower they are situated, so that between the origin and exit of the last there is an interval of the height of a vertebra. In the intervertebral holes, the two roots, which are very close to each other, are separated by a thin partition which seems to di- vide into two the fibrous canal of the dura mater (1565) and only unite beyond the ganglion formed by the posterior. They then give rise to the trunk of the nerve itself, which, after a very short course, separates into two branches, a posterior and an anterior.