ARTICULATION OR SYMPHYSIS OF THE TUEIiS. 197 convex and uneven oval surfaces, which the pubic portions of the ossa innominata present, at the anterior and superior part of their lower edge (396). There is between them a fibro-cartilaginous plate, thicker anteriorly than behind and in its middle ; it is white, very dense, elastic, and formed of two distinct portions, one of wliich belongs to the left os pubis, and the other to the right. But there are detached from each of its portions transverse fibres, stronger, closer, and more numerous in the male than in the female, which form concentric laminje intersecting each other, the more sviper- ficial of which pass round the articulation, while the internal on- ly describe a semi-circle at its upper or lower part. In many sub- jects, and chiefly in women, it is observed that these fibrous laminae are wanting at the posterior part of the symphysis. They are so much the broader and thicker, the nearer they are to the lower and upper part of the symphysis ; their dimensions decrease in propor- tion as they approach the centre, and they become less apparent. Toward the middle of these, there are also commonly observed two small smooth polished oblong surfaces, covered with cartilage, moistened by a viscid fluid of a whitish or yellowish colour, and which appear lined by a very delicate synovial membrane. They generally occupy only a third of the length of the posterior half of the thickness of the symphysis. This disposition is much less ap- parent in the male than in the female, and it is still more distinct immediately after parturition. We observe, however, that in ge- neral the quantity of fibres, and the extent of the cartilaginous sur- faces, are in inverse ratio, and that the relation between them is very variable; for sometimes the fibres predominate, and some- times the smooth surfaces occupy almost the whole breadth of the articular surfaces of the pubes. The fibro-cartilaginous substance which unites the bones of the pubes, is much thicker anteriorly than posteriorly, where it forms a sort of prominence, very distinct in the female, and which occupies only the middle of the symphysis: it disappears above and below. This articulation is strengthened by two ligaments. 635. Anterior Pubic Ligament. This ligament is an irregular fibrous expansion, partly intermingled with the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, partly with the periosteum of the bones of the pubes. It appears to be formed of several superimposed layers, which all pass before the articulation. The most superficial of these layers, proceeds from the upper part of the symphysis, ex- panding and separating into two fasciculi, to the fore part of the rami of the pubic arch. The deep fibres are transverse, and unite m their passage with the laminfe of the fibro-cartilage. 636. S'uh-Pulric or Triangular Ligament, {Ligamcntum arcu- atum). This is much stronger than the preceding; it is a thick and triangular bundle which occupies the upper part of the arch of the pubes, to the upper and inner part of the rami of wliich it IS attached on either side. Its fibres, which are of a yellowish co- Jour, very close, transverse, and a little curved so as to present