185 ARTICULATIONS OP THE TRUNK. adhere above and below to the corresponding surfaces of tlie verte- bra? ; in subjects whicli have not exceeded twenty years, they are united to the epiphyses of these bones, with which they are easily .1 removed. Their circumference corresponds at the fore part to ithe anterior vertebral ligament, and at the back part to the poste- ; rior, contracting strong adhesions with their fibres ; it forms part Dof the intervertebral foramina, and in the back, contributes more- over to the formation of the small articular cavities which receive the head of the ribs. The intervertebral fibro-cartilages are formed in their circumfer- . ence by very close fibres, and laminje of the nature of ligaments ; the ,1 fibres never direct themselves perpendicularly from one vertebra to J another ; but the outermost ascend from left to right, and cover a a layer which has an opposite direction, and which is itself applied 1 against other layers having a different direction. The lamina, V which are concentric, are numerous anteriorly and laterally, but in 1 less number at the back part; they intersect each other, diminish i in thickness, and leave between them wider intervals, in proportion .i as they approach the centre of each fibro-cartilage. Their vacuities . are filled with a soft, pulpy, homogeneous viscid substance, of a : greyish colour; and at the centre itself there is only a very soft, - spongy, elastic, areolar tissue, plentifully supplied with the substance . in question : this disposition is much more apparent in the lumbar I region than in any other part of the vertebral column. In chil- i dren, this substance is whitish, transparent, and much less abun- ( dant than in adults, in whom it has more consistence and is of a ; yellowish colour. In old people, it diminishes still more in quanti- I ty, and the fibro-cartilages lose much of their thickness. These bodies when soaked in water, swell and increase very much i in their vertical extent, frequently acquiring a whole inch of thick- ness ; but it is especially towards the centre that the inci-ease is effected, and if one of them is cut horizontally between two verte- brae, each portion rises in the form of a cone having its base to- ward the external laminae of the fibro-cartilage, which acquire a red colour on remaining sometime in water. By desiccation, on the contrary, these organs are rendered much thinner, especially in the middle part, which is then reduced to a line of thickness. In the recent state the elasticity of these fibro-cartilages is ex- tremely remarkable, and restores to its direction the vertebral co- lumn after it has been variously bent in a dead body. If a verti- cal section is made of several vertebra;, the tissue of this body ex- pands and surpasses the level of the osseous surfaces. Their tena- city or power of cohesion is also very great, and even exceeds that ot the bones with which they are connected. ARTICULATIONS OF THIS ARTICULAR PROCESSES. •599. In describing the vcrtcbni;, we pointed out the form and