MUSCLES OF THE INFEllIOIl EXTREMITIES. 371 <is confounded by its lower edge with the tendon of the gemellus tsuperior, and inserted, above the latter muscle, into the digital icavity of the great troclianter (495). Sometimes the pyriforniis is ;]split longitudinally, in which case a branch of the sciatic nerve >passes between its two portions. 1371. In the pelvis, its anterior surface is covered by the rcc- t^tum, the sciatic plexus, and hypo-gastric vessels. After emerg- iiing from that cavity, it is applied upon the os innominatum, the c capsule of the hip-joint, and the glutJEUs minimus. Its 'posterior f surface is covered by the sacrum and the giutaeus maximus. Its \ I tipper edge corresponds internally to the glutoeal artery, and ex- t ternally to the giutaeus medius and glutagus minimus. The lower (edge corresponds, internally, to the small sacro-sciatic ligament, sand externally, to the gemellus superior, from which it is at first s separated by the sciatic nerve. 1372. This muscle rotates the thigh outwards. It may also 1 make the pelvis turn upon the thigh. OF THE GEMELLUS SUPERIOR. 1373. Elongated, flattened, broader and thicker at its middle part than its extremities, it arises from the outer lip of the sciatic spine, then proceeds transversely outwards, is confounded with the tendon of the obturator internus, and inserted at the upper part of the inner surface of the great trochanter. Its posterior surface is covered by the sciatic nerve and glutasus maximus; the anterior covers the os innominatum, and the capsule of the hip joint. It rotates the thigh outwards, and draws it from the other. OF THE GEMELLUS INFERIOR. 1374. It has the same form, connexions, and uses as the pre- ceding muscle ; but is attached on the one hand to the upper and back part of the tuber ischii, and, on the other, in the digital eavity of the great trochanter, above the obturator extemus (1380), The two tendons of the gemeUi unite behind that of the obturator- internus, so as to present a kind of groove for it. OF THE aUADRATUS FEMORIS. 1375. This muscle is situated transversely at the posterior and upper part of the thigh. It is thin, flat, and quadrilateral, and arises, by pretty long aponeurotic fibres, from the outer side of the sciatic tuberosity before the semi-membranosus. It then proceeds horizontally, between the gemellus inferior and adductor magnus, to the lower part of the posterior edge of the great trochanter,