PASSIVE OllGANS OF LOCOMOTION. T28 posterior surface of the os cuboides, whicli are kept in connexion by two ligaments, and lined by a synovial membrane. 755. iSnperior Ligament between the Calcaneum and osCuboidea {Ligamentnm calcaneo-cubaidemn superius). This ligament is broad, thin, divided into fasciculi by the intervention of much adi- pose substance, and formed of several superimposed planes. Its fibres, which are rather short, originate from the upper and fore part of the calcaneum, and are inserted into the corresponding part of the OS cuboides. They lie upon the synovial membrane, and are covered by the tendon of the peroneus tertius. 756. Inferior and Superficial Ligament between the Calcaneum and OS Cuboides {Ligamentum Longum Plantce). This is the long- est and strongest of the ligaments of the foot. Its thickness, pearly lustre, and the longitudinal direction of its fibres are very remarkable. It arises from the posterior and inferior part of the calcaneum, and passing directly forwards, terminates in part at the oblique tuberosity observed at the inferior surface of the OS cuboides. The rest of its fibres, which are much longer than the others, pass below the fibrous sheath of the peroneus longus, and divide into several fasciculi which go to the posterior extremi- ty of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and give insertion to muscular fibres. This ligament corresponds below to the deep- seated muscles of the sole of tlie foot. 757. Inferior and Deep Ligament between the Calcaneum and os Cuboides. This ligament, which is shorter and situated higher than the preceding, and separated from it by a great quantity of adipose cellular tissue, arises from the calcaneum before the superficial li- gament, and proceeding a little inwards, is inserted wholly into the tuberosity of the os cuboides. 758. Synovial Membrane. Its course is sufficiently simple, as it only covers the two cartilaginous surfaces, upper, and inferior deep ligaments between the calcaneum and cuboid bone ; it is seen exposed in several of the interstices in the former; exter- nally, corresponds to the sheath of the peroneus lojigus^ and in- ternally to a fibrous and cellular tissue. ARTICULATJON OF THE SCAPHOID WITH THE CUUOID BONE. 759. A kind of interosseous ligament is observed between the scaphoid and cuboid bones. It is very strong and firm, with short, dense fibres, and firmly attached to the two bones. In the sole of the foot, there is also observed another inferior ligament^ rounded," concealed in the cellular tissue, and extended obliquely between the scaphoid and cuboid bones. When the two bones touch each other by a surface covered with cartilage, there is observed, moreover, a small special synovial bag^ and a dorsal ligament^ which passes transversely from one to