28 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 77- Its posterior, inner, or mediastinal surface, is porous, somewhat concave, and also presents the four Unes mentioned above. At its upper part it gives attachment to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; on the sides, to the triangular muscles of the sternum; its middle part, especially to the left, corresponds to the mediastinum. 78. The upper bone of the sternum (manubrium) is thicker and broader, but shorter than the body to which it is'united by carti- lage especially in the young person, and is thus capable of moving slightly on it. Its upp^r extremity is very thick and has a semi- lunar notch in the middle where the interclavicular ligament is situated. On either side of this notch there is, for the articulation of the clavicles, a sigmoid cavity, which is encrusted with carti- lage, shallow, and inchned outwards and backwards. Below this the manubrium decreases in breadth, and there are successively re- marked on its border, the surface for the cartilage of the first rib, then a sharp edge, and lastly a half articular surface, which toge- ther with another half on the upper angle of the body, forms a com- plete cavity for the articulation of the anterior extremity of the cartilage of the second rib. The body is situated between the manubrium and the xiphoid appendix, is broader below than above, and has cavities on its sides for the articulation of a part of the cartilage of the second rib, for those of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, and for a part of that of the seventh.* 79. The JCiphoid or ensiform aqipendix is a cartilaginous pro- longation, which is subject to great variation of form in different individuals, being simple or bifurcated, pointed or obtuse, curved or straight, long or short, thick or thin, not unfrequently perforated by a hole for the passage of vessels and nerves, &c. This appen- dage, which is seldom wanting, is sometimes ossified. Its sides give attachment to the transverse muscles and the aponeuroses of most of the abdominal muscles, and into its anterior surface is in- serted the costo-xiphoid ligament. The lower extremity of the sternum descends far beyond the ar- ticulation of the seventh costal cartilage. 80. In the sternum, viewed as a whole, the Meral edges are thick, and present each seven articular cavities which receive the cartilages of the true ribs. The uppermost of these cavities is ob- long and shallow. Its substance is evidently continuous with the first costal cartilage, over which the two compact laminfe of the sternum even project a little. The rest are angular, and corres- pond, at their bottom, to the lines of which we have spoken, which makes them appear deeper in the child than in the adult, because * There is sometimes at the inferior part of the liody a hole passing through its substance, tlie result of its mode of ossification, wiiicli is in most cases closed up by a cartilaginous membrane It was supposed by Du Laurens, Kiolan, and some other anatomists to occur more frequently in women than in men, an opinion which ex- perience does not confirm.