ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 6i8 and in the fat which surrounds it, and anastomoses witli a twig oi' the left coronary artery. Afterwards, iive or six other small branches ascend upon the right auricle, three before and three be- hind, and extend over the vena; cavtc and the inter-auricular sep- tum ; while some others, of larger size, and indeterminate num- ber, descend and ramify upon the two surfaces of the right ventri- cle. The most remarkable of these latter follows the thin margin of the heart, separates into two twigs, and anastomoses upon the summit of the organ with the left coronary artery. 2286. The branch which creeps in the posterior groove of the heart sends an uncertain number of twigs to the right and left, over the corresponding wall of the two ventricles. I'hey are pro- longed as far as the two margins of the organ. It also furnishes two or three pretty large twigs, "which dive horizontally into the septum of the ventricles, and there unite with those of the oppo- site coronary artery. 2287- The other branch throws backwards small twigs over the left auricle, and others of somewhat larger size over the ventricle of the same side. In descending along the thick margin of the heart, it gives off ramifications which anastomose with those of the pre- ceding branch or of the left coronary artery. OF THE LEFT COUONAKy AllTERY OF THE HEAllT. (Arteria Coronaria Cordis Sinistra). 2288. Much smaller than the preceding, and a little higher, it arises like it from the commencement of the aorta, but to the left side of the pulmonary artery. It immediately directs itself down- wards and a little to the left and forwards, between the pulmonary artery and the left auricle, by the appendage of which it is at first entirely concealed. It then enters the groove of the anterior sur- face of the heart, and runs along its whole extent to the summit of that organ. 2289. Before arriving at the base of the ventricle, the left co- ronary artery gives off no branch; but there, it sends to the right a rather small branch to the aorta and pulmonary artery, and a more considerable one to the left, which winds between,the auricle and ventricle, and descends upon the thick margin of the heart, subdividing into several twigs, which anastomose with one of the branches of the preceding artery. Frequently also at the same place, there arises a third, branch which penetrates vertically into the septum of the ventricles. 2290. In the anterior gi'oove of the heart, the artery of which we speak sends off laterally several more or less oblique branches, which subdivide in the anterior wall of the two ventricles, particu- lariy of the left, and which, towards the summit of the heart, inos- cidute with those of the right coronary artery. Others, uuim-