565 OF THE MEATUS AUDITORIUS EXTERNUS. the auricle is continued into its interior and lines it. Its hony por- tion has already been described (174) ; we shall therefore pass to the other parts which enter into its composition. 199B. Of the Cartilage. It is a pretty broad triangular la- mina, of which the base is continuous with that of the tragus (1990, 5°), and with the anterior and inferior part of the concha. Irregularly curved from below upwards and from before backwards, it does not describe an entire circle, and forms a portion of canal completed by a fibrous membrane, and which, in the adult, is shorter than the bony portion. Its inner extremity is prolonged in- feriorly into a point, and is only connected with the temporal bone by a fibrous tissue. Near the tragus, this cartilage presents a transverse fissure. A similar one is observed a little farther on ; and sometimes, although rarely, there even exists a third. These fissures, {incisures of San- torini), occupy only a portion of the extent of the cartilaginous lamina, and are filled with a fibrous cellular tissue. Sometimes also they present muscular fibres ; but these cannot be considered as forming a separate muscle, as some anatomists maintain. 1999. Of the Fibrous Portion. It unites above and behind the two edges of the cartilage, and completes the canal in this place. Sometimes it is very indistinct, but it is always prolonged between the cartilage and the circumference of the bony canal of the ear, and connects them with each other. 2000. Of the Skin of the meatus aicditorius. It is a prolonga- tion of that which invests the auricle. Presenting at first the same tint and thickness as the latter, it loses its whiteness and be- comes thinner in proportion as it approaches the membrana tym- pani, over which it is reflected so as to form a kind of cul-de-sac. It is covered in its whole extent by a very fine down, and at its origin furnished with pretty long and very apparent hairs. It presents a great quantity of porosities, which are the excretory ori- fices of the ceruminous glands. It adheres very feebly to the sub- jacent parts, and is connected with them by cellular tissue. Its adhesion, however, is more marked in the place where it invests the bony portion, and especially beneath; but it may be detached without effort from the membrana tympani. 2001. Of the Ceruminous Glands. They are met with under the skin, in the cellular tissue, at the upper and back parts of the canal, in the place where the cartilage does not exist. They have a spherical or elliptical form, a reddish yellow colour, and a con- siderable density. Each of them has an excretory orifice of its own which opens into the meatus and pours out the cerumen there. I heir intimate structure is very little known. 2002. The Cerumen is a thick, oily, very bitter fluid, of a yel- low colour, partly soluble in water under the form of an emulsion, ittle affected by exposure to air, not putresciblc, and incapable of being acted upon by alcohol. This humour is inflammable; when placed upon a piece of lighted charcoal, it quickly intumcsccs and