54 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 176. A Cerebral or Internal Aspect. This aepect presents at its upper part, a surface which is cut obliquely, and deeply striated, by which this bone is articulated with the lower edge of the parie- tal. This surface is much broader in its middle part than behind, and especially than before, where it runs into the circumference oi the bone. Under it, there is observed a concave uneven space, marked with several arterial furrows, and cerebral impressions. 177- A pyramidal, triangular process, having its summit direct- ed forwards and inwards towards the sphenoid bone, and slightly inclined in that direction, rises from the middle of the cerebral aspect of the temporal bone: this is the Petrous Process {pars jie- trosa), in which, on account of its form, there are distinguished: 1°, An upper and anterior surface, which presents in its middle a small irregular aperture, named Hiatus Fallopii, through whicli a nervous filament from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and a small artery, are transmitted to the acqueduct of Fallopius. Ante- riorly to this hole, there is observed a smaU single or double groove, "which is straight and shallow, and lodges the nerve and artery just mentioned; behind it, is a prominence, which indicates the position of the superior semicircular canal. The whole surface, moreover, is covered with cerebral impressions. 2°, A posterior surface, covered like the preceding, by the dura mater, on which there is seen, at its upper and fore part, a wide oblique aperture, with rovmded edges, which is the orifice of a canal named the i7i- ternal auditory {meatus auditorius internus.) This canal has a di- rection forwards and outwards, and is abruptly terminated by a vertical bony plate, in the upper part of which there is a small opening, leading into the aqueduct of Fallopius, for the passage of the facial nerve: beneath this opening is a sort of crest, which svirmounts a number of pores, through which pass the filaments of the portio mollis to the labyrinth. Behind the aperture of the meatus auditorius internus, there is observed an irregular cavity, widest in young bones, into which is fixed a prolongation of the dura mater; behind this is a narrow, triangular, and very short sHt, in which the aqueduct of the vestibule {aquccductus vestibidi) terminates ; a pretty distinct groove descends from this slit toward the jugular fossa, of which we shall presently speak. This sur- face is marked with impressions similar to those which we have ob- served on the upper, from which it is separated by a blunt edge, presenting internally a semilunar depression, on which rests the tri- facial nerve, aiid marked in its whole length with a superficial channel, in which is lodged the superior petrosal sinus of the du- ra mater. 3°, A very complex inferior surface, placed on the outA side of the cranium : internally, it presents a very rough space, into which are inserted the fibres of the levator palati and tensor tym- pani muscles, and which is bounded externally by the orifice of the carotid canal, and by a cavity which occurs behind it: this cavity, which is named the jugular fossa {fossa hulhi vena jugidaris)^ lodges the commencement of the jugular vein, it is limited poste