ACTIVE ORGANS OF. LOCOIVIOTION. 1. c. torn. iii. p. 308. passing along a space of two or three inches, terminates in a tliin and narrow tendon, which passes between the soleus and gastroc- nemius, and about the lower fourth of the leg, adheres to the in- ner side of the tendo Achillis, which it accompanies to the calca- neum, where it is inserted by expanding. 1425. Its posterior surface is covered by the gastrocnemius and the skin ; the anterior is applied upon the knee-joint, its posterior ligament (719), the popliteal vessels, and the popliteus and soleus muscles. 1426. This muscle extends the foot on the leg, or the leg on the foot. It may also contribute to bend the leg on the thigh. OF THE POPLITEUS. 1427. This muscle is situated at the upper and back part of : the leg, and behind the knee-joint. It is short, Hat, nearly trian-'u gular, and arises, by a thick and strong tendon, upwards of an ; inch in length, from the anterior part of a depression that is observed upon the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, beneath the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. This tendon, which is embraced anteriorly by the I synovial membrane of that articulation, adhering to the external; • semilunar cartilage, is converted into an aponeurosis which descends ; for some extent on the fore part of the muscle, and is afterwards • concealed among its fleshy fibres. The latter, -which are so much ' the longer and more oblique the lower they are, are dh-ected down- wards and inwards, and terminate on the posterior and superio;'^ s triangular surface of the tibia, on the inner edge of that bone, and ' on a thin aponeurosis, detached from the tendon of the semi-mem- ' branosus (1391), which covers it posteriorly. ' • , 1428. The posterior surface of this muscle is covered by the • gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles, the popliteal vessels, and the » posterior tibial nerve. The anterior is applied upon the articula- > tion of the tibia and fibula, the tibialis posticus muscle, and the tibia. Its outer edge, which is longer than the inner, is connected': above by a thin membrane with the upper part of the fibula and j the soleus. 'S 1429- This muscle bends the thigh and the leg upon each ) other, and draws the point of the foot inwards, making the tibia turn upon its axis.*"!" * Winslow affirms thattlie popliteus does not assist in bending the knee-joint; of the correctness of this opinion every anatomist may judge, by i-oinparing what I have said when describing the anatomy of the thigh-bone, with tlie reasons assigned, by that great anatomist in his " Anatomical Exposition." -j- Duplex visus est. Fabricius ab'Aquapendbnte de motu locali auimalium, Cap. de gressu, in Ej. Opp. omnib. anat. et physiolog. Lips. 1687. P. 359. Soemni.