8!28 ORGANS OF GENERATION. rons membrane communicates with the eMerior. In this cavity, there is generally found a. considerable quantity of mucous fluid ; but no valves are ever seen in it. 3050. The Fallopian tubes are intei'nally lined by a mucous membrane still thinner than that of the uterus. It is soft, reddish, and slightly villous, and presents several longitudinal plica?. No mucous follicles have hitherto been discovered in it. 3051. Externally, these organs are formed by a very thin lay- er of a spongy and erectile tissue, similar to that of the urethra, and invested by the peritoneum. t" \i OF THE OVAUIES. 3052. The Ovaries (Ovaria), which for a long time were called the Testicles of the female (testes miiliebres) are two egg-shaped bodies, a little smaller than the testicles, placed in the substance of the broad ligament. They are compressed from before back- wards, of a pale red colour, wrinkled and rough at their sur- face, which often presents a kind of cicatrices. Their outer ex- tremity gives attachment to one of the fimbriae of the morsus dia- boli. The inner is attached to the uterus by a small filamentous cord about an inch and a half long, entirely solid and called the Ligament of the Ovary {ligamentum ovarii). 3053. The ovary is enveloped by a dense, cellulo-filamentous membrane, the inner surface of which sends a very great number of prolongations into the parenchyma of the organ. This paren- chyma itself is soft and spongy ; when torn, it appears composed of cellular and vascular lobules, of a grayish colour, goi-ged with a great quantity of fluid. In the midst of these lobules, are lodg- ed small vesicles, (vesiculcB s. ovula Graqfiana) to the number of from fifteen to twenty, transparent, of the size of a millet seed, and formed by a very delicate pellicle, in which is contained a viscid fluid, of a reddish or yellowish colour. Around these ve- sicles the vascular ramifications are more numerous and more mi- nute. OF THE MAMMJE. GENERAL DISPOSITION. 3054 Before the age of puberty, the Mamma;, which are of very small size, scarcely contribute to determine the difference be- tween the sexes; but in the adult and well formed woman, they present themselves on the lateral and anterior part of the chest, be- tween the axilla and sternum, under the form of two hemispheri- cal, somewhat conical, hard and firm eminences, slightly, scparat-