795 OF THIS SUPUA-UENAL CAPSULES. fictl with its tissue, and which is met with in three different states, iviz. in the arteries and in the veins, as takes place in other organs ; ;and in a sort of intimate combination with the other organic clc- iments, and with a certain quantity of albumen. The latter is thick, ;slightly viscous, opaque, of a livid red colour like wine lees. It ; appears to be contained in very numerous cellules or areolas des- itined for itself, of which the walls are formed by the prolongation I of the internal surface of the fibrous envelope of the spleen. Some ; anatomists think, however, that these cellules have no existence, ; and that the parenchyma of the spleen is essentially formed of ar- tterial and venous capillary vessels, with very thin and very exten- ; sible walls, which communicate immediately with each other ;* form- iing an erectile tissue (16. C. a.) OF THE ORGANS OF THE SECRETION AND EXCRETION OF THE URINE. OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 2927. The Supra-renal Capsules {Renes succenturiati, vel Cop- t sulae airabiliaricBJ are two small bodies placed in the abdomen, ' without the peritoneum, above the kidneys, of which they embrace I the upper extremity. They are never wantmg, but their uses are I totally unknown. Hollow and oval in the adult, they are prisma- :tic and gi-anulated in the foetus, in which their volume is much ; greater than in the adult, on which account it has been supposed i that they must have some connexion with the exercise of nutrition i in the first stages of life. These capsules, which are of a yellowish-brown colour, more or I less tinged with red, present a posterior surface which corresponds 1 to the diaphragm and the upper part of the psoas muscle; an an- t terior surface covered on the right side by the vena cava inferior, ; the duodenum and the liver, and on the left side by the spleen and ] pancreas; and an inferior surface, which is concave, and applied I upon the summit of the corresponding kidney. 2928. The left supra-renal capsule is commonly a little higher I than the right, a difference which depends upon the position of the 1 two kidneys. Both are kept in position by a great quantity of adi- 1 pose cellular tissue, by some denser filaments which are prolonged ; as far as the kidneys, and by the vessels which they receive or ' which emerge from their tissue. 2929. Each supra-renal capsule is only, properly speaking, a > small bag with thick parenchymatous walls, formed of very small i granulations, collected into lobules, and having but little consist- I ence, especially at the exterior. In its interior there exists a nar- t • fllurjoliu, JIanuel d'Anatomic, T. ii. p. 419, Paris, 18!c, 8vo.