655 OF THE OCCIPITAL ARTERY. distance from the commissure of the Hps, passes under the trian- oularis muscle, and advances tortuously in the substance of the free edge of the under lip, on the middle of which it joins the op- posite coronary branch, after sending numerous twigs to the mem- brane of the mouth, and to the orbicularis, triangularis, quadratus and levator menti muscles. These last form a very complicated net-work in the integuments, by their numerous anastomoses with the ramifications of the submental and inferior dentar arteries. 2319. Superior Coronary or Labial Branch. It arises above and very near the commissure. Large and flexuous, it proceeds inwards in the substance of the edge of the upper lip, at the mid- dle of which it anastomoses with that of the other side by a parti- cular twig, itself ascending vertically towards the septum of the nose on which it terminates. Its twigs form a very complex net- work in the mucous membrane of the upper lip, in the integu- ments and orbicularis oris and depressor aloe nasi muscles. Some of them go to the gums and unite with those of the alveolar artery.* 2320. Dorsal Branches of the Nose. These vary much in number and disposition. Sometimes they terminate the facial artery, which then only communicates by a twig with the ophthal- mic. Frequently also they occupy only the lower part of the nose; while, in other cases, they are uniformly distributed in its whole extent. But they always anastomose in the median line with those of the opposite side, and are distributed to all the parts of that or- gan, its muscles, cartilages, integuments, &c. Several of their ra- mifications turn over the edge of the nostrils, or pass through the cartilages, to gain the commencement of the pituitary membrane. 2321. Superior Muscular Branches. Their number varies much. They are very small, and distributed in an irregular man- ner to the levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, zygoraaticus minor and orbicularis pal- pebrarum, as well as in the integuments. They communicate with the ramifications of the infra-orbitar and ophthalmic arteries. OF THE OCCIPITAL ARTERY. (Arteria occipitalis.) 2322. It arises from the posterior part of the external cai-otid, under the parotid gland, and opposite the lingual artery. It as- cends at first obliquely backwards, beneath the sterno-cieido-mas- * When the fingers arc passed into the mouth the coronary arteries will be felt beating near the angles, being, in fact, placed close to the mucous mcinhrane. A little pressure of the lip, therefore, between the fingers, applied in that situation will arrest haemorrhage from any part of the lip mesial to the pressure.