18 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. an angle of ninety degrees with the ground on which it rests ; this line, which is supposed to pass through the summit of the head, to terminate between the feet, serves as a basis for giving regional names to the different organs, according as they are, with refer- ence to it, anterior, posterior, lateral, superior, &c. It is named the vertical mesial line, and divides the body into two similar halves. OF THE TRUNK. OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN, (Columyia vertebralis ; spina dorsij. 4s']. The Vertebral or Spinal Column, is a sort of flexible bony pillar, placed at the posterior and central part of the trunk, and extending from the head to the sacrum. Although capable of bend- ing in all directions, it is yet very solid, and is excavated through- out its whole length by a canal which lodges the spinal marrow (ca- nalis pro medulla spinali). It is rounded in'front, irregular be- hmd, and perforated on the sides with a great number of holes. This part of the trunk is composed of twenty-four short and very angular bones, placed one above the other, named Vertebras.* OF THE VERTEBRvE IN GENERAL. 48. Form. In every Vertebra, there are distinguished a body, seven processes, four notches, and a hole. The Body (Corpus vertebrae) occupies the middle and anterior part. It is cyhndrical or oval, thick and broad. Above and be- low, it is adapted to certain cartilages, which are placed between the vertebras. Transversely convex in front, it forms part of the vertebral foramen behind, and in both these directions, but espe- cially the latter, presents several distinct apertures for blood-ves- sels. The seven processes of each vertebra are -.—Ist, The Spinous Process, (Processus Spi7iosus,) situated posteriorly, and on the median hne, most commonly terminating in a point, and bifurcat- mg at Its base, to unite, by means of two osseous planes, named Vertebral Lamince, with the transverse processes. 2d, The two Transverse Processes, f Processus Transt^ersi) which project outwards on either side, and give attachment to muscles. 3d, The four Articular or Oblique Processes, f Processus arfic7i. lares seu Obhqui) of which two are superior, and two inferior. They are covered with cartilage, and serve to connect the vertebrae with each other. • From vcrlcrc,\o turn.