190 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. AJITICULATIONS OF THE ItlBS WITH THK BODIKS OF THE VEFl- TKUIi.F,. 611. T hese articulations, wliicli belong to the order of angular ginglymi. and which are extremely close, result from the junction of the heads of the ribs, invested with a thin cartilaginous lamina, with the cavities formed on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae (87, 53). These cavities, as we have already shown, belong to one vertebra only for the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs ; but for all the others, they are formed on the bodies of two contiguous verte- hrixi and on the fibro-cartilage which connects them : they are all covered with a thin layer of cartilage, which is destitute of the po- lished appearance commonly remarked in organs of this nature. There is also observed in each of them a small mass of the reddish cellular tissue which has been taken for synovial glands, togethei* with the following ligaments. 612. Anterior or Radiated Ligament {Ligamentum caqntuli costarum). It is not the same in all the articulations of the ribs, on account of the peculiarity which we have exposed in the pre- ceding paragraph. In the nine which follow the first, it is formed of three flat and thin fibrous fasciculi, which are fixed separately to the two vertebrae, and the fibro-cartilage, which concur to form the articular cavity, and which, converging, attach themselves all round the anterior part of the head of the rib ; they constitute an irregularly quadrilateral fasciculus, with radiating fibres, of which the superficial are longer than the deep-seated. The small middle fasciculus which comes horizontally from the fibro-cartilage is the least distinct. The radiated ligaments of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, which are not thus divided, do not, however, present only a single order of fibres : part of that of the first is attached to the last cer- vical vertebra, and those of the two others also extend to the neigh- bouring vertebrae. The anterior surface of these radiated ligaments is covered by the branches of the thoracic ganglia of the great sympathetic, by the pleura, and, on the right side only, by the vena azygos. The posterior surface is applied against the articulation, for which it forms a sort of fibrous capsule, in conjunction with the middle costo-transverse ligament. 613. Inter-articidarLigament. It exists in the interior of the articulation of the head of each rib, from the second to the tenth inclusive, and is wanting in the rest. It is a small fibrous fascicu- lus, slightly tinged with yellow, of a very close texture, more or less thick, flattened from above downwards, short, fixed on the one hand to tlie prominent line which separates the two articular sur- faces of the head of the rib, and on the other to the angle of the