OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 6d9 gives off' many twigs which are uniformly spread out in all direc- tions in the integuments, the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle, tlic attollens auriculam and the pericranium, communicating with those of the anterior branch, and of the opposite temporal, occipital and posterior auricular arteries. OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY AUTEIIY. (Art. Mcuvillaris interna.) 2336. This is larger than the temporal, with which it forms the termination of the external carotid ; it is remarkable for its complex course and for the great number of important branches which it gives off to the deep parts of the face. Immediately after its ori- gin, it passes behind the neck of the condyle of the jaw, bending inwards and downwards, then advances directly inwards, between the dentar and lingual nerves, and arrives in the interval which separates the two pterygoidei muscles, where it changes its direc- tion a little to proceed forwards to the maxillary tuberosity. It then bends, becomes vertical, glides between the two fixed inser- tions of the pterygoideus externus muscle (954), and ascends in the bottom of the zygomatic fossa between it and the temporalis muscle. Finally, arriving near the floor of the orbit, it again takes a horizontal and transverse direction, enters the spheno-maxillary fossa, and divides into several branches in the middle of the adipose cellular tissue which fills that cavity. The internal maxillary artery is consequently horizontal near its origin and termination, and vertical in the middle. It describes, moreover, several very distinct sinuosities, which vary in different subjects. Branches which arise from the Internal Maxillary Artery, behind the Neck of the Condyle of the Jaw. 2337. The middle Meningeal Artery. This is the largest branch of the internal maxillary artery. It ascends vertically towards the skull, between the two pterygoidei muscles, accompanied by two filaments of the inferior maxillary nerve which go to unite with the facial nerve. It gives off at first some small twigs to the pterygoi- deus externus, circumflexus palati, and constrictor pharyngis superi- or muscles, as well as to the temporal and sphenoid bones; some of these latter pass through the sphenoid bone by particular aper- tures, and lose themselves in the dura mater. It thus arrives at the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, by which it enters the cranium. But before this there separates from it a pretty large branch, which glides forwards and inwards, between the superior wall of the zygomatic fossa and the origin of ihe deep temporal V