PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, ()58. Synovial Membrane. After lining the glenoid cavity and the ligamentous rim which surrounds it, this meml)rane is reflected hackwards over the neck of the scapula to reach the inner surface of the capsular ligament, which is entirely covered by it; and where the fibres of this ligament separate, it is applied im- mediately upon the side of the tendon of the subscapularis mus- cle ; and after arriving at the neck of the humerus, is reflected to proceed over the cartilage of its head. When this reflec- tion takes place, it furnishes a prolongation which descends for about an inch along the bicipital groove, ascending again upon the tendon of the biceps muscle, enveloping it on all sides, to the glenoid cavity, and forming inferiorly a cul-de-sac, which prevents the synovia from flowing out. By this arrangement, the tendon of the biceps traverses the articvdation freely, but is not contain- ed in the interior of the synovial membrane. At the upper part of this articulation, there is a bursa mucosa, which extends from the capsular ligament to the vault formed by the acromion and coracoid processes, and by the acromio-coracoid ligament. It always contains a great quantity of synovia, and ap- pears to belong as much to the supra-spinatus muscle, as to the ar- ticulation itself. 659- This articulation also contains small granulated, reddish, and very vascular masses of cellular tissue ; they are found col- lected in greater or less number at the inner part of the upper and lower attachments of the capsular ligament; the arteries and veins of such of these bodies as are situated upon the humerus, come from the anterior circumflex vessels, which diffuse over the capsule a great nvxmber of branches. The cellular grains placed on the neck of the scapula receive branches from the supra-scapu- lar vessels: some of these latter are distributed to the capsule. ELBOW JOINT. 660. This articulation constitutes a perfect angular ginglymus, formed by the meeting of the superior extremities of the ulna and radius with the inferior extremity of the humerus. Tliese differ- ent parts present in their aggregate two transverse rows of emi- nences and cavities, Avhich fit into each other in a very close man- ner, and all whose surfaces are invested with cartilages. That of the cavity of the radius is continued thinner over the cyhndri- cal circumference of its extremity. The cartilage of the great sigmoid cavity of the vilna (458) is prolonged over the small cavity of the same name ; it is interrupted at its middle part by a transverse depression, widened at its extremities, where it is con- verted into notches. t our ligaments serve to keep together the surfaces of this arti- culation, which are lined in their whole extent by a synovial mem- brane.