VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 23 than the others, for the tooth-like {)rocess. This point is some- times formed by two distinct germs.*' It is articulated with the first and third vertebrae, and also with the occipital bone through the medium of ligaments. 59. The Seventh Vertebra {vertebra prominens), differs from the rest only in being larger, and in having its spinous process more elono-ated, and commonly not bifurcated, as well as in the circum- stance of the hole in the base of its transverse processes being ge- nerally smaller than in the other vertebrte, or even altogether wanting. This vertebra has always a point of ossification more than the others, consisting of a small rib-like bone placed transversely be- fore the pedicle, which connects the processes to the body, and which is not united with it or the body of the vertebra until the age of five or six years. Sometimes its outer extremity extends beyond the summit of the transverse process a few lines, an inch, or even more, so as to form a rudimentary rib, analogous to the cervical ribs of certain animals, -f- B. In the dorsal region, there are distinguished: 60. The First Dorsal Vertebra, of which the body is more ex- tended transversely than from before backwards, and on the sides presents a complete costal impression above, and a half cavity of the same nature below, which, together with a similar half cavity in the second dorsal vertebra, forms a whole articular surface for the head of the second rib. The spinous process is thick and long, with a tubercular extremity, and is nearly horizontal in its direc- tion. The articular processes are oblique. 61. The Tenth Dorsal Vertebra, which generally has an entire articular surface on the upper part of either side of its body, for the tenth rib.+ 62. The Eleventh Dorsal Vertebra is very remarkable for its size. Its body, which is almost round, approaches much in its ge- neral appearance to the lumbar vertebrae, and presents on each side, towards the pedicle of the transverse and articular processes, a single entire depression for the eleventh rib. The spinous pro- cess is short, broad, and somewhat horizontal. The transverse processes have no articular surface at their extremity. 63. The Twelfth Dorsal Vertebra presents exactly the same characters as the eleventh, only its transverse processes are shorter than those of the latter, and the lower articular processes convex and turned outwards, like those of the lumbar vertebrne. C. In the Lumbar Region, there is only distinguished the fifth vertebra, which is much thicker before than behind, the lower sur- • When a longitudinal section of the body and odontoid process of the second ver- tebra IS made, the process sometimes appears to descend into the body as if it nad been inserted into it. t wi''"'^''' ^^^'""''^•^ """^ I'Osteose, Nouveau Journal de MkJecine, Janvier, 1819. + Wlien this is tile case, the ninth vertebra must also differ from tlie others in Jiaving a half articular surface only, on the side of its body, and tliat too on the upper part; tins surface \», however, pretty large.