PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCO^JOTION. OF THE HYOID BONE* f 275. ''J^'lie name of Uyoid Bo7ie (os Hyoides; ossa Linyualia) is given to a bony arch, of a parabolical form, convex anteriorly, suspended horizontally in the midst of the soft parts of the neck, between the base of the tongue and the larynx, entirely separated from tlie rest of the skeleton, and composed of five distinct bones, capable of moving on each other, and connected by ligaments. 270. The piece which occupies the centre of the arch (medium on linguule^) is the largest and broadest; it is flattened from before backwards, and is of a quadrilateral form. Its anterior aspect is uneven and convex in the middle; it is divided by a prominent horizontal line, I'ather indistinct on the lateral parts, into two por- tions, which are each divided into two small cavities by a ridge cutting the horizontal line at right angles : this aspect gives at- tachment, from below upwards, to the digastric, stylo-hyoidei, mylo- hyoidei, genio-hyoidei, and hyoglossi muscles. The posterior aspect of the body is concave and smooth ; and is filled by a yel- lowish cellular tissue which separates it from the epiglottis. Its loiver edge is longer and more unequal than the upper; it gives attachment externally to the sterno-hyoidei, onio-hyoidei, and thyro- hyoidei muscles, and at the middle to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The upper edge gives insertion to the fibres of the hyo-glossus. On each of the lateral edges, which are less sharp than the upper and lower, there is placed a slightly convex cartilaginous facet which is joined to the lateral pieces. 277- The two lateral pieces, (Lateralta ossa lingualia, seu cmmua inferiora s. laryoigea), are longer but much narrower tlian the body. They are broader and stronger before than behind, contract in the middle, and terminate posteriorly in a small round- ed head, covered in the recent state, by a cartilaginous substance. Anteriorly, they present a plain surface which corresponds to that of the lateral edges of the middle bone. At the upper part they are limited by a smooth and sharp falciform edge, into which are inserted the hyoglossus and constrictor pharyngis medius. Below, they give insertion to the thyro-hyoid membrane. To their outer surface are attached the digastric and thyro-hyoid muscles. The inner is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. In the same subject, they frequently present great diflerences in their form and size, on the different sides. 278. The two upper pieces, (Superior a pisiformia ossicula lingualia, seu cornua superiora s. styloidea), are short, pyra- midal, inclined backwards and upwards, and terminated by a more or less prolonged point; they give attachment below to some » 'T and tiSos^ forma, it being supposed to resemblo the (ireek Kntor Upsilon. ■f Errant, qui ossa lingualia unum continuum os esse, purhibent, quuin non solum sine ri illata, sola putredine, in quinque ossa abscedunt, sed etiam medium os utriquu laterali piano ossi ligamenta capsularm junguut.;—Soemm. De Corp. Hum, lab. Tom. i. p. 208.