10 PASSIVE ORGANS OF roCOMOTION. incapability of extension. In general, their colour, when fresh, is an opaque white, reddish externally, and of a more or less deep red internally. In man, and the animals of the higher orders, the bones are always internal, being surrounded by the muscles and integuments, whether they form cavities for the nervous and vas- cular centres, or constitute the framework of the limbs. They are immediately invested on the outside with a fibrous membrane, call- ed the periosteum, and are moistened through their whole sub- stance by an oily fluid. 20. The bones, like other parts of the body, have arteries and veins. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in them, but M. Dumeril has seen nerves which penetrated into their tissue along with the arteries. That they contain much cellular tissue, is demonstrated by the phenomena of the formation of callus, and by long maceration in acidulous water. 21. On examining the intimate structure of these organs, it is observed that they are composed of two principal elements, viz. an organized parenchyma, formed of gelatine and an inert salino-ter- reous substance, which fills up the areolae of the parenchyma, and exists in the midst of these living parts, only for the purpose of giving them a solidity which is absolutely necessary for the per- formance of the functions that have been allotted them. 22. The existence of the parenchyma of bones is demonstrated, by immersing them in dilute muriatic acid, which removes the saline matter, and leaves untouched a cartilaginous body retaining the form of the bone. After this process the bones of children become softer and more viscid than those of adults. Also, by the appear- ances exhibited in certain diseases, in which the bones become soft and almost cartilaginous, as in rachitis in particular. 23. The earthy matter of bones may be obtained separately and with the same form as before, by calcining them. By this means the gelatinous part is destroyed and the earthy part left, which is white, friable, and brittle, unless the heat has been urged so far as to reduce it to a state of imperfect vitrification. The earthy matter is also obtained separately by boUing bones in a Papin''s digester, and those bones met with in the sandy deserts of Africa are found to have lost their animal matter by the action of the elements. Lastly, Some diseases, cancer for instance, render the bones very fragile, on account of the greater relative quantity of this matter which they induce in them. 24. The animal matter constitutes more than one half the weight of bones; the remaining part is composed of inorganic matter, which, according to Berzelius, consists of phosphate of lime, carbo- nate of lime, fluate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, soda, muriate of \ soda, and water. Traces of iron, manganese, silica, and alumina i have been discovered by M. Vauquelin. Phosphate of lime, how- ever, undoubtedly forms the prcdommant ingredient in the consti- tution of the bones.