MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 317 1157. Its anterior surface is covered by the aponeurosis of the ;.ic-arm. The posterior covers the flexor perforatus. Its two does are united above, the one with the flexor carpi radialis, the thcr with the flexor perforatus. 1158. It stretches the pahnar aponeurosis, and bends the hand the fore-arm, or the fore-arm on the hand. OF THE FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS. 1159. Situated internally of the preceding muscles, at the fore ai t of the inner edge of the fore-arm, long, thin, flat, semi-penni- irm (791), broader above than below, this muscle arises from the jiner condyle, by means of the common tendon, and from the inner side of the olecranon; between these two origins the ulnar icrve passes, covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the one lO the other. It also takes origin, externally, from a short apo- eurotic septum which separates it from the flexor perforatus; in- jrnally, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, which presents for iihis attachment very distinct and strong fibres, proceeding to hke posterior edge of the ulna, and there fix the muscle over a Treat extent. From these difierent points the fleshy fibres descend, hhe outer nearly vertically, the inner obliquely forwards and out- -ards. The first terminate at the upper extremity, the others Jong the whole posterior surface of a tendon which runs for a long idme upon the inner and fore part of the muscle, after being at first concealed in its substance. This tendon becomes free only at the yowest part of the fore-arm, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, oecoming a little broader. At its termination, some fibres are detached from it, of which one set descends before the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, while the others pass before the vilnar ar- r,ery, to be continued into the upper part of the anterior annidar i^igament of the wrist. 1160. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the faponeurosis of the fore-arm; the posterior covers the flexor per- >rorans, the ulnar artery and nerve, and the pronator quadratus. tits outer edge is united above with the flexor perforatus, from hfhich it is separated below by an interval, where the ulnar nerve wnd vessels are seen. 1161. It bends the hand upon the fore-arm, inclining it a little lt"towards the ulna. When it contracts at the same time with the J^'^^^Dsor carpi ulnaris, it draws it directly towards the mesial line. Of" THE FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS Oil PKRFOBATU.S. 11G2. This muscle is elongated, very thick and flattened, and is raituated on the fore-arm between the preceding muscles and tlie ■nexor perforans. It is simple above, but separates into four ten-