STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 427 I I the same relation, as the infundibulum to the pituitary body. It jo-ht also to be remarked, that it is between the pineal gland and ;ie tela choroidea, that the posterior orifice of the arachnoid canal •ccurs. The nature of this small body is unknown. It receives a con- iderable number of vessels. Very frequently, in the adult it con- iiins a quantity of small transparent calculi, very hard, and of a iliceous aspect, varying much in their number and disposition. \they are generally collected into a small quadrilateral mass (^Acer- Mus, Soemm.), under the tela choroidea, near the posterior com- iiissure; at other times, they are irregularly distributed on the ddes, or in the very substance of the organ. On examining the aasses of these small concretions with the microscope, the brothers iVenzel supposed they discovered in them a proper membrane hhich connects them together. The larger among them are not inrmed of a single mass, but are the result of the agglomeration ;T several smaller ones. Their figure is irregular at first sight, uut with a little attention, it is discovered that they are all round. Their surface is rough and dotted with points. 1547- The different parts which we have described above as ex- titing in the interior of the brain, are separated from each other II various places by cavities or intervals known by the name of Yentricles of the Brain. These are distinguished into the Lateral Ventricles, of which there are two, and the Third Ventricle. 1548. The Lateral Ventricles {Ventricicli tricornes') are two lavities of considerable extent, of a figure rather difficult to be de- 'icribed, situated one in either hemisphere. They commence be- iiind the fissura Sylvii, at about two inches from the extremity of luach hemisphere, where they are an inch distant from each other, "^'rom thence they direct themselves upwards, backwards, and in- vards, and are only separated by the Septum lucidum ; they then Proceed horizontally, and separating a second time, as far as the losterior part of the corpus callosum, whence they descend down- s'ards, outwards, and forwards. Finally, they again approach each )ther inferiorly, and terminate behind the fissura Sylvii, under the loint at which they commenced, and in the bottom of a groove of • tvhich we have spoken. At the place where the direction of these -avities is entirely changed, there is observed in the substance of the posterior lobe, a triangular prolongation, presenting its base before, and curved in such a manner as to have its concavity in- wards : this is the Digital Cavity. The upper half of the lateral ventricles is a little broader before than behind, and resembles the half of an elliptical vault. It is prolonged forwards into the anterior lobe by a small angular cavity, named the Anterior Horn. Above, it is formed by the inferior surface of the corjjus callosum ; below, by the anterior fold of the siimc body, the corpora striata, optic thalami, tasnia semicircularis, and tornix ; internally, by the septum lucidum ; externally, by the