752 ORGANS OF CIUCULATIOK. OF THE VERTEBRAL VENOUS SINUSES, AND VEINS OF THE SPINAJC MAHUOW. 2748. In the whole length of the vertebral canal, from the great occipital foramen to the extremity of the sacrum, behind the bodies of the vertebrae, before the dura mater, and on the sides of the pos- terior common vertebral ligament, there prevail two great venous canals, entirely different from the sinuses of the dura mater, nam- ed Vertebral Sinuses. Opposite the anterior condyloid formina, these sinuses commu- nicate each by a twig with the corresponding internal jugular vein, v^ithout having any kind of connexion with the sinuses of the dura mater. Their cahbre is always in the inverse ratio of the greater or less development of the posterior vertebral ligament: thus, in the neck, where it is broad, they are narrow, and in the back where it contracts, they increase in capacity. They are in general more developed upon the bodies of the vertebr.ne than opposite their fibro-cartilages, which is especially observable in the lumbar region, where they present very distinct successive contractions. Considered with reference to their interior, these sinuses have the same disposition as those of the dura mater; in other words, they are transversed in various directions by irregularly distributed membraneous bridles. By their inner side, they communicate with each other by means of prolongations which form true transverse 'sinuses constantly oc- cupying the middle of the body of each vertebra, passing under the .posterior vertebral ligament, and receiving by their middle and anterior part, the veins which arise in the spongy tissue of the ver- tebrae. By their outer side, the vertebral sinuses communicate with the posterior branches of the vertebral (2717)? intercostal (27I8) and lumbar (2740) veins, in the interval of the transverse processes. By their posterior side, they receive the numerous and very slender veins, which creep upon the dura mater enveloping the spi- nal marrow. 2749. In the sacral canal, the vertebral sinuses become much diminished, and change their appearance. Here they are only cylindrical veins of considerable size, immersed in an adipose cel- lular tissue, and have no adhesion to the osseous parts. Their in- ferior extremity is a very delicate twig, which is lost in the fat. Externally they form anastomoses with the lateral sacral veins (2735) ; and, internally, send transverse twigs of communication to each other. 2750. The veins of the spinal marrow have the same disposition as the arteries of that part. They accompany them, and open in- to the inferior cerebellar veins.