PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 84 directs itself backwards, towards the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone : it then presents more distinct dentations, and a greater thickness than in the rest of its extent, where the edges of the bones of which it is formed are extremely thin, and are merely placed together without interlocking by means of denticulations. This is the Sphenoidal suture (Sutura tsplienoidalis). 283. Behind the sphenoid bone there is another transverse su- ture, which is short, and disappears with age ; it is i'ormed by that bone itself and the basilar process of the occipital bone : it is named the Basilar suture (Sutura basilaris). So long as it exists, it is filled up by a cartilaginous plate lying between the bones. 284. On its lateral parts, the sphenoid bone is limited by a curved line, concave posteriorly, arising from the junction of that bone with the squamous portion of the temporal: this is the Sphe- no-temporal suture (Sutura sphenn-temporalis). It presents den- ticulations, although the surfaces of which it is formed are cut very obliquely ; it terminates below toward the glenoid iissure, forming an acute angle with another suture named the Petro-sphenoidal (Sutura. Petro-sphenoidalis), which is produced by the anterior edge of the ])etrous process and the posterior edge of the sphenoid bone; and it unites above with the sphenoidal suture by a short longitudinal line, slightly curved, which results from the junction of the extremity of the great wings of the sphenoid bone with the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone ; this may be named the Spheno-parietal suture (^Sutura spheno-parietalis). 285. From the anterior angle of the latter proceeds the Fronto- parietal or Coronal suture {Sutura coronalis), which cuts the upper part of the cranium almost vertically, and terminates at the corresponding point of the other side. It points out the separa- tion of the frontal and two parietal bones, and is so disposed that the former of these bones i-ests upon each parietal bone superiorly, while it supports them below. It presents denticulations at its upper part, which however are not very distinct, and it is but rare that wormian bones occur in it, which is also the case with the su- tures already mentioned. 28G. From the opposite angle there arises the Squamous suture (^Sutura squamosa), which describes about a third of the circum- ference of a circle, proceeding backwards and downwards. It se- parates the temporal bone from the lower edge of the parietal, and is formed by an overlapping of these bones, the latter sustaining the other, which frequently projects outwards. A little before it terminates, it changes its direction, forming an obtuse and retiring- angle, and proceeds backwards to meet the occipital bone. The last mentioned part of the suture is not squamous : it results from the junction of the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone with the mastoid portion of the temporal. It is always formed by- very irregular and very distinct indentations, and almost always contains supernumerary bones, which are not often met with in the squamous portion properly so called.