495 OF TIIK MEDIAN NERVE. lyGO. The outer branch, which is larger than the other, sends a twig over the back of the hand, which is more or less prolonged upon die fingei-s. It then descends behind the thumb and upon its outer side, also giving some filaments to the fore-finger. Seve- ral of its ramifications anastomose with those of the radial nerve. 1761. The inner branch descends upon the muscles of die thumb, in the palm of the hand, and there subdivides into a mul- titude of filaments which may be traced upon the fingers. OF THE MEDIAN NEKVE. {Nervus Medianus). 1762. This is the largest nerve of the brachial plexus, from which it arises, behind the internal cutaneous nerve, and between the ulnar and external cutaneous nerves. The seventh and eighth cervical nerves, united to the first dorsal, form its principal origin, to which is joined a branch of the common trunk of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves (1758), which forms, with all the other roots, a kind of nervous interlacement around the axillary artery (I749). 1763. After thus originating, the median nerve descends a lit- tle outwards behind the inner edge of the biceps and internally of the brachial arterv. It arrives at the bend of the arm without giv- .... CJ ing off any ramification, and traverses it in its middle part, inter- nally of the biceps and under the median vein. It then sinks be- hind the anti-brachial aponeurosis, between the brachialis internus and pronator teres, passes between the two origins of the latter muscle (1149) and proceeds along the fore-arm between the flexor digitorum subUmis, and flexor profundus, between whose tendons it becomes apparent below. Lastly, it passes along with them under the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, adheres to them by a ,very delicate membraneous cellular tissue, becomes broader and thicker than it was before, and on arriving in the palm of the hand towards the upper part of the metacarpal bones, divides into ; several twigs, which are distributed to the fingers, and which are distinguished numerically, counting from without inwards. !. 1764. As it proceeds between the brachialis internus and prona- tor teres, the median nerve gives off its first twigs to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, flexores digitorum sublimis and profundus, and flexor longus pol- ilicis. They penetrate by the inner surface of most of these muscles, and are lost in their fleshy fibres. ! 1765. Interosseous Twig. Larger than the preceding, and arising under them, this twig separates from the median nerve at J a very acute angle, and gives oft' at its origin a filament which goes • to the flexor sublimis, in which it loses itself The interosseous nerve then passes between the two flexor muscles of the fingers.