687 OF THE HUMERAL AUTEIIY. ed from the triceps extensor muscle by a great quantity of fat; but, in the rest of its extent, it is applied upon the brachialis internus muscle. 2444.. Internally, it is accompanied by the brachial vein and median nerve (1763), and covered by the integuments. 2445. Eatternally, it is applied, in its upper third, upon the in- ner surface of the humerus, from which it is only separated by the lower extremity of the coraco-brachiahs muscle. Farther down it is lodged in the groove between the biceps and brachialis internus muscles ; and at its lowest part, corresponds to the tendon of the biceps. 2446. The brachial artery gives off a great number of branches which are distinguished into anterior, posterior, internal and exter- nal. Inferiorly, it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries Of the Anterior Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2447- They are all distributed to the biceps flexor or the inte- guments. They are in general very slender, and their number indeterminate, as well as their place of origin and their disposition. Most commonly however there are two constant branches towards the upper third of the arm, which descend forwards in the sub- stance of the biceps muscle, and subdivide as far as its lower part. Of the Posterior Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2448. Very short and slender, and irregular as to number, they dive immediately after their origin into the brachialis internus muscle, subdividing there into radiating twigs. Some are seen which proceed downwards as far as the tendon of the muscle, and then change their direction to enter into the bleeps; others bend upwards, and send some ramifications as far as the deltoid muscle. Of the External Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2449. They are small and few in number. They go to the coraco-brachiahs muscle, or pass between the brachialis internus and biceps to be distributed to the integuments. Of the Internal Branches of the Brachial Artery. 2450. The Superficial and Superior Internal Branches. Their number is indeterminate, although always considerable. Some of them ascend towards the fore part of the axilla, and spread out an- teriorly upon the pectoralis major, and externally upon the deltoid,