73 THE LOWEIl MAXILLARY BONE. to the mylo-hyoidei muscles, and posteriorly to the superior con- strictors of the pharynx. , , • 1 j Beneath the inner oblique line, and posteriorly, there is observed an oblong superficial cavity, in which the submaxillary gland is placed. In this cavity is also seen a fiurrow, which ascends to- wards a pretty large irregular hole, (foramen maaillare posterius), which forms the entrance of the Maxillary or Inferior Dentar Canal, {canalis mawillaris) ; this hole presents a very distinct spme above, and in the rest of its circumference, several inequalities for the insertion of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw; it gives passage to the vessels and nerve of the same name, a branch of which runs along the furrow situated under it. This orifice occu- pies the centre of the inner surface of the rami of the jaw, which is marked at its lowest part with inequalities, to which are attached the fibres of the pterygoideus internus. 250. The Lower Edge, which is also named the base of the jaiv, is horizontal, rounded, obtuse before, contracted behind, and traversed at the distance of two-thirds of its length from the chin, and opposite the second large molar tooth, by an ascending chan- nel, which corresponds to the facial artery. It presents a re- markable bulging in the middle of its course, and gives attach- ment to the platysma myoides. 251. The Upper or Alveolar Edge is of considerable breadth, more so, however, behind, where it is a little deflected inwards, than before, where it retains its straightness. In its substance there are formed most commonly sixteen alveoli, sometimes only fourteen or fifteen, and in a few rare cases eighteen, which are in- tended for the reception of the inferior teeth, and constitute to- gether the Lower Alveolar Arch. AlS in the upper jaw, the alveoli here vary in their form accord- ing to the kind of teeth which they receive : the two middle are the smallest and narrowest; those which succeed them are a little larger ; but the third on each side, which contains the canine tooth, is evidently the deepest; those of the small grinders, which come next, are shorter, and are commonly single ; the sixth on each side, which is square and generally divided into two, is the widest; the seventh has nearly the same dimensions and form; but the eighth is smaller, somewhat triangular, and in general presents two or three cavities, and sometimes only one ; its inner wall forms a remarkable prominence above the oblique line, and is much thinner than the outer. All these cavities are perforated, at their summit, by small apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves which are distributed to the teeth. The alveoli, and the partitions which separate them, form prominences and depressions of various sizes on both sides of the dentary arch, which are always most distinct in the middle and anteriorly, than on the sides and posteriorly, where they are some- times not seen at all. These i)arts are covered by the gums. -0% The alveolar arch is surmounted posteriorly by the coro- 4