45 THIS ISTHMOID BONE. ethmoid cells, articulated above with the sphenoid bone, below with the palate bone, and between the two, with the sphenoidal turbin- ated bone. 138. Nnso-Mnxillarij or Anterior aspect. This is of very small extent, and presents, in the middle, the anterior margin of the per- pendicular plate, and laterally to the outside of the anterior extre- mity of the ethmoid grooves, portions of cells covered by the as- cending process of the superior maxillary bone. 139. Two Orbital or Lateral aspects. These are quadrilateral, plain in the greater part of their extent, and cut obliquely at their anterior and posterior extremities. The latter presents several por- tions of cells which are completed by the sphenoidal turbinated bones and the palate bones ; the other leaves exposed the greater part of the anterior cells, which are closed by the lachrymal bone. At the middle part of each of these surfaces there is observed a square plate, {os planum, of the older writers,) which forms a large portion of the inner wall of the orbit. It is smooth and polished, and is articulated above, with the frontal bone; below, with the pa- late and superior maxillary bones ; behind, with the sphenoid, and anteriorly with the lachrymal bone. The upper edge of this bony plate often presents small notches, which concur in forming the internal orbitary holes (132.) 140. Structure. The ethmoid bone is almost entirely formed of compact tissue, presenting no appearance of cellular tissue, ex- cepting in the turbinated bones, the crista galli and the perpendi- cular plate. 141. Articiclations. It is articulated with the frontal and sphen- oid bones, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the upper maxillary bones, the palate bones, the lower turbinated bones of the nose, the vomer, the nasal and lachrymal bones by the different points which have been successively described. 142. This bone contributes at once to form the base of the cra- nium, the orbits and the nasal fossag. 143. Developynent. It presents three centres of ossification, one for its middle part, and two for the lateral regions, the latter ap- pearing at an earlier period than the first. The cells are deve- loped as age advances, the bone in young subjects being solid, and entirely cartilaginous. The turbinated bones make their ap- pearance about the age of seven years. OF THE SPHENOIDAL TUHBINATED BONES. 144. Form. The Sphenoidal Turbinated Bones (Cornua Sphenoidal in,) are two small thin bones, curved upon themselves. They have the form of a hollow pyramid, with its apex behind, and are situated at the base of the cranium, between the sphenoid and ethmoid bones ; they never remain distinct, but become incorpor- ated as age advances, in general, with the sphenoid, rarely with