800 ORGANS OF SECRETION. wards, and its summit is a little inclined to tlie left. When, in consequence of the accumulation of the urine, it is distended to such a degree as to rise above the symphysis of the pubes, this obliquity becomes still more obvious. EXTEKNAL SURFACE OF THE KLADDEU. 2946. This surface, which is unequally convex, is divided into six different regions, distinguished from each other by their rela- tive position. 2947. Superior Region. It is also named the summit of the bladder. It is seldom entirely invested by the peritoneum, that membrane being only applied upon its posterior half. It is ha- bitually in contact with the inferior convolutions of the small in- testine. From its centre there is seen rising the Urachus, a kind of fibrous cord which ascends between the peritoneum and the linea alba to the umbilicus, where it terminates by becoming confounded with the abdominal aponeurosis. It appears destined solely to fix the bladder; in man it never forms a canal excepting in cases when the urethra is wanting; but in the foetuses of quadrupeds, it esta- blishes a communication between the bladder and the Alluntois. On the sides of this region of the bladder, are also seen the two umbilical arteries (2576). 2948. Inferior Region. It is limited anteriorly, but only in the male, by the base of the prostate gland, and posteriorly by a fold which the peritoneum forms in passing over the rectum or uterus. Laterally it has no determined limits. This region, which is of greater extent than the superior, has very important relations, which differ in the sexes. Its most retired part is called the Fu?i- dus or Bottom of the Bladder. In the male, it is connected, by a cellular tissue loose behind and dense before, to the vesiculae seminales and the end of the vasa deferentia. Between the two vesiculae, it rests upon the rectum, from which it is separated by a layer of adipose cellular tissue con- taining an immense quantity of vessels and especially veins. Ex- ternally of the vesiculae, it is in remote contact with the levator ani. In the female, it corresponds solely to the levator ani and the vagina. 2949. Anterior Regimi. It is not covered by the peritoneum. It is of great extent, and corresponds to the posterior surface of the body of the pubes through the intervention of a great thick- ness of adipose tissue. When the organ is distended by urine, it rests in its upper portion, against the anterior wall of the abdomen. From the lower part of this region, there is seen to arise a small fibrous membrane, which directs itself horizontally behind the symphysis of the pubes, into which it is inserted, and which is 3