OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN GICNERAL. after a careful injection, it is observed, on dividing tlie bone longi- : tudinally, that all the arteries lose themselves in its spongy tissue. The free surface of the cartilage is covered by the synovial r membrane of the articulation, which gives it a smooth and polished . appearance, and which adheres so closely to it, that it might be ■ supposed to be perfectly bare. The circumference of these cartilages terminates on the bony - surface, by gradually becoming thinner. With regard to their : thickness, it is much greater at the centre than at the circumference . of those cartilages which cover the heads of bones, while an oppo- > site arrangement is observed in those which cover the correspond- ing cavities. The thickness is uniform in the cartilages of the different articulations by planiform arthrodia, as in the carpus and t tarsus. 560. In the synarthrodia! articulations, there is a cartilaginous layer of great tenuity, continuous with the two bones forming the . articulation, which becomes thinner and more adherent as age ad- \ vances, and is even very freq\iently ossified in old age. In the - sutures of the skull, these cartilaginous laminae are thinner at the inner, than at the outer side of the wall. 561. The articular cartilages, when deprived of their synovial membrane by continued maceration, are foirad to be composed of fibres, arranged like the pile of velvet, and attached perpendicu- larly to the surface of the bone. These fibres are so closely com- pacted, that at first sight they seem to constitute a homogeneous whole. The elasticity of this tissue is very great, especially in : adult age, and is well retained in the state of death. 562. These organs remain untouched after a pretty long mace- - ratiori, and resist putrefaction in a high degree. The action of a ■ strong heat makes the cartilages curl, as it does almost all the . other animal tissues. By desiccation in the open air, they become ^ hard, horny, semi-transparent, and lose their elasticity as well as the greater part of their volume. 563. The cartilages do not receive vessels which carry red blood. No lymphatics have been detected in them, nor have nerves as yet been traced into their substance. 564. Ligaments. The ligaments, which are met with in almost all the moveabk articulations, are very dense fibrous bundles, re- . gular or irregular, round or flat, of a glistening white colour, vary- ing much in form and size, sometimes even membranous, but al- ways mterlaced with the periosteum at their two extremities, which peculiarly distinguishes them from the tendons.* Their use is to connect the bones and cartilages together.f «n!iv'^'^*^"''''''J^ *° ^'"^ 'Infinition, it will bo seen that many anatomists have crrono- , m Itf"'"" f to parts which totally difler from them in form, 7Zl.T:i composuion. This appellation should not therefore be applied to the tone, m whin"""? I"""''";"'" ^^ ''■'^1^ ''^^^^ '"-■■"'"tli the tongne, the folds of tlie peri, lonciim winch sustani the liver, &c. t I'lexibilituto et ehisticitatc ligaraciitum discernitur ab osse, habitu librato a