98 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. before, and a larger, middle and posterior, which is the termination of the canal itself; the two smaller orifices give passage to the naso-palatine nerves, while the canal which contains a nervous ganglion of a peculiar structure, bifurcates as it ascends in such a manner as to open into each of the two nasal fossae separately. On each side of the inferior orifice of the palatine canal, there are also seen the foramina incisiva, which are formed in the poste- rior lip of the anterior part of the alveolar margin, and are much more distinct in young subjects than in adults. A probe intro- duced at the aperttire, penetrates into the alveoli of the incisors. 334. The longitudinal suture, which we have just described, is intersected posteriorly at right angles by another transverse su- ture, which is formed by the junction of the palate and maxiUary bones. It is limited on each side by a very uneven and slightly concave surface, which presents posteriorly the small ridge, to which the circumflexus palati muscle is attached, and the orifice of the posterior palatine canal^ which ascends between these two bones, and gives rise, in its course, to two or three small accessory palati7ie canals, which open upon the tuberosity of the palate bone. It transmits the vessels and nerves which bear its name. 335. The vertical portion of this palatine region presents the posterior surface of the two alveolar and dentar arches, separated by the aperture of the mouth ; the posterior part of the symphysis of the chin ; the genial processes ; the two internal obhque lines ; the fossfE, in which are contained the subhngual and submaxillary glands ; the insertions of various muscles already mentioned, and the base of the jaw. 336. Lateral or Zygomatic Regions. Each of these regions is composed of two distinct parts, between which is observed the empty space, which we have already pointed out in describing the guttural region. One of these portions, which is external, is form- ed by the ramus of the lower jaw, which must be removed to see the other portion, which is internal, and limited anteriorly by the ridge, which separates the canine fossa from the maxillary tubero- sity. This tuberosity, on which are observed the orifices of the posterior dentar canals, seems to form the greater part of this re- gion ; inferiorly, it is articulated to the palate bone by means of a small vertical suture, behind which there occurs an excessively narrow triangular surface, belonging to the palate bone, and arti- culating posteriorly to the pterygoid process. At its upper part, above the tuberosity, is a portion of the upper maxillary bone, which contributes to tlie formation of the Pterygo-mawillary Fis- sure ; and behind it, there is observed a vertical suture, formed by the meeting of that bone and the palate bone. It is in this suture that the upper orifice of the posterior palatine canal is formed. All this region is surmounted by a large obUque surface, which forms part of the orbit. 337. Among the canals formed upon the maxillary tuberosity imder the name of posterior dentar, there is one which penetrates