MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOIl EXTREMITIES. 377 I bursa, proceeds from behind forwards, and from witliout inwards , over the back of the foot, becomes broader, and arrives at the inner I side of the internal cuneiform bone, where it divides into two por- tions : the posterior of which is larger, slides over the bone by means of a small synovial membrane, and is inserted at its base ; while the other, which is anterior and smaller, is attached to the inner and lower part of the posterior extremity of the first meta- tarsal bone. 1396. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the tibial aponeurosis to which ,it adheres above, by the annular liga- ment of the tarsus, and by the dorsal aponeurosis of the foot; the inner is applied upon the outer surface of the tibia; the outer corresponds to the extensor communis digitorum above, and the extensor proprius pollicis below, from which it is separated poste- riorly by the anterior tibial nerve and vessels. Its posterior edge covers the interosseous ligament, the tibia, the tibio-tarsal articula- tion, and the upper and inner part of the tarsus. 1397- The tibialis anticus bends the foot upon the leg, and directs its point inwards at the same time that it raises its inner edge. It also bends the leg upon the foot, and prevents it from -falling backwards in the standing posture. OF THE EXTENSOR PROPKIUS POLLICIS PEDIS. 1398. This muscle is fleshy, broad, thick, and transversely flat- tened above, slender and tendinous below, and is situated to the outside of the preceding. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the fore part of the inner surface of the fibula, over an extent of five or six inches proceeding from the lower part of its upper third, and from the neighbouring region of the interosseous ligament (730). From thence, the fleshy fibres descend forwards parallel to each other, forming a bundle which is broader in the middle than at its extremities; they are all about two inches in length, and termi- nate successively upon a tendon which separates from them toward the ankle, passes into a particular groove beneath the annular liga- ment of the tarsus, runs along the inner edge of the foot, slides over the first phalanx of the great toe, with which it is connected by two fibrous expansions, and is at length inserted into the last phalanx, over which it is expanded. This tendon, which is broader near its insertion and upon the tarsus than in the rest of its course, IS surrounded by a synovial capsule whilst passing under the annu- lar ligament. 1399. The inner surface of this muscle corresponds to the tibialis anticus, and to the anterior tibial nerve and vessels. Tlie outer surface is applied against the extensor communis digitorum. Its anterior edge is concealed above between the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum, and covered below by the tibial apon- eurosis and the skin. The posterior edge lies upon the fibula, the