297 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. and at the upper part, forms, above, the anterior edge of the hol- low of tlie axilla. 1077. The pectoralis major has two very different modes of ac- tion. It moves the arm, or contributes to respiration by acting upon the ribs. When the arm is hanging by the side of the body, it carries it inwards and forwards ; -when it is raised, it lowers it; when in rotation outwards, it turns it inwards. Its clavicular bun- dle entering into action by itself, shghtly raises the humerus. The opposite effect is produced by its lower fibres, which also depress the tip of the shovdder. On the other hand it acts upon the thorax, when the humerus is fixed. It then draws the ribs and sternum upwards, which ren- ders it a muscle of inspiration. It can even raise the trunk upon the hmbs, as in the action of seizing the branches when one is chmbing a tree, &c. 1078. Before commencing the dissection of this muscle, a block is to be put under the shoulders of the subject, and the arm drawn out from the side of the trunk. An incision is now to be made through the skin, in the middle line from the upper part of the sternum to the ensiform cartilage, and another from the middle of this one obliquely outwards to the upper and fore part of the arm ; two flaps are thus formed, which must be dissected, the upper one from below upwards, and the low- er from above downwards, always following the direction of the fibres. The cellular and adipose tissues, and the mammary gland in the female, are to be removed along with the skin. OF THE PECTORALIS MINOK. 1079. The Pectoralis minor is situated at the upper and fore part of the thorax, behind the preceding muscle ; it is thin, flat, triangular, and much smaller than it. It is attached by its base, which is directed inwards, to the upper edge and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, by three or four thin and rather broad aponeurotic laminae, continuous with the fibrous plane that covers the external intercostal muscles ; the lowest of these digitations is also the largest. On leaving these aponeuroses, the fleshy fibres ascend convergingly upwards and outwards, so that the muscle becomes gradually narrower at the same time that it increases in thickness. Towards the axilla, they give rise to a tendon, much sooner apparent anteriorly and below than posteriorly and above, which is attached to the anterior part 0 the mner edge of the coracoid process as far as its summit, mV*^ unites with the coraco-brachiahs and biceps. Iv 110. The anterior surface of the pectoralis minor is covered by the pectoralis major. There is a layer of adipose cellular tissue etwecn them, in which some of the thoracic vessels and nerves are