PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 14 35. The bones also present various kinds of cavities on their surface, which are usually characterized as follows :— (U S o u '3 c ■*-» Articular, are called Of reception, these are. Of insertion, these are. articu- /ar, are called, Of impression, which are call- • ed, I Cotyloid, when they are hemispherical. Glenoid, when broad and shallow. TrochlecE, when they are grooved like pulleys. Facet, when nearly plain, [^Alveoli, when they are conical. C Fossa;, when the entrance is wider than the < bottom. ([ Sinuses, when it is narrower. C Impressions, when they are wide, irregular, and ^ shallow. ( Fissures, when extended in length. Grooves for the passage of tendons. Of transmis- sion, named. Grooves, gutters, or channels, when they corres- pond to arteries or veins. Notches, when superficial, and formed in the edges of bones. Foramina or holes, when they pass through and through a thin bone. Canals or aqueducts, when their passage is of great extent, or when formed by the super- position of several holes. Clefts or scissures, if they are longitudinal and very narrow. nf /V ( medulla of the long bones, ut nutrition; \ ^j^^ spongy tissue of the short bones, and of they transmit^ the extremities of the long bones, vessels lor / m, . . - ° \^ 1 he compact tissue. 36. The cavities which transmit the vessels to the medulla are very distinct, and are always met with on the body of the long bones, where they pass obliquely between the fibres of the compact tissue. Those which belong to the cellular tissue are always asso- ciated in great numbers, in which respect they differ from the preceding, which are always single, at least in man. They are equally distinct; but those observed in the compact tissue are mere pores, rendered visible principally by the blood which issues from them in the fresh state of the bones. 37- Like the processes or eminences of which we have spoken above, the cavities in questioia are sometimes formed by a single bone, which is the more ordinary case, sometimes by the concur- rence of several pieces ; but they are never, as is too commonly imagined, the result of pressure. 38. The bones in their fresh state are surrounded, except at the surfaces by which they are articulated to each other, by a dense fibrous membrane, which is strong, particularly in old subjects. It is shaggy on its outer surface, is very vascular, but feebly attached to the bone in early life, and affords a point of attachment to all the fibrous organs of the system, except the tunica albuginea, the sclerotica, the pericardium, and the fibrous capsules of the liver, spleen, and ot|;i|fr viscera. Various names are applied to this mem- brane, according to the parts where it is observed. On the skull,