OF THE DURA MATER. 431 olong mass, entirely white, sending from its circumference a la- lina into the centre of each of the lobules. These laminae are lufh less distinct above than below, and especially than behind, "ach of them is divided into several branches for each of the prin- ipal laminaj of the cerebellum, and these branches divide into ra- I Liscules for the secondary laminae. To this assemblage the name i Arbor Vitce has been given ; it is enveloped on aU sides by the incritious substance. Moreover, the valvula Vieussenii and the two prolongations of tubercula quadrigemina send out from their upper part various lite laminae, which are distributed in the central part of the cere- i^ llum, much in the same manner as the laminae of the arbor vitae re in each of the liemispheres. These ramifications are distribut- ■d into the laminae of the vermiform process. 1555. The arteries of the cerebrum and cerebellum come fi'om bhe internal carotid and vertebral arteries, fi'om the latter of which larises the basilar artery, whose branches form with those of the ca- rotid what anatomists have named the Arterial Circle of Willis. The spinal marrow receives its arteries from the vertebral, dor- sal, lumbar, and sacral arteries. The encephalic veins have very thin coats, and enter the sinuses (formed in the substance of the dura mater, which empty their con- sents into the internal jugular veins. The sinuses of the spinal marrow terminate in the vertebral, idorsal, lumbar, and sacral veins. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in the tissue »bf the brain. ' OF THE MEMBRANEOTTS ENVELOPES OF THE BRAIN. I OF THE DURA MATER. ' 1556. The Dura Mater, {Meninai exterior), is the outermost r membraneous envelope of the encephalon; it is destined partly to support it, partly to isolate its different portions. It is common to that organ and the bones of the cavity which contain it, to which it ' seems to perform the office of an internal periosteum to a certain ' degree. It is a firm, thick, compact fiibrous membrane, of a whitish ^ pearly colour, semitransparent, and occupying the interior of the '' cranium and vertebral canal. ' 1557. Its outer surface, in the cranium, is applied on aU sides ' ^pon the bones, which gives it an uneven and cellular appearance, I rrom the great number of filaments and blood-vessels by which it I communicates with them. 1558. It adheres but loosely to the broad and rather smooth oones of the vault of the cranium, and is easily detached from the ^ irontal, parietal, and occipital bones, as well from the squamous I portion of tlic temporal. At the sutures, however, its union is