,780 ORGANS OF SECRETION. OF THE NASAL DUCT. (Ductus nasalis.) 2869. We have already described the osseous part of this canal. (361). It is sufficient for us here to say that the bony canal is lined by a cylindrical prolongation of the mucous membrane of -the lachrymal sac, which is rather thin, and has no valve in its course. This prolongation adheres feebly to the periosteum, and opens, by a very contracted orifice, under the inferior turbinated bone. This orifice, although free, is furnished with a circular fold formed by the pituitary membrane. 2870. The nasal canal transmits into the nose the tears, which the puncta lachrymalia have absorbed at the inner angle of the eye. OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS AND THEIR DUCTS, Or of the Organs of the Secretion and Excretioij, of the Saliva. GENERAL ODSEUVATIONS- 2871. The Salivary Glands are symmetrically placed, to the number of three on each side of the face, behind and beneath the lower jaw. Their form is in general very irregular, and their ex- tent varies much in different subjects. Sometimes they are per- fectly distinct and isolated; at other times, they seem to be con- founded with each other. But they all present characters which are common to them, and which serve to distinguish them from the other glands of the body : Thus, their vessels penetrate them on all sides, and are already much ramified before arriving in their parenchyma; while the liver, the spleen, and the kidneys receive theirs by a determinate point, and under the form of more or less voluminous trunks. They are supplied with a considerable number of nervous fil^ inents from the encephalic system; while the liver has but a very small number, and the kidneys none at all. Their colour is grayish, their tissue firm and strong; the gra- nulations of which they consist, are successively united into lobules and irregular lobes, which gives them the greatest resemblance to the pancreas and lachrymal gland. They are enveloped by no particular membrane, as is the case with the Hver, the kidneys, &c. They merely seem surrounded by a thin layer of cellular tissue, destitute pf fat, and very different from the fibrous membranes. Lastly, their excretory ducts all open in the interior of the mouth, without any intermediate reservoir, while the tears, the bile, the urine, the seminal fluid, &c. are contained for some time in a reser- voir before arriving at their destination.