VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 25 tilon<^ the neck, concave at the back, and again convex at the loins. Posreriorly, the opposite curvatures are observed. This arrange- ment obviously depends upon the various degrees of thickness which the bodies of the vertebra) present before and behind in each of the regions of the spine, and also on that of the interverte- bral cartilages. These three curvatures, moreover, are so disposed that a verti- cal hne passing through the centre of the summit and base of the vertebral column, would pass before the bodies of the dorsal ver- tebrfe, and behind those of the cervical and lumbar. There is commonly a lateral curvature observed in the dorsal reo-ion, the convexity of which is most frequently towards the right. It*has'been attributed to the presence of the aorta; but Bichat imao-ined it with more probability to arise from the circumstance, that^most exertions are performed with the right hand. Beclard confirmed this opinion by observing, that, in left-handed persons, the convexity of the lateral curvature of the spine is on the left side, and consequently in the opposite direction to what it is in most other individuals.* In the sound state, the vertebral column inclines to neither side, so that by a vertical section it might be divided into two equal la- teral portions. 67. General form. Considered as a whole, the vertebral co- lumn presents an anterior surface, a posterior, two lateral, a base and a summit. 68. The anterior surface, in the neck, is broad. It contracts in the dorsal region, and is again enlarged in the lumbar. Viewed in its longitudinal direction it is convex in the neck and loins, and concave in the back. A series of transverse hollows, more or less deep in the different regions, formed by the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, limited above and below by projecting mar- gins, and extending toward the lateral parts in the back and loins, occupies the whole length of this surface, which is covered by the anterior vertebral ligament from above downwards, and corresponds in the neck to the recti capitis antici majores and the longi colli muscles ; in the back to the last mentioned muscles at first, then to the vena azygos on the right side, and the thoracic aorta on the left; and in the lumbar region to the crura of the diaphragm, the abdominal aorta, the vena cava inferior, and the nervous ganglia of the loins. 69. The posterior surface presents in the median line the row of spinous processes, which are horizontal above, inclined and im- bricated in the middle part, and again horizontal in the loins. Their extremities are generally placed in the same line; not unfrcquent- ly, however, one is inclined to the left and another to the right. The intervals by which they are separated are larger in the neck, • See " Observations on the lateral curvature of the Human Spine, bv Dr. Knox." " •' 4