OF THE PI A MATER. '^^9 The cavernous sinuses receive a gi'cat number of meningeal veins, the ophthahnic veins, whose roots originate m the interior of the ! ve and orbit, several emissary veins which traverse the sphenoid iione and the two coronary sinuses. B neath the pituitary body the two cavernous sinuses have a very cUstinct communication, {Sinus transversahsSellce eqmnce, Haller.) 1580. Superior Petrous Sinuses, (Sinus petrosz superiores). 1 hey seem to arise from the termination of the preceding sinuses, towards the summit of the petrous process, whose upper edge they follow, lodcred in a pretty distinct groove, and in a part oi the great cir- cumference of the tentorium cerebelli. They pass above the nerve of the fifth pair, where they leave for a moment the groove ot the (temporal bone. They are less broad but longer than the inferior ; ithey open into the lateral sinuses, towards the point where the lat- iter experience a curvature. They are triangular m theu: interior, aand present but very few transverse bridles. . ^ „ . . ™, \5Si. Inferior Petrous Sinuses, (Sinus Petrosilnferiores). They f arise from the cavernous sinuses at the same point as the pi-ececl- i ino- with which they communicate at their commencement, descend Ibehind and to the outside between the inferior edge of the petrous £and basilar processes, and terminate in the lateral sinuses opposite tthe sinus of the internal jugular vein. They are broader at their {extremities than at their middle part, and present the same struc- tture as the superior petrous sinuses. Their inner wall, that which i» immediately applied upon the bones, appears to be formed only cof the internal membrane of the veins, no lamina of the dura ma- t ter being perceived upon it. The two petrous sinuses receive veins of no great importance, J all of which come from the dura mater. Some of them traverse 1 the bones and communicate with the outside of the skull. 1582. Transverse Sinus (Sinus Occipitalis Anterior). Flacecl t transversely at the upper part of the basilar process, it forms a c communication between the union of the two petrous sinuses and c cavernous sinus of the one side with that of the other. It varies in breadth, but is always of large size, and is lodged between two laminse of the dura mater, in a superficial depression of the bone. 1 In its interior, it presents a very distinct cavernous tissue. It re- c (ieives several veins from the labyrinth. It is by no means rare to see two or three other transverse si- r nuses placed between the latter and the occipital hole. OF THE riA mateh. 1583. The Pia Mater, (Meninx Interior,) covers the brain on all sides, is prolonged into its internal cavities, and dips down into the anfractuositics and depressions which are observed at its sur- face. It is not prolonged over the spinal marrow. We also ob- serve that, properly speaking, it is not a true membrane analogous