OF THE SCIATIC NEUVE. 513 1835. Pudic Nerve. (Nennis pudendalis superior). Arising principally from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and sometimes from the Hfth, it sends a commencing twig to the preceding (1834),. 1 issues from the pelvis along with it under the pyriformis muscle, i enters between the two sacro-sciatie ligaments along with the inter- ! nal pudic artery, and separates into two twigs, a superior and in- 1 ferior. 1836. Inferior Twig in the Male. At first parallel to the j superior for some time, and ascending along the inner part of the, ! sciatic tuberosity, it sends some filaments to the levator and sphinc- : tor ani muscles, and to the neighbouring adipose tissue and inte- . gumeuts. It then proceeds from behind forwards and from belov/ I upwards, along the perineum, between the bulbo-cavernosus and i ischio-cavernosus muscles, and gains the scrotum, where it loses it- s self chiefly in the dartos by a great number of filaments. But pre- \viousIy, it gives off filaments to the transversus perinaei, bulbo-ca-- \ vernosus and ischio-cavernosus muscles, as well as to the integu- I ments. Some of these filaments, traversing the walls of the ure- i thra, expand upon the inner surface of that canal. I ]837. Superior Twig in the Male.—It ascends along the ra- I mus of the ischium and that of the pubes, and gains the symjihysis J pubis. It then glides between it and the corresponding root of the c corpus cavernosum, arrives at the upper surface of the penis, runs .1 along it as far as the corona glandis, and terminates in that part ,1 as well as in the prepuce by a great number of ramifications. But L in this course, it furnishes filaments to the obturator internus and I bulbo-cavernosus muscles, the mucous membrane of the virethra, . the skin of the back of the penis, and the cellular tissue of the u groove :of the corpus cavernosum. 1838. Of the Pudic Nerve in the Female.—The inferior twig, »which is proportionally much laj-ger than in the male, gives off se- vveral divisions along the perineum, penetrates into the labium ex- i ternum of its side, distributes some filaments to it as well as jthe constrictor vaginae and ischio-cavernosus muscles, and, directing it- self oyer the sides of the clitoris, arrives at the mons veneris, where It IS lost. The upper twig, which is very slender, ascends along , the ramus of the pubes, before the obturator internus muscle, gives . of][ filaments to the latter, and gains the back and summit of the jV clitoris, where it ramifies. 01' THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. 1839. The Sciatic Nerve (Nervus i-schiadicus), is the thickest and longest of all the nerves of the body, and terminates the plex- I us of the same name, all the roots of which contribute to form it. ^ It descends at first before the pyriformis muscle^ gives it some fila- ments, issues from the pelvis between it and the gemellus superior : by the sciatic notch, and enters between the yrcat trochanter and between the great trochanter and 2 L