124 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. and superficial grooves, occupied by fasciculi of the sub-scapularis muscle, which is inserted into the inner two-thirds of their extent, and attaches its aponeuroses to the ridges mentioned. Behind the sub-scapular fossa, are observed, above and below, two plain sur- faces to which the serratus magnus is attached. 428. Upper Edcje or Costa. This edge is thinner and shorter than any of the others. Posteriorly, it gives attachment to the supra-spinatus muscle ,• anteriorly, to the sub-scapularis ; in the in- terval, to the omo-hyoidcus ; externally, it presents a notch, con- verted into a hole by a ligament, which gives passage to the supra- scapular nerve, and sometimes to the vessels of the same name. Lastly, it is terminated, anteriorly to this notch, by a narrow elon- gated projection, curved upon itself, having always more breadth than thickness, at first passing from below upwards, and presently directing itself from behind forwards, and from above downwards : this is the Coracoid* Process, (processus coracoideus). The up- per surface of this process is convex and uneven, and gives attach- ment to the coraco-clavicular ligaments; the lower surface is smooth and concave; the pectoralis minor is inserted into its ante- rior edge ; the acromio-coracoid ligament into the posterior; whUe the short head of the biceps and coraco-brachialis are attached to its summit. 429. Posterior or Vertebral Edge. This edge, which is also named the Base, (basis scapulceJ, approaches the vertebral co- lumn above, from which it retires at the lower part. At the dis- tance of a fourth of its length from the upper part, there is observ- ed a very blunt angle, which corresponds to the commencement of the spine of the scapula; this edge gives attachment posteriorly to the supra-spin^tus and infra-spinatus, anteriorly to the serratus magnus, and in the middle to the rhomboideus. At its union with the upper edge, it forms a projecting angle, which is embraced by the levator anguli scapulae, and which is named the Posterior or Cervical Angle. 430. Outer or Aaiillary\- Edge, named also the Inferior Costa. It inclines downwards and forwards, and is much thicker than the others. At its upper part, it is marked with a sort of groove into which the long portion of the triceps extensor cubiti is inserted. Posteriorly, it presents rugosities into which is inserted the teres minor. Anteriorly, where it is rounded, it furnishes points of in- sertion to the sub-scapularis. At its lower part, it receives the teres major; and by uniting with the posterior edge, forms an an- gle named the Inferior or Costal, which is thick and rounded; this angle is embraced as it were by the teres major and is over- lapped by the upper margin of the latissimus dorsi, to some fibres of which it occasionally affords insertion. 431. The axillary edge of the scapula is surmounted by a tliick • Kipr/^, rorvtis ; Vl'Sof^fgum ; that is to say of the shape of a crow's beak. t AxiUarij, belonging to the A.vilhi, or arm-pit.