772 ORGANS OF ABSORPTION. tomose with those of the epigastric lymphatics. They enter the thorax between the xiphoid appendage and the diaphragm, ascend be- hind the sides of the sternum, traverse several ganglia, form some plexuses, and unite into trunks which become larger and larger. One of these trunks only directs itself to the left side, crosses an- teriorly the subclavian vein, throws itself into the inferior jugular ganglia, and terminates in the thoracic duct. The rest open se- parately on the right side into the subclavian and internal jugular veins. 2837- Lymphatics of the Diaphragm. Confounded in a great measure with the intercostal and hepatic lymphatics, they give rise to several principal trunks which proceed forwards, above the pleurae, upon the convex surface of the diaphragm, unite and di- vide several times in succession, pass through the inferior gangUa of the mediastinum, and at length join the preceding behind the sternum. 2838. Lymphatics of the Thymus and Pericardium. The former are much more numerous and larger in the child than in the adult. Both are confounded with the Substernal and pulmon- ary lymphatics. 2839. Lymphatics of the Heart. They have their roots distri- buted over the whole surface of the heart, and especially towards its summit. They follow pretty accurately the course of the co- ronary vessels, and ultimately unite into two principal trunks. One of these trunks accompanies the right coronary artery, ascends upon the anterior side of the aorta, inclines to the left, and ter- minates in the upper part of the thoracic duct. The other, which is larger, and frequently formed by the alternate anastomoses and divisions of three or four large branches, glides obliquely between the aorta and pulmonary artery, traverses some small gangha, and gains the thoracic duct or the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Near its termination, it frequently divides into three or, four distinct branches. Some lymphatic vessels of the heart unite separately with those- of the lungs. 2840. Lymphatics of the (Esophagus. They form a kind of plexus around that canal, anastomose with those of the heart and lungs, and enter the predorsal ganglia. SUPERFICIAL LYMPHATICS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 2841. Their first roots surround the fingers, at the posterior surface of which they are especially very numerous. Collected. - into bundles on the sides of each of them, they gain the meta- 1 carpus, on which they remain isolated, or anastomose to give rise to some trunks, which direct themselves particularly over the posterior surface of the fore-arm, along which they are enlarged by the addition of a great number of twigs coming from that part