MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. ^93 Mmh it is connected with the tarsus ; its tendon is inserted upon bHc inner side of the fourth toe. 1464. The third internal interosseous muscle (adductor quinti Mgiti), arises a little from the fibrous sheath of the peroneus lon- ims, and from the two inferior thirds of the inner surface of the idfth metatarsal bone, and terminates on the inner surface of the iiifth toe, by a tendon which the fleshy fibres accompany as far as ]the articulation. OF THE EXTEIINAL Oil DORSAL INTEROSSEI. -1465. Thejirst external interosseous muscle (adductor diglti eecundi), is the largest of the interossei of the foot; its form is that bf a triangular prism. It arises from the whole extremity of the nrmer side of the second metatarsal bone, and from the outer side of :he posterior extremity of the first. The latter portion is separated ifrom the first by an interval in which the anterior tibial artery ipasses. Its fleshy fibres are attached to the two sides of a tendon L-concealed in their substance, and which they accompany to the ex- ttremity of the metatarsus; this tendon is partly inserted into the irinner side of the base of the first phalanx of the second toe, and jpartly upon the corresponding extensor tendon. Its upper sur- fiface is covered by the skin. The inferior corresponds to the nadductor pollicis; and its sides are applied upon the first two me- t tatarsal bones. 1466. The second external interosseous muscle, (abductor digiti .^ sectmdi,) arises from the whole outer side of the second metatar- >.sal bone, and from the upper part of the inner side of the third ; it ii:is terminated by a tendon, which has the same insertions on the ■'outer side of the second toe, as the adductor on the inner. Its I upper surface is covered by the skin, by a thin aponeurosis which goes from the second to the third metatarsal bone, and by the ex- tensor tendons of the toes. The lower surface corresponds to the adductor pollicis. 1467. The third external interosseous muscle, (abductor digiti tertii,) arises from the whole outer side of the third metatarsal bone, from the upper part of the inner side of the fourth, and from " the ligaments by which they are united, and terminates by a ten- : don precisely similar to those of the other interossei. Its upper • surface is covered by an aponeurosis which goes from the third to ; the fourth metatarsal bone. The lotver covers the transveisus pedis and the tendons of the flexor muscles. 1468. The fourth external interosseous muscle, {abductor digiti qiiarh,) arises above from the inner edge of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the whole outer surface of the fourth, and termi- nates on the outer side of the fourth toe. 1469. The motions which the interossei of the foot impress up-