ORGANIZATION OF THE OESOPHAGUS. G03 vein. Its nerves come from the glosso-pharyngcal and pneumo- o-astric nerves, and from the superior and middle cervical ganglia, the interlaced filaments of which constitute the Pharyngeal Fleams (1704.) O/' the CEsophagus. * GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2136. The (Esophagus or Gullet (Gtila) is a rausculo-mem- braneous canal, which extends from the lower part of the pharynx to the superior orifice of the stomach. It commences, therefore, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and terminates between the crura of the diaphragm. Its general direction is vertical; but presents some partial inflections. At its commencement, immedi- ately under the pharynx, it is placed in the median line, which it leaves under the larynx to deviate to the left, so that, at the lower part of the neck, it is placed behind the corresponding side of the trachea. On entering the thorax, it approaches its original direc- tion as far as the origin of the bronchi, where it regains it entirely, and continues in it until it leaves that cavity. It then directs it- self again to the left, passing into the abdomen, where it terminates after a very short course. 2137- This canal is cylindrical and slightly compressed from be- fore backwards whilst empty. It is connected with the neighbour- ing parts by an extensile cellular tissue, which is very loose, and contains some lymphatic ganglia. 2138. In its cervical portion, the cesophagus corresponds, an- teriorly, and from above downwards, to the larynx, the left lobe of the thyroid body, the left half of the trachea, the left inferior thy- roid vessels, whose direction it crosses, and the sterno-thyroideus inuscles; posteriorly, to the anterior common vertebral ligament and the longus colli muscle of the left side ; laterally, at first to the common carotid arteries and internal jugular veins, and after- ■wards on the right side to the trachea, and on the left to the recxir- rent nerve and carotid artery of that side. 2139. In its thoracic portion, the oesophagus, which is here en- tirely contained in the posterior mediastinum, corresponds ante- riorly, in part to the trachea, then entirely to the left bronchus, ■whose direction it crosses, and lastly, to the base of the heart and the posterior part of the pericardium ; posteriorly, to the vertebral column, the curve of the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, and at its lowest part to the aorta; while laterally, it lies near the lungs, having the aorta to the left. 2140. This canal is a little wider at its origin than in the rest • 0(«, fero; fuya, comedo.