OF THE FEMORAL AIITERY. ^^'^ 2GI7. The Other internal branches of the femoral artery are a little larger than the preceding; but vary much us to number, origin, and disposition. They arc distributed to tlic gracilis and adductor longus muscles, and to the integuments. External Branches of the Femoral Artery. 2618. Of the Superjicial Clrcumjlecc Iliac Artery. It comes off from the femoral, nearly at the same place as the deep femo- ral from wliich it sometimes arises, and directs itself transversely outwards, between the sartorius and rectus femoris. After a short course it divides into ascending twigs, which pass outwards be- tween the iliacus, sartorius and tensor vaginae femoris, and are dis- tributed to these muscles, and to the glutseus medius; and into descending branches which are distributed to the sartorius and rectus muscles. One of them may be traced as far as the lower part of the latter muscle. 2619. The other external branches of the femoral artery are few and of small size. They lose themselves vipwards in the psoas an.d iliacus muscles, and downwards in the vasti and cruraeus. Anterior Branches of the Femoral Artery. 2620. Of the Superjicial Epigastric Artery (Art. epigastrica siiperfieialis) It is never absent, and is very slender and of great length. It arises from the artery immediately beneath the crural arch, and ascends obliquely outwards, between the abdominal aponeurosis and the integuments, as far as the umbilicus. It gives twigs to the lymphatic ganglia and cellular tissue of the groin, and to the skin and muscles of the abdomen. It anastomoses "with that of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and internal mammary arteries. 2621. The other anterior branches of the femoral artery are very slender, and are distributed to the cellular tissue, the integuments, or the sartorius. Posterior Branches of the Femoral Artery. OF THE ARTERIA PROFUNDA FEMORIS. 2622. It arises from the back part of the femoral artery, an inch and a half or two inches below the crural arch, opposite the middle of the space comprised between the pubes and the small trochanter, and is of large size, nearly equalling the femoral artery itself It descends obliquely backwards as far as the origin of the cruraeus