ORGANS OF SENSATION. 440 to the organs known under that name. It is a cellular, loose, transparent web, without consistence, in which there ramify and cross each other in a thousand different directions a multitude of blood vessels, more or less delicate, and more or less tortuous, and is only attached to the surface of the brain by the ramus- cules of these vessels which penetrate into the substance of the lat- ter organ. 1584. External Pia Mater. Above, the pia mater, covers on each side, the convex surface of the two hemispheres of the brain, sinks into their anfractuosities, is reflected in the great longitudinal fissure, prolongs itself over the upper surface of the corpus callo- sum, and descends upon its anterior extremity; opposite the pos- terior extremity, it also bends downwards, but enters into the third ventricle. Inferiorly, the pia mater covers on each side the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes of the brain, sinks into the fissura Sylvii, is reflected over the commissure of the optic nerves, after covering the membrane which closes the third ventricle an- teriorly, passes over the layer of gray substance which forms its floor, envelopes the infundibulum, invests the inferior surface of the cerebral protuberance, is engaged in the groove which sepa- rates it from the spinal marrow, on which it presently ceases in an insensible manner, to be carried over the lower surface of the ce- rebellum, and from thence over the upper, as far as the posterior cerebral fissure, by which it enters into the third ventricle. It sinks between the lobes of the cerebellum, and is engaged in all the anfractuosities which separate its concentric laminae. By its outer surface the pia mater is in contact with and ad- heres to the arachnoid membrane, upon all the cerebral promin- ences, but is entirely isolated from it opposite the depressions into which it alone penetrates. They are then even frequently separated by a pretty large vacant interval, as may be easily seen in the fissura Sylvii, in the spaces which exist between the lobes of the cerebellum, between the brain and the cerebral protuber- ance, &c. Its inner surface corresponds everywhere to the cere- bral substance. 1585. Internal Pia Mater. The pia mater penetrates into the third ventricle by the transverse fissure which exists between the corpus callosum and the cerebral protuberance, and into the lateral ventricles by that which is met with on each side between the op- tic thalamus and the corpus fimbriatum. 1586. In penetrating by the transverse cerebral fissure, the pia mater forms, in the third ventricle, the Tela Choroidea, or velum interpositum, a kind of membraneous prolongation which lines the posterior part of the corpus callosum and the inferior surface of the fornix, to which it adheres by a great quantity of vascular fn^igs. Its form is that of a truncated triangle, whose base, which is very broad, is directed backwards. Its lower surface is free anteriorly in the third ventricle, and, farther back, presents the orifice of the arachnoid canal, above the pineal gland, wliich is embraced in the