OF THE S^JB-MAxiLLAlit GI/AND. 783 OF THE SUM-MAXILLAKY GLAND. 2878. This gland is smaller than the parotid, and is situated at, the inner side of the ramus and body of the inferior maxillary bone, in the triangular space which the two bellies of the digastric muscle^ leave between them. Irregularly ovoidal and flattened on three" surfaces, frequently bifurcated at its fore part, it is prolonged ex-' ternally as far as the angle of the jaw, and is sometimes confound- ed in this direction with the parotid gland. Internally, the super- ficial portion of its anterior extremity advances towards the digas- tric muscle, and the deep portion, which is engaged behind the mylo-hyoideus muscle, touches the sublingual gland. In the same direction, it is separated from its fellow by the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles and the genio-hyoidei. Anteriorly, it is co- vered by the inferior maxillary bone, and posteriorly, is in con- nexion with the lingual nerve, the stylo-glossus and hyo-glossus muscles, and the facial artery, which it embraces. Inferiorly, it rfests upon the platysma myoides and the integuments. Superiorly, it is prolonged more or less between the pterygoideus internus and mylo-hyoideus. It is moreover surrovmded by a pretty consi- derable, although variable nvimber of lymphatic ganglia. 2879. The excretory duct of the sub-maxillary gland is com- ilionly designated by the name of Wharton's Duct, {Ductus Whar- tonianus). It is much smaller than Steno's duct, and has much thinner walls, which are transparent and more elastic. Arising in the same manner by very slender radicles in the lobules of the gland, it issues from its deepest portion, passes between the mylo- hyoideus and hyo-glossus muscles, and proceeds nearly horizontally from without inwards, and a little forwards, between the genio- glossus and the sub-lingual gland, from which it often receives several excretory ducts. When it has arrived upon the side of the frfenum linguae, it places itself beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, and terminates in this place by a very narrow orifice, situated in the middle of a slightly prominent tubercle. It is ac- companied, in its whole extent, by the lingual nerve, and lined in its interior by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the itiouth : perhaps it is entirely formed by the latter. 2880. The arteries of the sub-maxillary gland are numerous, but of small size. They are furnished by the trunk of the facial and the branches of the lingual arteries. Its veins correspond exactly to the arteries. Its nerves come from the lingual nerve (166G), ; Ihe mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dentar nerve (1669), and the ! sub-maxillary ganglion (1873). The cellular envelope of the sub-maxillary gland is proportionally much thinner than that of the parotid gland. The structure of the ' two organs is precisely similar.