ORGANS OF SENSATION. 5S0 2053. Of the Cartila/je of the Nose. It occupies the middle re- gion of the organ, and is formed of three portions united at an acute angle, and distinguished by most anatomists into the Lateral Cartilages, placed anteriorly and externally, and the Cartilage of the Septum, situated posteriorly and internally. Tiie Cartilage of the Septum, which forms the largest portion, is prolonged into the nasal fossae. It is of a triangular form, and although generally situated in the median line of the body, in a vertical direction, may be inclined more or less perceptibly to either side, so that its two lateral surfaces, instead of being plain, are then convex on the one side and concave on the other. These two surfaces are invested by the pituitary membrane. They present a great number of small porosities, which make them appear as if shagreened, and which receive prolongations of that membrane. Sometimes also this cartilage is perforated by a hole which allows the nasal fossoj to communicate with each other. Its upper edge is uneven, very much inclined backwards and downwards, and articulated with the lower edge of the vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, which sometimes divides into two lami- jia3 for its reception. Tiie lower edge presents two portions, a pos- terior and an anterior. The former is longer, inclined a httlc downwards and forwards, and is received into a groove of the vo- mer. The latter, which is shorter, rounded, free, and without any attachment to the neighbouring parts, is placed between the inter- nal branches of the cartilages of the nasal apertures, to which it is only attached by a loose cellular tissue, and along with which it contributes to form th,e septum of the nose. Its anterior edge is subcutaneous, prominent and very thick above, becomes thin below, and is entirely concealed by the cartilages of the nasal apertures, between which it unites, at an obtuse angle, with the inferior edge. It is from the upper half of this anterior edge that the two la- teral portions arise, which are at first continuous with it, but which, ftu'thcr down, are separated from it by a fissure filled with cellular substance. They direct themselves obliquely over the sides of the nose, under the ossa nasi; their form is triangular; they are attached above and behind to the nasal bones, and the ascending processes of the superior maxillary bones by short li- gamentous fibres. A much less compact tissue, which some- times is only a mere membrane in which are developed some amorphous flbro-cartilaginous nuclei, unites them below to the cartilages of the nasal apertures. Externally, they are covered by the triangularis muscle, and lined internally by the pituitary- membrane. They are somewhat less capable of being ruptured, and appear more flexible than the first portion. The three portions of this cartilage seem to be sometimes sepa- rated and distinct, there being observed on the anterior edge of the septum, along the union of the lateral portions, a superficial groove wliicli terminates by a very small ridge.