MUSCLES OF THE A KM. lidle by the biceps muscle and the external cutaneous nerve; in- iternally, by the brachial artery, the median nerve and the pronator uteres. The posterior surface covers the lower part of the luinic- rrus, and its articulation with the bones of the fore-arm. Its icppcv extremity presents a notch which embraces the tendon of the del- toid muscle. (1111.) 1142. This muscle bends the fore-arm upon the arm, or the lat- tter upon the former. OF THE TRICEPS EXTENSOR. 1143. This muscle, which occupies the posterior part of the ; arm, is elongated, flat, thicker in the middle than at its extremities, i and divided at its upper part into three portions. Of these, the middle {caput longum seu anconeus lotiyus'), which is longer and I larger than the others, arises from the highest part of the outer I edge of the scapula, over an extent of about an inch, immediately under the glenoid cavity, by a flat tendon, which separates into two , aponeuroses, an outer, which is shorter, and an inner, which ex- tends much farther downwards. The fleshy fibres of this portion of the muscle, arising from the outer and back part of the tendon just mentioned, form a bundle, v>'hich, at first flat and thin, de- scends vertically between the teres major and teres minor, behind the shoulder joint, then increases in size, and is united to the outer portion about the upper third of the arm, and to the inner about its middle. The outer portion, {caput externum seu anconeus externus,) which is not so long or so thick as the middle, and is broader be- low than above, arises, by a pointed extremity, from the upper part of the outer edge of the humerus, beneath the great tuberosi- ty of that bone. Its fleshy fibres, which descend obliquely back- wards and inwards, and are so much the shorter the lower they are, come moreover from the outer edge of the humerus over a lareer extent, and from an aponeurotic partition, common to them with those of the deltoid muscle and brachialis internus. The inner portion, {caput breve seu inter7ium,) which is shorter than the outer, but of the same form, commences under the ten- don of the teres major and latissimus dorsi by a sharp and elon- gated extremity, which is attached to the inner edge of the hume- rus, and receives additions in succession from an aponeurosis which eovers it above, from the posterior surface of the humerus, and a fibrous partition which separates it from the brachialis internus. Its fleshy fibres descend backwards and outwards. 1144. After their union, these three portions of the muscle form a thick and broad bundle, concave before for embracing the hume- rus, and terminate by a very strong tendon, also broad and thick, which is attached to the posterior and upper part of the olecranon, • over a considerable extent of surface. This tendon commences by