ORGANS OF SENSATION. 559. circumference of which presents a prominent rim, which is not con- nected with the nerve, so that no continuity can be here supposed with the pia mater, as some anatomists have alleged. Anteriorly, it adheres strongly to the ciliary circle and processes. 1959. The outer surface of the choroid membrane is covered with a brownish substance, easily removed, composed of innum- erable globules which form by their union an excessively de- licate net-work or membrane, and leave the sclerotica, after death, tinged in a very distinct manner. The inner surface presents a similar layer, only more abundant and of a deeper colour. At the backmost part, near the optic nerve, this substance is substituted by a whitish circle. The dark substance in question is named the Pigmentum nigrum. By maceration, the pigment is detached from the choroid membrane which becomes transparent, loses much of its natural colour, and is covered with villosities. Perhaps the exhalation of the dark fluid is owing to these. Its colour, like that of China ink, resists the action of air and of various chemi- cal reagents, and is more intense in the vicinity of the iris than any where else.* 1960. The choroid membrane has nowhere a fibrous structure; only, near its anterior aperture, there are seen some radiated striae which commence the ciliary processes. It appears entirely com- posed of a multitude of arterial and venous vessels, united together by a very delicate cellular web. The arteries are principal- ly distributed at its external surface ; the veins at the internal. Posteriorly these vessels form two superimposed planes, which may be separated from each other; but this division does not take place anteriorly, although Ruysch appears to have discovered this structure, and although his son gave the name of Membrana Ruyschiana to the internal lamina. M. Bauer his discovered lym- phatics in the choroid membrane, which accompany the principal arteries. OF THE CILIAUY CIRCLE OR LIGAMENT. 1961. The Ciliary Circle or Ligament (Orhiculus cilia ris. Hall., Ligamentum ciliare) is a kind of grayish ring, pretty thick, particularly at its large circumference, about a line or two broad, situated between the choroid membrane, the iris, and the sclerotica, and adhering more to the first of these membranes than to the others. Its consistence is pulpy, and its tissue moistened by a whitish mucosity. It receives the last ramifications of the ciliary nerves, and sends others behind the iris, so that although its inti- mate structure is still unknown, it may to a certain degree be com- * From recent experiments of M. Michele Mondini, it would appear tliat the black colour of this substance is owing to oxide of iron, as on calcinihg the chorQid mombrane of an adult in a platina crucible, tiiorc were extracted trom it particles wfthat metal wiiicli were attracted by the magnet.