144 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION\ considerable distance. Being a double bone, it is consequently unsymmetrical, which is equally the case with all the other bones of the lower extremity. The femur rests upon the leg, and trans- mits to it the weight of the pelvis, with which it is articulated at its upper part. The following parts are observed in it. 492. The Body, which is pretty thick above, contracted in the middle, and greatly enlarged below. It is slightly twisted upon itself, and presents a very distinct curvature, of which the convexity is anterior. It is somewhat triangular in its three upper fourths, and is flattened from before backwards in the lower fourth. Its anterior surface, which is convex, broader above and below than in the middle, and slightly twisted upon itself, gives attach- ment in the three upper fourths of its length to the crureus, which covers it entirely. The outer surface is narrow, slightly concave above, convex below, and gives attachment to the vastus externus muscle. The inner surface, is broader than the preceding, nearly plain, and covered by the vastus internus, to which it gives attach- ment in its two upper thirds. 493. These surfaces are separated by three edges, of which two are lateral, rounded, rather indistinct, and give attachment to the vasti muscles. The third, which is posterior, very prominent, rough, and furnished with distinct asperities, has received the name of Linea aspera. This line, whose direction is parallel to the axis of the bone, is much more distinct at its middle part than at the extremities. It has besides a certain breadth, and presents two lips or edges (labia), separated by an interval, and retiring to a great distance from each other at the upper and lower parts of the bone, which makes it appear bifurcated at its two extremities. It gives attachment externally to the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps. Internally, it receives the insertion of the vastus internus; while its middle part receives a portion of the fibres of the three adductor muscles of the thigh. The canal for the vessels of the bone, which is directed upwards, is seen at the middle of this line. It is generally single, but occasionally there are two or three apertures. The external branch of the upper bi- furcation of the linea aspera ascends to tlie trochanter major; it is very rough, and gives attachment externally to the vastus externus. internally to the addvictor magnus, and in the middle to the ten- don of the gluteus maximus. The internal branch, which is not very distinct, passes upwards and inwards to the trochanter minor, and gives attachment to the pectincus and vastus inter- nus. The quadratus femoris and adductor magnus cover the triangular interval existing between these branches. Thebrancliet; of the lower bifurcation of the linea aspera are longer than those of the upper; they descend toward the posterior part ol the condyles, above which they terminate by very distinct impres- sions, and are more widely separated than those of the upper bi- furcation. The external branch, which is more prominent than the inner, affords insertion to the vastus externus and biceps flexor