364f ACTIVE ORGANS OF EOCOMOTION. confounded with the two preceding muscles, but first with the vas- tus internus. 1341. These three muscles, the vastus externus, the vastus internus, and cruralis, are thus united by very broad apo- neuroses. One of these commences very high upon the inner sur- face of the first: the other rises about the same level upon the outer surface of the second, and the last appears toward the middle of the anterior surface of the third. They approach each other as they descend, become intimately united, and form a tendon at first broad and thin, afterwards narrower and thicker, and at last con- founded with that of the rectus femoris (1335), with which it is inserted into the whole upper part of the patella, sending oft" late- rally two fibrous expansions which embrace that bone, and are at- tached to the tuberosities of the tibia, along with portions of the fascia lata. The fleshy fibres of the vastus internus accompany it to very near the patella. 1342. The anterior surface of the vastus externus is covered above by the tendons of the glutaaus minimus and glutaeus maxi^ mus ; farther down, by the fascia lata and its tensor muscle, and at its lowest part, by the short portion of the biceps. The anterior surface of the cruralis is in connexion with the iliacus and rectus femoris, and with the external circumflex vessels. The fascia lata, the crural artery, and the sartorius muscle are applied upon the anterior surface of the vastus internus. The posterior surface of these muscles covers the whole surface of the body of the femur, from which it is separated below by a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue, and the knee joint.* 1343. These muscles contribute powerfully to extend the leg. upon the thigh, and the latter upon the former. OP THE GllACILIS. 1344. The Gracilis, which is situated on the inside of the thigh, is a long, flat, thin miiscle, broader above than below. It arises, over a space of about two inches, by aponeuroses much longer before than behind, from the anterior surface of the body of the pubes, close to the symphysis, from the ramus of that bone* and of the ischium. From thence it descends vertically on the inside of the thigh, contracts rapidly, and when near the knee, is terminated by a slender and rounded tendon, which commences on the posterior edge of the muscle at the middle of the thigh, and is accompanied anteriorly by fleshy fibres as far as the knee. There it becomes free, passes behind the inner condyle of the femur, en- larges, descends from behind forwards over the upper and inner " A few detached muscular fibres, frciiuently found under the lower part of the cruralis, and attached to the capmk of the knee-joint, have been described by some authors as a separate muscle, under the name of Siihcrurmii! or aitic.ularis gciw. When the knee is extended, it seems to draw up the capsule of the joint from betweeu the end of the bones. Vide yoeinra. loc. cit. torn. Hi. p. 300.