303 MUSCLES OF THE SUPERIOll EXTREMITIES. tliesc cliffercnt organs. Its inner surface is applied upon all the jnuscles of the arm, and the bundle of vessels and nerves which descends along its inner and fore part. 1106. From the elbow to the hand, the fibrous sheath of which we are speaking is called the Jnti-brachial Aponeurosis, or Apon- eurosis of the Fore-arm. It is evidently continuous with the pre- ceding portion, and receives moreover anteriorly a lamina detached from the tendon of the biceps (114-7), laterally bundles of fibres arising from the outer and inner condyles, and posteriorly a pro- longation of the tendon of the triceps (1154). Between the inner condyle and olecranon, it sends off a transverse band which binds the two attachments of the flexor carpi vdnaris, and under which passes the ulnar nerve, which even receives a sort of sheath from it. The portion of it which covers the anconeus is very thick and does not adhere. The sheath descends along the fore-arm, and ar- riving at the wrist, is continued into the two annular ligaments, and is traversed by the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and pal- maris longus. It is also separated externally from the skin by nerves and by venous and lymphatic vessels. It sends between them, and especially above, bundles of fibres which pass into the dermis, forming areolae and arches in which the branches of the superficial venous and nervous plexus of the fore-arm pass. It covers all the superficial muscles of the fore-arm, to which it ad- heres above by the different fibrous partitions, which exist be- tween the pronator teres and flexor carpi radialis, the flexor digi- torum sublimis and palmaris longus, the palmaris longus and flexor carpi ulnaris, the extensor digitorum communis and extensor minimi digiti, the extensor minimi digiti and radialis longior, the radialis longior and extensor carpi ulnaris, the latter muscle and anconeus; it is free below and externally; on the inner side it is inserted into the whole inner edge of the ulna. It is denser and stronger than the brachial aponeurosis; but its fibres are much less distinct at the fore and outer part, than internally and behind. These fibres have no constant direction, but cross each other in all directions, and leave between them small quadrilateral open- ings which are traversed by blood vessels. 1107. Before the bend of the elbow, and the prolongation of the biceps muscle, there is observed a plane of very superficial fibres, which descend inwards, and are eftaced about the upper fourth of the fore-arm, to become transverse. This plane divides, above, into two laminfE, one of which passes between the biceps and bra- chialis internus, while the other forms a sheath around the median nerve and vein. OF THE ANNULAR LIGAMENTS OP THE WRIST. 1108. Anterior Annular Ligament {Ligamentum annulare (mterms). This is a strong and broad fibrous band, of a quadri-