PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. These diameters must be measured in adult heads, and from the points mentioned, for the lines that are drawn parallel to them diminish in length in proportion as they recede from them, in what- ever direction. 318. The dimensions of the cranium, which are always much greater than those of the face, vary considerably in different indi- viduals, and we only give them here as something about the me- dium ; for any one of the three diameters may predominate over the others, always, however, by gaining at their expense, which gives rise to many varieties in the form of different heads, although the general capacity of the cavity remains always pretty much the same. Thus we see broad heads, flattened before and behind; liigh heads, in the form of a sugar loaf; long heads, compressed laterally ; ac- cording as the transverse, vertical or longitudinal diameter is largest. The seat of these differences is always in the arch of the cranium, for the base remains constantly the same. 319. The different regions of the cranium vary with respect to their thickness, which is pretty uniform over the vault, of which, however, the upper part is one of the places in which it is most marked, it is much diminished in the temporal and orbital regions, as well as in the lower part of the occiput. The base of the cra- nium, which is very thick opposite the petrous process, the body of the sphenoid bone, the basilar process, and the ridges and pro- tuberances of the occipital bone, is generally very thin in the cere- bellar fossae, the bottom of the grooves of the cribriform plate, the part which corresponds to the orbits, in all which places there is observed very little spongy tissue. The cranium is commonly thinner in children and young people than in adults and aged persons, in whom it generally becomes thicker and more spongy, although it also frequently becomes thinner, either over its whole extent, or only in certain parts. It would also appear that it is harder and thicker in persons affected with mania. In the collection of the Faculty of Paris there is a skull of enormous thickness in this respect. In 1742, Morand pre- sented one to the French Academy, the walls of which were nine lines thick, without any diploe, and uniformly compact. Thomas Bartholin* mentions one of which the walls were also formed of a single layer. M. Jadelot some years ago described a very thick and solidified cranium, in which all the holes which commonly give passage to nerves were obUterated. Various authors f also men- tion that excrescences, resembhng horns of greater or less size, sometimes rise from the surface of the cranium. USES OF THE CIIANIUM. 320. The uses of the cranium are numerous and varied. We have ♦ Anatome, p- 700. . t Ambrose Pair, Fabricius of Hilden, Scverino, Th. Bartholin, &c.