78 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION, contiguous with the neighbouring teeth, and surmounted by two conical tubercles separated by a groove, which follows tlie direction of the alveolar arch : the outer of these tubercles is more promi- nent and larger than the inner. They are more distinct in the upper small molares than in the lower, in which they are so dis- posed, as to leave two small depressions between them. The outer presents, on the side opposite the other, irregular depressions and small points, which render its surface very uneven in that direc- tion. The root is generally simple, sometimes bifurcated at the summit, especially in the upper jaw, but seldom entirely double. It presents on each of its surfaces a very deep groove, and is sepa- rated from the crown by a nearly circular neck; its summit is pierced by two holes. 265. Tlie next three on each side, called the Large Molar teeth^ (Multiczcspidati), are in general remarkable for their great size. Their crown, which is nearly cubical, slightly rounded externally and within, and flattened in the other directions, manifestly ex- ceeds the level of the small grinders on the outside of the arch. On the upper surface of each, there are observed four or five pyra- midal tubercles, separated by very distinct grooves. Their root, which is shorter than that of the small grinders, is divided into two, three, four, or five branches, which all present an aperture at their summit; they vary as to their degree of divergence, direction and inclination, as well as to their length, and the smoothness or rough- ness of their surface. The enamel descends a little lower upon the free surfaces of these teeth, than tipon the sides by which they touch each other. Their neck is very distinct. 266. The Jirst of the large molar teeth is the broadest and largest of all; its crown has commonly three outer and two inner tubercles. In the upper jaw, its root is triple or sometimes quad- ruple ; in the lower, it is only double. 267- The second large molar is a little smaller. In the lower jaw, its tubercles, which are four, are separated by a crucial groove; but this arrangement is much less regular in the upper, where the crown has a rhomboidal form ; the two external branches of the root of the tooth of the upper jaw have a vertical direction, are placed close together, and arc smaller than the third, which is in- ternal, and diverges much from the others. The latter character is common to it with the preceding tooth. 268. The third large molar tooth does not make its appear- ance until long after the others, on which account it is called the Wisdom Tooth, (Dens sapientice seu tardivus). It is smaller than the second, and its axis is still more evidently directed inwards. Its crown is rounded, and furnished with three or four tubercles. Its root is generally simple, short and conical; but in the upper jaw it is sometimes quadrifid. 269. The crown of the teeth increases in breadth from the in- cisors to the first large molar, and then diminishes to the last. Their roots diminish in length from the canine tooth to the wis-