OllGANS OF SENSATION. 46G the j caw, and is distributed to the roots of the canine teeth and in- cisors ; the otlier, winch is larger, emerges by the mental hole, and divides into a great number of jfi laments which are distributed to the triangularis, quadratus, levator menti, buccinator and orbicu- laris oris muscles, and anastomose with twigs of the facial nerve. Most of these filaments commence by ascending between the mem- brane of the motith and the muscles. Others go to the free edge of the under lip, where they form a sort of plexus, to the mucous follicles which occur in it, and the skin of the neighbouring parts. I67O. Auricular or Superficial Temporal Branch {nervus tempo- ralis sii/perficialis sive auricularis). Its origin takes place sometimes by a single root, sometimes by two, in the interval of which the middle meningeal artery passes. It then winds backwards and outwards between the condyle of the jaw and the auricular canal, and there it gives off two filaments which anastomose with the facial nerve. Then, covered by the parotid gland, it descends deeply before that canal, furnishes a filament to the temporo-maxillary articulation, and gains the base of the zygomatic process, after giving off ramifica- tions to the deep parts of the ear, and especially to the skin of the meatus auditorius, at which they arrive by passing between its bony and its fibro-cartilaginous portions. Several of them spread a little farther upon the external ear. It then divides into two fila- ments, the one anterior, the other posterior, which subdivide and accompany the branches of the temporal artery, and are spread out in the integuments of the temple, forehead, and top of the head, anastomosing frequently with those of the facial nerve and of the occipital twig of the third cervical nerve. I'he posterior filament in particular sends a great number of ramifications to the external ear, that is to say, to the heUx and the prior auriculae and attolens aiiriculam muscles. OF THE SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES- (Nervus sewtus sive ahducens.) 1671. At first sight this nerve would seem to arise from the groove which separates the annular protuberance from the medulla oblongata; but a Uttle attention shows that its roots are situated beside the pyramidal eminences, along which they ascend as far as the groove, where they divide into two distinct bundles, which the last fibres of the protuberance sometimes cover, and which quickly unite a little more anteriorly. Each of these bundles is composed of two or three filaments placed behind each other. 1672. The nerve, thus formed, is intermediate in size to the fourth and third pairs of nerves. It is surrounded by neurilema from the point where it appears under the protuberance. It pro- ceeds forwards, upwards and outwards, along the basilar groove, to beneath the posterior clinoid process, where it perforates the