633 OF THE I'EIIICARDIUM. noid membrane and the pleurae. Applied below, directly and in a very close manner, upon the aponeurosis of the diaphragm, it ascends forwards along the fibrous membrane to the place where the latter is prolonged upon the great vessels of the base of the heart. There, it is reflected upon the aorta, above its first curve ; to the left upon the pulmonaiy artery, before its bifurcation ; to the right upon the vena cava superior, about an inch above its en- trance into the auricle, and on the right pulmonary veins, imme- diately after their issuing from the lung. It covers the anterior surface of all these vessels, penetrates into their intervals to a great- er or less distance, and invests the aorta and pulmonary artery in their whole circumference, excepting the place where they are in immediate contact. It also covers, between them, the ductus ar- teriosus, or the ligament by which it is substituted. In the place where this membrane is reflected, the separation of the two laminae t)f the pericardium may be very distinctly seen, a very perceptible triangular space existing between them. Having thus arrived at the base of the heart, the serous mem- brane of the pericardium proceeds directly from the pulmonary artery over the ventricles, and from the vena cava over the right auricle. On leaving the aorta, it is prolonged into a depression which exists between that artery and the right auricle, whence it also directs itself towards the ventricles. From the summit and edges of the heart, it goes to its posterior surface and covers it, ascends again to its base, embraces it to the right and be- low the vena cava inferior, to the left and above the left pulmonary veins, and is reflected over the posterior part of the fibrous mem- brane. This membrane dives into all the irregularities which the heart presents at its sui'face, where it is so thin and transparent, especi- ally upon the ventricles, that it becomes very difficult to demon- strate its existence, excepting in the places where it is separ- ated from the fleshy fibres by adipose tissue. It adheres inti- mately to the fibrous membrane, and can only be detached from it in points of small extent, or at the place of its reflection. It has very little attachment to the vessels, and can easily be raised from their surface. '22i2. The inner surface of this membrane, which is everywhere in contact with itself, is smooth and polished, and continually mois- tened by a serous fluid. 2243. The arteries of the pericardium are very small, and arise from the thymic, phrenic, bronchial, and oesophageal arteries, the coronary arteries of the heart, the internal mammary arteries and the aorta itself Its veins correspond to the arteries, and partly terminate in the vena azygos. Its lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia which surround the vena cava superior, and the origin of the aorta. Nervous filaments have not yet been traced into the substance of its laminae.