177 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. nal pterygoid muscle, so that this ligament separates the two muscles of this name from each other. 577- Stylo-maocillary Ligament. This ligament appears less intended for connecting the maxillary bone with the temporal, than for multiplying the attachments of the stylo-glossus muscle. It is a mere aponeurotic cord, rather thin, which is attached above to the styloid process of the temporal bone, from whence it descends towards the angle of the jaw, where its fibres are inserted between the masseter and pterygoideus interaus. It receives by its inner side a great part of the fibres of the stylo-glossus muscle.* 578. Synovial Membranes or Capsules. They are two in num- ber, because this articulation contains in its interior an interme- I diate fibro-cartilage. The upper, after being expanded over the . cartilage of the glenoid cavity, and tuber articulare, is continued I downwards over the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage ; while the loiver, after investing the inferior surface of the same organ, covers the condyle of the jaw, being a little more prolonged posteriorly I than anteriorly. These two synovial capsules have no communi- ( cation together, unless the fibro-cartilage is perforated at its centre, which sometimes happens. Ewternally, they correspond to the ( external lateral ligament; posteriorly, to the parotid gland ; ante- ' riorly, to the external pterygoid muscle ; internally, to adipose cel- lular tissue. Their posterior part is very loose, and strengthened by an irregular fibrous layer, which is perforated by a great num- ber of holes for vascular twigs. 579. Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage. It presents the form of a I thin lamina, transversely oval, separating from each other the two > synovial membranes, to which it adheres strongly by its two sur- faces. Its upper surface is concave from before backwards, a little V convex transversely at its anterior and posterior parts, and is thus i accommodated to the disposition of the glenoid cavity. The inferior surface is concave, and covers the condyle. Its cir- ' cxmiference lies between the fold of the two synovial membranes ; II it adheres externally to the external lateral hgament; gives attach- n raent anteriorly to some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle; t and, posteriorly, is penetrated by a considerable number of small ^ vessels. It is thicker throughout, and especially behind, than ' at the middle part, which is often perforated with a hole, as we |h have said, (.578). I The fibres of this cartilage arc concentric and very close ; they > are better seen at the circumference than at the centre. * Tlierc is still pretty generally admitted in this articulation atiotlii>r lignniciit whicli is named the Inlr.r.viuxillary ; but, as Boyer remarks, it is nothing l)ut un :ij)oi)eurosis common to the buccinator and constrictor pharyugis superior mucles. i his will be spoken of, when these muscles arc described. N i