485 OF THE CERVICAL NERVES. into three twigs which separate from each other in a radiating manner. The first, or superior and internal, directs itself trans- versely inwards, between the complexus and rectus capitis posti- cus major, in which muscles it loses itself as well as in the rectus posticus minor. The second, or superior and external, ascends outwards, and is distributed to the obliquus capitis superior. It is sometimes double or triple, so that, in proportion to its size, this muscle receives a great quantity of nervous filaments. The third or inferior twig descends towards the middle part of the upper edge of the obliquus inferior, and subdivides into several filaments, some of which lose themselves in that muscle, while the others, which are often very slender, and most commonly two in number, anastomose in their course, forming a kind of nervous arch, with the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. One of these latter passes behind the muscle, and the other traverses it, to throw itself into the middle part of the complexus. They vary much in respect to size. In some subjects, in place of these three twigs, the branch im- mediately divides into seven or eight filaments which proceed di- rectly to their destination. OF THE SECOND PAIR OF CERVICAL NERVES.* (Neinius Cervicalis Secundus). 1729. Posterior Branch. This branch is larger than the ante- rior, which is the reverse of what is observed in the other cervical nerves except the first. It is reflected from beneath upwards un- der the lower edge of the obliquus capitis inferior, ascends between it and the complexus, proceeds inwards, traverses the last mention- ed muscle, becomes sub-cutaneous and divides into several twigs upon the occipital bone. At its commencement, it communicates upwards with the first cervical nerve (1728), and downwards with the corresponding branch of the third cervical (1731) ; it also gives a filament to the highest part of the levator anguli scapulte. At its reflection, it sends before the complexus numerous filaments which descend into its substance and are there lost, or which, pass- ing under its inner edge, gain its posterior surface, and are there distributed, as well as in the trachelo-mastoideus and splenius, and sometimes in the trapezius and sterno-mastoideus. Lastly, it ter- minates at the back part of the head, by twigs which are expanded in the occipital muscle and integuments, or anastomose with the filaments of the frontal (1651), first cervical (1728), and pos- terior auricular (1678) nerves, and with those of the cervical plexus (I743). • Some anatomiKts call this the first pair, becniise they do not include the pre- ceding among the spinal nerves. 2