323 MUSeiiES OF THE FORli-ARM. OF THE EXTENSOR CAKPI UADIALIS LONGIOR. (Radialis Externus Longior.) 1181. This mviscle, nearly of the same form as the supinator lori- giis, beneath which it is situated, arises farther down, from the outer edge of the humerus, and from the aponeurosis which separates it from the triceps ; it also receives some fibres from the upper part of the outer condyle. It forms a bundle at first flat, then larger and rounded, which descends vertically on the outside of the fore- arm, and, about a third down the radius, terminates in a tendon at first thin and broad, then narrower and thicker, which at its lower part turns backwards, glides beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi internodii, pollicis, and covers the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevier, with which it is connected by cel- ,lular tissue. Both tendons enter a particular groove, formed behind the lower extremity of the radius, where they are fixed by the posterior annular ligament of the carpus. A synovial mem- brane, tolerably supplied with moisture, lines the groove, is reflect- ed over them, and descends nearly to their insertion. On emerging from this groove the two tendons separate. That of the extensor carpi radialis longior passes over the wrist joint, and is inserted at the posterior and outer part of the vipper extremity of the second metacarpal bone. 1182. The afiterior surface of this muscle, which is inclined outwards, is covered by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, the supi- nator longus, extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi inter- nodii, pollicis. The posterior covers the elbow joint, the su- pinator brevis, and extensor carpi radialis brevier muscles. At its upper part it is firmly united to the latter. 1183. It extends the hand upon the fore-arm, and the latter up- on the hand. OF THE EXTENSOll CAKPI RADIALIS BREVIOR. (Radialis Externus Brevior.J 1184. This muscle is precisely similar to the preceding, behind which it is placed. It arises from the outer condyle by means of the common tendon (1187), which sends an aponeurotic prolonga- tion over its inner surface, and an aponeurotic partition between it and the extensor communis digitorum. It descends in the same curection as the extensor carpi radialis longior, degenerates into a tendon of the same length and form, which passes into the same groove (1181), and is attached to the posterior, and outer part of tnc upper extremity of the third metacarpal bone.