PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. ■with the rest of the vertebra, it is depressed and marked above with a groove for the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve, and below for the second cervical nerve. The atlas has moreover a large vertebral foramen, divided by a ligament into two portions ; of which the posterior alone contributes to the formation of the canal. Two irregular tubercles, on the inside of the upper articular pro- cesses give attachnient to this hgament. The notches are here situated behind the articular processes, which are nearly horizontal and very broad. The superior, which is concave, oval, and inclined inwards, is articvdatcd with the occipital bone; the inferior, which is nearly plain, is also inclined inwards, and is connected with the second vertebra. Lastly, the transverse processes are very long, terminate in a more or less obtuse point, and seem to rise by a double root, of which the anterior branch is more slender, the ]ios- terior longer and thicker. The hole in their base is larger than in the other cervical vertebrjB. 57. Tlie atlas, which in the adult is almost entirely formed of compact tissue, and is articulated with the occipital bone and the axis, is sometimes developed by five points of ossilication, one for the anterior arch, two for the posterior, and one for each of its la- teral parts. But more commonly this vertebra commences its development with three points only, one median or two lateral points for the anterior arch, and two for the lateral masses and the posterior arch. 58. The Axis or Second Vertebra, {Epistropheus, seu sectmda colli vertebra,) has a nearly triangular circumference. The body is much higher than it is broad, and is marked anteriorly with a central ridge and two hollows for the longi colli muscles. From its upper part arises a long, rounded, vertical projection, named the odontoid* or tooth-like process, which is articulated before with the anterior arch of the atlas, and is marked behind with a small con- vex surface for sliding on the transverse ligament. Its summit, which is rough and pointed, gives attachment to ligaments, which are connected with the occipital condyles. The spinous process is here very large, and is marked below with a broad and deep chan- nel. The upper notches are placed much farther back tlian the lower. The superior articular processes are nearly horizontal, inclined a little outwards, and convex : they are much broader than the inferior, which are turned forwards and downwards. The trans^ verse jnocesses are very short, and are neither bifurcated nor chan- nelled; they seem, as it were, to arise from the superior articular processes, and instead of a hole their base is perforated by a short canal, for the vertebral artery, which has an oblique direction out- wards. The la.mime are very thick and strong. Lastly, the ver- tebral/o/ame?^ is heart-shaped. In the fetus, the second vertebra has a point of ossiiication more