735 OF THK VEINS. ilic number is found to be much greater when it is observed that an artery is often accompanied by two veins of equal size with itself; that the roots of the veins also are more numerous than the branches of the arteries, and that many veins are entirely isolated from the arteries, as is observed under the integuments of the limbs and trunk, in the braiu, S:c. 2680. The radicles of the veins unite successively so as to form trunks which become so much the larger the nearer they approach the heart; but as the sum of the diameter of all these radicles is much greater than that of the last trunks, there results that the venous system represents a cone whose summit is at the heart, while its base is at the circumference of the body. These radicles anastomose frequently together, and form net-works like those of the last ramifications of the arteries which give rise to them (2278). Somethnes also two principal venous trunks inosculate with each other. 2681. The walls of the veins are much thinner than those of the arteries, and have a grayish-white tint. They are formed of only, two coats. The outer is loose, extensile, composed of longitudinal fibres more or less apparent, and more or less close. It is fre- quently surrounded by a sheath of cellular tissue, the lamellse of which are placed very close upon each other. The inner coat is thin, smooth, and polished, having a considerable resemblance to that which lines the arterial tubes (2279), but never containing bony dots hke those which are so frequently met with in the latter. This coat is prolonged into the right cavities of the heart and the sinuses of the dura mater, and, by being folded in the veins, forms there a great number of semilunar valves similar to those which we have seen at the commencement of the pulmonary artery and aorta. These valves are sometimes isolated, more frequently disposed in pairs, but rarely three together. Their free edge is directed towards the heart, and is more or less concave. They are much more abundant in the veins of the inferior extremities than in those of the head or superior extremities. The system of the vena ports has none. Their use evidently appears to be to prevent the blood from returning, by the veins, from tlic heart towards the circum- ference of the body, and their number is so much the greater the farther we remove from the heart. 2682. The coats of the veins, like those of the arteries, contain minute arteries and veins ; but they are far from presentino- so great a number of nervous filaments. The vena porta; is the only one in which a very apparent nervous plexus is observed (1916). I