ORGANS OF SENSATION. 528 The upper have a direction obliquely downwards; the lower are nearly horizontal. The former gain the upper part of the pharynx, where they anastomose with twigs of the glosso-pharyngeal (1697), 'i"d pncu*: mo-gastric nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus (I7OI'). The latter wind over the sides of tlie larynx, and cover the thy- roid body, and the muscles of the inferior hyoid region, with nu- merous and plexiform ramitications, some of whicli penetrate into the larynx through the thyro-hyoid (1477),and crico-thyroid (14)7H) membranes, and afterwards anastomose with the internal laryngeal (I705), and recurrent (17(HJ) nerves. Some other anastomoses with the latter nerve also take place behind the thyroid gland, by means of a filament which proceeds separately from the ganglion. . OF THE ANTEniOn FILAMENTS. 1880. These filaments, which are very numerous, and for the most part continually interlaced, are of three kinds. 1°. Some of them, which are superior and very short, go to anas-:, tomose immediately with the facial, and pneumo-gastric nerves.: One of these filaments, which is longer than the others and very slender, goes to unite with the stylo-hyoid twig of the facial nerve- (I679), and sometimes sends a ramification into the stylo-mastoid hole, to form on the promontory of the tympanum the anastomosis of which we have already spoken (1875). This ramification then replaces one of those of the superior filaments, or joins the trunk of the facial nerve itself. 2°. Others, to the number of two or three only, of a reddish co- lour and soft consistence, leave the ganglion to proceed forwards, behind the point of division of the common carotid artery, where they form a plexus with numerous meshes, in conjunction with de- scending filaments of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (1697)- Of the filaments which issue from this plexus some run behind the com- mon carotid artery, and accompany it as far as the arch of the aor- * ta, or the arteria innominata, crossing each other in a very in- tricate manner: they constitute the Common Carotid Ple<vus. The others turn over the external carotid artery, and envelope it with a plexus which divides into as many seeondciry plexuses as the latter presents branches, and which are moreover joined by very slender filaments of the facial and pneumo-gastric nerves. Fre- quently at the origin of these secondary lingual, facial^ occipital, temporal, inferior pharyngeal, and infernal mamUary plenuses, there are observed small white or gray ganglia, which give out fila- ments to them like so many radii. The point which these plexuses terminate cannot be precisely determined ; but it is more than pro- bable, that they accompany the arteries to their last ramifications. They have been traced as far as the middle of the face, towards the division of frhc labial artcricu.