MUSCJLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. S59- brous lamina, which envelopes them in a mdre or less irregular manner; and there are detached from it on all sides a considerable number of small filaments, which lose themselves in the chorion of the skin. Its irmer surface covers a portion of the iliacus and psoas muscles, and of the crural artery and vein, the sciatic nerve^ popliteal artery, and all the superficial muscles of the hip and >;high. It is separated from all these parts by adipose tissue. It gives attachment to some fibres of the glutaeus mcdius. 1324. Aponeurosis of the Leg. This is thinner than the apo-^ peurosis of the thigh; like it, its fibres also cross each other in dif- ferent directions, but at the lower part of the leg, are almost .all transverse. It is very strong and dense anteriorly, and thin in the other directions. It is continuous above with the crural apo- neurosis ; but it also arises from the head of the fibula, and from /several fibrous expansions detached from the tendons of the I triceps extensor, sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles. •From thence it descends around the leg, attaching itself to the whole extent of the anterior and internal edges of the tibia, and sending downwards and backwards a pretty thick partition, which passes before the tendo Achillis, and behind the muscles of the deep, and posterior layer of the leg, to ascend, between them and the soleus, to the middle of the leg, where it gradually loses itself. 1325. Below and before, this aponeurosis is continuous with the anterior annular ligament of the tarsus. Posteriorly, it gra- dually disappears towards the heel. Externally, it is inserted into the sheath of the tendon of the peronei ; and internally, to the in- ternal annular Ugament. Its outer surface is covered by the in- teguments, by adipose tissue, blood vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. .The inner is applied upon the superficial muscles of the leg, and gives attachment above to the tibialis anticus, extensor communis -digitorura and peroneus longus. Inferiorly, it sends a prolonga- tion between the two latter-. OF THE ANNULAR LIGAMENTS OF THE TARSUS. 1326. Anterior Annular Ligament. This is a quadrilateral fibrous bundle, extended transversely over the ankle, much thicker externally than at its inner part, and embracing the tendons of the ■extensors of the toes, and of the tibialis anticus and peroneus ter- iiua. It is attached to the fore part of the superior depression of the calcancum, where it is immersed in the cellular tissue, and from whence it is directed inwards. It soon divides into two la- mmae for the purpose of embracing the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and peroneus tertius, beyond which these la- minae unite, to separate again for the tibiahs antic^8 and extensor poilicis. Lastly, it terminates at the fore part of the malleolus in- ternus, scndmg a very distinct prolongation to the os naviculare