37'2 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. where it is inserted by aponeuroses, which are also pretty long. Its posterior surface is covered by the sciatic nerve, and by the glu- tJEUs maximus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus muscles. The anterior covers the obturator externus, the extremity of the tendon of the psoas magnus, and the posterior part of tlie small trochanter, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. Its uses are the same as those of the gemelli.* OF THE OBTURATOK INTEKNUS. 1376. This muscle is almost entirely situated within the pelvis. It is flat and triangular, and reflected upon itself as it emerges from the pelvis, to proceed to the upper and posterior part of the thigh. It arises, by rather indistinct aponeurotic fibres, from the posterior surface of the pubes, within and above the obturator hole, from the obturator ligament (638) excepting towards the aperture through which the obturator vessels and nerve pass, where it is connected with a small fibrous arch, and from the bony surface which separates the obturator hole from the sciatic notch, immedi- ately beneath the upper strait of the pelvis. Arising from all these points, the fleshy fibres converge, and descend to below the sciatic spine. But before they reach that point, four or five dis- tinct, isolated, tendinous slips, occupying at first the interior of the muscle, appear upon its outer surface, approach each other, and at length turn outwards over the edge of the small sciatic notch, as over a pulley, where they are lodged each in a small groove in- crusted with cartilage. On emerging from the pelvis, these slips unite into a thick and flat tendon, which is horizontal, separated from the fleshy fibres, situated between the two gemelli, confound- ed with their tendons and inserted along with them, into the cavity of the trochanter, between the pyramidalis and obturator externus. 1377- The outer surface of this muscle is applied within the pelvis against the os innominatum and obturator ligament. Ex- ternally of that cavity, it is covered by the sciatic nerve and glutte- us maximus. Its inner surface corresponds to the outer lamina of the pelvic fascia (1313), and passes over the capsule of the hip joint. 1378. Synovial Bursa. Where the obturator muscle turns over the sciatic notch there is a synovial capsule, plentifully mois- tened, which covers the cartilage with which that notch is incrust- ed, and is reflected over the slips of the tendon, and a little over the outer surface of the muscle, especially at its outer part. 1379. It rotates the thigh outwards, and abducts it. * Nonnunquam deest. Soemm. 1. c. torn. iii. p. ?86. Albiniis Hist. muse. liom. p. 530. .Je I'ai vu manquer cliez un sujet doiit les luuscles jumoaux avuieiU uiie force extraordinaire. Meckel op. cit. Tom. ii. p. 195.