MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 315 MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. Anterior and siiperjicial Region of the Fore-Arm. OF THE PRONATOR TERES. 114)9. This muscle is extended obliquely at the upper and ante- rior part of the fore-arm. It is rather short, broad at its com- mencement, then thicker, and at last obviously contracted, but still broader than thick. It arises from the inner condyle by a tendon •which is common to it with the flexor carpi radiahs, palraaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum sublirais; from the coronoid process by another small distinct tendon, which permits the median nerve to pass between it and the first; from an aponeurotic septum which separates it internally from the flexor carpi radialis ; from a similar partition placed between' it and the flexor subhmis, and lastly, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. Its fleshy fibres, ■which are aU parallel, descend from thence obliquely outwards, to the middle of the outer surface of the radius, where they are at- tached by means of a broad and thick tendon, at first concealed in their substance, and afterwards expanded in the form of a mem- brane over their anterior surface. 1150. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered, in its two upper thirds, by the aponeurosis of the fore-arm and by the skin; in the lower thii'd, by the supinator longus, the radial nerve and vessels, and the radial extensor muscles. The posterior sur- face covers the brachialis intemus and flexor sublimis muscles, as weU as the median nerve and ulnar artery. Its outer edge is se- parated above from the supinator longus, by a triangular space in which are lodged the tendon of the biceps, the brachial artery and the median nerve ; inferiorly, it is parallel to the anterior edge of the supinator brevis, which it covers a little. 1151. The pronator teres turns the radius upon the ulna from without inwards, and thus turns the hand prone. If the radius is kept back by the supinator muscles, it can bend the fore-arm upon the arm, or the latter upon the former. OF THE FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS. 1152. This muscle, which is long, fusiform, thick and fleshy above, thin and tendinous below, is situated internally of the pro- nator teres. It arises above from the inner condyle by the common tendon of which we have spoken (1149) ; anteriorly, from the apo- neurosis of the fore-arm ; posteriorly, from an aponeurotic septum which separates it from the flexor sublimis, and wliich afterwards descends some way upon its posterior surface; externally and in-