OF THE INTERNAL FILAMENTS. 5m The common carotid plexus sends some twigs to the pharynx, the larynx and the trachea. That of the facial artery sends twigs : to the submaxillary gland, and communicates with those of its ; ganglion (1873), and with those of the gustatory and hypo-glossal i (I723). nerves ; that of the inferior maxillary artery arrives at the i dura mater, by following the middle meningeal artery. 3°. The last anterior filaments of the superior cervical ganglion I unite after a short course, to form the superior cardiac nerve, of ' which we shall presently speak. OF THE MICBLE CERVICAL OR THYllOID GANGLION. (G. cervicale medium seu thyroideum.) 1881. This ganglioUj which is often entirely wanting, sometimes (double, and which varies extremely as to size, is situated opposite I the fifth or sixth vertebra, near the curve of the inferior thyroid : artery. Its colour is grayish; it is rounded or lenticular, but 1 never fusiform, and differs much as to figure in different subjects. \ Its tissue is firmer than that of the preceding plexus. The outer side corresponds to the carotid artery, internal jugular 'Vein, and pneumo-gastric nerve. The posterior is applied upon t the longus colli muscle. Its filaments are distinguished into inferior, external, internal, ! and anterior. OF THE INFERIOR FILAMENTS. 1882. Their number is irregular and indeterminate. Most com- I monly there are fiVe or sil. They ai'e thin and slender. Some of t them descend before the subclavian artery, others behind it, send- ing some ramifications ihto the plexuses which cover it; and all, after approaching each other, terminate in the inferior cervical ganghon. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1883. Frequently there is only one, which perforates transverse- ly the scalenus muscle, and goes to anastomose with the seventh cervical nerve. In other circumstances, the sixth and fifth also each receive one. OF THE INTERNAL fiLAMENTS. 1884.. Some of them pass behind the carotid artery, and go to «term a nervous plexus around the inferior thyroid artery and its 2 M