802 ORGANS OF SECRETION. 2956. The Fundus of the Bladder is in general all that part of its internal surface that corresponds to tlie inferior region of its ex- ternal surface (2918). OGANIZATION OF THE BLADDER. 2957. Peritoneal or Serous Coat. Placed entirely at the sur- face, it belongs to the peritoneum, which from the upper edge of the pubes, is reflected over the superior, posterior, and lateral re- gions of the bladder, the only parts of that organ which are con- nected with it. A rather loose cellular tissue unites it to the mus- cular coat, and is then prolonged all round the bladder, of whose walls it seems to constitute a distinct layer. 2958. Muscular Coat. It is intermediate in colour and thick- ness to those of the stomach (2159) and oesophagus (2142). It is pretty thick towards the fundus, between the vcsiculaa semi- naies, and at the superior region, but is everywhere else extremely thin. It is composed of a great quantity of small whitish fasciculi, flattened, and affecting various directions. The greater number however are longitudinal, a few only being transverse. Those which are situated in the median line appear to ascend from the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder towards the urachus. The rest arise from the lateral parts of the neck, and cross each other at the superior region. Sometimes, as we have already said (2953), they unite into cylindrical columns, which cross each other, and are more or less prominent. The neck of the bladder is not surrounded by a particular mus- cle, as some anatomists aver, who have even designated this alleged muscle by the name of the Sphincter. The fleshy fibres are only brought closer together around it than elsewhere; and they are there applied upon a layer of whitish, firm, elastic, extensile tissue, having a fibrous appearance, which is prolonged, becoming thinner, as far as the base of the trigonal space, and which contributes to form the prominence of the uvula vesicae. 2959- Cellular Coat. This is a thin layer of pretty dense, ex- tensile, lamellar and filamentous tissue, which connects together in an intimate manner the mucous and muscular coats of the bladder, and in which numerous vessels and nerves are seen to creep. 2960. Mucous Coat. Continuous with that which hues the ureters and urethra, this membrane is thin and whitish, especially towards the neck of the bladder. In the rest of its extent, it is frequently marbled with a slight red tint. Its villosities are very delicate, and not readily seen. In the natural state, no crypts or mucous follicles have been yet perceived in it; in certain patholo- gical cases, however, their presence is very apparent. .2961. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the bladder arise from the hypogastric (2579), umbilical (2576), ischiatic (2588), middle hoemorrhoidal (2585), and internal pudic arteries (2591)-