OF THE THORACIC GANGLIA. 535 1 the heart, from the basis of the pulmonary artery to the summit of c the organ. A third, which is of smaller size, descends immediate- ! ly behind the heart. Some of the filaments which constitute this J plexus, separate and are distributed to the walls of the heart. 2°. The filaments of the second class arise a little below the pre- ( ceding, between the aorta and pulmonary artery. Some of them pass behind the latter, and gain the posterior coronary plexus, which also receives others that have descended between the two vessels. But there are some which turn over the aorta, go to the fore part of the base of the heart, and constitute the anterior co- ronary plectyus which is destined to accompany the artery of the same name. This plexus, which is much smaller than the preceding, receives however the inferior cardiac nerve which belongs entirely to it. It is distributed upon the right auricle and the whole convex surface of the heart, anastomosing with the posterior towards the left edge of that organ. OF THE THORACIC GANGLIA. 1903. Much smaller and less distinct than the cervical ganglia, .they are twelve in number on each side, disposed in one and the same line, beneath the pleura, anteriorly to the head of each rib, or in the intercostal spaces. Their number may vary, however, there being often only eleven, because the first is confounded with the inferior cervical ganglion, (1886). The first ganglion, which, is larger than the others, is placed at the outer side of the longus colli muscle. They are all firm, and of an oblong form, resem- bling grains of barley. They all communicate with each other by ^laments which go from the lower part of the one to the upper part of the other, and, moreover, furnish external and internal fila- Jnents. OF THE CONNECTING FILAMENTS. 1904. They are strong and of great size, frequently equalling the ganglia themselves in diameter, and are never multiple or ra- mified between two neighbouring ganglia. Their direction is not the same in all, their origin in each ganglion being more or less near the vertebral column. The intercostal arteries always pass behind them. OF THE EXTERNAL FILAMENTS. 1905. Their numbei- varies. Sometimes tlicrc is only one for «ach ganglion; l)ut more commonly there arc two and even four.