294 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE SCALENUS ANTICUS. 1064. The Scalenus Anticus is a long flat muscle, simple and broader below, narrow and divided into several portions above, si- tuated upon the lateral and inferior part of the neck. It is at- tached by a tendon which expands over the fleshy fibres, to the outer surface and upper edge of the first rib, toward the middle of its length, and ascends a little obliquely inwards and backwards, dividing immediately into four fleshy tongues connected by their neighbouring edges, and giving rise to as many small tendons, the upper of which are most distinct. Each of them is inserted, by means of these tendons, into the anterior tubercle of one of the transverse processes of the neck, from the third to the sixth in- clusive. 1065. Th,e anterior side of this muscle is covered below by the subclavian vein; higher up, by the transverse and ascending cervical arteries, the phrenic nerve, and the omo-hyoideus and sterno-mas- toideus muscles. Its posterior side forms with the next muscle a triangular space, broad below, contracted above, in which are lodged, inferiorly, the subclavian artery, and superiorly, the branches of the cervical nerves, which form the brachial plexus. Its inner side is separated from the longus colli by the vertebral artery and veins. 1066. This muscle bonds the cervical portion of the spine late- rally and forwards. It also assists in inspiration, by raising the first rib. OF THE SCALENUS POSTICUS.* . 1067- Longer and larger than the preceding, but of the same form, and placed farther back, the scalenus posticus arises below from the outer sxurface of the first rib, from a rough impression which is observed behind the passage of the subclavian artery, and from the upper edge of the second rib. These two origins take place by aponeurotic fibres, which are prolonged to a great distance among the fleshy fibres. The second origin is sometimes wanting, and is always smaller than the first. The muscle which is here separated into two distinct bundles, soon unites, although it is sometimes separated in its whole length, ascends a little obHquely inwards and forwards, and terminates by six small tendons, of which the superior are the longest, on the posterior tubercles of the last six transverse processes of the neck. It is observed, in some cases, that a small bundle proceeds from the portion attached to the axis to ascend to the transverse process of the atlas. * This includes what is generally described as the Scalenus nicdim and Spakmis fOiticus.