ORGANS OF SENSATION. 432 much more intimate, on account of the small filaments and nume- rous vessels which traverse them to join the pericranium, which h especially remarkable in the sagittal suture. On the vault of the cranium, also, the dura mater sends a small fibrous canal througli the parietal hole, which serves as an envelope to a small vein. 1559. At the base of the cranium, the external surface of the du- ra mater is very complex in its disposition, on account of the great number of holes and inequalities which are observed in that region. It sinks into the foramen coecum, (153), where it contracts pretty intimate adhesions by several prolongations. It embraces the sum- mit of the crista-galli of the ethmoid bone, whence it descends on each side into the ethmoid grooves : there, at each hole of the cribriform plate, (131), it furnishes for each branch of the olfac- tory nerves a small fibrous canal, which terminates on the outer layer of the pituitary membrane. More laterally, similar canals pene- trate into the internal orbitar canals to accompany the nerves and vessels which they contain, and are continued into the periosteum of the orbit. Lastly, altogether on the sides, the dura mater ad- heres but little to the orbitar arches, even at the place of the sphe- noidal suture (282). 1560. More posteriorly, it adheres in a decided manner to the | groove at the fore part of the sella turcica, and penetrates into the optic foramina, forming an envelope for the optic nerves. This cylindrical envelope separates when it arrives at the posterior inser- tion of the recti muscles of the eye ; its outer lamina, which is ra- ther thin, expands into the periosteum of the orbit; the inner, which is whiter, denser, thicker, and immediately applied on the nerve, accompanies it to the ball of the eye, and is continued into the sclerotic membrane. Behind the optic hole, the dura mater presents a circular aper- ture which embraces the internal carotid artery as it issues from the cavernous sinus ; some fibres arising from the circumference of this aperture, seem to throw themselves into the walls of the artery. At its anterior part, there occurs the orifice of a small canal, formed inferiorly between the two laminae of the envelope of the optic nerve. It transmits the ophthalmic artery into the orbit. The dura mater then lines the sella turcica (115), where it is' covered by the pituitary body (1506) which separates it from the I arachnoid membrane at this place; it then passes over the sides of \ the body of the sphenoid bone, where it divides into two lamina", to form the cavernous sinuses. The inner of these laminas is thin, and immediately covers the cavernous groove ; the outer, which it^ free, forms the opposite wall of the sinus. I 1561. On the free edge of the processes of Ingrassias, the dur.i mater forms a small fold which enters into the fissura Sylvii; then, descending from thence vertically, it closes the sphenoidal fissure, and sends through it a prolongation, thicker on the inner side, which proceeds into the orbit, and is continuous with the perios