623 OF THE LUNGS. In all cases, the volume of the lungs is exactly proportioned to I the capacity of the cavity of the thorax, being so much the larger ! the wider the latter is. They follow very accurately the motions : impressed upon its walls, against which they are always applied, , and dilate and contract like them ; nor does any vacuity ever exist i in the interior of the chest. 2213. The lungs are proportionally much lighter than the other I organs; they never sink in water so long as they are in their na- I tural state, and this lightness depends upon the air which pene- trates their whole tissue. In infants which have never breathed, the lungs generally sink in the fluid in which they are immersed. But the absolute weight of the lungs varies much in different individuals in which they are examined, which may depend upon the greater or less quantity of blood that remains in them at the : moment of death, or upon a larger development. It is also to be 1 observed, that in children which have not breathed, the lungs are, with respect to the total weight of the body, in the variable rela- tion of 55, or 70 to 1; whereas the proportion is as 28, or 35 to 1, • when respiration has taken place. The act of respiration, there- 1 fore, diminishes their gravity in a great degree, a circumstance ' which it is of importance to know with reference to medical juris- ] prudence. 2214. The colour of the lungs, in the healthy and adult state, i is a pale yellowish red, more or less approaching to white or gray. ' This tint is equally observed in the interioi*, and at the exterior I of the organ. But if the blood happens to be too much accumu- ! lated in its parenchyma, the colour is a dark red or purple, uni- : formly diffused, or only dispersed in patches, which produces a : marbled appearance. It is for this reason that the lungs are always : more coloured on the side on which a dead body has lain. The reddish, or grayish colour of the lungs, is interrupted by smaU. black and brown spots, irregularly dispersed at their surface, and more or less numerous; they are exactly defined, and in general ; affect a linear form. They are seldom isolated from each other; ; some are entirely superficial, others penetrate more or less deeply into the tissue of the lungs, and there are some which seem limited to the pleura or membrane which immediately envelopes these or- : gans, in the substance of which they also occur. Buisson consi- ' ders them as analogous to the lymphatic ganglia of the bronchi. They only begin to make their appearance about the age of ten or I twelve years. 2215. Of all the solid organs of the body, the lungs are those ' which have the smallest density. They may be compressed with ! the greatest ease, and only resume their original state imperfectly. . Although flexible and soft, however, they have a tissue which is I Hot easily torn. 2216. The form of the lungs is not very easy to be described. : It may, however, in a general manner, be likened to that of a cone, • I having its base directed downwards, and its summit upwards, and I