614 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. tions. This edge in fact corresponds to the whole length of the small intestine, while the posterior has no greater extent thr-n the lumbar portion of the vertebral column. The mesentery contains between its two larainfB a great quantity of lymphatic ganglia, larger in children than in adults, and very ir- regularly disposed m a thick layer of cellular tissue always loaded with fat. There are moreover observed in it, the trunks and branches of the mesenteric vessels and the nervous plexuses which accom- pany them, together with a great number of lacteal and lymphatic vessels. 2181. Muscular Membrane or Coat. It is not so thick as that of the duodenum, and its fibres are pale and not very apparent. The superficial fibres are longitudinal, very thin, not numerous, and collected especially along the convex edge of the intestine. They do not, however, by any means run along its whole extent, but are interrupted from space to space, and seem composed of shorter fibres whose extremities are interlaced with each other. The deep fibres form a more distinct layer; they are curved in the transverse direction of the intestine; but none of them pass entirely round it, they being interrupted like the longitudinal. The muscular membrane is connected with the peritoneum by a layer of cellular tissue, in general very thin, but pretty thick and loose on the side next the mesentery. It is separated from the mucous membrane by another layer of denser and more compact cellular tissue, which continues the nervous coat of the older writ- ers, of which we have already spoken. 2182. Mucous Membrane or Coat. It is whitish and thicker than in the stomach. We have pointed out the valvuke connir ventes which it forms by being folded upon itself (2179). Its vil- losities, which are excessively numerous, and very apparent, are thin, flexible, and collected into pellets or fringes. On examining them with the microscope, it is discovered that each of them is terminated by an oval ampulla perforated with a small hole, which Lieberkuhn considers as the entrance of a lacteal vessel. The walls of this ampulla are lined with a very dehcate and close netr work of arteries and veins. The intervals which exist between these villosities are furnished with a great number of mucous fol- licles, commonly designated by the name of Peyer's Glands, which form shght prominences on the inside of the intestine. They are more numerous on the side next the mesentery than anywhere else. Their form is round or oval; there are also more of them in the lower region of the intestine. 2183. The arteries of the small intestine come from the con- vexity of the terminating branch of the superior mesenteric artery. Its veins join the vena portae. Its lacteals, which are more nume- rous above than below, end in the ganglia of the mesentery. Its nerves arise from the superior mesenteric plexus (1918).