ORGANS OF SENSATION. 454 a solution of potass the parenchyma, obtained by this means, which must be quickly dried after the two ends have been tied with a thread. By means of the microscope, M. Bauer found that the fibres,! whose assemblage constitutes the optic nerve, are composed in ; great measure of very minute globules, whose diameter varic from ju^cu to TTo'i^o of an inch. These globules resemble those Oi the blood deprived of their envelope of colouring matter, and arc united together by a gelatinous substance, very soluble in water and perfectly transparent. 1632. Besides these peculiarities of structure, the optic nerve is: further distinguished from all others, by the circumstances, that it is enveloped by the dura mater to the place of its termination, that it unites with its fellow, and that a Tittle before terminating it prc-| sents a contraction. OF THK THIRD PAIR OF NERVES. (Nervi oculo-motorii). 1G33. These nerves issue* from the crura cerebri, towards thei inner edge, and receive filaments from the substantia perforata mc dia (1506). At their origin the filaments of the third pair ar very soft, and break with the greatest ease. It may, however, with' proper care, be discovered that they are arranged in a line which follows nearly the direction of the crura ; that the posterior are thel longest, and that most of them may be followed under the cerebrali protuberance, as far as the central black spot of the crura. 1634. By their union, these filaments form a flat cord, which is closely embraced by the posterior cerebral and superior cerebella arteries. Presently this cord contracts and becomes rounded, ac quires more consistence, and is enveloped by a neurilema and b the arachnoid membrane. Free at the under part of the brain, i proceeds obliquely forwards and outwards to the point which th tentorium cerebelli forms anteriorly. There, it is lodged in a canal formed in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus of the dura mater . (1562), at the entrance of which it is left by the arachnoid mera-| brane, which forms a cul-de-sac. It thus arrives at the splienoidal | fissure, being only separated from the internal carotid artery by a ■ thin lamina of cellular tissue. In this part of its course, that is to say, . from its entrance under the dura mater, this nerve is situated inter- k nally of and above the nerve of the fourth pair, and the ophthalmic }f branch of the fifth; but under the anterior chnoid process, it is, in = • It is to be observed that we employ tliis and similar expressions for the purpose of accommodating ourselves to the language generally adopted, for it now appears demonstrated that tiie nerves isolated from the spinal marrow and brain, arc, on tlie contrary, in conseejucnce of a conccntiic march, inserted into the tissue of these latter parts.