46 PASSIVK ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the etlimoid or palate bones ; on this account they are not com- monly described as distinct bones. 145. The base of each of these bones is adapted to the posterior part of the lateral masses of the ethmoid in such a way as to close the corresponding cells, permitting them, however, by means of a notch or rounded aperture, to commvmicate with the sphenoidal sinuses. The apex, wliich is pointed and hard, is situated in a groove near the base of the pterygoid process, and is in part con- cealed by the posterior process of the palate bone. The lower as- pect forms part of the nasal fossa?; most commonly it furnishes an irregular papyraceous prolongation, which passes under the sphe- noid bone, and proceeds towards the rostrum,* directing itself to- ward that of the opposite side, to be united with the upper edge of the vomer. The outer aspect is open above, to correspond to the entrance of the sphenoidal sinuses. Below, it concurs with the palate bone, in forming the spheno-jmlatine foramen, which, in young subjects, does not in any way belong to the sphenoid bone. This aspect, moreover, frequently sends a thin lamina into the in- terior of the sinuses, and seems, as it were, to line its walls. Fre- quently also the floor of these cavities is entirely formed of the bones in question. 146. Structure, Articulations, Development. The sphenoidal turbinated bones, which, I believe, were first described by Bertin, are entirely compact and hollow, with the exception of the summit alone, which contains a little cellular tissue. They articulate with the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the pa- late bone and the vomer ; and are developed by a single point of ossification, generally after birth, although sometimes their rudi- ments are met with in fetuses of the seventh or eighth month. At the age of from twelve to fifteen, they unite first with the sphenoid bone, at a later period with the ethmoid. OF THE FRONTAL BONE. {Os Frontis). 147. F(mn. This bone is symmetrical, of a more than semi- circular form, convex and smooth anteriorly, concave posteriorly, and very unequal below. It is divided into the following parts : 148. Orbito-ethmoidal Aspect. This aspect, which is uneven and turned downwards, presents in the middle a broad quadrilateral notch, which receives the ethmoid bone, and is accordingly named the ethmoid notch (incisura ethmoidolis). Around this notch there are observed, anteriorly the nasal spine (spina nasalis) and * Ba.ii.1 (partli sphenoidaUs o.isis spJictio-occipitalis) pi iora ct inferiora versus laminam anilum, sivc rostrum cmittit, quod iiitcrdum c juiictis cornubtis sjihcnoidalibin oritur, &.C. Socmin. Dc Corp. Hum. fub. torn. i. p. 107.