806 ORGANS OF GENERATION. •wards. They then separate and expand upon the cord, and disap- pear entirely in the scrotum. This muscle supports the testicle, and impresses upon it slight motions from beneath upwards during the act of copulation. 2967- Of the Fibrous Coat. It forms a kind of small elongated bag, placed in each dartos, broad below, to contain the testicle and epididymis, and ascending under the appearance of a narrow sheath, around the spermatic vessels as far as the inguinal ring, between the pillars of which its fibres insinuate themselves. Inferiorly, some of its fibres are also intimately connected with those of the dartos. It is thin, transparent, and possessed of little solidity. The older anatomists confounded it with the serous coat, under the names of Tunica vaginalis^ or elijtroides.-f 2968. Of the Serous Coat {Perididymis). Like all the serous membranes, it forms a closed sac, reflected upon the organ which it envelopes, without however continuing it in its cavity. Suppos- ing it to arise from the lower part of the preceding fibrous bag, we find it covering the whole of its interior, embracing, especially anteriorly, the lower part of the spermatic cord, reflecting itself over the epididymis and testicle, and entirely covering the latter, excepting at its upper edge. Its outer surface is invested anteriorly by the flbrous coat; and, posteriorly, adheres strongly to the epi- didymis and tunica albuginea. Its imier surface is smooth, polished, and bedewed with a serous fluid. This membrane is almost as thin as the arachnoid. It is by it that the fluid, constituting the species of dropsy named hydrocele^ is secreted. In very young subjects, before the testicles have de- iscended into the scrotum, it is distinctly continuous with the peri- toneum. This circumstance accounts for the formation congeni- tal inguinal hernicB^ in which the intestine is in immediate con- tact with the testicle. OF THE TESTICLES. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2969. The Testicles {Testes, TesticuliX) are two glandular organs, lodged in the scrotum, and destined for the secretion of the semen. Their number appears in general invariable, there being no example recorded of the existence of three or four testicles. It is also probable that, when only one has been met with, the other has been contained .in the abdomen. Their size, in the adult is sufliciently known to every person ; one of them is frequently larger than the other ; the right testicle is also generally a little higher than the left; their form is that of an ovoid laterally com- pressed ; their great diameter is slightly obhque ; their conastence ■ Vagina, a sheath. f 'EXuTfav, vagina, tegumcnium. \ /^ilvfn,.