PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 50 dylokleum anteriusJ, wliich is sometimes double, gives exit to the hypoglossal nerve ; the other (foramen coHdylmdeuinposterius) is traversed by arteries and veins, and is sometimes wanting, a cir- cumstance never observed with respect to the first. Beyond the condyle are impressions, for the attachment of the great and small posterior recti and superior oblique muscles of the head, which are situated under a curved line called the inferior (linea semilunaris inferior), pretty distinct, and surmounted by other impressions, into which are inserted internally, the complexus, externally the splenius, and by a second curved line called the superior (linea semilunaris superior), to which are attached the occipitalis muscle, above ; internally and below, the trapezius; externally and below, the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, above the point of insertion of which is a smooth triangular surface, on which the occipitalis muscle hes. 163. Cerebral or anterior aspect. This is concave, unequal, and immediately connected with the dura mater. It presents in the middle, and from below upwards : 1°, a broad groove, called Ba- silar, inclined backwards, which sustains the annular protuberance ; 2°, the internal orifice of the great occipital hole, wider than the outer ; 3°, the Inner occipital Crest {crista occipitalis interna), bifurcated below, and giving attachment to the falx cerebelli; 4", the Internal occipital protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis in- terna), sometimes substituted by a depression, and in which ter- minates, 5°, a channel which descends on one side or the other, more commonly on the right, in which is lodged the termination of the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. 164. On either side, and in the same direction, there occurs a small channel on the edge of the basilar groove, which, together with a corresponding one on the posterior and lower surface of the inter- nal half of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, lodges the in- ferior petrous sinus of the dura mater. In the very margin of the I great occipital hole are the internal orifices of the anterior condy- loid foramina, covered by a bony eminence, on the outside of which is a portion of a canal directed inwards and backwards, which lodges the end of the lateral sinus of the dura mater, and contains the internal orifice of the posterior condyloid foramen. This por- tion of canal is surmounted by, 6°, the Inferior occipital Fossa, ( fossa cerebelli), which lodges the corresponding lobe of the cere- bellum, and which is itself surmounted, 7°, by the Lateral Trans- verse Groove {sulcus lateralis), which, proceeding from the inter- nal occipital protuberance, is continuous with the median groove, sometimes on both sides at once, but more commonly on the right side only, although the reverse has also been observed. It receives the commencement of the lateral sinus of the dura mater. Above it, is observed, 8°, the Superior Occipital Fossa, {fossa cercbralijs)^ smaller than the inferior, which receives the posterior lobes of the brain, and whose surface is marked with distmct mamillary emi- nences and digital impressions. 165. The Edges o£ the occipital bone form, by their junction,