PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 142 Other, and are bounded by a sharp edge on that by whicli they mutually apjiroach. They are in contact at their two extremities; but in the middle are separated by an interval, named the inter- osseous space, which is contracted above and below, and in the re- cent state, is closed by a membraniform ligament. Their two car- pal extremities are situated nearly at the same level; but the up- per extremity of the ulna rises about a twelfth part above that of the radius. The latter is in general situated in a plane a little an- terior to that of the ulna. At the elbow, it is the ulna that prin- cipally forms the joint; but at the wrist, the radius is the chief constituent, and thus draws along with it the hand in all its mo- tions. We have supposed the upper extremity hanging along the side of the body, with tlie back of the hand directed backwards. This position is what is termed supination (supinatio). The term pro- nation ipronatio), again, is applied to the position in which the back of the hand is directed outwards, while the thumb is turned for- wards. In pronation, the radius is in its natural place at the up- per extremity, while its lower turns upon the ulna ; and in this state the two bones cross each other. 486. The Hand (manus), or last part of the thoracic extremi- ties, varies in its dimensions in different individuals, and is more extended in height than in breadth. It is also broader than the fore-arm. Its anterior surface, which is concave, is named the palm (pahna s. vela) ; the posterior, which is convex, and a little inclined upon the fore-arm, is named the hack of the hand (dors%im manus). Its outer or radial edge f margo radialis), is thicker than the inner or ulnar (margo ulnarisJ. The hand is divided into the following parts. 487- The Carpus or Wrist {carpus), which commences the hand in the skeleton, and which is articulated to the fore-arm, being scarcely broader than it, is transversely oval: its height is inconsi- derable. It is flattened from before backwards, and slightly curved forwards. Its posterior surface is in general convex, and traversed by an unequal depression, which indicates the separation of the two rows of bones of which it is composed. Its anterior surface, which is concave, represents a sort of groove in which pass the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, together with nerves and ves- sels. The scaphoid bone and trapezium externally, and the pisi- form bone with the process of the os unciforme internally, form four eminences which limit this groove on the sides, and to which are attached the muscles of the thumb and little finger, as well as the anterior annular hgament of the wrist. The two surfaces of the carpus are, in general, very uneven for the insertion of ligaments. The posterior surface forms part of the back of the hand, and is covered by the extensor muscles of the fingers. 488. On the side next the fore-arm, the carpus presents a con- vexity more prolonged backwards than forwards, which is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and is articulated with the bones