ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEIlIOIl KXTREMITIliS. 2'27 fasciculus, formed of dense, compact, whitish fibres, directed ob- liquely iiiAvards and forwards, from the anterior part of the small tuberosity of the calcaneum, to the inferior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is frequently divided into two fasciculi, the one external and thin, {■Liyamentum planum, Weit.), the other internal and very strong, {Liyamentum teres, Weit.) Inferiorly, it is situated over the tendon of the tibiahs posticus, and above, forms a cavity with the calcaneum and scaphoid bone for receiving the head of the astragalus. ^. 750. E.vternal Ligament between the Calcaneum ajid os Sca- phoides, {Ligamentum calcaneoscaphoideum eaaternum). Like the preceding, it enters into the composition of the cavity which re- ceives the astragalus, at the inside of which it is chiefly visible. It is a very short fasciculus, which proceeds from the lower and outer part of the scaphoid bone to the fore and inner part of the calca- neum. Its fibres are very numerous. ARTICULATION OF THE SCAPHOID BONE WITH THE ASTRAGALUS. 751. This articulation is an enarthrosis, which is formed by the head of the astragalus entering into a cavity, which the posterior surface of the scaphoid bone, a portion of the calcaneum, and the two preceding ligaments, concur to form. The bony surfaces are covered with a cartilage, which is prolonged upon the astragalus much farther below than above. A single ligament and synovial capsule belong to this articulation, in which there are observed, moreover, two of those cellular masses which have been taken for synovial glands. These are very distinct. 752. Ligament between the Scaphoid Bone and Astragalus (Ligamentum astragalo-scaphoideum.) It arises from the upper part of the neck of the astragalus, and passes to the upper part of the scaphoid bone. It is a broad, thin, horizontal fasciculus, with parallel fibres, which are directed a little obliquely from within out- wards. It is covered by the tendons of the extensor digitprum, and sends some fibres to the cuneiform bones. 753. Synovial Membrane. Forming a cul-de-sac between the astragalus and calcaneum, it invests the head of the former of these bones, then the preceding ligament at its lower surface, the poste- rior surface of the scaphoid bone, and the two calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. It is strengthened externally by bundles of irregular fibres. ARTICULATION OF THE CAJ.CANEUM WITH THE CUBOID BONE. 754). This articulation is an arthrodia, which results from the contact of the anterior surface of the calcaneum, and the