174 rASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. fluid of a peculiar nature, which is named Synovia, * {Aximgia ar- ticularis, s. unguen articuiare). 570. This fluid (which is not, as was for a long time believed, produced by the mixture of the serosity of the membranes with the marrow of the bones), is whitish, viscid and transparent, of a sweetish and somewhat saline taste, and of a faint animal smell. If it be allowed to rest on being removed from the joint, it is con- verted into jelly. It mixes very well with water; its specific gra- vity is a little greater than that of water, in the proportion of 105 to 100 ; it lathers when agitated, and can be drawn out like the white of an egg, without being so unctuous, or so consistent as it is. The action of caloric, alcohol, and mineral acids, demonstrates the existence of albumen in it, which becomes concrete under their in- fluence. Latterly, M. Orfila has shown that flbrin is one of the constituent principles of synovia, which also contains mucus and free soda, the latter causing paper tinged with a vegetable blue to become green when dipped in it. M. Margueron has moreover discovered hydrochlorate and carbonate of soda in it; but all these substances are held in solution by a great quantity of water, which forms more than three-fourths of the weight of the fluid. Exposed to a moist air, the synovia loses its viscidity, becomes turbid, as- sumes a red or brown colour, and allows ammonia to be disengag- ed. By distillation it furnishes a charcoal, which, besides the two salts mentioned above, also contains phosphate of lime. There has also been observed in it an animal substance, which is said to be uric acid. The quantity of the synovia varies much in the different articu- lations, there being some which contain more than the others; but in general, it may be stated, that the greater the mobility of the part is, the more abundant is this fluid. 571. In all the moveable articulations there occur certain organs of a reddish colour, varying much in their volume, figure, and si- tuation. Sometimes there are several of them together in the same articulation ; frequently there is only one, which is of remarkable size, as in the ilio-femoral articulation; and it is to be observed, that the more motions an articulation has to perform, the more nu- merous, and the larger these bodies are. They are of various shapes, some being quadrangular, others semilunar, &c. Sometimes they are placed in particular cavities of the bones, sometimes merely at the circumference of the latter ; but, whatever be their position, it is always such that they are completely protected from pressure, when the bones move upon each other. Rosenmuller thought he perceived, in the tissue of these bodies, secretory follicles, which Clopton Havers named Glandulce vntci- • A word of obscure and recent origin, which Paracelsus appears to have firat (•ini)l()yod to designate a disease, or whicii may have been apjiiicd to tlic Ihiid in question on account of its bearing some distant resemblance to tlie albumen of an egg. f fliemoir read to (he Acad, des Sciences, in 1792.