ORGANS OF ClUCULATION. The second, third, and fourth, follow the last three interosseous spaces, giving twigs to the muscles which occupy them and to the lurabricales. Near the anterior extremity of the metatarsal bones, they enter above the transversus pedis, sending each over the back of the foot an anterior perforating twig^ which communicates with those of the metatarsal artery (2654). Lastly, between the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulations, these branches separate each into two large twigs, which are distributed to the corresponding edges of the toes, from the inner part of the little toe to the outer part of the second, and which have exactly the same distribution as the colla- teral arteries of the fingers (2490). OF THE VEINS, Or Vessels which carry the Blood from the different parts of the Body to the Heart. GENERAL HEMAKKS. 2676. The Veins* (Vence) are vessels destined to contain th6 dark blood, as the arteries contain the red. They occur in all ' parts of the body to which arteries are distributed; but they may be distinguished into two systems, which are entirely se- parated from each other. One of these systems, which is much more extensive than the other, commences in all the organs by very minute radicles, and ends at the heart by the venae cavtu. The other, which is confined to the cavity of the abdomen, com- mences in like manner by a great number of radicles in the diges- tive organs and spleen, and terminates in the liver by a single trunk which subdivides in its substance. This is called the System of the Vena PortcE. 2677- With respect to their general disposition, the veins may, in some measure, be compared to the arteries, but they differ es- sentially from them in number, situation, functions, and organiza- tion. 2678. Their form is cylindrical like that of the arteries, and their calibre remains the same so long as they do not receive branches ; but this cylindrical figure is interrupted from space to space by more or less remarkable contractions, owing to the presence of valves in their interior. 2679. Each artery is accompanied by at least one vein, which divides like it, has as many roots as it has branches, and whose size is much greater than that of the artery. There results from this that, at first sight, there seem to be as many veins as arteries; but " tl>Xi\/. of tlic Greeks.