738 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION, trunks becoming successively larger, and no longer exclusively oc- cupying the anfractuosities. Several of them, indeed, arc seen pass- ing transversely over the convolutions. The largest and most nu- merous are behind, and there are but very few before. These trunks are joined near the median line, by similar trunks arising from the plain surface of the hemispheres, and after this union, they leave the brain, are enveloped by particular sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, and by bending gain the lateral and in- ferior parts of the superior longitudinal sinus (1573), into which they open obliquely, as we have said. 2690. Vein of the Corjms Striatum. Its roots are extended at the surface of the corpus striatum. It commences near the an- terior extremity of the fornix, and turns obliquely outwards and backwards, in the groove which separates the optic thalamus from the corpus striatum, exactly following the course of the taenia semi- eircularis (1535) which covers it. It unites with the following. 2691. Vein of the Choroid Pleccus. Its roots are found in the choroid plexus and velum interpositum (1586). It winds over the optic thalamus, where it receives branches which descend from the fornix. Thus united, these two veins form, to the right and left, two trunks, which are called the VeiicB Galeni. 2692. VevicB Galeni. They direct themselves horizontally back- wards in the velum interpositum, placed in the canal which the pia mater forms by penetrating into the third ventricle of the brain, and externally of that which the arachnoid membrane presents at the same place. They issue from the brain towards the posterior curve of the corpus callosum, and immediately enter into the straight sinus of the dura mater by its anterior extremity (1575), crossing each other, so that the left goes to the right side of the sinus, and the right to the left side. 2693. Superior Cerebellar Veins. Arising from the substance of the cerebellum, and expanded over its whole upper surface, they unite into two or three trunks, which ascend obhquely forwards along the processus vermiformis superior (1508), bend upon themselves, leave the cerebellum, and penetrate into the straight sinus towards the middle of its length (1575). Some of these veins, which are smaller, than the others, open into the venas Galeni. 2694. Inferior Cerebellar Veins. Disposed nearly in the in- verse direction of the preceding, and at the inferior surface of the cerebellum, they unite on each side into two or three trunks, which 'bend over the great circumference of the organ, and ascend verti- cally to open into the corresponding lateral sinus, at considerable distances from each other (1577)- 2695. Lateral and Inferior Cerebral Veins. They are as nu- merous as the superior (2689), and have a similar disposition. United, on each side, into three or four trunks pretty near each other, and enveloped by sheaths of the arachnoid membrane, they leave the brain together, direct themselves obliquely forwards and