21 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 54. Characters of the Lumbar vertehrcB (oertebrce himborum). The lumbar vertebraj are remarkable for their great size. Their bodi/ has greater breadth than height, more extended in the trans- verse than in any other direction, the fourth and fifth thicker an- teriorly than posteriorly, flat above and below, without lateral fa- cets, concave from above downwards on its fore part, or rather bor- dered by two ridges, one above, the other below. The spinous pro- cess is very broad, nearly horizontal, transversely flattened, and quadrilateral, the lower margin thicker than the upper. The trans- verse processes, which are thin, long, and also horizontal, are placed on a plane anterior to the transverse processes of the dorsal verte- brae. The articular processes are very large and elongated ; the upper are much separated from each other, concave, oval, and turned inwards ; the loiver which are nearer each other, to be embraced be- tween the two upper ones of the vertebra beneath, are convex, oval, and directed outwards. The notches are very large, especially be- low ; the lamince thick and broad, but shorter than in the other regions; the fer^e&ra^/ommera broader than in the back, and of a triangular form. 55. Development of the Lumbar VertebrcB. The transverse processes of these vertebrae are pretty frequently substituted by an elongated and pointed epiphysis, which occasionally remains for a long time moveable upon the body of the bone, and thus bears more or less resemblance to a small rib.* The upper articular processes are all in like manner terminated by a lenticular epiphysis in children. PARTICULAU CHARACTRRS OF CERTAIN VERTEBRAE IN EACH REGION. A. In the cervical region, the following vertebrae are distin- guished by pecuUarities of form. 56. The Atlas or First Vertebra of the Neck, {Atlas sen prima colli vertebra,) has no resemblance to any other, for it has neither body nor spmous process, and merely presents the form of a ring Which is more or less thickened at the sides, and is formed ante- riorly by a small compressed arch, which does not occupy more tnan a hfth part of the circumference. It is convex and tubercu- lar anteriorly, concave in the opposite direction, where an oval ar- ticular surface IS observed, which connects it with the tooth-like process ot the second vertebra. This arch is thin above and be- rnm 1 . ^^u insertion to ligaments. Posteriorly, the ring is completed by a larger bony arch, which also gives attachment to S-*' fl^"" ^"^ ^elo^' and which is tubercular behind for the insertion of the posterior small recti muscles of the head. This arcn is rounded and thick behind, but anteriorly, where it joins • Morgagni. Beclard.