ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 223 are parallel, and longer above than below. This ligament is strength- ened, and covered in a great part by the tendon of the biceps flexor cruris. r i 728. Posterior Ligament. This is less marked, and much weaker than the anterior, and is composed of closer fibres; it presents tlie same arrangement behind the articulation, as the other ligament does at its fore part. It is covered by the popliteus, and some- times the synovial membrane of the knee joint extends to it. 729. Synovial Membrane. It lines the two airticular surfaces, the two ligaments, and some irregular fibres which are intermediate between the latter. Anteriorly and above, it is covered by the tendon of the biceps, and posteriorly and above, it is contiguous with the synovial membrane of the knee joint. MIDDLE ARTICULATION OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA- 730. Interosseous Ligament (Ligamenttim interosseum, sen memhruna interossea). The interval between the tibia and fibula is filled up by this ligament, which, like that of the fore-arm (669), has the form of a thin aponeurotic membrane, broader above than below, composed of oblique fibres, which pass from the outer edge of the tibia to a ridge, which runs along the inner surface of the fibula, and terminate below at the inner edge of that bone. Its anterior surface is covered by the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and peroneus tertius, and by the anterior tibial vessels; the muscles are attached to it by their fleshy fibres. Its posterior corresponds to the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor longus proprius pollicis, which are also in part at- tached to it. At the upper and outer part, this membrane pre- I sents a pretty large aperture for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels; at the lower part, it is continuous with the interosseous li- : gament of the inferior articulation, and presents a hole, which gives ; passage to a branch of the peroneal artery. There also occur in various points of its surface, and especially internally, a consider- : able number of holes for vascular ramifications. INFEKIOU AUTICULATION OF THE TIBIA WITH THE FIBULA. 731- This articulation is continuous with that of the ankle, from 1 which it borrows part of its synovial membrane, and is formed by 1 r. means of a convex surface of the fibvda, which is fitted to a con- { cave surface of the tibia. Both are invested with a thin cartilage, J ! but at their lower part only ; it is indeed only for an extent of two b ' or three lines that they are contiguous, and their cartilage is mere- ly a prolongation of that of the ankle joint. Four ligaments occur J' here. jj 732. Anterioi' Ligament {Ligamentum tihio-Jthulare ontiawi).