OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 061 deus internus, behind the inferior dentar nerve, and before the internal lateral ligament of the articulation of the lower jaw, as far as the aperture of the dentar canal (249), which it traverses along its whole extent, to make its appearance again at the mental fora- men. 2341. Before passing into the dentar canal, this artery gives oft' at first numerous ramifications to the pterygoideus internus and inferior dentar and lingual nerves. Close to the orifice of that canal, it furnishes a twig which descends forwards in a small groove on the inferior maxillary bone along the attachment of the mylo- hyoideus muscle. Accompanied by a filament of the inferior den- tar nerve (1669), this twig loses itself by a great number of sub- divisions in the mucous membrane of the mouth, and in the mylo- hyoideus muscle. 2342. The trunk of the artery itself then enters the canal, along ■with the inferior dentar nerve, sometimes, however, by a separate aperture. As it passes transversely beneath the alveoli, it sends off, from its upper side, twigs into these cavities, which are destined for the pulps of the teeth. Under the first small molar tooth it bifurcates; one of its branches, which is very small, emerges by the mental foramen, throws itself into the quadratus and triangu- laris muscles, and anastomoses with ramifications of the facial ar- tery ; the other branch which is larger, continues its course in the bone to the symphysis of the chin, and ^ives twigs to the pulps of the corresponding canine teeth and incisors. 2343. Frequently, at the very place where the dentar artery arises, the internal maxillary artery furnishes some isolated twigs. One of them ascends upon the temporal bone, behind the auricular canal, and is distributed to its walls, to the membrane of the tym- panum, and to the ceruminous follicles (2001). Another penetrates into the tympanum by the glenoid fissure, and gives ramifications to the mucous membrane of its walls, and to the external muscle of the malleus. Branches which arise from the Internal Maxillary Artery between the two Pterygoid Muscles. 2344. The Posterior deep temporal Artery. It arises a little after the preceding, and is even sometimes produced by it shortly after its commencement. Concealed at first between the temporalis and pterygoideus externus, it afterwards ascends obliquely under the first of these muscles, becomes vertical, creeps over the tempo- ral fossa, and divides into a great number of ramifications, which are distributed to the periosteum of that fossa, and to the fibres of the temporal muscle. These ramifications anastomose anteriorly with the anterior deep temporal artery, and externally with the middle and superficial temporal arteries.