PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 32 neither tuberosity nor groove, and has but one articulating surface. It therefore differs from the preceding, only in being extremely short, in wanting the angle entirely, and in having its anterior extremity attenuated. OF THE COSTAL CAUTILAGES. 92. These cartilages correspond in number to the ribs, which they prolong anteriorly, retaining the same form and direction. They are the longest and thickest in the body, and their dimen- sions vary according to the rank which they hold. Their length increases from the first to the seventh, and then diminishes pro- gressively to the last two, which are extremely short. Their breadth diminishes in a uniform manner from the first to the last. In the two upper cartilages, the breadth is generally equal in their whole extent; the rest become narrower as they advance toward the ster- num. The sixth, seventh, and eighth form the only exceptions to i this rule, for they touch each other at one part of their edges, where they are obviously enlarged. 93. The first cartilage, which might be considered as a cartila- ginous, anterior or sternal rib, descends a little; the second is ho- rizontal ; the third is slightly inclined upwards ; the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh, have at first the same direction as the rib, but quickly incline upwards to reach the sternum, this inclination being greater in the seventh than in the sixth, and in the sixth than in the fifth, &c. The cartilages of the first, three false ribs present this disposition still more evidently; but, in the two last, the direction is the same as that of the ribs themselves. 94. The middle part, or body of these cartilages, is slightly convex anteriorly, where it is covered by the great pectoral muscles, the obliquus externus and rectus of the abdomen, and moreover, in the first only, by the subclavius muscle and the costo-claviculai ligament which are inserted into it. Posteriorly, the body is z little concave. In the upper cartilages, it corresponds to the pleura and the triangular muscle of the sternum ; in the rest, tcj the transversalis muscle and the diaphragm. The iij^per edge if: concave, the lower covex, both give insertion to the internal inter- costal muscles. The great pectoral muscle also is inserted into th< upper edge of the sixth. The edges by which the sixth, seventh ; and eighth cartilages unite, present an oblong smooth siu-face at thi points of articulation, where there is a general enlargement of thei I substance. 95. The outer e.vtremity of all the costal cartilages presents small convex uneven surface, intimately connected by union ci substance, like the synarthrodial cartilages, with the osseous poi! tion of the rib. The inner extremity, in the true ribs only, i furnished with a convex, angular, and projecting articular surfaci which is received into the retiring angle formed by the cavities o