ORGANS OF SENSATION. 476 glosso-pharyngeal nerve, of the upper laryngeal twig, arid of the ■first cervical ganglion. They constitute with them the pharyn- geal plexus, whose irregular meshes, varying in number in difl- ferent individuals, send numerous and frequently very extended j ramifications over the whole pharynx. Some among them which, like the plexus itself, have a grayish tint, ascend in the constrictor ■superior, while others descend in the inferior. One or two follow the internal carotid artery, and anastomose with filaments of the cervical gangUons upon the common carotid artery. 1705. Superior Laryngeal Branch. Separated from the trunk heneath the preceding, and at a greater or less distance from it, this branch, which is thicker, more rounded and whiter, slips in the same manner behind the internal carotid artery, descends externally of the superior cervical ganglion, forms an arch around its inferior extremity, and divides into two secondary twigs, an outer and an inner, after anastomosing by some filaments with the superior cer- vical ganglion, and with the hypoglossal nerve, and after throwing some otliers into the pharyngeal plexus. The External Laryngeal Branch descends downwards and in- wards, arrives upon the sides of the larynx, gives off, to the sterno- thyroideus, hyo-thyroideus, constrictor pharyngis inferior and crico- thyroideus muscles, filaments, some of which penetrate into the larynx between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Some of these > ramifications are prolonged as far as the thyroid gland. The Internal Laryngeal Branch directs itself inwards behind the thyro-hyoideus muscle, between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, traverses the membrane which unites them and spreads out immediately into several radiating filaments, which become thick- er and softer in a very obvious manner as they separate from each other. The upper filaments ascend on the fore part of the epi- glottis and its gland, to which they are distributed, as well as to the membrane of the pharynx, sometimes anastomosing on the me- dian line with those of the opposite side. Several of them which creep at the surface of the epiglottis enter into the holes with which that fibro-cartilage is perforated, as Bichat has remarked; but they I eannot be followed upon the opposite surface. The Zoei?e?'filaments, i which are larger, are distributed in the mucous membranes of the I larynx and pharynx, and to the arytenoid gland and muscle. One I of them, which is less remarkable for its size than for its course, ■ descends between the thyroid cartilage and the thyro-arytenoideus muscle, then between the cartilage and the crico-arytenoideus later- alis, to throw itself entirely into the crico-thyroideus muscle. Some- times it is contained in a canal formed in the substance of the car- tilage. These ramifications never extend to the other muscles of the larynx, for which the inferior laryngeal nerve is reserved. Some of them anastomose, upon the mucous membrane with ascending filaments of the latter nerve. 1706. Beneath the laryngeal nerve, the pneumogastric nerves, descending along the neck, give off a filament which goes to unite