276 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. The outer, which is more curved than the rest, receives a pair of nerves for itself The inner alone proceeds directly forward; the others are oblique, especially the outer. 974. When these muscles act together, they draw the ball of the eye into the bottom of the orbit. By contracting successively in pairs, they impress upon it all the intermediate motions to those we have already mentioned, and make it perform a sort of cir- cumduction. OP THE OBLiaUUS SUPERIOR OCULI. 975. The ohliquus superior is a slender, rounded, fusiform mus- clie, much longer than any of the preceding, but thinner and nar- rower. It is situated at the upper and inner part of the orbit, and reflected upon itself, about the middle of its course. It arises behind, by short aponeuroses, and near the optic foramen, from the prolongation of the dura mater which lines the orbit. It is there confounded a little with the insertion of the levator palpebrte superioris. It then proceeds horizontally to the internal orbitar process, passing beneath the internal orbitar foramina. When ar- rived there, it degenerates into a slender and rounded tendon, sur- rounded by a kind of cellular sheath, which is soft and loose ; it is engaged in a cartilaginous ring, which converts the depression ob- served upon the frontal bone at this place into a canal, and whose two extremities are attached to the bone in a moveable manner by very short fibrous ligaments. In th-e interior of this pulley is a synovial capsule which is reflected over the tendon, and accom- panies it fo" some way, forming around it a very distinct and close sheath; the tendon is curved from above downwards, and from within outwards at an acute angle. It then proceeds backwards and downwards between the rectus superior and ball of the eye, and is converted into a radiated aponeurosis which continues to de- scend over the outer and posterior part of the eye-ball, where it terminates, near the entrance of the optic nerve, confound- ing a portion of its fibres with the sclerotic membrane. 976. This muscle is placed between the orbit, the optic nerve, the superior and internal recti muscles, and ball of the eye. 977- It carries the ball of the eye forwards and inwards, making it experience a rotatory motion, which directs the pupil downwards and inwards. . OF THE OBLiaUUS INFERIOR OCULI. 978. The ohliquus inferior, which is situated at the anterior and under part of the orbit,"is shorter and less rounded than the pre- cedin.":? muscle. It is attached to the inner and fore part of the or-