380 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the extensor longus, passing under them, and traversing the meta- tarsus obliquely. The first, on arriving at the articulation of the metatarsus with the phalanx of the great toe, becomes broader and is inserted at the upper part of the posterior extremity of its first phalanx. The other three pass over the upper surface of the first phalanges of the second, third, and fourth toes, and join the outer edge of the tendons of the extensor longus muscle to termi- nate along with them. (1401). 1408. The upper surface of this muscle is covered by a very thin aponeurotic lamina, extended over the back of the foot, and by the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum pedis. The inj'e- rior surface covers the tarsus, the metatarsus, the interossei dor- sales muscles, and the phalanges. 1409. It extends the first four toes, and directs them a little outwards. 1410. The muscles of the anterior part of the leg and dorsum of the foot are dissected, first by removing the skin from the apo- neurosis covering them, and then this latter from their surfaces. The muscles of the leg are now to be separated from each other, and the tendons of the extensor communis longus digitorum remo- ved from the back of the foot, to show the extensor brevis. Pei'oneal Region. OF THE I'EEONEUS LONGUS. , 1411. The Peroneus longus is placed at the outer part of the leg, and under the sole of the foot. It is very long and narrow, fleshy and of the form of a triangular prism above, terminated be- low by a slender tendon. It arises from the upper part of the ti- bial aponeurosis, the upper third of the outer surface of the fibula, a small part of the tibia, two aponeurotic partitions which are placed between it and the soleus and flexor longus pollicis, on the one hand, and the extensor communis digitorum on the other. It descends at first a little obliquely backwards, enlarging in the mid- dle, and is terminated by a tendon which commences very high upon its outer and anterior side, and only becomes free about two thirds down the leg. This tendon continues to run along the fibula, directing itself however a little backwards, and behind the external malleolus enters a groove, common to it with that of the peroneus brevis, in which it is kept down by a ligamentous bridle: the synovial capsule which it contains is common to the two tendons, to the ligamentous bridle itself, the inner surface of the external lateral ligament (738), and the groove of the fibula. Beneath the malleolus it quits the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and passes into a groove on the outer surface of the calcaneum, where it is again kept down by a particular fibrous sheath, but lined by the same synovial membrane, wliich forms a cul-de-sac to^