ORGANS OF GENERATION. vagina; but such is its tenuity, tlint many anatomists doubt its existence, and its intimate adherence to the tissue of the organ still adds to this doubt. It sends into the Fallopian tubes two prolongations which we shall subsequently examine. Its colour is white, very slightly tinged with red; this latter tint is especially manifest some days before and during menstruation. It is covered with a great number of very fine villosities, and presents the ori- fices of some mucous crypts, which are more abundant towards the neck than elsewhere. Frequently also these crypts dilate in that place, and assume the form of small semitransparent vesicles pro- jecting into the interior of the uterus. An old author, Naboth, took them for ova and for this reason these small bodies are some- times designated by the name of Ouula of Naboth* No excretory ducts have as yet been discovered for these vesicles. 3044. Proper Tiss7ie. It occupies the interval which separates the peritoneum from the mucous membrane. Its thickness is great and amounts to five or six lines. It is of a dense and close texture, and yields great resistance to the knife. It is elastic and of a gray- ish white colour. Its adhesion to the mucous membrane is very great. Its intimate nature is yet little known. It is traversed by a very great number of blood vessels. It is impossible to distin- guish in any part of its extent, the disposition of the fibres of which it is composed. Towards the neck, it is denser and less gray than in the walls of the body. It would appear, that during gestation, this tissue becomes truly muscular. 3045. The arteries of the uterus come from the spermatic and hypogastric ; their principal branches are placed beneath the pe- ritoneum ; they are very flexuous, and anastomose frequently to- gether. Its veins follow the same course, but are still more flexu- ous, and form cavities in its walls which become very large during gestation, and are called Uterine Sinuses. Its nerves come from the sciatic and hypogastric plexuses. Its lymphatics arc very nu- merous, and during gestation acquire enormous dimensions. OF THE FOLDS OF THE PERITONEUM NAMED THE BROAD LIGAMENTS. 3046. These folds, improperly called ligaments, are placed in the excavation of the pelvis, and form with the uterus and upper part of the vagina a kind of transverse septum which divides that cavity into two parts, an anterior for the bladder, and a poste- rior for the rectum. They are continuous by the inner edge with the peritoneum which invests the two surfaces of the uterus, and externally are expanded upon the sides of the excavation of the pelvis. They are formed of two laminie placed back to back, in the interval of which is contained cellular tissue rarely containing " is-dhoth, Dt 'tlci 'dUukmitlkiutii, I/cips^ick, 1707.