532 ORGANS Ol- SENSATION. OF THE SUPEllIOR CAKDIAC NERVES. (Nervi cardiaci superjiciales.) 1893. That of the right side is formed by five or six filaments, ■which come from the anterior and inferior side of the first cervical gangUon. It is almost immediately strengthened by some small twigs, from the cord by which the ganglion communicates with the second (1876), and sends some filaments to the external carotid plexus. All these roots afterwards unite into a single very slender trunk, which descends vertically along the neck, by the side of the trachea and thyroid body, between the common carotid artery and the cord of communication of the cervical ganglia. This nerve sends some filaments to the lower part of the pharyn- geal plexus, and to the thyroid body. The latter anastomose with those of the recurrent nerve. It also communicates by one or two other filaments with the pneumo-gastric nerve. In general, all these ramifications have very little solidity, and some anatomists have given them the name of Soft Nerves (jiervi molles). Oppo- site the middle cervical ganglion, it frequently presents a solution of continuity itself firom the eft'ect of a particular ganglion, which is by no means constant in its occurrence. There also, it furnishes internally a twig of remarkable size, which passes behind the caro- tid artery, and throws itself into the plexus of the inferior thyroid artery (1884), after anastomising upon the carotid with a filament of the pneumo-gastric nerve. There also comes off from it another fila- ment at the same point, which communicates with the plexus of the descendens noni, (1722.) Some others are distributed to the muscles of the inferior hyoid region, the thyroid body, and the trachea. The superior cardiac nerve then passes ovitwards, crosses pos- teriorly the direction of the middle cardiac nerve, penetrates into the thorax behind the subclavian vein, opposite the bifurcation of the arteria innominata, and presently divides into several twigs which associate themselves with filaments of the inferior cervical ganglion and corresponding recurrent nerve. Sometimes also, it unites in part with the middle cardiac nerve. 1894. The superior cardiac nerve of the left side has a similar origin to that of the right side, and presents the same disposition in the greater part of its extent. But it descends between the com- mon carotid and subclavian arteries, near the origin of which it se- parates into a great number of filaments, which pass over the aorta to unite with those of the inferior cardiac nerve, or of the cardiac, filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve (1707)- Some of them, slip- ping behind the aorta, join the cardiac ganglion.