MUSCLES 0¥ THE INFEllIOU EXTREMITIES. 379 ti former. The outer is confounded above with the peroneus longus, ( at the middle with the peroneus brevis, and below with the pcro- D neus tertius. 1403. It extends the three phalanges of the last four toes, and t bends the foot on the leg, or the leg on the foot. OF THE PERONEUS TERTIUS. - 1404. This muscle does not exist in all subjects. It is situated ; at the anterior and inferior part of the leg, and is of an elongated i form, thin and compressed. It arises from the lower third of the I fore part of the fibula, the interosseous ligament, and an aponeu- I rotic partition which separates it from the peroneus brevis. From thence it descends a little inwards, confounded in a great part of : its extent with the preceding muscle, and degenerates into a ten- don which lies at first upon its anterior surface, then becoming isolated, passes under the annular ligament of the tarsus, in the same groove with those of the extensor communis, turns outwards on the back of the foot, crosses the course of the extensor brevis digitorum pedis, becomes broader, and is converted into an apon- eurosis which is inserted at the outer edge of the posterior extre- mity of the fifth metatarsal bone, and into the neighbouring part of its body, sending a prolongation to the outer tendon of the pre- ceding muscle. 1405. The outer surface of this muscle, which is directed a little forwards, is covered by the aponeurosis of the leg; the inner is confounded with the extensor communis digitorum. It covers in the foot the extensor brevis digitorum pedis and the first metatar- sal bone. Its posterior edge is applied upon the fibula and inter- osseus ligament, and is vmited with the peroneus brevis. 1406. It bends the foot upon the leg, raising its outer edge. It may also bend the leg on the foot. Dorsal Region of the Foot. OF THE EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM PEDIS. ,; 1407. This is a broad flat muscle, thin and fleshy behind, ter- minated anteriorly by four tendons. It arises from the upper sur- face of the calcaneum, before the groove which lodges the tendon of the peroneus brevis, from the external ligament of the calca- neum and astragalus (746), and from the annular ligament of the tarsus (1326), proceeds forwards and inwards, increasing in breadth, and soon divides into four portions, the two inner of which arc larger and shorter. Each of these portions is terminated by a thm and flat tendon, at first concealed among the fleshy fibres, but afterwards isolated. These tendons cross the direction of those of