DEEP OBTUllATOIi, &C. LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 7^5- DEEP OBTURATOK, ISCHIATIC, GENITAL, &C., LYMPHATIC VESSELS. ' 2806. Obturator Lymphatics. They arise from the adductor muscles and neighbouring parts, and ascend along with the obtur- ator artery, through the obturator foramen, to end in the hypo- gastric ganglia. 2807. Ischiatic Lymphatics. Their roots are distributed in the gemelli, pyriformis, quadratus and glutjEus maximus muscles. They follow the ischiatic artery, and terminate within the pelvis in the hypogastric ganglia. 2808. Glutceal Lymphatics. They commence in the three glu- tei muscles, pass along with the glutaeal artery through the great sciatic notch, enter within the pelvis, and end in the hypogastric gangha, along with some small vessels arising deeply from the anus and perinaeum. 2809- Deep Lymphatics of the Penis and Clitoris. They follow the course of the internal pudic artery (2591), and terminate in the hypogastric ganglia. 2810. Ljymphatics of the Testicle. They are very numerous and of great size in the adult. Arising from the coats and sub- stance of the testicle and epididymis, they unite upon the sperma- tic cord into a number of branches, varying from six to twelve, which ascend along with it, anastomosing very little, towards the inguinal ring, through which they pass to follow the spermatic ar- tery and terminate in the lumbar ganglia. 2811. Lymphatics of the Prostate Gland and Vesiculce Semi- nales. They unite in part with those of the bladder, and throw themselves into the hypogastric ganglia. 2812. Lymphatics of the Uterus. They are of large size at the period of gestation, but appear very small during the empty state of the uterus. They arise from the surface, or in the sub- stance of that organ, and unite with those which come from the vagina, to terminate in the hypogastric ganglia. The highest pro- long themselves upon the broad ligament, and unite with those of the ovarium. The latter are very numerous, and form a kind of plexus. They ascend together, along with the spermatic vessels, toward the lumbar ganglia. LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE URINAllY OBGANS. 2813. Lymphatics of the Bladder. They arise from the whole extent of that organ, follow the course of its vessels, and open into the hypogastric gangha. 2814. Lytnphatics of the Kidneys. They are generally very small, and may be divided into superficial and deep. Their roots anastomose in the tissue of the organ, and their trunks unite to-