OF THE SESAMOID BONES. 1G3 and tliird. In the great toe, the first phalanx is connected di- rectly with the last. OF THE SESAMOID BONKS. * 539. The Sesamoid Bones (Ossa Sesamoidea), are small irre- o-ular bodies, varying in number, and irregular in their occurrence, but which generally exist more numerously in the male than in the female, and which are met with in certain joints of the fingers and toes. They vary much in their form, and are composed of spongy tissue covered by a slight layer of compact tissue. They do not exist in children, and are only developed in advanced age in the tendons which surround the joint to which they belong. 540. In the hand, two are commonly met with at the anterior part of the first joint of the thumb, sometimes one or two at the corresponding joint of the fore-finger, another at that of the little finger, and one at the second joint of the thumb. It is seldom that they are observed in any of the other joints, although Mor- gagni-j- mentions such an occurrence. The two first of the thumb are large, of an oblong form, convex anteriorly, covered with car- tilage posteriorly, and lodged in a groove of the inferior extremity of the first metacarpal bone : sometimes one of them is larger than the other. They are enveloped by the fibres of the tendon of the flexor brevis muscle, while the tendon of the flexor longus passes between them. 541. In the foot there are in like manner three for the great toe. Their form is the same as those of the thumb. One is also pretty frequently found at the first joint of the second toe, and another at that of the fifth. 542. Sesamoid bones also make their appearance in other parts of the body. Thus there is pretty frequently one at the posterior part of each condyle of the femur. In old people, another very fi-equently occurs beneath the os cuboides, in the tendon of the peroneus longus. Lastly, the tendon of the tibialis anticus also contains one, near its insertion into the navicular bone. OF THE INFEUIOH ISXTllEMITIES CONSIDERED IN GENERAL WITH REFEKENCE TO THEIR BONES. 543. The inferior extremities are formed of a series of bones, which represents a sort of column resting upon a broad basis, to which it transmits the whole weight of the body. This column is as It were broken in its middle part; for it approaches that of the opposite side as far as the knee, after which it descends vertically, * '^>i'rait»%iVi«, oh formavi Ksmni, ffianis fere simikvi. t Aclvcisar. Aiuit. ii. iiiiiinad. xxx. p. Gl.