OF THE PNEUMO-OASTUIC NERVES. 4.77 "fflth the cervical branch of the hypoglossal nerve, another which' joins the second cervical pair, and two or three grayish and delicate filaments which go to the internal carotid artery, and lose them- selves in its Avails when it separates from the external. 1707. Cardiac Twigs. The pneumogastric nerves constantly furnish twigs of a larger size, and differently distributed to the right and left, which seem destined to join the nervous plexus of the heart. The nerve of the right side gives off its twigs at about an inch above the origin of the corresponding carotid artery, to which they are attached, descending externally and prolonging themselves over the arteria innominata, to be finally lost in the cardiac fila- ments of the inferior cervical ganglion. The upper is more con- stant and larger than the inferior twigs, of which there are two or three. The nerve of the left side commonly sends off only a single twig, which descends along the carotid artery, spreads out upon the arch , of the aorta, and loses itself in the neighbouring cardiac plexus. It seldom furnishes any other twig. 1708. Inferior or Recurrent Laryngeal Branches. These branches present considerable differences in the two sides. They arise from the trunk of the pneumogastric nerve, in the interior of the thorax, and ascend to be distributed to the neck. That of the right side comes off opposite the inferior edge of the sub-clavian artery, proceeds backwards and inwards, bends up- wards behind that artery in such a manner as to embrace it, places itself behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, is applied upon the side of the trachea, occupies the groove which se- parates it from the oesophagus, and arrives at the larynx. At its commencement, the inferior laryngeal nerve gives off two or three filaments, which unite with the cardiac filament of the pneumogas- tric trunk and with those of the inferior cervical ganglion, and form with them a plexus between the subclavian artery and the trachea. A Uttle higher, it furnishes some others of variable number, which descend upon the fore part of the trachea, throw themselves in part into the plexus formed by the preceding filaments, and ac- company in part the right pulmonary arteries. Some of their ra- mifications lose themselves in the anterior cardiac plexus. Along •the trachea, there come off some others which are distributed in the walls of the oesophagus, where they anastomose with those of the opposite side and with those of the cervical ganglia, or are spread out at the upper and superficial part of the thyroid gland, or which, perforating the posterior membrane of the trachea, ramify upon the internal surface of that canal, supplying its mu- cous crypts. But at the inferior part of the larynx, the recurrent nerve send.s filaments to the constrictor pharyngis inferior, under which it glides, and divides into two or three secondary twigs. One ot them furnishes subdivisions to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, behind the larynx ; the others give filaments to the pos- terior and lateral crico-arytenoidei, and passing through the crico-