ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 646 and compact coat, which seems to be formed of the surrounding cellular tissue, in a state of condensation. It is commonly named the Cellular Coat. But it is the coat which is placed between these two that proper- ly forms the arteries. It is dense, close, thick in proportion to the calibre of the trunks, yellowish, sometimes grayish, composed of very distinct fibres, adhering to each other, easily separable how- ever, disposed in concentric layers, nearly circular, and intimately united externally to the cellular coat, but not so much so to the internal membrane. None of these fibres follow a longitudinal di- rection. They do not at all appear to be muscular, but form what is called the Elastic Tissue (16, F, c). 2280. The walls of the arteries receive minute arteries which form very complicated net-Works at their surface, and to which suc- ceed less apparent venules, which go to the neighboviring trunks. No lymphatics have yet been traced in them. Their nerves are pretty distinct, and come especially from the system of the ganglia. OF THE AllTEMIES IN PARTICULAR. OF THE AOIITA.* 2281. The Aorta, arises from the base of the left ventricle (2268) ; but it is only really connected with the heart by the inner membrane of that ventricle, which prolongs itself into its interior and there forms three semilunar valves. The proper membrane or coat of the artery is in no way continuous with the fleshy iibres of the heart; but it commences by three semicircular festoons, which correspond to each of the semilunar valves, and leave between them and the muscvilar fibres an interval of two or three lines, so that they give rise to small triangular spaces in the places where their extremities approach each other. 2282. At its origin, the aorta is concealed by the pulmonary ar- terv, which leaves it at the end of a few lines, because the aorta im- mediately after its origin directs itself upwards and to the right. It presently ascends before the vertebral column, describing a curve, which extends as far as opposite the fourth or fifth dorsal verte- bra. It there entirely disengages itself from the pericardium, and then continues to bend, directing itself a little backwards and to the left almost transversely to opposite the second dorsal vertebra, and above the left branch of the pulmonary artery ; this second curve is called the Arch of the Aorta, (Arcus Jorfcp). In sub- jects advanced in age, it presents at its commencement a certain enlargement, which appears owing to the force of the blood, called by some authors the Great S/nvs of the Aorta. It ends on the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra, from which point • 'Ao^Tti of the Greeks.