ORGANS OF SENSATION. 500 extremity of the radius, and arrives at the posterior surface of tlu? fore-arm, divided into several twigs varying as to their number and origin. Some of these, the posterior, lose themselves by being more or less prolonged downwards, in the supinator brevis, exten- sor carpi ulnaris, and extensor muscles of the fingers and index. The anterior belong to the muscles of the deep and posterior layer of the fore-arm. One of them, which is larger and longer than the others, descends behind the interosseous ligament, gives some ramifications to the neighbouring muscles, passes over the wrist- joint under the posterior annular ligament of the carpus, and di- vides on the back of the hand into a great number of filaments, which lose themselves in the interossei muscles and cellular tissue. OP THE eiRCUMFLEX NERVE. {Nervus Axillaris). 1781. Arising from the inner and back part of the brachial plexus, in certain subjects, it appears to be but a branch of the radial nerve, but in general, is particularly produced by the last two cervical nerves and the first dorsal. Immediately after its origin it descends before the subscapulars muscle, which receives a considerable twig from it, then dives between the two teretes muscles, turns from before backwards and from within outwards between the capsule of the shoulder joint and the long portion ef the triceps extensor, and at length gains the posterior edge of the inner surface of the deltoid muscle, after giving some filaments to the teres minor. 1782. Opposite the triceps extensor muscle, this nerve divides into two branches. The upper, which is shorter, sends a twig into the infra-spinatus, and then loses itself in the deltoid muscle, after running for some extent upon its internal surface. The other, or inferior, entirely loses itself m the deltoid muscle, and terminates near its anterior edge and insertion into the humerus. OF THE DORSAL NERVES. (Nervi Dorsales). 1783. They arise, like the cervical nerves (1725), from the !»- teral parts of the spinal marrow, by two distinct roots, an anterior or smaller, and a posterior or larger, which are separated by the li- garaentum dentatum, and directed so much the more obliquely downwards the lower they are ; these roots unite into a single trunk beyond the intervertebral hole and beyond the ganglion of the posterior root. In a word, the greatest similarity exists be- tween them and the cervical nerves. They are twelve in number