63 UPPKR MAXILLARY LONE. 205. Anteriorly, between the two aspects of the bono, there is ^observed a free edge deeply concave at its upper part, which forms a portion of the anterior aperture of the nasal fossai. At its lower part it is prominent, and articulates with the bone of the opposite . side, and in its middle presents an eminence which forms the half of the Anterior Nasal Spine. This edge unites above with that which terminates anteriorly the nasal process, forming a more or iless projecting angle with it. 206. Lastly, at the lower part, the two aspects of the bone are - separated from each other by the Alveolar Process (Processus Alveolaris). This is thick, less so however before than behind, . where the Buccinator muscle is inserted; it describes in its course a portion of a parabola, and is hollowed by deep conical cavities : for the teeth, named Alveoli or Sockets: the form and dimensions of these alveoli Vary according to the kind of teeth which they lodge; and when the teeth have several roots, they are divided I into a similar number of subordinate cavities by particular septa. 1 The alveolus of the first incisor is deeper and broader than that of ! the second, but much less so than that of the canine tooth, which ■is generally flattened, and ends in a very sharp point. Those of the small molares are not so deep ; the most variable is the last, which is commonly divided into three cavities, sometimes into two, and in some cases presents only one. * Each maxillary bone has generally eight of these alveoli, the partitions of which are formed of a cellular tissue, which is found to be less and less compact pos- teriorly. Externally, the alveolar process presents prominences and depressions corresponding to the alveoK and their partitions : on the inside, it is perforated with a great number of small holes which transmit vessels to the walls of these cavities. 207. Structure. The upper maxillary bone is cellular only to- ward its different processes, and in the alveolar margin. It is hol- low, and as it were inflated in nearly its whole extent, on account of the presence of the sinus which is in its interior. 208. Articulations. The upper maxillary bone is articulated to the ethmoid, the frontal, the nasal, the lachrymal, and the pa- late, the inferior turbinated bones, the vomer, the opposite maxil- l;iry bone, the teeth of the upper jaw, and sometimes the sphenoid bone, by the different points mentioned above. 209. Development. The development of this bone takes place m a very complicated manner. At first there appear some osseous nuclei, which commence the formation of the upper alveolar arch, ihen the body of the bone is formed by one or two points of ossi- ncation; in the latter case, there occurs in the foetus a small dis- tinct osseous piece, which seems analogous to the inter-maxillary Done of quadrupeds. The sinus is only developed with age, and sometimes, though rarely, is not formed at all. f I'hc palatine * Interdum deficit. Socmm. Dc Corp. Hum. Fah. torn. i. p. H,7. T Auoigagui (Adv. Anat. i. p. 38. Adv. vi. p. IIG) metitious an cxfimplo of this.