OF THE SPEIIMATIC AIlTElllES. OF THE SPERMATIC ARTERIES. {Art. SpermaticcB.) 2551. One on each side, very slender and of great length, they ccome off from the anterior or lateral parts of the aorta, and > sometimes from the renal arteries. They do not always both I come off fi*om the aorta at the same level, but pretty frequently . one of them is higher than the other. In all cases, however, ; forming with it a very acute angle below, they descend almost \ vertically, and only a Uttle outwards, over the sides of the verte- ! bral column, before the psoae muscles and ureters, whose direc- ition they cross, and behind the peritoneum. The right passes, I moreover, backwards, or before the vena cava inferior. Their (.course is extremely flexuous. They are presently after united tto the spermatic veins, and distributed very differently in the rmale and in the female ; after previously giving off, in either sex, wery small twigs to the fat and lymphatic ganglia of the sur- : rounding parts, as well as to the walls of the ureters and to the I peritoneum. 2552. In the Male, the spermatic artery, placed beside the \ vas deferens, issues by the inguinal ring, and is distributed to the t testicles, giving off by the way ramifications to the different parts ^ which constitute the spermatic cord. At its termination, it divides : into two biuidles of twigs, one of which goes to the epididymis, the other to the testicle. The first penetrate by the head of the epi- i didymis, are expanded in that body, and give some ramifications tto the tunica albuginea and the substance of the testicle. The others penetrate into the testicle by its upper edge, and give to the : tunica albuginea a great quantity of ramifications, which afterwards I lose themselves upon the fibrous septa lying between the masses of I the spermatic ducts. 2553. I71 the Female, after crossing the edge of the psoas mus- c de, the spermatic artery dives into the pelvis and goes to the ovary. ! Most of its twigs lose themselves in the tissue of that organ. The i others are distributed in the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, ; and on the sides of the uterus, where they anastomose with the I uterine arteries. OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES. {Art. Lumbales.) 2554'. They are commonly four on each side. Five, however, ^arc not unfrcqucntly met with, and sometimes only three. Their ■ size is always greater than that of the intercostal arteries. They ( come off as much from the posterior part as from the sides of tlic