34. PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. downwards, and from behind forwards. In the middle, may be ob- served the anterior surface of the sternum and the xiphoid carti- lage ; on the sides are seen the sterno-costal cartilages, which become longer the lower they .are situated, and circumscribe spaces filled up by the intercostal muscles. The two first of these spaces are broad; the rest gradually contract; but the two last resume a certain degree of breadth. 101. Posteriorly^ this surface presents the two vertebral grooves, separated by the spinous processes, filled up by numerous mus- cles, and limited on the outside by the series of dorsal transverse processes, articulated with the tuberosities of the ribs. Still far- ther outwards, is a series of surfaces belonging to the ribs ; and, lastly, a line interrujjted from one rib to another by the intercos- tal spaces, having an inclination downwards and outwards, and formed by the angles of the ribs. The obliquity of this line is caused by the circumstance that the angles are more distant from the tuberosities in the lower ribs than in the upper. 102. On the sides,'t\\e outer surface of the chest is convex, es- pecially at the back part, and presents the intervals, by which the ribs are separated from each other. These intervals, from being short and broad above, diminish in breadth and increase in length, till we arrive at the one between the seventh and eighth ribs. Af- ter this they again diminish in length, to the last, which is very short. All these intercostal spaces are broader before than behind, and are occupied by muscles of the sanie name. 103. Inner Sur face of the Thorax. This surface, like the outer, presents anteriorly the posterior surface of the sternum in the middle, and the sterno-costal cartilages laterally. In this direc- tion, it corresponds to the anterior mediastinum, and a little on the left, to the heart. Behind, it presents the bodies of the dor- sal vertebrae, which by protruding seem to form a sort of imperfect partition, concave in the vertical direction, and contracting much the antero-posterior diameter of the cavity; on either side of the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs, by being much prolonged backwards, form a considerable elongated cavity, which is contracted above, broad beneath, and deeper in the middle. This excavation receives the posterior part of the lungs. Laterally, the inner surface of the thorax is concave, and formed by the ribs and intercostal spaces, as on the outside. Here it is contiguous with the lungs. In general, the pleurae line almost everywhere the internal sur- face of the thoracic cavity. 104. The upper circumference of the thorax, which is usually called its summit, is small, transversely oval, and oblique in a di- rection from above downwards, and from behind forwards. It is constituted posteriorly, by the vertebral column; anteriorly, by the sternum ; on the sides, by the inner edge of the first rib. It is traversed by the trachea, the oesophagus, the arteries, veins, and nerves, which go from the chest to tlie arms and head, or which