310 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. the long portion of the triceps. Farther on, it covers the capsule of the shoulder joint. 1129. When the arm is separated from the body, the subscapu- laris draws it toward it. When in its natural position, it can turn it inwards, and when raised, depresses it. It also strengthens the articulation. 1130. Dissection of the Muscles of the Shoulder. The deltoid being the most superficial, must be exposed first; for this purpose, separate tlie extremity from the trunk, and bend the arm towards the axillary margin of the scapula ; make an incision through the skin from the upper part of the shoulder to the outer and middle part of the arm, and dissect off the skin and cellular tissue towards the anterior and posterior margins of the muscle. When examined, the attachments of the deltoid are to be re- moved from the spine of the scapula, the clavicle cut through at its middle, the conoid and trapezoid ligaments divided, and the acromion, where it unites with the spine of the scapula, sawn through : aE these parts, the deltoid, the acromion, and the outer half of the clavicle, are now to be thrown downwards, when, The supra-spinatus may be dissected by removing the tra- pezius from the upper lip of the spine of the scapula, if still adhe- rent ; The infra-spinatus and teres minor, by dissecting off, in the di- rection of their fibres, the aponeurosis which covers them; The teres major, by removing that part of the latissimus dorsi and skin with which its posterior surface (1124) is connected ; and The subscapularis, by removing from it the parts with whicli it is in connexion by its anterior surface (1128). MUSCLES OF THE ARM. OF THE CORACO-BUACHIALIS. 1131. This muscle is long, thin, flat, and narrow, especially ai its extremities, and is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises from the summit of the coracoid process, betweer 1 the short head of the biceps and the pectoralis minor, with whicl it is united; this origin takes place by means of an aponeurosis which also belongs to the short portion of the biceps, is extendec before their common fibres, then interposed between the tw( muscles, and separates into two portions, one for each of them. I is from the posterior surface of this aponeurosis that the fleshy fi bres arise. In their upper third they are incorporated with thos' 1 of the biceps, but afterwards separated, and descend obliquel; backwards and outwards, forming a bundle which increases in siz to its middle part. W^ien arrived near the humerus, they termi natc in an aponeurosis, at first concealed among them, then ap pearing externally, move distinct within and above, than below an