ACTIVE OIIGANS OF LOCO.AJOTION. 2,54. strongly interlaced with the fleshy fibres, and much more distinct below than above ; they arc frequently confounded with those of the tranversalis colli. It also frequently arises, by other small ten- dons, from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and firi3t two dorsal vertebra;. To all th cse tendons succeed the fleshy fibres, which, from being at first disposed in i.solated fasciculi, are soon intimately incorporat- ed. Those which come from the third, fourth, and fifth transverse ]>rocesses of the back, form a separate band, which ascends ob- liquely inwards, and terminates anteriorly by a small tendon, broader at its extremities than in the middle, which occupies the middle third of the inner edge of the muscle, and sends from its upper part other fleshy fibres which ascend to the occipital bone. I'he fleshy fibres which proceed from the transverse processes of the neck and the two first of the back, ascend less obliquely, and are arrested by an aponeurotic intersection in the form of the letter V, more distinct internally than externally, and directed transversely, which occurs about the middle of the muscle and oc- cupies its whole breadth. From the upper edge of this intersec- tion proceed other fleshy fibres which ascend a little inwards, and are attached to the inner part of the impression which is observed between the two curved lines of the occipital bone, by aponeuroses prolonged very far among the fleshy fibres. 851. The posterior surface of the complexus, which is turned a little outwards, is covered successively from above downwards, by the trapezius, splenius, trachelo-mastoideus, transversalis colli, and longissimus dorsi. The anterior surface is applied, from below upwards, upon a part of the semi-spinalis colli, upon the deep cer- vical artery, the posterior branches of the cervical nerves, and the posterior recti and obliqui of the head. Its mner edge is separated inferiorly to a distance from that of the opposite muscle, but approaches it as it ascends, and from about the middle of the neck is only separated by a line of cclkdar tissue. The aider edge is free from the second vertebra to the occipital bone. 852. This muscle prevents the head from being bent, or raises it when it has been bent. When it acts by itself, it extends the head, inclining it to its own side, and turning it by rotation to the opposite side. When the two act together, the head is directly extended. 853. When the trapezius is raised, the upper part of this muscle is seen between the splenii by their separation from each other at the third cervical vertebra. This upper part may serve as a guide for exposing the rest of the muscle, removing successively from above downwards the splenius, the sacro-lumbalis, the longissimus dorsi, the traiosversalis colli and trachelo-mastoideus. The preceding mUsclcs being removed, the fourth layer is brought into view.