288 ACTlVi: ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. fibres; but always terminate them, for a muscle is never fixed to a bone ■without their assistance, or that of aponeuroses. In most cases the tendons have a rounded cylindrical form ; there are some also which are flat, radiated, bifurcated, digitated, perforated or perforating, &c. Some proceed in a straight line; others are reflected, and deviate more or less from their original direction. They ai-e all covered with a loose cellular tissue, which allows them to slide easily over the neighbouring parts, or over each other. This sliding is even not unfrequently favoured by a particular synovial membrane, or by a cartilage developed on the surface of the bone. Their organization is always the same. They are composed of very close, line, white, glistening longitudinal fibres, not interlaced, but placed parallel to each other, incapable of being elongated, but susceptible of being extended into membranes. The resistance of these fibres is considerable; they support enormous weights with- out breaking, and their strength is much superior to that of metal- lic wires, so long as they are kept moist. The tendons have very few blood-vessels; in fact none are ob- served in them in their ordinary state. Nor have any nerves been traced in them ; sesamoid bones are very frequently developed in their substance. They present much the same chemical characters as the li- gaments; but by maceration soften readily without dilating or swelling ; their fibres separate from eacli other, and at length change into a soft whitish pulp, which appears to be homogeneous. In boiling water they curl at first, then soften, become semi- transparent, and dissolve almost entirely into jelly. Exposed to the air, they dry up, and become similar to horn. OF THE APONEUROSES. 796. The Aponeuroses are fibrous expansions, prolongations of the hgaments, tendons, or periosteum, but which on being strictly examined appear always to originate from the latter mem- brane, or to terminate in it. They are more or less broad, and so disposed as to envelope the muscles in a sort of sheath, or to furnish points of attachment to their fleshy fibres; for it is re- markable, that the latter are never fixed directly to a bone, or even to the periosteum, but connected with them by the intervention of fibrous organs, such as tendons or aponeuroses, as we have al- ready said (795). The aponeuroses of the first kind may surround a whole limb, and envelope its muscles entirely, as is the case in the thigh ; or, they may serve as a bridle to keep the muscles in their place, with- out covering them in all parts, as is observable in that which unites the two small posterior scrrati. Those of the second kind arc sometimes broad, as is seen on the