GENERAL CONFORMATION OF THE SPLEEN. 793 otitcr appears composed of white longitudinal fibres ; the inner is mucous, very thin, and furnished with a small number of papillaj. It is continuous with the internal membranes of the gall bladder and duodenum. Of the Spleen.* GENERAL CONFORMATION. 2915. The Spleen (Lien) whose uses, although entirely un- known, seem to have some connexion with the secretion of the bile, •is a parenchymatous, vascular viscus, of a soft and spongy tex- ture, and of a dark red colour, inclining to black, rarely uniform, and almost always marbled. It is placed deeply in the left hypo- cliondrium, beneath the diaphragm, above the descending colon, between the tuberosity of the stomach and the cartilages of the ; false ribs, before the corresponding supra-renal capsule and the up- per part of the kidney of the same side. It is attached to the sur- 1 rounding organs in a more or less loose manner by folds of the ] peritoneum, and by a great number of vessels. Its form is that I of a segment of an ellipse, of which the greatest diameter is nearly ' vertical. Its volume presents the most numerous variations, and I cannot be given with precision, any more than its weight. Its spe- icific gravity, however, is to that of water as 1160 to 1000. 2916. Most commonly the spleen is single. Sometimes however i it is accompanied by some small bodies of the same nature, which ; are of variable form, and lodged in the omentum. 2917- The Outer Surface of the spleen is convex and in con- t tact with the diaphragm. It corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and ( eleventh ribs of the left side. The inner is divided into two parts I by a longitudinal groove called the Fissure of the Spleen. This t fissure never occupies the ^hole length of the organ, and is filled I by vessels and a certain quantity of fat. The posterior portion of t the inner surface of the spleen is applied upon the left side of the \ vertebral column ; the anterior, which is a little larger, corres- [ponds to the great cul-de-sac of the stomach. 2918. The circumference of the spleen has a very irregular fforra. Thicker above and behind than below and before, it is ssmooth and rounded, but intersected from space to space by notches V varying in depth and number. It corresponds above to the apo- n neurosis of the diaphragm, below to the left kidney and supra-renal ccapsule, behind to the pancreas, and before to the walls of the tlthorax, through the intervention of the diaphragm.