702 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. it ascends, from right to left, along the small curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the termination of the coronary ar- tery of the stomach (2514), after a course of greater or less length. It gives to the two surfaces of the stomach and to the pylorus twigs, which inosculate with those of the right gastro-epiploic artery. 2520. Right Gastro-epiploic Artery (Art. gastro-epiploica dew- tra). It arises, to the right of the pylorus and beneath it, from the lower part of the hepatic. Its size is considerable. It de- scends at first vertically behind the stomach as far as its great curvature, applied posteriorly upon the second portion of the duo- denum, and covered to the left by the pancreas. It then proceeds from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, be- tween the layers of the anterior lamina of the great omentum, as far as the middle part of that curvature, where it inosculates with the left gastro-epiploic artery. In its vertical portion, this artery gives off twigs of indetermi- nate number, and inconsiderable size, (^Art. pancreatico-duodena- les), which are distributed to the walls of the duodenum, and the posterior surface of the pancreas. In its horizontal portion, along the great curvature of the stomach, it gives off, superiorly, numerous twigs, which ascend in a flexuous manner over the two surfaces of that viscus, and anas- tomose with those of the pyloric artery and coronary artery of the stomach. Inferiorly, it sends oft' some which descend vertically between the laminae of the great omentum, and gain, by being reflected in the posterior lamina, the edge of the arch of the colon, where they inosculate with the colic arteries. 2521. When the hepatic artery has furnished these two arteries, it ascends, before the vena port^je, and on the left of the hepatic duct, to the right side of the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, and in the transverse fissure of the liver divides into two considerable branches, a right and a left. 2522. Right Branch (Art. Hepatica Dextra). Directed up- wards and outwards, it crosses the direction of the hepatic duct, beyond which it furnishes the Cystic Artery {Art. Cystica), which gains the neck of the gall-bladder, and spreads out in the lower part of the walls of that reservoir, tvhere it winds for some time between the serous and mucous membranes of which it is com- posed. The cystic artery, moreover, sends a very considerable twig between the liver and gall-bladder, to be distributed in the substance of both. After the origin of the cystic artery, the right branch of the hepatic artery dives into the transverse fissure of the liver, and loses itself by ramifying in its right lobe. 2523. Left Branch {Art. Hepatica Sinistra). Proceeding obliquely upwards and inwards, it enters the transverse fissure and loses itself in the left lobe and in the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, accompanying, like the preceding, the divisions of the vena porttc.