ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 692 behind the interossci muscles, and lose themselves in their sub- stance and in the integuments of the back of the hand. 2°. Dorsal Artery of tke Metacarpus. It comes off from th( radial artery when it is about to enter into the upper extremity of the abductor indicis muscle. It passes immediately over the second matacarpal bone, along which it descends obliquely to the middle of the back of the hand. Sometimes it is prolonged as far as the index. Its twigs are distributed to the abductor indicis and integuments; some of these communicate with the dorsal artery' of the wrist. 2468. Before entering into the palm of the hand, the radial artery gives off a branch which descends between tlie flexor brcvis poUicis and abductor indicis muscles, and divides into two twigs, one of which follows the inner edge of the thumb, the other the outer edge of the forefinger, at the extremities of which they anas- tomose with the collateral vessels; these two branches sometimes come off separately from the radial. ,? OF THE RADIAL ARTERY IN THE PALM OF THE HAND. 24G9- On entering the palm of the hand the radial artery gives off the arteria magna pollicis, which proceeds downwards and towards the lower extremity of the first metacarpal bone, and divides into two branches, which run, the one along the radial side, and the^ other along the ulnar side, of the anterior surface of the thumb. 2470. Deep Palmar Arch, (arcus palmaris profundus). It is formed by the continuation of the radial artery, which passes transversely to near the ring-finger, describing a slight curve hav- ing its convexity directed downwards. It is covered by the addvictor pollicis, the tendons of the two flexor muscles of the fingers, and the lumbricales, and rests upon the extremities of the metacarpal bones and upon the interossei muscles. The twigs which it furnishes are superior, inferior, anterior and posterior. 2471. Superior Twigs. They are very slender and not nume- rous. They ascend before the carpus and are distributed to its ligaments and to the adductor, flexor brevis and opponens pollicis muscles. 2472. Inferior Twigs, {Arteries interosseai volares). More voluminous and longer, they are generally five in number. The first is generally larger than the others, and proceeds along the whole length of the forefinger, forming its digito-radial branch. The next three descend in the interosseous spaces, from the second to the fourth, and at the articulation of the metacarpal bones with the fingers, divide into small twigs which are distributed upon the fingers. The fifth is a little inclined downwards, and passes be- tween the flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti, in which it loses itself.