695 OF THE ULNAR ARTEllY. into two branches which are named the anterior and posterior in- tcrosscal. 2488. Anterior Interosseal Artery. It descends vertically be-- fore tlie interosseous ligament, between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor tligitorimi profundus muscles, which conceal it by their approximation. Arrived at the upper edge of the pronator qua- dratus muscle, where its size is already sensibly diminished, it passes behind it, perforates the interosseous ligament near the in- ferior articulation of the radius and vdna, descends in the groove ■which lodges the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis muscles, passes over the carpus, and then divides, anastomosing with the dorsal artery of that part. In its course, the anterior interosseal artery gives off the nvtri- tious arteries of the radius and ulna, and numerous twigs, which direct themselves transversely or descend obliquely in the flexor longus pollicis and flexor digitorum sublimis. Anteriorly and in- feriorly, there also separate from it some twigs for the pronator quadratus muscle. Those which come off posteriorly pass through the interosseous ligament, and go to lose themselves in the pos- terior and deep muscles of the fore-arm, or to anastomose with the branches of the posterior interosseal artery. 2489. Posterior Interosseal Artery. It passes above the in- terosseous ligament, and appears at the posterior and upper part of the fore-arm, under the anconeus muscle, where it divides into two branches of nearly equal size. 1°. One of these, named the Interosseal Recurrent Artery^ {Arteria recurrens inierossea), ascends between the anconeus and extensor carpi ulnaris muscles, as far as the back part of the outer condyle, where it anastomoses with the twigs of the deep humeral artery (2451) and radial recurrent (2462). It distributes its divi- sions to the extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus and triceps extensor muscles, the elbow-joint, and to the periosteum of the humerus and bones of the fore-arm. 2°. The other branch, or Posterior Interosseal Artery, pro- perly so called, descends vertically between the supinator brevis and extensor ossis raetacarpi pollicis muscles, and afterwards between the two layers of the posterior muscles of the fore-arm, as far as the' posterior surface of the carpus, where it anastomoses with the an- terior interosseal. It becomes much smaller inferiorly, and gives a great number of ramifications to the extensor carpi ulnaris, ex- tensor proprius minimi digiti, extensor digitorum communis, exten- sores carpi radiales, supinator brevis, extensor ossis metaearpi pol- licis, extensor primi internodii and extensor secundi internodii pol- licis, and extensor indicis. One of its twigs, which is much larger than the rest, passes between the extensor ossis metaearpi poHicis, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, gains the inferior extremity of the radius, and loses itself separately at the posterior and ex- ternal part of the carpus. »