^74 ORGANS OF SENSATION. dry bone; they arc designated by the names of vestibule, cochlea and semi-circular canals. OF THE VESTIBULE. 2030. The Vestibule (vestibulum), is a cavity of an irregular form, approaching however somewhat to that of a spheroid. It is situated internally of the tympanum, in which it forms a pro- minence which contributes to the formation of the promontory (2008, 2°), externally of the meatus auditorius internus, anteriorly of the semicircular canals, and posteriorly of the cochlea. Above and below it is covered by the compact tissue of the petrous pro- cess. It is divided into two unequal portions of different forms, by a bony crest which rises from its inner wall, directs itself out- wards and a little forwards, and terminates above the fenestra ova- lis by a very small pyramid with a flattened and wrinkled summit. In the vestibule the following apertures are observed : i^'^, exter- nally, the inner orifice of the fenestra ovalis, closed by the base of the stapes, and shut moreover on this side by the proper membrane of the vestibule; 2dly, above, the two anterior orifices of the superior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals ; 3dly, anteriorly and inferiorly, the orifice of the external scala of the cochlea ; ^thly, posteriorly, the two separated apertures of the posterior vertical and horizontal semicircular canals, and an aperture common to the two vertical canals, the latter preceded by a groove, while the other orifices are formed in a mere depression; 5thly, internally, several holes, giving passage to blood-vessels and filaments of the acoustic nerve (1692), which communicate in the internal auditory canal. 2031. Of the Aqueduct of the Vestibule. This name is given to an extremely narrow canal, which forms a communication between this cavity and the base of the cranium. It commences in the ves- tibule by an orifice which is frequently almost imperceptible, inter- nally of and very near the common orifice of the two vertical semi- circular canals. From thence it directs itself at first upwards, then backwards and downwards, and opens, becoming wider, on the pos- terior surface of the petrous process (177)» ^ small cavity of the dura mater. OT" THE COCHLEA. 2032. This is a bony cavity, formed of two conical canals, spi- rally twisted like a univalve shell, from which circumstance it has obtained its name. It is formed in the anterior part of the petrous process, anteriorly and internally of the vestibule and internal au- ditory canal. Inclined from within outwards, from above down- wards, and from behind forwards, it describes two spirals running