168 PASSIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. CHAPTER SECOND. OF THE ARTICULATIONS. Preliminarij Remarks. 553. The mode in which the bones are connected and fitted to each other, is designated by the name Articulatiun. It is by means of articvilations that the osseous system forms a whole, whidi constitutes the Skeleton. 554. In the long bones, it is by the extremities that the articu- lations take place ; in the broad bones, it is commonly by the edges; in the short bones, by various points of the surface. DIVISIONS OP THE ARTICULATIONS. 555. The articulations are naturally divided into two general classes, the moveable and the immoveable. 556. The former present two great subdivisions : for the sur- faces of the bones, which enter into their formation, may be kept in a sort of continuity, by means of some particular organ inter- posed between them, as is the case with the bodies of the vertebrte, or they may be merely contiguous, as in the articulations of the limbs. 557. The latter, which belong peculiarly to the bones which unite to form cavities destined to protect the organs, such as the head, the pelvis, &c. are also subdivided into different orders, dependent upon the conformation of the surfaces which concur to form them. Thus, these surfaces may be, 1°, Simply placed in juxtaposi- tion, which is the case in places where the bones, by their very po- sition, must necessarily preserve their mutual relations in a perma- nent manner, as is observed at the base of the cranium, and in the articulation of most of the bones of the face, where the mechanism of the part is of itself sufficient to ensure solidity. 2°, They are interlocked, if the general mechanism of the region is insufficient to maintain this solidity. They then present projections and in- dentations, of irregular size and form, which are mutually received, and are exactly fitted to each other, as may be seen with respect to the broad bones of the cranium. This mode of union is only pre- sented by the circumference of the flat bones, in which, on account of the narrowness of the surfaces, it is necessary that the points of contact should be multiplied. 3", They sometimes constitute a