rilELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 6 The Lymphatic, or absorbent vessels (Vasa lympliatica), arc thin, transparent, and, like the veins, furnished internally with val- vules ; but, in place of blood, they contain a peculiar fluid named lymph, which they empty into the veins.* a. The Erectile or Caveroious tissue. This consists of a pecu- liar arrangement of the terminations of the arteries, but more par- ticularly of the radicles of the veins, which are much dilated, and when excited, become distended with blood. This tissue is most evident in the organs of generation. D. The Lymphatic Ganglia ox Conglobate glands. Connected with the lymphatics, are the lymphatic ganglia ox the conglobate glands, small bodies which vary in size and form. They are generally of a reddish white colour, but those placed near the liver are yellowish, those near the spleen brown, and those in the neighbourhood of the lungs black. The intimate texture of these bodies has not yet been determined; they are of a firmer consistence than any other soft part. They are supposed to be to the lymphatics what the nervous ganglia are to the nerves ; for, on the one hand, they re- ceive the lymphatic vessels (vasa inferentia), and, on the other, transmit them to join their common trunk (vasa efferentia). E. The Glands (GlandulcB) are organs varying much in form, size, colour, consistence and structure, but all destined to separate from the mass of the blood a fluid peculiar to each of them, which is immediately thrown out by means of ramified excretory ducts, on the surface of the tegumentary membranes.f . a. As nearly allied to the glands we may include the Follicles or Crypts, which are membranous and vascular vesicles connected with the tegumentary membranes, and of which their inner surfaces are continuations. They are of a rounded or lenticular form, and in them is secreted a peculiar fluid, which is effused over the surface of the part, and lubricates it. F. The Ligaments {Ligamenta, Nervi colligantes) are parts of a fibrous nature which are situated around the joints, and serve to connect the bones to each other. They vary much in their form and general appearance, being sometimes membraniform and some- times existing as compact, round, and whitish cords of great strength, attached to the bones by their two extremities. a. The Tendons (Tendines) are white, glistening, and fibrous cords, to which the muscular fibres are attached, varying as to length and thickness, sometimes round and som,etimes flat; in them the muscular fibres terminate, and through the medium of them are connected to the bones. b. The Aponeuroses (Aponeuroses) are fibrous membranes si- • A great division of these vessels, tlie Laclcah, is destined to carry the chyle from tlie intestinal canal into the general mass of blood. t Some bodies termed glands have no excretory ducts, these are the thjToid, thy. mus, and supra-renal glands, and the spleen, which, from the large quantity of Idood tlicy receive, have, with some reason, been supposed to have an influence on its furniatioii.