815 OF THE CORPUS CAVEUNOSUM. 3001. Its inferior surface presents a broad groove, deeper than that of the upper surface, which receives the upper part of the cor- pus spongiosum urethra?, to which it is attached by a fihimentous celluhu- tissue. ORGANIZATION OF THE CORPUS CAVERNOSUM. 3002. The corpus cavernosum is essentially composed of an elas- tic, fibrous, and very strong external membrane, and of an inter- nal spongy tissue. 3003. Fibrous Membrane. It is in general very elastic, very thick and very strong, excepting however upon its roots, in the groove which receives the urethra, and at the extremity which sus- tains the glans, in all which places it is traversed by a multitude of vascular ramifications. Its general colour is opaque white, ex- cepting in the parts just mentioned, where it appears more or less livid. Its fibres are for the most part longitudinal. They are in- terlaced posteriorly with the periosteum of the ischium and pubes, and the aponeuroses of the muscles which are attached to their lower edge. 3004. The cavity of this fibrous membrane is divided into two lateral portions by an incomplete middle partition, {Septum pecti- niforme), which commences before the symphysis pubis, but is not prolonged as far as the glans, presenting in its anterior third only a few flattened fibrous fasciculi, separated by intervals of greater or less breadth. 3005. Spongy Tissue. This tissue, which fills the whole cavity of the fibrous membrane, seems to be a very complicated lace-work of arterial and venous vessels, probably of nervous filaments, and of small fibrous laminae, which, by crossing each other, form a multitude of cellules, which all communicate together, and in which there is always found a greater or less qviantity of blood. An in- jjection made by the cavernous artery penetrates into these cellules; and if they are distended with air, it passes into the cavernous vein, so that we may, to a certain degree, consider them as intermediate Ifcetween the arteries and the veins. The filaments which enter into tthe composition of this tissue are very distinctly continuous with tthe fibrous membrane. 3006. The. arteries of the corpus cavernosum (2598) come from tthe deep branch of the internal pudic, and occupy the centre of iits lateral portions. They have frequent anastomoses with each oothcr, and communicate with the arteries of the glans and vircthra. Its veins follow the same course as the arteries ; but their volume lis much larger. The nerves have not yet been fully traced in the s^pongy tissue of this organ.