PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 166 The two superior extremities are separated, at their upper part, by a larger interval than that which exists between tlie heads of the femurs. With respect to length and strength, tlie inferior extremities greatly exceed the superior; their length forms seven-thirteenths of the total length of the body. We observe, however, that the hand, from the manner in which it is articulated with the fore- arm, presents larger dimensions, following the general axis of the limb, than the foot, which forms nearly a right angle with the leg. The femur and humerus have a great resemblance to each other; at their upper extremity, the head and trochanters of the one cor- respond to the head and tuberosities of the other. Tlie tibia and fibula have an obvious resemblance, the former to the radius, and. the latter to the ulna. The patella may, to a certain extent, be considered as analogous to the olecranon. The malleoli of the foot, and tlie styloid processes of the wrist, are also analogous parts. But the foot and the hand are the parts that admit of the most perfect comparison. Pes altera manus, it has been said, and the saying is very true ; they present the same divisions, the same bones, and, to a certain degree, the same kind of motions. Indi- viduals born without arms have been seen, who were so expert in using the foot, that they could write and lay hold of the minutest objects with it. Tiiese two parts differ, however, in certain respects. Thus the tarsus is very different from the carpus in respect to the number, size, form and arrangement of its bones. The tarsus is the longest part of the foot; in the hand the carpus occupies very little space. All that the former has gained with respect to size and solidity, it appears to have lost with reference to mobility. The toes are much shorter than the fingers, and present con- siderable differences in the structure and conformation of their pha- langes. OF THE PBEPAEATION OF BONES. 551. Bones may be cleaned and prepared in the following man- ner : Choose the bones of a young adult subject, which has died of a lingering disease, and is much infiltrated; cut away the soft parts, but take care not to remove the periosteum. Put the bones in- to an earthen ware jar, large enough to hold them without crowding, and cover them entirely with soft water, which should be renewed daily for six or eight days, that all the blood may be carried off: at the end of this time cover up the jar very accurately, and let them macerate for four or five months; the temperature of the maccn-iiting room being at least as high as 70^ Faln-cnlicit. The bones are now"to be taken out of the water of maceration, cleaned with a hard brush, and then well Avashcd with water, or they may be again macerated for several days, the water being fre- quently changed.