367 MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. cle. They come from the ramus of which wc have just spoken, i and are attached to the upper fourth of the linea aspera of the fe- ] mur, and to the ridge which unites it to the great trochanter, pass- 1 ing before the rest of the muscle. The middle fibres, which are ! longer and more oblique, terminate in the three inferior fourths of I the linea aspera, by a pretty long aponeurosis, which is confound- 1 ed with tlie insertions of the two other adductors, and is perforat- I ed by several apertures for the perforating arteries ; but, at the I end of the linea aspera, it bifurcates in such a manner, that one , of its portions ends in a point between the vastus internus and the : short head of the biceps, while the other proceeds towards a ten- don, which terminates the vastus internus. Between these two portions, there exists an interval which is traversed by the crural artery and vein, and which represents a canal entirely fibrous. Lastly, the inner fibres, which are very long and nearly vertical, are inserted into a tendon which commences very high upon the inner edge of the muscle, sends a fibrous prolongation before the crural artery, unites with the aponeurosis of the adductor longus, and is attached to the tuberosity of the internal condyle of the femur, where it is incorporated with the inner edge of the vastus: internus. ' 1357. The anterior surface of this muscle is covered by the two preceding, by the sartorius, and by the crural artery. The posterior covers the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, biceps, and glutaeus raaximus muscles, and the sciatic nerve. The inner edge, which is much thicker above than below, is in connexion with the fascia lata, the gracilis and sartorius muscles. 1358. This muscle brings the thigh powerfully toward that of the opposite side, keeps the pelvis in its natural position, and has the same uses as the other adductors. • 1359. To dissect the muscles of the fore and lateral parts of the thigh, place the subject on its back, and put a block under the pelvis. Make an incision through the skin along the outer part of the thigh from the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium, to the knee, and other two, from the extremities of this one to the inside of the thigh ; these incisions being made, dissect the skin inwards from the surface of the fascia lata. The next part of the dissection is to remove the fascia from the outer surface of the tensor vaginae femoris, (1330) and from that of the sartorius (1333), dissecting in the direction of their fibres. This being done, bend the leg upon the thigh and raise the fascia from the anterior surfaces of the rectus (1336) and vastus externus and in- ternus (1342). Next cut through the rectus and sartorius in their middle; the former, to show the cruralis, and the latter to make way for the examination of the gracilis, pectineus and adductors. 10 dissect which muscles, the leg is to be extended on the thigh, and the latter abducted, the gracilis is exposed by raising the aponeuro- sis covering its inner surface (1345) ; the pectineus, on the outer edge ot winch the lower extremity of the psoas and iliacus (1291)