OF THE COCHLEA. in inverse directions, according as tliey are examined in a left or in a rio-lit temporal bone. There arc distinguished in the cochlea an axis"or central nucleus, a lamina which forms its walls, a spiral septum, and an aqueduct. 2033. The Jii'is, (Modiolus) commences towards the bottom of the internal auditory canal, and is directed nearly horizontally for- wards and outwards, towards the inner part of the horizontal por- tion of the carotid canal. It is conical. Its base, which is pretty broad, is marked with a depression which is observed at the bottom of the internal auditory canal. This depression lodges the coch- lear branch of the acoustic nerve (1691), and transmits it into the interior of the cavity by a great number of porosities. It terminates, becoming narrower, towards the summit of the axis itself, which is marked with a small cavity named the Infimdihulum, the entrance of which is wide and slanting. The surface of the bony axis is spirally marked by a double groove, and presents a great number of smaU holes for the passage of the nervous filaments of which we have just made mention. 2034. The Lamina forming the walls of the Cochlea, is com- pact and bent upon itself in the direction of its breadth. It forms a kind of half canal, of which the edges are a little thicker than the rest and firmly united to the axis, around which it describes two spiral turns and a half, advancing upon the infundibulum. These turns are closely united together in the place where they meet, and form an equally spiral cavity which goes on gradually diminishing. 2035. The Lamina Spiralis, or Spiral Septum of the Cochlea, divides this cavity in its whole extent into two parts. Bony in the portion connected with the axis, it is membraneous in that connected with the walls of the cochlea. Broader towards the base of the cochlea, it ends upon the axis, towards the middle of the second turn, by a kind of hook {hamulus cochlea;), where the point of the infundibulum commences. In its bony portion it is com- posed of two lamella? between which there is observed a great number of small canals for nerves. Its membraneous portion is ex- tremely thin, and exists alone from the middle of the second turn to the summit, where it is perforated by a small rounded aperture. 2036. The two cavities which result from the presence of this ; septum have been called the Scales of the cochlea. One of them i is internal, the other external. The former would communicate 1 with the cavity of the tympanum by the fenestra rotunda were it « not closed by its membrane. The latter opens freely into the ves- t tibule. The internal is broader and shorter, and the surface of the 1 lamina spiralis corresponding to it is wrinkled and uneven. The ex- ternal is narrower and longer, and the surface of the lamina spiralis '• which corresponds to it presents prominent radiating lines. They c communicate with each other by the aperture of the summit of I the lamina spiralis, and gradually contract from their commence- r. ment to their point of communication. The vertical section of each 0 of them presents nearly the form of a semicircle.