OI- THE VAS, DEFEUENS.. 809 its surface. On leaving it to invest the testicle, it forms between the two organs two oblong, triangular sinuosities placed in contact by their summits. 2977. The epididymis is nothing but a canal formed by the union of all those which have traversed the corpus Highmorianum. This canal or duct, which is very slender and bent upon itself a multitude of times, describes numerous flexuosities which are con- nected by cellular bridles. Its walls are very thick in proportion to its calibre. Its length is great; Monro makes it amount to thirty-two feet. Its volume increases in proportion as it advances from the head towards the tail of the epididymis. 297^- There is pretty frequently seen to arise from the middle of this organ a small canal which ascends in the middle of the sper- matic cord, and whose termination is not well known. OF. THE SPERMATIC CORD. 2979- The Spermatic Cord (Funiculus Spermaticus), com- posed of the spermatic artery and vein, of some other inconsider- .able and irregular blood-vessels, of lymphatics, of nervous filaments from the spermatic plexus (1922), and from the genito-crural branch of the lumbo-abdominal plexus (1802), and of a duct for the semen called the vas deferens, is enveloped by several mem- braneous layers, and contains a great quantity of cellular tissue in the intervals of its constituent parts. From the upper edge of the testicle, which is suspended at its extremity, as far as the symphisis pubis, the spermatic cord, com- monly shorter on the right side than on the left, and of variable size, ascends almost vertically. There, it receives numerous veins from the scrotum, and then directs itself outwards and upwards to enter into the abdomen by the inguinal ring, crossing the epigas- tric artery (2603). Then the organs of which it is composed se- parate from each other, and follow a course with which we are al- ready acquainted. The membraneous layers which surround the spermatic cord are the fibrous coat of the testicle (2967), and the cremaster muscle, (2966). OF THE VAS DEFERENS. 2980. The Vas Deferens (Ductus Deferens) arising from the tail of the epididymis, ascends, describing several flexuosities, be- hind the testicle, and immechately enters the spermatic cord, be- hind and internally of the spermatic artery and vein, and the nerves which accompany them. After clcaringthe inguinal ring, it leaves the other vessels of the cord, descends backwards and inwards, parallel to that of ihe opposite side, upon the sides of the bladder, passes