ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 338 cartilage to the symphysis of tlie pubes, there is a strong tendi- nous cord, called L'mea alba, whose lateral limits are not well de- termined. It is broader above than below, and occupies the inter- val between the two recti muscles of the abdomen, presenting about its middle, a cicatrix, named the umbilicus, which is its firmest point. This cicatrix closes up an opening which in the foetus gave passage to the urachus and the parts which constituted the umbi- lical cord. It is deeper and more distinct the older a person is, and adheres strongly to the integuments, so that in fat people, it appears much more sunk than in others; its circumference, which is thick and very hard, is irregularly quadrilateral, and formed of four jilanes of albugineous fibres bent upon themselves, and cross- img each other at their extremities. Between these four planes is the trace of the aperture, which is very close, but yet allows a probe to penetrate obliquely downwards between the peritoneum and the anterior wall of the abdomen. 1249. The Linea alba, whose use is to limit the motions of the thorax backwards, to prevent it from separating too far from the pel- vis, and to furnish a fixed point to the abdominal muscles for their contractions, is connected to the right and left, for the latter pur- pose, to two aponeurotic laminae, situated the one before the other. 1250. The more superficial of these lamina? passes before the rectus abdominis, and having arrived at its outer edge, divides into two other laminae, the posterior of which united to a deeper la- mina, furnishes points of attachment to the obliquus internus ab- dominis, while the anterior affords similar attachment to the obli- quus externus. Behind them, but in their lower fourth only, is another lamina, which belongs to the transversus abdominis. 1251. The lamina which belongs to the obliquus externus is thin, elongated, less broad above than below, contracted in the mid- dle, so as to terminate by its concave edge outwards. It occupies the whole anterior part of the abdomen, and is thicker and more elastic the lower it is examined. Above the umbilicus, it is tran- sparent and formed of fibres running obliquely outwards and up- wards, which are confounded, near the base of the thorax, with the lower insertions of the pectoraUs major. At the upper and outer part, these fibres are manifestly intersected at right angles by other Tcry distinct fibres passing obliquely inwards and upwards. Be- neath the umbilicus, the fibres are much stronger, and form an opaque layer which no longer permit the fleshy bodies situated un- der it to be distinguished. They are disposed in small bands, pa- rallel to each other, passmg obliquely upwards and backwards, so that the aponeurosis has the appearance of being merely warped, but about the distance of an inch and a half from the pubes it forms an interlaced tissue; there, other small bands cross the di- rection of the first in various ways, most of them however being transverse (Linem transnerscB) and proceed as far as the superior and anterior iliac spine ; several of them are curved, their convexi-