OF THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 441 bids of the velum interpositum. The latter, altogether posteriorly, applied upon the posterior commissure and the tubercula quad- i-remina. Laterally, it covers the upper region of the thalami of !ie optic nerves, passes into the fissures which separate them from lie fornix, and is continuous with the edge of the choroid plexus, interiorly it is continuous with these same plexuses by the aper- tures of communication between the lateral and third ventricles. 1587- The Choroid Plexuses are a kind of flat, reddish mem- ibrano-vascular cords, attached to the velum interpositum by one of :ltheir edges, loose, floating, and undulated at the other edge, and 'Extending, in the lateral ventricles, along the sides of the fornix and *ifimbriated bodies. They are more voluminous in the lower part tithan in the upper part of the ventricles, and altogether inferior- ity and posteriorly communicate directly with the external pia nmater, which dives into the brain between the thalami of the optic nnerves and the fimbriated bodies. They are especially formed by {'folds of the pia mater, in which ramify a multitude of minute aarteries and especially veins. There is frequently perceived in tthem a more or less considerable number of small rounded bodies, oof the size of a millet seed, or even smaller. Many anatomists have cconsidered them as glands; but Chaussier asserts that they are rmembraneous fringes, which may be unfolded by agitating them in »water. There are also frequently found in them small serous cysts cor vesicles. OF THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. 1588. The Arachnoid* Membrane (Meninx media), is situated ; between the dura mater and pia mater, and was long confounded ' with the latter. Its belongs to the class of serous membranes. It i is extremely thin, transparent, polished, and constantly moistened 1 with a serous fluid. It does not contain any blood-vessels. It re- 1 presents a kind of bag without aperture, covering the whole surface of the brain, and the walls of the cavity which the dura I mater forms. It furnishes all the nerves, and all the vessels which enter into or issue from, the skull and vertebral canal, with a sheath • or envelope which accompanies them, and is reflected over them, so ' that none of these organs is contained in its cavity, which is only filled with a serous vapour. Its thickness is a little greater in the 1 places where it is free at its two surfaces, and in the sheaths of which we have just spoken. 1589. External Arachiioid Membrane.—On the convexity of the cerebrum, it invests the convolutions without penetrating into the anfractuosities by which they arc separated, and gives to each vem, gomg to the longitudinal sinus, a sheath which is reflected over tlic dura mater. Descending on each side in the great lon- * 'A(a;if^mim, resembling a spider's web.