ORGANS OF CIRCULATION, 740 nasi and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles, bends outwards, passes beneath the zygomaticus major at a considerable distance from tlic commissure of the lips, receives the dorsal veins of the nose, the superior and inferior coronary veins of the lips, and several buccal and masseteric veins, and directs itself towards the base of the jaw, without forming flexuosities like the artery to which it corresponds. It then directs itself obliquely downwards, backwards and outwards, between the platysma myoides and submaxillary gland, and ar- rives,at the internal jugular vein, after being augmented in the lat- ter part of its course by the ranine, submental, and inferior Pala- tine Veins. The first of these three veins arises from the point of the tongue, descends along its inferior surface, follows the hypoglossal nerve between the mylo-hyoideus and hyo-glossus muscles, and dis- charges itself into the facial vein a little above the two following. The second commences in the tongue and sublingual gland, by a branch which accompanies Wharton's duct, and which is pre- sently augmented by other branches from the digastricus, platysma myoides and mylo-hyoideus muscles, and from the sub-maxillary gland. By their union, these branches constitute the trunk of the vein, which descends backwards between the body of the jaw and the anterior belly of the digastricus muscle, and opens into the facial vein or into the superior thyroid. The third arises chiefly from the tonsils and velum palati, ac- companies the inferior palatine artery, descends upon the sides of the pharynx, and receives some twigs from the pterygoideus in- ternus and stylo-glossus muscles. 2699- After receiving the facial vein, the internal jugular is augmented by the lingual and pharyngeal veins. 2700. Lingual Vein {Vena lingualis). It arises particularly from a very complicated net-work, which is placed towards the base of the tongue, beneath the mucous membrane, between the epi- glottis and the foramen ccecum (2072). It also receives many twigs from the tissue of the tongue, the sublingual gland, and the genio-glossus muscle : it anastomoses with the ranine vein, de- scends between the sublingual gland and the genio-glossus muscle, then between the hyo-glossus and mylo-hyoideus muscles, and di- rects itself horizontally backwards and outwards before the latter, along the upper edge of the hyoid bone. It frequently unites with the pharyngeal before opening into the jugular. 2701. Pharyngeal Vein {Vena phar^jngea). It commences at the pharyngeal venous plexus, of which we have already spoken, (2683), which is formed by the anastomosis of the two pharyngeal veins, of some emissary veins of Santorini, and of the internal max- illary veins. Its size is considerable. It opens into the jugular vein separately or along with the preceding. 2702. Opposite the upper edge of the larynx, the internal ju- gular vein receives the superior thyroid and occipital veins. 2703. Superior Thyroid Vein. {Vena thyroidea superior). It