ORGANS OF SECllliTlON. 2909. Cellular Mainbrane. It is pretty compact. It is chiefly in its substance that the blood-vessels and lymphatics creep. On the side next the liver, it is it that produces the adhesion of the gall-bladder; on the other surface, it unites the serous with the mucous membrane. It sometimes contains a little fat in such of its cellules as are near the neck. 2910. Mucous Membrane. Its thickness is pretty considerable. During life it is whitish, and it is only after death that it is tinged green by the transudation of the bile. Neither crypts nor follicles are perceived in it, there being only found in it some small grains, analogous to these organs, between the valvular folds of the neck. It is, however, covered with a great number of fungoid papilla.' very close to each other. 2911. No traces of fleshy fibres are discovered in the walls of the gall-bladder. Its arteries are furnished by the cystic twig of the hepatic artery. Its veins go to the vena portae. Its nerves come from the hepatic plexus, and its lymphatics join those of the liver. CYSTIC DUCT-* 2912. Placed, like the hepatic duct, in the substance of the gastro-hepatic omentum, it is a little smaller than it, but has nearly the same length. Directed inwards, backwards, and a little up- wards, it meets it at an acute angle, runs along it for some time, and at length unites with it. Its left side is in connexion with the trunk of the cystic artery, and behind it, is the orifice of the poste- rior cavity of the omenta. DUCTUS COMMUNIS CHOLEDOCHUS.*}* 2913. The Ductus communis cJioledochus results from the union of the cystic and hepatic ducts ; but it appears to be the continua- tion of the latter. From three to three and a half inches long, and also lodged between the laminae of the gastro-hepatic omentum, be- fore the vena portse and below the hepatic artery, surrounded with cellular tissue, ganglions and lymphatic vessels, it descends behind the right extremity of the pancreas, and the second portion of the duodenum, inosculates with the pancreatic duct, or merely runs along side of it, enters obhquely between the fleshy and mucous coats of the intestine, and opens, an mch lower, in the duodenum, near its last curve. Its mouth is placed upon a small mammillary eminence, and is furnished with a membraneous fold. 2914. The different excretory ducts of the bile are formed by two distmct membraneous lamina?, an outer and an inner. The • Kvi]i;, vesica. •}■ Xo?.?!, bilis, hx'f-o" accipio, rccipio.