ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. (360 nerves (1662), and afterwards descends vertically between the cir- cumflexus palati and pterygoideus internus muscles, in the sub- stance of which it separates into a great number of twigs. 2338. Having entered the cranium, under the dura mater, the meningeal artery furnishes twigs to the portion of that membrane ■which covers the middle lateral fossa of the base of the cranium and to the trifacial nerve. One or two of them proceed forwards, into the orbit, between the sphenoid bone and the malar bone, and terminate at the lachrymal gland, in the parenchyma of which they communicate with the lachrymal artery. Another enters into the aque- duct of Fallopius by the hiatus of the same name, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid artery (2326), after sending some ramifica- tions over the trunk of the facial nerve. The canal of the internal muscle of the malleus also contains one which is distributed to that muscle, and to the mucous membrane of the walls of the tympan- um. This cavity itself receives several other smaller ramifications, which penetrate into it by narrow fissures, observed at the place where the petrous process unites with the rest of the temporal bone. 2339. After giving off these different twigs, the artery itself di- vides into two principal branches of unequal size. The anterior^ which is larger, ascends from behind forwards, towards the anterior and inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it is lodged in a deep groove, and frequently even in a true canal formed in the inner surface of that bone (189). It gives off some twigs, which anas- tomose with the lachrymal artery, issues from its groove and sub- divides into a great number of twigs, which are expanded over the whole internal surface of the parietal bone, which receives them in grooves, disposed so as to resemble the nerves of a leaf, and ex- lending as far as the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater (188). All these twigs have the appearance of small tubes formed in the substance of the dura mater; they belong entirely to that membrane, and only send off opposite to the sutures some small twigs, which anastomose with similar twigs of the arteries of the pericranium. The posterior branch, which is smaller, ascends, bending from before backwards, upon the inner surface of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and upon that of the pa- rietal bone ; it divides in the same manner into a great number of twigs, which expand over the lateral and posterior part of the dura mater. Like those of the anterior branch, they anastomose frequently together, and correspond to grooves formed upon the bones. The last ramifications of the middle meningeal jirtery communi- cate with those of the opposite artery, of the ethmoidal arteries, and of the other small branches which pass over jhe dura mater. 234,0. The Inferior Dentar or Inferior Maxillary Artery. It arises inferiorly from the internal maxillary artery, at the place where the middle meningeal separates from it above, sometimes, however, a little farther on It descends anteriorly along the inner surftice of the ramus of the jaw, at the outer side of the ptcrygoi-