ORGANS OF KESPlllATlON. 630 OF THE PKOPEIl TISSUE OF THE LUNGS. 2231. We have already, to a certain degree, an idea of the in- timate structure of the lung, as we know several of the organs which enter into its composition. But when we come to consider it with some attention, without reference to its constituent parts, we find that it is divided into several lobules, distinct even at the exterior, and separated from each other by small whitish grooves. They are especially very Avell seen on tearing the tissue of the or- gan after it has been boiled. They vary much as to volume and I form. "^ITiey present, in general, a number of small surfaces, bounded by prominent angles, and present in their intervals a loose, filamentous cellular tissue, destitute of fat, very extensible, and ca- pable of becoming emphysematous with tlie greatest ease, whether during life, by the rupture of a division of the bronchus, or after death, by insufflation. Each of these lobules is divided into smaller, withovit its being possible to discover the precise termination of this division. The intimate structure of these last lobules is unknown, j Willis asserted that they have a racemiform arrangement around the ramifications of the bronchi, which, however, does not appear to be the case. It is only very probable that they are formed by the vmion of the last extremities of the bronchi, vessels and nerves which are distributed in the lungs. 2232. Besides the parts which we have already seen to enter into the composition of the lungs, there also occur the pulmonary arteries and veins, of which we shall speak when we come to treat of the heart. They in fact establish an intimate connexion between the organs of respiration and those of circulation. OF THE THYMUS GLAND* 2233. This name is given to an organ, the uses of which are entirely unknown, but which, on account of its position in the an- terior mediastinum, naturally comes to be examined after the organs of respiration. It is parenchymatous, bilobate, glandiform, oblong, soft, lobular, and of very variable colour and size. It is to be ob- served that in the foetus it extends nearly from the thyroid gland to the vicinity of the diaphragm, and progressively diminishes with age, so that in the adult it is, as it were, in a state of atrophy, and in old persons can only be discovered with difficulty in the midst of the cellular tissue. 2234. The thymus gland occupies the upper separation of the anterior mediastinum, and corresponds posteriorly to the trachea (2223), the inferior thyroid veins, the left subclavian vein, the vena • Qvfios of the Greeks.