OF THE SKELETON IN GENERAL. 17 The Arm is formed of 1 Humerus. The Fore-arm of 1 Radius. 1 Ulna. The Hand is subdivided into Carpus, Metacarpus, and Fingers. The Carpus consists of bones arranged in two rows, which, commencing from the radial side, are named as follows,— In the first row 1 Scaphoid bone. I Semilunar bone. 1 Pyramidal or Cuneiform bone. 1 Pisiform bone. In the second row 1 Os Trapezium. 1 Os Trapezoides. 1 Os Magnum. 1 Os Unciforme. The Metacarpus consists of 5 Metacarpal bones, called^7-i/, second, &c. counting from the radial to theiulnar side. Each of the fingers, excepting the thumb, which has only two, consists of three bones, named Phalangeal. They are as foUows, 5 Proximal phalangeal bones. 4 Middle phalangeal bones. 5 Extreme or distal phalangeal bones. The Inferior or Abdominal extremities are each divided into three parts, the Thigh, the Leg, and the Foot. The thigh consists of 1 Os Femoris. The Leg is composed of 1 Patella. 1 Tibia 1 Fibula. The foot, like the hand, is divided into three parts; the Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Toes. The Tarsus consists of 1 Astragalus. 1 Calcaneum. 1 Os Naviculare. 1 Internal cuneiform bone 1 Middle cuneiform bone. 1 External cuneiform bone. 1 Cuboid bone. The Metatarsus consists of 5 Metatarsal bones, which, like those of the metacarpus, are called first, secon4,] Sec. counting from the tibial side- The toes, like the fingers, consist each of three phalangeal bones, except the great toe, which, like the thumb, has only two. They are as follows: 5 Proximal phalangeal bones. 4 Middle phalangeal bones, 4 Extreme phalangeal bones. In addition to the above mentioned bones, the skeleton also pre- sents several anomalous ones, whose existence is not constant. These are the sesamoid bones, which are developed in the substance of certain tendons. 45. It is to be remarked here, that the number of the bones, such as we have represented above, is only what is found in adults; and that to determine it with strict accuracy, it is necessary to take into consideration the age, and peculiarities of the individual. In childhood, a bone may consist of several pieces, which will after- wards become united into one. 46. The external conformation of the human body is symmetri, cal. The line of direction is considered vertical, forming an c