69 OF THE NASAL AND LACIIUYMAL BONES. thin below. Their form, although in general quadrilateral, is ex- cessively variable; and it is seldom that they are exactly the same on both sides. 231. Their anterior aspect, which is covered by the pyramidalis muscle and the skin, is traversed by a few small vascular fur- rows ; it is concave from above downwards, convex transversely : at its middle part it presents the orifice of a hole which passes through the bone, and transmits a small vein to the pituitary mem- brane ; this hole is frequently accompanied by several smaller ones, It is sometimes wanting in one of the bones. 232. Their posterior ox nasal aspect, which is concave, uneven, especially at the upper part, and narrower than the anterior, pre- sents more distinct furrows, and is lined by the pituitary mem- brane. The orifice of the vascular hole just mentioned is seen upon it. 233. The upper edge is denticulated, short, inclined backwards, thick, and united to the nasal notch of the frontal bone. The loiver edge is longer, thin, sharp, and inclined obliquely backwards and downwards. It joins the lateral cartilage of the nose, and presents in its middle a narrow notch for the passage of the terminating branch of the internal nasal nerve. The outer edge, which is very long, uneven, and sloped, sup- ports the ascending process of the maxillary bone, and is often fur- nislied below with two or three small prominences in the form of teeth, which are received into holes formed on that process.* The inner edge, which is broad above, and narrow below, is ar- ticulated with the bone of the opposite side, forming a ridge with it behind, in which there is a groove for receiving the anterior ex- tremity of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and the nasal spine of the frontal. 234. Structure, Development, Articulations. The nasal bones present cellular tissue in almost their whole extent, but especially at their upper and inner edges. They are developed by a single point of ossification. It is unnecessary to mention their articula- tions again. OF THE LACHRYMAL BONE. 235. Form. The Lachrymal Bones, (ossa laclmjmalia, seu Ossa Uruptis), which arc the smallest belonging to the face, arc placed at the inner and fore part of the orbit, occupying a qviadrila- teral irregular space situated between the frontal, ethmoid and supe- rior maxillary bones : their form corresponds to that of the vacuity in which they are placed. They present the following parts.) 236. An orhitar aspect, which is external, smooth, divided Ion. * It soinctiincs Imppcns, that thcsn prominences ni'c on tlic iuseetuling^pioccss of the maxillary boiiu, a>ud thu conchponding holes on this edju of the nawal.