105 OF THE NASAL FOSS^. ture which it forms with the lachrymal bono; 3째, The anterior part of the inner surface of the latter bone, the pores with which it is perforated, and its union with the ethmoid bone; 4째, A por- tion of this latter, which has a lacerated appearance, and is arti- culated to the upper maxillary bone; 5째, The infimdibulum, which leads into the anterior ethmoid cells, and frontal sinus; 6째, The entrance of the maxillary sinus, which is contracted by the ethmoid bone, the inferior turbinated bone, and the palate bone, and situ- ated 'toward the posterior third of the wall, always above the floor of the sinus; this aperture is sometimes double, and is further contracted, in the recent state, by a glandular organ, lodged in the substance of the pituitary membrane. 360. Beneath the middle meatus is the in ferior turbinated bone (226), which presents the greatest number of variations, and seems suspended by its unciform process, which penetrates into the max- illary sinus. Bertin, Cheselden, and Haller, are of opinion, that it is most commonly an appendage of the ethmoid bone. Whether it be so or not, it lies over the inferior meatus, which consists of a horizontal channel, concave from above downwards, and straight from before backwards, formed above by the inferior turbinated bone, anteriorly, where it is broader, by the upper maxillary bone, and posteriorly, where it is contracted, by the palate bone. 361. The only thing remarkable that this meatus presents, is the inferior orifice of the nasal canal, which is situated anteriorly, and concealed by the lower turbinated bone : this aperture is in- chned a little obliquely backwards, and varies much as to its po- sition with respect to the entrance of the nostrils, being sometimes but a line or two distant from it, and sometimes upwards of a fin- ger's breadth. The nasal canal itself is formed by the upper max- illary bone, sometimes by itself, but more commonly united with the lower turbinated bone and the lachrymal bone: it ascends to- wards the lachrymal canal by describing a slight curve, the con- vexity of which is turned forwards and outwards ; it is narrower at the middle than at the extremities; its diameters are not all equal. It being a little compressed: it is lined by a mucous membrane. 362. We have already spoken of the anterior and posterior aper- tures of the nasal fossfe, (325, 331) ; the very numerous bones of which these cavities are composed, are the sphenoid and ethmoid bones, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the frontal bone, the up- per maxillary, palate, and nasal bones, the inferior turbinated bones, and the vomer. OF THE SUTURES FORMED BY THE UNION OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE. 363. Almost all the points at which these two parts come into contact present sutures with very distinct denticulations. Thus there is one situated transversely above the nose, and formed by