OP THE ORGANIZATION OK THE PENIS. S13 scrotum. Its volume then varies much, not only in difTcrcnt in- dividuals, but also in the same person, from a multitude of differ- ent causes. During erection, it elongates, assumes a triangular form, and rises more or less upward. Its upper surface or back looks forwards in the ordinary state, and is directed backwards during erection ; the course of the dor- sal vein is seen at its middle part. Its loiver surface is turned in the contrary direction to that of the upper; it rests upon the scrotum, and presents a middle longitudinal prominence formed by the urethra and the continuation of the raphe of the perinjeum (2964.) This prominence is bounded on each side by a shallow groove. The two sides of the penis are rounded. Its posterior extremity. or root is connected with the walls of the pelvis. Its anterior ex- tremity is free, and presents the glans, the prepuce, and the orifice of the urethra. OEGANIZATION OF THE PENIS. 2993. The penis is formed by the corpus cavernosum, the prin- cipal seat of erection ; the urethra, destined for the transmission of the semen; the corpus spongiosum urethrcB, terminated by the I glans; by vessels, nerves, and a cutaneous envelope which gives I rise to the jifepuce. OF THE INTEGUMENTS OF THE PENIS, AND OF THE PREPUCE. 2994. The skin of the penis is continuous with that of the scro^ (■tum and pubes. It is thin, less white than that of the other re- ! gions of the body, furnished with a great number of sebaceous foU i licles, especially at the lower part of the organ, and surmounted I posteriorly with a few hairs whose extremity is turned forwards, i it has below it a layer of cellular tissue, very loose at first, but v-which becomes dense, whitish, and as if membraneous in propor- ftion as it is examined nearer the corpus cavernosum. This tis- t-sue never contains fat. It is manifestly continuous with the sus- jpensory ligament of the penis and with the septum of the dartos. lit is traversed by a very great number of veins and n6rvous fila- iments. ^995. At the free extremity of the penis, the skin forms a more for less considerable prolongation, terminated by an aperture vary- iing in width in different subjects ; this is the prepuce, the use of »which is to envelope and protect the glans. ' 2996. The prepuce appears composed of two membraneous layers, between which is a plane of cellular tissue. The external layer is formed by the skin which we have just described; the ji: internal which is of a mucous nature, lines the inner surface of