823 OF THE VAGINA. OF THE VAGINA. GENEllAL CONFOKMATION. 3029- The Vagina is a membraneous, cylindrical canal, com- pressed from before backwards, placed in the interior of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, opening inferiorly at the middle of the vulva, and embracing superiorly the neck of the uterus. From six to eight inches long, slightly curved upon itself, and con- cave on the side next the bladder, shorter before than behind, somewhat narrower at its two extremities than at its middle part, the vagina is directed a little obliquely from above downwards, and from behind forwards, or is almost vertical. 3030. Outer Surface. Anteriorly and posteriorly, it is invested above by the peritoneum over a very small extent. Anteriorly and inferiorly, it is in contact with the bladder and m*ethra. Posterior- ly and inferiorly, it rests upon the rectum. It is connected with these different organs by a rather dense cellular tissue. On the sides, it corresponds above to the broad ligaments of the uterus, and below to a mass of cellular tissue which separates it from the levatores ani muscles, and in which creep the uterine and vesical vessels, and the umbilical artery. 3031. Inner Surface. The walls of the cavity of the vagina are in contact with each other in their ordinary state, and invested with a more or less thick layer of mucus. Its cavity is dilated in the ratio of the births and the frequency of coition. The anterior wall is intersected longitudinally and in the middle ; by a narrow and elongated ridge, more distinct on the side next the vulva than near the uterus: in the former direction it even fi-e- quently foi'ms a pretty prominent tubercle beneath the orifice of the urethra. On the posterior wall a similar but less apparent ridge is observed. These two walls present, moreover, a great number of transverse wrinkles, which are effaced on the sides, and which arc much more prominent and more numerous in the vici- nity of the vulva than near the uterus, where they follow all sorts of directions. All these ruga? are intersected at right angles by "the two longitudinal ridges of which we have spoken, and are en- iitirely formed by the mucous membrane which lines the canal. 3032. The upper eaitremity of the Vay ina is fixed around the upper part of the neck of the uterus, a little higher behind than [ before. The lower ewtremity ioxms in the vulva a fissure elon- gated from above downwards, and from before backwards. OllGANlZATION OF THE VAGINA. 303.3. The vagina is lined by a mucous membrane, around which there arc observed a layer of erectile spongy tissue, and an-