ORGANS OF SENSATION. 550 iris, hyaloid membrane, &c.; or fluids, as the aqueous and vitreous humours; or, lastly, bodies of a peculiar nature, as the crystalline lens and the ciliary circle. Nerves and vessels are also met with in it. We proceed to examine these different constituent parts in succession. OF THE SCLEROTICA. 1953. The Sclerotica* {Cornea. Opaca), is a hard, opaque, tougli substance, of a pearly white colour, occupying about four-fifths o1 the ball of the eye, and having the form of a sphere truncated an- teriorly. It is of a fibrous structure, and is the strongest and most i external of the membranes of the eye. It is thinner anteriorly than posteriorly; near the entrance of the optic nerve it is a line, whereas in the vicinity of the cornea it is no more than the third I of a line, but here it is strengthened by the expansion of the ape neurosis of the recti and obliqui muscles which seem to be identi fled with it, and which some authors have designated under the name of Tunica albuginea. 1954. The outer surface of the sclerotica has the same rela 1 tions as the ball of the eye itself; the inner is lined by the choroi(' membrane, with which it is feebly connected by nervous filament vessels, and a very delicate lamellar tissue of a peculiar naturi These too surfaces present, in various points of their extent, prin cipally at the back part, small holes for the passage of the ciliar vessels and nerves. These holes are the orifices of canals runnin obliquely in the substance of the membrane, and cohtinumg ante- riorly upon its inner surface in the form of slight grooves. Behind and a little inwards, the sclerotica is perforated with ; rounded aperture for the passage of the optic nerve (1630). Some- times, in place of a single aperture, there is a multitude of sraal holes, among which are observed one or two larger than the rest ■which belong to the central artery and vein of the retina. It i; there that the continuity of the membrane with the sheath whicl the dura mater furnishes to the optic nerve, is manifestly seen Anteriorly, the sclerotica presents a circular aperture, the diaraetei of which is about six lines, somewhat larger however transverselj than from above downwards, and whose circumference, which i; sloped at the expense of the inner surface, receives the cornea, 1955. In the adult, the sclerotica is only formed of a single la mina the fibres of which are so interlaced that it is difl[lcult to dis' tinguish them. Although at first sight no organization is discern ible in it, it is shown by maceration to be in reahty composed 0 fibrous filaments and small laminae intermingled in an irregula manner. It contains very few blood-vessels, and those which i h^s are capillary. No nerves or lymphatics have as yet been dis * 2»x»g«f, durus, crassus.