ORGANS OF emCULATION. 694 the brachialis intcrnus and pronator teres and flexor carpi radialLs muscles. It then ascends towards the fore part of the inner con- dyle, where it anastomoses with the ramus anastomoticus (2455). It is of small size, and gives twigs to the pronator teres, flexor carpi yadialis and flexor digitorum sublimis muscles, the periosteum of thq humerus and the integuments. 2482. In the fore-arm, the ulnar artery gives off branches whicli are distinguished into internal, external, and anterior. 2483. Internal Branches. The largest and most constant is the Posterior Ulnar Recurrent Artery, {Art. recurrens ulnaris posterior), which much exceeds the anterior in size, and comes off from the ulnar artery a little lower than it, and sometimes along with it. It descends at first inwards, behind the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis and flexor digitorum subhmis, and before the flexor digitorum profundus. It then ascends behind the inner condyle, between that eminence and the olecranon, beside the ul- nar nerve, passes between the two origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris (•1159), and anastomoses with the deep humeral (2451) and the ramus anastomoticus (2455). It gives off a great number of twigs which arc distributed to the flexor muscles of the fingers, flexor carpi ulnaris, and triceps extensor muscles, to the ligaments of the elbow joint, and to the ulnar nerve and integuments. 2484. Nothing can be less regular as to number and dispo- sition than the other internal branches. One of them however, which is somewhat larger than the rest, separates from the ulnar artery at its lowest part, and goes to unite with the dorsal artery of the carpus, or to lose itself upon the corresponding edge of the Hand. 2485. Ext^nal Branches. Very numerous and small, they almost all throw themselves into the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris. One of them however is constant in its occur- rence ; it follows the inferior edge of the pronator quadratus, and goes to communicate with a similar branch of the radial artery (2463). 2486. Anterior Branches. They are very numerous, and are all distributed to the superficial and anterior muscles of the fore- arm. One of them only, which is longer and larger than the Others, and sometimes arises from the interosseal artery, descends behind the median nerve as far as the lower part of the fore-arm, and gives oft" laterally a great number of small twigs to the flexor digitorum sublimis. OF THE INTEROSSEAL ARTERY. 2487- The Interosseal Artery, (Arteria interossea), comes from the posterior part of the ulnar, a little beneath the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, and is always of considerable size. It di- rects itself horizontally backwards, and almost immediately divides