ORGANS OF SENSATION. 524 From its entrance into the tympanum to this union, the filament of which we speak commonly bears the name of Chorda Tipnpani. It remains united to the lingual nerve until oppo.site the sub- maxillary gland, where it leaves it to go to the ganglion of the same name. OF THE OTHER NERVOUS GANOLIA OF THE HEAD. I873. Besides those described above, the following ganglia arc met with in the head. 1. The Cavernous Ganglion. This ganglion does not always exist, being frequently substituted by a small plexus, which the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganglion form around the internal carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. Its colour is of a pretty deep reddish gray, its volume generally small, and its form variable. It is placed at the outer side of the internal ca- rotid artery, towards the middle of the cavernous sinus, and sends oft' very slender filaments which proceed towards the sixth pair and ophthalmic nerves. It frequently sends one to the nasal nerve, to communicate with the ophthalmic ganglion. I have also seen it furnish a filament to the infundibulum. By its lower part, it communicates with the ascending filaments of the superior cervi- cal ganglion. 2. The Naso-yalatine Ganglion. I discovered this in the an- terior palatine foramen,* at the point of union of the two branches of which, it is situated. It is a small reddish spongy mass, some- what hard and as if fibro-cartilaginous, and immersed in an adipose cellular tissue. Its more ordinary form is that of an ovoid, whose large extremity, directed upwards, receives the two naso-palatine twigs, (1867), while the small extremity sends oflF inferiorly one or two filaments which enter into small bony canals of their own, and arrive at the palatine arch, where they ramify in the membrane of the palate, anastomosing with filaments of the great palatine nerve, (1869). 3. The Suh-Maxillary Ganglion. It occurs opposite the sub- maxillary gland, and seems formed by the upper twig of the vidian nerve. It has also some filaments of communication with the lin- gual nerve of the inferior maxillary (I667) ; but the greater num- ber of its filaments form a small plexus, the twigs of which pene- trate the gland. 4. Another ganglion is mentioned as occurring in the head, along the course of the superficial temporal nerve; but it is mere- ly an enlargement of that nerve where it is covered by the parotid gland (I67O). " See my Dissertalion srir la Odeum, mir Ic sens ct ks organes dc I'olfaction, &c. Paris, 1815, ito. 4<