ORGANS OF SENSATION. 1G25. The olfactory nerves differ from all the other ncrvf-s in the following circumstances: : Their trunk has three roots, which the two substances of the brain concur to form. It converges towards that of the opposite side as it advances. Its form is that of a triangular prism. It is lodged in a particular groove of the brain. The arachnoid membrane does not furnish it with a sheath, and only covers it on one of its surfaces. It is entirely soft and pulpy. It has no neurilema. Its filaments do not anastomose with those of any other nerve. They issue from the cranium by a great number of holes. OF THE SKCOND PAIIl OF NEUV-ES, Oil OPTIC NEUVES. 162G. The optic nerves (Nervi optici), are more voluminous than the preceding, and than all the other nerves which issue from the head, with the exception of the fifth pair, and are remarkable for the circumstance of their course being longer within than on the outside of the cranium, and for their not furnishing a single branch from their origin to their termination; they do not come from the thalami of that name, as they are pretty generally de- scribed doing, but evidently .appear to issue from the tubercula quadrigemina. In fact, the anterior pair of these tubercles (nates) furnish a white fibrous band, which tui-ns over the outer edge of the optic thalami, and is reinforced by joining itself intimately to the corpus geniculatum ewternum, (1533) a kind of bulging formed of cineritious matter. Thus far the band adheres by the whole of one of its surfaces to the optic thalamus; but it nowl passes under the crus of the brain, to which it is only attached byB its outer and anterior edge. T IC27. Immediately after their origin, the optic nerves proceed! forwards and inwards, leaving the fissure, separating the middle lobes from the cerebral protuberance, in which they were at first concealed. When they have arrived beyond the crura cerebri, they cease to be broad and flat; they contract and become round- ed, are exposed under the floor of the third ventricle, and adhere to the layer of gray substance (tuber cinereum) which chiefly forms it. This layer sends to the upper surface of the nerve se- veral white filaments, which do not cross each other, but are unit- ed to each of its sides, following a straight line. ' 1628. At the fore part of the sella turcica, the two optic nerves unite, without its being possible, however, to affirm in a positive manner whetlier they cross each other, so that the left nerve passes . to the right, and the right to the left, or whether the substance i.*; f mingled and identified in this place, which appears more probable; but comparative anatomy and pathological affections furnish near- .