272 ACTIVE OUGANS OF LOCOMOTION. process, is reflected from above downwards over the base of that process, to; proceed to the posterior edge of the coronoid process. 949. The temporal muscle strongly, raises the lower jaw, lowers the upper a little, and presses the teeth against each other. The posterior portion draws the jaw backwards, when it has been car- ried forward by the action of the external pterygoid muscles. 950. The dissection of this muscle is to be performed by remov- ing the parts which cover its external surface (948) ; by this the aponeurosis is exposed, Avhich is now to be removed by dissecting from above downwards in the direction of the fibres of the muscle, which should be stretched by depressing the lower jaw. OF THE PTERYGOIDEUS INTERNUS. 951. This is a strong and thick muscle, situated internally of, and a little behind, the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone. It arises from the whole pterygoid fossa, and particularly from the inner surface of the outer wing of the pterygoid process, by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, which partly pass in the form of pretty strong fasciculi among the fleshy fibres, and are partly applied over the inner surface of the muscle. It descends backwards and out- wards, after receiving fibres from the middle groove of the upper surface of the palatine tuberosity, and some others from the outside of the summit of the outer wing of the pterygoid process. It then becomes thinner, and terminates on the inside of the angle of the jaw by aponeuroses, equally long and distinct with those of its origin, which are attached to the more or less prominent ridges that are observed in this place. 952. Its inner surface covers, at its upper part, the circum- flexus palati and constrictor pharyngis superior, and inferiorly the sub-maxillary gland. The outer surface lies internally upon the branch of the lower jiiw, much in the same manner as the mas- seter does externally. It is separated from that bone above by an interval, in which are found the lingual and dentar nerves, the in- ferior dentar artery, and internal lateral ligament of the temporo- maxillary articulation. 953. When the two muscles act simultaneously, the jaw is rais- ed and carried a little forwards. If one only contracts, it carries it a little obhquely toward the opposite side. When the lower jaw is fixed, they depress the upper. OF THE PTEUYGOIDEIJS EXTERNUS. 954. This muscle, which is short, is situated in the zj^gomatic fossa. It has two origins, one from the outer surface of the ptery- goid process and from the palatine tuberosity, the other from the lower part of the zygomato-tcmporal aspect of the sphenoid bone