0¥ THE METATAHSAL BONES. 159 ^vhicll articulates with the middle of these bones ; internally a flat rough surface, oft which there is observed, at the upper part, an articulating surface for the internal cuneiform bone ; externally, two articular surfaces, situated one above another, and separated by a depression, which are articulated with two corresponding sur- faces of the third metatarsal bone ; behind, and continuous with these siufaces, is a hnear facet, by which this bone is connected with the external cuneiform. At the upper part, this extremity is terminated by a rough flattened surface, which forms its base ; at the lower part, by a narrow uneven edge, which represents its sum- mit. The anterior or phalangeal extremity of this bone, which is also named the head, is convex, transversely compressed, more ex- tended below than above, and articulates with the first phalanx of the second toe. It is marked internally and externally by de- pressions, which give attachment to the lateral ligaments of this articulation. There is also observed upon it, at its upper part, a superficial groove, which separates the head from the rest of the bone. OF THE THIRD METATARSAL BONE. 529. It is a little shorter than the second, but has nearly the same form. Its body, which is prismatic, presents a con- vex superior surface, divided into two parts by a prominent line, which gives attachment to the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles; two lateral surfaces, which correspond to the same muscles ; and an inferior edge, which is thin, •concave, and gives insertion to the first plantar interosseous muscle. Its posterior or ta7'sal extremity is nearly of the same form, as that of the preceding bone; it presents posteriorly a flat triangular surface, directed inwards, which articulates with the ex- ternal cuneiform bone; internally, two small surfaces, continuous ■ posteriorly, but separated anteriorly by a slight depression, which articulate with the second matatarsal bone ; externally, a concave surface, which is connected with the fourth metatarsal bone, and which is limited below by ligamentous impressions. The base of this extremity is turned upwards, flat and rough; its summit, which looks downwards, gives attachment to ligaments. The anterior or phalangeal extremity of this bone resembles that of the 1 preceding, and is articulated to the first phalanx of the third toe. OF THE FOURTH METATARSAL BONE. 530. The fourth metatarsal bone has nearly the same form as tiie third, but is a little shorter than it. The ?4per surface of its ooay 18 narrow, and also divided into two by a prominent line ; it gives attachment to the third and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles. Its outer surface is narrow and rounded ; the inner iircscnts the same