OF THE ENCEPHALIC MEMBRANES. pretty difficult to separate these two membranes from each other r the scalpel, excepting in the foetus or in very young children. 1590. Internal Arachtioid Membrane. In proceeding from the irpus callosum over the cerebellum, the arachnoid membrane, hich has here become extremely thin, dives into the third ventri- 0 by an oval aperture which Bichat first discovered. This aper- n o is the orifice of a canal formed in the portion of the pia mater liich goes to constitute the tela choroidea (1586), and which em- races on all sides the vensE Galeni and their numerous roots, to Inch the arachnoid membrane furnishes an envelope. This ca- al is afterwards prolonged under these veins, between thei pineal laud and the tubercula quadrigemina, and opens into the third entricle, beneath the velum interpositum. It is from thence that hhe arachnoid membrane proceeds to line the walls of the third ven- rricle, and the lower surface of the velum interpositum. It then i!)asses, by means of the communicating apertures, into the lateral eentricles, where it covers the choroid plexuses, closing the fissure r^hich exists between the fornix, the corpora fimbriata, and the op- idc thalami. Lastly, by the aqueduct of Sylvius (1550) it descends imto the ventricle of the cerebellum, all the apertures of which it loses. 1591. Red vessels have not yet been observed in this mem- lorane, even when it is inflamed. Mascagni and Ludwig assert iheir having seen lymphatic vessels in it, but no nerves have been fliscovered. GRANULATIONS OF THE ENCEPHALIC MEMBRANES. 1592. There are observed, in various parts of the dura mater ■and pia mater, certain small bodies of a whitish or yellowish co- lour, sometimes isolated, sometimes collected together in the form of a bunch of grapes, which receive vessels, but are destitute of nerves, of whose intimate texture and uses we are entirely ignorant, land which are not met with in children or in all subjects. The superior longitudinal sinus contains a remarkable quantity Ibf them, particularly at its middle and posterior parts. They were formerly designated by the name of Glands of Facchioni, al- though they are very diflPerent from glandular organs. These gra- nulations generally occupy in this sinus the circumference of the orifices of the veins, where they form a more or less distinct pro- minence between the internal bridles. Very few of them are iso- lated, almost all being agglomerated into small masses, and inti- mately connected with each other. They are covered by the in- ternal membrane of the sinus. In the torcular Herophili very few of them are observed. But there arc some at the mouths of the veins, in the occipital portion of the lateral sinuses. In the straight sinuses some are occasion-