OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVES. mb-f^astric nerve has the form of a round cord. All the filaments which compose it anastomose with each other for the extent of about an inch, and give it the appearance of a very close and dense plexus, and sometimes that of a ganglion. In this part, it is al- ways a little swollen, and has a grayish tint. It is also there inti- mately connected with the hypoglossal, spinal accessory and glosso- pharyngeal nerves by a dense, firm, strongly adherent cellular tis- sue, destitute of adipose substance, in Avhich are also immersed the ascending filaments of the superior cervical ganglion. 1702. The pneumo-gastric nerve is at first placed before the hypoglossal, but almost immediately becomes posterior to it as it descends, and is entirely separated from it opposite the transverse process of the atlas. It then passes over the rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, externally of the common carotid artery and behind the internal jugular vein, to which it is united, as well as to the communicating cord of the cervical ganglia, by cellular tissue. Arrived at the inferior part of the neck, the trunk of the pneu- mo-gastric nerve enters the thorax, gliding behind the subclavian vein, and is differently distributed to the right and left. In the right side, it passes before the subclavian artery; in the left, before the arch of the aorta. It passes at first backwards, and increases in size. When situated behind the trunks of the bronchi, it leaves them to accompany the oesophagus through the diaphragm, and terminates upon the stomach. In the latter part of its course, the nerve of the right side is manifestly placed much farther back than that of the left side. 1703. In the interior of the foramen lacerum posterius, the pneumo-gastric nerve sends off one or two filaments to anastomose with the spinal accessory nerve, and, on emerging, it communi- cates with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (1697) ^7 another filament which describes a curve, from the convexity of which some rami- fications to the rectus capitis anticus major arise. It also anas- tomoses with the hypoglossal nerve, and with ramifications of the superior cervical ganglion. 1 /04. Pharyngeal Twig. Close upon the filament of commu- nication with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and either above or beneath it, the pneumo-gastric nerve gives off to the walls of the pharynx a twig of considerable size, which at its origin ^ joined by a filament of the spinal accessory nerve. This twig descends obliquely inwards behind the internal carotid artery, whose direction it crosses, and to which it is closely united opposite the atlas; there, it furnishes one or two filaments which unite with those which the glosso-pharyngeal nerve sends around that artery, and forms with them a kind of reticulated plexus which embraces it. Ihe twig then approaches the pharynx, increases considerably in size, and divides into a great number of filaments towards the upper edge of the constrictor pharyngis mcdius. These filaments anas- tomose in a multitude of different directions with filaments of the