ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 378 interosseous ligament, tlic tibia, the anterior tibial artery, the ankle joint, and the back of the foot and great toe. 1400. This muscle extends the last phalanx of the great toe upon the first, and the latter upon the first metatarsal bone. It also bends the foot upon the leg, or the leg upon the foot. OF THE EXTENSOR LONGUS COMMUNIS DIGITORUM I'EDIS. 1401. Elongated, thin, transversely flattened, simple and fleshy above, divided into four tendons below, this muscle arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, between the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus, from the two aponeurotic partitions which sepa- rate it from each of these muscles, from the anterior ligament of the upper articulation of the tibia and fibula, ('J2']), from the in- terosseous ligament, from the fore part of the fibula over a space of five or six inches, and from the tibial aponeurosis at the upper part of its inner surface. The fleshy fibres proceeding from these different insertions follow various directions. The upper are ver- tical, the lower more and more oblique ; they form a mass which descends obliquely inwards, and is larger in the middle than at its extremities; they are all inserted into a tendon which is at first concealed in their substance, and appears upon their anterior sur- face about .the middle of the leg, being accompanied by them pos- teriorly as far as the annular ligament of the tarsus. Long before arriving there, the fleshy fibres and the tendon are divided into three contiguous portions, which pass beneath it in a groove in- vested Avith a very distinct synovial capsule, which is common to them with the tendon of the peroneus tertius (1404). At this moment, the inner portion bifurcates, so that upon the back of the foot there are perceived four tendons which separate from each other, directing themselves toward the four last toes, and crossing the direction of the extensor brevis digitorum ; the inner is ob- viously stronger than the others, and the outer frequently receives ci fibrous prolongation from the tendon of the peroneus brevis. Arrived upon the upper surface of the phalanges, the first three are united with the inner edge of the tendons of the extensor brevis digitorum, and they are all strengthened by a prolongation of the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei. They then become broader, and form a sort of aponeurosis which covers the whole up- per surface of the toes, dividing and terminating precisely in the same manner as the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum manus (1187). , . 1402. The anterior edge of this muscle is covered by the tibial aponeurosis to which it adheres above, the annular ligament of the tarsus, and the skin. The posterior covers the fibula, the inter- osseous ligament, the tibia, the ankle-joint, the extensor brevis di- gitorum, and the toes. The inner corresponds to the tibialis anti- cus and extensor proprius pollicis, and is united above with the