113 OF THE OS INNOMINATUM. 388. Articulations and Development. The coccyx, which is articulated solely to the sacrum, commences its development with . four or five points of ossification, one for each of its portions. I have, however, sometimes observed three distinct centres in the first piece. Occasionally, also, the second and third pieces are each de- veloped by two lateral bony nuclei. The cartilages, of which it is entirely formed in the fcetus, ossify later than those of the sacrum. It is further to be observed, that the coccyx unites with the sacrum earlier in the male than in the female, in whom it is moreover longer and more curved. OF THE OS INJJOMINATUM. 389. Form. The Os innominatum (os coxarum,* os iliacum),f which is adouble unsymmetrical bone, of a quadrilateral form, curved upon itself in two different directions, as if it had been twisted, con- tracted in the middle, and of a very uregular figure, is the largest of, all the flat bones, and occupies the lateral and anterior parts of the pelvis. It is divided into the following parts :— 390. Femoral or External Aspect. This is at its upper part directed outwards, backwards, and downwards ; at its lower part, forwards. In its upper and posterior portion, there is observed a narrow, convex, uneven surface, to which is attached the gluteus maximus muscle. This surface, which is terminated beneath by a low circular ridge, named the Upper Curved Line, surmounts an- other broader surface, concave behind, and contracted at its fore part, into which the gluteus medius is inserted; this surface is in like manner bounded by a ridge named the Lower Curved Line^ which proceeds from the sciatic notch, to unite with the Uiac crest, and receives an aponeurosis belonging to the gluteus medius. A little more downwards is observed the orifice of a canal which trans- mits vessels to the bone, in the middle of a very large convex sur- face, which gives insertion to the fibres of the gluteus minimus, and which, at its anterior and lower part, presents inequahties, into which the cvirved tendon of the rectus femoris is inserted. All this portion of the external surface which we have been describing, forms a sort of wide fossa, alternately concave and convex, which some anatomists designate by the name oi External Iliac Fossa. 391. Proceeding downwards and forwards, this surface presents, the cotyloid\ cavity, or acetabulum, which is nearly hemispherical, inchnes obUquely outwards, forwards, and downwards, and is co- vered with cartilage, excepting in its bottom, where a rough de- pression is seen, which in the recent state is filled by one of the 80 called glands of Havers. This cavity has a diameter of about " Cox(r, the haunches. t rhis name is derived from the circumstance that these bones support the parts which tile ancients named Ilia, that is to say, the flanks. + ViiruXi:, a kind of cup. I