110 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. To the outside of these holes, there is observed a series of emi- nences, whieh seem to be analogous to the articular processes of the vertebrae ; and above them, are seen, on each side, two de- pressions into which are inserted the sacro-iliac hgaments. 374. A Pelvic or Anterior Aspect. This, which is smooth and concave, is traversed by four prominent lines, indicating the union of the different pieces of which the bone is composed in childhood, which are separated by superficial, transverse grooves, which seem to correspond to the anterior aspect of the bodies of the vertebrae: the highest of these grooves is convex transversely, the next is plain, the others concave. On thf lateral parts are the Anterior Sacral Foramina, (foramina sacralia anteriora) which give pas- sage to the anterior branches of the nerves of this name; they are four on each side, and larger and more rounded than the posterior, with which they communicate by the sacral canal. To the outside of these holes, which also diminish in size from above downwards, is a surface which gives attachment to the pyramidalis muscle, and is marked with some broad grooves, having various directions, the upper transverse, the others becoming more oblique, from below upwards, in succession : these grooves terminate in the sacral holes, and are occupied by the nerves which issue from them. This part of the bone appears to be nothing else than an aggregation of pieces corresponding to the transverse processes of the vertebrae. 375. Two Iliac or Lateral Aspects. These aspects, which are very uneven, broad above and narrow below, present at the upper part an irregular rough space, of an oval form, with a notch be- hind, which is articulated to a similar surface belonging to the os innominatum; it is directed obliquely backwards, and, with refer- ence to the median Une, inwards, and is narrower below than above. The rest of these aspects is uneven for the attachment of the sacro- sciatic ligaments; at their lowest part, there is observed a small notch for the passage of the fifth pair of sacral nerves. 376. A Base, which is directed upwards and a little forwards, and is largest in the transverse diameter. In the middle and an- teriorly, it is surmounted by a transverse oval surface, placed ob- liquely to correspond with the body of the last vertebra, with which it is articulated, (63) by the medium of the last intervertebral car- tilage. On its sides is observed a smooth surface, transversely concave, convex from before backwards, inclined forwards, covered by the anterior sacro-ihac ligaments, and continuous with the iliac fossa. Behind the articular surface, is observed the orifice of the Sacral Canal, (canalis nervorum medulloi spinalis^, of a trian- gular form, more open behind than before, and giving attachment by its two lateral margins, to the last of the ligamenta flava. This orifice is limited, on either side, by a concave articular process, directed backwards and inwards, which unites with that of the last vertebra; it is detached from the rest of the bone anteriorly and on the sides by a pretty deep groove, which along with the inferior notch of that vertebra, forms the last intervertebral foramen.