PARENCHYMA OF THE LlVEIl. 789 of the fossa destined to lodge the gall-bladder. It is equally want- ing in the interval of the two laminae of the suspensory ligament, as it is of itself that this alleged ligament is formed. 2899. Deep or Cellular Envelope. It is much more extended than the superficial, for it covers all the parts of the liver upon which the peritoneum is not applied, and is prolonged into the substance of that viscus, forming sheaths which accompany the branches and twigs of the vena portae and hepatic artery, as weU as the roots of the hepatic duct. They adhere to the parenchyma of the liver by numerous filaments, and do not present the least ap- pearance of the muscular structure which Glisson attributed to them. In general very thin, although pretty dense, this envelope is much more apparent in the places of the surface of the liver where it exists alone, than in those where it is in connexion with the peritoneum, to which it adheres in a pretty intimate manner. BLOOD-VESSELS AND LYMPHATICS OF THE LIVER. 2900. They are very numerous. Some of them carry the blood to the liver: such are the hepatic artery (2518), the vena portas (2757), and, in the foetus, the umbilical vein. Others carry it off, after it has resided for some time in the organ : these are the hepa- tic veins (2746). We have already described all these vessels. The lymphatics of the liver have also been described (2826, 2829). They 9,j:e extremely numerous. Its nerves are also very abundant, They come from the pneumo-gastric nerve (1712), the phrenic nerve (1737) and the hepatic plexus (1916). PAIIENCHYMA OF THE LIVER. 2901. Considered with respect to its interior, the substance of the liver presents a reddish or yellowish tint superadded to the brown colour of its surface. Its general aspect is porous, from the great number of small vessels which have been divided in cutting it. There are moreover observed in it small yeUow dots irregularly disseminated, which correspond to the radicles of the excretory ducts of the bile. Another remarkable fact is, that the nature of the vessels which traverse the parenchyma of the liver in different directions, is indicated by the direction which they follow : thus, the branches of tlie vena portae and hepatic artery, and the roots of the hepatic duct, proceed horizontally in the direction of the great diameter of the liver, while the trunks of the hepatic veins cfirect themselves in a converging manner towards its posterior edge. rFurther, the orifices of the divided branches of the vena portae arc collapsed, and those of tlic hepatic veins remain circular : this