ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. inanncr that each of them is dispersed over several vertcbr.x- by f;isciculi of different lengths, and terminates all at once at the third, fourtl), and fifth vertebrae above that from which it arises. Each of the spinous processes also receives at the same time tendons from three or four of the fleshy bundles which are beneath it. Pretty frequently also in the neck, other deeper bundles proceed from the transverse process of one vertebra to the spinous process and lower edge of the lamina of the one immediately above. 858. The posterior surface of all these muscles is covered, in the neck, by the complexus, the deep cervical artery, and the pos- terior branclics of the cervical nerves ; and in the back and loins, by the longissimus dorsi. The anterior surface covers the lamin;e of the vertebrie, their transverse and articular processes, and the liganienta flava. The inner surface is applied upon the spinous processes, the intcrspinales cervicis, and the dorsal and lumbar in- terspinal ligaments. 859. These muscles have nearly the same uses as the sacro- lumbalis and longissimus dorsi; but have also some peculiar to themselves. In the standing .posture, they balance the vertebral column upon the pelvis, by their sacral and lumbar fasciculi, >vhich, by contracting, furnish also solid points of support for the dorsal and cervical fasciculi. Moreover, by acting on one side, they produce a slight lateral inflection with rotation of the vertebral column ; or they may also impress motion of rotation on any parti- cular vertebra, according as an individual fasciculuij acts by itself. OF THE INTEIISFTNALES CKttVlCIS, 860. The Interspinales cervicis are twelve in number, and oc- cupy, in two parallel rows close to each other, the intervals be- tween the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae, from that of the atlas and axis, to that which exists between the last vertebra of the neck and the first of the back. Each space contains two. They are so many thin, flat, quadrilateral fasciculi, arising, by short aponeuroses, from the sides of the lower edge of the spinous process of the vertebra above, and terminating in the same manner at the upper edge of the vertebra below. Their outer surface is covered by the multifidus spina}; the inner is separated by cellu- lar tissue from that of the opposite muscle. 861. The interspinales cervicis bring the spinous processes near each other, and thus contribute to the extension of the neck, and, consequently, to the projection of the bead backwards. The interspinales muscles of "the loins are very indistinct; in the back they may be said to be wanting. 4-