OF THE GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. the crura of the diaphragm, applied upon the vertebral column ; .passes beliind the stomach, a little above the supra-renal capsule, divides into several slightly divergent twigs, and almost immediate- ly after terminates in the semilunar ganglion. OF THE SMALL SPLANCHNIC NEllVE, (^Nervits splanchnicus minor). 1909- It is composed of two distinct twigs, from the tenth and eleventh thoracic ganglia, which directing themselves obliquely downwards and inwards, unite on the twelfth dorsal vertebra, into .a small cord which perforates the diaphragm separately, penetrates into the abdomen, and divides into two twigs, one of which ascends .to anastomose with the trunk of the great splanchnic nerve, while the other throws itself into the renal plexus and partly into the .solar. OF THE GANGLIA OF THE ABDOMEN. OF THE SEMILUNAR GANGLIA AND SOLAR PLEXUS. (Ganglion semi-lunare et Plexus Solaris). 1910. The Semilunar Ganglia, a£ which there are two, one to the right and the other to the left, and which are of a much greater size than any that we have hitherto described, are oblong, ; sigmoid, concave above, convex below, and lie partly upon the crura of the diaphragm, partly upon the aorta, opposite the coeliac 1 trunk, above the supra-renal capsule and a little more backwards. By their upper and outer extremity, these ganglia manifestly re- ( ceive the great splanchnic nerves, while by the lower, which is t turned inwards, they communicate with each other, either directly, ' which frequently happens, so that they form a single ganglion, or 1 .by a short twig of greater or less size, or a bundle of filaments. That of the right side is generally larger than the other, and fre.- ( quently appears contracted in the middle. It is situated between t the right crus of the diaphragm and the vena cava abdominalis, t near the head of the pancreas. It is also commonly in contact 1 above with the supra-renal capsule, and below with the correspond- > Jng renal artery. That of the left side is placed upon the left crus '1 of the diaphragm, and frequently covers the diaphragmatic artery, » which evidently furnishes it with ramifications; the tail of the pan- creas lies upon it; its upper extremity is in contact with the sple- nic vein, and the lower with the left renal artery. 1911. The two semilunar ganglia, and especially the right, are .surrounded by a multitude of other ganglia very distinct from each