PASSIVE ORGANS OF L0C03I0TION. direction of the surfaces by which their articular processes cm^espond i to each other. These surfaces are invested with a very tliin car'ti- i laginous layer, which is covered by a small synovial membrane re- flected from the one over the other. This membrane is not very loose, and contains scarcely any synovia; it is pretty constantly covered with small bundles of ligamentous fibres, more or less se- parated and irregular, which proceed from the articular process of one vertebra to that of the opposite vertebra, and are more distinct in the back and loins than in the neck. At the inner part, it has connexions with the neighbouring ligamentum subflavum. AKTICULATIONS OF THE LAMINA OF THE VEIITEBII-E. 600. Yellow ligaments. (lAgamenta verfehrarum siihflam). These ligaments, which occupy the interlaminar spaces of the vertebne, from that which exists between the second and third, to that which separates the last from the saci-um, and complete the vertebral canal behind, are formed of a peculiar tissue, (16. F. ('.) very strong and firm, elastic, of a yellowish colour, and composed of vertical fibres. They are more ap- parent at the interior, than at the exterior of the vertebral canal, and each of them is divided into two portions, the one right the other left, angularly united toward the base of the spinous process, but in such a manner as to leave between them a small fissure, which is closed by cellular tissue. At the upper part of the neck, they are thin and narrow; they become thicker and broader in proportion as they descend, and in the loins acquire very considerable dimen- sions. Each portion of these ligaments has a quadrilateral form, and is I transversely elongated. Their miterior surface is connected with the dura mater of the spinal marrow, from which it is separated by a cellular tissue of which we have already had occasion to speak, (597) i it ^^^^ ^ smooth and polished appearance. The posterior surface., which is rough and uneven, is with difficulty perceived, especially in the dorsal region ; it is partly covered by the superior vertebral lamina, and partly by the multifidus spina? muscle. Their upper edge is attached to the inner surfixce of the laminas of the vertebra which is situated above; the lower edge is fixed to the very margin of the vertebral lamina placed beneath. Externally^ these hgaments are in contact with the synovial membrane of the articular processes, while interrially, toward the angle whicli they form at their union, they are continuous, in the back and loins, with the interspinal ligaments. AUTICULATIOXS of the STINOUS rROCESSES. 601. Tnf.ernpinal Ligaments, f membrana2 inierspiiuiks). These ligaments occupy the intervals of the spinous processes in the back 1