ORGANIZATION OF THE AURICLE. 561 and is equally traversed by radiating bridles, which make it appear oagged when the canal is distended, and as if composed of a row if beads placed at regular intervals. 1987. The structure of the hyaloid membrane is yet little .mown. It receives branches from the central artery of the retina. : t becomes crisped by the action of heat, and by that of concen- • rated acids. 1988. No part of this membrane is so dense and so thick, as the portion which forms the hollow destined for the reception of the nrystalline lens. No adliesion exists in this part between the hya- ioid membrane and that of the lens. They are equally smooth, md their contact is maintained by a kind of dew which lubricates Ihcir surfaces. ARTICLE SECOND. OF THE EAR AND ITS APPENDAGES. OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Of the Auricle. GENERAL CONFORMATION. 1989. The size of the Auricle (Pinna Auriculce), varies in dif- t'erent individuals, as well as its form, which is very irregular, but imay yet be compared in a general manner to that of an oval laaving its greatest diameter vertical, and its large extremity di^ iected upwards. Curved in various directions, and compressed r'rom without inwards, it is free above, below and behind ; but be- I'ore and internally it is continuous with the neighbouring parts. 1990. The ewternal surface of the auricle, which is commonly "-urned a little forwards, presents several remarkable prominences iind depressions, which are from above downwards, as follows. 1. The Helix, a kind of replication or rim of a nearly semicir- cular form, which commences towards the middle of the auricle, ibove the meatus auditorius, and at the centre of the concha. It directs itself at first forwards, then upwards, and curves backwards to descend at the back part of the circumference of the auricle, ^'hich is thus in a great measure surrounded by it. It is narrow and not very prominent at its extremities, but is of considerable breadth at its middle part. Its inferior extremity, which seems bifurcated, is continuous anteriorly with another eminence named the anti-kelix, and posteriorly with the lobe of the ear, of which we shall presently speak. 2 o 1