OF THE SOFT PARTS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. ^77 I wertical canals and the lower orifice of the posterior. Its convexity is turned backwards. 20i2. The three semicircular canals open therefore in the ves- ; tibule by five orifices only, and these orifices are unequal for each .canal in particular. Their walls are formed of a compact lamina, immersed in the spongy tissue of the petrous process. Their in- :tcrnal surface is smooth and polished. OF THE SOFT PAllTS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 2043. All the cavities of the internal ear are lined by a very Sne and delicate membrane. There is observed, moreover, in 1 each semicircular canal, a membraneous tube of a diameter much > smaller than the bony canal, and attached to the latter by a very (ifine mucous cellular tissue. The isolated orifices of the vertical canals and the anterior orifice of the horizoutal canal, are furnished each with an ampulla or membraneous enlargement which some- ti;imes disguises them. These three ampullje, as well as the oppo- >site extremities of those canals which are destitute of them, end in a common sac which occupies a portion of the vestibule. These iparts are filled with a humour which gives to the common sac the ipppearance of an air-bubble, and to the membraneous tubes that pf ylymphatic vessels, and the whole besides floats in the water of the iabyrinth. Another small sac contiguous to the preceding, but not commu- nicating with it, immediately lines the vestibule, and adheres strong- i\ly to its walls. It is filled with a humour of its own, and is cora- poosed of thick and strong coats, in which the vestibular ramifica- [idons of the acoustic nerve lose themselves. It sends a prolonga- ;!;ion, into the aqueduct of the vestibule, which terminates by a small cul-de-sac under the dura mater. In the substance of this mem- braneous sac, there occur small canals which are filled with mer- icury by pressure, when the cavities of the labyrinth are filled with that fluid. They communicate with each other, and open partly rinto the veins of the dura mater, or form a small sinus of their pwn, which throws itself into the lateral sinus of that membrane. I The membrane of the vestibule introduces itself into the cochlea iqy the orifice of the external scala. It passes along the latter in tsts whole extent, and descends again into the internal scala by the |riperture of the summit of the spiral lamina, to the fenestra rotun- ! da, near which it sends a prolongation into the aqueduct of the cochlea. This prolongation also terminates by a cul-de-sac under !the dura mater. 2044. The nature of this membrane is unknown; it is vascular n the child; but in the adult it becomes much less so, and is so chm, and adheres so strongly to the bone that it can scarcely be oerceiyed. It exhales a transparent, shghtly viscid fluid, which Ills all the cavities of the internal ear. 2 1'