MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 257 OF THE inter-tuansvehsales colli. 862. The Inter-transversales Colli are small, quadrilateral, thin, flat bundles, placed two and two in the intervals of the trans- verse processes of the neck, excepting between the first and second, where there is only one. They are distinguished into anterior and posterior; the former are six in number, the latter five. The two muscles of each interval are attached separately, the one to the anterior, the other to the posterior edge of the groove, which is ob- served on the transverse process below. They then ascend paral- lel to each other, and separated by the anterior branches of the cervical nerves, to be attached to the lower part of the transverse process above ; these insertions take place by means of short apo- neurotic fibres. The anterior inter-transversales colli are covered anteriorly by the rectus capitis anticus major. The posterior are covered behind by the splenius, transversalis colli, and sacro-lum- baUs. 863. These muscles draw the transverse processes of the neck toward each other, and contribute to the lateral inflexions of that part of the body. OF THE INTEIl-TRANSVERSALES LUMBORUM. 864. These muscles, which are all fleshy, and are ten in num- ber, five on each side, resemble the preceding in their general dis- position, only they are less distinct, and are not placed in two rows, each inter-transverse space containing only one. The first occu- pies the interval which exists between the transverse processes of the first lumbar, and the last dorsal vertebra : and the last occurs between those of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Their posterior surface corresponds to the sacro-lumbalis; the anterior to the quadratus lumborum. Their lower and upper edges are at- tached to the corresponding edges of the neighbouring transverse processes, by means of very short aponeurotic fibres. 865. These muscles bend the lumbar region of the vertebral column laterally, or raise it when it is inclined to the opposite side. They act, however, but feebly, on account of their weakness, and the closeness of their points of attachment and termination. OF THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR. 866. This muscle, which is elongated, flat, triangular, and much broader above than below, is situated behind the articulation of the head with the vertebral column. It is attached by short aponeu- roses, above the obliquus capitis inferior, to the tubercle of the spinous process of the axis, whence it ascends outwards and a little