508 ORGANS OF SENSATION. of all these twigs is the one which is called the Internal saphenua Nerve, which accompanies the vena saphena. It descends at first internally of the crural artery, receives a twig of the obturator nerve, passes under the sartorius muscle in the channel which the adductor raagnus forms (1356), gives several filaments to these muscles, emerges on the inside of the knee between the tendons of the adductor magnus and vastus internus, sends small twigs to the integuments, then, united to the inner vena saphena, ramifies like it, accompanying it in all its subdivisions, and descends as far as the first toe, after furnishing many cutaneous filaments. OF THE OBTURATOll NEEVE. (Nervus Obturatorius). 1813. It comes principally from the second and third lumbar nerves, and sometimes from the fourth. Smaller than the crural nerve, it descends at first almost vertically between the inner edge of the psoas magnus and the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra. It then follows the lateral and superior part of the excavation of the pelvis, running a little below the line of the upper strait, (404), accompanied by the obturator artery and vein, and placed under the former and above the latter. On arriving at the upper part of the obturator foramen, it gives off a twig which loses itself in the two obturator muscles ; it then passes through the foramen, and ar- rives at the iipper and inner part of the thigh, concealed by the pectineus and adductor longus ; there, it divides into two branches, an anterior and posterior. The anterior descends between the adductor brevis and adductor longus, and separates into two twigs, of which, the imier gives filaments to the first of these muscles, and loses itself in the upper part of the gracilis, while the outer be- longs .entirely to the latter muscle. Both also give off cutaneous ramifications, and furnish one or two anastomoses to the inner saphenus nerve, (1812). The posterior directs itself between the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, and loses itself in the latter after giving filaments to the obturator externus muscle. OF THE LUMBO-SACKAL NERVE. 1814. This nerve is double the size of the anterior crural, and formed by the anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, to which is united a large twig of the fourth. It descends into the pelvis before the sacrum, near the sacro-iliac symphysis, and unites with the sciatic plexus. In its course it furnishes a single branch, which is the glutaeal. 1815. GlutcBdl Nerve, (nermis glutcsus superior). It derives some roots from the sciatic plexus, issues by the sciatic notch above