OF THE NOSE IN GENERAL. 579 tion, and these variations depend upon its general figure or upon that of some of its parts only. - The variations which act upon the general conformation of the nose may be referred to three principal kinds, viz. 1st, the aquiline nose, elongated, a little pointed and inclined downwards ; 2dly, the Jlat iwse, which is very thick, and has its apertures directed more or less forwards; 3dly, the turned-up nose, in which the lobe is raised and more or less pointed. But besides these variations in the general form, others occur in each individual part. Thus the nostrils are .sometimes a mere slit, and in other cases much dilated. They may also be horizontal, or more or less oblique. The back of the nose is rectilinear in fiorae persons, while in others it is gibbous, curved, hollow, &c. ORGANIZATION OF THE NOSE. 2049. Besides the bones which we have already seen entering into the composition of this organ, and which we have described (230), there contribute to its formation the skin, cartilages, mus- cles, vessels and nerves, all of which parts are so disposed, that its upper region, which is more solid than the rest, more efficaciously protects the special organ of smell (1609), while the lower, which is less firm, but mobile, allows the apertures of the nostrils to be contracted, widened, or even closed, according to circumstances. 2050. Of the Skin of the Nose. Like that of the rest of the face, it is fine and smooth. No hairs are observed upon it. Its reticular tissue is especially very apparent. It is but loosely at- tached to the subjacent parts above; but below, and on the sides of the wings, it adheres very firmly to them. There is very little cellular tissue under the integuments of the nose. At the upper part of the organ, this tissue contains adipose vesicles ; but inferiorly it seems formed by a fibrous lamina which ascends towards the moveable aponeurosis of the pyramidaUs and triangularis nasi muscles (900, 908). 2051. The skin of the nose furnishes a kind of mild and mu- cous oil, which diffuses itself in the groove by which it is separat- ed from the cheek. This humour is produced by a multitude of small yellowish utricular follicles, which exist in the substance of the integuments, and esj)ecially in the groove of the wings of the nose; the sebaceous fluid which they contain may be squeezed out in the form of small worms. The form of the follicles is in gene- ral that of a small oval sac, whose aperture is slightly contracted; they seem lined in their interior by a kind of mucous membrane, and their orifice is furnished with four or five excessively minute hairs, and somethnes has a decided black tint. Their number is considerable, and their volume less than that of the ccruminous glands. 2052. For the Muscles of the Nose, sec p. 264, 265, 267.