PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 134 and of a semicircular form, is articulated to the scaphoid bone. The inner surface is directed a little downwards, and presents a broader, somewhat convex and nearly quadrilateral facet, which rests upon the cuneiform bone. OF THE CUNEIFORM BONE. 463. The Cuneiform or Pyramidal Bone (Os triquetnim), is a little smaller than the semilunar, and is situated to the inside of that bone, and a little beneath it. Its form is that of a wedge, whose base is directed outwards and upwards, and the summit downwards and inwards. Its upper surface is convex and smooth, and is contiguous to the triangular fibro-cartilage, which separates it from the head of the ulna. The inferior surface is inclined outwards, a little concave and smooth, and rests upon the unciform bone. The posterior surface is uneven, and gives attachment to ligaments. The anterior presents internally a plain and circular surface, covered with cartilage, which articulates with the pisiform bone, and is limited externally by ligamentous impressions. The outer surface, which is quadrilateral, convex, smooth, and inclined a little upwards, is articulated to the semilunar bone. The inner is marked with an uneven depression for the insertion of ligaments. OF THE PISIFORM BONE. 464. This is the smallest bone of the carpus, of which it occu- pies the inner and upper part. It is of a rounded form, whence its name ; and is placed in a plane anterior to the other bones of the carpus. Posteriorly it presents a circular surface, which unites ■with the anterior surface of the cuneiform bone. All the rest of its surface is convex, rough, and uneven. It gives attachment above to the flexor carpi ulnaris, below to the abductor of the little finger; anteriorly, to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. SECOND ROW. OF THE TKAfEZIUM. 465. The Trapezium {os rfmltangulum maju^)j is situated at the outer and lower parts of the carpus, a little before the other bones, and seems to have an oblique direction. Its upper surface is concave and cartilaginous, and articulates with the scaphoid bone. The lotoer surface, which is convex from behind forwards, and con- cave transversely, is connected with the first metacarpal bone. The posterior and outer present insertions of ligaments. The anterior, which is narrow and uneven, is marked above with a groove in ■which Hes the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and of which the