36 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. OF THE HEAD. 109. The head (caput) is a spheroid, varying in size, more or less elongated and more or less flattened in diflerent individuals. It contains the brain and the principal organs of sense, and is arti- culated to the superior extremity of the vertebral column. It con- sists of two parts, which are manifestly distinct in their uses, their mode of development, and their mechanism. These parts are the Cranium and the Face. OF THE CRANIUM. 110. The Cranium* is a large egg-shaped cavity, with its nar- row end before, occupying the upper and posterior parts of the head, and of a rather irregular although symmetrical form. It con- tains and protects the brain, and is formed of several flat bones, the edges of which are irregidar. These bones are :—anteriorly, the Frontal; posteriorly, the Occipital; on the sides and above, the. two Parietal Bones; la- terally and below, the two Temporal; below and in the middle, the Sphenoid, anterior to which is the Ethmoid, separated from it by the Sphenoidal Turbinated Bones. Each of the temporal bones, moreover, contains four small bones : the Malleus, the Incus, the Os orhiculare, and the Stapes. Very frequently, also, there are observed between the principal bones of the skull, other bones, which are very irregular in every respect, and which are known by the name of Ossa Wormiana s. triquetra. 111. Four of the bones of the skull, the Frontal, Occipital, Sphenoid, and Ethmoid, are situated in the mesial line ; the others are lateral. The former are symmetrical, that is to say, capable of being divided into two perfectly similar parts, a character com- mon to them with all the organs by the agency of which we become acquainted with external objects. These four bones, it is also to be remarked, are single, while the rest are in pairs. All the bones of the skull do not belong to it so essentially as not to contribute also to the formation of the face ; and for this reason they were divided by the older anatomists into coinmon and proper bones. The latter belonged exclusively to the skull. The Frontal, Occipital, Parietal, and Temporal bones, were regarded as such; but this division is far from being correct, and we shall see, as we proceed, that several of these bones contribute as much to the formation of the face, as the Sphenoid or Ethmoid. 112. The anterior region of the cranium is named the Forehead • Kjav/** of the Greeks ; calvaria of the Latins.