ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 193 There arc also observed synovial membranes in the articulations of the articular processes of the sacrum with those of the vertebra. In other respects, we have no differences to point out, and these parts require no particular description. 620. Sacro-vertebral Ligament This is the only organ pre- iented by the articulation in question, that is not equally observed in the vertebral column. It is a very short and strong fasciculus :)f fibres, which arising from the anterior and inferior part of the sansverse process of the last vertebra, descends obliquely outwards towards the base of the sacrum, where it attaches itself, intermix- ing with irregular fibres placed before the sacro-iliac articulation. :(t rests upon ligamentous fibres and cellular tissue behind; but is covered anteriorly by the psoas muscle. ILIO-LUMBAR ARTICULATION. 621. Ilio-lumhar Ligament. This ligament is the only means vy which the fifth lumbar vertebra and the os innominatum are connected, there being here no immediate union between the bones. 11 is broad and thick internally, thin and narrow externally; its lorm is triangular, and its direction horizontal. Its fibres, which rre divergent, are very commonly separated into several fasciculi, \)y cellular tissue and vessels. The superior, which are the long- ^st, constitute the superior and anteHor ligament of the pelvis, iiligamentum pelvis anticum superius), while the inferior form its nferior and anterior ligament, {ligamentumpelvis anticum infe- dus). From the summit of the transverse process of the fifth, and vometimes, the fourth lumbar vertebrae, the former passes trans- e ersely outwards to the posterior third of the iliac crest, into which t is inserted; the latter proceeds from the transverse process of he last lumbar vertebra to the most remote part of the iliac crest. The anterior surface of these ligaments is covered by the psoas nagnus; the posterior rests upon the mass of the muscles which •ccupy the vertebral grooves. Their upper edge corresponds to the [uadratus lumborum, and the lower to the sacro-iUac ligaments. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS WITH EACH OTHER. SACRO-COCCYGEAL ARTICULATION. ' n^^" '^^^s articulation has a great similarity to that of the bodies )t the vertebrjE with each other. It is an amphiarthrosis formed )y the summit of the sacrum, which corresponds to the base of the :occyx by an oval surface. Two hgamcnts and a fibro-cartilagc ^ecp the surfaces in connexion. o23. Anterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament. It consists of a •mau number of irregular parallel liijrcs, expanded into a thin