MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. ty being directed downwards. The aponeurosis then divides inter- nally into two bands, the upper of which is curved, broader and thinner, and is inserted upon the edge of the angle of the pubes, intercrossing with that of the opposite side, and becoming incor- porated with the fibres of the symphysis pubis, and the suspensory ligament of the penis ; while the other, which is inferior, straight, less broad, but thicker and stronger, descends obliquely forwards and inwards, above the femoral notch, and terminates at the spine of the pubes. These two bands have generally been called the pillars -of the ingtiinal ring, because from their separation results the aperture of that name. It is rather triangular than elliptical, sometimes oval, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, situated above the pubes, broader below than above, where it terminates in a point which is truncated by the lineae transversae. The size of the in- guinal ring varies in different individuals; but it is always more dilated, situated less laterally, and more elevated in man than in woman. In the former, it gives passage to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle ; in the latter, to the round ligament of the ute- rus. The aponeurotic lamina of the obliquus externus abdominis ter- minates, at the lowest part, by a very thick, large and strong fold, fixed on the one hand to the anterior and superior iliac spine, and on the other to the angle, crest, and spine of the pubes. It is to the second of these latter insertions, which takes place by a falci- form aponeurotic expansion, that the name of Gimbernafs Ligcu ment is now commonly given. The fold in question is much more distinct internally than externally, and is longer in the female than, the male; it is commoidy designated by the name of Pouparfs Ligament or Crural Arch. It converts into a hole the great notch which the anterior edge of the os innominatum presents, and thus forms the anterior side of an aperture which appears triangular when it is examined behind, after the peritoneum has been removed, and whose inner side is formed by the horizontal branch of the pubes, and the outer by the tendon of the united iliaeus and psoas muscles. This aperture, which is closed internally by Gimbernafs Liga- ment, is traversed by the tendon just mentioned, the femoral vessels, and the crural nerve ; it is larger in the female. Lastly, the crural arch, is continued, in the inguinal region, inferiorly and anteriorly into the fascia lata, by a superficial fibrous lamina. ; . In its whole extent, this lamina of the abdominal aponeurosis presents quadrilateral apertures of variable diameter, throvigh which "vascular and nervous branches pass from the fleshy layer of the ab- domen to the integuments. 1252. The deep lamina which separates from the edge of the imea alba, passes before the peritoneum and behind the rectus inuscle, but only in the three upper fourths of its extent, and is also divided into two laminae opposite its outer edge. One of these lamina?, the more superficial, which is almost immediately