080 ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Their number is the same as theirs. Immediately after their com- mencement, they throw some transverse twigs into the fibrous tis- sue which covers the posterior surface of the sternum, and direct themselves to the exterior of the thorax, passing through the inter- costal muscles near that bone. They then bend upon themselves, and send twigs in a radiating manner into the pectoralis major, obliquus externus abdominis, rectus abdominis and intercostales interni. They anastomose with the preceding branches, and with the external thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The last of these branches directs itself transversely over the xiphoid cartilage, and anastomoses there by an arch with that of the opposite side, whence it frequently descends between the linca alba and the peri- toneum to the suspensory ligament of the liver, where it com- municates with ramifications of the hepatic artery. 2416. Of the two branches which terminate the internal mam- mary artery, one is external, the other internal. The external (art. mmculn-phrenica) descends outwards behind the cartilages of the last ribs, furnishes some twigs to the diaphragm, passes between its insertions, and terminates in the transverse and oblique muscles of the abdomen ; it anastomoses with the inferior intercostal, lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries. The internal (art. epigastrica su- perior) descends behind the rectus muscle, gives it a great num- ber of twigs, and anastomoses towards the umbihcus with the epi- gastric artery. OF THE SUPERIOR TNTERCOSTAL AliTEIlY. (Art. intercostalis superior). 2417- Its volume and length vary much. Arising from the lower and back part of the subclavian, opposite the deep cervical artery, it descends before the neck of the first rib, externally of the inferior cervical ganglion, and forms some flexuosities. Opposite the lower edge of that rib, it gives off two twigs, the one posterior, the other external, and sometimes terminates there. But most commonly it passes before the neck of the second rib, and on arriv- ing at the second intercostal space, furnishes two other twigs. In some subjects it proceeds still lower. In the whole of this course, the superior intercostal artery is covered by the pleura. 2418. Before the first rib, it frequently sends a pretty large twig to the lower part of the scalenus anticus muscle. The pos- terior hranch which it furnishes in the first intercostal space is very small; and, after throwing some small twigs over the spinal marrow, by the intervertebral foramen, it emerges posteriorly be- tween the transverse processes and goes to lose itself in the muscles of the back. The external hranch, which comes off from it at the same point, is distributed to the two intercostal muscles^ after fur-