533 OF THE MIDDLE CARDIAC NERVES. ■ OF THE MIDDLE CAKDIAC NERVES. (Ne7'vi cardiaci magni). 1895. That of the right side is the largest of the three, which exist on that side. It arises internally and anteriorly from the 'middle cervical ganglion, by five or six filaments, at first united into two or three branches, and afterwards into a single trunk, which descends inwards near the common carotid artery, and passes before the subclavian, anastomosing with one or two filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Beneath this vessel, it is joined by a twig of the recurrent nerve, glides before the inferior cardiac nerve, receives there two considerable filaments of the pneumo-gastric nerve, forms a kind of ganglion or bulging, and continues its course on the outer side of the arteria innominata. Lastly, be- tween the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the trachea, it terminates in the cardiac ganglion. Frequently the middle cardiac nerve divides in its course into two twigs, which again unite, and circumscribe a kind of island. 1896. The middle cardiac nerve of the left side receives its prin- cipal branch from the inferior cervical ganglion. It passes behind the subclavian artery, and directs itself obliquely forwards and downwards, running along its outer side. But towards the com- mencement of the inferior thyroid artery, a great number of twigs, which come from the middle cervical ganglion, and are repeatedly "interlaced together, join this branch and form a second origin to the nerve, which then proceeds behind the arch of the aorta, receives several filaments from the pneumo-gastric nerve, and ter- minates in the cardiac ganglion without dividing, or by spreading out into several small twigs. OF THE INFERIOR CARDIAC NERVE. (Nervus cardiacus aortce superficialis). 1897' right side, the filaments which are destined to compose it form, on leaving the inferior cervical ganglion, a kind of plexus which unites into larger twigs, which descend vertically behind the sub-clavian artery, close to the recurrent nerve. They direct themselves to the left along the arteria innominata, run upon the anterior side of the arch of the aorta, and go between it and the pulmonary artery, to lose themselves in the anterior car- diac plexus. 1898. Most commonly, on the left side, the middle and inferior cardiac nerves arc united into a single trunk (1896).