ORGANS OF SENSATION. 436 points by venous canals, which are named the Sinuses of the Dic- ra Mater. 1571. These canals, which are of variable dimensions, and dis- posed in a symmetrical and regular manner, have walls formed ex- ternally by the dura mater, and lined internally by a smooth and pohshed membrane, of a serous aspect, such as is met with in the interior of all the veins. Being constantly stretched in all points of their extent, they can neither change place, nor even contract upon themselves. Their cavity presents, at intervals, bridles passing irregularly from one wall to the other, which are generally formed by fibrous bundles of the dura mater. It is into the sinuses that all the veins of this membrane, and all those of the brain empty themselves. 1572. Torcular Herophili. This is a smooth and polished ca- vity, of irregular form, placed at the union of the three great folds of the dura mater, on the fore part of the internal occipital protu- berance. It is lined by the internal membrane of the veins, and presents six apertures ; a superior, of a triangular form, belonging to the superior longitudinal sinus ; two inferior, of variable form and breadth, corresponding to the occipital sinuses; an anterior, rounded, belonging to the straight sinus; lastly, two lateral, broader, but generally of different sizes, transversely oval, fur- nished with a thick rim in their contour, and leading into the la- teral sinuses. The two last, and sometimes the two inferior, trans- mit to the outside of the cavity the blood which is poured into them by the others. 1573. Superior Longitudinal Sinus (Sinus Falciformis Supe- rior). This is a long triangular canal, convex above, presenting its acute angle below, occupying the whole upper edge of the falx cerebri (1567), narrow before, broader behind, commencing by a sort of cul-de-sac at the fore part of the crista-galli of the ethmoid bone, and corresponding to the frontal ridge, the sagittal sutureJ' and the vertical groove of the occipital bone. In its interior, it in smooth and polished in its whole extent, and presents a consider-B able number of those bridles {chordce Willisii)^ of which we mad™ mention above, which are invested, Uke it, by the internal mem-B brane of the veins. This sinus communicates above with the fronm tal veins by a certain number of little veins which pass througlH the sagittal suture; it also receives, in the same direction, veinM which come from the diploe of the bones of the upper part of th(" skull; it also communicates, by means of a small branch whicl passes through the parietal hole, with the veins on the outside 0 ^ the head; lastly, it receives some trunks from those of the diir; mater, and all those which are expanded over the convex and plaii surfaces of the two cerebral hemispheres. They almost all opei into its interior obliquely forwards. In general, the mouths of th veins are covered in a great measure by membraneous folds in th form of valvules, whose free and concave edge is turned forwards All these folds are formed by the internal membrane of the vein