457 OF THE OPHTHALMIC NKllVE. * uhitish mammilla, which seemed to be concealed in the interior of re nerve, but which is nothing else than the solution of continuity :'the filaments which compose it, and not, as Bichat thinks, apar- , cular tubercle. s 1643. Be this as it may, these filaments, the number of which , jiries from seventy to eighty or a hundred, are evidently separated • uto two parcels by cellular laminas or blood vessels. The ante- iDt and inner is formed of five or six larger, softer and whiter diaments, placed beneath the others, and not contributing by their ippture, to the formation of the mammilla mentioned above (1642). fhe other bundle, which is situated posteriorly and externally, (ontains the rest of the filaments, and advances outwards as far as lae extremity of the upper edge of the petrous bone, where it en- • rrs a canal furnished by the dura mater (1561), about five lines nng anteriorly and only three behind, in which the arachnoid laembrane soon leaves it, forming a cvil-de-sac. It thus arrives in lae internal temporal fossa, after being much flattened in passing vver the, upper edge of the petrous process, which presents a de- rression for lodging it. Its filaments then cease to be parallel; ihey separate from each other without interlacing or anastomosing I'ith each other, as happens in the course of other nerves, and all fBrminate in a depressed, semilunar gangliform plexus, (Gasserian mnglion), which is of a grayish colour, concave behind for receiving ihem, flat beneath, where it rests upon the base of the skull, and a tittle concave above. This sort of ganglion adheres intimately to the dura mater, without its being certain that it furnishes filaments to t.t. Its tissue seems formed of a net-work of inextricable fibres, in rWhich its original filaments are so intimately confounded together hhat they cannot be followed. 1644. The anterior edge of this gangliform body or plexus is convex. There successively arise from it, from before backwards, three nervous trunks, viz. : 1st, The ophthalmic nerve, less vo- luminous, and lodged in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus; ..2dly, The superior maxillary nerve, larger and issuing by the fora- ]men rotundum of the sphenoid bone ; 3dly, The inferior maxillary nerve, larger still and escaping by the foramen ovale of the same 'bone. 1645. The first bundle, which is formed by the five or six white filaments, and does not enter into the ganglion, passes in an isolat- led manner beneath it, and joins the inferior maxillary nerve. OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. {Primus ramus quinti nervi). l()4(i. This is the smallest of the three branches furnished by the iitth pair ; it is also that which deviates least from the original direction of the trunk which gave rise to it. It proceeds from be-