ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 730 2654. Metatarsal Artery (Arteria metatarsea). Smaller than the preceding, it arises from the dorsal artery of tlie foot, near the place where the latter enters the first interosseous space. Directed forwards and outwards under the extensor brevis digito- rum, it forms a curve of which the concavity is directed backwards, and furnishes ramifications to the extensor brevis digitorum, the periosteum and the articulations of the tarsal bones. Its convexi- ty, which is anterior, gives off three remarkable twigs, which are called Doraal Internsseous Arteries of the foot, (Art. inter- ossece clorsales). They pass forwards in the second, third, and fourtli interosseous spaces r and between the extremities of the metatarsal bones, communicate with the posterior perforating ar- teries of the external plantar. They then give twigs to the inter- ossei dorsales muscles, over which they pass, and to the integu- ments, and communicate with the anterior perforating arteries, close upon the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. At the same level each of them divides into two small branches which follow the corresponding edges of the toes, from the outer edge of the second to the inner edge of the last, and lose themselves in the skin. 2G55. Immediately before diving into the first interosseous space, the dorsal artery of the foot gives off a pretty large branch (Art. dorsalis hallucis) which runs on the outer side of the first metatarsal bone as far as its articulation with the first phalanx of the great toe, wliere it divides into two twigs, one of which runs along the outer edge of the first toe, while the other follows the inner edge of the second. 2656. Arrived in the sole of the foot, the dorsal artery turns outwards, between the accessory muscle of the flexor longus digi- torum and interossei plantares, and separates into branches of equal size. One of them continues the course of the artery ovitwards, and contributes to form the plantar arch by anastomosing with the external plantar artery. The other follows the interval of the two first metatarsal bones between the adductor poUicis aud flexor bre- vis pollicis muscles, to which it gives twigs, one ofVhich, larger than the others, winds to the inner side of the great toe, and ar- rives at its extremity. The branch then passes through the flexor brevis muscle, and divides into two principal twigs, which subdi- vide and run along the corresponding edges of the two first toes. OF THE FIBULAR OR PERONEAL AKTERY. (Art. Peronea.) 2657. Smaller than the posterior tibial, and situated very deeply at the back part of the leg, it directs itself a little obhquely out- wards, from the end of the popliteal artery to near the malleolus externus, along the edge of the internal surface of the fibula. Its posterior side is covered by the soleus and flexor longus pollicis