PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 38 below, to receive the tuberosity of the palate bones, and present* at the lower extremity of the inner branch of this bifurcation, which is narrower but longer than the outer, a small hook, called the Hw- mular Process, over which is reflected the tendon of the external peristaphyline muscle. Lastly, On the outer and back part of the pterygoid processes, the lower orifices of the foramina ovalia and the foramina spioiosa, of which we shall presently speak. 115. The Upper or Cerebral aspect, which is very uneven, is in connexion with the membranes of the brain, and presents the following peculiarities. On its middle part, and from behind forwards, there are observ- ed, \st, A thin quadrilateral lamina, inclined forwards, superficially notched on the sides for the passage of the external oculo-muscular nerves, forming part of the basilar groove, and presenting at its two upper angles, two processes of a somewhat variable form, named the Posterior Clinoid Processes, which afford attachment to a part of the tentorium cerebelli. 2d, The Pituitary Fossa or Sella Turcica, which lodges the pituitary body; this depression is of a square form, deep and perforated with a considerable num- ber of holes whic|i run towards the guttural surface of the bone, but whose use is not well known.* 3dly, Anteriorly to the sella turcica a tubercle called the olivary process, and then a transverse groove on which rests the commissure of the optic nerves, and which ends at the optic holes, after curving a little forwards, ^thly, A somewhat smooth surface over which the olfactory nerves pass in two slight longitudinal depressions, separated from one another by a very superficial projection. 116. Laterally, and from behind forwards, we observe, Ist, The foramen spinosum for the passage of the middle meningeal artery. 2dly, In most cases, two or three small vascular apertures for the emissary veins of Santorini. 3dly, The foramen cvale or in fe- rior maxillary hole, for the passage of the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves. It perforates the bone directly from above down- wards, and is sometimes double. Uhly, The foramen roiundum, or superior viaxillary hole, which is rather a canal, having a di- rection forwards, and giving exit to the second branch of the same nerve. 5tMy, On the outer side of the foramen rotundum, a large concave surface, irregularly quadrilateral, marked with arterial grooves and cerebral impressions. Qthly, On the inner side, a broad groove, which lodges the cavernous sinus and the internal carotid artery, together with several important nerves. Anteriorly, this groove is terminated by a small prominence, to which is at- tached an aponeurosis, common to the inferior, internal and exter- nal recti muscles of the eye. There is often observed in this gi-oove, on the sides of the pituitary fossa, a considerable hole, which descends to the upper part of the pterygoid fossa, and which • Vieiissens, Iiowevcr, snys, he lias been convinced by a great number of obser- vations, that they give passage to small veins which go from the coronary sinus of the dura muter to the pituitary membrane.