530 ORGANS OF SENSATION. divisions. Others cast themselves separately upon the thyroid body, oesophagus and trachea, where they anastomose with ramifications of the recurrent nerve ; some of them even gain the trunk of the recurrent nerve, and increase its volume considerably ; others unite with the common carotid plexus, and one of them joins the phrenic nerve. OF THE ANTERIOR FILAMENTS. 1885. They vary from one to three, and constitute the middle cardiac nerves, of which we shall afterwards speak. OF THE INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. (Ganglion cervicale inferius.) 1886. It is sometimes double, and pretty frequently continu- ous with the middle cervical ganglion or with the first thoracic. Its figure is extremely variable and irregular, although fre- quently semilunar or rounded. It is situated behind the verte- bral artery, between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. Sometimes it occurs be- tween the concave edge of that rib and the body of the first dorsal vertebra; but it generally extends as far as the first intercostal space. Its filaments are superior, inferior, internal, external and anterior. OF THE SUPERIOR FILAMENTS. 1887- Some of them communicate with the middle cervical gan- glion. Of these we have already spoken (1882). Another bundle of filaments throws itself outwards behind the vertebral artery, ascends in its canal forming around it a very dis- tinct plexus, as far as the third or second vertebra. There, the filaments become less numerous and less apparent. One or two of them however, are still seen to anastomose with a descending fila- ment of the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve (1727) ; fiome others enter into the skull and lose themselves on the basilar artery. In its course, this Vertebral Ple.vus sends a great number of small twigs to the inter-transversales muscles, near the body of the vertebrae, and anastomoses by a particular filament with each of the cervical nerves, when they leave the intervertebral holes. Another ascending filament forms a kind of arch of which the convexity is below, and ascends outwards between the rectus capi-