ORGANS OF SENSATION. 490 directed outwards, is soon reflected over the posterior edge of the { sterno-mastoideus, and, after forming a kind of arch, jiroceeds ob- | liquely upwards and forwards between the outer surface of that muscle and the integuments. When it has arrived upon its ante- rior edge opposite the angle of the jaw, it divides into several twigs j whose number varies in different subjects. The anterior, ascend- ing upon the outer surface of the parotid gland, give it numerous filaments, among which there is one that goes to anastomose deep- ly with the inferior branch of the facial nerve (1688), and gain the lower part of the external ear; there they expand and ramify upon its two surfaces, being especially distributed to the integu- ments. Some of their filaments, which are more distinct than the rest, follow the contour of the helix, after traversing the substance of the ear from within outwards and from beneath upwards, be- tween the lobule and the end of the fibro-cartilage. They anasto- mose with the superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (I67O). The posterior twigs, of which there are one or two, run along the posterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and divide upon the mastoid process into filaments which gain the inner surface of the ear, the upper part of the external auditory canal, and the integuments of the lateral part of the head, where they anastomose with the ramifications of the preceding branch. 1745. Superficial Cervical Branches. There are generally two, of which one is larger ; but it is not uncommon to find only one, which sometimes comes from a common trunk with the auri- cular. Arising from the middle part of the plexus, and especially from the third cervical nerve, they are reflected, like the preced- ing and beneath it, over the posterior edge of the sterno-mas- toideus muscle, from whence they proceed transversely between it and the platysma myoides. They immediately divide into a greater or less number of twigs and filaments, some of which ascend to unite deeply with the descending branch of the facial nerve (1688) and with some filaments of the auricular branch of the same plexus (1744), while the others diverge in all directions, and are distributed to the platysma myoides and digastricus muscles, the integuments of the neck and the maxillary gland, where they com- municate with the filaments of the mylo-hyoid twig of the inferior maxillary nerve (1669), and with those of the facial nerve. Some of them proceed transversely to anastomose in the median hne with the ramifications of the opposite side ; some others ascend superfi- cially towards the lower part of the face to be united to the mental nerve (1669). OF THE FIFTH, SIXTH, SEVENTH, AND EIGHTH PAIRS OF CERVICAL NERVES. 1746. Posterior Branches. They arc much smaller than the corresponding branches of the preceding pairs. They descend ob-