ORGANIZATION Ol" THE TONGUE. 589 i^ery perceptible orifices, cither superficially, or at the bottom of a iinall depression. They receive many filaments of the glosso- Ipharyngeal nerves, and are situated above the entrance of the lat- ler into the tongue. 2. Fungiform Papillee. Their number is indeterminate, but iLlways greater than that of the preceding. They are irregularly lilisserainated near the edges and point of the tongue, and present I i rounded and flattened head, supported upon a short and narrow loedicle. Their colour is whitish. Their true nature is not ;inown. 3. Conical Papillce. These are the most numerous of all.— IThey occupy the space comprised between the lenticular papillae, ,;ind the edges and point of the tongue. Their arrangement is iiore regular behind than before. They resemble small cones, attached to the tongue by their base, and free at the summit. The 'i)osterior are larger and vertical. The anterior, which are smaller, are a little inclined, and have a more mobile summit. Those vhich are placed upon the fore part of the edges of the organ are lliform. They appear produced by the expansion of the filaments of the lingual nerve (1668), and are enveloped by a very apparent -yascular kce-work. They lie close upon each other, but frequent- )\y leave, from space to space, intervals in the form of irregular iclefts, which are more frequent anteriorly than posteriorly. 2081. The nerves of the tongue are furnished by the inferior nnaxillary (1666), glosso-pharyngeal (1698), and hypo-glossal (1723), nerves. The filaments of the two latter belong especially do its muscles or mucous folhcles. The first is distributed to the mucous membrane, and to the conical papiUos in particular. 2082. The arteries of the tongue are furnished by the lingual 3Dranches of the external carotid arteries, and by the palatine and tconsillar twigs of the labial. Its veins are the superficial lingual, vanine, lingual, and submental. They open into those of the pha- Tynx and larynx. Its lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia situated JDU the edge of the hyoglossi muscles. 2083. Under the mucous membrane, there scarcely occurs any :cellular tissue, unless it be beyond the foramen coecum, between lithe fleshy fibres and the glosso-epiglotic folds (1487), where a [Ithick, membraniform layer of it is seen, which never contains fat, jand is fixed upon the concavity of the hyoidbone. It is about an (juv;h in length, and receives anteriorly some fibres of the genio- i,glossi muscles and of the base of the tongue. I -Between the fleshy fibres of the tongue, there is besides found a ^ very fine fat, more abundant posteriorly than before, and which ^does not appear to be enveloped by any tissue. ! 2084). Behind each of the fringes formed under the tongue by l^the mucuous membrane, there is perceived a glandular, amygda- I 'loidal granular mass, of a reddish-gray colour, traversed by a great quantity of blood-vessels, and by filaments of the lingual nerve of Mhe inferior maxillarv.