751 OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR. Above the corpus pampiniformc, the spermatic veins unite again into a single one, ascend obliquely inwards between the peritoneum and psoas muscle, and open, the right into the vena cava, under the renal vein, the left into the corresponding renal vein. 2743. In the female, the spermatic veins derive their origin from a plexus expanded in and upon the ovarium, and of which several roots come from the sides of the uterus, where they anastomose with the uterine veins. They are afterwards joined by some branches which arise from the ligamentum teres and Fallopian tube. These different branches collect between the two laminae of the broad ligament of the uterus, pass over the external iliac ar- tery, crossing its direction, bend outwards, gain the brim of the pelvis^ and after this exhibit the same appearances as in the male. 2744. Renal or Emulgent Veins, (Venos renales seu emul- gentes). They are of great size. Their roots correspond exactly to the last ramifications of the renal arteries, in the substance of the kidneys. They unite in the fissure of the organ into several con- verging branches, which collect into a single trunk before the artery. The trunk directs itself transversely inwards, and opens upon the sides of the vena cava. The left renal vein is com- monly larger and longer than the right, which presents a slight obliquity. In their course, the renal veins receive some capsular and adi- pose twigs. The left is moreover augmented by the corresponding spermatic vein. 2745. Capsular Veins. There is one on each side. They fre- quently open into the renal veins, and in other respects have pre- cisely the same disposition as the arteries to which they corres- pond. 2746. Hepatic Veins (vence hepaticcB). They have their roots in the substance of the liver, where they are enveloped by a pro- longation of the fibrous capsule of that organ. Some of them of small size and irregular, enter the vena cava separately. Others, the venm cavce hepaticcB, to the number of two or three, are dis- tinguished into left and right. The Left comes from the left lobe of the liver, and issues near its free edge, not far from its left lateral ligament. It enters mto the vena cava before and opposite the aperture of the diaphrao-m, through which it passes. . The Right issues from the right lobe of the liver about the middle of its inferior surface, directs itself transversely to the left, and opens into the vena cava much below the preceding. 2747. Inferior Phrenic Veins. They are two in number and precisely similar to the arteries of the same name (2506). '