PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 59r some subjects, there occurs between the posterior extremities of the condyloid points, in tlie inferior notch of the occipital portion, a particular nucleus which completes the vertebral ring behind. OF THE TEMPORAL BONE.* 171- Form. The Temporal Bones (ossa temporicm) contain in their interior the organs of hearing, and occupy the lateral and in-' ferior parts of the cranium. Each of them is commonly divided into three portions, viz. the squamuus portiooi externally, the ?nas- toid portion posteriorly, and the petrous portion inferiorly and internally. These portions are separate in the young subject, but they form a single piece only in the adult. We distinguish in the temporal bone the following parts. 172. An auricular or ewternal aspect. It is slightly convex, smooth, and entirely situated at the outside of the cranium. At its anterior and upper part, it presents a pretty broad surface, marked by several grooves in which branches of the deep temporal arteries are lodged; it gives attachment, nearly over its whole extent, to the temporal muscle, and forms part of the temporal fossa. Be- low, there is observed a strong process, which is broad at its com- mencement, but gradually becomes narrower; it is at first direct- ed horizontally outwards and forwards, but afterwards retains the latter direction only, and becomes twisted upon itself as it removes from the rest of the bone, so that its surfaces, from being horizontal, become vertical. This is the Zygomatic Process, the upper edge of which is thin and straight, and gives attachment to the tempo- ral aponeurosis ; while the lower edge, which is thick, concave, and much shorter than the other, serves, together with the inner sur- face, for the insertion of the masseter muscle; its outer surface is convex, and lies immediately under the skin; its extremity is cut obliquely downwards and backwards, and is denticulated for its ar- ticulation with the malar bone. Its base, which is turned back- wards, and hollowed above by a superficial groove, in which a great part of the fibres of the temporal muscle slide, gives rise to two prolongations named the Roots of the Zygomatic Process. One of these roots (tuber articulare) which is inferior, transverse, con- cave fi'om within ovitAvai'ds, and convex from before backwards, is covered with cartilage, and serves for the articulation of the lower jaw; where this root joins with the base of the process, there is a rough surface, to which the external lateral ligament of this articulation is attached ; the other, which is superior and longitu- dinal, is directed backwards, and divides into two. Its upper sub- division, by describing a curve, gains the circumference of the bone ; the lower descends a little inwards, and terminates at the " Tlie Temporal Bones have been so named, on account of their occupying the region of the head on which the hair generally first begins to turn grey, thus indi- dic-aling the various periods of age {Umjiora-)