ORGANS OF SENSATION, 548 each other, and those nearest the free edge of each eyelid open externally by orifices which are scarcely perceptible, and arc disposed in one or two rows on the side next the eye, behind the ciliae (1939). There issues from them a sebaceous humour, wliich, on pressing the tarsal cartilages, may be squeezed out under the form of extremely minute cylinders. 1947. The arteries of the eyelids are furnished by the oph- thalmic, infra-orbitar, temporal and facial arteries. Their veins follow the same course, and pass into the corresponding trunks. Their lymphatics, which are very numerous, terminate, as well as those of the eyebrow, in the ganglia situated on the parotid gland and near the angle of the jaw. We have already described their nervousJilaments which come chiefly from the lachrymal (1648), facial (1683), infra-orbitar (1659), frontal (1651) and nasal (1654) nervesj OF THE TUNICA CONJUNCTIVA. 1948. The Tunica Conjunctiva (Membrana adnata), belongs to the order of mucous membranes. It is very thin and transpar- ent, and lines the posterior surface of the eyehds, and the fore part of the ball of the eye, being always limited at the circumference of the cornea, as has been demonstrated by Dr. Ribes.* On the ftee edge of the upper eyelid, it is obviously continuous with the skin, at the place where the cilias arise. It then covers the edge of the fibro-cartilage, and is perforated externally by the orifices of the ciliary follicles. Internally, it introduces itself by the superior punctum lachrymale into the lachrymal duct; it then proceeds behind the fibro-cartilage and the aponeurosis of the levator pal- pebrae muscle, from whence it is reflected over the sclerotica, to gain the posterior surface of the lower eyelid, and terminate upon its free edge, where it is continuous with the skin, and dives into the inferior lachrymal punctum. On leaving the eyelids to be reflect- ed over the eye, it forms a semicircular fold, which corresponds to the fat of the orbit. 1949. On the internal part of the ball of the eye, the tunica conjunctiva forms another rather indistinct fold, which is some- times named the Membrana nictitans, because in man it seems to be the rudiment of an organ of the same name, which is highly developed in certain animals. This fold is semilunar or crescent- shaped. Its concave edge is directed outwards. It is rendered much more apparent by turning the eye towards the nose. 1950. The inner surface of the tunica conjunctiva is attach- ed to the eyelids and ball of the eye by cellular tissue, which is very dense behind the tarsal cartilages, but rather loose everywhere else. The outer surface is smooth, not villous, and constantly ! •Bu'ktin dc la FaciilK de Medecinc. 1814. 4.