MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 299 flat, and of an irregularly quadrilateral form. It is terminated an- teriorly by a curved and dentated edge, formed of fleshy digitations attached to the outer surface of the iirst eight or nine ribs, by as many small tendinous or merely aponeurotic cords. These digitations are not ahke; the first, which is very short, broad, thick, and distinctly separated from the others, is attached to the lower part of the outer surface of the first rib, to the upper part of that of the second, and to an aponeurosis placed between them ; it is sometimes confounded with the scalenus posticus; the second is broad and thin, and arises from an oblique line upon the second rib; the third and fourth are a little narrower, and are attached to the corresponding ribs, upon similar ridges running obliquely from above downwards, and from behind forwards. The last digi- tations, which are narrow and so much the longer the lower their situation is, originate together from the outer surface and upper edge of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs, and intermingle with the digitations of the obliquus externus abdominis. 1088. Each of these digitations furnishes to the body of the muscle a more or less distinct bundle. The union of these bun- -dles, which are distinctly separated below by intervals filled with adipose tissue, seems to give rise to a division of the muscle into three portions. The first of these portions, which is superior, thick, narrow, and short, comes from the first two ribs, and ascends to the posterior angle of the scapula, where it terminates by unit- ing with the levator anguli scapulae. The middle portion, which is broad and thin, proceeds, in a horizontal direction, from the second, third, and fourth ribs, to the vertebral edge of the scapula, where it is inserted by short aponeuroses, between the rhomboideus and subscapularis. The third or inferior portion, which is thick, broad, radiated anteriorly, and contracted posteriorly, ascends obliquely from the last digitations towards the lower fourth of the same edge, and the inferior angle of the scapula, on the anterior surface of which it particularly terminates. 1089- By its external surf ace, the serratus magnus is in relation at its lower and fore part with the skin ; posteriorly and below, with the latissimus dorsi, but higher up with the subscapularis ; above and before, it is covered by the two pectoral muscles, the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. By its inner surface, it is applied upon the first seven or eight ribs, the corresponding external in- tercostals, and a portion of the serratus posticus superior. 1090. The motions which the serratus magnus may induce are of ^0 kinds: the one belonging to the scapula, the other to the thorax. When the three portions act simultaneously, it moves the scapula lorwards ; its first portion contributes to the depression of the tip the shoulder; while its lower portion, on the contrary, raises it, oy drawmg the inferior angle of the bone forwards, and enters espe- cially into action when heavy burdens are raised. If the scapula nas been originally fixed by the trapezius, rhomboideus, and leva-