519 OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF GANGLIA. ference proceed filaments which anastomose with the neighbouring uerves, or lose themselves in the tissue of the organs. They are only met with in the trunk ; they all communicate with each other, and are possessed of a pecuhar structure. They are small reddish or grayish bodies, always deeply situated in the midst of cellular tissue, destitute of any particular envelope, and varying consider- ably in form and magnitude. Their tissue, which is soft and spongy, is homogeneous, and presents no traces of fibres or fila- ments at first sight; from careful dissection, however, it is thought to be composed of a multitude of nervous filaments. This is at least Scarpa's opinion, and as such deserves attention. It hardens by boiling, at least when not long continued. When this is the case, it, on the contrary, gradually softens and becomes pulpy. It is partly dissolved by alkalies, and long resists putre- faction. The ganglia contain very little cellular tissue in their interior; they receive a great quantity of blood-vessels which penetrate on all sides, ramifying and anastomosing frequently in their inte- rior. 1860. The nervous filaments which emanate from the ganglia adhere to them in an intimate manner, without appearing to be a continuation of their substance, and are surrounded by the same cellular envelope. They communicate with the encepha- lic nerves a great many times, connect the ganglia themselves with each other, seldom penetrate the muscles, form very numer- ous plexuses with each other, principally around the arteries, which they seem especially destined to follow, being but very seldom ob- served around the veins. Some of these nervous filaments are white, composed of fibrils Uke the encephalic nerves, and like them also surrounded with a, neurilema. Others are reddish or gray, not fibrous, and apparent- ly destitute of neurilema. OF THE GANGLIA IN PARTICULAR, AND OF EACH OF THE NERVES WHICH ARISE FROM THEM. GANGLIA OF THK HEAD. OF THE OPHTHALMIC OR LENTICULAR GANGLION. {Ganglion Ophthalmicum.) 1861. This is one of the smallest ganglia of the body. It is placed on the outer side of the optic nerve, not far from its en- trance into the orbit, and always met with. Its form, although subject to vary, is yet frequently that of a square, elongated from behind forwards. Its outer surface^ which is convex, corres-