MUSCLES OF THE FACE, ǥ - 265 it represent a sort of rim with radiating wrinkles. It acts in sue-' ' tion, in playing upon musical instruments, &c. It also acts as an antagonist to all the other muscles of the lips. 907. As this is the muscle with which most of those of the face are connected, it should be dissected first. For this purpose, the mouth and cheeks are to be stuffed with baked hair, and the lips sewed together. The muscle being thus stretched, a circular incision is to be made round the mouth, at some distance from the edge of the lips, and the skin raised by dissecting round the mouth, in the direction of the fibres. By dissecting away the skin in the direction of the different muscles which proceed to the lips, they will be easily exposed. OF THE THIANGULARIS NASI. . > (Compressor sive dilator nasi.) 908. This muscle is thin, flat and triangular, and is situated upon the sides of the nose. It arises internally of the fossa canina by a very short and narrow aponeurosis, from which proceed in a diver- gent manner, the fleshy fibres, which issuing from beneath the leva- tor labii superioris alaeque nasi, cover the back of the nose, describ- ing a curve whose convexity is directed upwards. The superior fibres which are longer, ascend, and the inferior, which are shorter, are horizontal; they gradually degenerate into a rather loose aponeu- rotic expansion, which covers the nose, adheres to it, and is con- tinuous with the pyramidalis nasi and the muscle of the opposite side. One of its portions is attached to the fibro-cartilage of the wing of the nose. 909. Its anterior surface is covered by the skin, and a little by the levator communis muscle; the posterior is applied upon the superior maxillary bone, and upon the lateral cartilage of the nose. 910. Anatomists have attributed entirely opposite uses to this muscle. Its true action is to draw the wings of the nose outwards, and thus to dilate the nostrils. This muscle is exposed by detach- ing the inner part of the following. OF THE LEVATOR LABII SUPEUIOllIS NASI. 911. This muscle is a thin triangular fleshy bundle, contracted at its upper part, and broader below. It is situated on the sides of the nosG. It arises above from the outer surface of the ascend- ing process of the superior maxillary bone, beneath the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as from the anterior edge of the lachrymal groove and lower part of the base of" the orbit, by short aponeuroses, succeeded by the fleshy fibres, which des>