396 ORGANS OF THE VOICE. before, where it is almost always perceptible beneath the integu- ments. Its anterior surface presents, in its middle, the longitudi- nal prominence just mentioned, which is more marked above than below; on its sides are two slightly concave surfaces, inclined out- wards, obliquely traversed behind by a ridge, which descends for- wards, from the posterior edge to near the lateral third of the low- er edge. This line gives attachment to the sterno-thyroideus and thyro-hyoideus muscles, which cover the greater part of the carti- lage ; behind it, is a small surface in contact with the constrictor pharyngis inferior, which is inserted into it (1029), and sometimes a hole which gives passage to blood-vessels. The posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage presents in the middle a retiring angle, into which the ligaments of the glottis and the thyro-arytenoid muscles are inserted. On its sides, two plain surfaces, directed backwards and inwards, give attachment, below, to the crico-thyroid muscles, and correspond in part to the crico- arytenoidei laterales. Its upper edge, which is longer than the others, and deeply notched in the middle, especially in the male, gives attachment in its whole extent, to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The lower edge is divided into three notches, the middle of which is larger, the two lateral a little contracted; the first is separated from the others by two more or less prominent tubercles, in which the two oblique la- teral ridges terminate. This edge gives attachment, in its middle part, to the crico-thyroid membrane, and on its sides to the muscles of the same name. The two jjosterior edges, which are rectilinear, rounded, and pretty thick, give attachment to some fibres of the stylo-pharyngei and palato-pharyngei muscles. They terminate above, each by a prolongation which is called the Great Horn of the thyroid carti- lage ; this appendage is more or less elongated, inclined backwards and inwards, narrower at the middle than its extremities, and terminated by a small head which is connected, with the extremity of the great horn of the hyoid bone, by a round ligament. Be- low they also present, each a smaller eminence, pretty thick, rounded, and curved inwards. This is the Small Horn of the thyroid cartilage ; its summit, which is blunt, presents at its inner side a small smooth surface, somewhat concave, which is articulated with a similar surface of the cricoid cartilage. OF THE CUICOID* CAIITILAGE. 1473. This is thicker than the other cartilages of the larynx, and represents a kind of ring, occupying the lower part of that or- gan, which is much higher behind than before. Its external surface, which is very narrow anteriorly, gives attachment there to the crico- • K{««5o;, annulus, a ring.