ORGANS OF CIIICULATION. of the other side, and unites with it by a very short, but pretty large transverse branch, which is named the anterior commmii- cating artery. Sometimes this branch is substituted by three or four parallel twigs; but in all cases, it sends one or more small twigs to be distributed to the fornix, the anterior commissure and the septum of the ventricles. 2384. After thus communicating with each other, the two an- terior cerebral arteries change their direction, proceed forwards and dive, parallel to each other, between the two anterior lobes of the brain, turning over the corresponding extremity of the corpus cal- losum. They then proceed from before backwards over its upper surface, at the posterior part of which they terminate by subdi- viding, so as to embrace that body entirely in an arch which ex- actly represents its form. It is to this arch that the name of ar- tery of the corpus callosum is commonly given. In this second part of its course, tlie anterior cerebral artery sends from its concave side a great number of small twigs to the corpus callosum, while, by that which is convex, it furnishes some- what larger twigs to the plain surface of the cerebral hemispheres. These twigs are lodged and subdivide in the anfractuosities which this surface presents, and are prolonged as far as the convex part of the same hemispheres, where they communicate with those of the middle and posterior cerebral arteries. OF THE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. 2385. The Middle Cerebral Artery is much larger than the anterior, it seems to be truly the terminating branch of the inter- nal carotid. Directed outwards and backwards, it gives at first a great number of twigs to the lower part of the brain, to the pia mater which covers its crura, and to the choroid plexus; it then enters into the fissura Sylvii, and divides into two large branches, the one to the anterior lobe, the other to the middle lobe of the brain. These branches bend backwards, following deeply the fis- sure, and end towards the posterior part of the brain, where they subdivide into a great number of twigs. In their course, they al- so furnish some, and all enter together into the cerebral anfractu- osities forming many windings, and ramifying in the pia mater, to such a degree as to convert that membrane into an extremely fine and close vascular net-work, from which issue the arteries which are distributed to the substance of the brain. It is only in some particular places, which we have already made known, that this organ receives trunks of any size, as in the optic thalami, near the medullary roots of the olfactory nerves, &c. * • It is necessary to study the arteries wliieh are I'uriiished to the brain by tiie vertebral arteries of the sub-elaviaii, at the Same time that those which the iiiternHl carotids transmit to it are examined.