447 OF THE ENCEPHALIC NERVES. or example, are smaller, than those of the radial or ulnar i» fierves. Sometimes also a nerve is only formed of a single cord, ; \ivided by a great number of grooves : such is the pneumogastric i rerve. The same nerve sometimes unites large and small cords ; 11 other times they are equal, as in the sciatic nerve, &c. ! 1602. Every encephalic nerve is enveloped by an external mem- rxane, which forms for each of its filaments a true canal in which II contained a white medullary matter. This membrane is the \Wenrilema.* That which surrounds the vertebral nerves is laanifestly continuous with the proper membrane of the spinal laarrow (1595 ;) and, in like manner, that which envelopes the lerves at the level of the cerebral protuberance appears to be identified with the pia mater, which invests that portion of the rrain. The olfactory nerve has no neurilema, and the optic nerve rresents it only after its commissure. The neurilema adheres strongly to the cellular tissue. It is transparent, and seems fibrous. It is dissolved by the action of ■cids ; by long-continuing boiling it acquires a peculiar yellowish lint; alkalies have no effect upon it; maceration does not dis- ix)lve it, and it resists putrefaction for a very long time. Its ten- ccity is considerable, but its intimate nature is yet very little cnown. 1603. In each tube formed by the neurilema is a medullary uubstance which exactly fills it. It seems of the same nature as hhe white substance of the brain and spinal marrow ;-|- it is from it bhat the nerve derives its peculiar tint; by desiccation it becomes aensibly yeUow; it resists putrefaction more than the cerebral idssue ; like it it does not curl like horn either under the influence of caloric, or under that of acids ; like it, also, it remains suspended nn water under the form of an emulsion ; by ebullition, it acquires i dull and gray hue. Sulphuric acid at first hardens it, and then reduces it to a pulp ; nitric acid only renders it yellow and hardens it; alcohol also hardens it, while the alkalies dissolve it. j We have to remark, however, that many anatomists, even of the '''ipresent day, do not admit this intimate structure of the nerves, and refuse to the neurilema the canalicvdate form which we have attributed to it above; but when these organs are submitted to the action of different reagents, as they have been by Reil and Bichat, the circumstances mentioned above are met with. 1604. The nerves are invested and connected with the neighr bouring parts, by an abundant layer of adipose cellular tissue, vhich sends off, internally, prolongations which separate and isolate the nervous cords and filaments from each other. The principal of these prolongations generally contain fat; but those which are interposed between the nervous filaments themselves do not contain * NiJjov, nervta ; Aj^^b, tunica. alol f ""."^ authors, and wnong the rest I\Ionro, are of ophiion that a gray subitance also exists in the nerves.