PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 222 upper surface of the semilunar cartilages, from whence it passes over the concave edge to the lower surface, from which it is conti- nued upon the articular surfaces of the tibia : posteriorly, it sur- rounds the crucial ligaments and the fat behind them, forming a sort of sheath for them, and thus preventing their being contained within the joint. Lastly, it arrives at the condyles of the femur by several points at once, that is to say, by the adipose canal and the sheath of the crucial ligaments. It covers the whole inferior surface of these condyles, and adheres less to them the nearer it is to their tuberosities, where it invests a bony surface destitute of cartilage. Altogether posteriorly, it is reflected on the fore part of the tendons of the gastrocnemius, and surrounds that of the pop- liteus. 724. It is at the place, where the synovial membrane meets the edge of the cartilages covering the articular surfaces of the fe- mur and tibia, that the small globular masses of reddish cellular tissue occur, which are generally found in the neighbourhood of the joints. There are some also in the cavities situated before and behind the spine of the tibia, as well as on the external circumfe- rence of the semilunar fibro-cartilages; but the largest mass*, is that which is observed beneath the patella and its ligament. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TIBIA WITK THE FIBULA. 725. Like the two bones of the fore-arm, those of the leg are connected directly by their two extremities, and by their middle part tlu'ough the intervention of a fibrous membrane. There is this difference, however, between these two parts, that the articu- lations of the one permit very free motions, while the disposition of those of the other renders motion impossible, or at least very ob- scure. UPPER ARTICULATION OF THE TIBIA WITH THE FIBULA. 726. This articulation is an arthrodia, resulting from the con- tact of two circular flat surfaces, belonging, the one to the tibia, the other to the fibula, and covered with a layer of cartilage. They are lined by a synovial capsule, and are kept in place by two liga- ments. 727. Anterior Ligament. It descends obhquely outwards, from the fore part of the external tuberosity of the tibia, to the fore part of the head of the fibula ; it is flat and rather broad. Its fibres are separated by cellular tissue into several distinct fascicuU, which • Heyligei s (Diss. Physiol. Annt. de Fab. Int. Art. Ifi03. p. 57) says that in this mass lie traced an excretory duct, ramified by its roots like that of the pancreas, and opening by several apertures upon the sides of the fibro-cartilages and the pa- tella.