OF THE SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. lG5 s^alus, .md continues so to the articulation of the phalanges with The metatarsus. It again contracts in the region of the toes. On the inner side, from the calcaneum to the phalanges, the foot presents a concavity in which are lodged muscles, nerves and vessels, and which prevents it from touching the ground in its whole extent. The Back of the Foot {dorsum pedis), or its upper surface, \s convex and inclined outwards and forwards. Its outer edge is thin- ner than the other. Its posterior extremity is named the Heel, the anterior the Point of the foot, and its under surface the Sole {plan- ta pedis). 547. The Tarsus {tarsus), forms a land of vault, the concavity of which is manifestly augmented by the groove of the inner sur- face of the calcaneum. The bones of which this part consists are disposed in two rows, although their arrangement is less regular than in the carpus. The astragalus and calcaneum form the pos- terior row ; to the anterior belong the os naviculare, os cuboidcs, and the three cuneiform bones. The head of the astragalus is directed forwards ; the anterior extremity of the calcaneum is turned a little outwards ; the os cu- boides, os naviculare, and the three cuneiform bones, which rest upon it, are situated transversely. 548. The Metatarsus {metatarsus), is composed of five bones, which are not closely connected in their whole extent, but separate as they advance toward the toes. That of the great toe is situated in a plane anterior to the others, whUe that of the fifth is far be- hind. These bones are strongly articulated to each other by their tarsal extremity; but anteriorly they are widely separated, a pretty large interval existing, in particular, between the first and second. The portion of the vault or arch of the foot formed by the metatar- sus differs from that formed by the tarsus, in being less thick, and in the circumstances, that the pieces of which it is composed are longer and more slender, and leave between them distmct inter- vals. 549. The toes {digiti pedis). In the most perfect natural state, and especially in women, the second toe is the longest and exceeds the level of the others ; the first is the next in these respects, and the rest progressively diminish. The first is undoubtedly the largest. But the use of shoes greatly alters the form of the feet in civilized countries. In consequence of the constraint which they impose npon them, the toes change their direction, their phalanges become irregular, and they are even frequently united together. COMPARISON OF THE SUPEKTOIl AND INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. 550. The superior extremity is situated in a plane posterior to that occupied by the inferior extremity of the same side. This is satisfactorily shown by letting a line fall from the glenoid cavity to the acetabulum.