525 OF THE CEIIVICAL GAxNGLIA. OF THE CERVICAL GANGLIA * . OF THE SUPEKIOlt CEIIVICAL GANGLION. ; (G. cervicale primumJ. : 1874- This ganglion, v/liich is remarkable for its size and the raregularity of its occurrence, is situated tinder the base of the skull, lideeply concealed in a depression which is observed above and be- lihind the angle of the lower jaw. It commonly corresponds in ex- iitent to the transverse processes of the first three vertebrae ; but it ids frequently prolonged to the fourth, and even much lower. It is oovoidal or fusiform, broader at the middle than at the extremities; i its thickness is always in the inverse ratio of its length. It pretty ffrequently experiences a contraction in its middle part, so as to lappear double; sometimes it is cylindrical. Its colour is of a gray- i ish red, its consistence soft. Its posterior side lies upon the rec- ctus capitis anticus major. The anterior is covered by the internal c carotid artery. The internal is intimately united to the pneumo- i gastric and .hypoglossal nerves. It receives a pretty considerable ) number of small blood vessels, and sends off a great many fila- ! raents, which are distinguished into superior, inferior, external, and anterior. OF THE SUPERIOR OR ASCENDING FILAMENTS. I875. They are commonly two in number. Their great size, softness and reddish colour, make them look precisely like true prolongations of the ganglion. They embrace the internal carotid artery, and enter along with it into the carotid canal, where they separate from each other, dividing into many small twigs, come to- gether, unite a gi-eat many times, and, in a word, form a true plexus around the walls of the vessel. From this plexus there is- sue several secondary filaments. One of these f Pterygoid Filament J glides under the artery, anastomoses with the inferior filament of the vidian nerve (1872), and in uniting with it, gives off two or three small twigs which are distributed to the upper part of the pharynx. Two or three others, which arc soft, transparent, of a gray co- lour, and pretty strong, ascend into the cavernous sinus, form a sort of isolated plexus by sending oH' some filaments, and unite with the nerve of the sixth pair (167^2)- When the cavernous ganglion ' Tliero is nommoiily dosignatcd by the name of Grcal Sympathetic or intercostal J^'crve, tlie aggregate of all the ganglia that are mel with froin the U|)i)cr \mn of tlic iiCfk to the lower part of the sacrum, togclhc-r with the fiiamerits which issue frotu tlicm. lJut according to tile idea which ought to be foi ined of the sy.stcin of ganglia, )t IS impossible to see here only a single nerve.