LYMPHATIC CANCLIA OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. 7GI the vertebral coliimn. These ganglia immediately receive the lac- teals. 27«(). MesocoUc Ganglia. Much less numerous than the pre- ceding, and placed between the laminiK of the mesocolon, they are distributed along the colon, and are more numerous in its trans- verse than in its lumbar or iliac portions. They are situated near its concave edge ; some of them, which are smaller than the rest, are even disseminated over its two surfaces. 278]. Gasfnt-epiploic Ganglia. They occupy the two curva- tures of the stomach, and surround the gastro-cpiploic arteries and the coronary artery of the stomach. They are not numerous, there being only five or six for each curvature. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE THORAX. 2782. Ganglia of the Medinstinum. There are observed three or four upon the diaphragm, and about the same number are dis- tributed upon the pericardium in the inferior part of the anterior mediastinum ; but twelve or fifteen at least surround the thymus gland and the large vessels of the base of the heart. 2783. Ganglia of the Walls of the Thorax. They are irregu- larly scattered between the two layers of the intercostal muscles- Twelve are also met with on each side of the vertebral column ou the articulations of the ribs. Some are placed around the oeso- phagus and aorta in the posterior mediastinvun. Lastly, there are eight or ten on each side which mark the course of the internal mammary arteries. 2784. Bronchial Ganglia. These have already been describ- ed (2230.) OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA OF THE SUPEIIIOU EXTREMITIES. 2785. Ganglia of the Arm. Tliey are distributed in the course of the brachial artery from the bend of the arm to the axilla. They are scarcely ever met with in the fore-arm. Not unfre- quently there is one at the bend of the arm, near the inner con- dyle. 2786. A.villnry Ganglia. They arc of large size, and vary in number. They are placed in the axilla, between the pectoralis ma- jor, serratus magnus, latissimus dorsi and subscapularis, around the axillary vessels and their branches, and in the midst of the cellular tissue. Some arc met with under the clavicles, and between the pectoralis major and the ribs.