OT THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM'. 129 nr'that the humerus inclines outwards, when it is placed by its lower extremity on a horizontal plane. At the fore part of this extremity, and above the articular surface, is a superficial cavity, (fossa an- ^'^'ferior major), which lodges the coronoid process of the ulna when the fore arm is bent; and at the back part, is observed a deeper fossa, (J'ossa mawima s. posterior), which receives the olecranon when the fore-arm is extended. Lastly, above the small head, is a depression, (fossa anterior minor), into which the edge of the upper cavity of the radius is received during the forced flexion of the joint. 448. Structure, Articulations, and Development. The humerus •I'is compact in its body, spongy and cellular at the extremities, and '■"contains a large medullary canal. It is articulated to the scapula, ■■'the radius, and the ulna; and is developed by eight points of ossification, one for the body, one for the head, one for the large tuberosity, one for the small tuberosity, one for the pulley of the lower extremity, one for each of the condyles, and commonly one for the small head. OF THE BONES OF THE FOEE-AUM, OF THE HADIUS. 449. The Radius, which is situated nearly vertically at the outer part of the fore-arm, is shorter than the ulna by the length of the olecranon; it is smaller above than at its lower part, and is slightly curved inwards about the middle. It is divided as follows. 450. Body or Middle Part. It is prismatic and trigonal. Its anterior surface becomes gradually broader as it descends, is plain ' in the greater part of its extent, and about a third from the upper extremity presents the orifice of the medullary canal,* which is dn-ected upwards :f the three upper fourths of this surface give attachment to the flexor longus poUicis manus, and its lower fourth to the pronator quadratus. Its posterior surface is convex in its upper third, which is covered by the supinator brevis ; in the rnuldle it is shghtly concave, and receives the insertions of the ex- tensors of the thumb; at the lower part it is convex, and is cover- ed by the extensor communis digitorum, extensor proprius indicis, and extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The outer surface, which s rounded and convex in its whole extent, gives attachment at its upper part to the supinator brevis ; in the middle, where a rou^rh impression is observed, to the pronator teres ; and, at its low^er part, IS covered by the tendons of the radial extensors of the car- p. 331. ^ocnin. Dc Corj/. Jlum.fuL To.n. i. th^n,ml ^"''"5''' "«'««^"Pfi"" "f fig- 3. I'lute xix. of Mitchell's Engravings of K