ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 362 1333. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata. The posterior is applied, from above downwards, upon the united psoas magnus and iliacus internus, the rectus femoris, vastus intcrnus, adductor longus, adductor magnus and graciUs muscles, the crural artery about the middle of the thigh, and, at i^s lower part, the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Its inner edge forms above with the adductor longus, a triangular space, in which is lodged the crural artery, with the vein and nerve of the same name. 1334. It bends the leg upon the thigh, and brings its inferior extremity toward that of the opposite side, so as to make them cross each other ; by continuing to act, it bends the thigh upon the pel- vis. If the leg cannot be bent, it draws the whole inferior extre- mity upon the pelvis, turning it outwards in rotation. It prevents the pelvis from falling backwards, or bends it upon the thigh. OF THE RECTUS FEMOllIS. 1335. The Rectus Femoris, (yp"\ter prior mmculi quadricipi- tis femoris,) is an elongated muscle, flattened at its extremities, slightly rounded and broader at the middle, and exactly fusiform. It lies vertically at the anterior part of the thigh, and arises from the iliac bone by two tendons. One of them is straight and em- braces the anterior and inferior spine of that bone; the other, which is longer, broader, and curved, turns round the edge of the cotyloid cavity, to the upper part of which it is attached, sending some fibres into the capsule of the articulation. These two tendons after a short passage, unite into a single tendon, which descends vertically, and almost immediately expands into an aponevirosis, ■■ which occupies the fore part of the upper third of the muscle, and gives rise posteriorly to the fleshy fibres. These form a vertical and bulging bundle, and are inserted successively into the fore part of another aponeurosis, which lies upon the posterior surface of the muscle, from the place where the other terminates. This aponeu- rosis, after becoming narrower and thicker, separates and forms a flat tendon, which is confounded with those of the three following . muscles. r, 1336. The anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata, and by the iliacus and sartorius muscles; the posterior is applied upon the hip joint, the external circumflex vessels, and the cruralis. 1337. It extends the leg upon the thigh, or the thigh upon the leg. If the leg is extended, it bends the thigh upon the pelvis, or the pelvis upon the thigh. When one is standing, it fixes the . pelvis, and prevents it from falling back.