or THE AKTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. 17.3 tcrmcdiate in (brm and properties to the ligaments and carti- lii<'-cs, were formerly considered as true ligaments. Thoy are in fact firmed of a sort of hard, tenacious, dense and compact, fibrous base, in the meshes of which is deposited a true cartilaginous sub- stance, to which are owing the white colour which characterizes them, the inorganic appearance which their section presents in se- veral'places, and the elasticity which they particularly possess. Tlie resistance which they oppose to ruptures, and their solidity, are on the other hand derived from the nature of their base. They are almost always met with in the interval of the surfaces of certain moveable articulations, as in the knee or jaw ; they also exist between the bodies of the vertebrte. Their form is singular- ly variable ; they commonly represent a kind of plates, generally free at their two surfiices, and occasionally perforated in the centre. They are not covered by a perichondrium. But few blood-vessels are observed in them, and no nerves have yet been discovered. Their elasticity is very manifest. Desicca- tion renders them hard and brittle, without giving them a yellow tint. Reagents act upon them, as upon the two systems whose aature they seem equally to participate. ■ 569. Articular Synovial Membranes or Capsules. These mem- branes have the greatest resemblance to the serous membranes, with reference to their form, structure, and functions. They oc- cur in all the moveable articulations without exception, and form bags without apertures, transparent, and applied over all the parts which enter into the composition of the joint, without containing any of them. Their internal surface is free, contiguous to itself smooth, polished, often furnished with villosities and fimbriated prolongations, and continually lubricated by an albuminous fluid, cof an aspect almost similar to that of the cavity of the pleura or peritoneum. Their external surface is cellular, and is attached to all the neighbouring organs, the ligaments, fibro-cartilages, diar- throdial partilages, &c.; it is often seen to form small hernije be- tween the fibres of the capsules. These articular synovitxl capsules vary much in their general asl pect. There are some which represent round and simple bags, as IS the case at the phalangeal articulations. Others, as in the coxo-femoral, and scapulo-humeral articulations, are traversed by a ligament or by a tendon, round which they are reflected so as to Ibrm a sheath. These membranes are absolutely cellular, as is proved by mace- ration, there being no distinct fibre in them. Their tissue is den- ser, and less pliant than that of the serous membranes; their ves- sels do not in the healthy state admit red blood. No lymphatic vessels have as yet been discovered in them, but it may be presum- od that they exist in great abundance. No nerve has ever been observed in them. Ihe synovial membranes apjicar entirely foreign to the solidity the articulations; and only favour their moliuns by exhaling a