OF THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. kind of real implantation, of wliicli an evident example is present- ed by the reception of the teeth into their alveoU. 558. The following table is intended to represent, in a complete and accurate manner, all that belongs to the division and differ- ences- of the articulations of bones, as well as their nomenclature. A. Movieahle Articulations, or Diartliroses* a. Surfaces intimately united by an intervening body, which constitutes Amphiarthe.osis.-|- rEx. The junction of the bodies of the vertebrce with each other ; that of the ossa pubis ; tJie articulation of the upper part oftlie sternum. b. Surfaces not united as in the preceding case,| 1°. And permitting motions of circumduction, or in all possible idu-ections. This is the orbicular or vagzie Diarthrosis, which is 1 divided into Enarthrosis,$ in which the motions are performed by means of a head ■i received into a cavity ; Ex. Articulation of tlie os innoniinatum and femur ; Or, by means of a cavity which revolves on a head ; Ex. Artiadation of the ~, first phalanges of the fingers witli tlie metacarpal bones. AkthhodiAjII which is formed by the contact of plain, or nearly plain sur- ; faces, whose motions are very manifest; Ex. Articidation of tlie lower jaw ; Or obscure, called by some authors the planifurni, or close Diarthrosis, (ar- ' ticulus adstrictus) and which others have considered as the true Amphiarthro- sis.—Ex. Articulation of the bones of the carpus. 2°. Or, only permitting limited motions of opposition. This is the GiNGLYMUs,^ or alternating or Cardiniform Diakthkosis. It is distinguished into Angular Ginglymus, or Hingk, of which the motions are commonly re- duced to flexion and extension. It is called perfect, if these motions are ab- solutely the only ones allowed;—Ex. 7'he elbow joint ; Or imperfect, if some lateral motions are also permitted.—Ex. The knee- joint. Lateral Ginglymus, or Rotatory Diarthrosis, in which rotation is the only possible motion, and which is double, when a bone turns on another by two given points.—Ex. The radius vn the ulna; Or simple, if the motion is performed at a single point.—Ex. Articulation of the atlas with the odontoid process. B. Immoveable Articulations or Synarthroses*^' j 1°. SuTURE.ff Thearticular surfaces, more or less thick, constantly invest- ed with a cartilaginous plate intimately united to both, receive each other by * A/i, per ; articulus. .1/.. ^^'"'^'''"""9"''' mixed articulation; it is also called conlinu. ' "«« JJiarllirosis. I TJl"".'" cMed Contiguous Diarthrosis. u . o "v' "-ik""! articu/iix; the preposition indicates a deep reception. II Aj3{«o,«, Calai, lib de Ossibus. Ij- v^^"'"*'**XvM,cum; anC^o,, artiadus ; coartkulatio. TT '■o'turu, a scam.