ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 70G vexity of these primary arches, there arise other smaller twigs, which presently divide in the same manner, and constitute second- ary arches by new anastomoses similar to the first. These second arches in like manner give rise to other twigs which form third arches ; and from these again come off others of a fourth order, which themselves produce a fifth, quite close to the intestine. 253G. All these twigs thus constitute in the mesentery a kind of net-work, of which the very numerous areohc vary in their form and size. These areolae are themselves traversed by very delicate twigs which go from one branch to another, and which by the way give ramifications to the mesentery and its lymphatic ganglia. 2537. Near the edge of the small intestines, in the place where the two laminsE of the mesentery leave a triangular interval be- tween them, the vascular net-work, which we have described, ab- ruptly ceases, and furnishes a great number of small parallel twigs, which proceed directly over the two surfaces of the intestine, and pass into the cellular tissue between the mucous and muscular coats, where they ramify and subdivide to infinity, taking the ap- pearance of small shrubs. When they have arrived at the convex edge of the intestine, those of one side anastomose with those of the opposite side, in such a manner as to represent rings. 2538. The capillary ramifications, which the mucous membrane receives from all these branches, form at its surface a net-work of the greatest delicacy, which spreads out in the valvular conniventes and in the villosities which it presents. OF THE INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. (^Arteria mesaraica inferior.) 2539. Somewhat smaller tlian the superior, it arises much lower from the anterior and left part of the aorta, at the distance of an inch and a half from its termination. It descends at first a httle to the left, behind the lamina of the peritoneum, which goes to form the corresponding lamina of the mesentery, then, bending to the right, it enters into the substance of the iliac mesocolon (2196), forming a much less extended curve than that of the su- perior mesenteric artery, and whose convexity also looks to the left. Arrived at the brim of the pelvis, it prolongs itself into the poste- rior separation of the mesorectum, and reaches near to the anus. 2540. The concavity of the curve formed by the inferior mesen- teric artery produces no branch, but there issue a great number from its convexity. Of these the three principal branches have received the name of Left Colic Arteries. 2541. Superior Left Colic Artery, {Art. colica sinisti-a superior.) It is the largest of the three, and comes off opposite the bifurcation of the aorta. Directed almost transversely to the left, it arrives near the lumbar colon of tlic same side, and there separates into