MUSCLES OF THE FACE. i267 918. Its anterior surface is covered above by the preceding muscle, and the infra-orbitar vessels and nerves, and below by the zygomaticus minor and skin. The posterior ssurface covers the fossa cauina, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and buccina- tor. 919. It raises the commissure of the lips and carries it inwards. OF THE ZYGOMATICUS MAJOR. 920. This muscle is situated obliquely at the fore part and on the sides of the fiice. It is elongated, slender, rounded, and is at- tached by aponeuroses, below the outer surface of the malar bone, hear its posterior angle; whence, becoming a little broader, it descends inwards and forwards, and terminates at the commissure of the lips, where it is continuous with the levator anguli oris, de- pressor anguli oris, buccinator and orbicularis, sometimes bifur- cating. 921. Its anterior surface is concealed above by the orbicularis palpebrarum, and farther down by the skin, from which it is often separated by an enormous quantity of fat. The posterior surface covers the malar bone, the masseter and buccinator muscles, the labial vein, and a more or less considerable mass of adipose tissue. 922. It raises the commissure of the lips, which it carries back- wards and outwards. It acts principally in laughing. OF THE ZYGOMATICUS MINOR. 923. This muscle does not occur in all subjects. It is situated internally of the preceding and above it, is flat, elongated, and very thin. It arises from the outer surface of the malar bone, and sometunes even seems to be detached from the orbicularis palpe- brarum, and descends more or less obliquely inwards, terminating in the levator labii superioris, or in the orbicularis oris. 924. Its anterior surface is covered by the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum. The posterior covers the malar bone, the levator anguli oris, and the labial vein. 925. It raises the upper lip and draws it outwards. OF THE DEPRESSOll LAEII SUPEIIIORIS AL^QUE NASI. 926. This is a small fleshy bundle, somewhat irregular, placed beneath the wing of the nose and behind the upper lip. It arises, by short aponeuroses, near the anterior nasal spine, from a small iossa, whence it ascends in part toward the posterior region of the ■wmg of the nose, and is partly confounded with the levator labii superioris alocque nasi and the orbicularis oris. Internally, its