PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 196 of the pelvis. Their inner edge sends towards the anus an apon- eurotic expansion which supports the levator ani muscle. ()31. Long Sacro-iliac Ligament, (Li(/amentu7n jjosficum Inn- gum ossis ilei). This ligament, which is situated over the portion of the great sacro-sciatic ligament that comes from the crest of the ossa innominata, is attached on the one hand to the posterior and superior spine of the ilium, and on the other to the lateral and pos- terior parts of the sacrum, opposite the third or fourth posterior sa- cral foramen, and externally of it. It consists of a very strong, long, flat, nearly vertical fasciculus, broader above than below, with fibres so much the longer the more superficial they are. It is covered by the glutat'us maximus, which even has some points of attachment to it, and is strengthened by a shorter and thinner fibrous fasciculus, which intermingles with it upon the sacrum, af- ter having risen from the posterior and inferior iliac spine. C32. Short Sacro-iliac Ligament, (Ligamentnm posticum breve ossis ilei). It is very irregular, very short, and occupies posteriorly the space which the sacrum and ossa innominata leave between them, before the mass of the muscles of the vertebral grooves. The fibres which constitute it are much shorter before, near the articulation, than behind; they cross each other in a num- ber of diflcrent directions, and are very close, and possessed of great firmness : they are attached on the one hand to the two first eminences of the posterior aspect of the sacrum, and to the sides of that bone at their upper part; and on the other, to the internal surface of the iliac tuberosity. Such is their adhesion to these parts, that if the sacrum and os innominatum be forcibly separated, the surface of one or other of these bones is detached along with them, without their being ruptured. C33. Besides these different ligaments, there arc still several fi- brous bundles which concur to unite the sacrum with the os inno- minatum ; bvit they are irregularly disposed, and have nothing con- stant in their form or appearance. Some are situated behind the sacrum, and form a sort of membranous circle around each poste- rior sacral hole. Most of these are attached, by their extremities, to two separate tubercles, while their middle part is raised up so as to permit blood vessels to pass under them. The others, which only consist of some irregular fibres, expanded into membranes, are placed before the sacro-iliac symphysis, and vary much in their length and direction. They present a very shining appearance, and are confounded with the periosteum of the sacrum and ossa innominata. ' ARTICULATION Oil SYMPHYSIS OF THE PUBES. • (Symphysis seu Cmnmissnra Ossinni Pubis). G34. This articulation is formed by the contact of two slightly