ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 304> lateral form, broader transversely than from above downwards, ex- tended at the fore part of the carpus, and converting into a canal the groove which that part presents. It is attached externally to the fore part of the trapezius and scaphoides, and furnishes inser- tions to the abductor, opponens, and flexor brevis of the thumb. Internally, it is attached to the pisiform bone, the process of the os unciforme, and a ligament which descends from the one to the other (692.) It affords some points of origin to the opponens minimi digiti, and receives a prolongation of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Its upper edge is continuous with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm; the lower is confounded with the palmar aponeurosis. Its anterior surface is covered by the tendon of the palmaris longus, which is intimately united to it by the palmaris brevis muscle, the skin, and the ulnar nerve and vessels. The posterior surface contributes to the formation of a canal, in which the tendons of the two common flexors and the median nerve pass; it also covers the flexor carpi radialis and flexor longus poUicis. The fibres of this tendinous band are very numerous, transverse, and very close upon each other. 1109. Posterior Annular Ligamerd {Ligamentum annulare pos- terius). This is placed behind the wrist-joint, where it is extended transversely over the fibrous sheaths of the extensor ossis meta- carpi, and extensor primi internodii pollicis, the radial extensors, extensor secundi internodii polUcis, extensor communis digitorum, extensor proprius indicis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. It belongs much more than the preceding to the aponeu- rosis of the fore-arm, and must not be confounded with these; sheaths, which it only serves to cover. Its fibres are transverse, parallel, and very white; they are traversed by blood-vessels. They are attached on the one hand to the outer and lower part of the ra- dius, and terminate on the other, at the lower part of the ulna, and at the external region of the os pisiforme. This ligament is much weaker than the anterior. OF THE PALMAR APONEUllOSIS. 1110. This aponeurosis, which is extremely dense and strong, covers the palm of the hand. It is of a triangular form, broader below than above. It seems to arise above from the expansion of the tendon of the palmaris longus, but also receives fibres from the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, (1108,) and four or five oblique bundles detached from the lower part of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The fibres of which it is composed descend, be- coming smaller and diverging, to the lower part of the metacarpus; there, they separate, and form four isolated slips, connected by new transverse fibres. These slips bifurcate towards the articula- tions of the metacarpal bones and phalanges, for the passage of the flexor tendons, each of the branches of their bifurcation twists