65 OV THIi PALATE liONK. inferior meatus, which is separated from another depression situat- ed above, and forming part of the middle meatus, by a rough hori- aontal ridge (crisia turbinalis inferior), united to the inferior tur- binated bone. Its Outer Surface is in general uneven, and is ar- ticulated with the inner surfxce of the maxillary bone ; it presents, posteriorly, a groove more or less deep, which contributes to the formation of the posterior palatine canal, and above, a small smooth triangular surface which is seen in the zygomatic fossa. 213. The Anterior Edge of this portion of the bone is very un- even and thin, and is prolonged inferiorly into a very brittle bony plate, which contracts the entrance of the maxillary sinus, and is received into the slit of which we have made mention (203) in de- scribiu"- that orifice. 214. The Posterior Edge, which is equally uneven with the last, rests in a great measure upon the inner side of the pterygoid pro- cess ; in order to be articulated to it, it is even frequently hollow- ed, in nearly its whole length, by a narrow groove, broader below than above. At its union with the guttural edge of the horizontal portion, there is observed a very prominent pyramidal eminence, inclined outwards and downwards, (processus pyraniidalis) which fills up the bifurcation of the two wings of the pterygoid process. Superiorly and internally, this process is hollowed by three channels, the two lateral of which uneven, and furnished with slight asperities, receive the summit of these wings, while the middle one, which is smooth and polished, completes the pterygoid fossa: the inner gi-oove is the deepest. Below, it presents a narrow surface belong- ing to the palatine arch, in which are seen the orifices of accessory posterior palatine canals. Externally, it forms part of the zygo- matic fossa, and gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle, also presents some inequalities for the purpose of uniting with the upper maxillary bone. In the latter place, the posterior palatine canal, ceasing to be in'part formed in the maxillary bone, is entire- ly formed in its substance. 215. Its Upper Edge is surmounted by two eminences, the anteri- or of which is larger than the other, a little incUned outwards, and is named the Orbitar Process; it is supported by a contracted portion, formmg a sort of neck or pedicle, on the inner side of which there are observed a slight ridge (crista ttcrhinalis superior) which is articulated with the ethmoidal turbinated bone, and a small chan- nel belonging to the superior meatus of the nasal fossae ; the form ot this process is such as to present five distinct surfaces : 1° An anterior, uneven, inchned downwards and outwards, which is arti- culated to the maxillary bone; 2° A posterior, deHected inwards ana upwards, united to the sphenoid bone by means of some rn^o- sities surrounding a cellule, in the substance of the process, whTch IS continuous with the sphenoidal sinuses; 3° An outer, smooth, inclined backwards, forming part of the zygomatic fossa; 4° An «wier, inclined downwards, concave, frequently hollowed by a cell,