OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 731 muscles. Resting above upon the tibialis posticus muscle, it pas- ses through its fibres lower down, and is placed below upon the interosseous ligament. The twigs which it furnishes in the whole of this course are dis- tinguished into 2658. External and Posterior Twigs. These are the largest. They descend obliquely in the soleus and gastrocneraii muscles, in which they lose themselves. Sotoe of them are distributed to the integuments. 2659. Internal Twigs. They are much smaller and distributed in the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum and flexor proprius pollicis. One of them, arising from the lowest part of the artery, directs itself transversely before the flexor muscles, and anasto- moses with the posterior tibial. 2660. Near the malleolus externus, the fibular artery divides into two branches, which are the following :— 2661. Posterior Fibular Artery. It follows the original course of the artery, descends behind the inferior articulation of the fibula, and passes over the outer side of the calcaneum. It distributes numerovis twigs to the tibialis posticus, flexores digitorum, pero- neus longus and brevis muscles, the ankle joint, the tendo Achillis, &c. On the calcaneum, it separates into several twigs, which ex- pand upon the outer, upper, and back part of the foot, and are distributed to the extensor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti muscles, the integuments, and the surrounding adipose cellu- lar tissue. One of them passes imder the outer malleolus, and proceeds forwards to communicate with a twig of the anterior tibial artery (2649). 2662. Anterior Fibular Artery. It is sometimes wanting. When it exists, it perforates the inferior extremity of the interos- seous ligament, passes under the peroneus tertius, to which it gives some twigs, descends vipon the inferior articulation of the fibula with the tibia, bends forwards and inwards, and anastomoses with the anterior tibial, forming a small arch, from which proceed twigs in greater or less number, but generally of small size, and which immediately lose themselves in the neighbouring parts. OF THE rOSTERIOll TIBIAL AUTEIIY. (^Art. Tibialis Postica). 2663. Situated at the posterior part of the leg, but less deeply than the preceding, the Posterior Tibial Aytery directs itself a little obliquely inwards, slightly flexuous, and then descends verti- cally between the two pi anes of the posterior muscles of the leg, as far as under the arch of the calcaneum, where it separates into two branches, which are the Plantar Arteries. It follows the course of