OF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. 99 almost directly into the alveolus of the wisdom tooth; another opens into the cavity of tdbe maxillary sinus; a third, which is lodo-ed in the substance of the wall of that sinus, divides into seve- ral branches as it passes above the roots of the molar teeth. DIMENSIONS OF THE FACE. 338. The face is of much less extent than the cranium, and does not form more than a third of the head in the adult. Its middle vertical diameter is much longer before than behind, where it is represented by the guttural edge of the vomer, while in the former direction, it extends from the chin to the upper part of the nose. The breadth of the face is nearly the same before and be- hind, where it is limited on each side by the parotideal edge of the inferior maxillary bone; but anteriorly it is greater above than below, as we have already said (322). The place where the transverse diameter is shortest, is between the two maxillary tuberosities. The longitudinal diameter has also nearly equal dimensions above, where it extends from the root of the nose to the sphenoidal pro- cess of the palate bone, and below, where it is carried from the chin to the middiie of a line drawn from one angle of the lower jaw to the other; but at the middle part it is much diminished, and is li- mited by the two nasal spines. OF THE HEAD IN GENERAL. 339. We mentioned that the head is the upper extremity of the trunk, and that therefore it is properly speaking an appendage of it. This we hope to render evident by showing, with M. Dume- ril,* that the head is merely a vertebra of which the different parts are excessively enlarged and form separate pieces. In fact, the occi- pital hole may be considered as being the commencement of the spinal canal; the basilar process and the body of the sphenoid bone correspond, in their structure and uses, to the bodies of the vertebra?, whose articidar processes are represented by the occipital condyles, wliile the external occipital protuberance, and the bony spaces comprised beneath it, are analogous to their spinous pro- cesses and laminae, and, lastly, the transvere processes are repre- sented by the mastoid processes of the temporal bone. This strik- ing analogy is further strengthened by a comparison of the muscles which serve to move the spine and the head, and by the examina- tion of the various modifications which these two parts present in the difiercnt classes of animals. It is, moreover, somewhat re- markable, that this analogy shovdd be more especially evident in, the part of the skull in which the commencement of the spinal mar- row is lodged. • Memoir mid to the Institute, tlie ISlli and 22d February 1808.