ORGANS OF CinCULATION, C98 acute angle, and immediately ascend obliquely outwards, before the vertebral column. This inclination upwards is always much greater in the upper than in the lower intercostals. 2498. The right intercostal arteries are longer than the left by the whole breadth of the oesophagus, under which they pass; in other respects, however, they are precisely the same on both sides. The first are lodged in the groove which each body of the vertebrae presents as far as the articulation of the rib with the spine, and are covered by the oesophagus and vena azygos, the direction of whicli they cross. The second are in relation with the vertebrae only in a much smaller space, and are only covered, in this first part of their course, by the pleura and thoracic ganglia. 2499. Near the articulations of the vertebra? with the ribs, on entering the space to which it is to belong, each intercostal artery divides into two branches. 2500. Dorsal Branch. It directs itself backwards between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, internally of the anterior costo-transverse ligament. It furnishes at first some small twigs to the periosteum of the vertebra?, together with small branches which anastomose by an arch, upwards and downwards, with the nearest intercostals- Then, through the intervertebral hole it sends off' another twig which is distributed to the spinal marrow and its envelopes. Lastly, it traverses the fleshy bundles of the multifidus spin;!? muscle, descends between it and the lon- gissimus dorsi, and loses itself in the latter and sacro-lumbalis muscle, sending some twigs to the skin. 2501. Intercostal Branch pi'operly so called. This, which is much larger than the preceding, may be considered as the continu- ation of the artery itself. It proceeds, winding a little, to the mid- dle of the intercostal space, between the pleura and external inter- costal mviscles, and in the midst of much adipose cellular tissue. Immediately after, it divides into two twigs which enter between the two planes of the intercostal muscles. 2502. Inferior Twig. It is rather of small size, and follows at first for some time the upper edge of the rib which is beneath, and then directs itself upon its outer surface to subdivide in the perios- teum. 2503. Superior Twig. It is much larger, and runs along the lower edge of the rib which is above, situated in the groove which that edge presents (86). Towards the anterior third of the rib, it leaves that groove and the bone, and directs itself to the middle of the intercostal space. There, as in the rest of its course, it gives numerous twigs to the intercostal muscles, the periosteum of the ribs and the pleura. Some of them pass to the superficial muscles on the outside of the thorax, while others anastomose with the di- visions of the inferior twig. Lastly, the branch itself terminates towards the fore part of the thorax, by anastomosing with the branches of the internal mammary artery (2414), if it belongs to one of the intervals which separate the true ribs; if, on the con-