OF THE ULNA. 131 long bones ; it contains a medullary canal, wliich is more distinct, and wider above than below. It is articrdated with the humerus and ulna, and the scaphoid and semilunar bones. It is developed by three points of ossification, one for the body, and one for each of the extremities. OF THE ULNA. 455. Form. The Uhia or Cubitus, is a long irregular bone, situated at tlie inner part of the fore-arm ; it is larger above than below, is a little longer than the radius, and like it is divided into a body and two extremities. 456. The Body or Middle Portion, is curved forwards at its upper part, backwards and outwards at the lower, while its middle region is straight. Its anterior surface, which is concave above, gives attachment at its upper part, where it is broad, to the nexor profundus, which is also attached to its middle ; and at the lower part, W'here it is narrow, to the pronator quadratus. Near its up- per part is observed the orifice of a canal for the passage of vessels into the bone, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface is divided into two parts by a longitudinal prominent Ime ; of these parts, the inner, which is broader, gives attachment, from above downwards, to the anconeus and extensor carpi ulnaris ; while the outer, which is narrower, receives, in the same direction the inser- tions of the supinator brevis, extensors of the thumb, and extensor indicis. The inner surface, which is very broad and somewhat concave at the upper part, is covered in its three upper fourths, by the flexor profundus ; while at the lower part, it is much con- tracted, and becomes sub-cutaneous. 467- These three surfaces are separated by as many edges. The outer is sharp in the three upper fourths of its length, rounded be- low, and gives attachment to the interosseous ligament. The anterior edge, which is more rounded, gives insertion, at its upper part, to the flexor profundus, and, below, to the pronator quadratus. The posterior edge is very distinct in its three upper fourths, and there gives attachment to an aponeurosis common to the flexor carpi ul- naris, flexor profundus and extensor carpi ulnaris ; it gradually becomes obliterated below. 458. The Upper or Humeral Extremity is very large, of an ir- regular form, difficult to be described, and is formed principally by two processes. One of these is called the Olecranon*, (processus anconeus) ; this is situated posteriorly, and at a much higher level than the rest of the bone ; at its upper part it gives attach- ment to the triceps extensor; posteriorly, it presents a narrow tri- angular surface, covered solely by the skin; while anteriorly it is concave and invested with cartilage. The other process, which is • n'p.sxjavov cubiti pars glbbera ; ilMvn, cubitus ; kqkvo;, galea.