24 PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTIOiV. face of its body being cut obliquely upwards, as it were, to be ar- ticulated with the sacrum. Its transverse processes are short, but strong and rounded.* 64. The following are the distinctive characters of the different vertebrae: 1st, Cervical vertebra:. Spinous process bifurcated; base of the transverse processes perforated by a hole. 2d, Dorsal vertebrce. Articular surfaces on the sides of the body, and on the summit of the transverse processes. 3d, Ltcmbar vertehrce. Spinous processes quadrilateral, flat, horizontal, tubercular at the lower angle of the extremity ; superior articular processes concave ; inferior convex. 4th, Atlas. No spinous process or body ; an annular form. 5th, Axis. Body surmounted by a large rounded tooth-like process 6th, Prominent vertebra. Spinous process very prominent. 7th, First Dorsal vertebra. An entire articular surface above, a half surface only below, on the sides of the body. 8th, Tenth Dorsal vertebra. A single entire depression on each side of the body. 9th, Eleventh Dorsal vertebra. Only one articular surface on either side of the body; no articulating surface on the transverse processes. 10th, Twelfth Dorsal vertebra. The same characters; but the lower articular processes convex and turned outwards. OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN IN GENERAL. 65. Dimensions. We have already said that the twenty-four vertebrje united constitute the vertebral column, the length of which is nearly the same in aU individuals, unless when it happens to be distorted in consequence of some malformation. In general, it is about the third of the whole length of the body, and the more ordinary dimensions of its diflPerent regions are as follows : the cer- vical 5 inches, the dorsal 11, the lumbar about 7- It increases in thickness from above downwards, so as to repre- sent a pyramid with its base below. But this increase of thick- ness is not perfectly graduated; for the general pyramid which it represents seems to be composed of three subordinate pyramids, of which the lower has its base on the sacrum, and its summit at the fifth dorsal vertebra, which is also the summit of the middle pyramid, whose base corresponds to the first dorsal vertebra. The summit of the third pyramid occurs at the level of the axis, and is surmounted by the atlas, which is much broader than the other vertebra?. 66. Direction. Anteriorly, the vertebral column is convex • It not infrequently Iinjjpcns tliat the ossification of the lamina; and spinous processes of the foui th and fifth lumbar vertebra is imperfect. Vidt Losichjfe.