161 OF THE BONUS OF THE TOES. firsal bone, and the first phalanx of the second toe; the third is connected with the external cuneiform bone, the second and fourtli metatarsal bones, and the first phalanx of the corresponding toe ; the fourth is articulated with the os cuboides, the external cuneiform bone the third and fifth metatarsal bones, and the first phalanx of the fourth toe; lastly, the fifth is connected with the os cuboides, the fourth metatarsal bone, and the first phalanx of the httle toe. OF THE BONES OF THE TOES. 534). The Toes, {digiti pedis), like the fingers, are five in number, and are distinguished individually by their numerical names, count- ino- from within outwards. The first is also called the Great Toe, {hallux), and the fifth is designated by the name of Little Toe. The first only is formed of two phalanges; all the others have three. OF THE FIRST, METATARSAL OR PROXIMAL PHALANGES OF THE TOES. (Phalanges Posteriores.J 535. These phalanges are much longer than the others. They are much more slender and rounded than the corresponding pha- langes of the fingers, with the exception of that of the great toe, which is flattened and of great size. The rest gradually diminish in size. Their Body is very slender anteriorly, thicker behind; 1 its tipper surface is straight, convex, and corresponds to the tendons I of the extensors of the toes; the loiver is concave, especially to- wards the extremities, and corresponds to the tendons of the flexors; the lateral parts of this surface give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of these tendons ; the lateral surfaces are concave, and cor- respond to the tendons of the interosseous muscles and lumbricales. Their Posterior Eivtremity, which is larger than the anterior, pre- sents posteriorly a concave rounded surface, articulating with the head of the corresponding metatarsal bone, and has on each side a tubercle for the attachment of the lateral ligament. Their An- terior Extremity, which is much smaller, is formed by two con- dyloid prominences, which are close together above, and separated below by an intervening groove ; their greatest convexity is direct- ed downwards. On the sides of this extremity are observed the impressions of the lateral ligaments. M