OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. 711 cation, before the fourth lumbar vertebra. Its size is about the same as that of the hunbar arteries; but it is frequently much less. It descends vertically, and in a flexuous manner, over the sacro-vertebral articulation, and upon the anterior surface of the sacrum, placed, in the median hne of the body, behind the rectum, the superior hemorrhoidal vessels, and the nerves of the hypogas- tric plexus. It is very slender when it arrives at the coccyx, and terminates towards the summit of that bone, anastomosing by two arches with the lateral sacral arteries, and sending small twigs into the fat which surrounds the rectum, and into the ischiorcoccygeus muscle. 2561. The middle sacral artery furnishes a great number of la^ teral branches. The first frequently take the place of one of the inferior lumbar arteries. They are generally very small and irre- gular, and commimicate with the ileo-lumbar arteries. The others which are larger, come oft' to the right and left, at the middle of each false vertebra of the sacrum ; they direct themselves trans- versely outwards, and unite, near the anterior sacral holes, with the branches of the lateral sacral arteries. Sometimes they pass through these holes, and are distributed upon the last vertebral nerves. In their course they furnish many ramifications to the periosteum of the sacrum. OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTEillES. (Jrt. iliaccB Communes.) 2562. They result from the bifurcation of the aorta, opposite the hody of the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the fibro-cartilage which unites that vertebra to the fifth. They are of equal size, and descend, separating from each other at an acute angle, and di- , reeling themselves a httle forwards, as far as the sacro-iliac sym- physis, where they divide each into two large arteries which are called the Hypogastric and External Iliac. In the female, on account of the breadth of the pelvis, the two common iliac arteries form a larger angle than in the male. 2563. The right common iUac artery passes before the end of ihe vein of the same name, and covers, in a great part, the vena cava inferior. The left is accompanied internally and posteriorly by the left common iliac vein, and is only covered by the perito- neum. The ureters cross, anteriorly and at right angles, the direc- tion of each of them. Externally, they are both applied upon the psoae muscles. 2564. In their course, these arteries give olF no branch. They only give a few very slender twigs to the walls of the iliac veins the peritoneum, the lumbar lymphatic gangUa, and the ureters