322 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. tore-arm, and arises by a very thin aponeurosis expanded over its inner third, from the lower fourth of the anterior edge of the ulna, . and the corresponding part of the anterior surface of that bone. From thence it is directed transversely outwards, and terminates at the fore part of the lower fourth of the radius by indistinct apo- neuroses. Its anterior surface is covered by the flexor digitorum profundus, flexor longus poUicis, flexor carpi radialis, and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and by the radial and ulnar arteries. The posterior surface covers the two bones of the fore-arm, and the lower part of the interosseous ligament. 1176. It turns the radius upon its axis from without inwards, and thus induces pronation of the hand. 1177- The superficial muscles of the anterior region of the fore- arm are exposed, by dissecting off the skin and aponeurosis cover- ing them, while they are stretched by keeping the fore-arm ex- tended on the arm, and the hand extended on the fore-arm. The deep muscles are exposed by the removal of the superficial. But the terminations of all these muscles cannot be seen until the palm of tl>e hand is dissected. Superficial Radial Region. OF THE SUPINATOU LONGUS. 117^^- This muscle, which is elongated, fusiform, flattened from before backwards in its upper fourth, and transversely in the rest of its extent, arises, by very short tendinous fibres, and over an ex- tent of about two inches, from the outer edge of the humerus, be- tween the brachialis internus and triceps extensor ; an aponeurosis placed between it and the latter muscle, also affords an attach- ment to it. From thence it descends vertically, at first increases a little in thickness, then becomes considerably thinner, and termi- nates by a flat tendon, which, at first lying upon its anterior sur- face, becomes free about the middle of the fore-arm. This tendon, which is thin and rather broad above, becomes thicker and narrower as it descends, runs along the outer edge of the radius, and is in- serted near the base of the styloid process of that bone, sending off a fibrous elongation, which lines the groove in which the exten- sor dssis metacarpi, and extensor primi internodii poUicis glide (1203). 1179. The anterior side of this muscle is covered by the skin, and aponeurosis of the fore-arm. The posterior covers the supinator brevis, extensor carpi radialis longior, pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus poUi- cis, and the radial artery and nerve. The inner side is applied above, upon the brachialis internus, and the radial nerve. 1180. When the hand is in pronation, this muscle supinatcs it. It also assists in bending the fore-arm upon tlic arm, or tl)e latter upon the foi incr.