635 RIGHT AURICLE. lung of that side (2216), corresponds to the interval of the carti- lages of the fifth and sixth ribs, is furnished with much fat, and presents a depression which marks the point of union of the two grooves, of which we made mention in describing its surfaces. 2249. The heart contains four cavities, which are named its ventricles and auricles. The two auricles occupy its base, or its superior and posterior region. The two ventricles are contained in its inferior part. An auricle and a ventricle are placed to the right, and to the left the same disposition is observed. On each side, the auricle communicates with the corresponding ventricle; but the right cavities never communicate directly with the left in the natural state and after birth. In the right cavities there is found black blood, which is to be submitted to the action of the air in the lungs. In the left, there is found red blood which has already undergone this action. The former receive the blood from all parts of the body, and drive it into the lungs; the latter receive the blood from the lungs, and drive it through the whole body. RIGHT PART OF THE HEART. OF THE RIGHT AURICLE. 2250. The right or anterior auricle, {Auricula dewtra seu anterior) occupies the inferior, right, and anterior part of the base of the heart, and rests upon the diaphragm. Its form is very ir- regular and difficult to be described. Transversely elongated, it presents its greatest breadth to the right and behind, its narrowest part before and to the left, in which latter direction it is prolonged by a flattened loose appendage (proper auricle J, terminating in a point, irregularly dentated on its edges, and placed transversely between the aorta and the right ventricle. It is in general wider than the left auricle. 2251. Its outer surface is free externally; but internally it is united with the left auricle, below with the right ventricle, behind with the orifices of the two venag cavas. Anteriorly, it is surmount- ed by the appendage mentioned above. 2252. Its inner surface presents four sides for examination. 1°. Its posterior side presents at its upper part the orifice of the vena cava superior, directed obHquely forwards and downwards, and furnished with a rounded, thick, and fleshy projecting edge, more distinct and stronger posteriorly than anteriorly. This orifice is narrower than that of the vena cava inferior, which is situated be- low and more behind it, and which is directed obliquely upwards and inwards. These two apertures are very close to each other, and are even continuous by a portion of their circumference; in this common portion there is sometimes observed a more or less distinct tubercle (Tuhercuhcm Lowerij, which is nothing else than a prominence formed by fat or by a fleshy bundle.