ARTICULATIONS OF TIIIC SUPEIIIOU EXTREMITIES. 20? a cartilaoinous crust, which is continuous with the cartilages of the preceding articulation ; the same synovial membrane also extends to it; this articulation has only a single ligament. 6G8. AnnuUtr Ligament, (Ligamentum annulare sive orhlcu- lare radii). This is a very strong. Hat, fibrous band, about two lines broad, very dense, and sometimes cartilaginous, with circular fibres more apparent at the extremities than in the middle part. It surrounds the superior extremity of the radius, and with the small sigmoid cavity forms a sort of ring in which the radius turns. The ho-ament forms about three-fourths of this ring, and is attach- ed, on°the one hand, to the anterior edge of the small sigmoid ca- vity, and on the other, to its posterior edge. Its outer sxirface is covered by several muscles, and by the external lateral ligament of the preceding articulation which unites with it; its inner sur- face is lined by the synovial membrane ; its upper circumference, fixed by several of the ligaments of the elbow joint; the low- er free, and corresponds in the greater part of its extent to a reflection of the synovial membrane in the form of a cul-de-sac; only some oblique fibres, arising from the posterior part of the ul- na, beneath it, are attached to it posteriorly. MIDDLE RADIO-CUBITAT, ARTICULATION. 669. Interosseous Ligament, (Memhrana interossea, anti- hrachii). This ligament does not fill up the whole interval between the radius and ulna, being deficient from the elbow joint to the under part of the bicipital tuberosity, through which deficiency the posterior interosseous vessels pass. It has the form of a thin, aponeurotic, resplendent membrane, a little thicker above than below, composed of a great number of flat parallel fibrous fas- ciculi, placed one above the other in the same plane, and de- scending obliquely from the inner edge of the radius to the outer of the ulna. These principal fasciculi are connected by other very deUcate, loose and flexible fibres, leaving in their mtervals small apertures more or less apparent, which allow vessels and nervous filaments to pass, from one of the surfaces of the fore-arm, to that of the opposite side. The two lateral edges of this ligament are intimately incorporated with the pe- riosteum of the radius and ulna. Its anterior surface is covered, in its three upper fourths, by the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus poUicis manus, which are partly inserted into it, and have between them the anterior interosseous vessels; and m its lower fourth, by the pronator quadratus. Its posterior surface is in connexion with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis jnctacarpi poUicis, extensor primi internodii poUicis, extensor se- cundi internodii poUicis, and the extensor proprius indicis; it commonly presents two or three fibrous bands, which descend from