DIMENSIONS OF THK ClJANltJAr* 03 Other, or is even entirely wanting; nor is it rare to find it in tlie liimbdoicl suture. The cliainiel of which we speak is commonly larger on the right side, which is the cause of the variations which we have pointed out in the size of the foramina lacera posteriora. It circumscribes the lower occipital fossai, which receives the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and is surmounted at its origin by the internal auditory canal and the oritice of the aqueduct of the vestibule.* 316. It is only in man that the direction of the occipital hole is horizontal, and that it is situated nearly in the middle of the base of the cranium. In all other animals it is oblique, and situated behind; sometimes it is even vertical. We shall presently see what influence this circumstance has upon the position of the centre of gravity of the head, and upon the general attitude. DIMENSIONS OF THE CRANIUM* 317- The slightest inspection of a cranium that has been sawn horizontally is sufficient to show, that the part of it which has re- ceived the greatest development is situated at the level of the oc- cipital hole and basilar groove, the place where the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata vmite. But if it be desired to determine the dimensions of this cavity in a rigorous manner, the measurements must not be made on the external surface, be- cause very frequently it does not correspond with the internal, either in form or extent, on account of the variations that occur in the development of the diiferent sinuses existing in the bones, as well as in the thickness of the bones themselves, which is sometimes such that a person whose head appears very large may yet have a small brain. Facts like these are well adapted to fortify the young anatomist against the enthusiasm which might be inspired by sys- tems purely hypothetical. It is by measuring in the inside of the skull only that Ave can determine its diameters, of which there are three more important than the others. The first or longitudinal diameter extends from the foramen ccecum to the internal occipital protuberance; it is the largest, and measures somewhat more than five inches. The second or transverse diameter passes from the base of one petrous process to that of the other. It is about five inches. The third or vertical diameter, which is comprised between the anterior extremity of the occipital hole and the middle of the sa- gittal suture, is a few lines less than the transverse. * ^""tomists divide each of tlie planes above described into three, vvliich maifes the number of fossa: in the base of the craniiim nine, thnie middle and six lateral, or rather three anterior, tlirce middle, and three posterior, llie sella tur- cica IS the one which in all cases oceui)ies tlie centre.