^274< ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. aponeurosis, which sends some fibres to the outer part of the orbit, and contributes to the formation of the palpebral ligament. 959. Its upper surface is in contact, posteriorly, with the vault of the orbit, and with the frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. More anteriorly, it is covered by much adipose cellular tissue ; ami at its foremost part, the palpebral ligament separates it from the orbicularis palpebrarum. Its inferior surface is in connexion posteriorly, with the rectus superior, and anteriorly, with the tunica , conjunctiva. 960. It raises the upper eyelid, and draws it backwards within the orbit. OF THE RECTUS OCULI SUPERIOR. (Attollens Oculum). 961. It is situated under the levator palpebraj superioris, and has the same form as that muscle, but is a little shorter. It is attached, posteriorly, between it and the optic foramen, to the pro- cess of Ingrassias and fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, ming- ling there a little with the rectus internus; it then proceeds hori- zontally forwards to the upper part of the eye-ball, where it degenerates into a thin aponeurosis, which transmits a part of its fibres to the sclerotic membrane. 962. This aponeurosis, as well as that which terminates toward the eye the other three recti, is separated from that organ by a smaU indistinct synovial capsule, the walls of which are soft, and as it were downy. 963. Its upper surface is covered by the levator palpebrse su- perioris, from which it is separated by some nervous filaments, anc^ by the membrana conjunctiva; the inferior surface rests, poste- riorly, on the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery, and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, and, anteriorly, upon the eye it- self. 964. It raises the eye. OF THE RECTUS INFERIOR. (Depressor Oculi). 965. This muscle is of the same form as the preceding, and lies upon the floor of the orbit. It arises posteriorly from a tendon common to it with the internal and external recti, and pro- ceeds horizontally towards the ball of the eye, on which it ter- minates in the same manner as the rectus superior, and two fol- lowing muscles.