OF THE RADIAL AUTEllY. 691 nishcs twigs, above, for the pronator quadratus, and, below, for the 1 ligaments of the wrist. 2464. The second branch {superjicialis voice) is superficial, and varies much as to size. It descends obliquely before the an^ :terior annular hgament of the wrist, and gains the palm of the hand, after passing through the upper extremity of the abductor pollicis. It anastomoses with the extremity of the superficial palmar arch, formed by the ulnar artery, and sends a great num- ber of twigs to the muscles and integuments of the external palmar : region. ' OF THE RADIAL ASTEHY BEHIND THE WIIIST. 2465. It is only covered, in this region, by the tendons of the textensores pollicis, and by the integuments. It is applied upon ( the ligaments of the carpus, and upon the upper part of the first ! metacarpal Ibone. The branches which here come off from it are i distinguished into internal and external. 2466. External Branches. They are three in number, and are distributed to the thumb. The first descends under the ten- dons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii, • pollicis, and goes to the attachment of the abductor pollicis, where i it loses itself The second, which arises a little lower, is called I the Dorsal Artery of the Thumb, (Art. dorsalis pollicis). It I descends obliquely outwards, behind the first metacarpal bone and ( over the first phalanx of the thumb, and terminates by anastomos- i ing with its external collateral artery, after distributing some very : small twigs to the periosteum, the integuments and the abductor 1 muscle of the thumb. The third descends along with the tendon ! of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, upon the inner edge of I the first metacarpal bone. It gives ramifications to the periosteuiri and abductor muscle of the fore-finger. 2467- Internal Branches. They are two in number. One be- I longs to the carpus, the other to the metacarpus. 1°. Dorsal Artery of the Carpus, (Art. dorsalis carpi a radiali). '. It arises opposite the outer edge of the tendon of the extensor carpi ! radiahs longior, and directs itself transversely inwards over the posterior surface of the second row of carpal bones, covered by the tendons of the extensores carpi radiales and extensores digitorum, : and terminates by anastomosing with a similar branch of the ulnat artery, or by dividing into several twigs. But, in its course, it gives off very short superior twigs, which lose themselves upon the ' hgaments of the radio-carpal articulation, and communicate with \ those of the anterior interosseous artery, and longer inferior twigs, i in indetcnninate number, which descend towards the superior ex- ' tremitics of the metacarpal bones, where they anastomose with the ! perforating arteries of the deep palmar arch. They then proceed