ORGANS OF SENSATION. 414 it forms as it were the centre, and of which it weighs only tlie six- tieth or sixty-fifth part. Its consistence is greater than tliat of the i two preceding organs. Situated between the cerebrum and cere- \ bellum, it has intimate connexions with both, by means of strong I prolongations. It is hmited above, towards the cerebrum, by a f circular groove or depression, broad and deep anteriorly, superfi- cial and not very distinct posteriorly ; and below, by a semicircular contraction where the medulla oblongata commences. It presents a pretty regularly quadrilateral form; its breadth is \ nearly equal to its thickness; and it is directed obliquely down- I wards and backwards. 1512. Anterior Surface. It is directed downwards, convex, broader than the upper surface, and rests upon the basilar groove ' (314.) Like a portion of a ring, it embraces the crura cerebri, on which account it has been called the Annular Protuheiance. Ii is marked along the median line by a broad groove, rounded at i the bottom, in which the basUar artery is placed. On each side, i several other smaller grooves, approaching more or less the trans- verse direction, and more superficial, lodge the branches of the same artery. 1513. Posterior Surface. The posterior surface is directed up- il wards, and is almost entirely concealed by the inferior notch of the 'l circumference of the cerebellum. It presents on its upper part j four tubercles, (tubercula qtiadrigemina), which are white exter- nally, gray internally, oblong, rounded, approaching each other in pairs, and separated by two grooves whicia intersect each other in a crucial manner. Of these four tubercles, which are seldom of equal size, the two upper (Nates) are larger, broader, and more prominent than the inferior, (Testes). They are situated imme- diately behind the posterior commissure. The pineal gland cor- responds to the point of the intersection of the two grooves. Below and on the outside of the inferior tubercles, there is observed, onij each side, an elongated eminence, which might be taken for a third pair of tubercles, and which is prolonged towards the root of the optic nerve. Behind the tubercula quadrigemina, is a pulpy la- mina, of a grayish colour, very thin, and easily torn, which ascends towards the cerebellum and forms the vault of the fourth ventricle. This is the Valvula Vieussenii. It appears composed of transverse fibrils and small laminae of a grayish substance, which are intersect- ed in their middle by a sort of longitudinal raphe. After passing beneath the anterior notch of the cerebellum, this lamina becomes broader, and a little thinner, and is united to the posterior wall of the fourth ventricle; by its sides it is evidently continuous with the processus a cerehello ad testes. Immediately beneath the point where it leaves the cerebral protuberance, there is observed an aperture which is the posterior orifice of the ylquedtict of Sylvius^ (iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum), by which the third and fourth ventricles communicate across the substance of the protu- berance itself. Farther down, is a slightly excavated and nearly 5