STRUCTURE OF THE BRAIN IN PARTICULAR. 42S < served that all the wlute bands are continuous with the original bundles of the corpora olivaria. 1535. Between the optic thalami and corpora striata, in a >: groove by which they are separated, there is observed a small slip I of thin, fibrous, semi-transparent whitish substance: this is the ; Tcenia semicircularis. It commences at the anterior extremity of I the optic thalamus, sometimes by several filaments, sometimes by : a single cord ; at this place, its fibrous texture is very apparent, : and it is a line and a half or two lines in breadth. From thence lit ascends over the thalamus, passes over several of the veins which i come from the corpus striatum, and allows them to be seen on ac- (count of its transparency. It then proceeds backw^ards, gradually < contracts, is curved downwards, and loses itself towards the Corpus ' jeniculatum externum (1533). Anteriorly, it is itself covered by : a small transparent and very dehcate lamina of a yellowish colour : ! this is the Horny Lamina of the Tcenia semicircularis, beneath ' which there is often observed a little serous fluid of the colour of ; amber. 1536. On leaving the corpora striata, the bundles of the olivary I eminences expand into layers like those of the pyramidal bodies ; i like them also, they form convolutions, and it is of these convolu- : tions collectively that the posterior lobes and the vault of the he- 1 mispheres of the cerebrum are composed. Each convolution is not : formed by a single bundle, but consists of two different layers which touch each other, and are but very slightly agglutinated: the ci- : neritious substance invests its exterior. With a little care and patience, the presence of these two layers and their separation in the median line of each convolution can be demonstrated. It is in this that the art of unfolding the brain consists. 1537. We have seen how the cerebral hemispheres are formed by bundles of divergent fibres; but all the parts of one of these hemispheres are made to communicate with the corresponding parts of the other, by a new order of medullary convergent fibres, which come from the gray matter that envelopes the cerebral convolu- tions externally, and constitute different commissures. These com- missures belong both to the upper and lower convolutions ; we now proceed to their examination. 1538. At the bottom of the superior convolutions, the converg- uig filaments are seen forming a sort of tissue with the diverg- ing filaments, uniting into larger ^nd larger filaments, and lining the roof of the lateral ventricles, to emerge by the inner and lower edge of the hemispheres and form the Corpus callosum (maxima commissura cerebri, Soemm. Mesolobe, Chauss.) which is distinctly perceived at the bottom of the great longitudinal fissure. 1539. The Corpus callosum, is therefore a long and broad band of soft and fibrous medullary substance, of a quadrilateral form at first sight, but curved forwards and backwards upon itself. Its di- rection is horizontal, its breadth greater behind than before, its si- tuation such that it is a little nearer the anterior than the posterior