835 OF THE pehitonkum. its lateral regions are named Hypochondria; * the middle region of the middle zone is the Umbilicus, and its lateral region are the Flayiks or Sides, properly so called; the Hypogastriumf is the middle region of the lower zone, of which the Iliac Fossce consti- tute the lateral regions. The part of the hypogastrium comprised in the small pelvis bears the name of Fiibic Region, while the name of Groins or Inguinal Regions is given to the two oblique and angular folds, which exist at the point of union of the anterior wall of the abdomen with the upper part of the thighs, and which extend on each side from the anterior and superior spine of the ileum to the pubes. The groins are essentially formed by the dis- position of the broad muscles of the abdomen. 3073. The peritoneum is itself divided, like the cavity of the abdomen, into three portions, of which the middle forms a kind of cincture placed horizontally between the base of the thorax and the iliac crests, and of which the others, the superior and inferior, re- present segments of an ovoid. 3074. Umbilical Portion of the Peritoneum. It lines the pos- terior part of the Unea alba, closes the posterior orifice of the um- bilicus, and adheres pretty closely, in the circumference of that aperture, to the abdominal aponeurosis. From thence, the peri- toneum directs itself horizontally, to the right and left, behind the broad muscles of the abdomen : in the first direction, it meets the ascending colon ; in the other, the descending colon; and forms around these intestines two folds, named the Lumbar Mesocola (2193, 2195), which serve to attach them to the posterior waU of the abdomen. At the same time, it passes before the kidneys, from which it is separated by a pretty thick layer of cellular tissue ; then, covering the ureters, the spermatic and renal vessels, the vena cava and the aorta, it advances on each side towards the vertebral co- lumn, before which it is reflected from behind forwards, lying upon itself, in order to form the immense fold known by the name of Mesentery (2180). 3075. Hypogastric Portion of the Peritoneum. In this part of its course, the peritoneum descends from the umbilicus towards the pubes, and covers the urachus and the two umbilical arteries which raise it a little, so as to make it form three folds projecting back- wards, confounded at the umbilical ring, and separated inferiorly. It is then applied against the posterior surface of the recti muscles, and arrives at the upper edge of the ossa pvibis, whence it is directed over the summit and posterior region of the bladder. There, it presents differences, according as it is examined, in the male or in the female. In the former, it invests the base of the vesiculoe se- minales, and is reflected over the rectum, forming two semilunar folds, separated by a pretty deep cul-de-sac, and called the Poste- rior Ligaments of the Bladder. Opposite these folds and their " 'Tre, infra ; ^cy^^tf, cartilago, t '^^"to; infra ; yxajn^, ventriculut.