OF THE RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY OF THE HEART. Gi"/ the aorta entirely changes its direction, and becomes vertical. It descends in the posterior mediastinum, upon the anterior and left part of the other dorsal vertebrae, arrives at the diaphragm, passes along with the thoracic duct, between its two crura, by means of an aperture which belongs peculiarly to itself (1279), and enters the abdomen, where it terminates by bifurcating opposite the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebra. From the end of the arch to its division, the aorta assumes the name of descending, and is dis- tinguished into Thoracic Aorta and Abdominal Aorta. 2283. While within the pericardium, the aorta is embraced, on the left and posteriorly, by the pulmonary artery and its right branch. On the right it corresponds to the vena cava superior and lung. Anteriorly, the mediastinum separates it from the sternum. In its circh, this artery is at first immediately applied upon the trachea, a little before the commencement of the bronchi, and af- terwards upon the bodies of the second and third vertebrae. So long as it remtxins in the posterior mediastinum, the aorta lies upon the left part of the vertebral column, to the left of the oesophagus, thoracic duct and vena azygos, covered at first by the origin of the bronchi and afterwards by the pericardium. The pleura covers it on its left side. In the abdomen, it corresponds posteriorly to the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, on the right to the vena cava inferior, on the left and before, to the peritoneum, the stomach, and the small intestine. Of the Arteries which the Aorta gives off at its Origin. OF THE RIGHT COJIONARY AllTEIlY OF THE HEART. {Arteria Coronaria Cordis Dextra). 2284. It arises from the aorta immediately above the free edge of one of the semilunar valves (2268), to the right side of the pul- monary artery, and opposite the base of the right ventricle. It presently proceeds from within outwards, in the groove which se- parates the right auricle from the corresponding ventricle, the aorta, and pulmonary artery. It describes several flexuosities, winds over the base of the heart, arrives at its free edge, changes its di- rection, and gains the groove on the posterior surface of that or- gan. There, it divides into two considerable branches, of which the larger follows the same groove as far as the summit of the heart, while the other directs itself transversely between the left auricle and ventricle, and descends upon the thick edge of the heart to its extremity. 2285. At its commencement, the right coronary artery gives off very slender ramifications to the aorta and right auricle. One of them loses itself upon the commencement of the pulmonary artery