ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. 732 a line extended from the middle of the ham to the posterior part of the inner ankle. 2664. In its two upper thirds, it is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. In its lower third, it is placed along the inner side of the tcndo Achillis, which at first covers it a little, but after- wards leaves it only in relation with the tibial aponeurosis and the skin. Anteriorly, it corresponds to the interosseous space and to the tibialis posticus muscle ; and at its lowest part rests upon the flexor longus communis digitorum, and corresponds to the posterior surface of the tibia. It is accompanied in its course by the poste- rior tibial nerve, which is placed at its outer side. 2665. In its course, the posterior tibial artery furnishes twigs of small size and indeterminate number. It sends very few to the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, frequently none at all. They are almost all distributed laterally to the tibialis posticus and flexor muscles, the skin and the periosteum of the tibia. One of the lat- ter is the Nutritious Artery of'the tibia {art. nutritia magna tibice) the largest of the arteries of that kind; it descends upon the pos- terior surface of the bone in a groove which is observed there, and penetrates into the medullary canal, where it ramifies. Sometimes it comes from the trunk of the popliteal artery itself. 2666. When the posterior tibial artery has arrived under the arch of the calcaneum, and before dividing, it furnishes pretty large twigs to the periosteum of that bone, the adductor muscle of the great toe, the flexor brevis digitorum, the cellular tissue and the skin. Some, which are of smaller size, ascend upon the inner edge of the foot, and anastomose with those of the anterior tibial artery. OF THE INTERNAL PLANTAIl ARTERY. {Art. Plantaris Interna). 2667- Concealed at its commencement by the internal annular ligament of the tarsus, and of much smaller size than the external plantar, it passes horizontally forwards, along the inner part of the sole of the foot, above the abductor poUicis, it then turns a little inwards towards the middle of the foot, passes under the flexor bre- vis poUicis, and ends by anastomosing with the first digital arteries. 2668. At its commencement, this artery gives numerous twigs to the ankle joint, abductor muscle of the great toe, flexor brevis digitorum, cellular tissue and integuments. Some of them, which are of considerable size, ascend above the muscles of the sole of the foot, and lose themselves in the lower part of the articulations of the tarsus. 2669. More anteriorly, the internal plantar artery gives twigs to the same muscles and to the flexor brevis poUicis. One of them, larger than the others, perforates the aponeurosis and is distributed