ORGANIZATION OF THE AURICLE. 563 grccat number of sebaceous follicles dispersed through it, and ad- heres pretty firmly to the cartilage, from which it is separated by » dense cellular tissue ; it, together with a mass of very fine fat, forms the lobule. At the summit and on the inner surface of the tragus, it is furnished with hairs, varying in length and number in differ- ent subjects, which appear destined to prevent the introduction of the small bodies, floating in the atmosphere, into the ear. 1993. Of the Cartilage of the Auricle. It constitutes the basis of the external ear, determining the form of that part by its elas- ticity and consistence. All the eminences and cavities which we have described above are seen upon it, with this difference, that they are much more distinct than when it is covered by the skin- It presents, moreover a slight prominence on the heUx, above the tragus, and, between these two parts, it is intersected by a fissure filled up by a ligament, so that the portion which belongs to the tragus is separated from the rest. It presents a similar fissure^ between the anti-tragus and the united extremities of the helix and anti-hehx, which is in like manner filled with a fibrous substance. Inferiorly, this cartilage is not prolonged in any shape into the lobe; but internally it is continuous with the auditory canal, as we : shall afterwards describe. This cartilage, which is analogous to those of the wings of the : nose, the trachea, &c. has a very delicate tissue, a yellowish white I colour, and a great degree of flexibility. It is covered by a peri- (chondriura, and perforated by several apertures for the passage of 1 blood-vessels. 1994. Of the Ligaments of the Auricle. These ligaments, 'which serve to fix the cartilage to the lateral part of the head, are t three in number, a superior, an anterior, and a posterior. The ^ superior ligament, which is attached behind the concha, to the up- iper part of the convexity which it presents in that direction, termi- I nates by expanding in the epicranial aponeurosis. The anterior {proceeds from the base of the tragus, and from the neighbouring rregion of the helix, to be inserted into the zygomatic process, above t the temporo-maxillary articulation. The posterior goes from the convexity of the concha to be inserted at the base of the mastoid [ process. They are all rathtr cellular than fibrous, and are a little ' intermingled with the muscles of the ear (884, et seq.). 1995. Of the Muscles of the Auricle. They are of two kinds. >Some, which have already been described, (884) are subservient to • the general motions of the part. The others, of which we proceed to speak, are placed, in different points of the auricle, upon its car- tilage. They are always of small size; one or more of them arc 1 sometimes wanting; and sometimes, none at all are met with. 1 They determine the partial motions of approximation and separa- tion between the different regions of the organ. They are com- monly five in number, and designated as follows. 1. Muscle of the Tragus, (M. Tragicus). Pretty broad, very iapparent, more constant than the others, and of a triangular form.