PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. 140 oval cavity, which is articulated with the head of the correspond- ing metacarpal bone, and whose sides have inequalities for the at- tachment of the lateral ligaments. That of the first phalanx of the thumb receives the insertions of the abductor, flexor brevis, and adductor poUicis. Their lower extremity is surmounted by two small condyles separated by a groove, more prolonged before than behind, and articulated with the next phalanx. OF THE SECOND OR MIBDLE PHALANGES. {Plialanges SecundcB, sive Mediae.) 479. In the thumb the middle phalanx is wanting. That of the middle finger is the longest, while the one belonging to the little finger is the shortest and smallest. They have a great resem- blance to the first phalanges, only that there are observed at their middle and fore part two impressions, to which the terminations of the tendons of the flexor sublimis are attached, and that their up- per extremity presents two concave surfaces separated from before backwards by a prominent line, for its articulation with the con- dyles of the metacarpal phalanges, and inequalities, at its posterior part, for the attachment of a portion of the tendon of the extensor communis digitorum. OF THE THIRD Oil EXTREME OR DISTAL PHALANGES. {Phalanges Unguium.) • 480. Each of the fingers, including the thumb, has one. That of the thumb is the largest; the smallest is that of the little finger. Their posterior surface is convex, and covered by the naUs ; the anterior is concave at its middle part, and gives insertion to the tendon of the flexor profundus. The base is marked with two ca- vities similar to those of the upper extremities of the middle pha- langes, and articulated with the condyles of their lower extremity. On the sides are seen the impressions of the lateral ligaments, and posteriorly the attachment of the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. The summit is rounded, compressed, very uneven, tu- bercular, broader thah the body, and connected with the pulp of the fingers. 481. Structure, Articulations, and Development. The first and second phalanges are similar to the metacarpal bones in struc- ture, and are, like them, furnished with a medullary canal; the last phalanges are entirely formed of cellular tissue, covered with a slight layer of compact tissue. The first phalanges are articulated with the metacarpal bones, and with the second or middle ; the second phalanges, with the first and last; the latter, with the sc-