so PASSIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. follow, are less regularly curved, form a part of a larger circle, present a remarkable projection behind, and are twisted upon themselves, so that, when they are placed on a horizontal plane, one of their extremities always rises. 84. The body of the ribs, or their middle part, is flat, thin, con- vex externally, and concave within. Its outer surface presents posteriorly a tuberosity divided into two portions. The inner portion, which is convex and smooth, is articulated to the transverse process of the dorsal vertebras; while the outer gives attachment to the liga- mentum transversarium externum. More anteriorly, there is observ- ed a projecting line, which is named the angle of the ribs. It is ob- lique outwards and downwards, and in the lower ribs is more distant from the tuberosity than in the upper. It is into the angle of the ribs that the tendons of the sacro-lumbalis muscle are inserted. Between this angle and the tuberosity, there occurs a rounded, unequal surface, directed backwards, giving attachment to the lon- gissimus dorsi muscle, and enlarging from above downwards. Anteriorly to the angle, the outer s.urface of the ribs is smooth, and inclines a little upwards. It gives attachment to various mus^ cles, such as the pectoralis minor, the serrati muscles, the external oblique of the abdomen, &c. 85. The inner surface of the body of the ribs is contracted at its middle part and inclined a little downwards, excepting at the angle, where it looks upwards and forwards. It is covered by the pleura. 86. The upper edge is blunt, and gives attachment to the two planes of the intercostal muscles. The loiver edge, which is sharp and thin, and less inclined inwards than the other, is marked with a groove, deeji behind, where it commences near the tuberosity, becoming superficial and internal before, and ceasing about the an- terior third of the rib. It lodges, but not always very accurately, the intercostal vessels and nerves, and gives attachment by its two edges to the muscles of the same name. Close upon the vertebrae one of these edges forms a rather remarkable prominence, named costal. In the first ribs, there is also observed, at the upper edge a su- perficial vascular groove, which, like that in the lower edge, is ob- literated as it advances forward, and which is wanting in the lower ribs. 87. The posterior or vertebral extremity of the ribs, is articulat- ed to the spinal column, by means of a head, which is generally surmounted by two cartilaginous facets, separated by a prominent line to which is attached a ligament; these fiicets correspond to each of the half cavities in the body of the vertebrjE. This head is sup- ported upon a contracted and rounded neck, which rests upon the transverse process, and gives attachment behind to the middle cos- to-transverse ligament. 88. The anterior or sternal extremity, which is thinner but broader than the posterior, and elongated from above downwards,