ORGANS OF GENERATION. Other ccllulo-vascular membrane. A constrictor muscle (1311), to- gether with numerous vessels and nerves, also enters into the com- position of this organ. 3034. Mucous Membrane. It is evidently the continuation of that of the vulva, and is equally continuous with the mucous membrane of the utei-us. Inferiorly it is of a bright red colour, becomes whitish or grayish above, and posteriorly often presents irregular bluish or livid spots. Between the rugosities, of which we have spoken above, it is perforated with a great number of pores, which are the orifices of its mucous follicles, or rather of its lacunae. Its thickness diminishes in proportion as it retires from the vulva towards the neck of the uterus ; in some places it has a nearly cartilaginous consistence ; in its whole extent, it is invested by a very distinct epidermis. 3035. Erectile Spongy Tissue. It forms around the inferior part of the vagina a layer about an inch broad and two or three lines thick. It has a grayish colour and a dense and compact tex- ture. No regularly disposed fibres are distinguished in it. Supe- riorly, it becomes very thin, but nevertheless ascends as far as the uterus, and seems to be continuous with the proper tissue of that organ. It is commonly designated by the name of Plexus retiformis. 3036. The vagina receives an artery from the hypogastric (2587-) Its nerves arc furnished by the sciatic plexus (1832). OF THE UTERUS OR WOMB AND ITS APPENDAGES. OF THE UTERUS, GENERAL DISPOSITIOK. 3037. The uterus {matrix), which is destined to lodge the foe- tus from the period of conception to that of birth, is a hollow, sym- metrical organ, pyriform or rather of the shape of a truncated cone, placed in the middle of the pelvis, between the bladder and rectum, above the vagina and beneath the inferior convolutions of the small intestine. It is flattened from before backwards, and is nearly an inch in thickness. From being about two inches broad in its highest region, it contracts towards the vagina, and terminates by a narrow elongated portion which is called the neck, to distinguish it from the rest of the organ, which is named its body. 3038. Body of the Uterus. It is somewhat less than two inches in length. Its two surfaces are convex, the anterior however a lit- tle more so than the posterior, and invested by the peritoneum : the former is in contact with the bladder, and the latter with the rectum. Its lateral edges are convex, directed downwards, for- wards and inwards ; they correspond to the interval of the two laminee which compose the broad ligaments. Its upper edge, (fun-