ORGANIZATION OF THE TONGUE. 587 2072. Upper Surface or Back of the Tongue. Entirely free, imejirly flat, and covered by the mucovis membrane of the mouth, it iappears as if divided into two lateral portions by a slight and super- : fichil groove, at the posterior extremity of which, near the base of tthe tongue, there occurs a considerable depression, varying in form, \ which is named the Foramen ccecum of the tongue. In some sub- j jects, this hole is wanting; but in others, it has a depth of several I lines. It is in its interior that the excretory ducts of the mucous tfoUicles placed in its vicinity terminate. From its sides proceed [forwards two lines, varying in form, but always diverging so as to r represent a V with its summit directed backwards. These two lines are formed by mucous follicles. The rest of this surface i presents a great number of papillae, the structure of which we shall L expose. 2073. Inferior Surface of the Tongue. It is free and invest- ted by the mucous membrane of the mouth in its anterior third and ton the sides; but at the middle and posteriorly, it is connected iwith the lower maxillary bone by means of the genio-glossi mus- i cles, and to the hyoid bone by means of the hyo-glossi. There is I observed at its middle part a longitudinal groove which separates t two oblong prominences, formed by the lingual muscles. 2074. Edges of the Tongue. Thick behind and thin before, t they are rounded in their whole extent, and present narrow and 1 vertical striae above, which are parallel to each other, and continu- ( ous with the papUlae of the dorsal surface. 2075. The Point of the Tongue, or its anterior extremity, is I rounded and free. Its breadth varies much in different indivi- I duals. The Base of the Tongue, or its posterior extremity, is I continuous with the epiglottis and pillars of the velum palati. '. From being very thick at the level of the foramen ccecum, it be- I comes gradually thinner as it approaches the hyoid bone, so that I the organ is thinner than anywhere else where it is attached to that I bone. ORGANIZATION OF THE TONGUE. 2076. Fleshy or Muscular Portion. It forms the gi-eater part ' of the organ, and is composed of fibres of the stylo-glossi, hyo- : glossi and genio-glossi muscles, which we have already described, ■ and of those of the Ungual muscles (1015, et seq). All these muscles have their fleshy fibres interlaced in an inextricable manner, and 1 form at the upper region of the tongue a layer in which it is impos- ! sible to discern them, and in which there is interspersed a multitude I of small globules filled with an almost fluid fat, placed very close • upon each other, which gives them a flattened form, and so much the less red the nearer they approach to the back of the organ. On the sides of the tongue, however, there is still pretty easily distin- : guished an inferior longitudinal muscular plane, formed by the lin-