OF THE CEKEBllUM. 409 sometimes very small; in general, they are of small size in foetuses and newly-born children. The anfractuosities are equally variable I in t. leir disposition ; they are always narrow, of about an inch in dept 1, sometimes very long, and sometimes very short. They are 1 hnefl by prolongations of the pia mater. Their direction is trans- > verse, longitudinal, or oblique; some of them are simple, but the . greater number present subdivisions in their course, and are con- ; tinuous with the neighbouring ones, while there are some which ] proceed towards the inferior surface of the brain. In these an- 1 fractuosities, there are deep-seated secondary prominences, which, ; arising from one convolution, are inserted into corresponding de- ] pressions formed upon the contiguous convolution. The convolu- I tions and anfractuosities of the brain do not, as Bichat remarks, ; at all correspond to the eminences and cavities of the inner surface I of the skull. 1506. Lower Surface of the Brain. This surface of the brain has been regarded by most anatomists as formed of several distinct regions, which they have named Lobes, and which occupy the base of the hemispheres. These lobes are three in number on each side: the anterior rests upon the orbitar arch ; the second or middle forms a considerable prominence below the level of the first, and fills the middle and lateral fosssE of the base of the cranium; the third, or posterior, is supported by the tentorium cerebelli, and presents a slight excavation. The base of the cerebrum presents first, at its fore part and in the median line, a fissure, which is the termination of the longitudinal fissure that separates the hemi- spheres. This fissure is only filled by the cerebral falx in its an- terior third, its two posterior thirds being occupied by the vascu- lar prolongations which pass from one hemisphere to the other; it is limited above by the anterior part of the corpus callosum, and separates from each other the two anterior lobes, whose plain, nearly triangular, and anteriorly contracted surfaces are observed on its sides. On each of these lobes there is a very deep rectili- near groove, which seems to be an anfractuosity separating two convolutions ; it is directed from behind forwards, and a little from without inwards, and lodges the trunk of the olfactory nerve. On the outside of this groove, are some anfractuosities and con- volutions less distinct than those of the upper region, and at its back part there is observed, on each side, between the anterior and middle lobes, a considerable angular transverse depression, which lodges one of the principal branches of the internal carotid artery, and is prolonged obliquely upwards and backwards upon the con- vex surface of the hemisphere, where it is lost in the neighbouring anfractuosities : this is the Fissura Sylvii, which corresponds to the posterior edge of the process of Ingrassias (116), and is con- tinued inwards and backwards, nearly at a right angle, into a longi- tudinal fissure, limited externally by the middle lobe, internally by t ic optic nerves and the crura cerebri. This second fissure allows l»e pia mater to puss into the lateral ventricles of the brain; but