153 OF THE DONES OF THE TARSUS. riovly to the tendo Achillis; in the middle a broad convex articu- lar surface, looking forwards and outwards, and articulated to the astragalus; anteriorly and to the outside, a rough uneven depres- sion for the attachment of ligaments ; anteriorly, and to the inside, another articular surface, narrow, oblong, and slightly concave, which is also articidated with the astragalus, and which is separat- ed from the preceding by a deep rough groove, into which is in- serted a ligament proceeding toward the astragalus. This facet is formed upon a projection which the bone here makes, and which is uneven on the inside to give attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. It is named the Small Process of the Calcanenm. Its loiver surface, which is much narrower than the upper, pre- sents posteriorly two tuberosities, the inner of which is the larger. These tuberosities aflFord insertion to the superficial muscles of the sole of the foot, and are separated by a depression into which a strong ligament is fixed. Anteriorly, this surface contracts still more, and is terminated by a rough tubercle into which is inserted the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The aiiterior surface of the calcaneum is the smallest of all: it is concave from above downwards, slightly convex from without inwards, covered with cartilage, and articulated to the os cuboides. The portion of the bone which sustains this surface is contracted, and has received the name of the Great Process of the Calca- neum. Its posterior surface, which is convex in all directions, presents inequahties at its lower part, where the tendo Achillis is inserted. Its upper part is smooth and pohshed, and is separated from the tendon just nlentioned by a synovial bursa. Its outer surface, which is broader behind than before, is markr ed anteriorly with two superficial grooves, directed downwards and forwards, for the passage of the tendons of the lateral peronei muscles. It Hes, in a great part of its extent, immediately under the skin, and presents anteriorly, on the great process, inequahties to which the extensor brevis digitorum pedis is attached. The two grooves are separated by a spine into which the external lateral lio-a- ment of the ankle joint is inserted. Lastly, its inner surface, which is broad, concave from before backwards, slightly convex from above downwards at its posterior part, forms an arch imder which sUde the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum pedis, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus poUicis pedis. The tendon of the latter muscle passes in a very distinct groove, which occupies the upper part of this surface, and which is tormed under the small process. The plantar vessels and nerves are also lodged m this cavity. Posteriorly and below, it presents inequalities to which the accessory muscle of the flexor lono-us di gitorum is attached. °