099 OF THE CHEEKS. , OF THE CHEEKS. 2119. The Cheeks {Gence) form the lateral walls of the mouth. lExternally they have no precise limits ; above, they are continuous vwith the prominence of the cheek and the lower eyelid; below, tthey descend as far as the base of the jaw; and, anteriorly, termi- mate at the wings of the nose and the parotid gland. Internally tthey are distmctly hmited, above and below, by replications of the rmucous membrane of the mouth, which leaves them to gain the tmaxillary bones; posteriorly, by the anterior piUars of the velum ipalati; and, anteriorly, by the commissure of the lips. Their thickness varies much according to the condition of the [individual. Pretty frequently, they form a projection outwards, jand sometimes they seem to fall in towards the mouth. 2120. Skin of the Cheeks. The skin which covers the cheeks Lis very delicate, and, in the adult male, is covered with a great quantity of hair, which partly constitutes the Beard. We ob- •^serve, however, that this hair does not exist in its middle region, >sio that there it is perfectly bare. It also appears in this place to 0 contain a great quantity of blood-vessels, and is generally more L coloured than elsewhere. It is commonly separated from the buc- > cinator muscle by a great quantity of fat, which even frequently forms an isolated mass. . In old people and valetudinarians, the cheeks are frequently ffurrowed with wrinkles, which do not exist in young subjects or i;persons in good health. 2121. Muscular Layer. It is composed of the buccinator, rmasseter, zygomaticus major and minor, and a portion of the pla- ttysma myoides. Between the zygomaticus major and the buccin- ;iator, there also occurs a great quantity of soft and yellowish fat, ccontained in a very loose cellular tissue. 2122. Mucous Layer. Here the common membrane is thin- rner than in the other parts of the mouth. It covers a great num- 1 ber of follicles, which are commonly named Buccal Glands. They liliave the greatest resemblance to those of the hps (2109)- Their norifices are irregularly dispersed over the inner surface of the cchcek, and easily distinguished from that of the parotid duct, 'which is marked by a particular prominence at the middle of this region, nccir the third molar tooth of the upper jaw. At the back part, between the massetcr and buccinator muscles, are two small bodies formed of the assemblage of several of these follicles. They are designated by the name of Molar Glands, because the orifice of their excretory duct is situated opposite the ..last molar tooth. 2123. The arteries of the cheeks come from the facial, traus- »versalis faciei, buccal, upper alveolar, and infra-orbitar arteries. I The veins correspond to them, and discharge themselves into the two jugular veins. Their lymphatic vessels go to the ganglia of