ARTICULATIONS OF THE INFEKIOR EXTREMITIES. 229 the other, under the form of a quadrilateral fasciculus, and is cover- ed by the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum. ARTICULATION OF THE EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM BONE WITH THE CirBOID. 760. The outer side of the external cuneiform bone is articulat- ed to the OS cuboides by a cartilaginous surface, covered by a sy- novial capsule. A dorsal and plantar ligament are the only bonds of this articulation. The first, which is thin and oblique, is inserted into the upper part of the neighbouring edge of the two bones; its fibres are separated by vascular intervals. The other, which is much thicker, is seen at the lower surface of the tarsus; attached to the inner part of the os cuboides, and passes over to the plantar surface of the external cuneiform bone ; its fibres are transverse. There also occurs between these two bones, where they are not in immediate contact, a fibrous and cellular tissue, analogous to most of the interosseous ligaments. AIITICCLATIONS OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES WITfiE THE SCAPHOID. 761. The scaphoid bone is articulated by means of its anterior surface with the three cuneiform bones, forming an arthrodia. The surfaces by which these bones are in contact are covered with cartilages, continuous with those of the articulations of the cunei- form bones with each other. A synovial membrane and six liga- ments are observed here. 762. Dorsal Ligaments, (Ligamenta dorsalia). Of these there are three, an internal, a middle, and an external; their insertions into the scaphoid bone are confounded with each other. They take place at the upper part of that bone, whence they proceed in a di- verging manner to the corresponding part of each of the cuneiform bones. The first, which is divided into two fasciculi, is thicker be- low than above, and is strengthened by the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The others are not so broad or strong. 763. Plantar Ligaments, {Ligamenta plantaria). These ar^ also three in number, and are less distinct than the precedino-. Their fibres, which are parallel and close, are united into a singTe fasciculus beneath the scaphoid bone, but separate on arriving^at each of the cuneiform bones. Some of the fibres of these ligaments come from the termination of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. In^. Synovial Membrane. It is common to the articulations ot the cuneiform bones with each other, and with the scaphoid oone. It lines the ligaments by which they are connected toge- tner, and covers their investing cartilages. 4