PASSIVl-: ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. sal process of the maxillary bones, which is also commonly the re- sult of a mere apposition of surface, although in many cases one of the surfaces presents small straight projections, which are received into cavities formed in the other (233). 324. The denticulations at the top of the nose are continued la- terally over the summit of the nasal processes of the upper maxil- lary bones, and seem intersected by the lower and lateral parts of the margin of the orbits, which present below, the articulation of the malar tuberosity with the cheek bone, and outwards and a Ht- tle upwards, inequaUties which occupy the upper angle of the lat- ter bone. Behind, and a little below these margins on each side, are the malar holes and the insertions of the large and small zygo- matic muscles into the cheek bone, which, a little to the inside, forms a suture with the maxillary bone. This suture limits the canine fossa above, and terminates at the concave ridae which de- scends from the malar tuberosity, and which limits that fossa be- hind. Above the canine fossa is the infra-orbitar hole, and below, the insertion of the canine muscle. 325. Between the two canine fossae and under the nose, is ob- served the anterior orifice of tJie nam/, fosnce, (apertura iiarium anterior) which is heartshaped, broader below than above, and formed by the nasal and upper maxillary bones. It is sharp and uneven in its upper part, and rounded below; above and in the middle, it presents a prominence formed by the union of the nasal bones, and limited laterally by the small notches which gives pass- age to the branches of the internal nasal nerve. Below, it presents the anterior oiasal spine, which surmounts a vertical suture, with- out denticulations, on the sides of which are the myrtiform fossae, which is produced by the articulation of the upper maxillary bones with each other. This suture forms a right angle with the upper alveolar border, under which are seen the aperture of the mouth and the two dentar arches. 326. These two arches, which are formed by the teeth arranged in continuous series, are, as has already been said (274) most com- monly of a parabolic form; sometimes their curve belongs to the half of an ellipse or oval; and occasionally they form angles at the part where the incisors meet the canine teeth. The upper arch is a little wider than the under, on which account, the latter appears embraced by it, when the jaws are brought together. 327. The free edge of these arches is undulated in such a man- ner, that in the upper jaw it descends slightly from the first inci- sor to the second molar on each side, and again ascends, which renders it necessary for the last teeth of the lower jaw to be situ- ated higher in order to reach the corresponding teeth in the upper jaw. This arrangement is particularly evident in the heads of women. This edge is simple at its fore part, but posteriorly pre- ; sents two lips, on account of the greater breadth of the molar teeth. ' The outer lip is sharper in the upper jaw than the inner; but the i reverse is observed in the lower jaw. ;