ORGANS OF SECRETION. 790 depends upon the circumstance, that the former of these vessels is accompanied by a cellular sheath which prevents it from adhering to the parenchyma of the liver, while the others being destitute of that particular envelope, are intimately iinited to it. 2902. If the tissue of the liver be torn in place of being cut, it then appears uneven and formed of an immense quantity of round- ish grains or solid polygons, in which end the extreme ramifications of the vena portas and hepatic artery, and whence proceed the ra- dicles of the biliary ducts, hepatic veins, and deep seated lympha- tics. These granulations are about the size of a millet seed, of a soft consistence and dark red colour, and appear to be united to each other by cellular tissue, which does not form them into lo- bules as in the salivary glands and the pancreas. The most mi- nute researches have disclosed nothing further with respect to their intimate structure. Some anatomists, Ruysch in particular, have supposed them to be formed by the interlacing of the different vessels of the liver, others, as Malpighi, have supposed them to be vesicles. Excretory A<pparidus of the Bile, 2903. This apparatus consists of the hepatic duct, which im- mediately issues from the liver, and after passing over a certain space, unites witli the cystic duct, which ends in the gall-bladder, and of the ductus communis choledochus, which results from this junction, and terminates in the duodenum. HEPATIC DUCT. 2904. It takes its origin by a great number of very slender radicles in the granulations of the liver. These radicles successive- ly unite into larger branches which accompany the divisions of the vena portas and hepatic artery. These branches are then united into two principal trunks, one for the left lobe, the other for the right, which issue by the transverse groove of the inferior surface of the liver, converge towards each other, closely connected with the corresponding branches of the vena portas, and end at a right angle. At the very point of union, some small branches of inde- terminate number and variable size join them. In this manner is formed the hepatic duct, which is about an inch and a half in length and about a line and a half in diameter, and descends obhquely inwards between the laminae of the gastro- hepatic omentum, and in the midst of a considerable quantity of adipose cellular tissue, before the vena porttB, behmd the right branch of the hepatic artery, to the left of the neck of the gall- bladder and cystic duct.