MUSCLES OF THE NECK. sometimes divided into several portions, arises by very distinct aponeurotic fibres, from the inner and upper part of the clavicle, over an extent which varies in different subjects. These two por- tions of the muscle follow different directions: the first ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and covers the second, which is nearly vertical. After thus crossing each other they remain for some time distinct, but are at length incorporated, so as to form a single bundle, terminated by a broad and thin aponeurosis posteriorly, where it is attached to the outside ef the upper curved Une of the occipital bone, narrow and thicker anteriorly, where it is inserted into the mastoid process. At the union of its two por- tions, or a little above it, the sterno-mastoideus is traversed oblique- ly by the spinal accessory nerve. 987. Its outer surface is covered nearly in its whole extent by the platysma myoides, excepting at its upper part, where it lies under the skin and parotid gland. Between it and the platysma myoides are observed the external jugular vein, and some nervous filaments of the superficial cervical plexus. Its inner surface is applied inferiorly upon the sterno-clavicular articulation, the ster- no-thyroideus, sterno-hyoideus, and omo-hyoideus muscles, the in- ternal jugular vein, the trunk of the carotid artery, the pneumo- gastric nerve, the cervical plexus, and the sympathetic nerve. Above, it corresponds to the scalenus, levator anguli scapulie, sple- nius, and digastricus muscles, and to the spinal accessory nerve. Its anterior edge is very close below to the muscle of the opposite side, but very widely separated above. Its upper and lower parts are pretty thick, but in the middle it is thin. The posterior edge is thin, and a little concave. 988. This muscle carries the head forwards, inclines it to its own side, and makes it perform a rotatory motion which turns the face to the opposite side. When the two muscles act together, the head is bent directly, and in this case the thorax requires to be pre- viously fixed below by the recti abdominis. 989. The head being slightly inclined backwards, and face turned to the opposite side, the dissector proceeds to expose this muscle by cutting through the platysma myoides, and other parts which cover its outer surface, in the direction of its fibres, and re- versing them. This muscle being exposed and examined, may be cut through at the middle, and the upper portion thrown up- wards, the lower downwards. When this and the platysma my- oides are removed, no other dissection is required for the following muscles but the removal of cellular substance from their sur- faces. OF THE OMO-HYOIDEUS. 990. The Omo-hyoideus (Scapula hi/oideiis), is a long, slender, flattened, and very narrow muscle, situated obliquely on the sides