MUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. 1 9O6. Its inferior surface is separated from the floor of the orbit by a quantity of adipose tissue, and covered anteriorly by the conjunctiva. The upper surface is in connexion with the optic nerve, a branch of the third pair of nerves, and the eye. 967. It is the antagonist of the rectus superior, drawing the eye downwards. OF THE llECTUS INTERNUS. (Adductor Oculi). 968. It resembles the two preceding muscles and the following, and occupies the internal region of the orbit. Posteriorly, it is at- tached to the small tendon of which we have spoken, and a little to the margin of the optic hole, thence it proceeds horizontally for- wards to the inner side of the eye. Its internal surface corre- sponds to the orbit; the external to the optic nerve. 969. It carries the eye inwards. OF THE RECTUS EXTERNUS. (Abductor Oculi). 970. It is situated at the outer side of the orbit, and arises from the tendon already mentioned, and outer part of the cir- cumference of the optic hole, by short aponeuroses. Between these two origins pass the third pair of nerves, sixth pair, and nasal branch of the ophthalmic. The muscle then pro- ceeds horizontally outwards and forwards, to the outer part of the eye. It corresponds by its external surface to the perios- teum of the orbit, and to the lachrymal gland; by its internal surface to the optic nerve and sixth pair, as well as to the lenticu- lar ganglion. 971- Its action is to draw the eye outwards. 972. There results from the description of the four recti muscles of the eye, that they have all nearly the same form, and agree in possessing the following characters in common ; 1st, three of them, the inferior, outer, and inner, arise posteriorly from the same small tendon which is attached near the pituitary fossa, at the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, and which, after travers- ing the latter, divides into three portions, distributed one to each of them; 2dly, their fleshy fibres, which are at first parallel, after- ■wards diverge. 9/3. Besides their position and relations to the surround- ing parts, the recti are distinguished from each other by various characters. The external is longer, and the internal shorter, than the others. The upper is the thinnest, the inner the thickest.