OF THE INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NRIIVE. 493 INFUA-SCAPUI-AK BRANCHES. 1754. They arise at variable points of the brachial plexus, and sometimes from the circumflex nerve, which itself comes off' from it, either separately or by a common trunk. Their number is as sub- ject to variation as their origin; but in general there are three of them. The Jirst, which is the largest, comes from the posterior part of the plexus, and passes behind the axillary vessels toj descend be- tween the serratns magnus and subscapularis, traverse the teres major and lose itself by two or three twigs on the anterior surface of the latissimus dorsi. The second, which is the smallest of the three, also issues from the plexus behind, throws itself upon the inner surface of the sub- scapularis muscle, and is distributed to it. The third has sometimes a common origin with the first, and also frequently comes from the circumflex nerve. It descends ob- liquely along the subscapularis muscle, and ramifies in its substance as well as in the teres major and teres minor. I OF THE INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NEllVE. I {Nervus Ctitaneus Medius.) l']55. It is the smallest of the six branches which terminate the brachial plexus, from the inner and lower part of which it comes, being furnished almost exclusively by the first dorsal nerve and the last cervical. It descends vertically under the brachial aponeuro- sis, along the inner surface of the arm, near the basilic vein, which is sometimes placed before, sometimes behind it, and sometimes on its sides. At first deeply concealed in the cellular tissue of the axilla, between the median and ulnar nerves, it becomes more su- perficial as it descends; but it only gives off" some very slender filaments which lose themselves in the cellular tissue and skin, and of which one directs itself towards the inner condyle. It is near this tuberosity, and sometimes sooner, that the trunk of the nerve Itself divides into two branches, an external, and an internal. 1756. Ewternal Branch. Smaller than the other, it runs along the edge of the biceps muscle, almost immediately pierces the brachial aponeurosis, and directs itself obliquely downwards and forwards, placed above the median nerve, which it accompa- nies as far as the lower part of the biceps muscle. Then travers- ing the middle of the bend of the arm, it remains on the surface of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm until near the wrist, where it ter- minates by twigs which are distributed to the integuments, and which cannot be traced beyond the annular ligament of thfc wrist (n08). In passing over the forc-arra, it gives off" on cither side