370 ACTIVE ORGANS OF LOCOMOTION. VSGG. This muscle draws the thigh outwards. By its anterio part, it rotates the femur inwards, imd in the contrary directioi by the posterior part. It also acts in standing, and in progresi sion. OF THK GLUTEUS MINIMUS. 1367- The Glutcxus minmms is smaller than the medius, and situated under it. It is a flat muscle, of a triangular form, with radiating fibres. It arises, by short aponeuroses, from the inferioi curved line of the os innominatum, and from the anterior region oi its crest, beneath the glutsEus medius, as well as from the whol^ space comprised between these parts and the edge of the cotyloid cavity. Proceeding from thence, the fleshy fibres converge, and' descend, the middle ones, vertically, the anterior and posterior, obliquely. The middle and posterior go to the inner siirface of a broad aponeurosis, whose outer part receives some bundles from the glutiEus medius, which is accompanied by the anterior fibres of the glutseus minimus as far as the great trochanter, where it is con- A'crted into a strong and thick tendon, which embraces the anterior region of that eminence. A small synovial capsule, in most cases, favours its motions, 1368. The outer surface of this muscle, which is inclined back- wards, is covered by the preceding in the greater part of its extent, and a little, posteriorly, by the pyriformis. The mwer aurface covers the os innominatum, the fibrous capsule of the hip joint, and the curved tendon of the rectus femoris. Its upjjer edge is convex ; the anterior is a little connected below with the glutseus medius ; the posterior is covered above by the pyriformis, to which it is parallel below. 1369. Its uses are the same as those of the preceding muscle. OF THE PYRIFOKMTS. 1370. This muscle is of an elongated conical form, flattened from before backwards. It is situated in the pelvis, and at the up- per and back part of the thigh, and arises by digitations fi-om the anterior surface of the sacrum, to the outside of the anterior sacral holes, and in the spaces by which they are separated from' each other ; it is also attached to the lower part of the great sacro-' sciatic ligament (628), and to the upper and back part of the ileum. " From thence it proceeds outwards and a little downwards, con-' tracts, issues from the pelvis by the sciatic notch (408), runs' along the glutaeus medius and glutasus minimus, and terminates by a tendon, which is at first broad and concealed by the fleshy fibres, appears sooner before than behind, and is separated from the tendon of the glutaeus medius by a synovial bursa (1365), it