OF THE INCISORS. 77 which form the midtUc pair, are surpassed in size and extent by the lateral, and have their axis vertical, while in the latter it is in- cUned upwards and outwards. The free edge of their crown is cut obUquely on the posterior surface : it is straight and horizon- tal in the middle ones, a little oblique in the lateral, but in such a manner that the more prominent angle is next the canine tooth. Their root is much more compressed and more deeply furrowed than that of the upper, and it is also longer. OF THE CANINE TEETH. 261. The Canine Teeth, {Denies Canini, Cuspidati, Lani- arii), are four in number, two in each jaw; they are situated la- terally of the incisors, and present fewer differences among them- selves than they. Their Croum is conical, very convex anteriorly, a little concave and uneven posteriorly, terminated by a blunt sum- mit, which is pretty frequently surmounted by a sort of small py- ramidal tubercle rising above the level of the other teeth. Their Root is single like that of the incisors, but much longer and thick- er ; it is also, like theirs, compressed and furrowed on the sides. Not unfrequently it projects before the alveolus, beyond the para- bohc curve of the dentar arch, especially in the lower jaw, where it sometimes appears partly bifurcated. The layer of vitreous mat- ter which invests its crown is thicker than in the incisors, and in the same manner describes two slight curves, before and behind, to- ward the neck. The Upper Canine Teeth are the longest in the jaws, and for this reason, are vulgarly denominated Eye-teetli {Occulani Denies). The Lower Canine Teeth are situated a little more anteriorly, so that their summit corresponds to the space between the upper canine tooth and the neighbouring incisor. OF THE MOLAU TEETH. 262. The Molar Teeth, (Dentes Molares), are in number twen- ty, tliere being ten in each jaw ; very frequently, however, there are only sixteen or eighteen, and in some very rare cases twenty- two or twenty-four are observed. They occupy the farther part of each alveolar arch, and present a Crown which is broader than It is high, uneven and tuberculated, and a Root more or less divided. 2G3. The Superior molar teeth are generally stronger than the lower; their axis is incUned outwards, and is sometimes vertical. In those of the lower jaw, it is directed inwards. 264. The first two pairs of molar teeth in each jaw (Bicuspides), are smaller than the canine tooth which they f()lli)w. Their crown IS irregularly cylindrical, llattcncd before and l)chind, where it is