763 OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. posterior surface of the leg ascend around the tendo Acliillis, anas- tomosing inwards and outwards with the preceding. They then envelope the calf, and near the ham unite with the others after bending inwards. 2793. Thus united, all the superficial ahsorbents of the leg as- cend along the inner and anterior side of the thigh, approaching each other, and continually anastomosing, and at length terminate in the superficial inguinal ganglia. But, in their course, they are accompanied and augmented by other vessels of the same nature, arising particularly upon the fore part of the thigh, and by others, in small number, which come from its posterior region. 2794. All these vessels are so numerous, and their anastomoses «o frequent, that they form a net-work upon the foot, leg and thigh, which completely surrounds these parts. They are immers- ed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE INFEPaOR EXTREMITIES. 2795. They follow the course of the blood-vessels, and may be distinguished into four kinds, according as they accompany the ex- ternal saphena vein, or the anterior and posterior tibial and fibu- lar arteries. 2796. Those which accompany the external saphena vein are two or three in number. They originate by a number of radicles on the outer part of the back and sole of the foot. All these radi- cles unite towards the outer malleolus, under the aponeurosis, and the two vessels which result from this union ascend along the outer edge of the tendo Achillis, where they receive some twigs from that tendon. They then place themselves between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, which also affords them several branches, and arrive in the ham, where they successively divide in the popliteal ganglia, to unite partly with the other deep ab- sorbents, and partly with the superficial, in the latter case perfora- ting the aponeurosis. 2797" Anterior Tibial Lymphatics. These are also two in number. One of them has its roots in the sole of the foot, around the plantar arch ; the other originates upon the outer part of the back of the foot. The first ascends upon the back of the foot along the dorsal artery (2650), between the first two metatarsal bones, whence it passes between the anterior muscles of the leg, to terminate in a small ganglion near the upper extremity of the tibia, or to pass through the superior aperture of the interosseus hgament at the posterior surface of the leg, where it unites with the other deep vessels. The second follows the same course as far as the middle third of the leg, where it traverses the interosseous ligament to unite with the fibular absorbents. 2798. Posterior Tibial Lymphatics. They originate deeply in