MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 335 thin, and terminate by flattened tendons, which proceed behind the first phalanx, becoming broader, arc confounded with the tendons of the corresponding interossei, and go, along with them, to be lost in the outer edge of the tendons of the extensor digitorum commu- nis. These tendons vary much in their disposition; they fre- quently divide into two, and one of their branches is attached to the phalanx. 1235. Their anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the -flexor digitorum subhmis, by the palmar aponeurosis, and by the .collateral vessels and nerves of the fingers. The posterior surface hes upon the interossei, the inferior transverse metacarpal ligament, and the phalanges. 1236. They bend the fingers upon the metacarpus, carry them a httle outwards, and fix the tendons of the extensor communis di- gitorum. V OF THE INTEROSSEI. 1237. These muscles are seven in number; four are situated on the back of the hand, and only three in the palm. OF THE INTEIINAI^ OR PALMAtt INTEROSSEI. 1238. The first palmar interosseous muscle is thin and pris- matic, it arises from the two upper thirds of the inner side of the second metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments by which that bone is connected with the trapezoides. It is terminated by a ten- don, appearing sooner internally than externally, which is inserted into the inside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx of the in- dex, and to the extensor tendon of the same finger. Its anterior surface is covered by the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis. The inner corresponds to the second dorsal interosseous muscle. It carries the fore-finger inwards. 1239. The second palmar interosseous muscle, which is also pris- matic, arises from the two anterior thirds of the outer surface of the fourth metacarpal bone, and from the ligaments by which it is con- nected with the neighbouring bones. Its inferior tendon is at- tached to the outer side of the first phalanx, and of the extensor tendon of the ring finger. Its anterior surface is covered by the lumbricales and the tendons of the flexor profundus. It carries the ring finger outwards. 1240. The third palmar interosseous muscle is of the same lorm as the others, and is inserted into the two anterior thirds of the outer surface of the fifth metacarpal bone, and into the liga- ments by which it is connected with the os unciforme. Its tendon IS attached to the outside of the upper extremity of the first phalanx, «nd of the extensor tendon of the little finger. Its anterior sur~