STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBELLUM IN PARTICULAR. 429 icdiately behind the anterior pilUirs of the fornix, and of the of the optic nerve. It is naturally free and apparent over an tent of about six lines at its middle part; but, on each side, it iks deeply into the substance of the hemispheres, curving back- irds in a sensible manner, and, according to Chaussier, reaches B corpus callosum and crura of the brain. These lateral por- mis are a little flattened, and more voluminous than the middle I Posteriorly and above, the third ventricle is limited by the Pos- ■Hor Cmnmismre, which is thicker and shorter than the anterior, tit of the same cyhndrical form and transverse direction; its fi- Dous appearance is more distinct; by its posterior edge it is con- •ifuous to the tubercula quadrigemina. Beneath it, is the poste- m aperture of the ventricle, a sort of small narrow slit, fur- ;khed on the edges with a very thin white band. It is the an- :irior aperture of the Aqueduct of Sylvius, (iter a tertio ad quar- inn ventriculum), a cylindrical canal, formed obliquely in the sub- lance of the cerebral protuberance, beneath the tubercula quadri- Rmina, and opening posteriorly into the fourth ventricle, under o.e valvule of Vieussens. Its surface presents, inferiorly, a groove ihich is continuous with the Calamus Scriptorius, and, on each Ide, one or two small inequalities. STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBELLUM IN FAIITICULAK. 1551. The bundles of convergent and divergent fibres are far D'om being so well demonstrated in the cerebellum as in the cere- irum. We cannot here adopt the method followed in the preced- ag article, but shall describe all the white substance of this organ ■ 3 formed by fibres of the second kind. 1552. We have already said (1512) that the anterior surface of •the cerebral protuberance is formed by a pretty thick layer of white latter, manifestly fibrous, to which the name of Pons Varolii or innular Protuberance is given. This layer unites its fibres pos- sriorly and on each side into two thick divergent bundles, much lore separated from each other than the crura of the brain, and Jminishing in size in proportion as they proceed from the cerebral •rotuberance towards the cerebellum. These are the Crura of the • cerebellum: each of them is convex and rounded externally. The restiform processes (1516) form on each side a sort of pro- ongation, {processus ad Medullam Spinaleni) which, from the ; wsterior surface of the medulla oblongata, ascends upon the inner ide of the crus of the cerebellum, and unites with it. Lastly, the white lamina which covers the tubercula quadrigemi- I'l also appears to be gathered posteriorly into two longitudinal ; 'undlcs, {Processus ad testes) united together by the valvula , I' leusscnu, and applied upon the upper and inner parts of the 1 aine crus. .