566 ORGANS OF SENSATION. exhales a dense smoke of an ammoniacal and slightly aromatic smell. The charcoal which forms the residuum is in too small qviantity to be analyzed. M. Vauquelin thinks that three sub- stances form the base of the cerumen : a fat oil, an albuminous animal mucilage, and a colouring matter. 2003. The arteries of the external ear are furnished by the posterior auricular, temporal, and stylo-mastoid branches. Its veins exactly correspond to the arteries. The lymphatics go to the ganglia situated behind the ramus of the jaw, and upon the outer surface of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. Its nerves are furnished by the superficial temporal (I67O), and posterior auricular (I678) nerves, the temporal twigs of the facial (1683), and the mastoid (1743), and auricular (1744) twigs of the cervical plexus. OF THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM.* OF THE CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM, HAVING ITS SOFT PARTS REMOVED. 2004. The Tympanum is a cavity of an irregular form, difficult to be described, situated in the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, between the meatus auditorius externus and the inner ear, properly so called, or labyrinth, above the glenoid fossa, before the mastoid process and its cells, and behind the Eustachian tube. Its breadth is but small; but it is liable to vary on account of the motions to which the membrana tympani is subject. It is always larger above than below. Its antero-posterior diameter is a little greater than the vertical diameter. A mucous membrane lines it over its whole extent, and it communicates with the exter- nal air by means of the Eustachian tube, placed between it and the pharynx. Six walls are distinguished in the tympanum. 2005. Outer wall. Directed somewhat obliquely from above downwards, from without inwards, and from behind forwards, it is formed almost entirely by the membrana tympani, a kind of sep- tum which closes the inner extremity of the auditory canal, and which is very distinct from the mucous membrane of the cavity ot the tympanum, and from the skin which lines the auditory canal (2000). The latter, in particular, may be detached from it with tine ^rG3itGSt G3/SC The membrana tympani, presenting the obliquity which we have lust mentioned, forms, with the inferior wall of the auditory canal, a very acute retiring angle, while it seems almost a continuation ot the superior. Its form is that of a circle. Its extent is a little • tvp-vauv, Tympanum, a Drum.