S7 THE SPHENOID BONE. or Synclput; the posterior, the Occiput; the upper part, the Top or Bregma ; tlie lateral parts, the Temples; and the lower region, the Base of the Cranium. OF THE SPHENOID BONE. 113. Form. The Sphenoid * is a single bone, and symmetri- cal in its conformation, occupying the middle part of the base of the cranium. Its form is singularly irregular ; the eminences aijd cavities with which it is marked are very numerous ; and its uses are manifold. For the convenience of study, it may be divided into the following parts : f 114. Guttural ox Lower Aspect. This aspect is very unequal, and presents on the median line a ridge, called the rostrum or axy- gous process, more prominent before than behind, which enters into the upper edge of the vomer, and is continuous above with the septum of the sphenoidal sinuses. On each side, and from within outwards, it presents, 1st, A small groove which receives a plate of the vomer, and at the bottom of which is the orifice of a canal, very distinct in young subjects, Avhich becomes obliterated with age, and which, passing obliquely through the wall of the sphenoi- dal sinuses, opens within the sphenoidal fissure ; it gives passage to vessels. 2dly, Another small groove, contributing to form the Pterygo-palati7ie canal, which also gives passage to vessels, and is completed by a process of the palate bones. 3dly, The Pteryr gold Process,^ an irregular projection, which is directed vertically downwards; it contributes, on the inside, to form the posterior aperture of the nasal fossjB by a straight and smooth surface, vv'hich is fined by the pituitary membrane; and on the outside it gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle by a broader surface, which belongs to the zygomatic fossa: anteriorly and beneath, it presents irregularities, which join the palate bones, and are sur- mounted by a smooth triangular surface, forming part of the same zygomatic fossa: posteriorly, it is hollowed by the Pterygoid Fossa, broader below than above, into which is inserted the internal ptery- goid muscle, and which, in this direction, divides the process into two laminae, the internal of which gives attachment below to the supe- rior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and above, by a particular groove, called the Scaphoid Depression, to the external perista- phyline muscle. The pterygoid process is perforated above, from before backwards, by the Vidian or Pterygoid Canal, through which pass nerves and vessels of the same name. Liasthj, It is bifurcated ■ From the Greek word «ripS>, which signifies a wedge. ■\ A common division of tlie sphenoid is iiitoi^te viajorcs, or greater lehigs, and tlie cnrpun, or hodij. The former cornprelicnd all the parts of this bone situated to the outside of the cavernous grooves ; the latter is included between these two grooves, and IS nearly of a cubical form. \ U.T^ul,ala; i,ic:,Jbrma. r