OF THE TESTICLES. 807 and weigljt are considerable in the adult, and they are inucli less developed in children and old persons. 2970. The testicles are covered in the greater part of their ex- tent, by the serous membrane of which we have already spoken (2968). There may be distinguislied in each of them two slightly convex lateral surfaces, a lower edge inclined forwards, an upper edge turned backwards and coasted by the epididymis, an anterior extremity looldng upwards, and a posterior directed downwards. OUGANIZATION OF THE TESTICLES. 2971- A fibrous membrane, excreting vessels, blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and cellular tissue, enter into the composition of the testicles. % 2972. Fibrous Membrane or Tunica AUmginea. This mem- brane is of an opaque white, not unhke the sclerotica (1953), al- though a little thinner. It is distinctly fibrous, close in its tissue, traversed by blood-vessels, strong and viery tenacious, and serves as a direct envelope to the testicle, whose form it determines. Its outer surface is covered by the serous coat (2968). The inner^ which is applied upon the proper substance of the testicle, sends into the interior of the latter a great number of filiform or flattened prolongations, which all direct themselves towards its posterior edge, where they terminate. These imperfect septa divide the cavity of the tunica albuginea into several triangular cells, filled by the seminiferous vessels. One of them generally traverses the testicle from one extremity to the other. 2973. Internally of the tunica albuginea, along the upper edge of the testicle, is an oblong prominence, a little broader above than below, which is commonly named the Corpus Highmorianum. This body appears to be nothing else than a bulging of the mem- brane itself, through the upper part of which there pass obliquely the principal trunks of the seminiferous vessels which go to the epididymis. Some anatomists, on the other hand, consider it as a kind of canal into which these vessels open. Others, among whom IS Swammerdam, make it an assemblage of arteries and veins. 2974. Parenchyma of the Testicles. This parenchyma, which is very soft, presents itself at first sight under the appearance of a kind of yellowish or gray pulp, marbled with red, and tra- versed by the very thin small septa which arise from the inner sur- face of the tunica albuginea, and which seem to divide that sub- stance into lobes and lobules. But when carefully examined, the parenchyma of the testicle appears to be formed of an immense quantity of very minute and fiexuous filaments, interlaced and bent in all directions, and loosely connected with each other. Their strength is considerable, although their tenuity is such that, ac- cording to Monro's experiments, they cannot be more than of an inch in diameter. Although they do not ramify, their number