8-22 ORGANS OF GENERATION. The outer orifice of the urethra is surrounded by a kind of rim, formed by the mucous membrane of the vulva, which is always more prominent below than above. 3026. Entrance of the Vagina. It is occupied by the hymen or carunculffi myrtiformes. 1°. The Hymen,^ the existence of which was long disputed, and which is considered as one of the surest signs of virginity, is a more or less distinct replication of the mucous membrane of the vulva at its entrance into the vagina. Its form is extremely variable, be- ing semikmar, parabolic, or circular, nor does it in general close the canal in an accurate manner. Sometimes, however, it has been seen to form a complete septum, preventing coition and the flow of the menstrual fluids. Its thickness varies as much as its form and breadth. A few vascular ramifications are seen in it. 2°. The CarunculcB myrliformes are small reddish tubercles, rounded or flattened, and more or less prominent, which are only observed in women who have lost their virginity, and which are usually considered as the remains of the hymen, lacerated by the introduction of the penis into the vagina, or by child-birth. Their number is indeterminate, and varies from two to five or six. Their colour and consistence are different in different subjects; so that they may be seen of a vermilion red, livid or pale, firm or flabby. 3027- The Vestibule^ Fossa navicularis and Fourchette do not require any particular description. OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE VULVA IN' (;t;NKUAL. 3028. This membrane, which extends over all the parts of the vulva, and which of itself forms several of them, arises upon the free edge of the labia, invests their inner smrface, become^ folded to produce the nymphae, surrounds the clitoris with a particular prepuce, lines the vestibule, introduces itself into the urethra by the meatus urinarius, and ascends in the vagina, forming at the commencement of that canal the hymen or the caruncuhe myrli- formes. It is attached to all these parts in a rather loose manner, espe- cially towards the sides of the chtoris. It is of a vermilion red in virgins and young women, and becomes livid in those who are ad- vanced in age, who have had children, or who have abused coition. It is covered by a very distinct epidermis, but which becomes thinner as it becomes deeper. It has under it a very great quan- tity of mucous crypts, the orifices of which are disseminated at the surface of the vulva. These crypts are larger towards the chtoris than on the side next the perinaeum. • Y/iht mcmhrana.