By Dr. R. J. Anderson. 9 minor, which he called subclavius, arises from the anterior angle of the sternum, and is inserted into the coracoid.8. In echidna, according to Mivart,b no pectoralis minor is present; a small muscle arises from the first rib, and is inserted into the coracoid. The subclavius of Owen is inserted into the coracoid in ornithorhynchus. This rectus is inserted into the coracoid at no great distance from the epicoraco-humeral (the homologue of the subclavius of other mammals). In the wombat of the marsupialia the subclavius arises from the first rib, and is inserted into the outer end of the clavicle, and by means of the fascia covering the supraspinatus into the whole length of the spine of the scapula. It is joined by a fine tendon or thin muscle that arises from the sixth costal cartilage. A fascicle of the rectus abdominis passes into this muscle near its attachment to the rib.c In dasypus sexcinetus of the edentates the subclavius arises from the first rib, and is inserted into the whole extent of the upper border of the acromion process by a flat tendon, and becomes continuous with the fascia over the supraspinatus and the head of the humerus. It is split into two portions by the strong coraco-clavicular ligament. In orycteropus capensis the subclavius arises from the manubrium and the first rib, at its junction with the sternum, and in part by a slight prolongation of its fibres from the aponeurosis of the rectus. It is inserted aponeu- rotically, along the upper border of the acromial half of the clavicle, into the acromion and supraspinatus fascia.d In chlamydophorus truncatus it arises from the first rib, and is inserted into the coracoid process, acromion, and the acromial end of the clavicle.e In ai it is inserted into the clavicle and coracoid process.f The subclavius is absent in manis, myrmecophaga jubata, and some others. A retro-clavicularis is present in chlamydophorus, and arises from the upper surface of the first rib, near the sternal end, and is inserted into the acromion process and supra- spinatus fascia and coraco-acromial ligament.e In ruminants a sternoscapular muscle arises from the manubrium, and is inserted into the scapula.0 In the hippopotamus the subclavius is expanded upon the supra- spinatus at its insertion, forming a sternocosto-scapularis. In the pig it reaches the radial tubercle of the humerus.g In the porcupine the subclavius arises from the costal portion of the first rib, has a slight attachment to the scapular extremity of the clavicle, and is finally inserted into the spine of the scapula, the supraspinous a Owen. Op. cit. Vol. II., p. 609. b Trans. Linnsean Soc. Vol. XXV., p. 382. c Rolleston. Trans. Linnsean Soc. Vol. XXVI. d Galton. Trans. Linnsean Soc. Vol. XXVI. c Macalister. Trans. Roy. Irish Acad. Vol. XXV. f Humphry. Jour, of Anat. Vol. IV. g Observations on Myology.