OBSERVATIONS ON THE DIAMETERS OF HUMAN VERTEBRAS IN DIFFERENT REGIONS. By R. J. Anderson, M.A., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy, Queens College, Belfast. The measurements of the bodies of vertebrae.were made with a view to determine their relations in various regions, and to the diameters in other regions. The vertical diameters of the cervical region in front and behind were generally the same—a fact generally recognised. In the dorsal region the anterior vertical diameter is generally less than the posterior. The difference is less above. In the lumbar the anterior diameter may be equal to, greater, or less, than the posterior, always excepting the last. The diameters were measured with a millimetre rule. Most anatomists re- cognise the fact that the lumbar curve is mainly due to the intervertebral cartilages, but the actual in the anterior and posterior diameters are given differently by different authors. The vertical diameter (anterior) increases from the 3rd cervical to the last lumbar 14 m. to 29 mm. (Henle).1 The posterior vertical does not maintain the same steady increase in the dorsal and lumbar regions as the anterior. In the lumbar region a diminution is observable. Thus, in the mean of thirty measure- ments, the posterior vertical diameter of the second gives 27'4 millimetres and 22‘2 in the 5th lumbar. And in the mean of fifty measurements the sum of all the anterior diameters in the lumbar region does not exceed greatly the posterior sum, and this although the anterior diameter of the 5th lumbar exceeds greatly the posterior. The antero-posterior diameters increase from the 3rd cervical to the 3rd lumbar. But in the cervical region this increase is much slower than in the dorsal region, whilst in the lumbar region the antero-posterior diameter of the fifth and sometimes of the fourth are less than the third. The means of two series of measurements are given. In the first series the antero- posterior was taken from the anterior part of the body to the 1 Knockenlehre, p. 37.