10 DR R. J. ANDERSON. The intermaxillary muscle passes from one side to the other without interruption. The deep hyomaxillary muscle arises from the middle of the inferior maxilla near the upper border, and is inserted into the middle of the lateral cornu. In birds, the lingualis is attached to the posterior part of the tongue (glossohyal), and is inserted into the anterior part. Fleshy behind, it terminates in a long tendon which passes along the under surface of the tongue close to the median line. The hyoglossus arises from the side of the anterior piece of the mesial part of the hyoid (basihyal), and is inserted near the base of the tongue at the outer part of the upper surface. The ceratoglossus arises from the long posterior cornua surrounded at its orgin by the geniohyoid, and terminating in a long tendon, is inserted into the lower surface of the tongue external to the lingualis. The ceratohyoid (ceratoural) arises from the cornu near the anterior part, and meets its fellow of the opposite side in the median line, or is inserted into the posterior piece of the mesial portion of the hyoid. The former condition obtains in the goose, duck, and common fowl, the latter in the parrot. The muscles of the hyoid are the so-called stylohyoid, which arises from the posterior part of the external surface of the inferior maxilla near the lower border, and divides into two pieces, one of which is inserted into the median raphe beneath the urohyal, or into this bone; and the anterior slip passes beneath the ceratoglossus to be inserted into the basihyal beneath the hyoglossus. The geniohyoid arises from the inner surface of the inferior maxilla, and surrounds the posterior cornua at its insertion, forming a sheath for the ceratoglossus. In some birds a muscular band attached with the preceding to the inferior maxilla passes to the median raphe beneath the uro- hyal. A basithyroid muscle extends from the thyroid carti- lage to the basihyal, where it is attached above the hyoglossus. A thin membraneous intermaxillary muscle extends from the lower jaw of one side to that of the other. It is divided into two parts by a median septum. In the parrot, in front of the anterior portion of the geniohyoid, a slip united with the latter at its origin passes inwards to meet its fellow of the opposite side in a median septum, forming thus a groove over which the hyoid apparatus moves. In the same bird a genioglossal slip,