11 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE AND PHARYNX. arising from the inferior maxilla near the anterior part, is inserted with the hyoglossus into the tongue. The lingualis of birds is similar in position and connection to the muscle sometimes (always Bochdalek) present in man at the side of the median line internal to the geniohyoglossus. The hyoglossus of birds occupies nearly the position of the basioglossus of mammalia, very much enlarged and extended in these latter. The muscle named stylohyoid by Professor Owen differs from that attachment of the muscle of the same name, not only at its origin, but at its insertion. The portion inserted into the basioglossus, having regard to the alteration, corresponds more nearly to the styloglossus, or probably to the styloglossus and stylopharyngeus combined; whilst the posterior part represents the stylohyoid, or rather that portion, not present in all birds, which is attached to the posterior mesial part of the hyoid bone. The muscle in birds occupies a position in front of the same named muscle in man. If a displacement (relatively) of the muscle backwards take place with the development of the proximal parts of the second arch, so that the expansion would not only reach the second arch, but pass over the walls of the diges- tive tube to reach or extend beyond the middle line behind, meeting (or decussating) with the muscle of the opposite side, then a condition approaching that of mammalia would be obtained, a greater relative growth in the breadth of the base of the skull separating the styloid process from the subjacent structures would render the condition identical with that of mammalia as far as one portion of the pharnyx is concerned. The extension of the muscular fibres along the cornua of the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage would produce the middle constrictor and stylopharyngeus respectively. The pharyngeal fibrous coat would then correspond to the muscular layer of the digestive tube of birds. If with a movement downwards and backwards of the larynx (upper) a shortening of the hyoid cornua (posterior) take place, an extension backwards of the genioglossal fibres, which are already in immediate relation with the digestive tube, will produce that portion of the superior constrictor called mylopharyngeus, whilst a growth forwards will produce the geniohyoid and genioglossus in man. In the parrot, a special band on each side represents