MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE AND PHARYNX. 7 In Proteus of the amphibia there are three pairs of muscles on each side of the tongue bone. Of these the anterior passes from the posterior extremity of the second lateral cornu to the anterior of the first and the anterior of the mesial bone. The middle, close to the median line, extends from the anterior and inner end of the second cornu to the mesial bone. The third from the posterior end of the third cornu to the middle of the second cornu. In Kana and Bufo a longitudinal, perfectly or imperfectly divided muscle, extends from the posterior cornu of the hyoid bone to the anterior end and the whole circumference of the tongue, which it draws back powerfully. Even though in some the tongue cannot be protruded, the muscles are present. The muscles acting on the hyoid are as follows :— The depressor connected more or less with the rectus abdo- minis. In the tailed batrachia it is this muscle which passes from the inner surface of the clavicle to the posterior extremity of the hyoid bone. The retractor or omohyoid is attached to the inner surface of the middle or mesial piece of the scapula and the hyoid bone. The elevator passes from the styloid bone to the upper and posterior part of the second lateral cornu. The hyomaxillary from the inferior maxilla to the mesial piece of the hyoid or the beginning of the posterior cornu. A muscle passing from the inferior maxilla of one side to that of the opposite side is also present. In ophidia, the protractor arises from the anterior extremity of the inferior maxilla, and may be traced to the middle of its whole length. The retractor arises from the posterior extremity of the tongue bone, and forms almost the whole of the tongue substance. Near the middle line a special hyomaxillary muscle is present, which goes from the inferior maxilla anteriorly to the posterior extremity of the body of the hyoid. Posteriorly, this muscle passes into another, which is attached to the most anterior ribs and the trunk muscles as far as the spines of the dorsal verte- brae, where it meets its fellow of the opposite side in the median line. In Python bevittatus, the retractor of the hyoid has an opo-