ABNORMAL ARRANGEMENT OF THE THYROID AR- TERIES. By R. J. Anderson, M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy, Queen's College, Belfast. (Plate XX.). I. The Inferior Thyroid Artery. In a Male Subject.—The right superior thyroid arises from the external carotid near its origin, and divides into two branches —inner and outer. The subclavian artery gives off the following branches:— The vertebral which has the usual position. The internal mammary is normal in position and relations. The supra- scapular arises from the first stage of the subclavian as a separate branch. The posterior scapular arises from the first stage, and passes behind the anterior scalenus, and between two cords of the brachial plexus. The superficial cervical arises from the first stage close to the origin of the inferior thyroid. The inferior thvroid is derived from the first stage of the sub- clavian artery; it arches upwards and inwards, gives off the ascending cervical at a distance of one inch from its origin, and immediately after divides into two branches, superior and in- ferior. The former passes upwards and inwards behind the sheath of the common carotid and the sympathetic cord, and beneath the right lobe of the thyroid gland, and is distributed to the posterior, lower, and outer part of that lobe. The latter passes in front of the carotid at a lower level than the superior branch, and after a more prolonged course supplies the inner and lower part of the right lobe of the thyroid body, and gives branches to the anterior surface. The above arrangement is easily accounted for by supposing the inferior thyroid to divide nearer to its origin than usual, and the lower branch to pass in front of the carotid artery in place of behind it. In twelve subjects examined the inferior thyroid arose in one case as a separate branch from the subclavian, in one case from a trunk common to it and the transverse cervical, and in the remaining cases from the thyroid axis. In these cases the inferior thyroid had one of the following arrangements:—it