PRESENCE OF AN ASTRAGALO-SCAPHOID BONE IN MAN. 4 metacarpal has been found as a separate ossicle in several instances.1 In Carnivora, Cheiroptera, and many rodents (Mus, Castor, Hydroclicerus), and in many insectivors, a scapho-lunar bone is present. In pteropus of the Cheiroptera, the cuneiform unites with the scapho-lunar in the foot.2 In Crocodilia the scaphoid and astragalus coalesce to form an astragalo-navicular bone. In the Chelonia, whilst in the hand we have nine ossicles, in the foot of chelone, emys, testudo, and trionyx the centrale is united with the astragalus, and in emys the calcaneum coalesces into the astragalus.3 In reviewing, therefore, the various conditions of the bones of the tarsus in vertebrates, it is seen that the os centrale is found united with the cuboid (tragulina and pecora) with the astragalus (chelone), and in some cases the calcaneum is added (emys). In the carpus, the scaphoid and lunar unite (Carnivora), scaphoid-lunar and cuboid (pteropus), scaphoid and trapezium (sloth and megatherium).4 In comparing the bones of the carpus and tarsus, the astra- galus may be regarded as the homologue of the lunar (Vicq d’Azyr), or as corresponding to the united scaphoid and semi- lunar (Gegenbaur). The scaphoid in the foot, on the other hand, may be regarded as equivalent to the scaphoid in the hand, or to a portion of the scaphoid, the radial portion (of Gruber),5 or, lastly, as having no single portion of bone repre- senting it in the human carpus. The presence of the divided scaphoid in the case of man, the radial portion of which corre- sponds to the position of the os centrale of the Quadrumana would seem to favour the second idea. In the case noted above the astragalo-navicular would then be the homologue of the scapho-lunar bone of the carpus of Carnivora. And the case given by Wagner of the union of the semilunar and cuboid would approach the condition found in the carpus of pteropus, and be similar to the condition in the tarsus of certain of the Lacertilia. 1 Gruber, Beobachtungen aus der Menschlichen unci Vergleichenden Anatomic, Heft ii. p. 37. 2 Flower, Osteology of Mammalia. 3 Ifvuiley, Anatomy of Vertebrates, p. 200. 4 Owen, Nature of Limbs. Virchow's Archiv. Band lxxiv. p. 433.