12 Respiratory Excitation and Depression. as serve to diminish or increase quantitatively the flow of blood to the right heart. This observer has shown that the abstraction of blood, provided that it does not exceed a certain amount, does not diminish the amount of haemoglobin. Tying an animal in the recumbent position, produces a transitional increase and decrease. The cutting and stimu- lation of the spinal cord affects the amount of haemoglobin in so far as it affects the flow of blood to the right heart. Tying the portal vein is attended with a diminution in the amount of haemoglobin in the arterial system; this diminution takes place with a variable degree of rapidity depending on the vascular connexions of the vena portae. The diminu- tion is apparently more rapid than the sinking of the arterial pressure. Interruption of the circulation in the lower extremity is attended with somewhat variable results.51 These experiments prove that the number of corpuscles in the arterial and venous system is subject to variation, and that it is dependent upon such a variation in the tension of the vascular system as increases or diminishes the flow of blood to the right heart; and this tension is, within certain limits, under the control of the nervous system. In making an estimation, therefore, of the amount of oxygen contained in the blood under different circumstances, it is necessary to take account of the amount of hcemoglobin contained in the blood-stream. Thus, if the number of blood-corpuscles in any part of the system be increased, more oxygen, cceteris paribus, will be found in that part of the system, and if less blood-corpuscles, then less oxygen will be present. An alteration in the relation of the blood-corpuscles to the capillary walls is regarded by some as a result of deficient oxygenation. Tn this respect their con- dition is, to some extent, comparable to the relative conditions of the blood and blood-vessels in inflammation. In the latter, in the second stage, a massing of the red blood-discs takes place in the capillaries. This phenomenon, which was regarded by Lister to be of the same nature as the formation of rouleaux in blood that is drawn, has been shown by other observers to depend, in part or altogether, on an altera- tion in the capillary walls.b A change in the distribution of the blood-corpuscles in the state of asphyxia, which would be attended with the withdrawal of an appreciable number of blood-discs from the larger arteries and veins, would necessarily, other things being the same, lead to a diminution in the amount of oxygen in the larger veins and arteries. An estimation of the amount of oxygen in the larger arteries and veins would, in that case, require correction before it could be taken as a sign of the oxygenation of the general mass of blood. In the condition of apncea, on the contrary, the diminution in a Ueber die Vertheilung der rothen Blutscheiben im Blutstrom. Reichert und Du Bois Reymond’s Archiv. Pliys. Abth. 1878. b Dr. Sanderson, in Holmes’ Sui'gery. Yol. V , p. 757-