DR R. J. ANDERSON. 4 can be felt on each side; these bodies are small (age of subject, 84). The perinseum is perfect behind the scrotum. The bladder is of moderate size and the walls of normal thick- ness. An opening above and behind shows the mucous mem- brane to be slightly tinted red. The ureters have the usual position, their ducts open one and a half inch behind the pubes. The verumontanum is best seen by drawing the posterior wall of the bladder back; it forms a considerable eleva- tion, which is greatly increased by injecting water into the vas deferens of either side. The openings of the ducts are situated near the upper border of the elevation, and close to one another. The vasa deferentia are somewhat increased in size as they descend on the posterior wall of the bladder; each is ^ined by the vesicula of its own side. The latter receptables are some- what smaller than usual. The prostate is large, and bounds the neck of the bladder behind and slightly at the sides. It is firm on pressure. The erectores penis and ejaculatores urinae are present; the lat- ter present a somewhat flattened appearance. Their attachments do not deviate materially from the usual condition. The crura are fixed behind in the normal position, and pass forwards and inwards, and widen slightly behind the glans on passing air into each crus; it does not pass into the glans nor from one side into the other. The corpus spongiosum, smaller than usual, is situated in the middle line between the crura, and diminishes in size anteriorly; less than half an inch wide behind, it is less than a quarter of an inch at the junction of the crura, and is continued forwards between these bodies. The triangular ligament is well formed and firm. The sub- pubic opening will admit the index finger on pressure, but it is not patent. Dissections of epispadias with and without ectopia vesicae have been previously made, and accounts of these and other cases have been recorded.1 The abnormality may be accounted for by referring the Professors Humphry, Turner, and Cleland, Jo urn. of Anatom)/, vols. iii. an<f t.