16 The Morphology of the Omohyoid Muscle. muscle is inserted.11 The supraclavicular nerves in this example passed over the omohyoid and the sternoscapular muscle. The relations of the origin to the sternothyroid and the insertion of the omohyoid, together with the fact that the muscle has the same nervous supply, show that it belongs to the lateral ventral muscle. The connexion with the posterior part of the omohyoid seems to show that these muscles are to be regarded as parts of the same lateral muscle band; and the connexion of the sternoscapularis with the sternum internally, the clavicle and scapula externally, shows that it is a serial homologue of the subclavius. The posterior belly of the omohyoid must, I think, be regarded as homologous with the subclavius. The reasons for this conclusion may be briefly stated thus :— (1) The origin of the subclavius is closely connected with the rectus in some animals. Wombat, orycteropus. The posterior belly of the omohyoid passes into the mesial layer prolonged from the rectus, as a permanent condition in cryptobranch. (2) The nerves of the limb separate equally the subclavius and costo- coracoids equally with the omohyoid from the serratus or costo-scapular group. (3) The aberrant supraclavicular muscles present an origin and inser- tion similar to the subclavius, and resemble closely the omohyoid in their attachments, relations, and nervous supply. (4) The extensive clavicular attachment of the omohyoid in certain of the animal series can be explained as a part of the attachment of the recto-clavicular muscle—the inner surface, in some cases, being part of the rectus prolongation. (5) The omohyoid is bound down to the clavicle so closely in many cases as to completely obliterate the subclavian triangle—in 13 out of 373 subjects (Turner, loc. cit.) ; and the same arrangement occurs when the subclavius takes origin from the scapula, as in case given above. a Krause. Die Nervenvarietaten. During the present session I have recorded three instances where a single branch of the descending nerves perforated the clavicle.