2 Nov. 1873, p. 113. DIVISION OF THE SCAPHOID BONE OF THE CARPUS, WITH NOTES ON OTHER VARIETIES OF THE CARPAL BONES. By R. J. Anderson, M.A., M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy, Queen's College, Belfast. In a carpus of the left side of a male subject, a division of the scaphoid occurs. The other carpal bones present no unusual features. The scaphoid consists of two parts, an anterior and a posterior por- tion. The posterior part is the larger, and has an upper convex surface for articulation with the radius. This surface is eburnated along the inner half of its extent, and the outer half is rough and non-articular; the whole surface measures one inch, and is rather more than a line broad. The inferior surface (outer) articulates with the trapezoid and the trapezium. The outer end is rough and non-articular ; the inner end has a slight notch which receives the semilunar. The anterior surface is concave, eburnated, and has grooves from friction ; it is broader externally than internally, and articulates with the anterior portion. The internal surface (for os magnum) is narrow, in part articular for the os magnum. The anterior segment is not unlike the pisiform in shape and size. It has an upper convex articular surface for the radius covered with cartilage. A lower concave articular facet which, with the scaphoid, receives the head of the os magnum. The posterior surface is convex, eburnated, and grooved, and articulates with the posterior segment. The inner end articulates with the semi- lunar. The abnormal character of the carpus above described resembles those mentioned by Gruber in his various papers, and in position the os centrale of the typical carpus. Professor Gruber points out in one of his papers1 that a small notch is present in -||ths of all the scaphoids, below the ulnar end of its dorsal surface. The notch is generally semilunar, of variable size and depth. This notch is some- times large, and may receive a ninth carpal bone, which there lies between the trapezoid, the scaphoid, and the os magnum. Professor Gruber brings forward good reasons for believing this to be the repre- sentative of the central bone of the carpus. Amongst other English anatomists Professor Struthers found a bone in the situation mentioned by Gruber, and described it in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology.'2 This anatomist considers it to be a fracture with formation of a false 1 Reichert and Du Bois Reymond’s Archiv., 1873, p. 716.