THE PEESENCE OF AN ASTEAGALO-SCAPPIOID BONE IN MAN. By E. J. Andekson, M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy, Queen's College, Belfast. In a male subject, aged 34. The lower extremities are well formed. The feet are small and well shaped. When the soft parts of the right foot were removed, the carpus consisted of six bones—the astragalo-scaphoid, os calcis, cuboid, and three cunei- form, The astragalo-scaphoid has an upper surface which is articular behind and non-articular in front. The articular portion occupies rather more than half of the upper surface; it is narrower behind than in front. The outer margin is more prominent than the inner. The anterior and outer angle of the bone is cut off by a vertical plane. This causes the anterior border to be a quarter of an inch narrower than the transverse measurement of the surface half an inch farther back. The anterior portion of the upper surface is non-articular, and in front reaches the head of the bone; it is convex from side to side, and perforated by numerous foramina. The posterior surface has the markings usually observed on the posterior surface of the astragalus. The external surface is partly arti- cular and partly non-articular. The articular part forms a trian- gular facet with which the fibula articulates. The lower part of the surface is bent outwards, so that the surface looks upward as well as outwards. The anterior part of the external surface is non-articular and corresponds to the outer portion of the neck, which, however, is not so well marked as in the astragalus. The inner surface has a pyriform articular facet, such as the astragalus possesses. A rough surface is situated below, and a large rough surface in front of this. The inner articular surface is more prominent than that on the outer side of the bone. The iuferior surface has a large facet behind, which is con- cave from side to side, and articulates with the facet on the upper surface of the os calcis. In front of this and corresponding to the middle third of the inferior surface is a rough depression. At the centre of this depression a small elevated facet is situated. It measures a quarter of an inch from side to side,