h By Dr. B. J. Anderson. 13 the sternohyoid near its insertion, and inserted border to border with it, and so far may be understood as obtaining its substance, not from the rectus, but from the prolongation of the lateral internal oblique layer, as distinguished from the mesial part; yet the variety given under No. 2 shows that the anterior belly may have an intimate connexion with the superficial part and not the external part. And No. 5 shows, as, indeed, other varieties, that the anterior belly may be connected with the posterior part of the prolonged rectus. Variety No. 4 is another illustration bearing on this point—a portion of the omohyoid is inserted into the anterior part of the tendinous intersection of the sternohyoid. Unless a portion of the anterior belly be considered as absent in this case, we must regard a part of the sternohyoid above the intersection as portion of the omohyoid that has coalesced with the sternohyoid, but a third assumption is possible—namely, that the fibres of continua- tion are to be sought in the part below the intersection. In case, then, these varieties point to the fact stated by Prof. Henle that the anterior belly corresponds to the sternohyoid, and should be regarded as the analogue, or, • to go a step further, as a differentiated part of the sternohyoid mass, this differentiation can be easily accounted for. The separation of the cleidohyoid, as given in No. 2, from the more deeply placed sternohyoid, can be explained on the same principle as the separation of muscles into layers in the limbs and elsewhere, and such an interpretation is rendered almost certain by the fasciculated varieties met with in connexion with the omohyoid. The division of the muscle given above was as perfect as the ordinary separation that exists between the sternohyoid and the omohyoid; and the muscle shreds that so frequently exist between the omohyoid and the sternohyoid is additional evidence bearing on this point. On the whole, therefore, the varieties met with point to the fact that the anterior belly of the omohyoid should be regarded as a portion of the sternohyoid (at least in man), and that the tendinous intersection of the central mass represents the point at or below which the separation takes place. That the breadth of the tendon of the omohyoid to some extent depends upon the extent of the original connexion of the posterior belly with the mesial mass. Its length is probably due to a variety of circumstances—the extent and firmness of the fascia investing it, the length of the muscle, and the angle of junction. The first and last because they affect its action, and the second, conjoined with either of the former, would serve to increase its length. The absence of an anterior belly is attributable, without doubt, to a solution of the connexion with the mesial mass, or to its original weakness.3, a Dr. Whitla, of Belfast, has told me of a case where the anterior belly was displaced by a small round tendon on both sides. It occurred in a person who had worn a trachea cannula for forty-three years.