5 Many theories have been proposed to account for abnormal- ities of the above character. In a previous number of this Journal1 will be found a description in accordance with altera- tions which take place in the abdominal contents during foetal life. Huschke described2 a fossa, called by him “fossa duodeno- jejunalis,” limited, above, by the posterior layer of the transverse mesocolon, internally, by the duodenum, and bounded at the left side by a sharp falciform marginal fold. The fossa was well seen in a female subject dissected during the present session in the Anatomical Booms, Queen’s College, Belfast, of which the fol- lowing is a description:—The transverse colon, with its meso- colon, being drawn up, the peritoneum was found free from adhesion. On turning over the jejunum to the right side, so as to expose the duodeno-jejunal flexure, a fossa was observed, 2 inches in extent from above downwards, and about one inch in depth, bounded by the duodenum internally, and by the aorta internally and behind, a large falciform fold forming the outer boundary. The upper cornu of the fold was continuous with the peritoneum of the posterior layer of the transverse meso- colon, the inferior cornu with the peritoneum covering the duodenum. The external surface of the fold was continuous with the internal layer of the descending mesocolon; the in- ternal surface of the fold was continuous with the peritoneum covering the aorta, i.e., with the posterior parietal peritoneum. In the fold the left colic artery coursed for two-thirds of its extent. The inferior mesenteric vein was crossed by the left colic artery below the fossa, and afterwards arched inwards beneath the fossa. In the fossa one inch of intestine was found. In a subject dissected in the Anatomical Booms last winter the fossa contained two inches of intestine, and was sufficiently large to have contained four inches of the bowel. Treitz, from a minute and extensive examination of similar cases, was led to the conclusion that the inferior mesenteric vein lies usually in the falciform fold, and not behind the fossa, as described by Huschke, and Luschka adopted this description. The fossa has the following relations:—It is bounded by a fold 1 Dr Cleland in Journ. of Anatomy and Physiology, ii. 201. 8 Sommering’s Lehre von den Eingeweidcn, von Huschke, pp. 215, 216.