4 mesenteric vein, which accompanied the artery of the same name. The inferior mesenteric artery arising from the aorta, one inch and a half from its commencement, gave off the left colic branch, which took a direction upwards over the neck of the sac, then upwards and to the left, and then outwards over the sac. The sigmoid and haemorrhoidal arteries coursed beneath the posterior parietal peritoneum to their regions of distribution ; the former being situated also behind the sac. The inferior mesenteric vein was situated behind the posterior parietal peri- toneum during its whole course, and received its left colic tributary at the upper margin of the aperture of the sac. The latter having separated from its left colic artery at the junction of the middle third with the upper third of the aperture. The neck of the sac was thus bounded by the aorta and the inferior mesenteric artery behind, and by the left colic artery and left colic vein in front; the junction of the left colic artery with the inferior mesenteric being situated at its lowest part, and that of the left colic and inferior mesenteric veins being situated at the upper part of the aperture. An incision 3 to 4 inches in length was made external to, and independent of the opening. The small intestines were free, and no adhesions observed. The sac was 8 inches in length, 4 in breadth, and lined with a serous membrane. The wall in front of the sac was found to consist of two layers, which were separated readily and completely from each other. The superficial layer was continuous with the peri- toneal covering of the left colon, and therefore with the general peritoneum. The inner layer formed a complete sac continuous at its neck, in front with the outer layer, and behind with the peritoneum of the posterior wall of the abdomen and the mesen- tery. Thus the free surface of the wall of the sac was continuous with the free surface of its internal layer, the marginal fold con- taining the left colic artery and vein. The cavity of the sac became narrower on being traced to the middle line, and com- municated with the abdominal cavity by an aperture 2 inches in length from above downwards, closed by adhesions which were readily broken up. The posterior wall of the sac, contain- ing the jejunum and ileum, was covered with a layer of felted connective tissue, from which patches could be removed; but a definite membrane could not be demonstrated at that part.