8 The Morphology of the Omohyoid Muscle. sternohyoid, sternothyroid, hyoglossus, geniohyoglossus, and the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx. To the same stratum may be referred the styloglossus, the stylohyoid, the stylopharyngeus, the digastric and the superior constrictors. The muscles that pass to the shoulder girdle are those which pass above the glenoid cavity belong- ing to the serratus or costo-scapular group, which group is prolonged into the omohyoid and levator anguli scapulae anteriorly, and those that pass to the girdle below the glenoid cavity, the costo-coracoid group, in- cluding the sterno- or costo-scapularis and the subclavius. The nerves to the limb serve to separate the groups in question. In cryptobranch (p. 11) the internal oblique fibres acquire an antero- posterior direction near the mesial line, and are continued into the deep fibres of the rectus. Anteriorly the omohyoid has a very similar relation to the sternohyoid. If, then, we trace the middle layer forwards, we have as its representatives, attaching the limb to the trunk, the serratus and levator anguli scapulas posteriorly, the costo-scapular or costo- coracoid (subclavius) attaching the limb to the trunk anteriorly, the nerves to the upper limb separating the anterior (lower) from the pos- terior (upper) group. The nerves which separate the subclavius from the serratus separate the omohyoid from the same muscle. The omohyoid and subclavius present many important points of re- semblance, and these will be more readily seen if the varieties of the latter muscle be compared with those of the former. In emys europaea the subclavius arises from the under part of the first costal plate, and is inserted into the suprascapula and the con- tiguous part of the scapula. a In the crocodile the epicoraco-humeral muscle, which Professor Rolleston regards as the homologue of the sub- clavius, arises by two heads—the inner from the visceral surface of the scapula, the outer from the precoracoid and from the prescapular portion of the preglenoid expanse. The inner is intimately connected at its in- sertion with the pectoralis major, and, together with the tendon of the outer head, occupies a position between the deltoid and pectoralis major. The insertion of the omohyoid corresponds with the origin of the pre- glenoid head, and the fibres of the two muscles are, to some extent, con- tinuous with one another, at least in young specimens.b In the emu, according to the same anatomist, the epicoraco-humeral muscle arises from the mesial part of the sternum or “ rostrum” of the bone, from the coraco-clavicular membrane, and from an irregularly quadrangular pre- glenoid headland constituted by the scapula and coracoid; it is inserted into the humerus above and internal to the deltoid, and superficial to the coraco-brachialis. In apteryx, according to Professor Owen, a portion of the pectoralis a Owen. Anatomy of Vertebrates. Vol. I. b Rolleston. Trans. Linnaeau Soc. Vol. XXXV., p. 609.