By Dr. R J. Anderson. 11 the amount of the carbonic acid in the blood produces necessarily an alteration in the relation of the blood to the capillaries. If such an alteration be attended with a withdrawal of the blood-discs from the capillaries and an increase of these elements in the larger arteries, then the amount of oxygen, as given by an analysis of the blood in the larger vessels, is too high, if it be taken as a sign of the oxygenation of the general mass of the blood. Pfliiger has shown that the colour of the blood depends on the number of corpuscles present, as well as the gas contents.a The venous blood in apncea is frequently dark in colour—a circumstance attributed by Finkler and Oertmannb to the character of the artificial respiration and the nature of the heart’s action. They showed that if the animal be placed in a warm bath the venous blood becomes red. This may be accounted for in two ways. The effect of the warm bath is to cause dilatation of the capillaries, and the blood that passes into the veins has more oxygen, and the heart’s action is at the same time increased by the heat (Finkler and Oertmann) ; or the change in the colour of the blood, from dark red to bright red, may be accounted for by supposing the heat to produce such alteration in the walls of the capillaries as leads to a dilatation of these vessels and an accumulation of red blood-corpuscles in them. In this case the number of blood-discs in the larger vessels would be reduced, and a brightening in the colour would result—so that if such an alteration in the general distribution of the red blood-corpuscles takes place in asphyxia and apnoea, the number of oxygen carriers in the larger vessels in the former case is diminished, and in the latter increased, whilst the total number in the blood may be unaltered. The velocity of various fluids through capillary tubes must be regarded as an important element in the determination of the general condition of the blood, from an analysis of a portion of blood taken from a large vein or artery during the condition of apnoea or asphyxia.0 It is necessary to take a glance at the mechanical means used to pro- duce apnoea. Artificial respiration differs from ordinary respiration in this way, that in the former the air is used to force out the lungs and chest walls, and in the latter the expansion of the chest and lungs draws in the air. The force used in drawing air into the lungs, and which acts upon the various tissues in the air passages and chest walls, produces the simple mechanical effects of pressure upon the terminations of nerves in heir structures, or by expanding the muscular and elastic tissues of which the lungs and parietes are composed, alters the condition of the nerves supplied to these structures. The state of expansion of the chest walls and lungs acts as a stimulus to the expiratory (inhibitory) nerves of respiration, and the state of contraction acts as a stimulus to the inspiratory a Archiv. B. I. b Op. cit. c Annales de Chimie. III., XXI., 76.