342 DR. R. J. ANDERSON. anterior part of the vertebral foramen. In the second series the measurement was made from the anterior part of the body to the line drawn across the points where the arch rises from the body. The latter measurements differ but little from the former in the cervical and lumbar regions but much in the dorsal. The maximum transverse diameters vary in position in different regions. They are placed farther back in the upper dorsal region, and approach the middle of the autero-posterior diameter as they are followed upwards or downwards. The antero-posterior and transverse diameters are most nearly equal from the 5th to the 8th dorsal vertebrae; above and below the antero-posterior are much less. In the mean of the transverse the 5th dorsal has the smallest. A gradual increase takes place from the 2nd cervical to the 2nd dorsal vertebra, then a diminution to the 5th dorsal, and this is succeeded by an increase which goes on to the 5th lumbar. In certain parts of the dorsal region in most of the vertebral columns examined, the bodies were found not to be equilateral. As a rule, the right sides of the bodies are greater than the left, from the 7th to the 10th dorsal vertebrae. This may hold for all the vertebrae lying between the 3rd and 11th. Sometimes, with a large right side from the 7th to the 10th, a large left side is present in the upper dorsal region. This unilateral enlargement is probably due to the lateral curvature. The greater weight of the viscera on the right side is, without doubt,- an element in these cases. In the former case the bodies of the vertebrae are at the right sides less curved, and the antero-posterior diameter of the bodies are placed a little to the right of the median line. The transverse diameters of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae of most animals that I have examined exceed the antero- posterior. The exact relations I hope soon to publish. In the following table will be found :— A. The vertebral column of an adult where the largest measurements were found. B. The vertebral column of an adult where the least measurements were found. C. The means of the transverse diameters of the bodies of fifty-three vertebral columns.