9 By Dr. R. J. Anderson. The dyspnoea so produced is referable to one of the following causes— direct stimulation of the respirations without a corresponding stimulation of the inhibitory centres, or a weakening of the latter without affecting the former. In the former case, the centre itself, the peripheral extre- mities of afferent nerves, or the cerebrum, are the parts to which the stimulus is applied ; in the latter, the respiratory inhibitory agents are the parts affected. If the increase of temperature acts only on the in- hibitory centres, then the excitor nerves would either produce apnoea by their owu action, or assist artificial respiration in producing it in case complete oxygenation be sufficient for that purpose. Ackermann and Goldstein have shown, however, that apnoea cannot be produced by arti- ficial respiration when an animal suffers from heat dyspnoea, and this although the blood contained in the veins became bright red during the experiment—hence the stimulus must be due, in part at least, to the direct or indirect stimulation of the excitor centres. That heat dyspnoea is not due to the presence of venous blood alone, the experiments of Ackermann and Goldstein show; that it is almost entirely due to the increased temperature, our experiments seem to prove, as artificial respi- ration altered but little the character of the respirations. The stimulus may be applied to the respiratory centre directly or in- directly, as already mentioned. Goldstein’s experiments show that the dyspnoea is not produced by the action of the heat upon the peripheral extremities of the sensory nerves, on the peripheral extremities of the vagus, or the higher sense organs. Cold applications to the surface, cutting the vagi, and the administration of narcotics, did not affect the results. Heating the carotid in a water bath was found sufficient to produce heat dyspnoea. The amount of air breathed during this form of dyspnoea seems to be greatly augmented. Several methods may be used in an investigation of this kind. Muller’s bottles may be employed with water or mercury, or Czermak’s lever a applied to the chest, and connected with an electro- magnetic arrangement which alternately opens and shuts the inspiratory and expiratory tubes. For the determination of the gases, Regnault and Reiset’s modification of Lavoisier’s apparatus is the most accurate.b The respiratory movements of an animal cease under certain circum- stances, and this though the heart beats as before, and the actions of the body remain unaltered. This condition was named apnoea by Rosenthal. Hook, in 1667, opened the chest of a dog before the Royal Society, and by means of a bellows forced air into the lung, which escaped by punc- tures made over their surface. He found that u the eyes were all the “ Gesammelte Schriften, p. 820. b Recherches Chemiques sur la Respiration des Animaux. Annales de Chimie, 3rd Series, 299. T. XXVI. For a description and figure of Lavoisier’s apparatus see Jamin, Cours de Physique. T. II., p. 494.