4 The Morphology of the Omohyoid Muscle. cervicis, complexus and rectus abdominis, where the tendinous inter- sections indicate simply the remains of the original separation of the muscle into a number of segments corresponding to the body mctamers. The presence of a tendinous intersection at the lower extremity of the sternohyoid serves to strengthen the relation, as it shows the intimate connexion of the sternohyoid and omohyoid. The tendinous intersection of the omohyoid being generally well marked, and sometimes of con- siderable length, is explained by the facts that the muscle here makes a bend and it is in relation with the deep cervical vessels. The varieties met with in the animal series and in man show that the omohyoid belongs to a muscle group which is represented in man by the sterno- hyoid and sternothyroid. This group is supplied by the cervical nerves coursing in the hypoglossal path. Secondly, in the lower forms the origin of this muscle group extends from the sternum to the clavicle and is continued to the scapula. In crocodiles an episternohyoideus is present, which in the saurians becomes an episternocleidohyoideus, and in plat}ulactylus (Sanders) extends to the claviculo-scapular articulation, whilst it passes quite to the scapula in uromastix (Furbinger). By separation of individual portions of this muscle, muscles arise distin- guished as the sternohyoid, sternothyroid, cleidohyoid, and omohyoid—a simple absence of muscle substance giving rise to the varieties observed in man and animals. The most frequent variety is the cleidohyoid, which in man, though frequently present, is not usually developed. This variety occurs once in every 15 subjects according to Hallett.a In 373 subjects, 8 on both sides, 4 right side only, 5 left side only, majority in middle third, rarely inner third (Turner13). One in 12 subjects (Gegen- baur°). Finally, the fascia uniting the omohyoid to the clavicle is explained by the retrograde metamorphosis of the cleidohyoid. This is shown by the fact that muscular fibres are to be found in the fascia having the same character and course as those of the cleidohyoid; and the fascia is attached to the muscle, and more firmly to the tendon, with which it is intimately connected. This fascia, which extends from the lower inner border of the omohyoid to the clavicle, is not to be regarded as a portion of the deep cervical fascia. Albrechtd shows that although the omohyoid is part or is represented by part of a continuous muscle layer in certain vertebrates, yet in a very considerable number of animals the omohyoid is present as a distinct muscle or is absent altogether, and that it is recognisable in the lower classes. a Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. 1849. b Edinburgh Medical Journal. 1861. P. 982. c L. c. P. 247. d Beitrag zur Morphologie dee M. Omohyoideus.