PALATINE BRANCH PROM THE MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERY. i 13* superior tliyroid arises close to the origin. The occipital is derived from the external carotid, at a distance of one inch from its origin, and immediately afterwards gives off an accessory pharyngeal artery, which first passes upwards between the external carotid and occipital, then lying on the internal carotid it passes with this artery beneath the stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-glossus, and posterior auricular artery, and finally enters the carotid canal. This artery, near its origin from the occipital, gives off a pharyngeal branch that passes downwards be- neath the external carotid, facial and lingual arteries, and enters the middle constrictor, an inch higher up a meningeal branch, which goes through the jugular foramen; and finally, before entering the carotid canal, it gives branches to the superior constrictor, and a long branch that enters the internal pterygoid muscle near its posterior (outer) extremity. The sterno mastoid artery is derived from the occipital. The ascending pharyngeal arises from the external carotid close to its origin, passes upwards on the inner side of the internal carotid, and distributes branches to the pharynx and anterior spinal muscles. A meningeal branch also is given off by this artery, which goes through the foramen lacerum medius, and finally a palatine branch. The internal maxillary artery arises below the condyle of the lower jaw, and passes forwards and inwards over the external pterygoid. The tympanic arises from the external carotid, and ascends to the Glaserian fissure. The middle meningeal arises from the internal maxillary, and passes upwards to the foramen spinosum. Three lines from its origin it gives off a branch, whose calibre is nearly equal to that of the con- tinuation of the meningeal. Derived in this way from the middle meningeal, this artery passes downwards beneath the internal ptery- goid between this muscle and the superior constrictor, turns round the border of the tensor palate, and divides into two branches, one of which (the upper) is distributed to the soft palate, the other to the pharynx. This artery gives off the small meningeal at a distance of one line from its origin. The small meningeal, before its passage through the foramen ovale, distributes some small twigs to the ex- ternal pterygoid, and gives off a branch of more considerable size that anastomoses with a branch of the palatine artery. Near the tensor palate, the palatine artery gives off a branch that passes upwards in relation with the internal pterygoid, then comes into contact with the tensor palate, and divides into two branches, one of which, after giving off small muscular branches to the tensor palate near its origin, breaks up into small twigs that enter the external pterygoid plate; the other branch gives also some muscular twigs to the tensor palate, and finally perforates the sphenoid above the scaphoid fossa; before enter- ing the sphenoid, a communication takes place between this artery and the small meningeal. Of the two terminal branches of the upper part of the palatine artery, one passes along the free, the other along the attached border of the soft palate. The inferior dental artery arises from the first part of the internal maxillary, and gives off the mylo-hyoid branch. In the second stage, YOL. XV. K