RESPIRATORY EXCITATION AND DEPRESSION." Automatic respiratory actions have their origin in the medulla and spinal cord. In the former the respiratory bundle is a cord 1 mm. in thickness, which consists of varicose nerve fibres, and is united at its origin with the nucleus of the vagus. This cord receives fibres from the glosso-pharyngeal vagus and spinal accessory, and is connected also with the hypoglossal. In the middle and lower part of the medulla the bundle divides into parallel branches, and these appear to stand in relation with the phrenic nerve. In the dorsal and upper part of the lumbar region the posterior vesicular column, which consists of ganglion cells and nerve fibres, and is most sharply and distinctly limited in the position of the lower dorsal and upper lumbar nerves, establishes a connexion between certain fibres of the posterior roots and other parts of the spinal cord of the same side. In continuous connexion with this nucleus are scattered masses of cells in the cervical and sacral regions of the spinal cord. In the spinal cord the respiratory bundle is a longitudinal cord of fibres, which may be traced upwards to the medulla oblongata. Nerve fibres pass upwards to the higher nerve centres that establish a connexion between this and the respiratory centre.b Thus respiratory centres exist in the medulla and spinal cord, capable not only of propagating but of reflecting stimuli. The principal respiratory centre is situated near the calamus scriptorius.® Nerve fibres that serve for different respiratory purposes are connected with the medulla oblongata and spinal cord; motor nerves, that act on the muscles of inspiration and respiration; and sensory nerves, that transfer stimuli from distant parts to the respiratory centres, and ulti- mately to the muscles concerned in the respiratory acts. The vagi are distributed to the muscular structures found in the trachea (at the extre- mities of the rings and between the rings),d bronchi, and lungs, and the a Read before the Ulster Medical Society, April, 1879. b Krause. Algemeine und microscopische Anatomie. Pp. 391, 392, 412. c Longet. Traits cle Physiol ogie. d Ludwig. Lehrbuch der Physiologie des Menschen.