9 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE AND PHARYNX. In Chelonia, the retractor of the tongue extends from the inner end of the anterior cornu of the os hyoides to the lateral border of the tongue. A second is found in Chelone, more posterior and external, which passes from the anterior two-thirds of the anterior cornu to the lateral border of the body. A third in Chelone beneath the first passes from the small mesial sublingual cartilage into the tongue substance. The protractor is larger than the latter, but smaller than the other tongue muscles. The depressor of the hyoid bone arises from the outer end of the clavicle, and goes to the cornua of the hyoid bone. An omohyoid is wanting. The elevator arises from the posterior extremity of the inferior maxilla, and passes from before and without backwards and inwards to the outer end of the anterior cornu. A hyomaxillary muscle is present, and corresponds in its attachment to the whole length of the maxilla, and descends far into the neck. The protractor is strong, and passes from the place of union of the inferior maxillae to the inner half the anterior cornu. In Crocodilia, the retractor of the tongue arises from the middle of the bony cornu, and passes into the posterior half of the tongue by six or seven processes. In Crocodilia, the protractor is double. The parts arise from the anterior extremity of the lower jaw, the outer and larger passing along the outer border of the tongue to its posterior extremity. The inner, much smaller, unites towards the posterior part of the tongue with that of the other side, and reaches into the middle round the hinder border. In crocodiles and other reptilia, the depressor of the hyoid bone passes from the sternum to the hyoid, and sends a process to the inferior maxilla. The retractor or omohyoid arises from the scapula, and is inserted into the middle of the bony cornu.1 The elevator moves the bone to the side, and extends from the muscles attached to the inferior maxilla (inner surface), and is inserted by two processes into the lateral border of the hyoid plate, and behind to the outer half of the lateral cornu. 1 Episterno-hyoideus, Episterno cleido-hyoideus of Sauiians.