5 Bv Dr. 11. J. Anderson. tant) there was quiescence of the diaphragm, tetanic contraction of the abdominal muscles, great diminution of the thoracic cavity, and depres- sion of the ribs.a The action of the superior laryngeal nerve is thus comparable to the action of the splanchnic on the intestines and the vagus on the heart, with this difference, that the centres on which these nerves act are situated in the organs themselves, whilst in the case of the former nerve the centre is situated in the medulla oblongata. (The researches of Legallois and Flourens showed that the centre for the diaphragm was situated in the medulla.) The fact that stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve produces inhibition of the diaphragm by its action on the nervous centre in the medulla confirm the opinion of Ludwig and Weber that the two nerves above referred to produce inhibition by acting on nerve cells situated in the organs to which they are distributed.13 The connexion of the respiratory centres with the higher parts of the nervous system ensures a certain amount of controlling power. By the will the number of respirations can be increased or diminished, and the respirations are influenced by the degree of activity of the cerebrum. The effect of close attention upon respiration is an often-mentioned illustration of this fact. Certain changes in the blood produce very marked effects upon the respiratory actions. The blood so altered may cause these changes by its action upon the respiratory centres or upon the peripheral terminations of nerves connected directly or indirectly with them. The effect of the introduction of certain substances into the blood is well known. Atropia, for example, when given in small doses, increases the number of the respirations—in large doses it diminishes. Opium retards, and its action is distinct after section of the vagi.0 Strychnia increases the number and depth, and phenic acid causes the respirations to become, first, rapid and regular, and then rapid and feeble.d The effect of morbid poisons has only to be mentioned. An increase or diminution of oxygen in the blood gives rise to pheno- mena which are due to an increased or diminished stimulus to the nerve centres, which may take place as the direct effect of an increased or diminished stimulus, or indirectly by the increased or diminished oxida- tion of certain products in the blood.e An increased amount of carbonic acid acts as a powerful stimulus to the respiratory centre. Dyspnoea can be produced in an animal by causing it to breathe nitrogen or carbonic acid (70 0 to 30CO2). In the former the quantity a Rosenthal. Op. cit., 229. b Comptes rendus. 1861. 755. c Roller. Handbuch der physiologischen Therapeutik und Materia Medica. Pp. 1004 and 1072. d Bert. Leyons sur la Physiologie compare de la respiration. 416. e Ludwig and Schmidt. Berichte d. Gesell. der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig. 1867.