5 DISSECTION OF A CASE OF EPISPADIAS. condition to an arrest of development or failure of lateral parts to meet in the middle line, or by supposing rupture to take place at an early period. That failure of the lateral parts to meet in the middle line cannot sufficiently account for the presence of the ectopia vesicee, which so frequently occurs with epispadias, Professor Cleland has shown, unless indeed the view of Reichert and Remak1 be adopted, that the allantois is developed by two processes, which subsequently afterwards coalesce. And if this view be adopted, it will be necessary to assume their incomplete coalescence.2 Vrolik3 considers the presence of ectopia vesicae with a partial epispadias, as in Baillie’s case, where the posterior part of the urethra was bridged over, an argument against the hypothesis of rupture. That, however, urine must appear in the abdominal cavity in case of rupture, does not necessarily follow if close apposition of the urinary tube with the abdominal wall have previously taken place. The fringed borders were absent in the above noted case and others. The corpus spongiosum, it will be seen, has a position between the crura and the corpora cavernosa. The body was narrow, yet the breadth of the flattened penis was increased. The corpus spongiosum was inflated for some distance (2-3 inches) from the bulb. Three facts especially deserve attention. The position of the prostate, which is almost confined to the posterior (inferior) part of the bladder ; secondly, the high position of the urethral orifice ; and thirdly, the condi- tion of the urethral groove. All these point to a transference of the urinary orifice forwards. A displacement backwards of the tube from the upper level of the prostate to the anterior extremity of the groove, without alteration in the position of the corpora cavernosa, would reduce the parts to the normal position, provided that the corpus spongiosum be moved back also for some distance. Hence, in the above case, without reference to ectopia vesicce, there is evidence of a dislocation forwards of the urinary passage from the prostate (posterior border) to the extremity of the urethra. If, then, at a period when the crura 1 Foster and Balfour, Embryology, p. 148. 2 See Budge, “ Ueber die Harnblase bei Vogelembryonen.”—D&utschcn Med. Woclicnpch, No. 8, 1881. 3 Frolik, Cyclop, of A not. and Physiology.