4 DR R. J. ANDERSON. The latter serves to unite the base of the skull in some animals with the first as is well known, and occasional slips in man have been seen. The septal muscle, situated between the genio- glossus of opposite sides, may be regarded as a hyom axillary or accessory genioglossus. The connections of the pharynx and tongue with the base of the skull are as follows:—The pharynx is connected to the base of the skull by a true cephalo-pharyngeus (occasionally present), the levator palati and a portion of the tensor palati by means of the palato-pharyngeus; to the first arch by means of the superior constrictor; to the second and third arches by means of the middle constrictor and stylopharyngeus. The tongue is connected with the base of the skull by the tensor palati through the palato-glossus to the first arch by means of the styloglossus (occasional slip) and genioglossus; to the second by means of the styloglossus and chondroglossus; to the third by means of the keratoglossus and basioglossus. The inferior lingualis may be placed in the last-mentioned set. The septal muscle already referred to, which is single (Henle), or double (Luschka), and which is rarely absent according to Bochdalek, may be considered an additional hyoglossal muscle developed in the fibrous tissue of the septum.1 The varieties of the tongue and pharyngeal muscles present many points of interest in this connection. A styloglossal slip (and sometimes the whole styloglossus muscle) arises from the inferior maxilla; an example of the former occurred in a subject dissected during the present session. The maxillary slip was half-an-inch broad at its origin, and partially connected with the internal pterygoid; the organ was tendinous. An accessory stylohyoid muscle was present on both sides of the body, the stylohyoid ligament being also present, which had connections similar to the muscle. A slip has been seen passing to the pharynx (Sandifort).2 In a female subject, aged seventy, on the left side a slip from the posterior border of the styloglossus passed over the stylohyoid ligament, and was continued into the fibres of the middle constrictor. Professor Gruber has seen a slip from the external auditory meatus to the tongue. A slip from the 1 Hcnlc’s Eingcwcidelchrc, p. 106. 2 Macalister, Trans. Rug. Irish Academy, vol. xxv.