254 DR. R. J. ANDERSON. joint. In Virchow’s Arcliiv/ Professor Gruber discusses the question, and points out that, apart from the presence of the small bones in the situations above mentioned, there is nothing that indicates any abnor- mality duo to disease or injury, and states his conclusions thus :— (1.) Fractur des Naviculare Carpi geht immer in sagittaler, d. i. in der die Liingsaxe des Knochens kreuzenden Richtung und fast an derselben Stelle vor sich. (2.) Totale Fractur bestehe immer ohne Dislocation der frag- mente. (3.) Gelenkknorpel und Articulationen seien selbst bei totaler Fractur so wenig in Mitleidenschaft gezogen, dass Zeichen davon ersteren in spaterer Zeit an der Leiche nicht mehr nachzuweisen sein. How, in the above-mentioned case, we have evidence of pressure not only between the pieces of the scaphoid (the scaphoid and centrale), but further evidence of pressure and friction at the upper surface of the posterior bone. Whilst in the lower piece the posterior surface is eburnated and worn a groove by the rubbing, whilst the radial surface is covered with normal cartilage. If this example be regarded as a case of the scaphoid and centrale being present, then it remains to explain the cause of the eburnation in two distinct places, whilst all the other parts are free. On the other hand, if it be regarded as an actual fracture, it must then be concluded that fracture of the scaphoid may take place in a direction parallel to its longitudinal axis. Union of the Os Magnum and Trapezoid. The bones of the carpus of a right upper extremity present generally no unusual features. The os magnum, however, which has its inner surface normal, and an upper part or head of the usual size and shape, has the piece of bone representing the trapezoid attached to its external surface. Posteriorly the surface of the os magnum is continuous into that of the trapezoid without intermission, but a slight very superficial groove seems to indicate the line of original separation. The upper surface of the trapezoid shows the usual quadrilateral facet, and it is continued into the os magnum without any line marking a division. The inferior surface of the bones is articular for the second metatarsal and third ; posteriorly there is no line of separation, but a fissure exists at the anterior part, which occupies the lower and anterior surfaces. This condition seems to be rare, and the fact that no other carpal bones are involved, leads to the hypothesis that the union took place at a very early period, or that the bones never became completely differentiated. To find the scaphoid and semilunar united, we must look down low in the mammalian series. In certain of the Rumin- antia, viz., in Pecora and Tragulina, the trapezoid and os magnum are confluent. In the three-toed sloth the same condition obtains.- 1 Vol. 69, 1877, p. 391. - Flower, Osteology of Mammalia.