14 Respiratory Excitation and Depression. nerves0, (Ilering and Langendorff). The effect of artificial respiration is to stimulate the nerves distributed to chest walls, diaphragm, and air- passages, so as to produce an inhibitory action, and in this way the active inspiratory agents become quiescent. The experiments of Brown-Sequard, made with a view to determine the cause of the arrest of strychnia tetanus under certain circumstances, support this theory. Brown-Sdquard confirmed the observations of Rosenthal and Leube, that insufflation arrests strychnia tetanus, but differs from these observers with regard to the cause. Rosenthal considered the arrest to be due to the increase of the oxygen in the blood. Brown-Sdquard found that the mechanical effect of insufflation upon the terminations of the vagi and the nerves of the diaphragm was the cause of the cessation of the tetanic spasms, since insufflation was without effect after division of the vagi and section of the spinal cord above and below the origin of the phrenic nerves.b Thus it is seen that insufflation has a distinct inhibitory effect upon muscular contraction, and this by the stimulation of the terminations of the nerves supplied to the air-passages and diaphragm. The respiratory centres then can be excited in many ways. Oxygen diminishes, carbonic acid excites, respiratory action. As the oxygen is carried to the respiratory centres by the blood-discs, the fewer the number of blood-corpuscles that travel to the medulla, and the less oxygen they contain, the respiratory centre receives the greater stimulus. In- crease in the amount of oxygen in the blood-corpuscles and increase in their velocity will compensate for a diminished number. An increased velocity can be obtained by an increased action of the heart, and an increase of oxygen by more perfect aeration. Artificial respiration acts in two ways upon the nerve-centres. The carbonic acid contained in the blood and air-passages is diminished, so that the nerve-centres lose the stimulus due to the action of carbonic acid on the respiratory centres; secondly, the pressure of the air forced into the lungs upon the nerve terminations in the bronchi, &c., produces an inhibitory effect upon certain respiratory structures. EXPLANATION OF PLATE. Fig. 1. Respiration curve after cutting of the vagus. a• Artificial respiration.) tracing continuous with, and subsequent to, Fig. 1. b. Apnoea. > 3. Respiration curve, vagus cut, with pulse waves. 4. Same tracing (heat dyspnoea). 5. Respiration curve before resistance. 6. a. During resistance. b. After resistance. 7' | Respiration curves. N.B.—In Figs. 1 to 6 the vertical lines mark intervals of 5 seconds. In 7 and 8 the tracing of a time-marker indicating seconds is shown. a Du Bois Reymond’s Archiv. 1879. b Ringer. Therapeutics. P. 561.