11 By Dr. R. J. Anderson. sented in the wombat, where the fibres are (in part) continuous with the rectus. An origin of the omohyoid, on the other hand, from the sternum is not, so far as I know, on record; and an example of a sterno- scapular muscle, which, I think, must be regarded as belonging to the sternohyoid set of muscles, I shall give later on. The insertions of the omoyhyoid and subclavius present, however, many characters which show a definite relationship between these muscles. Each muscle is inserted in some of the animal forms into the clavicle, scapula, coracoid process, and humerus. What in man is a normal attachment of the omohyoid, is an aberrant attachment of the subclavius, and the omohyoid is attached to the under surface of the clavicle in a large percentage of cases. Six cases were recorded in ninety subjects during the present session (1880-81). I shall now give some varieties of these muscles. Two of the sub- clavius are recorded with accompanying variation in the attachment of the omohyoid. The first case is that of a costo-scapular muscle, differing but little from the cases of Theile and Wagner. That it was a true subclavius will be easily seen from the description. 1. In a female subject, aged forty-five, on both sides of the body a muscle arises from the cartilage of the first rib by a tendon one and a half inches in length ; this is continued into a round fleshy belly which passes beneath the clavicle, to which it is attached by a firm fascia, over the subclavian and suprascapular arteries and brachial plexus, and is inserted into the upper border of the scapula for one inch, extending forwards from the superior angle. The muscle is supplied by a branch from the fifth and sixth nerves of the brachial plexus. The omohyoid arises from the under-surface of the clavicle for the extent of one inch at the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the bone; it passes upwards and inwards and unites with the sternohyoid. Below the point of union is situated a tendinous inscription in the omohyoid, from the inner extremity of which a fibrous band passes inwards to the sterno- hyoid, where it is prolonged into a tendinous inscription less marked than that of the omohyoid. From the arch so formed fleshy fibres pass up to the conjoined sternohyoid and omohyoid, filling up the triangular interval by a thin fleshy stratum. The fibrous band, which was one- tenth of an inch broad, has been referred to by Professor Turner in his paper. 2. The second example occurred in a male subject, aged fifty. The trapezius is inserted into the outer two-tliirds of the clavicle on each side; on the right side the external jugular vein passes through a foramen in the muscle close to the clavicle, and the supraclavicular nerves pass forwards through the same foramen. The omohyoid is attached to the upper border of the scapula from the superior angle to