11 By Dr. R. J. Anderson. and caustic potash, and passed into a large receiver, placed over lime- water ; into this receiver a jet of lime-water kept constantly playing. Two mice were introduced into the atmosphere of oxygen (Experi- ment XIX.), and were confined in a wire cage, and supplied with food. The receiver was perfectly free from carbonic acid during the whole experiment, and the amount of the latter gas was estimated from time to time, and noted. During the whole time the mice remained remarkably tranquil, and no remarkable difference was observed in the character of the respirations. The amount of oxygen absorbed when air is breathed is placed by Pfliiger at nine-tenths of the amount absorbed when oxygen is breathed. Gr^hant a found, however, the amount very much greater in the latter case, and considers the increase, ^-|th, due to the rapidity of the circula- tion and activity of the respiratory movements, which cause a frequent renewal. It must be remembered, however, that frequent renewals of the air in artificial respiration is attended with a diminution of the car- bonic acid contained in the blood and in the air-cells ; and thus the stimulus is diminished. It is well known that if, by the power of the will, the number of normal inspirations be increased, the amount of carbonic acid expired is increased. Czermak points to this fact in connexion with Rosenthal’s experiments. He says:—“If in tranquil respiration I make 3-4 respirations in 15 seconds, and interrupt the breathing by a final deep inspiration, I succeed in keeping my breath for 30-35 seconds, then, however, the respiratory necessity forces me to continue respira- tion. If, on the other hand, I make 15-18 complete respirations in 15 seconds, and again interrupt my breathing with a similar deep inspi- ration, I am enabled to retain my breath for another half minute or minute before I am forced by the same degree of respiratory need to resume my respiration.” b The amount of oxygen absorbed by the blood varies, according to the experiments of M. Grehant, in different apparently healthy animals of the same species (thus the volume per cent, that could be absorbed he found in one case 18*8, and in another 3T3), and is proportional to the amount of haemoglobin in the blood. The experiments of von Lesser, performed in the Leipzig laboratory, show that many circumstances affect the amount of haemoglobin in the blood. The amount of haemoglobin in the large arteries and large veins, at the same time and under the same circumstances, is the same. A variation in the rapidity of the flow of blood in the arteries, due to increase in the peripheral resistance or variation in the number of heart beats, produces no change. The amount of haemoglobin in the blood- current is dependent on such variations in tension in the arterial system a Grehant. Comptes Rendus. T. LXXV., p. 496. b Centralblatt f. d. Wissenschaft., 1866 ; and Gesarmnelte Schriften, p. 767.