MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE AND PHARYNX. 5 corpus triticeum has been seen to pass to the tongue separately or in connection with the keratoglossus.1 In one case, in which the lingual artery passed over the keratoglossal fibres, a stylo- hyoid muscle replaced the ligament of the same name, gave a slip to the posterior thyrohyoid ligament, and a thin band to be inserted into the great cornu of the os hyoides; on the opposite side of the body the muscle replaced the ligament also. In this case the middle constrictor fibres, destined for the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, passed over the lingual artery and beneath some fibres of the hyoglossus. The palato-glossal fibres are continued into the transverse fibres of the tongue. The Pharyngeal Muscles.—The superior constrictor has been seen to give fibres to the mylohyoid at its attachment to the inferior maxilla and to the buccinator at its buccal attachment. The lower fibres have been seen to pass into the genioglossus and hyoglossus. They are stated by Professor Henle to pass into the transverse fibres2 in front of the palato-glossal fibres. The results of several dissections lead me to believe that they are continuous, at least in great part, with the genioglossal fibres. The middle constrictor receives sometimes a slip from the base of the skull. This variety occurred during the present session. The slip was attached above to the vaginal process of the temporal bone, external to the attachment of the levator palate, and part with the middle constrictor, in part separately reached the middle line posteriorly. This muscle and also the middle constrictor have been seen to receive slips from the thyrohyoid. In a case already referred to, the middle constrictor received a bundle from the posterior border of the styloglossus, and sent a bundle with the styloglossus to the tongue. The stylo- pharyngeus has been seen to give off a bundle to the stylo- glossus, and to be inserted into the uvula, epiglottis and thyroid cartilage. The normal connections of the muscles of the tongue and pharynx, taken with the variations sometimes met with, point to an intimate relation existing between those of the former and those of the latter. The continuity of the pharyngeo-glossal fibres with those of the transverse lingual and genioglossal fibres 1 Op. cit., p. 108. Macalister, op. cit.