DR R. J. ANDERSON. 138 the anterior and posterior temporal, buccal, and masseteric arteries are given off. The posterior dental and infraorbital arise by a common trunk from this portion of the internal maxillary—a not unusual variety. In the third stage, the internal maxillary gives off the de- scending palatine, and divides into three branches for the nose, pterygo-palatine and vidian foramina. Many of the anomalies recorded above are frequent. The occasional presence of an accessory pharyngeal artery is recorded by Mr Quain,1 Weber,2 and other anatomists. A branch of the ascending pharyngeal that passes through the carotid foramen and supplies the dura mater near the sella turcica or the wall of the cavernous sinus, has been mentioned by Quain and Hyrtl.3 The large branch of the accessory pharyngeal artery to the lower and anterior part of the middle con- strictor seems unusual; a laryngeal branch of the ascending pharnygeal is mentioned by Hildebrandt.3 The internal pterygoid branch of the accessory pharyngeal' artery above noted seems of interest. The middle meningeal has been seen to give off an artery to the tongue, which divided into sublingual and dorsal lingual.3 The origin of a palatine artery from the middle meningeal is unusual, and if taken in connection with the fact that a branch of considerable size enters the body of the sphenoid, would seem of more than ordinary interest. That branches of the pharyngeal arteries should supply the sphenoid bone is to be expected; and from the known facts with reference to the development of the pituitary body, and the connection of the anterior part with the pharynx at one period, the arterial supply of the continuous structure is probably derived from the same source when the anterior part is united with the pharynx. As the body of the sphenoid becomes filled up, the connection of the hypophysis (anterior lobe) with the pharynx becomes narrower, and finally the parts are separated, the former joining the infundibulum. The vascular supply from the pharyngeal source ceases partially or entirely, and becomes replaced in part or altogether by an intracranial supply. In one case recorded by W. Muller,4 an artery (presumably) from the pharyngeal was found coming from the body of the sphenoid and entering the pituitary body. A foramen cavernosum ossis sphenoidei for the vena vertebralis mcdiana is present in the rabbit (W. Krause).5 The pala- tine artery described above may be supposed to represent an original palato-maxillary artery, and supply the process of that name, the pharynx and the hypophysis. The change that resulted from the further development of the parts left the major portion of the artery supplying the palate and the pharynx, whilst another portion, viz., that which supplied the hypophysis, remained as a branch entering the body of the sphenoid. 1 Arteries, p. 110 (8 cases in 144). 2 Hildebrandt’s Anatomic, vol. iii. 361. 3 W. Krause, in Henle’s Hondbucli cler Gafcisslchre, p. 251. 4 Jcnaischc Zeitschrift, 1871, referred to by Henle, op. cit. p. 251. 5 Allgcmcinc und microscopische Anatomic, p. 437.