0 The Morphology of the Omohyoid Muscle. ** Albrecht. Loc. cit. P. 11. Albrechta tabulates the varieties of the omohyoid, thus :— 1. Mammals in which a muscle homologous to the omohyoid is absent—- (1) Edentates, (2) many Carnivora, (3) Pinnipedia, with the excep- tion of phoca, (4) Rodentia without a clavicle, (5) many of the Insectivora, (6) Cheiroptera, with exception of noctulina (.see Macalister). 2. With the omohyoid resembling closely the omohyoid of man— (1) Ornithodelphia, (2) Didelphia, (3) Meles, hyaena, lutra (Carnivora), (3) Prosimiae, (4) Rodentia with clavicles (5) Insectivora erina- ceus, (6) Primates, with the exception of troglodytes aubryi. 3. With a musculus coracohyoideus, Equus. 4. M. cleidohyoideus, Noctulina. 5. M. omocleidohyoideus, A. Troglodytes aubryi. 6. M. omobrachio-hyoideus, Sus. 7. M. trapezio-brachio-hyoideus, Hippopotamus. 8. M. sterno-brachio-hyoideus, Phoca. 9. M. spondylo-hyoideus, Ruminantia. Of these varieties the first five are known to occur in man, and have been recorded by anatomists ; of Nos. 6 and 8 examples must be extremely rare. An example differing slightly from these forms I shall give later on. Instances have, however, been given which approach the conditions given above; thus, Hallett and Schwegel show detached bundles of the posterior belly inserted into the sixth cervical transverse process or into the sterno-mastoid and into the fascia of the scalenus (Hallett). Kelch and Gruber have mentioned a muscle which passes between the outer end of the clavicle and the transverse processes of one or several cervical vertebrae. A cervico-costo-humeralis is described by Prof. Gruber, which was inserted into the smaller tuberosity of the humerus by two tendons into the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebrae and the anterior end of the first rib cartilage. The other varieties referred to by Prof. Gegenbaur, Albrecht gives, and remarks that the examination has been confined to the mammalian and reptilian type. These varieties are the M. episternohyoideus of crocodiles, the episternocleidohyoideus of saurians, and the episternocleido-omohyoideus superficialis of the inastix. The evidence in favour of the omohyoid belonging to the system of the rectus abdominis, amongst the mammalia, Albrecht points out, is based principally on the presence of a cleidohyoid in a noctulina, an omocleidohyoid in a troglodytes aubryi, and the musculus brachio- sternohyoides of phoca. In opposition to this the monotremes present a condition of this muscle resembling closely that of the higher forms. On the other hand, the amphibia, and not the reptilia, are to be looked