12 The Morphology of the Omohyoid Muscle. the notch, to the ligament over the notch, and to the base of the coracoid process; it is further attached to the outer half of the clavicle. The external jugular vein and supraclavicular nerves pass beneath a tendi- nous arch close to the clavicle, to which some fibres are attached. The muscle is inserted into the hyoid bone superficial to the sternohyoid. A cleidohyoid muscle arises from the inner third of the clavicle for the extent of one inch, is separate from the sternohyoid in all its extent, and is inserted into the hyoid bone above that muscle. On both sides a supraelavicularis is present, arising from the manubrium beneath the sternomastoid; it is inserted into the clavicle between ari anterior and a posterior layer of the sternomastoid. The interest attaching to this case is due to the many irregularities. The individual varieties have been observed by many anatomists. The attachment of the omohyoid superficial to the sternohyoid is the fact which I shall make use of. o. In a male subject, aged forty-eight, on the left side of the body the omohyoid has the normal origin. Above the middle of the clavicle it divides into two parts; the upper is connected with the anterior belly by means of a tendon, and this belly of the muscle is closely connected with the sternohyoid. The lower division, half an inch broad, is inserted into a more than usually strong tendinous inscription in the sterno- hyoid. The place of insertion is on the anterior aspect of the muscle. A muscular fasciculus is given by this muscle to the sternothyroid, the outer border of which it joins. 4. Instances are on record where the omohyoid presented a double belly at the anterior and posterior part. In a male subject (left side) this muscle arises from the scapula at the usual place, and is inserted into the hyoid bone. So far the muscle presents no unusual features, but for an extent of three inches extending on both sides of the tendinous inscription the muscle is double ; each part resembles a normal omohyoid. 5. The last variety in this connexion to which I shall refer is the case of absence of the anterior belly. This variety is rare, as Professor Macalister did not meet with it once in 600 subjects. The variety occurred in a female subject, in which the omohyoid of the right side presents an anomaly somewhat similar to that recorded by M‘Whinnie. A portion of the outer fibres passes over the sternohyoid near its inser- tion, over the hyoid bone and beneath the mylohyoid, and then enters the geniohyoid. A portion of the sternohyoid crosses beneath this bundle and is continued into the hyoglossus. On the left side of the head and neck the omohyoid arises from the scapula and terminates in a fibrous band in front of the carotid vessels. This divides into two; both pass upwards; the inner is inserted into the os hyoides, the outer is lost in the cervical fascia, with which both are in close connexion. These varieties point to the fact that the anterior belly of the omohyoid, usually distinct in the case of man, lying side by side with