6 of peritoneum embracing the two folds (duodeno-mesocolic of Huschke), and the posterior parietal peritoneum covering the aorta, and extending from that vessel to the left. In the inferior cornu courses the left colic artery, and in the superior the inferior mesenteric vein. These vessels crossing at a sharp angle, a vascular arch is thus formed, with its concavity inwards.1 The development of the fossa is easily accounted for. At a time when the liver is large, and occupies both hypochondria, the alimentary canal is mesial. When the liver becomes smaller (relatively), and comes to occupy the right hypochondrium, the pyloric end of the stomach and the duodenum are drawn to the right, the upper and lower transverse parts of the duodenum being thus produced. The peritoneum in the neighbourhood of the duodeno-jejunal flexure is also drawn to the right side; and in this way, in consequence of the loose tissue beneath the posterior abdominal peritoneum in that situation, the fossa and the plica duodeno-jejunalis is produced. The movement of the colon does not compensate for the movement of the duodenum, but rather tends to throw into relief the prominent border of the fold (Treitz).2 The relations of the fossa duodeno-jejunalis to, and its bearing on, the case of the abnormality instanced will be seen on com- paring the boundaries in each case. If the vascular arch be situated close to the margin of the fold, anything tending to increase the weight of a piece of intestine pressing upon the fossa will also tend to increase its size. The larger the piece of intestine in the fossa, the more effective will the pressure be. • An experiment suggested by Treitz will show with what ease such an action may take place. Take a dish with a high border, place it upon a table, and in its neighbourhood place a quantity of small intestines. If now an end of the intestine be drawn over the margin of the dish, and a small quantity of water be poured therein, the whole intestine may be drawn into the dish. A very similar condition obtains in the duodenum. A quantity of fluid is frequently transmitted from the duodenum through the duodeno-jejunal flexure. If a portion of intestine be contained in the fossa, a certain pressure is exercised which will tend to 1 Lusclika, Die Anatomic dcs Mcnsehen, iii. 152. 2 Hernia Rctnywitoncalis, von W- Treitz.