By Dr. R. J. Anderson. 5 In mammalia we find it in the lowest forms; in the ornithodelphia it is almost the same as in man. In echidna,a according to Mivart, the omohyoid does not much deviate from the condition found in the higher mammals (man). In ornithorhyncus13 the omohyoid is present and inserted with the mylohyoid into the hyoid bone; a sternohyoid is present as a distinct muscle. In the marsupials0 the omohyoid presents a scapular origin. The omohyoid is wanting in the edentates (Owen, Humphry,d Macalister,e Galtonf). The ungulates have an omohyoid. In the ruminant. artiodactyla the origin is somewhat variable from the transverse process of the last cervical, in the giraffe from the trans- verse process of the third cervical. The pachydermatous artiodactyla (Humphry8) possess an omohyoid which passes over the anterior edge of the scapula to the upper border to be connected with the radial tubercle of the humerus and the deltoid by fibrous tissue. In the hippopotamus, according to Professor Humphry, the omohyoid passes from the side of the basihyal and the subhyoidean septum to the under surface of the occipito-humeral part of the trapezius, which it joins at an angle and is united to it by an inscription.11 In the horse,1 of the perissodactyla, the omohyoid arises from the coracoid process. The omohyoid is absent in the carnivora, but some possess it, as meles, hyaena, lutra. Of the pinni- pedia, Prof. Humphry11 states that this muscle in phocah is continuous with the sternohyoid, forming a broad muscle which is inserted into the sternum, the ulnar tubercle of the humerus, and a fascial band between the two, similar—as Albrecht remarks—to the arches of the diaphragm or the tendinous arch in connexion with the adductor magnus. In the descoid placental mammals an omohyoid similar to man has been described in tarsius and cheiromys. Rodents that have a clavicle have an omohyoid. Of the insectivora no erinaceous muscle is present. According to Professor Macalister, in the vespertilionidie the omohyoid is slender and distinctly biventral. In the phyllostomine bats scarcely a trace of tendinous intersection. In noctulina a band arises from the middle of the clavicle and joins the sternohyoid midway between the origin and insertion; above the point of union is a tendinous inter- section.J In primates the omohyoid is similar to that muscle in man. In troglodytes aubryi an omocleidohyoid is present (Grateolet). a Mivart. Trans. Linnsean Soc. Vol. XXV., p. 383. b Owen. Anatomy of Vertebrates. Vol. III., p. 5, Fig. 3. c Gegenbaur. Op. cit. P. 259. d Journ. Anatomy. Vol. IV., p. 29. e Trans. Roy. Irish Academy. Vol. XXV., p. 232. f Trans. Linnaean Soc. 1870. P. 571. Vol. XXVI., p. 523. e Observations in Myology. P. 127. h Humphry. Op. cit. P. 126. The foremost fibres run on to the humerus. 1 Owen. Anat. of Vertebrates. Vol. III. j Trans. Roy. Soc. Vol. CLXII. 1872. P. 134.