10 The Morphology of the Omohyoid Muscle. fascia, and by this to the deltoid, and is extended over the supraspinatous to the humerus.a In the guinea-pig the subclavius arises from a small surface on the presternal pro-osteon, and from the cartilage of the first rib, exteriorly, to which latter point of origin the epicoracoid has coalesced with the vertebral rib. Some of its fibres are inserted into the coraco-clavicular ligament and some into the clavicle, but it receives fibres also from the clavicle. The muscle is then inserted into the acromion (anterior border), and with the deltoid some fibres become continuous.13 In the cheiroptera the subclavius arises from the first rib, and is inserted into the clavicle.0 The following table represents the varieties, with an origin from the first rib, rib and manubrium, and rectus, or precoracoid and scapula. It is inserted into— (1) The suprascapula and scapula. (2) The humerus. (3) The coracoid. (4) Outer end of clavicle and spine of scapula. (5) Acromion, supraspinatus fascia, and humerus. (6) The scapula, with an origin from the sternum. (7) Receives fibres from rectus. (8) Radial tubercle of humerus. (9) Spine of the scapula and humerus. (10) Coraco-clavicular ligament, clavicle, and acromion. (11) Clavicle only. Comparing the varieties found in man with these, the subclavius has occasionally an attachment to the clavicle, coraco-clavicular ligament, and coracoid process. It may be inserted into the clavicle, coracoid process, and upper border of the scapula, and may at the latter place be inti- mately connected with the supraspinatus fascia. A condition, very similar to that of ruminants, was observed by Mr. Wood, and recorded by him many years ago. The subclavius may be absent; of this I have met with two cases in ninety subjects dissected during the present session. Absence of this muscle was observed by Prof. Gruber. If the varieties of the omohyoid be placed side by side with those of the subclavius, it will be seen that, first, as far as the origin is concerned, there is evidence of a connexion with the rectus. In the case of the former the anterior belly is inseparably united with the ventral muscle in some lower forms, and occurs as a not infrequent variety in man, so that in these the posterior belly must be regarded as a muscle radiating from the rectus, and, in the case of the latter muscle, a variety is pre- tt Rolleston. Loc. cit. b Galton. Loc. cit. c Macalister. Trans. Roy. Soc. 1872.