By Dr. R.~J. Anderson. 7 In another experiment, with a resistance of 0 mm. of mercury, the number of respirations was 6 per minute; with a resistance of 5 mm. the number was increased to 13*2 per minute; and with a resistance of 2 mm. the number of respirations was 10 per minute. The vagi were cut at the beginning of the experiments. Bert has made numerous ex- periments with reference to the effects of obstruction. They will be found in his book on Respiration.8, Dyspnoea and asphyxia can be produced by supplying an animal with air or oxygen which contains ozone. The effects of a change in the condition of the oxygen inhaled have been studied by Professor Redfern, Dr. Barlow of Glasgow, Dr. Richardson, and others. Dr. Redfern made use of mice in many of his experiments. The ozone was prepared by electrolysis, and, after being purified, was passed into the chamber containing the animal. A mouse (in Experiment XI.), weigh- ing 50 grains, was placed in the chamber containing oxygen and ozone, at 4 33 p.m.; in half a minute the eyes were closed; in a minute the head was elevated during inspiration. At 4 35 the mouse was removed, and exposed to a current of air, but no improvement took place. At 5 15 the animal is still breathing almost imperceptibly; eyes closed; can walk a few paces when disturbed. At 10 10 the animal, which has remained quiet since last report, and whose respirations have been regular (87 per minute) during the greater part of the time, is attacked now with dyspnoea. The animal died at 10 30 p.m. The right side of the heart was found gorged with blood; the left side was empty. In order to determine whether the dyspnoea was due to closure of the glottis, an opening was made in the trachea. The animal (in Experi- ment XIV.) was then introduced into the chamber ; in 2^ minutes the mouse fell over on its side, and in 3^ minutes died. In Experiment VIII. the mouse commenced to inhale the ozone at 12 27; at 12 52 the mouse moved about uneasily, and rubbed its nose; at 12 58 convulsions and death. It will thus be seen that death resulted from asphyxia, the heart in this case also being gorged with venous blood. The experiments of the same observer on rabbits, frogs, insects, and worms, were attended with similar results. These experiments have been confirmed by the observations of Dr. Barlow,b who considers the asphyxia to be due to an alteration of the lining of the air-cells by the ozone. In the experiments recorded above, the amount of ozone present was about the ^^jth Parh the remainder being oxygen ; so that oxygen, in the form of ozone, is a very powerful agent in the production of dyspnoea. Dyspnoea produced by heat is of interest to the physician and physiologist. a Op. cit., p. 408. '* Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Vol. XIV., Part I.