By Dr. R. J. Anderson. 7 upon as morphological allies of the mammalia. In the frog an omohyoid is known to exist, and the same muscle has been described in many other amphibia. Humphry has described the muscle in menobranch and cryptobranch. The condition in uromastix may be looked upon as a union of the omohyoid with episternocleidohyoid. Albrecht shows that in fishes—of which he takes as examples spinax acanthias, raia clavata, acipenser sturio, and gadus morrhua—inter- branchial muscles belonging to the internal oblique layer of Humphry are present. Thus, in spinax six interbranchial muscles—the last or (sixth) being the muscle extending from the shoulder girdle to the last branchial arch (omozonio-branchialis), the latter not necessarily the morphological equivalent of one of the others—are present, united with the mesial layer or layer of the rectus (omozonio-hyoides); external interbranchial muscles, belonging to the external oblique layer, are present; in raia the external and internal muscles are present; in acipenser the former are wanting, and the sixth of the latter (omozonio-hyoides) gives evidence of separation into two muscles; in gadus all the external and the first two internal branchial muscles are absent, the sixth being divided into two separate muscles; in amphibia the first four inter- branchial muscles present variations—they are absent in tailless bat- rachians; the fifth and sixth have the following arrangements:—the latter being divided into two, one or other or both being persistent. The sixth dorsal interbranchial is present in siren, proteus, and menopoma— absent in menobranchus, cryptobranchus, anoura, and others. The sixth ventral internal interbranchia, with the fifth, is united in one muscle, the omohyoid—the posterior part of which is represented by the sixth, the anterior by the fifth, interbranchial muscle—in proteus, menopoma, and amphiuma, where both muscles join the sternohyoid; in crypto- branchus, where the anterior belly joins the sternohyoid; and in the tailless batrachians, where both bellies are free. The observations of Albrecht, as will be seen, serve to confirm those made by Humphry, as far as the continuation of the internal oblique layer forwards to the neck is concerned, and as the subject requires a reference to the views of the latter anatomist, I Shall here summarise them.a The internal oblique stratum represented by that muscle in the abdo- minal wall is continued to the thorax as the external intercostals, and here the ribs are developed in this stratum as well as the sternum and the limb girdles, and is continued into the neck, where the hyoid bone is developed also in this layer. In the abdomen, the internal oblique, the quadratus lumborum, rectus, and pyramidalis; in the thorax, the exter- nal intercostals, levatores costarum, rectus thoracis, rectus thoracis lateralis sternocostalis ; in the neck, the scaleni, rectus capitis lateralis, * Observations in Myology. P. 123.