356 ABNORMAL ARRANGEMENT OF THE THYROID ARTERIES. thyroid, which is directed to the lower border of the hyoid bone. The lower superior thyroid artery courses downwards and inwards to the thyroid body, beneath which it passes, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the right lobe. The inferior thyroid artery of the right side divides at a dis- tance of one inch and a quarter from its origin into two branches. The upper passes beneath the right lobe, and is dis- tributed to the posterior surface. The lower passes below the right lobe of the thyroid body, and is distributed to the lower and inner part of the gland. Cases in which two superior thyroid arteries are present must, as Gruber points out, be distinguished from those cases in which one or more arteries, commonly branches of the superior thyroid, are transferred to another arterial trunk. Thus, the superior laryngeal is known to arise from the external carotid and common carotid, and even from the lingual and ascending pharyngeal, and the muscular branches have been seen to arise from an independent trunk whilst the superior thyroid divided into two branches, laryngeal and thyroid (Meckel).1 In 292 cases Quain found three cases of double superior thyroid arteries, in two of these the superior laryngeal arose as a separate branch from the external carotid.2 In the case figured by Tiedemann, the two thyroid arteries came from the external carotid, the lower gave off the dorsalis lingual, the upper the superior laryngeal and sterno-mastoid branch.3 In Lauth’s case, also referred to by Gruber, the upper thyroid gave off the superior laryngeal. In Gruber’s case the upper, which he calls superior thyroid No. II., was derived from the lingual, the lower, called superior thyroid No. I., was derived from the external carotid. The instance here given differs, therefore, from the cases above referred to, in that the lower thyroid artery gives off the laryn- geal which, in the cases noted by Quain, Tiedemann, and Lauth, arose either as a separated artery from the external carotid or as a branch from the inferior. It differs, on the other hand, from Gruber’s case, in that the superior artery was, like the inferior, derived from the external carotid. 1 Gruber, Beobachtungcn aus der menschlichen und vergleichenden Anatomic, 2 Heft. 2 Quain, Arteries, p. 100. 3 Tiedemann, Tabula, vii. tig. 1.