ABNORMAL ARRANGEMENT OF TIIE THYROID ARTERIES. 355 a distance of three-quarters of an inch from its origin. The ascending pharyngeal arises from the posterior surface close to the preceding. The posterior auricular arises at a distance of one inch and a-lialf from the origin of the carotid. A lingual- facial trunk which arises from the carotid at the same distance from the origin as the occipital artery, and divides one quarter of an inch from the carotid into the lingual and facial branches. The superior thyroid, which is single, and arises from the common carotid near its termination, passes downwards and inwards, and divides opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage into two branches, which are distributed to the inner and outer parts of the anterior surface of the thyroid body. The superior laryngeal branch is given off by this artery at a distance of one inch from its origin, and passes inwards to the thyro- hyoid membrane. The inferior thyroid of the left side arises from the thyroid axis, and divides into two branches at a distance of two inches from its origin. The upper passes behind the left lobe, and is distributed to its posterior surface. The lower is distributed to the lower and inner part of the left lobe. The right external carotid gives off the following branches: —The occipital artery arises in common with the sterno- mastoid artery. Both arteries hook round the hypoglossal nerve. The ascending pharyngeal arises from the posterior part of the external carotid close to the occipital. The lingual and facial arteries have the usual disposition. Two superior thy- roids arise from the internal part of the external carotid. The upper superior thyroid, which is the larger, passes down- awards and inwards, and divides into two branches near the upper border of the thyroid cartilage; of these the inner passes beneath the sterno-hyoid and over the thyro-hyoid, then turns downwards over the thyroid body, and distributes branches to the inner part of the anterior surface and the isthmus, and gives off a erico-thyroid branch at the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The outer passes beneath the sterno-thyroid, and crosses the right lobe obliquely from above downwards and inwards, and distributes branches to the anterior surface, ex- ternal to the preceding, reaching as far as the lower third of the gland. A hyoid branch is given off by the upper superior