A VARIETY OF THE MYLOPHARYNGEUS AND OTHER UNUSUAL MUSCULAR ABNORMALITIES. By R. J. Anderson, M.D., Demonstrator of Anatomy, Queen's College, Belfast. In a Male Subject, on the left side of the body.—The portions of the superior constrictor attached to the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament (in great part) and the mouth and tongue are normal in their attachments. The part arising from the mylohyoid ridge (for the extent of one quarter of an inch), and from the maxillary extremity of the pterygo-maxil- lary ligament (for half an inch) form a band three-quarters of an inch wide, which passes downwards and backwards for one and a half inch. It is at first blended with the superior constrictor, but separates from it as a distinct band at the place of entrance of the stylo-pliaryngeus, and immediately divides into two parts. One of these, the larger, passes downwards and backwards, superficial to the middle constrictor; at first, interlacing with this muscle and afterwards becoming continuous with its fibres. The anterior longer and narrower than the preceding, but becom- ing broad at its insertion, is attached to the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage in a line with, but above the attachment of, the stylo-pharyngeus to the posterior border. The extent of the attachment of the muscle to the thyroid cartilage is three- quarters of an inch. In a Mcde Subject, in the right upper extremity.—The extensor carpi radialis longior arises from the ridge above the external con- dyle and terminates in three tendons below the middle of the forearm. The most internal tendon is inserted into the meta- carpal bone of the third finger, external to the attachment of the extensor carpi radialis brevior. The middle tendon is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone. The most external divides into two, of which the inner is inserted into the first metacarpal bone, and the outer gives attachment to a second slip of the abductor pollicis. The most internal portion of the muscle can be easily separated from the remainder as high as