DR K. J. ANDERSON. 354 passed upwards and inwards behind the common carotid as a single trunk, and divided beneath the thyroid body into two or more branches; or, secondly, it passed as a single trunk behind the common carotid, and divided between that artery and the thyroid body into two vessels, one of which (the superior) passed beneath the thyroid body and supplied the posterior and lateral part of the right lobe, and the other (inferior) passed inwards below the thyroid body, and distributed branches to the lower mesial part of the gland, or the inferior thyroid divided outside or behind the carotid, and the two branches passing behind the sheath were distributed as in the last case. In four cases the inferior thyroid divided internal to the carotid. In three cases it divided outside (two), or beneath the common carotid artery (one). In the remaining cases the artery remained as a single trunk, and passed as such beneath the thyroid gland. The condition of the inferior thyroid artery here noted differs from the third variety in that the second branch passed in front of the common carotid. An instance is on record when two inferior thyroid arteries were present, one of which passed in front of the common carotid.1 This case might be considered a variety of the fore- going, in which the division was transferred to the origin of the artery. The other arteries, it will be seen, arose as independent branches from the subclavian in place of the thyroid axis. A change in the relative position of the parts might be supposed to account for them, as well as other arterial abnormalities in connection with the thyroid gland. An arterial thyroidea ima is known to arise occasionally from the inferior thyroid artery (Gruber), and from the supra scapular (Nuhn and Gruber).2 The instances recorded of the latter variety resemble closely the instance above given, as the arteria thyroidea in these cases passed in front of the common carotid. II. The Superior Thyroid Artery. In a Female Subject.—The left common carotid divides op- posite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The external carotid gives off the following branches:—The occipital at 1 Quain, Arteries, p. 170. 2 Henle, Handbuch der Gefdsslehre, p. 265.