8 DR R. J. ANDERSON. neurotic origin, from the spines of the cervical vertebrae, lying close beneath the skin; it is broader at its origin than at its middle part, and passing obliquely behind and below the infe- rior maxillary articulation, it converges towards the muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the anterior extremity of the tongue bone. The protractor comes from the cartilaginous connection of the inferior maxillae, and mixes behind with the hyoglossal muscle; it is inserted into the internal inferior and external surfaces of the hyoid (cornu), and it surrounds the hyoglossus like a sheath. Between the anterior thirds of the cornua a triangular muscle, with the apex turned forwards, is present; it is thin and mem- braneous ; a decussation of the fibres has not been observed. A muscle comparable with the mylohyoid is present in Python b., which is united posteriorly with the cervico-maxillary muscle. It arises from the inner surface of the inferior max- illae, and is inserted into the outer part of the hyoid bone. The subcutaneous muscle joins it behind; at first a decussation of the fibres takes place, and then they become continuous. Meckel and Hubner regarded this muscle as the platysma; and the former anatomist gave it the name subcutaneous muscle of the neck. A muscle is found beneath the posterior depressor of the lower jaw; but farther back, and upon which the retractor of the os quadratum lies, may be regarded as a muscle of the hyoid bone. Its fibres mix with those of the preceding muscle anteriorly, of which it is the antagonist. It may be named the cervico-hyoid. A muscle arises with the geniohyoid (protractor), separates from that muscle, and is inserted into the air tube, which it draws forward. A muscle that draws back the larynx arises at the attachment of the geniohyoid and hyoglossus to the bone, close to and above the former, outside the latter, and is inserted into the thyroid cartilage. The lingualis arises from the hyoid bone posteriorly, and passing forwards joins its fellow of the opposite side in the median line at an acute angle, and by the anterior separation of these muscles the bifid tongue is produced.1 1 D’Alton, in Muller's Archiv, 1834.