4 Note on Apnoea and Heat Dyspnoea. object of obtaining the respiratory tracings on a rotating cylinder, and the head be pressed upon, the respirations immediately change in character—in fact, they become slower. If, however, the head be bent strongly forwards, complete cessation of the respirations as a rule results—in other cases, when a prolongation of the pause is observed, in a greater or less degree. The season of the year seems to have some influence on the result; for with rabbits, in the winter apnoea was much more prolonged than in the summer months. Division of the pneumogastric nerves does not affect the comparative results. When, however, the cerebrum is removed, no apnoea is produced by flexion of the head. When the lateral half of the medulla is divided the apnoea is less marked than when that structure is entire. It thus follows that the tension of the medulla oblongata produced by the forcible flexion of the head is the cause of the apnoea. It has been stated by some that the veins contain red blood in apnoea, but the colour of the blood varies according to the conditions under which apnoea is produced. In the experiments performed in the College of France the blood of the veins was distinctly redder, approaching the colour of arterial blood. Another fact of interest is that the temperature of the rectum is lowered by depression of the head. In experiments of this kind it is of the utmost importance that the trachea tube should be quite free, that no structures be injured which will produce convulsions or affect the character of the respi- rations unless in such a way as may be desired. The asphyxia superinduced by accidents of this kind will necessarily affect the result, but this occurs so rarely with care that it is sufficient to mention it.a HEAT DYSPNOEA. A paper appeared in the September (1879) number of the Journal of Physiology which contains some important facts with reference to heat dyspnoea. It is there shown that the experiments of Goldstein and Ackermann, though accurate, are susceptible of an explanation very different from that given by these observers. Dr. Sillier points out that the method of warming the blood adopted by Goldstein and Ackermann is imperfect, that the bath a Paper read before the Socidtd de Biologie, July 3, 1880. Archives of Scientific and Practical Medicine, p. 87. Prolongation extraordinaire des principaux actes de la vie aprbs la cessation de la respiration. Archives de Physiologie. 1878.