14 The Morphology of the Omohyoid Muscle. So far, then, as the omohyoid can be regarded as composed of a sternohyoid portion and a recto-scapular portion, the posterior belly is similar in its anterior connexions with the portion of the subclavius met with in phascolomys and orycteropus, which in these creatures is connected with the rectus or its expansion; and the similarity in the attachments of the muscles posteriorly I have already mentioned. The nervous supply of the two muscles is different, and is apparently an argument against the homology of the muscles, if there were no other; but the fact that the omohyoid is intimately connected with muscles supplied by the nerves in the tract of the descendens noni, and other instances, such as that of the levator anguli scapulae, and the serratus where the nervous supply is different, at least frequently—the former muscle, no doubt, sometimes receives a branch from the fifth ; but a branch from the third is a very constant nerve to this muscle—furnish reasons for this difference in nervous supply. The supraclavicularis, originally described by Professor Gruber, has an attachment at the inner and outer end of the clavicle. Tendinous at each extremity and fleshy at the middle, it has been considered by the anatomist who first described it as a tensor of the fascia, and by him regarded as the representative of the fibrous band which one sees occa- sionally above the clavicle giving attachment to the trapezius. The muscle occurred twice during the present session in the anatomical rooms, and in one case corresponded exactly Avith the description given by Gruber. This muscle was supplied in the case to which I refer by the descendens noni. A muscle such as this supplied by the descendens noni seems to show that it does not correspond to the fibrous band situated above the clavicle■, but must be regarded as a muscle of a deeper layer— namely, of the layer to which the depressors of the hyoid bone belong. It would more appropriately be referred to the fibrous band mentioned in one of the notes given above. Such a muscle, then, might be regarded as a portion of the internal oblique layer which lost its attachment to the sternohyoid band and acquired an external attachment to the clavicle at a place where a cleidohyoid muscle is sometimes found. That the muscle must be regarded in this light is, I think, shown by the folloAving variety, which, as far as I know, is new :— In a female subject, aged seventy-eight, on the left side of the head and neck the omohyoid is attached to the outer third of the clavicle for one inch, and is prolonged to the upper border of the scapula where it is attached to the ligament over the notch, as also to the bone. Arising in this way the omohyoid passes it upwards, and is inserted into the hyoid bone. A faint line which extended transversely across the muscle indicated the line of division of the muscle into tAvo parts. The sub- clavius on this side has a slight attachment to the clavicle externally (half an inch). It is, hoAvever, attached b a slip to the coracoid process,