Respiratory Excitation and, Depression. 4 same nerves contain different fibres that are destined for the mucous membrane of the air-passages. T1 le lung substance and certain respiratory muscles are supplied with ganglia, which confer upon them a certain degree of independent action. Kollikera found ganglia in the lung substance—a fact that has been confirmed by other observers ; and in connexion with the distribution of the right phrenic nerve Luschkab pointed out the existence of the phrenic ganglion. The experiments of Brown-Sdquard with reference to the rhythmical contractions of the diaphragm and other muscles showed that these ganglia are not without their use.c The connexion that exists between the terminations of sensory nerves distributed to the air-passages and to various other parts of the body with the motor apparatus of the chest and abdomen causes the latter to respond to stimuli applied to the former, and section of nerves by which the centres are deprived of existing stimuli produces a change in the character of the respiration. The effect of cold applied to the external surface in adults and children is an often-mentioned illustration of the effect of a stimulus applied to the peripheral extremities of sensory nerves, and irritation of the peri- pheral endings of the fifth and other nerves in the air-passages is sufficiently conclusive. The excitation of a sensory nerve was shown by Schiff to produce an increase in the number of respirations, provided such stimulus be moderate. If, however, the stimulus be strong, a diminution takes place, and inspiration tetanus may result. Division of the vagi increases the depth and diminishes the number of the respirations (Fig. 1), whilst stimulation of the central cut extremity increases the number, and, if strong, will give rise to inspiration tetanus; the rhythmically active agents in expiration in this case become quiescent. The power of a reflex stimulus was found to affect the muscles of inspiration in the same order as increasing dyspnoea—viz., the diaphragm, the external intercostals, the intercartilaginous muscles, levatores costarum, scaleni, and serratus posticus (Traube).d The agents that were rhythmically contractile before became quiescent during the stimulation. Stimulation of the superior laryngeal nerve, if moderate, diminishes the number of the respirations; if strong, it produces expiration tetanus. Thus, in one of Rosenthal’s experiments, with a moderate current (coils 200 mm. distant), the diaphragm was quiescent, the thorax remained in the position of rest, no muscle contracted, and the thyroid cartilage moved quickly up and down. With a stronger stimulation (coils 160 mm. dis- “ Microscopische Anatomie. b Anatomie des Mensclien. I., 2, 218. c Jrl. d. 1. Physiologie. Tome II., p. 115. d Rosenthal. Die Athembewegungen u. ikre Beziehungen zum Nervus Vagus, p. 182.