6 DR R. J. ANDERSON. seem to show that the latter are developed from the differen- tiated inner layer of the digestive tube, and in the same set may be placed the palato-glossus. The normal attachments of the middle constrictor to the hyoid bone and its styloid connection, together with its occasional attachment by a slip to the inferior maxilla, seem to show that this muscle may be considered as derived from the same pharyngeal differentiated mesoblast layer, as the styloglossus and hyoglossus and inferior lingualis. The interchange of fibres, and their variation of attachment, point in the same direction. The superficial lingual muscle is probably developed from the covering of epiderm, and is comparable with the subcutaneous muscles of other regions. The nervous supply of the parts bears out generally the homology. The muscles are supplied in one case by the hypo- glossal, in the other by the spinal accessory through the vagus. These nerves may be both regarded as spinal nerves, or as parts of a fourth cranial nerve, of which the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus represent the anterior divisions.1 The mucous membrane of the tongue is in great part supplied by the fifth, as it is derived from a region supplied by that nerve. The nervous supply of muscles above the level of the distribution of the first mentioned nerves receive the facial or fifth in accordance for the most part with the early distribution of these nerves to the second and first arches. These nerves may be considered as representing a third cranial nerve, of which the greater part of the third represents the sensory part. The fact that the stylo- glossus receives a branch, sometimes from the digastric branch of the facial, is interesting, when the supply of the other styloid muscles is taken account of. The vertical lingual fibres, which are not included in the above account, are considered by many as detached portions of the genioglossi, whilst others deny their existence as separate fibres. The muscles of the tongue have been examined by Meckel2 in the various animal classes, and the following represents the general condition as given by him:— 1 Gegenbaur’s Anatomy, p. 700, et seq. Krause, Allgemcine und microscopische Anatomie, p. 403. Krause, Anatomische Varietdtcn. 2 Anatomic, B. iv.