PRESENCE OF AN ASTRAGALO-SCAPHOID BONE IN MAN. 3 part of the external cuneiform. The articular surface of the internal cuneiform is deeply concave, the posterior articular surface of the middle and external cuneiform much less so. The articular facet of the cuboid is concave, and separated by a ridse from the articular facet for the external cuneiform. Almost the entire external surface of the cuboid is therefore articular. The cuneiform, cuboid, metatarsal, and phalangeal bones present the usual characters. The left foot possesses likewise six tarsal bones, the astragalus and scaphoid having coalesced to form a single bone. The general characters are those of the astragalus and scaphoid united, with such slight deviations from the form as exist in the right lower extremity. No line of division, however, shows a trace of a previous separation into two bones, and no external signs of any pathological changes are present. A section of the left astragalo-scaphoid made from before backwards shows that the cancellous tissue resembles that of the astragalus. An increase or diminution in the number of bones in the carpus and tarsus, though somewhat unusual, has been observed by several anatomists. In the carpus nine bones have been observed, the place of the scaphoid has been occupied by two bones, the semilunar has been replaced by two, an anterior and a posterior (Smith), and the internal cuneiform in the foot by two. A ninth bone is stated by Meckel to exist sometimes between the os magnum and the trapezoid.1 The radial portion of the scaphoid may be regarded as a radial scaphoid, an os centrale, or as a portion of the scaphoid which represents the os centrale. In the hand the cuboid and semilunar have been found united (R. Wagner) ;2 in the foot the calcaneum and cuboid, calcaneum and scaphoid, and second and third cuneiform bones. Bones of the sesamoid variety are occasionally found3 in connection with the carpus and tarsus, and the styloid process of the third 1 Humphry, A Treatise on the Human Skeleton, p. 80. 2 Heusinger’s Zdtschrift. t. iii. p. 300. Referred to by Professor Humphry in op. cit. 3 Humphry, op. cit. p. 80.