PRESENCE OF AN ASTRAGALO-SCAPHOID BONE IN MAN. 2 and two lines from before backwards. This articulates with the facet on the upper surface of the sustentaculum tali. In front of the rough depression is the lower surface of the head, which is broader from side to side than from before backwards. The surface is flat. The upper surface of the head of the astragalo- scaphoid is convex from side to side and rough. The inner surface is rough and non-articular; the outer surface possesses a facet for articulation with the cuboid. This facet encroaches upon the inferior surface. The inferior surface is partly arti- cular and partly non-articular. The inner two-thirds is rough and non-articular, the outer third is articular and is occu- pied by the facet for the cuboid. The anterior surface is articular and has three facets, each wider above than below. Bidges separate these facets one from the other and the outer facet from that for the cuboid. The anterior surface is convex from side to side and from above downwards, and has a small non-articular part near the middle of the lower border. Thus the long diameter of the anterior articular surface is from side to side, the short diameter from above downwards, its inferior border convex, its lower border slightly concave. The outer extremity of the head is thicker than the inner. The os calcis does not differ much from the ordinary condi- tion of this bone. The upper surface is partly articular and partly non-articular. The large posterior facet for the astra- galus is convex from before backwards and from within outwards. In front of this surface is a rough depression which is narrow internally and behind, and so wide externally as to occupy the whole of the anterior portion of the upper surface. This surface gives attachment to the interosseous ligament posteriorly. Surmounting the sustentaculum tali is a facet which articulates with a corresponding facet on the astragalus. This facet is separated from the large posterior facet on the upper surface by a groove. The anterior surface is double curved, and articulates with the cuboid. The remaining surfaces present no features of interest. The head of the astragalo-scaphoid is received into a cavity formed by the three cuneiform and the cuboid. The articular surface on the inner part of the latter bone is large, and is placed edge to edge with the articular facet on the posterior