DR R. J. ANDERSON. 358 the upper third of the forearm, hut is distinct from the extensor carpi radialis brevior. The insertion of an extensor carpi radialis accessorius was described by Mr Wood, and is noted in the list of abnormalities given by Professor Macalister.1 The muscle described above may be regarded as an extensor carpi radialis longior (having a tendon of insertion into the third metacarpal bone) and an exten- sor carpi radialis accessorius (Wood) combined. In a Female Subject, in the left loiver extremity.—The plantaris is one inch in width at its origin. It arises from the inner part of the posterior ligament and from the inner tendon of origin of the gastrocnemius. The muscular belly terminates in a tendon which passes downwards between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and is attached to the inner part of the tendo achilles. In a Female Subject, on the right upper extremity.—The extensor indicis, which is normal in its origin, terminates in three tendons, of which the inner is inserted into the dorsal expansion of the third finger, and the two outer are inserted into the expansion on the dorsum of the second finger. Cases are recorded where the muscle was inserted into the second and third, and into the second, third, and fourthl (Meckel).2 The double insertion into the second finger, with an insertion into the third flexor, seems unusual. In a Male Subject, in the left lower extremity.—The jlexo- brevis digitorum is normal in position and relation. A muscular slip, continuous behind with the muscular belly of the short flexor, terminates anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted into the internal cuneiform by two slips. One slip at the outer and the other at the inner side of the flexor brevis pollicis. The attachments of this muscle are of interest when viewed in connection with the radio carpus. The latter muscle has been seen in close relation with the flexor sublimis digitorum at its origin, and is inserted sometimes into the trapezium. In a Male Subject, in the right upper extremity.—The muscles of the forearm are normal. A palmaris longus and a palmaris brevis are present. A radio carpus is present, which is attached to the lower part of the oblique bone of the radius contiguous to 1 “Muscular Anomalies in Human Anatomy,” Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., vol. xxv. 2 Macalister, op. cit. p. 106.