10 Respiratory Excitation and Depression. time very bright,” and the heart beating regularly; there was no respira- tory movement11 (Sanderson). Apncea can be induced by forcing air into the lung by a series of blasts (60 or more in the minute). The air escapes from the chest after each insufflation, by an aperture in the canula. The duration of the apnoea is influenced by the duration of the arti- ficial respiration that has preceded it. I have frequently obtained apnoea for 15 seconds in dogs by employ- ing artificial respiration for one minute, and apnoea for 25-30 seconds by artificial respiration of two minutes’ duration. By prolonged artificial respiration, however, apnoea may be obtained for two minutes (Cyon,b Pfliigerc), or even for five minutes (Rosenthal). Ewald, by artificial respiration for half an hour in a dog, obtained apnoea for half a minute to a minute and a half. This was followed by one or two superficial inspiratory actions, which were succeeded by a pause; after ten minutes normal respiration was established. In considering the causes of apnoea, it is necessary to take account of the condition of the blood during the cessation of respiration, and the nature and action of the force employed. Ewald found that the oxygen in the blood was slightly increased, and the carbonic acid distinctly diminished. d In one of his experiments (Versuch 4, Serie II.) the arte- rial blood was a brighter red during apnoea than before it. Pfliiger found that the amount of oxygen taken up during artificial respiration was sometimes greater and sometimes less than normal—the amount of carbonic acid given out greater. Finkler and Oertmann showed that the amount of oxygen in the blood depends on the force used—anything that diminished rapidly the circulation diminishes the oxygen—and that whilst at the beginning the amount of oxygen taken up is apparently less, and the amount of carbonic acid given out is greater, the reverse held after the cessation of the artificial respiration. They further showed that the colour of the venous blood depends on the character of the arti- ficial respiration and the energy of the heart’s action. e The respiratory centres thus lose any stimulus due to the diminution of oxygen or the increase of carbonic acid; quiescence in the active respiratory agents is the result. It is necessary to take a glance at the effects produced in an animal by breathing pure oxygen. Several observers have directed their atten- tion to this subject. Professor Redfern prepared pure oxygen from peroxide of manganese. The gas was purified by means of lime-water a Handbook for the Physiological Laboratory. P. 318. b Op. cit., p. 256. c Archiv. B. I., p. 256. Inaugural Dissertation, 1873; and Pfliiger’s Archiv. 1873. P. 575. e Pfliiger’s Archiv. 1877.