By Dr. R. J. Anderson. 15 and by a band to the upper border to the scapula beneath the omohyoid. The arrangement resembles that of Bohmer’s case, cited by Professor Macalister. On the right side a sternoscapular muscle arises from the posterior surface of the sternum in this way :—From the anterior surface of the tendon of origin of the sternothyroid tendinous fibres are prolonged upwards and outwards. These are reinforced by fibres arising from the anterior surface of the sternothyroid, and which have a transverse direc- tion above the tendon and below the tendinous intersection of the same muscle. From the band so formed external to the sternothyroid a muscular belly arises, which passes outwards above the clavicle over the subclavian artery and brachial plexus, and terminates in a tendon two inches and a half long, which is inserted into the upper border of the scapula and ligament over the notch for the extent of one inch. A small band passes down to the outer third of the clavicle, and a portion of the fibres is continued into the supraspinatus fascia. The breadth of the tendon of origin is one inch and a quarterthe breadth of the muscle about four lines. The omohyoid has a slight origin from the upper border of the scapula, but is attached to the upper border of the outer tendon of the sternoscapular muscle for its whole length. The muscle passes upwards and inwards to. the hyoid bone, and is connected with that muscle so closely, three inches below its insertion, that it cannot be easily separated. Below the point of union a muscular fasciculus from the omohyoid joins the sternohyoid. A tendinous inscription is present above the middle of the omohyoid, oblique in direction, and very faint. The sternoscapular muscle is supplied by a branch of the descendens noni which enters the muscle near its inner tendon. The sternohyoid of the right side has only a clavicular origin, so that; in reality, it is not properly designated by • this name. On the left side the muscle lias both a clavicular and sternocostal attachment. This muscle has much in common with the suprascapularis proprius and the retro-clavicularis, and I think these two muscles may be consi- dered varieties of the foregoing. Dr. Macalister has already stated as his opinion that the muscle described by Mr. Lawson Tait is to be regarded as a variety of the suprascapularis. To the same set the sterno- humeral muscle of Gruber may with justice be referred. The position of the supraclavicular nerves in this case seems at first sight to show that the sternoclavicular muscle has a significance different from the supraclavicularis, for in Prof. Gruber’s example and the two instances referred to, these nerves passed beneath, whilst the same nerves passed in front of the sternoscapularis; but this objection loses its importance when we consider that the descending nerves of the cervical plexus sometimes pierce the clavicular origin of the omohyoid or even the clavicle, or may pass under a tendinous arch into which the latter