Compl^4 hy.-:.- illiiKGT8SS133A MANUAL GELHTINE FOR USE WITH Sparkiing Gelatine A PERPETUAL FEAST OF NECTAR^D SWEETS •MILTON Compiled by BERTHA ROBERTS, L.C.A Aitn0oriaiu preTatorp notes. issuing the fifth and further enlarged Edition of this jf Work, I should like to acknoAvledge the. kind help re- Y ceived from Miss Lizzie Heritage, M.C.A., who has taken rnuch interest in the book, and has contributed a few additional recipes. The recipes in this book are specially prepared for use with Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, and the quantities have been carefully computed with this in view. To ensure success and avoid disappointment, this make should be insisted upon. It has enjoyed world-wide celebrity for the greater part of a century. In framing recipes for Gelatine it is extremely difficult to give exact quantities, as this article is greatly influenced hy temperature. An amount that will just set a mould in mild weather will make \\,far too flrni in winter. The quantities of Gelatine given in the following recipes are best suited to the average temperature of England, but a great deal must be left to the discretion of the cook, who will add more Gelatine or use less liquid in warm weather, or when ice or cold storage is not available. It is always advisable to set Clear Jellies (such as Ilecipes 1 and 3) in ice. Two or three lbs. are sufficient to set a large mould. Where ice cannot be had, add a good handful of coarse salt to a quart of cold water, and place the mould in it. Kenew the water if required. Keep out the rays of the sun during the setting. In recipes where half- a-pint of Cream is among the ingredients, the ordinary jar of cream, sold cheaply by all provision merchants, will be found to be quite sufficient. Milk may be added to make up the half-pint in winter, to prevent the mould being too stiff. In all moulds where Brandy or Essences are used in flavouring, do not add until the mixture is removed from the fire, or much of the strength will be lost. In recipes where the fldce of one or more Oranges or Lemons is an item, the amount of sugar given is to be regarded as approximate. Allowance shqulcl be rnade for individual tastes, as Avel! as for variation in the fruits, both in size and degree of acidity. Dishes over-sweetened are more troublesome to set and to turn out than those prepared with an average amount of sugar. B. E.Hints on Successful Jelly Making. make a perfectly clear jelly, firm, yet apparently almost trembling to its fall, it is only necessary that ^ care and a little trouble should be taken. If the directions below are faithfully carried out with Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine the result will be all that can be desired. Always use good sugar. To ensure the best results, get pure refined cane sugar, obtainable through any good grocer. Cut the rind of the lemons thinly, otherwise your jelly will have a bitter taste. To get the greatest amount of juice from the lemons in the shortest space of time, a glass lemon squeezer should be used. ■V\Tien clearing uith eggs, boil up slowly, as by this means the jelly vdll be cleared more effectually. Set aside to simmer very gently almost directly the jelly boils, or the Gelatine will lose some of its strength. Egg shells should be first washed in salt and Avatei\ To Stra.in.—Tie a clean coarse cloth, scalded, into a soup-stand or legs of a chair reversed. Pour the jelly through slowly until clear, each time placing a clean hot basin under- neath instead of the one removed. With Cox’s Gelatine, if that which runs through quickly at first is returned through the cloth at once, it Avill be found that one .straining gives a perfect result. The jelly must take its own time to run through, and must on no account be squeezed, stirred, or shaken, or it will immediately become cloudy. Whilst straining, stand the jelly in a warm place, for if at all chilled it will soon cease to run through the cloth. In straining, natnrallj' some of the liquid is lost, so that to4 obtain a full-sized quart mould three pints of liquid should first be prepared. Everything used must be free from grease, and the cloth kept for the one purpose. Never use soap in washing it, and put it away when quite dry, not before. Never stir the jelly after it boils, as the scum on the top must not be broken. Wait until the jelly is begiwiing to set a little before pouring into the mould. Be careful to rinse the jelly mould in cold water just before pouring in the jelly. In Macedoines, or fruit jellies, more Gelatine must be used, as a firmer jelly is required to bear the weight of the fruit. The larger the mould, the more Gelatine is required in proportion. When wine is added to jellies, it is well to boil up wth the other ingredients, as, if added after, it tends to cloud the jelly. Brandy and Essences, when recommended, are better added after. In turning out jellies, creams, &c., immerse the mould qxdcJtly in hot water, dry it with a cloth, and turn out on to a cold dish. If the water is very hot, it is less likely to cause breakage than tepid water (often recommended) with necessary patting and shaking. All dishes of this class should be sent to table at the last moment, and not allowed to stand in a warm room, this being fatal to appearance and flavour, as the colder they are the better. Metal Moulds are best for general use; either copper, or block tin with copper tops. B. R.6 INDEX SECTIONSPAGE JELLIES 7 BLAUCHAUGES 17 CREAMS, PUDDINGS, SPONGES, TRIFLES, Etc. 19 SAVOURIES AND ASPIC JELLIES 47 INVALID RECIPES— Satoubies 52 Sweets 55 LIST OF RECIPES No. Almond Blancmange 35 Amber Jelly 145 Apple Jelly 8 Apples in Jelly 18 Apple Charlotte 96 Apple Flummery 97 Apricot Mould 20 Apricot Cream 66 Apricot Cream (economic) 54 Aspic Jelly 118 Aspic Jelly (for decoration) ... 121 Banana Cream 51 Banana Russe 38 Bavarian Cream 55 Bavaroise 149 Beef Tea Jelly 134 Blackberry Jelly 13 Blancmange (plain) 29 Blancmange (with condensed milk) 31 Blancmange (with wine flavour- ing) 32 Blancmange (gelatine and cornflour) 33 Border Mould, How to Dispense with 26 Brown Bread Cream 148 Breakfast Pate 131 Caramel Charlotte 40 Chartreuse of Grapes 17 Charlotte Russe 36 Champagne Jelly 6 Cherry Cream Pudding 65 Chestnut Cream 76 No. Cheese and Aspic Savoury 119 Chicken in Jelly 125 Chicken Jellied.. 132 Chocolate Charlotte Russe 37 Chocolate Cream 43 Chocolate Mould 104 Chocolate Mould (small) 74 Claret Jelly 4 Cotherstone Cream 61 Coffee Jelly 9 Coffee Cream 50 Cocoanut Rice Moulds 69 Coburg Pudding 89 Dalmeny Moulds 68 Damson Meringue 114 Edinburgh Cream 72 Eggs in Aspic Jelly 124 Egg Jelly 143 Fig Cream 70 Figs a la Violet 116 Fish Sauce (tasty) 141 Fruit Macedoine i la Trifle 24 Fruit Salad (summer)... 23 Frutus Blancmange 30 Garnish (very effective) No. 1... 127 Garnish (very effective) No. 2... 128 Gateau deP runes 115 Gelatine and Cornflour Cream... 64 Ginger Cream 44 Glaze 122 Gloucester Jelly 146 Gooseberry Cream 60 Gold Leaf Jelly 12 Grape Jelly 144 Gravy (jellied for raised pies)... 129 Gravy Soup (economical and simple) 130 Greengage Pudding il la Corona 117 Honeycomb Pudding 101 Italian Cream 47 Jelly (and cream) Leaves tor De- coration 27 Jelly (whipped for decoration) 28IN D EX— Continued. Kimberley Mould Klondyke Mould Lemon Jelly Lemon Jelly (economical) Lemon Cream Lemon Sponge Lemon Diplomatic Pudding ... Lemon Jelly and Cornflour Mould Lemon Blancmange Lemon Creams (for invalids) ... Macedoine of Winter Fresh Fruits Mafeking Creams Marsala Pudding Mask with Jelly, etc Maraschino Jelly Messina Souffle Meringues S. la Frutus Meat Jelly with Vermicelli Meat and Egg Soup Mixed Fruit Charlotte Mock Ice Pudding Napoleon Pudding (cold) New Century Trifle New Century Cream Nesselrode Bavaroise Orange Charlotte Orange Cream Orange Custard Pudding Orange Jelly Orange Pudding Orange Sponge Peach Cream Peach Snow Peach Sponge Pears (moulded) Pear Sponge Pheasant Puree Pheasant in Aspic Pineapple Charlotte No. Pineapple Cream 67 Pineapple Jelly 10 Pineapple Snow 81 Pistachio Cream 58 Port Wine Jelly 142 Princess Cream 56 Prince’s Pudding or Cold Soiiffle 86 Prune Mould 15 Pudding Sauces (digestible) 150 Queen Mab Pudding 94 Raspberry Cream 49 Ratafia Cream 46 Raw Beef Sandwiches 140 Rhubarb Jelly 11 Rhubarb Charlotte 95 Ribbon Jelly 19 Rice Cream 67 Rice Mould with stewed Fruit 100 Riz a rimperatrice 91 Russian Charlotte 63 Savoury Jelly... 120 Strawberry Charlotte 39 Strawberry Cream 62 Strawberry Jelly (decorated) ... 21 Stravi berry Moulds (small) 73 Spanish Jelly 103 Stone Cream 59 Stock (very useful) 137 Tipsy Pineapple H3 Tomato Jelly 126 Trifle a la Metz HI United Kingdom Pudding 112 Vanilla Cream 53 Veal Cake 123 Velvet Cream 48 Vermicelli Soup 135 Victoria Pudding 87 Whipped Madeira Jelly a la Russe 16 Whipped Cream (imitation) 78 Wine Jelly 3 No. 92 98 1 2 71 79 85 99 34 147 14 75 88 25 7 105 110 136 138 108 90 107 109 77 106 41 52 102 6 93 80 45 82 83 22 84 139 133 42A 6d. packet of Cox's Q latias contains ozs.; but for perfect results. Gelatine and all other Inzredieats should be weighed, A very useful household balance Is Issued by J. & Q. Cox, Ltd., at a popular price. (See end of book). When essences are recommended Cox’s Wanda brand may be relied upon for uniformity and general excellence. Cox'S Sparkling 6elatlno SELECTED RECIPES. Soak the Gelatine in the Water for about ten minutes, then put all the prepared ingredients into a saucepan together over a slow fire. Whisk until it begins to boil, allow to boil up well without stirring, and then simmer for another ten minutes or more. A few drops of Maraschino added whilst the jelly is simmering is a great improvement. Strain through a clean scalded cloth. Return through the cloth until clear, each time putting a basin rinsed with hot water underneath. V/hen clear, set in a mould rinsed with cold water, and let it stand until firm. It is recommended that this Jelly should be set in ice. To serve, dip the mould for one moment into hot water, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. (Consult “ Hints on Successful Jelly Making,” see page 3.) (1) LEMON JELLY. to 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. I inch Cinnamon. 3 Cloves. The rinds of 4 Lemons thinly (according to temperature.) 15 pints Cold Water. 5 pint Lemon Juice. 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. cut. The white of i Egg whisked. The shell crushed. (2) LEMON JELLY (Economical). li ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. i inch Cii 2 large Lemons (peeled thinly 3 Cloves. and strained juice), ozs. Loaf-Sugar. I inch Cinnamon. 11 pints Water. A few drops of Cox’s Hquid Saffron.Put the Gelatine into a basin, and pour over it some of the cold water and allow it to soak for ten minutes. Then add the rest of the ingredients except the saffron. Place on the fire and stir until it boils, colour with a little liquid saffron, and strain through a cloth scalded. Pour into a wetted mould, and allow to set in a very cool place. Though above recipe {No. 2) for an ttncleabed Lemon Jelly is included in this booh, the thrifty housemfe will probably prefer to use one of Cox’s Elfin Tablet Jellies, which an-e delicately Jl/imoured in great vao’iety, and simply require the addition of water. Neither a Tablet Jelly nor recipe No. 2 can, however, tahe the place of the delicious jellies prepared by recipes Nos. 1 and 3. (3) WINE JELLY. 11 to 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. pints Cold Water. 5 pint of Sherry, Madeira, or Marsala. ^ pint Lemon juice. 5 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 2 Cloves I inch Cinnamon. The rinds of 2 Lemons thinly cut. The white of i Egg whisked The shell crushed. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and then put all the prepared Ingredients into a saucepan over a slow fire, and whisk it until it begins to boil. Allow it to boil up well (about ten minutes), and then simmer for another ten minutes or more without stirring. Strain through a clean scalded cloth. Return through the cloth until clear, each time putting a basin rinsed with hot water underneath. When clear, set in a mould rinsed with cold water, and let it stand until firm. It is recom- mended that this Jelly should be set in ice. Turn out and serve. With first-class Sherry or Madeira, it is safe to add it after straining the rest; or it may be added at the moment of straining, as by boiling some of the flavour is lost. (4) CLARET JELLY (Exceptionally good). 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Claret. 4 pint Water. Rind and Juice of i Lemon. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. I gill of Raspberry Jam or Syrup from Fresh Fruit. 4 ozs. Sugar. 1 clove and ^ inch Cinnamon, or I tablespoonful of Brand3L Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients together into an enamelled saucepan. Whisk until it boils up well ; let simmer ten minutes. Colour with the cochi- neal, and strain through a coarse cloth scalded. Pour into a jelly mould rinsed in cold water, and allow to set in a verj' cool place. If preferred, pour into a border mould and serve with whipped cream in the centre.0 (5) ORANGE JELLY. i oz. Cox’s Gei_\tine. 3 02s. Loaf Sugar. 5 pint Orange Juice. Juice of i Lemon. I pint Water. Rind of 2 Oranges thinl3'^ cut. Put the Gelatine into the water and soak for ten minutes. Add the thinly cut orange rind and sugar, and bring to the boil. Take off the fire, and let this stand by the side to extract the flavour. Put the orange and lemon juice into a basin, and strain the dissolved mixture into them. Pour into a mould rinsed in cold water. This Jell3’ is never cleared, as it spoils the flavour. It should be bright and transparent, but not quite clear. Some sections of orange, freed from skin and pith, may be used for garnishing the top of the mould. By bringing the juice just to the boil, and pouring through clean muslin, together with the dis- solved Gelatine, the Jelly is lather clearer. (6) CHAMPAGNE JELLY. 2^ to 3 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. I quart Water. 10 oz. Lump Sugar, i pint Sherry. 1 pint Champagne. 2 Cloves, I inch Cinnamon. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about teu minutes, and then place over a slow fire with the other ingredients. Whisk until it ’Doils up well, move to the side of the stove, add i tablespoonful of cold water, and let simmer very gently for another ten minutes. Strain through a clean scalded cloth until clear, and pour into a wetted mould and let set on ice. Turn out and serve. (7) MARASCHINO JELLY. 2A ozs. Cox’s Sparkling Gela- 10 ozs. Lump Sugar. TINE. Strained juice of i Orange. i pint Maraschino. Thinly cut rinds and strained i pint Pale Sherry. juice of 2 Lemons. 1 quart Water. 2 Cloves. The white of I Egg whishd. i inch Cinnamon. The shell crushed. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and the put all the prepared ingredients into a saucepan together. Place over a slow fire ; whisk until it begins to boil; allow to boil up well without stirring, and move the pan to the side of the stove. Add 1 ^blespoonful of cold water, and simmer gently for another ten minutes or more. Strain through a clean scalded cloth until clear. Pour into a wetted mould and set on ice. Turn out and serve. (8) APPLE JELLY. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I lb. Apples, l Lemon Kind and Juice i pint Water. 3 ozH. Ca.stor Sugar. Strained Juice of 1 Orange. .Strained Juice and thinly cut rinds of 2 Lemons. Whisked white of i Egg. The shell crushed.10 Put the Gelatine to dissolve in sufficient water to cover it. Peel and slice the apples, put, with the remainder of the water, the thinly cut lemon rind, juice, and the sugar, into a saucepan, and cook until apples are tender; then rub through a hair sieve. Dis- solve the Gelatine over the fire and strain it into the apple mixture, then set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn into a dish and serve. Rhubarb and Gooseberry Jelly can be made in the same way, adding more sugar if necessary. Decorate, if liked, with blanched almonds, and serve v/ith a custard round. If half the rtiixture is coloured with Cox's Cochineal, the Jelly is improved. With very juicy apples, use rather less water. (9) COFFEE JELLY. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 teaspoonful of Brandy. I pint Water. I Egg, white whisked and shell crushed. I gill of Strong Coffee or half a gill of Coffee Essence with water to make up the gill. 3 ozs. Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in the cold water for ten minutes. Then put all the ingredients together in a stewpan. Stand it over the fire and whisk until it boils, then allow to simmer for twenty minutes. Strain through a clean coarse cloth scalded, and add the brandy. When it is beginning to set pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla. (10) PINEAPPLE JELLY. 1 quart tin pineapple. Whisked white and crushed 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. shell of i Egg. f oz. Cox’s Gel.^tine. Thinly cut rind and juice of i Lemon. Soak the Gelatine in the juice of the pineapple (made up with water to half pint) for about ten minutes. Cut the pineapple into small pieces and simmer in half pint of water for twenty minutes. Add the rest of the ingredients and let it boil up, then set aside where it will keep hot, but not boil, for twenty minutes. Strain through a clean coarse cloth scalded, and mould. A tablespoonful of rum improves this. (11) RHUBARB JELLY. I lb. Rhubarb. ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. i gill of cold Water. A little Lemon Rind. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Soak the Gelatine in the cold water for about ten minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Wipe the rhubarb with a damp cloth and cut into short lengths. Stew until quite tender with the sugar and lemon rind, and remove the latter when the fruit is cooked. Pass through a hair sieve, add the dissolved Gelatine, make up the mixture to a quart, add a few drops of cochineal, mix well and pour into a plain or decorated mould. Set aside until firm. Turn out and serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream.11 (12) GOLD LEAF JELLY. I quart of Jelly as per Recipe i or 3. 6 to 8 Gold Leaves (when buying state for culinary purposes, as Gold Leaf should be pure). Mould the Jelly in the usual manner, and place the mould on ice in the coolest place available, put in the gold leaves and stir with a fork until the jelly begins to set, and the leaves are broken up and evenly distributed in the jelly. Set aside until firm, and serve. (13) BLACKBERRY JELLY. I lb. Blackberries. From 4 to 6 ozs. Castor Sugar, i pint water, adding more as f ox. Cox's Gelatine. required. Lemon Juice to taste and flavour. Soak the Gelatine in I gill of water. Put the blackberries on the fire with the other 2 gills of water pint) and the sugar. Boil all till very tender. As water bods away add more. Rub all through a AiJiVsiVye into a basin. Dissolve Gelatine over the fire, stirring all the time slightly. Add it to the pur6e of blackberries. Add lemon juice. Stir well and set in a mould, either enamel or china. When firm, turn out and serve. (14) MACEDOINE OF WINTER FRESH FRUITS. . I quart of Jelly, as per Recipe l Tangerine. No. I or 3, using a little more j lb. Black Grapes. Gelatine. ^Ib. White Grapes. I large sweet Orange. 2 Bananas. Pour a little jelly into a mould, then place a layer of grapes and let set, then another layer of grapes with jelly to set them, then a layer of bananas, then tangerine orange, then bananas, and lastly quarters of orange, setting each layer with jelly until the mould is full, and keeping the heavier fruit until the last. Any fresh fruits may be used for this mould, or bottled fruits when these are not available. (15) PRUNE MOULD. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Juice of half a Lemon. I pint Water. ^ glass Port Wine or Brandy. ^ lb. Prunes. 2 ozs. Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Soak the Gelatine in a gill of the water, soak the Prunes in the rest, for a fe%v hour.><, then remove the stones and simmer till soft; add the di.ssolved Gelatine and other ingredients, and boil gently for te.n minutes more. The kernels cracked, and added, are a gp"eat improvement. Mould as usual. Turn out and serve with whipped cream. A border mould is best. (16) WHIPPED MADEIRA JELLY li LA RU88E. I 02. Cox's Gelatine. 4 pint Madeira Wine. 3 ozs. Lump Sugar. Strained juice and thinly peeled I pint Water. rind of i Lemon.Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then place it in a stewpan with the sugar and lemon, and stir over the fire tin dissolved. Strain into a basin and when cold add the Madeira v.^ine. Whisk the preparation until it begins to thicken and looks like snow. Pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. If preferred, this can be piled on a dish and served at once without moulding. In this case it should be whisked a little longer, as the mixture needs to be ratber firmer. ^ lb White Grapes. I tablespoonful Cox’s Gelatine. I gill whipped Cream, slightly sweetened with Castor Sugar. (17) CHARTREUSE OF GRAPES. iij- pints of Jelly, as per Recipe No, I or 3, using oz. more Gelatine, except in very cold weather. ^ lb. Black Grapes, Dissolve the tablespoonful of Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it, and when cool mix with the sweetened cream. Pour about two inches of jelly into a plain mould, and when beginning to set line with alternate layers of the black and white grapes, cover them with jelly, and let set. Now place a small bottle, which has been previously rinsed in cold water, on tbe top, in the centre ot the mould, put a spoonful of jelly round and the layers of grapes, adding jelly to set them until the mould is full. When quite firm pour hot water into the bottle and remove from the jelly. Fill up the space thus made with the cream and dissolved Gelatine. When firm turn out quickly on to a cold dish and serve. Chartreuse of strawberries, bananas, or other fresh ripe fruits can be prepared in the same manner. (18) APPLES IN JELLY. 3 ozs. Sugar. i Lemon rind and juice. 5 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Water. 6 large Juicy Apples. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Soak the Gelatine in halt pint of cold water for about ten minutes. Peel and core the apples, a single layer, and stew them very gently in one pint of water with the rind and juice of the lemon and the sugar, taking care to keep the apples whole. When soft place in a deep dish. Add the soaked Gelatine to the liquor and stir over the fire until dissolved. Colour with a few drops of cochineal and let set. When quite firm chop the Jelly finely on wet paper, with a wet knife, and place round the apples. Decorate the apples before serving with whipped and slighth' sweetened cream. (19) RIBBON JELLY. I quart of Jelly (as per Recipe A few drops Cox’s Carmine or No. I or 3). Cox’s Cochineal. A few drops Cox’s Chlorophyll Green. Divide the jelly into three equal parts. Colour one-third a bright red, another green. Pour about two inches of the red jelly 1213 into a mould (previouslj' rinsed in cold water) and let this set, then pour in the same quantity' of the pale jelly, and let this set, then two inches of green, and repeat this until the mould is full. Great care must be taken that each layer is perfectly firm before pouring in the other, or the effect will be spoilt by the two colours running into each other. A shorter method of making Ribbon Jelly would be to fill half the mould with the pale jelly, and when firm fill up with the red or green. (20) APRICOT MOULD. ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Cold Water. i”quart tin of Apricots. i tablespoonful Maraschino (it 4 to 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. liked). 1 Lemon rind and juice. Soak the Gelatine in the half pint of water for ten minutes Take the juice of the apricots, add to the soaked Gelatine, make the liquid up to one quart, add to it the sugar and rind and juice of the lemon. Heat over the fire until thoroughly mixed, add the Maraschino, aud then strain. Pour a layer of Jelly into the bottom of a mould, then lay in apricots and let them set; then put in another layer of apricots and jell3^ allowing it to set, and so on until the mould is full. When firm, turn out and serve with a little slightly sweetened whipped cream. It is best to use a shallow plain mould. (21) DECORATED STRAWBERRY JELLY. 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. The whisked white of an Egg. 1 pint Syrup made with i lb. f lb. Ripe Red Strawberries. sugar and i pint water). i pint Cold Water. Juice of I Lemon. Pick half a pound of strawberries, crush them and place in a basin ; whilst warm (but not hot) pour the syrup over the fruit, cover, and let stand for an hour. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and then dissolve gentl3>’ over the fire. Add the juice of the lemon, the siramecistrawberry syrup, and the whisked white of an egg, Whisk the preparation until it boils up, allow to boil up well without stirring about ten minutes, and then simmer for another ten minutes or more. Strain through a clean scalded cloth until clear. Place a mould in ice (see Recipe 25) and mask with a little of the jelly, then decorate with the rest of the straw- berries, dipping each berry into partially set jelly, and when sufficiently set pour in the rest of the cooled jelly. When quite firm turn out quickly into a cold dish and serve. (•22) MOULDED PEARS. I tin of Pears, i pint Pear Syrup. 4 ozs. Loaf Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Lemon Essence, ozs. Cox's <’iELATiNE. I tablespoonful Raisin Wine.Soak the Gelatine in the pulp for about ten minutes, make up the liquid to one quart, add the sugar, and heat over the fire until thoroughly mixed, then add the essence and wine. Pour about an inch of the partially set jelly into a plain mould, let set, then lay in the pieces of pear, and pour in enough jelly to set them. When quite firm add the rest of the jelly and set aside until wanted. Turn out and serve with a little slightly sweetened cream. This dish is quickly made, but where time is no object it can be moulded in the same manner as Recipe 20. (23) FRUIT SALAD (SUMMER). Bananas. Syrup. Liqueur. A gill Lemon Jelly (Recipe i). Other fruits as below. Raspberries. Currants. Cherries. Pineapple. Strawberries. Melon. Take about a quart of strawberries, raspberries, and currants mixed, using two or three kinds of the latter ; add about a gill of cherries, red and white, stoned and fully ripe; mix with them a couple of sliced bananas and half a gill each of melon and pine in dice. Pick all the fruit carefully, and reject any unripe or un- sound. Mix all in a deep bowl or dish, then pour a syrup over consisting of six to eight ounces of loaf sugar dissolved in boiling water. (Put the sugar in a basin and pour the water over, a few spoonsful at a time, until it becomes a syrup.) Cover the fruit till cold. Now put over the melted jelly mixed with the liqueur, noyeau is excellent. Cover and place on ice. A few of the best of the strawberries should be reserved ; stick angelica stalks in, and dot them about last thing. If stone fruit (plums, peaches, etc., either bottled or fresh) be added they should be stoned, skinned, and cut up. The greater the varietjf the better; any S3'rup from preserved fruit may be used, and kernels blanched and added give a nice flavour. Serve with biscuits, cream, and sugar. The appearanse is enhanced by setting the dish on a flat one with a border of ferns or fruit leaves. This salad has a little “ body,” owing to the jellj’, and the flavour is delicious. It is simple in composition for so good a dish. (24) FRUIT MACEDOINE A LA TRIFLE. A few drops Cox’s Essence ot Orange. A few drops Cox’s Essence of Pineapple. § pint Gold Leaf Jellj' (Recipe 12). I- pint of Almond Blancmange (Recipe 35). Peel the orange, scoop out the pulp and mix it with the pine, flavour, and add just sufficient sugar. Line a deep glass salad bowl, bottom and sides, with a single layer of the ratafias; put A pint tin of grated Pineapple. A large Jaffa Orange, or two small. 6 ozs. Muscatel Raisins. Some blanched Jordan Almonds. A few ounces Ratafias. Uthe fruit in ; now cover with more ratafias, and pour the blanc- mange over. When set, make a border of the chopped jelly (if gold leaf cannot be had, use orange, lemon, or wine jell3’). Stone the raisins and marinate them in a little sherry, put them in the centre, making them as high as possible, and stick the almond strips amongst them. “ Grape fruit ” may be introduced into this with good effect, and glace oranges added to the other fruit for decoration. (25) TO MASK WITH JELLY AND DECORATE A MOULD WHERE NO REFRIGERATOR IS KEPT. First pour about two inches of jelly (as per Recipe No. i or 3) into a mould previously rinsed in very cold water; let set. To coat the sides break up some ice in a pie dish ; pour into the mould about three tablespoonfuls of liquid jell3'^, and turn the mould round and round in the ice until a coating like glass is formed. The jelly should be on the point of setting—that is to say, of the consistency of thin cream. Then dip each piece of garnish into partially set jelly and decorate the mould. This will 1 make it adhere to the lining of the mould, so that the shape will I turn out properly. j: This rule applies to all decorations, both for sweet and savouiy' 1 dishes, and the result in the improvement of the appearance of ! the moulds makes it well worth the extra trouble. (26) BOW TO DISPENSE WITH A BORDER MOULD. For some recipes a border mould is used, but if 3'ou have not one in the house an ordinary mould will do if used in the fol- lowing manner:—Pour some of 3'our jelly into the mould, make a hole in the centre by placing a small jar (wetted to prevent sticking) in the middle of it. Put in ice or into a cold place, and v/hen set, fill the jar with hot water and lift out carefull3r. Fill up the hollow quickly with a prepared mixture. (27) JELLY (AND CREAM) LEAVES FOR DECORATION. Pour a layer of jelly, about a quarter of an inch thick, into a clean wetted baking tin, and set by to get firm. Green leaves, coloured with Cox’s Chlorophyll Green, are very effective. Or use a pule jellv, and just as it is setting sprinkle chopped pistachios over. When set, cut into shapes. A variety of cutters may be got very cheaply. Shamrocks are as pretty as vine, ivy, &c., though less often seen. Always wet the cutters. White leaves, made by sprinkling desiccated cocoa- nut over the jelly, are very suitable for winter decorations. laBrown leaves cut from Chocolate Cream (Recipe 43) are very useful for light coloured dishes. By adding brown colouring a deeper tint is got. Variegated leaves are made by sprinking chopped pistachios, cocoanut, and a little of the latter coloured pink, over a or cream foundation, in an irregular design (sometimes a little grated chocolate improves) stamping it out when cold. The first layer of jelly must be thin, as a second one is needed to set the garnish. Students of nature will best succeed in this class of decoration. Natural leaves of many kinds are brightened by the aid of liquid jelly. They should be dry and free from dust before it is brushed over. NOTE —The remnants of jolly and cream may be chopped vp a/nd used in various ways, or jelly of one colour may he whipped ; not a scrap need he wasted. (28) WHIPPED JELLY FOR GLRSSES OR DECORATION. I quart of Jelly (Recipe i or 3). When the jelly is just beginning to set place in a good sized bowl and whip until frothy. Pour into jelly glasses or keep for decorating moulds.17 Blancmandes. note. —JBlancma/nges me very simply amd easily prepared. The flavour of them is both delicate and delicious. (29) BLANCMANGE (Plain). 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i| pints Milk. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Essence. Soak the Gelatine in a quarter pint of cold milk about fifteen minutes. Add the sugar and remaining milk and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved. Add the vanilla, and strain into a basin. Stir occasionally until cool, and when becoming quite creamy set in a wetted mould and put in a very cool place. (30) “FRUTUS” BLANCMANGE. (Specially gecom- mended.) Prepare as above, using Cox’s “Frutus” in place of Vanilla Essence, “ Frutus ” is a delicious combination of fruit flavours, and is issued only by the Proprietors of Cox’s Gelatine. With all milk and cream dishes it gives excellent results, and will be a surprise to many cooks who use it for the first time. (31) BLANCMANGE (with Condensed Milk). 3 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla i\ pints Milk prepared with Essence. Condensed Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes. Place in a stewpan, and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved. Add the vanilla, and strain into a prepared mould. When firm turn quickly on to a cold dish and serve with stewed fruit or preserve. NOTE.—Condensed Milk is less trouble to use than fresh milk, no stirring being necessary after the ingredients are mixed and the Gelatine dissolved. Choose a brand containing full cream, or preferably added cream, and without added sugar; but in the latter case, add a little sugar to the mixture. Low-priced skim milk brands are useless. (32) BLANCMANGE (Wfaie Flavonr). 2 OZS. Castor Sugar. i pint Milk. I oz. Cox’s Gelati.ne. i gill Sherry. Soak the Gelatine in half pint of milk for about fifteen minutes. Add the .sugar and the re.st of the milk and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved. Remove from the fire, and when nearly cold add the wine. Strain, and let the mixture remain in the basin, stirring from time to time until it is becoming quite cream}'. HPour into a moilld rinsed in cold water. Keep in a cool place until required, turn out and serve. (33) GELATINE AND CORNFLOUR BLANCMANGE. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. oz. Cornflour. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla, ij pints Milk. Lemon, or Almond Essence. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little of the cold milk and place with the remaining milk in a stewpan and boil for eight minutes ; add the soaked Gelatine and sugar, and stir till dissolved, Strain into a basin and add the vanilla. Stir occasionally until nearly cold. Pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm turn out and serve. (34) LEMON BLANCMANGE. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pints Milk, f oz. Fresh Butter. 2 oz. Castor Sugar. The yolks of 2 Eggs. I oz. Ground Rice or Rice Flour. The strained juice and half the rind of I Lemon. A few drops Cox’s Lemon Essence. Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Make a custard with yolks of eggs and half a pint of milk. Put the remaining half pint of milk into a saucepan with the ground rice, butter, lemon rind, and sugar, and let it boil, stirring continually until the mixture is stiff; add the custard, lemon juice, and essence, and strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Set aside until firm, then turn out and serve. (35) ALMOND BLANCMANGE. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops of Cox’s Vanilla I pint Milk Essence. I gill Cream. 2 ozs. Sugar. 10 Bitter Almonds. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar. Place in a saucepan the remaining milk, lemon rind and sugar, and let stand by the fire until the milk is well flavoured and then let the milk just boil up. Remove from the fire, add the dissolved Gelatine and vanilla essence, and strain through a fine wire sieve into a basin. hen nearl3' cold, add the cream and stir occasionally until it becomes quite creamy, pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm, turn out and serve with stewed fruit or preserve. Garnish with glac6 fruits or jam, or as fancy dictates.19 Creams, Puddings, Sponges, Crifles, etc. Not33 ].— Creams shauld not be moulded v/ntil beginning to set. Most of the creams would be improved if mashed with jelly and dee crated (see recipe 25). Note 2.—In recipes where half a pint of cream is among the ingredients, the ordinary jar of cream, sold cheaply by all provision merchants, will be found to be guite sufficient. Milk may be added to make up the half pint in winter, to prevent the mould being too sUffi. Note 3.—Cream, whipped well, is lighter and the bulk is doubled. Unless whipped cream is specified in the recipes, ordinary cream xs intended. Where sweetened whipped cream is mentioned, it should be napped before sweetening. The xnix- ture of milk and Gelatine, etc., shimld be alloxved to cool a little before adding it to the cream; and this xnust be done lightly but thoroughly, or it xvill not turn out evenly. Note 4.—Cxistard is referred to in many of the followinr recipes. For the richest dishes, a good custard is assximed ; fog plain ones, two eggs to the half pint of milk will suffice, or three yolks and one white xvill resxtlt in a richer custard. Where, hoxv- ever, but little cream is blended with the rest, an extra xvhite gives solidity. Fresh eggs are essential, especially where the whites have to be separatelxj whipped for the garnishing of dishes. Pure milk and good came suga/r a/re equally importa/xit. I pint Milk. Soak the Gelatine in half a cup of cold milk for about fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together, and put into a double boiler with the remaining milk. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken (but do not let it boil), then add the Gelatine, stir till dissolved, and strain into a large basin. Put in a cold place, and when it begins to cool, add the whisked whites of eggs, flavouring and the whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, and when beginning to set, pour into a mould previously lined with the finger biscuits. The finger biscuits should be trimmed evenly that they may fit closely in the mould. Set aside until wanted, turn out and .serve. (36) CHARLOTTE ROSSE. \ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 5 Eggs- 4 ozs. White Sugar. i pint Cream. Cox’s Vanilla or other Essence. Finger Sponge Cakes. (37) CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUS8E. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 pint Sweetened Custard. 2 oz.s. Chocolate Powder. \ pint .Milk. A few Sponge Cakes or Finger Biscuits and Chocolate Maca- roons. i pint Whipped Double Cream.Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes. As soon 20 as the custard is thickened add the soaked Gelatine and chocolate powder, and stir for a few minutes until thick (but do not let it boil). Remove from the fire and allow it to cool a little, then stir in the cream. When sufficiently cool pour into a flat mould pre- viously lined with the sponge cakes and macaroons. The dish is improved in appearance if the chocolate macaroons are used for the top of the mould ; when turned out, it may be ornamented with whipped cream coloured pink. (38) BANANA RUSSE. From 3 to 4 Bananas (according to size). I pint Custard (yolks of eggs only make it richer), j oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 gill Cold Milk. 2 tablespooufuls Whipped of Double Cream. A little Cox’s Vanilla Essence. A few drops of Brand3L Peel and cut the bananas into fingers and line the sides and bottom of a plain Charlotte mould, in the same way that you pre- pare a Charlotte Russe. Soak the Gelatine in the cold milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve slowly over the fire and add to the custard while both are hot. Strain, and when nearly cold add the cream and flavouring and pour into the prepared mould. Set aside until quite firm. Turn out and serve, (39) STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. j lb. of Strawberry Jam or Pulp made from fresh fruit. I pint Double Cream. The juice of half a Lemon, oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pint Milk. Pink Icing (whisked white of half an egg and ^ lb. of icing sugar, few drops Cox’s Cochi- neal well worked). Finger Biscuits or Sponge Cakes. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Line a mould with the sponge cakes or finger biscuits, which have been previously covered with a thin layer of the pink icing, and allow to set. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve over the fire. Rub the jam through a sieve, add the lemon juice, dissolved Gelatine, and cochineal. When cool stir in the whipped cream and pour into the lined mould as the mixture begin to set. (40) CARAMEL CHARLOTTE. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Yolks of 3 Eggs, the White of i, 3 oz. Lump Sugar. well beaten. I dessert spoonful of Water. The rind of half a Lemon. I gill Cream. i pint Milk. Sponge Fingers. Place the sugar with the water and lemon rind in a small clean saucepan, and cook over the fire until brown. Soak the Gelatine21 in the milk Tor about fifteen minutes, and then stir over the fire with the caramel, j’olks and white of eggs until the mixture thickens (but do not let it boil). Remove from the fire, stir occa- sionall3’ until cool, add the cream, and pour into the mould pre- viously lined with the sponge fingers. Great care must be taken not to pour the cream into the prepared mould till it actually begins to set, otherwise the dish will be a failure. Set aside until cold. Turn oat on to a dish and serve. (41) ORANGE CHARLOTTE. ^ pint Orange Jelly (as per oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Recipe No. 5). Sponge Fingers. Strained juice of 2 Oranges. Grated rind of i Orange. ^ pint Double Cream. I oz. Castor Sugar. Pour into a mould some orange jelly about one inch deep, let this set, then line the inside of the mould with the sponge fingers. Place a smaller mould in the centre of this lined mould and fill up the space (which should be about an inch) with clear orange jellj’, and set aside until firm. Remove the small mould and immediatelj' pour in the prepared mixture as below. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes, and then dissolve over the fire with the juice of two oranges and the gyrated peel of one. Remove from the fire, and when cool add the whipped cream, pour this into the space left after the removal of the mould. Set aside until quite firm. Serve quarters of oranges round the base of the dish. (42) PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE i pint of Jellj' (Recipe i or 3). f pint Cream. Sponge Finger Biscuits. 1 oz. Castor Sugar. § oz. Cox’s Gel.^tine. I gill Milk. I small tin Pineapple (chunks are best). Mask t'ne bottom of a plain mould with a little of the jelly and decorate with half a glace cherry in the centre and small slices 01 pineapple, and set these with the rest of the jelh' (see Recipe 25). Line the sides of the mould with the finger biscuits. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Whip the cream, mix in the rest of the pine- apple cut into .small dice, the sugar, and a tablespoonful of pine- apple syrup, and strain in the dissolved gelatine; mix well, and when cool pour carefully into the prepared mould. Set by in a cold place until required, turn out and serve. (43) CHOCOLATE CREAM. .J oz. Cox’s Gelati.ve. i oz. Sugar. \ pint Cream. Cox’.s Vanilla Essence, i pint Custard. ^ gill Cold Milk. 3 ozs. Chocolate. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Dis.oolve the chocolatein sufficient milk to rorm a smooth paste. Whip the cream, add the custard, the dissolved chocolate, and the sugar to it; then strain in the Gelatine, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould. When firm, turn out and serve. (44) GINGER CREAM. i oz. Cox's Gelatine. 2 czs. Sugar, i pint Cream. 4 ozs. Preserved Ginger, f pint Custard. gill cold Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve over the fne. Whip the cream, add the custard, the sugar, and the ginger cut into slices. Stir in a dessert-spoonful of the ginger syrup, then add the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occa- sionall}' until beginning to set and pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn out and serve. (45) PEACH CREAM. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 4 ozs. Sugar. ^ pint Peach Puree, 5 the juice of a Lemon. I pint Cream. f gill cold Milk. Put the Gelatine to soak in the milk with the sugar, then dissolve it gently over the fire. Whip the cream; rub sufficient peaches through a hair sieve to obtain half a pint of pulp ; add this to the cream and lemon juice. Then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occa-ionally until cold and set in a mould. When firm, turn out and serve. (46) RATAFIA CREAM. oz. Cox’s Gelatine. | pint Cream, 3 ozs. Sugar. 2 ozs. Ratafias. 1 pint Milk. Grated rind of 1 Lemon. 2 ozs. Macaroons. Soak the Gelatine in in half a pint of cold milk for about fifteen minutes. Crush the macaroons and ratafias and put into a bowl, and pour over them half a pint of boiling milk. Then add the sugar, lemon rind and dissolved Gelatine, and stir till dissolved. When cool add the.cream. Pour into a mould rinsed in cold water and stand in a cool place to set. This mould would be improved if masked in jelly and decorated with glace cherries and angelica (see Recipe 25). (47) ITALIAN CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. S pint Custard, flavoured with Grated rind of i Lemon. Cinnamon. 2 ozs. Ratafias 4 pint Cream. i oz. each Preserved Ginger, a gill cold Milk. Candied Fruit and Cherries. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve over the fire, "^fhip the cream, add the custard, sugar.23 lemon rind, crushed ratafias, and the candied fruits (cut finely)- Mix thoroughly, and then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould pre- viously rinsed in cold water. Set the mould on ice or in a cool place, turn out when firm, and serve when required. (48) VELVET CREAM. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i wineglassful of Sherry (or it 1 pint Custard. preferred, a teaspoonful Cox’s J pint Cream. Vanilla Essence. 2 ozs. Sugar. Juice of i Lemon. I gill cold Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, then stir over the fire until dissolved. Whip the cream, add the custard, the sugar and lemon juice ; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. When a little cool stir slowly into the mixture the sherry (if done quickly it will curdle), whisk together a few minutes, and pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn out and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with jelly and decorated with different coloured preserved fruits (see Recipe 25). (49) RASPBERRY CREAM. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 P’nt Milk. 1 giU Raspberry Juice, made 2 ozs. Sugar, if jam is used, a little from fresh fruit or jam. more if fresh fruit is used. Thinly cut rind of I Lemon. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. i pint Cream. A little cold Milk for soaking. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently ovpr the fire. Place the half pint of milk, lemon rind and sugar in a stewpan, and stir gently over the fire until it boils, remove the rind and pour into a basin. Strain in the Gelatine, allow to cool a little, then add the cream, previously whipped, the raspberry juice and the cochineal (if jam is used, take one tablespoonful and add one gill of water, boil up, reduce a little and strain). Pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm, turn out on to a cold dish and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with a thin layer of jelly and decorated with cherries and angelica (see Recipe 25). Decorate with fresh fruit when in season. (50) COFFEE CREAM. ? oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i gill strong Coffee or table- spoonful Coffee Essence diluted with water to make up the i gill. 3 ozs. Sugar, i pint Cream. ^ pint Custard. A pinch of Salt. ^ gill Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Whip the cream, add the custard.sugar, salt and coffee to it; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould rinsed in cold water. When set, turn on to a dish ; decorate with chopped green jell3’, and serve. This mould is very much improved both in appearance and flavour if masked with green jelly, using Recipes i or 2, coloured with Cox’s Chlorophyll Green. The jelly should be an inch thick at the top. For method (see Recipe 25). (51) BANANA CREAM. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 3 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 3 Bananas. ^ pint whipped Cream, f pint Milk. Juice of i Lemon. Skin the bananas and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the Gelatine to soak in a little milk for about fifteen minutes, and dis- solve gently over the fire with the remaining milk, sugar, banana pulp and lemon juice. Allow to cool a little, and stir in the whipped cream As soon as it begins to set, pour the mixture into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Unmould in the usual manner, as described in the foregoing recipes, and ser\'e. A dessert-spoonful of brandy improves this recipe. This mould would be improved if masked with jelly and decorated with dried fruits, such as pears, green almonds, rings (both pink and green), and knots, etc. This makes a change from cherries and angelica. (52) ORANGE CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. •3^ pint Milk. 4 sweet Oranges. 1 pint Cream. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in then dissolve gently with Castor Sugar. Cox’s Orange Cox’s Saffron 1 cz. A few drops Essence. A few drops Colouring. the milk for about fifteen minutes, and the loaf sugar over the fire. Whip the cream, whisk in the dissolved Gelatine; add the orange essence and saffron. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould. When set turn out on to a glass dish, and serve with quarters of the oranges arranged round and sprinkled with the castor sugar. (63) VANILLA CREAM. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i teaspoonful Cox’s Vanilla ^ pint Custard. Essence 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. f gill cold Milk, i pint Cream. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, dissolve gently over the fire Whip the cream, add the custard and sugar. 21and strain in the dissolved Gelatine, flavour with vanilia essence. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, then pour into a jelly mould. Allow to set until firm in a cool place or on ice. 1 urn out on a dish and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with a thin layer of jelly and decorated with glace cherries and angelica (see Recipe 25). (54) APRICOT CREAM (Economic). I oz. Cox's Gelatine. 5 pint Apricot Jam. I pint of Custard made of Eggs, ^ pint Milk. Milk, and i oz. of Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Almond or Ratafia Essence. Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of milk for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Add the preserve, and stir until it is quite melted, then add the custard and essence. When beginning to set, pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. \\ hen firm, turn out and serve. (55) BAVARIAN CREAM. I ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. J pint Cream. 1 teaspoonful of flavouring 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. (Noyeau, Curacoa, Marischino, f pint Milk, or Cox’s Vanilla Essence). Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire with two ounces of sugar and the rest of the milk. Whip in the cream to a snow-like froth, then add one ounce of sugar and the flavouring. Then mix lightly, but thoroughly, with the dissolved Gelatine. When begin- ning to set, pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn quickly on to a cold dish and serve. This mould would be improved if masked in jelly and decorated with different coloured preserved fruits (see Recipe 25). 1 oz. Sugar. ^ oz. Angelica. ^ pint whipped Cream. 1 oz. Glace Cherries. j| gill cold Milk. (56) PRINCESS CREAM. I pint of Jelly (as per Recipe 1, 2, or 3), coloured with a few drops of Cox’s Cochineal or Carmine. ^ oz. of Cox’s Gelati.ne. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissrdve gently over the fire with the sugar. Whip the cream and stir in the fruits (finely cut) and the dissolved Gelatine (strained). Mask the mould with a thin layer of the red jelly, having about two inches of the jelly at the top. When quite set, pour in the cream, and let set in a rwl place. .Serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream.(57) PINEAPPLE CREAM. 26 Juice of I tin of Pineapple. pint Cream, f Oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i oz. of Loaf Sugar. Juice of I Lemon. Soak the Gelatine in the pineapple juice made up with water to three-quarters of a pint, for about ten minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire with the sugar and lemon juice. Remove from the fire and pour into a basin. When it gets quite cool stir in slowly the whipped cream and pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm turn quickly on to a cold dish,-and serve with a compote of the pineapple. Or, if preferred^ a few slices of the pineapple may be cut into small dice and mixed with the cream just before it commences to set. (58) PISTACHIO CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla I oz. Castor Sugor. Essence. i pint whipped Cream. 1 ©z, Pistachio Kernels. pint Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and dissolve slowly over the fire. Blanch and peel the pistachios, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve, mix them with the whipped cream, add the vanilla, and last of all strain in the dissolved Gelatine, which should be warm but not hot. When cool, pour into a prepared mould and set aside until cold ; turn out and serve. (59) STONE CREAM ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A little Preserved Ginger or J pint whipped Cream. Cr3’stallised Fruits. J pint Milk. A little Stewed Fruit or Jam. I oz. Sugar. Soak the Gelatine for about fifteen minutes'in the milk, and then dissolve gentl}' over the fire with the sugar, and strain into a basin. Allow to cool a little and stir in the whipped cream. Place the stewed fruit or jam in a glass dish, cover it with the mixture and leave it to set. Decorate the top with small pieces of ginger or fruits, and serve. (60) GOOSEBERRY CREAM. A Vanilla or Velvet Cream A few drops of Cox’s Chlorophjdl (Recipes Nos. 53 and 48). Green. I pint ripe Gooseberries. A little clear Jelly for masking. Strained Juice of I Lemon. Cherries and Angelica for decora- tion. Rub the gooseberries through a hair sieve. Make a cream as given in Recipes 53 or 48, using i oz. of Gelatine in place of the I oz. given, and add to it whilst warm, but not hot, the gooseberry puree, lemon juice and chlorophyll green. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into the prepared mould. The masking and decoration can be omitted if wished.27 (61) COTHERSTONE CREAM. ^ pint of Wine Jelly (Recipe 3). Strawberry Cream (Recipe 62), Vanilla Cream (Recipe 53). coloured red with Cox’s Cochi- neal or Carmine. Mask a mould with the Jelly about J inch thick, and place on ice to set When quite firm, stamp out a star or cross in the centre of the jeUy and fill up the space with the vanilla cream. Then fill up the rest of the mould with alternate layers of vanilla and strawberry’ cream, taking great care that both creams are on the point of setting before pouring into the mould. Turn out and serve with slightly sweetened cream. Any other of the creams given in this book, of different colours, would do in place of the above. Strained juice and thinly cut rind of half a Lemon. Sufficient Milk for soaking. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. (62) STRAWBERRY CREAM. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. § pint Double Cream. i pint Custard. ^ lb. Ripe Strawberries. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and dis- solve gently over the fire with the lemon juice and rind, and strain into the custard. Rub the strawberries through a hair sieve and mash to a pulp, mix with the cream, and then add to the custard and Gelatine when cool. Add the cochineal. Mix all well together and stir occasionally until becoming creamy, and pour into a wetted mould. (63) RUSSIAN CHARLOTTE. Three pennyworth of Finger Any of the Creams in above Sponge Cakes. recipes. Line a plain mould with the sponge biscuits. Brush the edges of the cakes with white of egg to keep them together. Then fill with any of the creams in the above recipes, but lessen the Gelatine, as it does not require to be so stiff when supported by the biscuits. (&4) GELATINE AND CORNFLOUR CREAM. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pints Milk. ^ oz. Cornflour. ^ pmt Cream. I Egg- 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. A few drops Ciox’s Vanilla Essence Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little of the cold milk and place with the remaining milk in a stewpan and boil for eight minute.s. 1 hen add the whisked egg, sugar, and soaked28 Gelatine, and stir until it thickens. Strain into a basin, add the cream, well beaten, and vanilla, and stir occasionally until cool. Pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Set aside until firm, turn out and serve. (65) CHERRY CREAM PUDDING (Excellent). I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Whisked White of i Egg. i pint Cream. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla or 1 pint Milk. Almond Essence. 2 ozs. Preserved Cherries. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve slowly over the fire with the sugar. Strain into a basin, and when a little cool add the vanilla. Whip the cream and add it with the remaining milk, and then incorporate gradually the whisked white of egg. When beginning to set, sprinkle in the cherries (cut in halves), and stir for a few minutes before moulding. When firm, turn out and serve. This may be varied by using a border mould, and filling the centre with crushed ratafias and macaroons, soaked with a little sherry, and dotted about with pink whipped cream. (66) APRICOT CREAM. 1 pint Apricot Puree. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ pint Milk. 4 ozs. Sugar. 2 yolks of Eggs well beaten. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Put sufficient apricots (either tinned or fresh fruit) through a sieve to obtain half a pint of pulp. Make a custard of the milk, beaten yolks of eggs, and sugar, strain through a sieve into the apricot pur6e, then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Mix thoroughly and stir occasion- ally until cold. Pour into a mould. When firm, turn out and serve. (67) RICE CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ lb. Sugar. 3 oz. best Rice. White of i Egg. I5 pints Milk. A teaspoonful Cox’s Vanilla Es- ^ pint Cream. sence. Soak the Gelatine in .sufficient cold milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Cook the rice in the rest of the milk until quite soft, and then stir in the sugar and vanilla ; strain in the dissolved Gelatine, the cream, and white of one egg well whipped together. Return to the fire for a moment, stir gently, but take care not to let it boil. Pour into a mould, and when set turn out on a cold dish and garnish with preserved fruits or jam and chopped jelly. Serve with any stewed fruit in season or jam. The rice should be washed and soaked in the milk before cook- ing. Use a double saucepan.(68) DALMENY MOULDS. i lb. ripe Apricots. Juice of half a Lemon. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A Custard made of:— I oz. powdered Almonds, or a f pint Milk. few drops Cox's Almond 2 oz. Castor Sugar. Essence. 2 yolks of Eggs. A little water for soaking Gelatine. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Rub the apricots through a hair sieve, add to the custard, and when cool strain in the dissolved Gelatine and lemon juice. Pour the mixture into a basin and mix well. When becoming creamy pour into small moulds. The moulds would be improved if masked wnth jelly and de- corated with fruits before pouring in the mixture. NOTE.—If this mould is made at the same time as a clea/r Jelly {Recipe 1 or 3), or Lemon Sponge (J^),the whites of the eggs will not he wasted. A custard could he made with 1 egg, hut the result would not he so good. (69) COCOANUT RICE MOULDS. j oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i J pints Milk. 3 ozs. Best Rice. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 2 ozs. grated Cocoanut. I pint Claret JelljL (See Recipe 4, or any other ot our Jellies coloured red with Cox’s Cochineal.) Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and stir gently over the fire until dissolved. Boil the rest of the milk and rice together until quite soft, add the sugar, cocoanut, and dissolved Gelatine ; when cool, stir in the cream, and pour into the moulds. When set, turn out on a dish and garnish the top of each mould with the jelly which has been chopped finelj' or cut into fancy shapes (see Recipe 27). Another effective way of moulding would be to pour the mixture into a border mould, decorating the top with the jelly and filling the centre with sligbtl3’ sweetened whipped cream. (70) FIG CREAM. J oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ pint Claret, or the same quan- 1 oz. Castor Sugar. tity of water. Rind of ^ a Lemon. 1 gill whipped Cream. ^ lb. best Dried Figs. Cut the figs into small pieces and place in a stewpau with the sugar, lemon, rind and claret. Simmer gently until tender, when the liquor should be almost absorbed. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes and dissolve gently over the fire and strain into the figs. Remove the lemon rind and pass the whole through a wire sieve. Stir in a little of the cream and pour into a mould. When set turn out on to a cold dish, garnish with the rest of the cream and serve.30 The figs are improved by soaking for a few hours in the claret. They should be rinsed first. I oz. Castor Sugar. I teaspoonful Essence. Cox’s Lemon (71) LEMON CREAM. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. J pint Cream. 5 pint Milk. 2 Lemons. Soak the Gelatine in a little cold milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve over the fire. Peel the lemons thinly and put with the cream and the rest of the milk into a covered stewpan, and let it stand in a gentle heat for one hour, taking great care to heat it very slowly and not allowing it to boil. Remove the peel, add the sugar, and strain in the Gelatine. When cool, strain in the juice of one lemon, and add the essence. Set aside until firm, then turn out on to a cold dish and serve. (72) EDINBURGH CREAM. f Cox’s Gelatine. 3 Eggs, well whisked, j pint Cream. 1^ ozs. Loaf Sugar. ^ pint Milk. 3 ozs. mixed Glac6 Fruits, soaked 1 gill of Jelly (Recipe I or 3). in a spoonful of Brandy. Mask a mould with the jelly and decorate with different coloured glace fruits, and set the fruits with a layer of jelly (see Recipe 25). Soak the Gelatine in sufficient cold milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve slowly over the fire. Place the rest of the milk, the cream with the sugar, into a stewpan, and bring to the boil; then pour into a basin containing the whisked eggs ; stir well, return to the stewpan and stir until thick (but do not let it boil) ; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine and remove from the fire. When nearly cold stir in the rest of the glace fruits cut into shreds. When firm, turn out and serve. (73) SMALL STRAWBERRY MOULDS. 1 lb. Strawberries. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 Eggs, whisked. i oz. Castor Sugar. I pint Water. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. I tablespoonful Maraschino (op- i pint Jelly (Recipe i or 3). tional). A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Mask some fancy dariole moulds with jelly ; when partly set, garnish with strawberries, coat with half-set jelly, and place on ice till set (see Recipe 25). Pick the remaining strawberries, crush, and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Make a syrup of the loaf sugar and a gill of cold water. Then place the fruit pulp, syrup, whisked eggs and Maraschino in a bowl, and whisk over a sauce- pan of boiling water. Soak the Gelatine in the rest of the water and dissolve gently over the fire ; then strain into the pulp and keep stirring over the hot water until the mixture thickens; add31 the cochineal, then take oft' and beat for a short time over the crushed ice. When beginning to set, fill up the moulds and set by until firm. Turn out on to a cold dish and garnish with chopped or whipped jeliy (see Recipe 28). (74) SMALL CHOCOLATE MOULDS. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 3 Eggs whisked. I quart Milk. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. I tablespoonful Ground Rice or ^ lb. Chocolate Powder. Rice Flour. A small quantity of slightly I teaspoonful Cox’s Vanilla Es- sweetened whipped Cream for sence. decoration. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes. Mix the ground rice smoothly with a little of the milk, and cook for ten minutes. Put the chocolate, sugar, cooked ground rice, soaked Gelatine, and remaining milk into a stewpan and stir until it comes nearly to the boil. Add the whisked eggs and stir until it thickens (do not let it boil). Strain into a basin and stir occasionally until nearly cold, then pour into small prepared dariole moulds. Set aside until firm. Turn out on to a flat dish and decorate with the whipped cream. NOTE.—Thete nionlds 'woiM ‘make a pretty a/)ul effective sweet if served on a dish with alternate small fajnoy moulds of Bla/nc- vuvuje {Jtecipes 29 to 35), decorated with different colov/red glace fruits. (75) MAFEKING CREAMS. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Orange I pint Milk. Essence. \ pint whipped Cream. 2 oz. White Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Mix in the sugar and flavouring and when cool add the cream, beat all together and pour into fancy dariole moulds. Serve with a dot of jam on the top of each mould, and edge with a little ring of finely chopped pistachio nuts. Vary the jams, using gree 1, 3'ellow, and red. (76) CHESTNUT CREAM. From i to I oz. Cox's Gelatine. ^ pint Milk. I Ib. Chestnuts. i gill Cream. I lb. Loaf Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla 1 gill Jelly (Recipe i or 3). Essence. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and di.ssolve over the fire with the loaf sugar. Cook the chestnuts until tender, remove the skins, rub through a hair sieve, add the rest of the milk and boil up. .Strain into the chestnut mixture and stir over the fire until smooth. Remove from the32 fire and let cool, then add the cream and vanilla. Mask a border mould with jelly, then pour in the mixture. When set, turn out and serve with a little slightly sweetened whipped cream, coloured pink, for the centre. (77) NEW CENTURY CREAM. i pint thin Cream. 5 pint Milk. 1 oz. Ground Almonds. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar, j oz. Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, ing. I Egg. The rind of half an Orange. A few drops Cox’s Ratafia Essence Grapes and Cherries forgarnish- Soak the Gelatine in the milk, put it in a stewpan with the 5'olk of the Egg and other materials, except the almonds and essence. Whisk until dissolved, strain, and add the rest; stir well and set by to cool. The orange rind may either be grated or infused in the milk. The flavour of this is very delicate. After pouring over the fruit, use the grapes and cherries, cut in two, as a garnish, either for the centre or edge. If preferred, the cream may be tinted a pale pink with Cox’s Carmine. NOTE.— This, used hot, is cm excellent sauce for rich pud^ dings. It may also be served cold with stewed fniits or fruit tarts, eto. For plainer dishes, a gill of cream and half a pint of millt may be used. (78) IMITATION WHIPPED CREAM, FOR FILLING MERINGUES. i oz. (or a little less) Cox’s f pint Milk. Gelatine. ozs. Castor Sugar. pint Cream. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Essence. Whip the cream and add the sugar and vanilla. Soak the Gela- tine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Strain into a basin and whip. When cool, stir in the cream very gently. (79) LEMON SPONGE. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 Lemons (peeled thinly and 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. strained juice). Whites of 3 Eggs. i pint Water. Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of cold w’ater ten minutes- Put into a saucepan three quarter pint of boiling water, the sugar, lemons, and soaked Gelatine. Stir over a slow fire until entirely dissolved, taking great care it does not boil. Remove from the fire and strain carefully. When cool and beginning to set, add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all together until the preparation thickens and looks like snow. Heap up on a dish to appear as rocky as possible. < This can be moulded, only in that case pile high in the mould, as it sinks in cooling. In the summer use ozs. of Gelatine.33 (SO) ORANGE SPONGE. I oz. Goxs Gelatine. Juice of 2 large sweet Oranges 1 pint Water. and i large Lemon. 4 ozs. Loaf Sugar. Whisked white of I Egg. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Place in a stewpan and stir over the fire with the sugar until dissolved. Remove from the fire, add the orange and lemon juice, and strain carefull3'. The water and juices should measure a pint. When cool and beginning to set, whisk all together until the preparation thickens and looks like snow. Mould (as in Recipe 79) or heap on a dish to appear as rocky as possible. (81) PINEAPPLE SNOW. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. | gill ot water. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. Whisked whites of 3 Eggs. I pint tin of Pineapple. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes. Put into a stew- pan the pineapple (cut in dice) wdth the juice and sugar, and simmer ten minutes. Add the soaked Gelatine and make up with water to one pint, stir over a slow fire until entirely dissolved. Remove from the fire. When cool and beginning to set add the whites of Eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all together until the preparation thickens and looks like snow. Heap up on a dish and make it appear as rocky as possible, or mould as in Recipe 79. (82) PEACH SNOW. § oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i a quart tin of Peaches. I gill Milk. 4 ozs. Sugar. I pint Cream. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Place in a saucepan the syrup from the peaches and the sugar; stir until boiling, add the peaches, and continue to cook slowly till the pieces of peaches are quite clear. Pour into a basin and let the mixture get quite cold, then strain in the dissolved Gelatine, mix thoroughly, and pour into a glass dish. When quite firm decorate with the cream, previously whisked till stiff, and sprinkle a little coloured sugar or grated chocolate over the top. (8.3) PEACH SPONGE. I oz. Cox's Gelatine. ^ lb. Loaf Sugar, i quart tin of Peaches. Whiskod whites of 3 Eggs. Juice of I Lemon. J gill of Water, C34 Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes. Put into a stew- pan the juice of the peaches, sugar, lemon juice and soaked Gelatine, making a liquid up to one pint (with more water if necessary), and stir over a slow fire until entirely dissolved, taking great care it does not boil. Remove from the fire. When cool and beginning to set, add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all together until the preparation is light and spongy. Heap up lightly on to a glass dish, and serve with the peaches round the dish. Fill the centre of the peaches with whipped cream, slightly sweetened. If preferred, mould as Recipe 79, or use a border mould, and fill the centre with the peaches in a pile, decorating with the whipped cream. (84) PEAR SPONGE. ^ lb. dried Pears. Preserved Ginger and Syrup. 2 or 3 oz. Sugar. Custard. I oz. Cox's Gelatine. Glace Fruits and Prunes. Whites of 2 Eggs. Cover the pears (after rinsing) with tepid water, and let them soak for at least twenty-four hours. To cook, put them into a stew pan ; if the water is absorbed, add more; it should cover them well ; now simmer very gently until soft but unbroken; add the sugar when half done. Pour the syrup off, flavour it with a spoon- ful or two of ginger syrup, a few drops of Cox’s Essence ot Lemon, and a dessert spoonful of brandy. There should be a pint in all. The Gelatine is to be soaked and dissolved in a gill of water ; add this to the syrup. When cool and beginning to set, add the whisked whites of eggs, and go on whisking until the mixture is light and frothjL Heap it lightly, ring shape, on a glass dish. Now put the best of the pears, over-lapping, to form an outer ring ; fill the middle of each half with a little chopped ginger and syrup, and dots or strips of prunes and pink glacd fruit, pears for choice. The rest of the pears are to be cut up and put in the centre of the dish, with thick custard over the layers. Decorate the top with a star or ring of prunes and pink pears in pretty shapes. This should be served icy cold; it is a delicious dish at mode- rate cost. The custard should be flavoured with ginger and brandy. (85) LEMON DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. I quart Lemon Jelly (as per I pint Lemon Sponge (as Recipe Recipes 1, 2, or 3). 79- A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Add a few drops of Cochineal to the lemon jelly, and pour into a border mould rinsed in cold water. When set turn out on a dish and fill the cavity with lemon sponge, or, if preferred, whipped cream.35 / (86) PRINCE’S PUDDING or COLD SOUFFLE. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. The juice of i small Lemon. I gill of Water. Few drops Cox’s Carmine Cochineal. or J oz. Cox’s Gel.\tine. I gill Milk. The yolks of 2 Eggs. The whites of 3 Eggs. I pint Jelly (Recipe i or 3). I gill Apricot Pulp (from fresh fruit or tinned). Soak the Gelatine in the water tor about ten minutes, and dis- solve gently over the fire. Make a custard of the yolks of eggs and the milk, then add the apricot pulp, sugar, lemon juice, dissolved Gelatine and carmine. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir lightly, but thoroughly, into the mixture. Pour into a basin and stir occasionally until nearly cold. Set in a mould pre- viously masked with bright pale jelly (for method see Recipe 25) and decorated with angelica and fancifully cut pieces of glace fruit. Put the mould in a cool place. Turn out wheu cold and quite set, and serve as a dinner or luncheon sweet. (87) VICTORIA PUDDING. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 or 3 Sponge Cakes. A pint Custard. A little Raspberry Jam. I gill Cream. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. 1 gill Milk. 5 Wine-glass Sherry. 2 ozs. Sugar. Cut t’ne sponge cakes into thick slices and spread with jam, put them in a pie dish or soup plate and pour over them the sherry. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and dis- solve gently over the fire. Whip the cream, add the custard and the sugar ; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Colour half the mixture with cochineal. Place a Charlotte or fancy cake mould on ice, cr in a very cold place. Pour in a little of the coloured custard, let it set; add a little of the plain custard, and let that set; then add a layer of the soaked cake and fill up the remainder of the mould with alternate layers of custard and cake and put in a cool place to set. When firm, turn out quickly into a cold dish and serve. (88) MARSALA PUDDING. J oz. Cox’s Gelatine. J pint Marsala Wine. The thin rind and juice of Lemon. ^ pint Water. Soak the Gelatine in half the quantity of the water for ten minutes. Put the jam, sugar, juice and rind of lemon, and remaining water into a .saucepan and simmer for a few minutes; then add the soaked Gelatine and stir until dissolved. Strain into a basin and add the wine and brandy. Pour into a mould masked with a thin 2 ozs. Loaf .Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls Apricot Jam. 1 dessertspoonful Brandy, i oz. Pistachio Nuts.layer of jelly and decorated with pistachio nuts, blanched and cut in strips (see Recipe 25). Set by in a cold place or in ice until firm. Turn out into a dish and serve. (89) COBURG PUDDING. 5 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Flavouring of Cox’s Lemon or § pint of Custard. Vanilla Essence; or 5 wine- I pint of Jelly (as per Recipes glass of Sherry. I or 3) A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. I oz. Castor Sugar, | gill of Water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and then dissolve it slowly over the fire. Add the custard, sugar and the flavouring, or the wine. Pour into a mould two inches of jellj' coloured with the cochineal and let it set, and then pour in the custard. When firm, turn out quickly on to a dish. Chop the rest of the coloured jelly, previously set, and put it round the pudding. (90) MOCK ICE PUDDING. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. About ozs. Ratafias, I pint Milk. About 2^ ozs. Macaroons. 1 tablespoonful Sugar. A little Wine or Brandy to A few Crj^stallized Fruits,2 Eggs. moisten the Biscuits. Garnish a mould with a few crystallized fruits of different colours, and then fill with alternate layers of macaroons and rata- fias. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and dissolve slowly over the fire. Strain the Gela- tine into a custard (made of eggs, sugar, and remaining boiling milk). Let it cool. Strain and pour into the prepared mould. Place the mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice and keep in a cool place until required for table. To serve, turn out quickly on to a cold dish. A gill of cream would be a great improvement. (91) RIZ A L’IMPERATRICE. ^ pint of Clear Jelly (as per ^ oz. Angelica. Recipe i or 3). J lb. Rice. A oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i quart Milk. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla ^ pint Cream. Essence. I oz. Glac6 Cherries. Soak the Gelatine in a little milk for about fifteen minutes and dissolve over the fire. Coat the inside of a mould with a thin la3'er of jelly (see Recipe 25) and decorate with cherries and angelica Wash, pick, blanch, and cook the rice in the remaining milk till tender. It should have plenty of time, as it must be cooked very slowly so that the rice well absorbs the milk. Turn into a basiri and let cool. Now add the cream, dissolved Gelatine, sugar, and vanilla essence. Stir well and pour into the decorated mould. When firm turn out and serve with preserved apricots, peaches, or compote of prunes.(92) KIMBERLEY MOULD. f gill of Water. y oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pints of Milk. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 1 teaspoon.ful Cox’s Vanilla Thin rind of i Lemon, or Almond Essence. Yolks of 2 Eggs. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Simmer the milk with the lemon rind, remove the rind, add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until thick, but do not let it boil, then add the sugar and Gelatine and stir till dissolved. Remove from the fire, add the flavouring and strain. Stir occasion- ally until beginning to set and pour into a wetted mould. When set, turn out and serve. (93) ORANGE PUDDING. ^ oz, Cox’s GeLATiNE. 3 large or 4 small sweet Oranges. I pint Milk. 3 tablespoonfuls Castor Sugar. 3 Eggs. ^ gill of water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, and then dis- solve gently over the fire. Make a custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and strain in the Gelatine. Pare the oranges, free them from all seeds and pith, roll in sugar, place them in quarters into a deep dish, and w'hen the custard is cooled, pour it over the fruit and let it stand till firm. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add the rest of the sugar, and cover the pudding with this meringue and serve. (94) QDEEN MAB PUDDING. } oz. Cox’s Gelatine. \ lb. Macaroons. 1 pint Custard. 2 ozs. Ratafias, pint Sherry. Apricot Jam. 2 ozs. Sugar. A little cold Milk. Fill a mould with alternate layers of macaroons and ratafias, with a little jam between; saturate with the sherrj'; soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover, then dissolve over the fire. Strain into the custard, add the sugar, and pour into the mould. Set aside until firm, turn out and serve. (95) RHUBARB CHARLOTTE. ozs. Cox's Gelati.ve. ^ lb. Loaf Sugar. J lb. cut Rhubarb. pints Water, or more if The grated rind and juice or required. I Lemon. Whipped whites of 2 Eggs. Soak the Gelatine in half pint of cold water for about ten minutes. Stew the rhubarb to a pulp in the rest of the water ; add the sugar, lemon, and soaked Gelatine, made up to one quart, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir gently into the mixture. Pour into38 a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When set, turn out and serv'e with a custard made with the yolks of eggs, one pint of milk, sugar and lemon flavouring to taste. (96) APPLE CHARLOTTE. Soak the Gelatine in half-pint of cold water for ten minutes. Peel, core, and slice the apples and stew them in the remaining half pint of water till quite soft, then beat up with a fork or rub through a sieve. Add the sugar, the Gelatine, the grated rind of the lemon and its juice, and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved, but do not let it boil. Add the whipped whites of eggs and let cool. Line the mould with the sponge fingers and pour in the mixture. When firm turn out quickly into a cold dish. Serve with a custard made of the j'olks of eggs, sugar, and vanilla essence to taste. (97) APPLE FLUMMERY. 2 lbs. Apples (weighed after About i gill of Water (more or peeling and coring). less according to fruit). I lb. Sugar. i Lemon. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i gill Cream. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Peel and quarter the apples and place in a saucepan with the sugar, water (if very juicy fruit no water is required), grated rind, and strained juice of lemon, cook until quite soft. Strain through a wire sieve or beat to a pulp, add the dissolved Gelatine and stir occasionally until cool; then mix in the cream. Pour into a mould, and when set turn out and serve with custard poured over the mould, or with custard in glasses. (98) KLONDYKE MOULD. I pint Jelly (as per Recipe I i pint Blancmange (as per Recipes Pour the jelly into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Set by until quite cold and firm. Then pour in the blancmange just before it begins to set. Take great care to stir the blancmange until nearly cold before pouring into the mould. If preferred, any of the recipes for creams in this book can be used instead of the blancmange. 3 large Apples. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 4 ozs. Demerara Sugar. 2 Eggs. Grated rind and strained juice of I Lemon. Finger Sponge Cakes. 1 pint cold Water. or 3)- No. 29 to 35, using h oz. Cox’s Gelatine to i pint Milk).39 (99) LEMON JELLY AND CORNFLOUR MOULD. pints Jelly, as per Recipe ^ oz. Cornflour, I pint Milk, i oz. No. I or 3, using an extra Sugar, f gill of Water. ^ oz. Gelatine. j oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Yolks of 2 Eggs, well beaten. Essence. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, mix the cornflour with a little of the cold milk and place with the remain- ing milk and sugar in a stewpan, and boil for eight minutes. Now add_the beaten yolks of eggs and soaked Gelatine, and stir until it thickens. Then strain into a basin and add the vanilla essence. Pour into a flat mould or tin, and let set. Unmould and cut the custard into small rounds or cube shapes. Pour about two inches of the lemon jelly into a mould and let set, then put in the fancy rounds with enough jelly to set them, then continue to fill with alternate laj'ers of the jelly and custard until the mould is full. When firm, turn out and serve. (100) RICE MOULD WITH STEWED FRUIT. 3 oz. Best Rice. \ pint Custard. 1 pint Milk. \ pint Cream. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Es- Some fresh stewed Fruit, sence. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve slowly over the fire. When cool beat it up with the cream. Wash, pick, blanch and cook the rice until tender in the rest of the milk with the sugar. Turn out into a basin to cool, add the custard, dissolved Gelatine and cream. Pour into border mould previously rinsed in cold water. W^hen firm turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Fill the centre with stewed fruit. If preferred, mould in the usual way and serv'e with stewed fruit. The result is better if the rice be soaked in milk a few hours. (101) HONEYCOMB PUDDING. I oz. Gox’s Gel.\tine. i teaspoonful of Cox’s Vanilla 3 oz. Sugar. Essence. 1 pint Milk. 2 Eggs. A little Water. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes. Stir over the fire till the Gelatine is dissolved, then add the .sugar anti milk. Now add the beaten yolks of eggs and vanilla, stir until it thicken.s, but be careful not to let it boil. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir gently into the mix- ture. Pour at oHce into a mould riiiicj in cold water.40 (102) ORANGE CUSTARD PUDDING. Strained Juice of 4 sweet | gill Water. Oranges. 2 ozs. Sugar. 3 l-Sgs. I oz. Cox’s Gel.\tine. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Make a custard of the juice of the oranges and yolks of eggs, add the sugar and dissolved Gelatine and stir till it thickens. Strain into a basin. When cool and beginning to set, stir in lightly but thoroughly the whisked whites of eggs, and pour into a mould rinsed in cold water, and let stand till firm. , (103) SPANISH JELLY. !•! ■ !' I pint Jelly (as per Recipe l or ^ oz. Pistachio Nuts (blanched !■ 3)' and free from skin). || I pint of any Cream (such as A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. ’ Vanilla, Peach, Ginger, etc). [I Pour the cream smoothly on two dishes, and colour one with the cochineal. When cold, stamp it out in pretty shapes with a small I fancy cutter. Pour about two inches of the jelly into a mould, and ! let set, then scatter in the rounds of cream and a few whole pistachio nuts with enough jelly to set them. Let stand till firm, then continue to fill the mould with alternate layers of the jelly and rounds of cream until the mould is full. Let stand until set, then turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream round (if a border mould is used, in the centre). ' Colour some of the cream pink and sprinkle over it some finely chopped pistachio nuts. This mould should be made at a time when jellies and creams are being made, when the remains of both could I be advantageously used. (104) CHOCOLATE MOULD (the Children’s Favourite). f oz Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Lump Sugar. li ozs. Chocolate Powder. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Es- Thinly pared rind of i Lemon. sence. li pints Milk. J gill of Water. Put the milk into a stewpan with the sugar and lemon rind, boil up gently and remove the rind. Mix the chocolate with the boiling milk. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and dissolve slowly over the fire, then strain it into the mixture and add the vanilla essence. Siir occasionally until the mixttire thickens, and set in a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm, turn out and serve. I(lOo) MESSINA SOUFFLE. i oz. Cox’s Gel^vtixe. The juice of i Lemon. I pint Cream. 3 gill of Marsala. I gill of Water. 3 tablespoonfuls Castor Sugar. The juice of 3 Oranges. Grate off the thin rind of one orange; add this to the sugar. Dissolve the Gelatine in about three tablespoonfuls of water, and add to the above, with the strained juice of the oranges and lemon. To this add about half a gill of water and the wine, boil up, strain, and let cool. Me.anwhile, whip up the cream and stir into the above. Whisk till the mixture begins to set, then pour into a soulSe mould. Allow this to set in a cool place. When wanted, turn out the same as a jelly. Decorated with whipped cream and glace fruits, and serve. This should be set on ice to ensure turning out properly. (106) NESSELRODE BAVAROISE. A oz. Cox's Gelatene. j pint of Milk. J a Lemon. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. 3 j-olks of Eggs. I oz. Chestnut puree or pulp. ^ glass of Kirsch. J gill of Wine Jelly (Recipe 3). A few Glace Cherries and Ange- lica for garnishing. Put the milk with the thin rind of half a lemon to boil; dissolve the Gelatine in a little water or cold milk. Beat up the egg 3'olks, and add to the dissolved Gelatine. Stir with a whisk, and pour on to the boiled milk; return to the stewpan, add the sugar, and stir till it thickens. Do not let it boil. Strain through a fine sieve, incorporate the chestnut puiee and add the Kirsch, also the strained juice of the lemon. Mix the whole with one tablespoon- ful of finely shredded glace cherries. Have ready a mould lined with wine jelly and prettil3' decorated (see Recipe 25) with glace cherries and angelica cut into neat strips. When the mixture is about to set, pour it into the prepared mould. Place it on the ice or a cool place till quite set. Unmould in the usual manner, and serve. (Kfl) COLD NAPOLEON PUDDING. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 6 yolks of Eggs. l| punts Milk. ^ gill Cream. 4 ozs I-oaf Sugar. Cox’s Vanilla Essence. I Lemon. Boil the milk; rub the sugar on the rind of lemon, so as to extract the essential oil and flavour ; add this to the hot milk. Dissolve the Gelatine in a little water or milk, and when quite liquid stir it into the above. Beat up the egg yolks, and stir intothe milk to allow (he whole to get thoroughly hot over the firci stirring all the while, until the binding of the eggs is effected. On no account let it boil. Strain, add the flavouring and lemon juice, and. when sufficiently cool, the whipped cream. Mould, let it set, turn out and serve with any kind of preserved fruit. (108) MIXED FRUIT CHARLOTTE. 5 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 inch Cinnamon. 2 sour Cooking Apples. ^ pint Cream. 2 ozs. Sugar. i gill of Milk. I gill of Wine Jelly. Glace Fruit for garnish. About 15 Sponge Finger Biscuits. Put the Gelatine to soak in the milk (cold). Peel, core and slice the apples, cook them with the cinnamon and a little water till tender; then rub through a fine sieve, omitting the cinnamon. To this add the sugar, also the Gelatine, which should be heated up with the milk. Cook together for a few minutes, and strain. Cut up about a tablespoonful of glac6 fruit, cherries, apricots, angelica, etc. Mix this wnth the above, whip the cream, and stir it when the mixture is sufficiently cool. Have ready a plain Charlotte mould, the bottom of which has been well coated with a layer of wine jell3% and prettily decorated with a few cherries and angelica. Trim the biscuits, cut off the tips at one end, and range them round the inside of the tips so that they fit closely. Stir the re- mainder of jellj^ into the prepared cream, and when cool enough, fill up the mould. Great care is needed in doing this, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Place the mould on the ice or a cool place for about one and a-half hours. Dip the bottom of the mould in a little hot water for a second only, and turn out on to a suitable dish. It is then ready for table. (109) NEW CENTURY TRIFLE. 2 ozs. of Figs, in shreds. 2 ozs. of Dates in shreds. 2 Bananas. A few Green Grapes and Glacd Cherries. Syrup as below. 4 ozs. French Plums. 2 Apples. 2 Jaffa Oranges. A oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Orange Essence A teaspoonful of Brandy. Boil a pint of water and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, skim- ming as required, add the peel of one of the oranges rasped on the sugar to flavour it. Then put in the dates, figs, stoned plums, and apples in slices, sub-divided. Simmer gently until the fruit is soft, then put it into a deep dish with the bananas sliced, and oranges in sections, freed from the white skin. Add the Gelatine (soaked in a gill of water) to the syrup, dissolve it, and flavour it with a few drops of Cox’s orange essence and a tablespoonful of brand3'. There should be about a pint and a quarter. Pour over the fruitsand cover until cold. Just before serving, mask with “ New Cen- tury- Cream,” which should be stone cold (see Receipt 77). note.—.ffato/as, macaroons, and small sponge fingers should be handed with this dish; and by putting a layer of ratafias under the fruit in the dish an improvement is effected, though this is quite optional. (110) MERINGUES A LA FRUTUS. 1 pint Custard. Some Meringue cases. 2 teaspoonfuls Cox’s Frutus. \ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I little chopped Jelly (Recipe i Cr3'stallised Fruits for garnishing, or 3)- nie custard is to be flavoured with the Frutus, and the Gelatine soaked in half a gill of milk, then dissolved and strained into it; an ounce each of French plums, in dice, and crystallised pears, pink, are then to be added, and when quite on the point of setting, the cases are to be filled with the custard and set on ice to get cold. The cases for this dish are preferably coloured pink. Just before serving decorate with the jelly, some in stripes, diagonalljf; some with a central star; others with an outer ring; the greater the varietj" the better. Then put dots of multicoloured fruits here and there on the jellj^ or some may be decorated with green fruit only. This is a very effective dish if care be exercised in the arrangement, as the half meringues are just laid flat on a shallow glass dish. An outer decoration of ferns adds to the effect; and, if liked, angelica handles may be put on the meringues. NOTE.—The Gelatine must be regulated by the weather, only enough to just set the custard being used, and a good custard is essential. (111> TRIFLE A LA METZ. Some thin slices of stale Sponge Cakes. 4 to 6 ozs. of Ratafias. 4 ozs. of crystallised or glacd Fruiu*. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Red Currant and Apricot Jams. A little Jelly (Recipe i or 3) I pint of Custard. ^ pint Milk. A teaspoonful Cox’s Frutus. Spread the slices of cake with the jams alternately, and build up in the form of a brick, but rather smaller. A few of the ratafias should be crumbled and used as a central layer. Warm the milk and add the flavouring es.sences when just tepid and use for soak- ing the cake, which must be in a good sized glass dish. The Gela- tine is to be soaked and dis.solvcd in a little milk, and strained into the custard to give it a good consistence. Pour this over the cake, and when cold and firm place the ratafias in rows over-lapping on top, leaving space between for the garnish of chopped jelly and fruits of several colours, according to taste. A few ratafias 4^44 should be placed round the trifle base, and they should be soaked in the flavoured milk, like the cake. The custard requires but little sweetening. NOTE.—jlMs is novel in fla/oourand shape, and mavy mho find dishes rnith co'eam too rich, mill enjoy it. (112) UNITED KINGDOM PUDDING. pints of Custard. 2 ozs. Glac6 Cherries. 2 ozs. French Plums. 5-id. Sponge Cakes. 2 or 3 ozs. Preserved Ginger. A tablespoonful or more ot Cox’s Frutus. oz. Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine. Some Purple Grapes. Some Silver Bon-bons. A glass of Brandy. A glass of Ginger Syrup. Decorate the bottom of a fancy shaped mould with the cherries and French plums, cut up, making a star, or any other design. Put the cakes in in thin slices, with the ginger and the rest of the plums and cherries in layers. Pour the brandy over mixed with the ginger syrup, leave for an hour, then make the custard (with a pint of milk, a gill of cream, 3 ozs. of sugar, the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs), soak and dissolve the Gelatine in a little extra milk, strain it into the custard, and pour over the cakes, after adding the Frutus. Place in ice and salt, or in an ice cave until cold, turn out and decorate the base with the grapes, adding a few small ferns, or other greenery. The bon-bons look best dotted about on little heaps of chopped wine jelly, but they may be used on the top of the puddirg as a border, and omitted at the base. This is a very delicious dish, and a good substitute for the more expensive iced puddings. It is improved by mari- nading the fruits in a spoonful or two of thin syrup flavoured strongly with Frutus. (113) TIPSY PINEAPPLE. I good-sized preserved Pine- apple. I pint (about) Ginger Cream (Recipe 44.) i pint whipped Cream, coloured green with Cox’s Chlorophyll 2 tablespoonsful Brandy. Syrup as below. A few blanched Pistachios, in strips. Cox’s Essence of Pineapple. A little Jelly (Recipe i, 3, or 12). Place the pine on the dish it is to be served in ; cut out the centre, leaving a compact wall. Boil the syrup with a few ounces of sugar until thick, and flavour with the brandy, when cool. Then add the essence. Pour some of this over the pine until it is well coated ; repeat a few times. Any spare syrup must be poured from the dish. Now fill up the centre of the pine w'ith the ginger cream (Recipe 44) when on the point of setting. The whipped cream is to be used as a garnish for the base of the fruit, with small heaps of jellybetween. Put a little of the jelly on the top, also chopped, and decorate it with the pistachio spikes. note.—This is most co^iveniently made when a rmviber of STveets are in request for a party. The surplus syrup OAidpine will make another dish. If preferred, more brandy and lets syrup may be used for the soaking of the fruit. Ihe whipped cream should be sweetened and flavoured with pineapple essence. The jelly may be lemon, wine, or gold-leaf. (114) DAMSON MERINGUE. I lb. ripe Damsons or ^Ib. Red i oz. Sweet Almonds. Plums. The whites of 2 Eggs. 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 2 oz. Castor Sugar. •i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Blancmange (Recipe 29). Rinse the fruit, cover with cold water, cook until half done, add the sugar and finish the cooking. Strain; there should be a pint of juice; make it up, if necessary with water. Add the Gelatine, soaked in a little water, stir until dissolved, and add the fruit. The blancmange should be poured and left to set in a deep dish, and the stoned damsons put on the top. Make a meringue of the eggs and castor sugar. Blanch, chop, and bake the almonds a light brown ; sprinkle them over the fruit, then slide the meringue mixture rockily over it. Dredge with sugar, and brown slightly with a heated shovel or salamander. The fruit kernels may also be added to the fruit. The amount of sugar must be regarded as approximate. Serve cold. (115) GATEAU DE PRUNES. A Madeira Cake, about i lb. in i pint Claret Jelly (Recipe 4). weight. Green Cream Leaves. I lb. French Plums. Crystallised Roses. 6 oza. Loaf Sugar. Cox’s Essence of Cinnamon Green Glacd Fruits. Boil the plums in water to cover until nearly soft, add the sugar and finish the cooking, when the syrup should be nearly absorbed ; add the flavouring and set aside to get cold. The cake should be baked in a border mould. Put it on the dish for serving, and coat the exterior with some of the jelly, melted, but on the point of setting. Pour it from the top; any that runs on to the dish can be removed when cold. Then pile the fruit in the centre, covering each layer with the rest of the jelly chopped. Bring the fruit to a point. On the top of the cake border put the leaves and roses (very few of the latter), and garnish the base of the cake with a few glace almonds or rather fruits. The fruit may be used with equal success for rice or blanc- mange borders ; it is effective in appearance and very delicious in flavour, and stands out well amongst other sweets of paler colours. The kernels improve the flavour. Use very few drops of essence in flavouring.(116) FIGS A LA VIOLET. I lb. pulled Figs. Sugar. 1 gill Rum. Lemon Rind. 2 Eggs. ^ pint Cream. i pint Lemon Jelly (Recipe i or 3). I oz. Crystallised Violets. A little Green Jelly (coloured with Cox’s Chlorophyll Green). Cut the figs into four, cover them with a syrup ot water (about half a pint), the rum, and two ounces of loaf sugar, all boiled together ; grate in the rind of half a lemon ; cover, and leave for six hours at least, or all night will not hurt. The fruit is to be softened without boiling. Put all into a deep glass dish, melt the jelly and stir it in thoroughly and carefully. Prepare the sauce m the following way, which requires care. Beat the egg yolks and two ounces of castor sugar (thicken them slightly by beating over a gentle heat, "custard fashion,’’then beat, off the fire, until cold). Whip the cream, adcf it to the egg yolks with a little of Cox’s Liquid Saffron, and the stiffly-beaten white of one egg with a tablespoonful of castor sugar. Slide this foaming yellow mixture on to the figs, and dot the violets about it in little bunches with green jelly leaves. (See Recipe 27.) Serve icy cold with Angel or any similar cake, or with ice wafers. NOTE.—Maraschino jelly may replace the lemon for a change. (117) GREENGAGE PUDDING A LA CORONA. I lb. ripe Greengages. Syrup. Flavouring. Stale Madeira or Rice Cake. Colouring. i pint thick Custard. Jelly leaves (Recipe 27). oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Macaroons. Take a brick-shaped mould and line it with thm slices of the cake. Skin the fruit and cook it in a svrup made by boiling half a pint of water and six ounces of loaf sugar for ten minutes. Skim as required. Strain the syrup, about a pint, cr make it up to that quantity; add the Gelatine, soaked and dissolved in a little water, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a few drops of Cox’s Chlorophyll Green. Remove the stones, blanch and split the kernels, add them, then fill up the mould, putting a thin layer of cake here and there, and a single layer of macaroons in the middle. Cover with another slice of cake, and put by to set, over ice if hand}’. Turn out on to a good-sized glass dish, oblong or oval, and pour the custard all over the pudding, the top excepted. Garnish that with a border of green leaves (see Recipe 27) with a few of the best halves of the fruit in the centre. Garnish the base of the pudding with more leaves or green jelly, whipped or chopped. This is a delicious pudding; other kinds of plums may be similarly used. 1547 Saoouries and Aspic Jellies. (IIS) ASPIC JELLY. li ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. I teaspoonful of Salt. 1 tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 2 small peeled Onions. I tablespoonful of Malt or French Vinegar. A few Allspice Berries. I Carrot. Rind and juice of i Lemon. 6 to 8 white Peppercorns. Whites and shells of 2 Eggs. Enough Celery Seed to cover a threepenny bit. 15^ pints Cold Water. ^ gill of Sherry. A little Caj-enne Pepper. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients into a stewpan and whisk until it boils ; let simmer for ten minutes, and strain through a clean coarse cloth previously steeped in hot water. This cloth should be tied into a soup stand or on the legs of a chair reversed. Return the jelly through the cloth until clear, each time placing a clean hot basin underneath instead of the one removed. Pour into a mould and use as required when set. (119) CHEESE AND ASPIC SAVOURY. 1 gill Aspic Jelly (Recipe Ii8). 2 ozs. Butter. 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan Cheese. 2 5’olks of Eggs. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. Scraps of Puff Pastrj'. Line some fancy patty pans with the pastry. Put the butter, j^olks, cheese, and seasoning into a stewpan and stir over a gentle heat till the mixture thickens. Half fill the prepared patty pans with the mixture and bake. When cold pour over each a tea- spoonful of liquid Aspic Jelly. When set decorate with chopped parsley, chervil leaves, etc., and set the decoration with a tea- spoonful of Jelly. .Serve on a fancy paper or serviette with sprigs of (jarsley. (120) SAVOURY JELLY. ^ oz. Cox's Gelatine. Dice of Chicken Svveetbread or I pint Beef Tea. Meat. Soak the Gelatine in a little water for ten minutes, then dissolve over a gentle fire. Strain into the beef tea. Set a layer of this at the bottom of a mould, then put in a laj'er of dice of chicken, game, ham, or other meats as de.sired. Just cover with more beef jelly, and when set, continue putting in layers of the meat and covering with the beef jelly until the mould is full. When firm, tiini quickly on to a cold dish. Garnish with a little salad.(121) ASPIC JELLY FOR DECORATION. Pour the Aspic Jelly (Recipe Il8) into a clean tin or dishi which must be quite clean and free from grease, a quarter of an inch deep. When quite set cut out in leaves or any design for decorating cold hams, tongues, etc. This jelly should be used to mask savoury moulds. (122) GLAZE. I dessertspoonful of strong Beef ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Tea. i pint Water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and then stir gently over the fire until dissolved. Add the beef tea and boil down until it coats a spoon ; it will take about ten minutes. Pour into a jar and keep it tightly covered with bladder. When wanted for use stand the jar in boiling water and dissolve. A small piece added to soups and gravies is a great improvement. When used for coating tongues a little colouring should be added. (123) VEAL CAKE (Breakfast Dish). ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ lb. streaky Bacon. ^ lb. Fillet Veal. i pint Stock. 2 hard-boiled Eggs. A little grated Lemon rind. Parsley, Prpper, and Salt. Cut the eggs into thick slices and line the bottom of a plain well-buttered cake tin. Now cut the veal and bacon into dice and place a layer on the top of the eggs, add chopped parsley, season- ings, and grated lemon rind. Fix two or three slices of egg on to the sides of the tin, then fill up with alternate layers of egg, veal, bacon, parsley, etc., until two-thirds full. Dissolve the Gelatine in the stock gently over the fire, and strain into the tin until quite full. Place a greasy paper over it and bake in a slow oven for one hour and a-half. Remove from the oven and set by until cold. Place the tin for one moment in hot water and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and serve. (124) EGGS IN ASPIC JELLY. 1 pint Aspic Jelly (see No. Ii8) i teaspoonful Anchovy Paste I oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. 3 hard-boiled Eggs. Remove the shells from the eggs, take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar with the butter, anchovy paste, pepper and salt, and pass through a sieve. Roll into six small balls. Take six small dariole moulds and mask the inside of each mould with a thin layer of jelly, decorate with some fancifully cut pieces of hard-boiled whites of eggs, and let set; then put in the balls and fill up with the jelly. When set, turn out on to a dish and gar- nish with mustard and cress, finely shredded lettuce, and ser\'e. Prawns may be used in place of the eggs. ■1849 (125) CHICKEN IN JELLY. I pint Stock. A little grated Lemon rind. Parsley, Pepper and Salt. 1 oz. Cox’s Gel.\tine. ^ lb. Cooked Fowl. J lb. Cooked Bacon or Ham. 2 hard-boiled Eggs. Mask a mould with aspic jelly and decorate it with fancifully cut pieces of the white of egg. Cut the chicken and bacon into dice and place a layer on the top of the eggs, add a little chopped parsley, seasonings, and grated lemon rind. Fix two or three slices of eggs into the side of the mould. Then fill up with alternate layers of aspic jelly, eggs, chicken, bacon, parsley, etc., until two-thirds full. Dissolve the Gelatine over the fire in the stock ; strain into the mould until quite full. When set, turn out quickly on to a cold dish and ser\'e. (126) TOMATO JELLY. to ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. I teaspoonful of Salt. lbs ripe Tomatoes. I dessertspoonful Tomato Ketchup. Soak the Gelatine in half a J teaspoonful of Sugar. of Tarragon tablespoonful Vinegar. ij pints cold Water. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal, pint of cold water for about ten minutes. Slice the tomatoes and stew them gently in one pint of water until soft, add dissolved Gelatine, salt, sugar, sauces, and cochineal, and mix thoroughly. Strain through a fine sieve or coarse cloth scalded. Pour into a border mould rinsed in cold water, and allow to set. Serve with chicken, lobster or salmon mayonnaise in the centre. (127) A VERY EFFECTIVE GARNISH, No. 1. Pour a thin layer of aspic (Recipe Ii8). on to a dish, and when on the point of setting, cover it with alternate rows of macaroni, boiled and cut in thin rings, and chopped shrimps. In the centre of the little rings put a spot of the chopped skin of pickled walnuts and parsley or gherkin alternately. Coat with more aspic, and when cold, stamp out wdth a good sized diamond shaped cutter, and use for garnishing fish salads, or a salmon mayonnaise, or any similar dish, (Usefully borne in mind when eggs are dear, the macaroni taking the place of the whites, while walnuts are an economical substitute for the costly truffle). (128) A VERY EFFECTIVE GARNISH, No 2. Pour a layer of aspic over an oblong dish ; when ncarl}' set, p>as3 the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, letting the “shower of gold’’fall on to the jelly. It sliould be evenly covered. Now make a design—trellis work is very pretty —with tiny sprigs of chervil, small cress, or other salad. A chopped beetroot instead of or with the green is effective, or the whites of eggs may be chopped or cut with critnped round or oval D50 cutters, and used for a bolder design. Cover with more aspic, and when firm cut out, and use for the breast of a boiled fowl or turkey, or any similar purpose. The same makes a nice decoration for raised game pies if cut into blocks or other shapes for the border. (129) JELLIED GRAVY FOR RAISED PIES. 2 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 12 White Peppercorns. 1 quart Water. * Flavouring, Herbs, &Ci 1 teaspoonful Salt. Boil the peppercorns in some of the water with the flavouring herbs, &c., for about twenty minutes ; soak the Gelatine in the rest of the water, then add it to the contents of the saucepan, stir until dissolved, and add the salt, then strain for use. This may be regarded as the average strength, and is a good foundation, as it may be varied in the matter of adjuncts ; for example : * For veal pies add a sprig of thyme and parsley, strip of lemon rind, and a drop of Cox’s Essence of Mace. For pork, use sage instead of the herbs named. For game a little stock may replace water, or wine may be added ; the same applies to beef pies, for which browning essence or browning salt may be used. Flavoured vinegars are occasionally used both for veal and chicken pies; but whatever the additions, omit the water in like proportions. To heighten the flavour, a few drops of Tabasco pepper sauce may be used, or a few chillies boiled in the stock. Do not add ground pepper ; it sinks in cooling. To ornament the tops of pies. Aspic Jelly is required. (See Recipe 118). For pies in dishes, good gravy of this sort may be added after baking; it ensures firmness, and is useful for al fresco fare when the dishes have to travel. (130) GRAVY SOUP, ECONOMICAL aaid SIMPLE. 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. A glass of Sherry. 1 quart Water. Liquid Browning. 2 tablespoonsfuls Dried Julienne. A pinch of Celery Seed. I teaspoonful Extract of Meat. 5 teaspoonful Salt. 1 dessertspoonful Cornflour. 6 Black Peppercorns. A sprig of Th3'me and Parsley, i Clove, and a Bay Leaf. 2 Allspice. Rinse the vegetables and herbs, put them to soak in the water, tepid, for an hour ; bring to the boil with a little salt, and skim as required ; add the seasonings and cook for an hour. Strain, return to the saucepan, add the Gelatine, soaked meanwhile in a little cold water and the extract; then the cornflour mixed to a paste with cold water, and a small lump of sugar. Boil for ten rninutes, to cook the cornflour ; add a drop or two of liquid browning and the sherry, and serve as soon as it re-boils.51 note.— Recipe No. HQis onethat maybe varied considerably. It ivill enable anyone at short notice to provide a good no^trishing sonp if supply of gelatine, meat extract, o/nd dried vegetables form part of the contents of the store cupboard, and mill be useful to all mho have not facilities for malting jellied stock from meat and bones. (131) A GOOD BREAKFAST PATE. i pint Aspic Jelly (No. Ii8). Some Streaky Bacon. Butter a china mould, line with the bacon in strips, then put a layer of sausage meat at the bottom and sides, after mixing it with the flesh of the rabbit, passed through a mincer. Fill up with the joints of pheasant, well-seasoned, the tongue and eggs sliced, and any remaining sausage meat. Cover with more bacon in slices. Bake in a very moderate oven for three to four hours. Remove the bacon, and pour in gradually some well-favoured stock, made from the trimmings of the rabbit and pheasants, with enough Gela- tine added to set it (about three-quarters of an ounce to the pint). When cold, remove any fat from the top, cover with the whites and sieved yolks of two or three more eggs, then coat with a thin layer of aspic. As soon as set it is ready to serve. NOTE.—A second rabbit may be used in joints, if liked. (132) JELLIED CHICKEN. Boil a tender chicken in good stock with some vegetables until sufficiently cooked. Let it remain in the liquor until cold. Take it up, remove the skin and carefully cut all the meat off, trim into neat fillets or rounds. Decorate a mould with some tiny sprigs of chervil and tarragon, or truffle, and the red meat of tongue, cut into stars, etc. Arrange the chicken in neat layers, seasoning nicely and packing closely. Fill up the mould with aspic jelly as per Recipe Ii8, and set aside to cool. Garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs, tiuy rolls of curled ham, and tufts of parsley. (133) PHEASANT IN ASPIC 1 pint Aspic Jelly (Recipe Ii8). A few slices of Tongue. The remains of a cold Pheasant. Truffle and White of Egg for Prepare one pint of aspic jelly and pour into the bottom of a mr/uld about half an inch thick, decorate with the truffle in star or crescent shape.s, the white of egg and tongue, and pour in more jelly to set the garnishing. Cut up the phea.sant into neat slices, and free from all fat, and then arrange the slices in layers, setting each with the jelly until the mould is full. .Set on ice, and when firm, turn out and serve with a garnish of parslc3’. lib. Pork Sausage Meat. 1 Rabbit (Young). 2 Pheasants. I Sheep’s Tongue, boiled. 3 hard-boiled Eggs. Seasoning. Stock. Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine. decoration.52 inoalia Recipes. It is not so generally known as it should be how extremely useful an article Gelatine may become to the doctor and nurse. The old time halo which surrounded the use of home-made Calf’s Foot Jelly has largely passed away, together with all the time and trouble which making it Involved. But as a grateful, refreshing and palatable method of conveying nourishment to the invalid, PURE Gelatine is still unrivalled. Gelatine, however, is an article requiring so much care and cleanliness in its manufacture, that the doctor or nurse cannot exercise too great vigilance in the selection of the article used. Repeated chemical analyses have demonstrated that COXS GELATINE IS ABSO- LUTELY PURE AND HIGHLY REFINED. Gelatine is useful to give body to Soups, etc., where ordinary thickening of cereals is not suited to the case. SAVOURIES. (134) INVALID BEEF TEA JELLY. ^ oz. Cox's GtLATiNE. ^ pint Strong Beef Tea. Make half a pint of gocd beef tea and strain into a basin. Soak the Gelatine in a little water, then dissolve over a gentle heat and strain into the beef tea. Season and pour into small moulds rinsed in cold water or into china cases. When firm, dip the moulds into hot water, and turn quickly out on to a dish—or if in china c.ises, serve in the case. Increase the Gelatine in warm weather. This is usefully remembered in the case of invalids on tepid diet, as it is very palatable and soothing in that form. (135) VERMICELLI SOUP (for Invalids). I lb. of Meat (Beef, Mutton, i oz. Vermicelli. Veal, alone or mixed, Poultry 3 pints cold Water, cuttings). Seasoning if allowed. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Cut up the meat and place with all the ingredients into a jar (first having soaked the Gelatine in the cold water) and soak for an hour, then simmer for seveial hours, stirring from time to time. Strain through a sieve. This may be given to an invalid in the form of a jelly, or again may be taken up hot with the addition of a little milk or cream, added at the time of serving.53 (136; MEAT JELLY WITH VERMICELLI. ^ lb. lean Neck of Mutton. J oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ lb. Beef (from thick part of pints cold Water. leg). I tablespoonful of Brandy. I oz. Vermicelli. Seasoning (unless for acute ill- A little Salt. ness). Soak the Gelatine in half a pint of water for about ten minutes. Cut the meat very small and put into a pint of water for an hour, place over the fire and bring to the boil. Then add the other ingredients (except the brandy), and simmer for four or five hours down to less than a pint, skimming well in the early stage ot cooking; strain carefully through a sieve, and free from all fat. Add the hrandy. Pour into small dariole moulds, and serve as required. If preferred, the jelly could be served as beef tea. Other meats, also poultry, may be similarly used. (137) A VERY USEFUL STOCK. I lb. Gravy Beef. I lb. Mutton. 3 pints cold Water. i teaspoonful Salt. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. The meat should be fresh and lean, and cut small. Put it into a' jar, with two and a-half pints of water and the salt, and cook it over the fire in a saucepan of water for five to six hours. Or it may be cooked in a slow oven for a more savoury stock. The Gelatine should be soaked in the rest of the water and added to the stock half-an-hour before it is done. Strain through a fine sieve, pressing the meat well; then leave to cool; remove any fat from the surface, and re-heat as required. NOTE.—SJdm as needed, and in ma/rm weather, use rather more Gelatine and make only half this quantity. This is available for a number of purposes. Extra seasoning can be added in the form cf peppercorns or Cloves, or Cox’s Essence Cloves, just a few drops. It may be flawoureu roith wine and served cold. Again, it may be co'nverted into a oery nourishing soup, by adding a little cream or a beaten egg to a gill, and re-heating, XOT re-boiling it. (13%) MEAT AND EGG SOUP. pints Water. ^ lb. Beef and Veal. 2 Egg.s. Seasoning if allowed. ^ 02. Cox’s Gelatine. Mince the meat (lean and/>rs/ij,and cook it beef-tea fashion in a pint of the water for two hours, then strain. Soak the Gelatine in the rest of the water, dissolve and strain it into the liquor. Beat the yolks of egg.s, removing the specks, and add the liquor a spoonful at a time at first, beating well. When blended, re-heat, and serve hot or trepid, with toast or plain biscuits. This is useful where nourishment is required, but where only weak meat dishes are allowed.54 Another way.—Proceed as before, but at the time of serving, instead of cooking eggs in the liquor, pour a cupful of it over a lightly poached egg in the soup plate. And if more body is pre- ferred, a little boiled rice may be added. A mild flavouring of curry powder or paste (for convalescents) is often relished for this class ot soup ; so is tomato sauce or catsup; even a few drops add zest to the dish. (139) PHEASANT PUREE. lb. of Raw Pheasant, prefer- i Egg. ably the breast. • ^ oz. Butter. 5 pint of Stock and Milk mixed. \ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Mince the meat and pound it with the yolk of egg and butter, and a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and a drop or two of Cox’s Essence of Cloves. Sieve this. Soak the Gelatine in the stock, add the milk, and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is melted; put in the meat, and cook in a double pan for twent5' minutes or more. Serve with dry toast or plain biscuits. Another way.—Reduce the stock and milk to the third of a pint, and cook the mixture in little moulds for cold seiwice, or to use for sandwiches. Other game, or game and poultry can be used similarly, and cream may replace butter. (140) RAW BEEF SANDWICHES. A New Mode. A Beef Steak (about 2 or 3 ozs.) Seasoning if allowed. 1 gill of Water. i gill of Cream. 5- oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Scrape the pulp from a lean fresh steak by laying it flat on a plate. Use a sharp knife, and scrape from you, leaving nothing behind but the skin. Soak and then dissolve the Gelatine in the water, and when cool mix in the cream, then the meat, which should be prepared the last thing. About two or three ounces will be wanted. Pour out on a flat dish to get quite cold, then either stamp it out in rounds and place between thin slices of bread and butter the same size and shape, or cut it in dice and make the sandwiches in the usual way. note.—In extreme illness this mode is not suitable; but con- valescents will find it very acceptable. A few drops of Cox's Essence of Cloves or Cinnamwn inipo'ove the flavoxir. (141) TASTY FISH SAUCE. ^ pint Milk. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I Egg. 4 pint Fish Stock. J oz. Butter or one tablespoonful of Cream. Seasoning as below.Soak the Gelatine in the strained stock (made from the bones and trimmings of any white fish), then dissolve it, and add the milk heated with the butter or cream. The egg should be beaten and strained, and the hot mixture added by degrees, and well beaten. Salt and pepper if allowed, and a drop or two of Cox’s Lemon Essence, with a few drops of Anchovy Essence complete the sauce. A slice of onion or a sprig of parsley may be simmered in the stock for further flavour if desired. NOTE.—Re-htat carefully after adding the egg. Useful to serve with fish, or to re-heat cold fish . For a hetter sauce, use one egg to a gill of the mixed stock a/nd milk. SWEETS. (142) PORT WINE JELLY. to 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine (according to temperature). 1 pint Water. I pint Port Wine. Strained juice ot 2 Lemons, and the thinly cut rind of I Lemon. 5 ozs. Sugar. White of I Egg whisked, the shell crushed. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients into a stewpan and whisk together until it boils, allow to boil up well for about ten minutes without stirring, let simmer for ten minutes. Take off the fire, and let stand five minutes, and strain through a coarse cloth scalded. When clear, set in a mould rinsed in cold water, and let stand until firm. It is recommended that this jelly should be set in ice Turn out quickly on to a cold dish, and serve with a little slightly sweetened whipped cream. This jelly is better flavoured if the wine is added at the moment of .straining, and if left uncleared. The sugar here, and elsewhere in this section, should be regarded as approximate; invalids having sometimes a great aversion to much sugar. 3 ozs. .Sugar. The grated rind and strained juice of 1 Lemon. (14.3) EGG JELLY. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I pint Water. Well-beaten yolks of 4 Eggs. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then place it in a stewpan with the sugar and lemon, and stir over the fire until the mixture comes to the simmering point. Have ready the well-beaten yolks of the eggs in a basin, and add to them the contents of the stewpan. Stir over the fire for a few seconds, but do not let it boil. When nearly cold, strain into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. If wanted for an invalid, set in little moulds, in order that it may be served in conveniently small quantities, so ess^mtial in sick-room cookery. This is a soothing drink in a liquid warm state.56 (144) GRAPE JELLY. ^ pint Water. ^ lb. Loaf Sugar. lbs. Ripe Purple Grapes. 2 tablespoonfuls of Brandy, f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Dissolve the Gelatine in the water. Put the grapes into a sauce- pan, bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon until the juice flows freely, strain them without pressure through two or three thicknesses of muslin, and when clear boil it with the dissolved Gelatine for ten minutes. Add the brandy and pour into the mould, and allow to set. If the grapes are very juicy, use one-quarter ounce more of Gelatine. (145) AMBER JELLY. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ pint strained Lemon Juice. 4 yolks of Eggs or 2 whole 4 ozs. Castor Sugar. Eggs. J pint Water. J pint Sherry or Marsala. i Lemon rind, thinly cut. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then put all the ingredients into a saucepan and whisk over the fire until thick, but do not let it boil. Strain and set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. Turn on to a cold dish and serve. This jelly is excellent; the eggs are very nourishing, and the wine and lemon juice give it a delicious flavour. (146) GLOUCESTER JELLY. I oz. Ground Rice. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I oz. Sago. 2 quarts Cold Water. I oz. Pearl Barley. Soak the Gelatine in a little of the cold water for about ten minutes, then put all into a saucepan and boil gently until the liquid is reduced to one quart (about two hours), strain and put aside until wanted. It may be sweetened and flavoured, and eaten like jelly, or a few spoonfuls of it may be dissolved in milk, tea or broth. It is nourishing and easily digested. (147) LEMON CREAMS. J oz. Ccx’ Gelatine. 4 oz. Sugar. 2 Eggs. I wineglass of Brandy. The strained juice of i Lemon. 5 pint Whipped Cream. I gill of Water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then place in a saucepan with the eggs well beaten, butter, sugar, and lemon juice, and stir until the mixture slightly thickens and the Gelatine is dissolved. Strain into a basin. Add the brandy and cream, and set in dariole moulds. 1 his is a useful recipe where cream forms part of the diet.(14S) BROWN BREAD CREAM. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Brown Bread Crumbs. 4 oz. Castor Sugar. i pint Cream. A few drops of Cox’s Vanilla i pint Milk. Essence. Soak the Gelatine in half a pint of cold milk for about ten minutes. Prepare the bread crumbs, then pour over them half a pint of boiling milk, add the sugar, vanilla, and dissolved Gelatine, and stir until dissolved. When cool add the cream well beaten, and mould. A little brandy or wine can be added as the doctor orders. (149) BAYAROISE. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i gill Milk. I wine glass of Brandj-. 2 ozs. Sugar. J pint Cream. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire with the sugar. Whip the cream and add the brandy. Stir in the strained Gelatine and sugar. Set in small moulds and turn out when firm. (150) DIGESTIBLE PUDDING SAUCES. Very excellent pudding sauces may be made by taking either of the blancmange mixtures while warm, and adding a little of Cox’s Essence of Orange, Lemon, Cloves, etc., according to the nature of the dish. Those on cream diet will find the following very delicious. Beat together a teaspoonful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and a gill of milk, in which a quarter of an ounce ot Cox’s Gelatine has been dissolved. Heat and flavour with wine, brandy, or either of Cox's Essences. A little fruit syrup will be eujoyed by some as a flavouring. Cox'S Elfin Jellies made with about two-thirds the prescribed measure of water, used while hot, are nice with batter and similar puddings; and all these are useful where sauces thickened with flour and butter would disagree. With the aid of Cox’s .Specialities, a variety of dainty dishes of this class may be obtained at little cost. lit58 TJe of (gelatine in fflil^ doo^ei^j. By LIZZIE HERITAGE. Reprmted from The Epicure, hy kind permission of the Editor. ~y ' HE object of this paper is not to discuss the question of the precise nutritive value of gelatine. It is now generally accepted that while it cannot replace true albuminates, j'et it approaches them in chemical composition, and because it undergoes changes rapidly and easily in the body, it is a good substitute when stronger foods containing albumen are not well tolerated. It is stated that gelatine added to milk makes it more digestible; the curds become much finer, and digestion is thereby facilitated. It is certain (and one of the objects of this article is to emphasise the point) that milk, to which added “body” is given by gelatine, is often much better borne by the sick and convalescent than milk alone; another point is that such fare has in it more staying power, while a third, of perhaps the greatest moment, is that a convalescent on the way from slops to solids may, by a judicious use of gelatine, reach the goal by easy stages instead of, as is too often the case, jumping straight from milk or gruel to a mutton-chop or beef-steak. Pure gelatine is, of course, of primary importance; “Cox's Sparkling ” is always reliable, strong, economical in use, and dis- solves readily—ten minutes’ soaking suffices, although when longer time can be given it is all the better, and the melting is facilitated. In this matter of quick preparation, it compares favourably with “ leaf” gelatine, while its strength is nearly double. Turning to one of Messrs. J. & G. Cox’s own recipes for a blancmange made from § ounce of gelatine to pints of milk, with sugar and flavouring to taste, it may be instanced as particularly “ creamy,” although no cream is added ; this is owing to the excellence of the gelatine and its pure flavour. But this recipe iu intelligent hands is most useful. With half the quantity, or there- abouts, a famous hot drink is obtained, which may be further fortified with brandy or other spirit, according to the needs of the patient, or with the yolk of an egg, with or without spirit. Such a " nightcap ” would often be highly beneficial, and stave off hunger in a satisfactory way, even in cases where bread and milk or anything of the kind would be unsuitable. In some instances, naturally, further solidification is permissible.A mixture of barley-water and milk deserves very careful atten- tion in this connection. Barlej'-water, as is well known, facilitates the digestion of milk, and supposing half a pint ol each (assuming thick barlej'-water), allow about half an ounce of gelatine, first soaking and dissolving it in the milk and straining it into the barley- water while hot. This, whether taken hot or tepid, is soothing in almost all chest complaints ; for drinking cold, use even less gelatine. It should be regarded as a skeleton recipe, for its variations are limitless. A morsel of meat essence or extract, a spoonful of wine or brandj', the yolk of an egg, and a dash of cream, are but a few of the adjuncts which are indicated by special cases. Gelatine may also be added to thin gruels and allied foods, whether made from oatmeal, cornflour, or any other cereal; many unable to take a basin of such food of the usual consistence, would enjoy it, thinned down by the addition of milk and gelatine, thereby get- ting bodj' and smoothness, with less than the ordinary solidity. It should be thin enough to drink, and the most fastidious invalid would enjoy it, as a rule. In soups for the invalid, gelatine may also be most satisfactorily employed. In the first place, in those of a purely milk and vegetable order, whatever the recipe or the proportions of the several ingredients, the gelatine should be separately dissolved in some of the milk and added last thing, after the sieving (where necessary) of the compound. Such a soup is more digestible than one thickened with roux or flour, for, as most people are aware, after an illness everything containing butter and starch, either alone or together, must be shunned for a considerable time. Here gelatine comes to the rescue, and it is particularly noteworthy when soups must be taken in the tepid condition. The second range of soups and broths for use with gelatine aSbrd a wide scope, including those made from meat and cereals, and weak meat broth, or soup, or tea, with milk. Sometimes the meat flavour has to be scarcely perceptible, either to meet a doctor's orders or to please a fastidious palate. Then many object to a thin soup, and will appreciate it the better for the body so easily imparted by gelatine. I add a special recipe for a soup which has met with universal acceptance. A pound of meat (beef, mutton, veal, or a mixture— poultry cuttings may be used if liked), an ounce each of vermicelli and Cot’s Gelatine, three pints of cold water, and seasoning if allowed. Cut the meat up, place all in a jar, and soak for an hour, then cook in a water bath for several hours, breaking up the meat from time to time to prevent clotting. Sieve it, letting all go through but the meat. 1 his may be taken hot or tepid, or cold as a jelly; again, milk or cream may be added at the time of serving. Generally, half this quantity will be sufficient for each preparation. Finally, i.s not cow-heel baked in milk a time-honoured dish ? Try baked milk with gelatine, it is delicious, and the one is always obtainable and pure, while the other is frequently unobtainable and entails much trouble.(^’S REFINED SPARK UNO GEL?\T1NE FOR USE WITH RECIPES IN THIS BOOK. Note the Red, White, and Blue Cox Tartan Packets. ICOX’S REF!»E0 SPASUaiHC CELA11NE. CUARANTRBO ABSOtUTBtY PURE. «imJ oI lbs blitbiMi quaHit maeafteturtd. Unrivalled mskmi, RICH CRVS'.ALLINE JBU.Y. kod cmo oUmt X>Aintx'^uh«* •OLD TO r^Z PWSLIO IN PAORSTZ ONLY. *lcM eeeacKfwIoM •. tuw that Coa'l CtLATlAt la apMV aai iiaa<aWara<id »;«lck «t B. Gair rmu, Pi 0, r.AA EAU. * '.^ikd «aJ A«a«A Ivfil Ce«»ht« Pac%«l brUt (V I f MMf «J‘jMaATUKRldr I OnfcatEwii wrertan, Note the Red, White, I and Blue I Cox Tartan Packets. No mistake can possibly be made in recognising Cox’s Gelatine. No other maker can legally imitate the unique design which has made Cox’s Packages easily identified during the past sixty years. Be sure to get the RED, WHITE and BLUE design, which is known throughout the world. Cox’s Gelatine is also put up in handsome 1-lb. Enamelled Tins, the contents sealed with the firm’s seal. COX’S ‘‘Instant” powama eelatine. In Small Packets, also in Tins containing I, I, and 1 lb. net. THIS GELATINE REQUIRES NO SOAKING, AND CAN BE USED FOR ANY RECIPE IN THIS BOOK. eo61 COX’S “ELFIN” TABLET JELLIES. Best Pure Sugar and Delicate Flavourings, LIST OF FLAVOURS: Lemon, Orange, Pine Apple, Straw= berry, Cherry, Damson, Almond, Vanilla, Noyeau, Black Currant, Red Currant, Calf’s Foot, Apricot, Raspberry, Champagne, Port, Plain. COXS “ELFIN” TABLET JELLIES have been introduced by J. & Q. COX, Ltd., to meet the great demand for Jelly in this form. By reason of the exceptional quality of the material used they are unequalled by any other on the market and the handsome packets in green and gold are fully copyrighted, and can be readily dis- tinguished from other and cheaper makes.62 “WANDA” Essences l-oz., 1-oz., 2=oz, and 4=oz. bottles. “WANDA” Essences 1 0Ztf 2^0z»f and 4-0Z., b0ttles* “ Wanda Essences. (Tra.dc Mark.) These are put up in i»oz., i-oz,, z-oz., and 4=oz. Bottles, labelled as above. List of Flavours :—Aimond, Celery, Cinnamon, Cloves, Ginger, Lemon, Maraschino, Mace, Noyeau, Nutmeg, Orange, Peach, Pineapple, Quince, Raspberry, Ratafia, Strawberry, Vanilla. List of ColouringsCarmine, Cochineal, Liquid Saffron, Chorophyii (Vegetable) Green. j. & G. cox. Ltd., their uniform strength, flavour and purity. Strongly recommend these Essences for COX^S ^^FRUTUS/^ A delicious combination of fruit flavours, issued only by J. & G- COX, Ltd. Useful for Milk and Cream dishes, Cakes, &c., but not for Jelhes. Put up in I-oz bottles. Of all High-class Grocers.WHAT THE PRESS IS SAYING OF COX’S SPARKLING GELATIHE. Report front the Glasgow Exhibition, 1901, E^dence is not wanting of the continued and growing appreciation of Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, for the exhibit of this useful culinary adjunct is a constant source of attraction in the exhibition, groups of Matrons observine with interest the productions from this Gelatine.— Gbocebt, June, 1901. Report from the Medical Exhlbillon, 1901, Messrs. J. & G. Cox, Ltd., exhibited their Sparkling Gelatine, which is a pure product and reliab’.e for dietetic purposes.— The Lancet, 1st June, 1901. It is well that the public, and more especially Nurses, should know that Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine is of the first quality, and that Blancmanges and Jellies in which it is used can scarcely fail to be a success, even in the hands of an amateur.—Nubsing Record, 8th June, 1901. This well-known Edinburgh Firm, whose name is a household word, both for the excellence of their products and for the noble place that this name has taken in the Records of Edinburgh public life, have just issued a Book of Recipes for using their Sparkling Gelatine, compiled by Bertha Roberts, L.C.A.—Scottish Trader. It is very pure, of guaranteed strength, and is remarkably clear.— The Lady. Cox’s Gelatine is Pure, Bright and Sparkling, and makes the finest Jelly at economic prices.—Lady's Companion. To the majority, such famous preparations as Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine must be a Boon and a Blessing.—Englishwoman. The Booklet of selected Recipes for use with Cox’s Gelatine should be in the possession of every housewife.—Gentlewoman. In Cox’s Gelatine, the public and nursing world have an article of very high value.—Hospital. Cox’s Gelatine is distinguished for its clearness and transparency, and also for the fact that it can be prepared with scarcely any soaking.— British Trade Review. The Gelatine is characterised by those elegant attributes that rejoice the heart of the Housewife, for in practise, it proves superior in a culinary sense to the majority of Gelatines on the market which we have examined. —Science Siftings. Our Laboratory examination of Cox’s Gelatine has given us every satisfaction, and we have no hesitation in declaring this article to be com- mercially pure, thoroughly genuine and perfectly wholesome.—Health. For -Jellies, Blancmanges, and all manner of fancy moulds, Cox’s Patent Refined Gelatine forms a splendid foundation.—Mada.me. Gelatine being an article of constant use in the kitchen in the making of Monlds, Creams and .Jellies, every housewife will be glad to know of a very fine brand, which has made a great name for quality and cheapness— this is Cox’s Patent Refined Sparkling Gelatine, appreciated wherever it is known.—Wo a as. Let Cooks use Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, and with very little trouble or expense, jellies of the clearest of crystal will reward their handiwork.— Isobel’s Home Cookery. Cox's Gelatine lias the merit of absolute purity. It is extremely con- venient in nse, as it rerpiires no soaking, andean readily bo dissolved in water over a gentle heat.—The House. C364 A WORD IN CONCLUSION TO ALL CAREFUL COOKS. <2:± is impossible to over-estimate the importance of ACCURACY in the quantities of the various materials used by the Cook, this accuracy, as a rule, making all the difference between success and failure. Yet many homes are without Scales of any kind, and the Cook is left entirely to haphazard methods of estimat- ing her quantities. Recognizing this want J. & G. COX, Limited, makers of the celebrated “COX’S GELATINE,’’ have determined to supply a USEFUL and ACCURATE WEIGHING APPARATUS at a popular price, and they hope this little help will be a boon in many kitchens. It is beautifully enamelled in colours and gold, with hinged scale for hanging against wall, and when not in use it forms a pretty and attractive ornament to the kitchen dresser. OOX’S household Balance FOR WEIGHING COOKERY INGREDIENTS. Weighs any quantity from i oz. to 2 lbs. Is Light, Elegant, Cheap and Accurate. Price X/3- iWW'WWWWWWWWWVW Any grocer can supply it, or jou may get direct by forwarding 1/3 in stamps to J. & G. COX, Limited, 6, Lloyd’s Avenue, London, E.C. Op from the wopks, Gorgie Mills Edinburgh.! r I r . r*1^