m 1 <2r. - - Tr.- flips •- , • - - University of Leeds Medical and Dental Library DATE DUE FOR RETURN -•* ->' * i i3.0CT.19B6 UPS/4442/5/82 — -V _ 902 MEDICAL ACTS—Apothecaries Act, 1815. Geo. 3. \ c. 194. Ss. 27- 30. Act not to atluct chemists and druggists. Saving rights. ~"r Secretary of state may grant licences to practise anatomy. Irregularity, may recover full satisfaction for the special damage in an action upon the case. 28- Nothing in this act contained shall extend, or be construed to extend, to prejudice, or in any way to affect the trade or business of a chemist and druggist, in the buying, preparing, compounding, dispersing, and vending drugs, medicines, and medicinable compounds, wholesale and retail; but all persons using or exercising the said trade or business, or who shall or may hereafter use or exercise the same, shall and may use, exercise, and carry on the same trade or business in such manner, and as fully and amply to all intents and purposes, as the same trade or business was used, exercised, or earned on by chemists and druggists before the passing of this act. 29. Nothing in this act contained shall extend or be construed to extend to lessen, prejudice, or defeat, or in anywise to interfere with any of the rights, authorities, privileges, and immunities heretofore vested in and exercised and enjoyed by either of the two universities of Oxford or Cambridge, .the royal college of physicians, the royal college of surgeons, or the said society of apothecaries respectively, other than and except such as shall or may have been altered, varied, or amended in and by this act; [or of any person or persons practising as an apothecary previously to the 1st day of August, 1815;] but the said universities, royal colleges, and the said society, and all such persons or person shall have, use, exercise, and enjoy all such rights, authorities, privileges, and immunities, save and except as aforesaid, in as full, ample, and beneficial a manner, to all intents and purposes, as they might have done before the passing of this act, and in case the same had never been passed (e). 30- [Repealed and replaced by Public. Authorities Protection Act, 1893, tit. “ Public Authorities.”] The Anatomy Act, 1832. 2 & 3 Will. 4, c. 75. An Act for regulating Schools of Anatomy. ' [1st August, 1832 “ Whereas a knowledge of the causes and nature of sundry diseases which affect the body, and of the best methods of treating and curing such diseases, and of healing and repairing divers wounds and injuries to which the human frame is liable, cannot be acquired without the aid of anatomical examination: and whereas the legal supply of human bodies for such anatomical examination is insufficient fully to provide the means of such knowledge : and whereas, in order further to supply human bodies for such purposes, divers great and grievous crimes have been committed, and lately murder (/), for the single object of selling for such purposes the bodies of the persons so murdered: and whereas therefore it is highly expedient to give protection, under certain regula- tions, to tho study and practice of anatomy, and to prevent, as far . - may be, such great and grievous crimes and murder as aforesaid: 1>! it THEREFORE enacted, that it shall be lawful for his majesty’s princif ' secretary ot state for tlie time being for the home department in thy- part of the united kingdom called Great Britain, and for the eh * secretary for Ireland in that part of the united kingdom called Irelan i. (e) Italicised words of s. 20 repealed given to this kind of murder, h • by 8. L. lh 1890. Burke, who was executed for i. (/) “Burking” was tho naruo ' January, 1829. £•r 'f • -• \ i / f R $' s. MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy 9 03 Act, 1332.—Liet'n< immediately on the passing of this act, or so soon thereafter as may be required, to grant a licence to practise anatomy to any fellow or member of any college of physicians or surgeons, or to any 'graduate or licentiate in medicine, or to any person lawfully qualified to practise medicine in any part of the united kingdom, or to any professor or teacher of anatomy, medicine, or surgery, or to any student attending any school of anatomy, on application from such party for-such purpose, countersigned by two of his majesty s justices of the peace acting for the county, city," borough, or place wherein such party resides, certify- ing that, to then* knowledge or belief, such party so applying is about to carry on the practice of anatomy. 2- It sliall Be lawful for his majesty’s said principal secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, immediately on the passing of this act, or as soon thereafter as may be necessary, to appoint respee- tiyely not fewer than three persons to be inspectors of places where anatomy is carried on, and at any time after such first appointment to appoint, if they shall see fit, one or more other person or persons to be an inspector or inspectors as aforesaid ; and every such inspector shall continue in office for one year, or until he be removed by the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, or until some other person shall be appointed in his place; and as often as any inspector appointed as aforesaid shall* die, or shall be removed from his said office, or shall refuse or become unable to act, it shall be lawful for the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, to appoint another person to be inspector in his room. 3. It shall be lawful for the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, to direct what district of town or country, or of both, and what places where anatomy is carried on, situate within such district, every such inspector shall be appointed to superintend, and in what manner every such inspector shall transact the duties of his office. 4. Every inspector to be appointed by virtue of this act shall make a quarterly return to the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, of every deceased person’s body that during" the preceding quarter has been removed for anatomical examination to every separate place in his district where anatomy is carried on, dis- tinguishing the sex, and, as far as is known at the time, the name and age of each person whose body was so removed as aforesaid. 5. It shall be lawful for every such inspector to visit and inspect, at any time, any place within his district, notice of which place has been . given, as is hereinafter directed, that it is intended there to practise anatomy. 6. It shall be lawful for his majesty to grant to every such inspector such an annual salary, not exceeding one hundred pounds, for his louble, and to allow such a sum of money for the expenses of his 0 ace, as may appear reasonable; such salaries and allowances to be charged on the consolidated fund of the united kingdom, and to be pav- V 1 quarterly ; and an annual return of all such salaries and allowances shall be made to parliament. 7- It shall be lawful for any executor or other partv having lawful possession of the body of any deceased person {<j), and not being an under- • & A master of a workhouse was indicted fur disposing of the dead bodies of some paupers fur the purpo-e of dissection and for gain to himself. 2 k 3 Will. 4. c. 75. Ss. 1-7. Secretary of state to appoint inspectors of schools of anatomy ; and to direct what district every inspector shall superin- tend. Inspectors to make retarns of subjects removed for anatomical examination ; and to inspect places where anatomy is practised. Salaries to inspectors. Executors or other persons !> ivin^ lawful custody or bodies m «y permit them to un lergo anatomical exj miuation.901 MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy Act, 1832.—Executors. directing anatomical examinations _ after their death. 2 & 3 Will. 4, taker or other party intrusted with the body* for the purpose only of c. 75. interment, to permit the body of such deceased person to undergo g3 7_9 anatomical examination, unless, to the knowledge of such executor or other party, such person shall have expressed his desire, either in writing at any time during his life, or verbally in the presence of two or more witnesses during the illness whereof he died, that his body after death mi^ht not undergo such examination, or unless the surviving husband or wife, or any known relative of the deceased person, shall require the body* to be interred without such examination (h). Provision in 8- If any person either in writing at any time during his life, or case of persons verbally in* the presence of two or more witnesses during the illness whereof he died, shall direct that his body after death be examined anatomically, or shall nominate any party by this act authorized to examine bodies anatomically’ to make such examination, and if, before the burial of the body of sucli person, such direction or nomination shall be made known to the party having lawful possession of the d.ead body, then such last-mentioned party shall direct such examination to be made, and in case of any such nomination as aforesaid, shall request and permit any party so authorized and nominated as aforesaid to make such examination, unless the deceased person’s surviving husband or wife, or nearest known relative, or any one or more of such person’s nearest known relatives, being of kin in the same degree, shall require the body to be interred without such examination. 9. Provided always, that in no case shall the body’ of any person be removed for anatomical examination from any place where such person may have died, until after forty-eight hours from the time of such person’s decease, nor until after twentv-four hours’ notice, to be reckoned from the time of such decease, to the inspector of the district, of the intended removal of the body’, or, if no such inspector have been appointed, to some physician, surgeon, or apothecary residing at or near the place of death, nor unless a certificate stating in what manner such person came by his death shall previously to the removal of the body have been signed by the physician, surgeon, or apothecary who attended such person during the illness whereof he died, or if no such medical man attended such person during such illness, then by’ some physician, surgeon, or apothecary’ who shall be called in after the death of such person to view his body’, and who shall state the manner or cause of The body not to be removed from the place ■where such person may have died without a certificate. On the death of the paupers, he had caused their bodies to be shown to their relatives in coffins, and every appear- ance of regular funerals to be gone through; whereas, just before the funeral, other coffins had been sub- stituted, and the bodies were afterwards taken to an hospital for dissection. The relatives of the deceased persons had not, iji accordance with the proviso, required that the bodies should he in- terred without anatomical examina- tion; but the jury found that the prisoner had caused the appearance of funerals to bo gone through with a view to prevent the relatives making such requirement, and that they’ would have so required but for the supposed fuuorals. It wash. Id that as, in fact, the relatives had not made the require- ment which under the statute they had a right to make, the master of Jhe workhouse was protected by the statute as a person having the lawful custody of the bodies, and was not therefore guilty’ of the offence charged. {Iteg. v. Feist (1S5S), 1 Dears. & B. 59; 27 L. J. M. C. 101; Mews Digest, iv. 675). (//) There is no property* in a dead body, but the executors have a right to the possession of it, and their duty is to bury it although there is a direc- tion in the will that some other person should cause the body’ to he burut (Williams v. Williams (IS'VJ), 20 C. D. 059; 51 L. J. Ch. 3S5; Mews Digest, iv. 075)'. \examination. 005 MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy Act, 1832 .—Si try eons, Burial. death according to the best of his knowledge and belief, but who shall not be concerned in examining the body afcer removal; and that in case of such removal, such certificate shall be delivered, together with the body, to the party receiving the same for anatomical examination. 10. It shall be lawful for any member or fellow of any college of physicians or surgeons, or any graduate or licentiate iu medicine, or any person lawfully qualified to practise medicine in any part of the united kingdom, or any professor, teacher, or student of anatomy, medicine, or surgery, having a licence from his majesty's principal secretary of state or chief secretary as aforesaid, to receive or possess for anatomical examina- tion, or to ^examine anatomically, the body of any person deceased, if permitted or directed so to do by a party who had at the time of giving such permission or direction lawful possession of the body (/), and who had power, in pursuance of the provisions of this act. to permit or cause the body to be so examined, and provided such certificate as aforesaid were delivered by such party together with the body. 11. Every party so receiving a body for anatomical examination after removal shall demand and receive, together with the body, a certifi- cate as aforesaid, and shall, within twenty-four hours next after such removal, transmit to the inspector of the district such certificate, and also a return stating at what day and hour and from whom the body was received, the date and place of death, the sex. and (as far as is known at the time) the Christian and surname, age, and last place of abode of such person, or, if no such inspector have been appointed, to some physician, surgeon, or apothecary residing at or near the place to which the body is removed, and shall enter or cause to be entered the aforesaid particulars relating thereto, and a copy of the certificate lie received therewith, in a book to be kept by him for that purpose, and shall produce such book whenever required so to do by any inspector so appointed as aforesaid.. 12. It shall not be lawful for any party to carry on or teach anatomy at any place, or at any place to receive or possess for anatomical examina- tion, or examine anatomically, any deceased person’s body after removal of the same, unless such party, or the owner or occupier of such place, - or some party by this act authorised to examine bodies anatomically, shall at least one week before the first receipt or possession of a body for such purpose at such place, have given notice to the said secretary of state or chief secretary, as the case may be, of the place where it is intended to practise anatomy. ’ ' / Provided always that every such body so removed as aforesaid for the purpose of examination shall, before such removal, be placed in a decent coffin or shell, and be removed therein ; and that the party remov- ing the same, or causing the same to be removed as aforesaid, shall make piovision that such body, after undergoing anatomical examination, be decently interred in consecrated ground, or in some public burial ground iu use for persons of that religious persuasion to which the person whose bod\ was so removed belonged; and that a certificate of the interment of sucn body shall be transmitted to the inspector of the district within six weeks (/;) after the day on which such bodv was received as aforesaid. (*) If the body is in the posses-: of the coroner his permission wo: have to be obtained. As to the pov of a coroner to order a po*t-mirt examination of the bolv. see s. 21 ■ • the Coroners Act, ISsT (oO cc 51 Viet, c. 71), tit. “ Coroner.” (k) This porio 1 may bo varied by secretary of st ite’s or lor. See :J l & So Viet. c. l.fi, post. 2,U Will. 4, c. 75. Ss. 9-13. Professors, surgeons, ami others may receive holies for anatomical examination. Such persons to receive with the body a certificate as aforesaid, which shall be transmitted to the inspector. / Notice to be given to secre- tary of state of places where anatomy is about to be practised. How bodies are to he removed for90 ti MEDICAL ACTS—Anatomy Act, 1832. 2 k 3 Will. 4 c. 75. Ss. 14-19. Persons described in this act not to be liable to punishment for having in their posses- sion human bodies. Act not to prohibit post- mortem examination. Offences against this act. Interpretation of certain words in this act. / T- 14. No member or fellow of any college of physicians or surgeons, \ nor any graduate or licentiate in medicine, nor any person lawfully qualified to practise medicine in any part of the united kingdom, nor any professor, teacher, or student of anatomy, medicine, or surgery, having a licence from his majesty’s principal secretary of state or chief secretary as aforesaid, shall be liable to any prosecution, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for receiving or 'Having in his possession for anatomical examination, or for examining anatomically, any dead human body, according to the provisions of this act. 15- Nothing in this act contained shall be construed to extend to or to prohibit any post-mortem examination of any human body required or directed to be made by any competent legal authority. 16. So much of 9 Geo. 4, c. 31, as directs that the bodies of murderers may be dissected, repealed. Such bodies to be hung in chains or buried, as the court shall direct.—[Repealed 24 & 25 Yict. c. 95.] 17- [Repealed and replaced with extensions by Public Authorities Protection Act, 1893, tit. “ Public Authorities.”] 18- Any person offending against the provisions of this act in England or Ireland shall be deemed and taken to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, being duly convicted thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or by a fine not exceeding fifty pounds, at the discretion of the court before which he shall be tried ; and any person offending against the provisions of this act in Scotland shall, upon being duly convicted of such offence, be punished by imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months, or by a fine not exceeding fifty pounds, at the discretion of the court before which he shall be tried. 19. And in order to remove doubts as to the meaning of certain words in this act, be it enacted, that the words “person and party” shall be respectively deemed to include any number of persons, or any society, whether by charter or otherwise; and the meaning of the aforesaid words shall not be restricted, although the same may be subsequently referred to in the singular number and masculine gender only. The Arsenic Act, 1851. 14 & 15 Viet. c. 13. [See p. 980, post.'] The Pharmacy Act, 1852. 15 & 16 Viet. c. 56. An Act for regulating the Qualifications of Pharmaceutical Chemists. [30th June, 1852 “ \\ hereas it is expedient for the safety of the public that persons exercising the business or calling of pharmaceutical chemists in Great Britain should possess a competent practical knowledge of pharmaceu- tical and general chemistry and other branches of useful knowledge : and whereas certain persons desirous of advancing chemistry and pharmacy and of promoting an uniform system of educating those who should practise the same, formed themselves into a society called ‘ The Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain,’ which said society was on the l^th day of February, 1843, incorporated by royal charter, whereby it was provided that the said society should consist of members who should be chemists and druggists who were or had been established907 MEDICAL ACTS—Pharmacy Act, 1852. on their own account at the elate of the said charter, or who should have been examined in such manner as the council of the said society should deem proper, or who should have been certified to be duly qualified for admission, or who should be persons elected as superintendents by the council of the said society: and whereas it is expedient to prevent i<morant and incompetent persons from assuming the title of or pretend- incr to be pharmaceutical chemists or pharmaceutists in Great Britain, or members of the said pharmaceutical society, and to that end it is desirable that all persons before assuming such title should be duly examined as to their skill and knowledge by competent persons, and that a register should be kept by some legally authorized officer of all such persons : and whereas for the purposes aforesaid, and for extend- ing the benefits which have already resulted from the said charter of incorporation, it is desirable that additional powers should be granted for regulating the qualifications of persons who may carry on the business of pharmaceutical chemists : ” Be it enacted, 1. The said charter of incorporation granted to the said society on the 18th day of February, 1S43, save and except such part or parts thereof as are hereby altered, varied, or repealed, shall be and the same is hereby con- firmed and declared to be in full force and virtue, and shall be as good and effectual to all iuteuts and purposes as if this act had not been passed. 2- The council of the said pharmaceutical society shall be and the same are hereby authorized and empowered to alter and amend the bye-laws of the said society made and established under or in pursuance of the said charter of incorporation, and to make and establish such new or additional bye-laws as they shall deem proper and necessary for the purposes contemplated by the said charter or by this act : provided always, that all such original bye-laws, and all altered, amended, or additional bye-laws, shall be confirmed and approved by a special general meeting of the members of the said pharmaceutical society, and by one of her majesty’s principal secretaries of state ('/): provided also, that the existing bye-laws of the said society shall continue in force until the next annual meeting of the said society to be held in the month of May, 1853 (;«).] - 3. Manner of voting.—[Repealed S. L. R. 1S75.J 4. The council of the said pharmaceutical society shall, [within three calendar months after the passing of this act (?/t),j appoint a fit and proper person as a registrar under this act, and the council of the said society shall have the power to remove the said registrar, or any future registrar to be appointed under this act, from the said office, and from time to time to appoint a new registrar in the room of anv registrar who mav die, or retire, or be removed from office as aforesaid, and also to appoint and remove from time to time a deputy registrar, and such clerks and other subordinate officers as may be requisite for carrying out the purposes of this act, and also to pay suitable salaries to the said . registrar, deputy registrar, clerks, and officers. 6. The registrar to be appointed under or by virtue of this act shall from time to time make out and maintain a complete register of all persons being members of the said society, and also i all persons being associates and apprentices or students respective’ . according, to the terms of the charter of incorporation, and shall keep a proper°index of (f) The power of making bye-laws p. 97'2, j o-st. conferred by this section has been fm) Words in italics repealed by extended by 8 Edw. 7, c. 55, s. 4, S. L. E. 1875- 15 & 16 Viet, c. 56. Ss. 1-5. Charter, dated ISth Feb., IS43, con- tinued, save as altered. Tower to council to alter bye-laws, provided they are approved by a general meeting of society and the secretary of state. Council to appoint registrar, &<;. Registrar to make registers of members of society, Ac. and to keep an index and I ooks as may be required.Reserving rigilts of liorsons regiu* tDrod licforo act of 1 SOS. Excepting lticdioino sujijilicd by a lcgolly qualified medical man. Scbedulo (F) amended. Construction and short titlo. Power to secretary of st.\to to vary period for transmission of certificates of interment to district inspectors. MEDIC ALT'ACTS—Pharmacy Act, 1C GO. The Pharmacy Act, 1860. 32 & 33 Viet. e. 1 17- An Act to anionJ Urn Pharmacy AH, 1868. V- ’ [11 tli August, I860 ‘‘Whereas it is oxpediont to amend Iho provisions of the Pharmacy Act, 1808, in'rogard to duly qualified medical practitioners and voterinary surgeons, and., in othor respects : " Be it enacted as follows : 1. Nothing contained in tlio first fifteen sections of tho recited net shall affect any person who has heon registered as a legally qualified medical practitioner beforo tlio passing of this act; and the said clauses shall not apply to any person who may hereafter ho registered as a legally qualified practitioner, and who, in order to obtain his diploma for such registration, shall have passed an examination in pharmacy; nor shall tho said clauses prevent any person who is a moinbor of tlio royal collego of voterinary surgeons of Great Britain, or holds a certifi- cate in veterinary surgery from the highland and agricultural society of Scotland, from dispensing medicines for animals under his care. ’■ 2. [Repealed by S. L! R, 1883.] 3. Nothing contained in section seventeen of the said recited act slmll apply to any medicine supplied by a legally qualified medical pniofb tioncr to his patient or dispensed by any person registered under the said act, provided such medicine be distinctly labelled with tho name and address of tho seller, and the ingredients thereof be entered, with tho name of the person to whom it is sold or delivered, in a book to bo kept by the seller for that purpose. 4. [Repealed by S. L. R. 1883.] 6. Schedule (F) of the said recited act is hereby altered by substi- tuting for the second column headed “Name of Purchaser" a column beaded “ Name and Address of Purchaser." SCHEDULE (A) (/•). The Anatomy Act, 1871- 34 & £5 Viet. c. 16. An Act to amend the Act of the Second ami Third Years of William the Fourth, Chapter Seventy-live, for regulating Schools of Anatomy., [25th May, 1871 “ Whoroas it is expediont to amend tho act of the session of the second and third years of king William tho fourth, chapter seventy-five,‘for regulating schools of anatomy : Be it enacted as follows : 1 • This act shall bo construed as one with tho recited act, ami i rocitod act and this act may bo cited as “Tho Anatomy Acts, 18‘E • 187 1,” and each of them may ho cited as tho Anatomy Act of the}1 in which it was passed. 2. It shall ho lawful for one of her majesty's principal Mocrehu.; stato in that part of tho united kingdom called Great Britain, ami fm cniof socrotary for Ireland in that part of tho united kingdom Ireland, from timo to timo, by ordor, to vary tho period limited by set' thirteen of tho recited act as tho timo within which certificated 1 intorment aro to be transmitted to tho inspectors of districts. (/) Schedule (repealed by S. L. R. 1SS3.•••*% A.' ap ; m. SS Vj* - ^wr ’VST