9 Glossary. Chap. I.] always receive motor, sensory, and sympathetic branches, or roots. They both have branches of communication and branches of distribution. The former include the bran- ches they receive from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves; the latter are the branches which the ganglion sends to the structures in its vicinity. Insertion (Lat. inserto, I put in), the end of a muscle which is attached to the part which it moves. Ligament (Lat. ligo, I bind), the fibrous bands which connect bones. Also applied to the layers of fascia which support organs. (Vide Bladder.) Also applied to folds of serous membranes. (Vide Peritoneum and Pericardium.) Mesentery (Gr. /iiecros, middle ; ivrepou, an intestine), the fold of peritoneum which attaches the small intestines to the spine. The colon, caecum, sigmoid flexure, and rectum may also possess mesenteries, which are called the meso- colon, meso-cyecum, meso-sigmoidea, and meso-rectum, respectively. Middle line, unless otherwise stated, always means the middle line of the body. Organ (Gr. opyauou, an instrument; derived from epyw, I work), a natural living instrument, by which some process or function is carried on. Origin (Lat. origo, I arise), the fixed extremity of a muscle. (Vide Insertion.) Omentum (Lat. a fat-bag), a great fold of peritoneum which contains fat. Also ajDplied to a smaller fold or ligament of peritoneum which stretches from the liver to the stomach, and to a fold which stretches from the stomach to the spleen. Plexus (Lat. a network), applied to the arrangement of blood-vessels, nerves, or lymphatics in the form of a network. Raphe (Gr. 'pacpr], a seam), a term applied to the meeting of parts in the middle line of the body, where they present, in a slight degree, the appearance of having been sewn together. Relation, used in speaking of the position of parts as regards each other. If close together, parts are said to be in rela- tion. All relations should be spoken of with the body standing up, and facing the observer. Anterior, posterior, internal, and external relations are usually enumerated. The structures between the observer and the part consti- tute the superficial, or anterior, relations. Internal and external relations should always be spoken of w^ith strict reference to the middle line of the body.