The Dissector^s Manual. [Chap. ii. 10 Reflection (Lat. re^ "back; jiecto^ I bend), when used in speakin^^ of membranes, such as the peritoneum, refers to the folds which it makes in passing from the wall of the cavity over an organ and back again to the abdominal wall. (Vide diagram, page 119.) Eefiection is also applied to the bend- ing of a tendon round a bony point or through a loop ; e.g.^ tensor palati and superior oblique muscle of eye. Reflect, when applied to the process of dissection, means the turning back of skin, fascia, or muscle. Septum (Lat. sepio^ I enclose or hedge in), a partition, usually formed of connective tissue, sometimes of bone or cartilage. {Vide Nose.) Sinus (Lat. a bay or indentation), applied, to cavities in the cranial bones which contain air; to canals in the mem- branes of the skull (dura mater) containing venous blood ; to dilations of veins themselves {vide Jugular sinus, CoiioNARY sinus) ; c, to dilations of the walls of arteries (sinus of Valsalva); to spaces bounded by the free edge of muscles (sinus of Morgagni). Surface markings, marks which would have to be made upon the skin to indicate the size, shape, and position of the underlying parts. Sometimes the subjacent parts are so prominent that their outline (or surface marking) is visible. Theca (Gr. ^rj/cr?, a sheath), the name given to the fibrous sheath which encloses tendons (especially of the fingers), also to the dura mater of the spinal cord. Ventricle (Lat. ventriculus, a little belly), applied to the cavities of the heart, bi-ain, and larynx. Villi (Lat. villus^ wool or hair), applied to minute projections of the mucous membrane of the small intestine, also to projections from the choroid plexuses {^vide Buain) or from the placenta. CHAPTER 11. USE OF INSTRUMENTS, AND MODE OF PREPARATION OF THE BODY FOR DISSECTION. The instruments which are required to enable the different structures which compose the body to be displayed are few in number. Two or three scalpels, a pair of scissors, a pair of forceps, two or three sets