40 The Dissector's Manual. [Chap. iii. superficial branches of ulnar nerve, and tlie lumbricales, are to be dissected in order, and the nervous and arterial branches made out. The lumbricales are attached to the deep flexor tendons, and must be traced round to their attachments at the back of the fingers. The small branches from the median and ulnar nerves can usually be made out by a skilful dissector. The superficial palmar arch lies immediately below the fascia. It will be seen to be formed by the superficial branch of the ulnar joining with the superficialis volse, a brancli of the radial artery which usually crosses or pierces the abductor pollicis. The skin should be reflected from at least one finger, and the nerves and arteries traced along it. In order to see the deep palmar arch and deep branch of the ulnar nerve, it is necessary to divide the annular ligament; but before doing so, its attachments to the scaphoid and trapezium on the radial side, and to the pisiform and unciform on the ulnar side, should be observed. The flexor carpi radialis pierces it; when it has been divided, the median nerve, superficial and deep flexors, and flexor longus pollicis, can be seen to pass beneath it; later on some recurrent branches of the deep palmar arch will come into view, also passing beneath. The median nerve and all the flexors should be divided, and, along with the superiicial palmar arch, turned towards the fingers. The deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and artery, may now be traced into the palm. They will be seen to be given off as soon as their trunks have crossed the annular ligament, then to pass between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, wind the unciform process, and go beneath the muscles attached to it (flexor brevis and apponens minimi digiti) to break up in the palm. After making out the apponens minimi digiti, the deep palmar arch and its branches may be dissected. The course of the deep branch of the ulnar artery has been followed. The radial artery