8 The Dissector's Manual. [Chap. i. communioate with joints; mucous "bursa?, whicli contain fluid, and are developed wHerever tliere is constant friction. Capsule (Lat. capsula, a little chest), the membranous bag which encloses an organ. Sometimes wrongly applied to the organs themselves ; e.g., suprarenal capsules. Collateral (Lat. con, together; latus, a side). Vessels and nerves which run alongside one another are called col- lateral. "When an artery is ligatured, the vessels which run in the same direction enlarge, and form the collateral circulation. To ascertain what collateral channels may exist, it is only necessary to trace the distal vessels, i.e., those which are given off bej^ond the point of ligature, back towards the heart, and see whether they form any anastomosis. Clean—cleaning, word used to denote the complete removal of the fat, or connective tissue, from the surface of any structure. Commissure (Lat. commissura, a joining together) usually consist of bands of fibres which unite opposite sides to- gether (transverse commissures). They may run in other directions^ (longitudinal commissures). Connective tissue (Lat. co7i, together; necto, I knit), in anatomy, the loose fibrous tissue which surrounds and connects everything. Demonstrate (Lat. demonstro, to point out). Dissect (Lat. dis, apart; seco, I cut), to cut in such a m^anner as to display the structure of anything. Extend, to straighten. The muscles which straighten are called extensors. In the case of the foot, it happens that the straightening is brought about by the flexor muscles, and the bending of the foot upon the front of the leg by the extensors. Fascia (Lat. a band), connective tissue spread out in a layer. Bundles, bands, sheaths, and arches of fascia are also met with. (Vide Aponeurosis.) Flex, to bend. The muscles which bend a limb are usually termed flexors. (Vide Extend.) Ganglion (Gr. yayjKiov, a knot), a small mass of nervous matter resembling a knot, found upon nerves. Three varieties of ganglia may be recognised, [a) Ganglia found upon nerves; e.g., ganglia on vagus, q.v, [h) Ganglia by themselves, called solitary or sporadic; e,g., Meckel's ganglion, or the otic, [c) Ganglia situated in the central nervous system; e.g., corpus striatum. The ganglia which are situated on nerves and the solitary ganglia