Aliments, or Foods Proter. 95 Iceland Moss—Koran—Keindeer Moss—Irish Moss—Toadstools. eaten, or eatable, may be conveniently considered under this title. I do not regard the whole tribe as worth the ink spilt in describing them, only as showing the vast variety of eatii\ material there is in the world, and the resources to which om may resort in extremity. Natural appetences never requirt nor desire such food, and the pampered and abnormal taste can not be satisfied were the earth and sea and air to yield ten thousand times as many animals and vegetables for it to prey and gorge upon. Those lichens which are employed as food contain a starchy matter called feculoid, or lichenin, usually associated with a bitter principle, which may be removed by soaking in a weak alkaline solution. Of this character are several species of Gyrophora, used by the hunters of the Arctic regions and the North American Indians. Iceland Moss (Celraria islandica. is extensively used in England, and to some extent in thic country. The Koran, or Mamako, is employed in New Zea land. The Cetraria nivalis grows abundantly in the mount- ainous regions ot this country, and the Reindeer Moss (Ceno- myce rangifernia) is a principal food of the deer of our forests. Several species of Algce, or Seaweed, are employed as food. Their chief alimentary quality is mucilage. Of this class are Peai l Moss (Chondrus crispas), called also Carrigeen, or Irish Moss, and the Laver, sold in the London shops. Some of these substances contain also sugar and starch. The Ceylon, or Jafner Moss, is a seaweed of India. These articles are much used in making jellies, blanc-mange, etc., for invalids. Of the Fungi, or Mushrooms, many varieties are eaten, and some are considered very “ delicate.” They possess very lit- tie nutriment, and are very apt to be poisonous. Those vari- eties called toadstools generally possess noxious qualities. The Garden Mushrooms (Agaricus campestris, and Agaricus aurunhacus) are the principal kinds cultivated for the table. In fig. 78, a, a, a, represent the Var. Campestris, and h the ar. Auruntiacus. In some places the same varieties are called