Hydropathic Cook-Book. 112 Drying Apparatus—Air-tight Bottles—Keeping Gropes. Mr. William R. Smith, of the interior of this State, has experimented pretty extensively in this method of preserving fruits, and has supplied our market with good fresh peaches, pears, tomatoes, quinces, etc,, in mid-winter. The North American Phalanx Company are now construct- ing an admirably planned building for preserving fruits and vegetables in. either their ripe or unripe state. The drying apparatus is a series of shallow trays, with open network bot- toms, supported above each other on sliding racks, making a double column of drying trays about thirty feet in height, all warmed to any requisite degree by the steam of a boiler in the basement. They are also largely engaged in putting up fruits; and have succeeded in so perfectly excluding the atmospheric air, as to keep tomatoes, berries, peaches, and pears, etc., fresh and undecayed a whole year, and some of them even longer. They are put up in wide-mouthed quart jars, either of glass or stone. The fruit (except berries) is peeled, quartered, and their pips taken out, and the jars filled. These are then placed in a trough or shallow square tub, into which hot water is al- lowed to run till it surrounds the jars nearly to the top. The juice is thus heated sufficiently to expel the air, but not so as to boil or cook the fruit. The cork is, lastly, introduced, and covered with paste, cement, sealing-wax, or something imper- vious to air. Undried grapes may be preserved a long time by placing them in large jars, filling up the jars with sawdust, and then cementing the lids so as entirely to exclude the air. The following methods of keeping grapes in good condition long after they have ripened are convenient, and are said to be very successful. “ Cut off the grapes, with a joint or two, or more, of wood below each bunch ; make a clean cut. and apply sealing-wax, as hot as can be used, to it, and seal the wood closely, so that no air can enter the tissues cominu nicating with the bunch. Then hang the bunches up on cords.