30 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Economical Etllcriiig Apparatus—Tillering through Stone. minutes, at the cost of only a few pence, in the following manner’: Procure a clean flower-pot, of the common kind; close the opening in the bottom by a piece of sponge; then place in the inside a layer of small stones, previously well cleaned by waslung; this layer may be about two incites deep, the upper stones being very small. Next pro- cure some freshly burnt charcoal, which has not been kept, in a damp or &ul place, as it rapidly absorbs any strong smells, and so becomes tainted and unfit for such purpose; reduce this to powder, and with it twice its bulk of clear, well-washed, sharp sand ; with this mixture fill the pot to within a short distance of the top, covering it with a layer of small stones ; or, what is perhaps better, place a piece of thick flannel over it, large enough to tie round the rim of the pot outside, and to form a hollow inside, into which the water to be filtered is to be poured, and which will be found to flow out rapidly through the sponge in an excellent pure state. The flannel removes the grosser impurities float- ing in the water, hut the latter absorbs much of the decaying animal and vegetable l.p.iiw. i> tualiy dissolved in it; when it becomes charged with them, it loses thw power, hence the necessity for a supply of fresh charcoal at intervals. Under different, circumstances porous stone, sand, charcoal, sponge, flannel and other cloths, and unsized or bibulous paper, are used for filtering water. As the subject is one of great importance, especially to invalids, I shall dwell on it somewhat lengthily. On a small scale, water which has not become attainted by the admixture of offensive gases, may be filtered by com- pressing a piece of sponge into the neck of a bottle or other vessel, and allowing the water to percolate through it. Filtering water by passing it through porous stone, hollowed out into the form of a basin (fig. 1), was an ancient method. Filtering through charcoal de- prives the water of coloring matter and offensive odors. Sand has been most generally used for filtering on a large mTRurNQ TiiEouou 8T0NB. scale. In the sand beds constructed by