99 Aliments, or Foods Pr'pee. Lean Flesh—Necessity for its Mastication—Epicures. And when we come to the matter of converting the differ ent parts and structures of animals into the organs and tissues of our own bodies—making them “ bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh”—there are many good reasons for choosing. The lean flesh, or muscular fiber, is the very best aliment any animal can afford; and this is also most wholesome when derived from animals neither much fattened nor emaciated. “ But some allowance must be made for the masticatory ability of human teeth. Flesh-meat requires thorough mas- tication. Human beings have not the tearing teeth of the tiger and the wolf, nor the cutting motion of the jaw which belongs to the carnivora. Moreover, the teeth, jaws, and gums of most people who live in the ordinary way, are pre- ternaturally sensitive and tender; and in addition to all this, a large portion of people, even young people, in civilized society, wear artificial teeth. They can not, therefore, well masticate tough meat, as is often demonstrated in the cases of choking in the attempt to swallow half-chewed flesh. For this reason the animal had better be in good condition, and only the most tender fibers selected as food. “Epicures generally have the flesh they procure at market kept until it becomes tender from age; but such tenderness is the condition of incipient putrefaction, and although the article may be very easily dFposed of by the teeth, and very quickly dissolved in the stomach, it can never be well digested, nor can it ever be converted into pure blood and sound tissues. It is advantageous to break up the fibers of tough meat by thoroughly pounding before cooking.”—Hydropathic Encyclo- pedia. In all animal matter the process of decomposition or putre- faction commences the moment that life is extinct; and although the evidences of such putrefaction may not be )ffen- sively evident to our senses of taste and smell for several hours or days, the fact alone establishes the principle, that the sooner all dead animal matter is eaten after the life-principle has