162 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Management of. Acids and Alkalies—Wheat-meal Bread. acid be employed, one teaspoonful will be sufficient for one and a quarter teaspoonfuls of the alkali. But whatsoever materials are employed, they must be managed in the same way. The alkali must be dissolved and thoroughly diffused through the whole mass of flour and when wetted to the condition of a rather stiff sponge, the acid, previously diluted, must be added, and then more flour added, and the acid stirred through the whole with all possible expedition. The more rapidly the acid is diffused through the mass in this way, the lighter will be the loaf, as the carbonic acid gas evolved by the combination of an acid with the base of the carbonate, is every moment escaping after the acid and alkali are brought into contact. It is important, too, that bread made in this way be put in the oven the moment it is mixed. If allowed to stand only a short time before being placed in the oven, as has often happened with those who, not being theoretical chemists, have undertaken to manage acids and alkalies, it may come out heavy, compact, and “ soggy-” It requires baking about an hour, the same length of time as the fermented fine flour bread. 13. Wheat-meal Bread—Graham Bread. In every cook-book I have examined, and in all the medico-die- tetical works I have consulted, I find saleratus or pearlash, and salt always in the recipe for making what those books call brcncn) dys- pepsia, or Graham bread. Those two drugs ought always to be left out. Molasses or brown sugar is also a fixture in the ordinary receipt books, and as a small quantity—a tablespoonful to a com- mon loaf—is not harmful, the saccharine clement may be left to taste. Make the sponge of unbolted wheat-meal in the ordinary way, with either hop or potato yeast, but mix it rather thin. Be sure and mold the loaves as soon as it becomes light, as the un- bolted flour runs into the acetous fermentation much more rapidly than the bolted or superfine flour, and bake an hour and a quarter or an hour and a half, according to the size of the loaf.