12 R v d n o p a t uic Cook-Book. Jelly—Organic Acids—Lactic Acid—Vinegar—Fats and Oils. Jelly is found in both animals and vegetables. It exists in die most pulpy fruits, and in many edible roots. The pulps of fruits and sugar are called jams. The vegetable principle, called jelly, is somewhat analogous to the animal principle, called gelatin, and some dietetical writers confound them. Taey are, however, essentially different, though dietetically the difference is unimportant, for neither possess much nutri- tive value, except as they exist in combination with other ali- mentary principles. Several organic acids which are formed in the process of vegetable growth, are usually regarded as alimentary principles. Citric, tartaric, malic, and oxalic acids belong to this class. Acetic and lactic acids are also considered to be organic and alimentary by most dietetical writers, but I think errone ously. The former is a product of decomposition instead of formation; and the latter is only found in unhealthy stomachs, sour milk, and fermenting vegetables. Vinegar is so far from being alimentary, that, like alcohol, it is a product of vegetable decay, and always injurious to the human stomach. Vegetable acids, it should be remarked, vary greatly in the different stages of the growth of the plant, root, seed, or fruit yielding them. Some are found in much greater proportions during the growth of the plant than in its maturity ; and some are lost and others developed in the process of the ripening of fruits—an evidence conclusive that the organic powers of the vegetable kingdom' can at least transmute their proximate ele- ments into -each other. Fat comprehends the various oleaginous substances of ani- mals and vegetables, as suet, lard, tallow, marrow, grease, but- ter, blubber, and almond, olive, walnut, and other nut oils. Ani- mal oils are among the least nutritious and most injurious kinds of alimentary materials. The oil*: from the vegetable kingdom are far more wholesome, and probably, to a well- trained stomach, perfectly innocuous. Medical books are full of errors respecting the dietetical