Kelishes and Fancy Dishes. 211 Cherry Jam—Apple Cheese—urape Sirup, or Unalcoholie Wine. ol the milk stores, is usually spoiled by an excessive quantity of salt. 247. Cherry Jam. Take four pounds of Kentish cherries, one pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of red currant juice. Stone the fruit, and boil the whole together, rather quickly, till it becomes stifF. 248. Apple Cheese. Take two pounds of apples, pared and sliced; one pound of sugar; the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and a little water. Put them all into a pan: cover, and set it over the fire till the apples are reduced to a pulp, turning the pan occasionally; let it boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly, and pour it into small molds. 249. Grape Sirup. To four pounds of picked grapes add a pint of water, set them over a moderately hot fire till the grapes are well boiled, keeping the pan, which should be block-tin or brass, covered; strain through a hair sieve, gently pressing the grapes; when cool, cover it with a plate, and let it remain till the next day; then carefully clear it off, and to each pint allow a pound of loaf-sugar, broken; put the sugar into a pan, adding a pint of water to each four pounds ; stir it, while cold, till the sugar is partly dissolved : then put it on a moderately brisk fire with the pan cove-red, stirring it occasionally till nearly boiling; then watch it carefully; and if it rise very much, draw the pan a little forward; let it boil up quickly several times, then moderately, till there is a thick scum formed at the side of the pan; take it off quite clean; then pour in the juice; cover the pan till nearly boiling; remove the cover, and let the sirup boil a quarter of a hour, carefully taking off any scum that may rise. Pour the sirup into a large stone jar in which Iras been placed a little grated lemon or a few broken pieces of cinna mon, and let it remain one day ; then strain it into bottles; cork, and keep it in a cool place. The above is really a kind of unalcoholic wine, and as such can not be too highly recommended for medicinal and sacramental