Hydropathic Cook-Book. 100 Slaughtering Animals—Medico-Dietotical Writers—Dr. Dunglison. depaited the better. Ihe only way it can be kept unchanged for any considerable length of time, is by being frozen imme- diately after being killed. The quality of flesh-meat is also affected by the manner in which the animal is slaughtered All flesh contains more or less blood; and a disproportionate quantity of venous or impure blood. The blood not only contains the natural elements of food, but the waste, dead, and effete matters which, having served their purpose in the organism, are to be expelled from the body, and such accidental impurities as may have obtained admission into the body ; hence the more bloody any kind of animal food is, the more unclean and putrescent. Medico-dietetical writers are continually perpetrating the flattest contradictions, and most singularly absurd blunders on this subject; and I regard the medical profession, taken in the aggregate, as the most ignorant class in community on the whole subject of diet; not that they have not sense and reason like other men ; but that they have been miseducated—led away from truth by false theories, and thus are farther from it, more ignorant in all practical senses, than one who has no knowledge save the “light of common sense.” To illustrate : Dr. Dunglison, in a late work {Human Health)? in speaking of the Roman custom of killing animals by run- ning a red-hot spit through the body, says*: “This mode of slaughtering was replete with objections, if regarded in an ali- mentary point of view. The flesh of animals thus killed is dark colored, owing to the retention of blood in the vessels, and hence it becomes speedily putrid.'" And, again, says the doctor: “ When an animal is killed accidentally, without bleeding, its flesh is not unwholesome, although it may not be palatable, in consequence of the blood remaining in the vessels.” So, if Dr. Dunglison’s logic is sound, the wholesome or un- wholesome character of the flesh of an animal killed without bleeding depends entirely on the fact whether the killing was by accident oi design !