91 Aliments, or Foods Proper. Sourkrout—Spinach—Varieties of Spinnceous Plants. and leaves. They.are not so nutritive as the common white and red cabbages, nor so palatable without seasonings. Sourkrout, or sauerkraut, is a preparation of fermented cab- bage, and although highly lauded by the medical profession, and by dietetical writers as medicinal and wholesome, it has nothing intrinsic to recommend it. Spinach.—Those plants whose leaves and leaf-stalks are nutritive and wholesome, and require no other preparation than simply boiling in water, are very numerous. In common use are young cabbages, potato-tops, dandelion-tops, mustard leaves, parsley, cowslips, deer-weed, beet-tops, etc. Some of the spinaceous plants—mustard, for example—are acrid and pungent, but lose these objectionable properties on being boiled. A bitter or an astringent principle resides in some of them, as the dandelion and the cowslip, which impairs their flavor, though not existing in sufficient degree to effect mate- rially their dietetic qualities. A variety of plants coming under the present head are em- ployed as salads, the principal of which are Lettuce (Lactucca saliva), Garden Cress (Lapidium sativium), Water Cress (Nas- turtium officinale), Rape (Brassica rapus), Burnet (Poterium sanguisorba), Celery, or Smallage (Apium graveolens), Lamb Lettuce, or Com Salad (Felix olitoria), Endive (Chicorium cndivia), Chickory, Succory, or Wild Endive (Chicorium inty- bxls), etc. Most of them are too strong and acrimonious to be healthful; and those who avoid strong, rank animal foods, and eschew alcohol and tobacco, can hardly desire them. The lettuce tribe are injurious on account of containing the nar- cotic juice from which opium is made. Most of the plants employed as spinach belong to the botanical family Chenopodece ; they have very small greenish flowers, formed into variously-shaped heads, resembling balls, bunches, spikes, etc. Fig. 75 represents the commonly cultivated varieties of the