Aliments, ok Foods Proper. 107 Butter—Sweet Cream- Fresh Curd—Cheese—An Adage. longed nutrition, and except in certain abnormal states of the digestive organs, its moderate employment is attended with no inconvenience. “Some invalids can not enjoy, and some dyspeptics can not tolerate it; but exceptional cases from morbid conditions are not rules for healthy persons. 11 Butter, as prepared for the table, is a different article die- tctically from its fatty particles as they exist in milk. The former must rank with all animal oils in being difficult of diges- tion, but slightly nutritive, and liable to generate rancid acids in the stomach. There is, however, a great difference between fresh-made and slightly salted butter, and that which is old and highly salted. Compared with the latter the former is almost innocuous. Melted and cooked butter is, wherever found, a very deleterious aliment. Sweet cream, from its solu- bility in water, and greater miscibility with the saliva, is far preferable to butter. Indeed, I am not aware that experienco assigns to it any injurious or even unpleasant effect as an ali- ment. The fresh curd of milk is perfectly wholesome, and pot cheese, when of milk as soon as it becomes sour, and before it gets bitter, is also a harmless article. Green cheese is not very objectionable, but old, strong cheese is one of the most injurious and indigestible things in existence. It is also one of the most constipating articles to the bowels that can be found. It is a common fancy among medical men, and a common whim among the people, that old, strong, rank cheese, though itself very indigestible, stimulates the stomach to digest other things ; hence almost all the medico-dietetical works quote the old adage: “1 Cheese is a mity elf, Digesting all things but itself.’ “ There is more poetry than truth in the doggrel distich. Old cheese occasionally undergoes spontaneous decomposition, dur- ing which process acrid and poisonons elements are developed, as is frequently the case with bacon and sausages.”