Hydropathic Cook-Book. 114 Covering with Water—Boiling—Peachc-e in Tin Cases. The cranberry, and some of the smaller kinds of apples, will keep for a considerable tiYne by being covered with water. The juice of the grape, tomato, and probably many other fruits, may be preserved by simply boiling it for a short time, and then afterward secluding it from the atmosphere. Some fruits of the gourd kind—pumpkins, squashes, etc., can be dried on metal plates heated by steam, sufficiently to be powdered or ground into a fine flour. • The Shakers sell the article as pumpkin powder, which is very convenient for making pies expeditiously. Peach leather and tomato leather are prepared by squeezing out the pulp of the very ripe fruit, spreading it out thinly on plates or shingles,-and drying in the sun, or by hot air or steam, until quite hard and tough. They may also be dried in a brick oven. The following method of preserving peaches in tin cans recently appeared in a Mississippi paper, from the pen of a writer who claims to have had considerable experience. “In the first place, be absolutely certain that the cans are made air-tight. Peal your peaches, cut them in halves, take out the seeds, and fill the cans within a half inch of the top, shaking the peaches down as close as possible. Then take loaf-sugar in the proportion of two pounds to a pint of water, boil and strain. Pour this sirup over the peaches in the cans, and then have the square piece of tin put on, leaving a small vent in the center. Place the cans in a kettle with water enough to come within an inch of the top of the cans. Boil the cans from fifteen to thirty minutes, or longer if necessary keeping the vent open with a knitting-needle, until the air or sirup ceases to flow. Remove the kettle from the fire, and while the cans remain in the hot water close the vent with solder. “This is decidedly the best plan, as I well know by expe- rience. It takes no more sugar to make the sirup than it will take to sweeten them after you open the cans for use.