CHAPTER VI. BREAD AND BREAD-MAKING. Different Kinds of Bread.—Bread has been proverbially called the staff of lifeand good, bread has been truly regarded as the u perfection of cookery.” That person or family who habit- ually eats good bread, ought never to complain much of indigestion) in fact, poor bread is one of the principal causes of the dyspepsia which prevails almost everywhere among the agricultural popula- tion of this country. Those who appreciate good health, and un- derstand the relation of health to happiness, will bear with me if I dwell somev'hat lengthily on this branch of our subject. All breads may be divided into domestic bread and baker’s bread. The principal difference is in the greater degree of fermentation to which the latter is subjected, and the alkaline matters which are generally employed by bakers to neutralize the acid created by ex- cessive fermentation. Either kinds of bread may be fermented— rendered light by means of yeast; or raised—made light by means of acids and alkalies; or unleavened—baked without leaven or risings of any kind. Yeast is, howrever, in general use in bread- making, very few bakers or private families making any other kind.' It behooves, therefore, all bread-makers who employ a fer- ment ^ to understand the nature of fermentation. Theory of Fermentation.—It may sound strangely to those who are accustomed to read and talk about good, sweet yeast, and beautifully light bread, to hear that fermentation itself is a rotting process, a decomposition, and hence destructive of certain proxi- mate elements of the substance subjected to its influence. We may as well understand, therefore, at once, that no kind of bread can be fermented without being to some extent injured ; and all bread- makers who employ yeast ought to know how to manage it so as to deteriorate the article as little as possible. Fermentation is a process involving a series of chemical changes, by which the organic or proximate elements of vegetable substances