Bkead and Bee ad -making 149 Different Singes of Fermentation—A common Error. are reduced to their ultimate or chemical elements. Different, stages of the process have received different appellations, as panary, vinous, acetous, and putrefactive fermentation. Panary fermentation is the decomposition of the sugar or saccha- rine matter of the grain, and the recombination of its elements so as to produce aJcohel and carbonic acid gas. Vinous fermentation is essentially the same thing, this term being applied to the decom- position of the saccharine matter of fruits. The alcohol produced in bread-making is mostly dissipated by the heat of the oven, the remainder evaporating within a few hours after it is taken from the oven ; and the carbonic acid gas, being retained by the tena- cious gluten, raises or puffs up the dough. If the dough is not thoroughly kneaded, good bread can never be made. Why? If the yeast is not intimately and equally mixed with every particle of the meal or flour, the fermentation—the rotting, if you please—will be unequal, and some portions of the bread will be heavy and compact, while others will be light and spongy, and marked with open cavities. But when yeast is well mixed, the dough must be allowed to raise sufficiently, or it will be raw and clammy; and yet if the fer- mentation is allowed to proceed too far, the starch and mucilage, as well as the sugar, are, to some extent, destroyed, and acetous add or vinegar is formed, rendering the bread sour and disagree- * able. This is the acetous stage of fermentation. But if the process of decomposition goes on still farther, the gluten is more or less destroyed, literally rotted, and putrefactive fermentation exists, rendering the bread exceedingly dry, harsh, and unpalatable, especially after it is twelve or twenty-four hours old. These circumstances serve to show us that the proper manage- ment of yeast-bread requires not only careful attention, but also good judgment. A good bread-maker and bad housewife—I say nothing of vice versa—are, as might a priori be expected, seldom or never seen in the same person. It is a common error to regard bread as not over-fermented, be- cause it is not sensibly sour to the taste. Fermentation may be carried so lar as lo destroy the sweetness and richness of the loaf, and yet arrested by the bent of the oven just before any appreci-