158 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Salt Unnecessary—Hop-yeast—Potato-yeast—Milk Risings. dcrgoing a similar process. Tlie addition of molasses or mashed potatoes will accelerate the process. Most persons add salt also, and many think it indispensable; but it is wholly unnecessary so far as the formation of ferment is concerned. When the ferment or yeast has been once produced, a supply can be subsequently ob- tained much more easily, by the addition of a small quantity to the fermenting material. 2. Hop-yeast. Hop-yeast may be most conveniently made in the following manner: Boil a double handful of hops in a gallon of pure soft water for fifteen or twenty minutes; strain off the liquor while scalding hot; stir in wheat-meal or flour till a thick batter is formed: let. it stand till it becomes about blood-warm; add a pint of good, lively, fresh yeast, and stir it well; then let it stand in a place where it will keep at the temperature of about 70° Fahr., till it becomes perfectly light. This yeast will keep from one to two weeks, if corked tight in a clean earthen jug, and kept in a cool cellar. 3. Potato-yeast. Yeast made of potatoes is a favorite with some domestic bread- makers, and it is certain that very good bread can be made with it. It will not keep as long as the hop-yeast, but has the advantages of rising quicker, while it will not impart the sharp, harsh taste to bread that hop-yeast does when not well managed. Mash half a dozen peeled and boiled potatoes; mix in a handful of wheaten flour or meal, and, after putting it through a colander, add hot water until it becomes a batter. When blood-warm, stir in a teacupful of baker’s yeast, or hop-yeast, which is the same thing. When suf- ficiently raised, cork it tight and keep in a cool place. It is not quite as strong as the hop-yeast, and may bo used more freely. 4. Milk Risings. Milk-yeast, or ££ risings,” as this kind of ferment is sometimes called, is made by mixing two tablespoonfuls of flour or meal with a quart of new milk, and keeping the preparation at about or a little below blood-heat for an hour or two. It requires nearly twice