Bee ad and Beead-makinu. 153 Common Salt—Digestibility of Breads—Causes explained. <£ Those who esteem common salt an alimentary article, will reasonably presume that this bread is better than fermented ; and those who aad a large quantity of salt to their fermented bread, as indeed most commercial and public bakers do, will have an addi- tional argument in favor of the raised as coni] ared with the fer- mented bread. Besides, the raispd bread has the actual advantages that it may be put into the oven as soon as mixed, and eaten when recently from the oven, without detriment, which is not the case with the fermented, although most persons do cat this also fresh from the oven, and take the consequences. £< But I do not regard salt as an aliment; in fact, I consider breads of all kinds essentially deteriorated, not only in flavor and consis- tence, but in physiological properties, by the admixture of salt in any quantity. It is the very last place where salt should be used, if employed at all. All the cereal grains, wheat especially, con- tain considerable quantities, comparatively, of earthy, phosphates, principally phosphate of lime, which is appropriate for the sus- tenance of the bony structure : but any additional and unnecessary admixture of saline or earthy matter in those aliments which are already specially furnished with saline and earthy materials, must be the very ivorst use we caii make of them. If salt must be taken, let it be with those articles of food which contain the least instead of the greatest proportions of saline and earthy matters, as grapes, apples, cucumbers, milk, and flesh-meats.” Digestibility of Breads.—It is a remarkable fact, that un- fermented bread if well made, will “ sit on the stomach,” even with invalids, more easily than the best fermented bread, though the latter may be much lighter and more friable. It is well known —although the fact is commonly disregarded in practice—that leav- ened bread fresh from the oven is very difficult of digestion, and exceedingly obnoxious to the digestive organs. The reason of this has not been generally understood. \ It is, in my judgment, owing to three causes. 1. The presence of the small quantity of alcohol which has not been wholly dissipated by the heat of the oven. 2. The presence of a considerable quan- tity of carbonic acid gas, which gradually escapes as the bread be- comes stale. 3, The antiseptic effect which alcohol has imparted