Elements of Fooj. 27 Iron—Chlorine—Sodium—Calcium—Magnesium. tainted and partially putrescent, often produces a sulphurous discoloration to the silver knife, or fork employed in carving it. Iron is found in the ashes of many animal and vegetable substances, and is hence inferred to be a constituent of most, if not all, organized beings. But chemists tire wholly unable to determine the state in which it exists; and as the quantity is always exceedingly small and very variable, it becomes at least a matter of doubt whether it is really a constituent at all or not. It may be, when found, either an accidental impurity or the product of that process of analysis that detected it. Chlorine is found in the blood, gastric juice, and in various excretions. But how far it may be an indispensable constitu- ent, and to what extent an accidental ingredient, is not well understood. Still greater uncertainty prevails as to its exist- ence as a constituent in alimentary substances. I regard it as one of the supposed elements which are easily formed, de- composed, or transmuted by the organic economy. Sodium is found in the blood, in most of the tissues, and in the secretions generally. Common salt, however, which is a chloride of sodium, is not, as is usually supposed, an ordi- nary constituent of vegetables, with the exception of those which grow near the salt water. It is, therefore, in all prob- ability one of the subtances which the vital power can both create and destroy. Calcium is a component part of the animal tissues. It exists largely in the bones in the form of a subphosphate of lime. Jt is found in the blood, and in all the solid structures. Nearly all vegetables contain the subphosphates of lime, to a greater or less extent. Liebig thinks that the appetite some children manifest for eating the plaster which covers the walls of the houses they live in, is owing to a deficiency of lime in the food which is given them. I am of opinion that it is owing entirely to a morbid appetite induced by bad feeding generally. Magnesium exists ’n small quantities in the blood, bony