216 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Leaden Vessels—Tin Cooking Utensils—Zinc Vessels. ' • prevents their oxidatio^ and the consequent injurious effects. But even here we are liable to he defrauded, for manufacturers have been known, in some cases, to have mixed lead with tne tin, to cheapen the material, and make it work more easily, 263. Leaden Vessels. Utensils of lend are seldom or never employed for culinary pur- poses ; yet it was once the custom in some parts of England to keep milk in lead pans. Vats of lead have been used in cider-making countries; brewing coppers have sometimes been lined with lead; and the glazing of some kinds of earthenware, in which pickles are made, is made with oxide of lead. All of these are dangerous, and to he avoided if possible. 264. Tin Cooking Utensils. Tin-ware cooking utensils, as saucepans. tea-kettles^ etc., are sheets of iron coated over, or plated with tin. The same remark applies to bloclc lin. As tin does not rust itself, and prevents the iron from rusting, and as it resists great heat and changes of tem- perature, its advantages are obvious. Tin vessels, however, require to be carefully watched, and not used after the tinning has worn off. To prevent the tin from being rubbed off, the vessels should be rubbed, when necessary, with the finest whiting, powdered, mixed with a drop of sweet oil, and afterward dusted with the dry powder, and this cleaned off with sliamois leather. The reason that tin vessels appear to rust when kept in a damp place is, because, in some places, the iron is impcrlectly covered. They should, therefore, be kept dry. 265. Zinc Vessels. This metal is not much used in tne domestic economy of cooking, and should not be. A patent was once taken out in this country for an improved milk pan made of zinc. Among its pretended advantages were the effects of “ causing the milk to throw up more cream, and to prevent it from turning sour”—results owing to the presence of acetato of zinc, formed by the action of the milk on the metal.