122 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Changes of the Nutrient Material—Insalivation. of churning motion by the action of the muscular fibers or coats of the stomach. When it becomes reduced to a homogeneous mass (chyme), it passes into the first intestine—the duodenum. There it receives still another solvent—the pancreatic juice, which completes its solution. Its nutrient portion (chyle) is taken up by the lacteal absorbents, carried through a set of glands (mesenteric) which further elaborate it; it is next passed on to the lungs, where it is vitalized by contact *vith atmo- spheric oxygen ; thence it passes through the heart and arteries into the fine hair-like structure of vessels (capillaries), where the last process of digestion is performed, and the material of food finally fitted for becoming a part of each organ and struc- ture of the body. Its assimilation with, or adhesion to, the living tissue completes the complex function of nutrition. But as the philosophy of this subject ought to be understood by every mother and every cook—and every mother ought to be a cook—a few illustrations will be worth the space they will, occupy. Insalivation,—No part of the digestive process is more im- portant, and none is, by the great mass of people, so little appreciated, as that of insalivation. In order that every part and particle of our food may be thoroughly mixed with the saliva, nature, has provided six distinct glands, three on each side of the jaw, whose office is to secrete the salivary fluid. The presence of food in the mouth excites the salivary glands to action, and the act of mastication further provokes the flow of saliva. Thus, without some portions of -our food being of a solid consistence so as to secure thorough mastication, it can not be properly mixed with the saliva. It has been noticed that herbivorous animals have a much more copious secretion of saliva than the carnivorous; and it is true, also, that vegetarians of the human species have this secretion more abuudant than those who partake of a mixed diet. Spices, condiments, salt, vinegar, etc., tend to check tho