155 B It E A D AND BKEAD-MAKING. Adulterations of Flour—Bread-making Processes—Setting the Sponge. Quality of Flour and Meal.—Unless the grain is well clean- ed before it is ground, we can not have the most delicious bread. There is, too, a great difference between fresh-g>round and stale flour, the former making ineompara! ly richer, sweeter bread. Those who “eat to live,” or to enjoy, had better, therefore, look well to the kind of grain, to its being thoroughly cleaned from dust, cockle, smut, sand, chaff, etc., and to its being ground but a short time be- fore using. Frauds and adulterations are more generally perpetrated in ar- ticles of food, drink, and medicine, probably, than m relation to all other articles of commerce put together. The wheat-meal or Gra- ham flour in market, is not unfrequently an admixture of “ shorts” or “middlings,” vfith old, stale, soured, or damaged fine flour; and fine flour is sometimes—more especially in European markets— adulterated with whiting, ground stones, lone dust, and plaster of Paris. Whiting can be detected by dipping the ends of the thumb and fore-finger in sweet-oil, and rubbing the flour between them, when, if this ingredient be present, it becomes sticky like putty, and remains white; whereas pure flour wrhen so rubbed becomes very dark colored, but not sticky. Stone-dust, or plaster of Paris, may be detected by a drop or two of lemon-juice or vinegar; if either be present effervescence will take place. This test will also detect chalk, magnesia, or any other alkali. Bread-making.—The following proportions and processes ap- plicable, with slight modifications, to all kinds of bread, may as well be grouped together here, to avoid frequent repetitions. 1. One quart of “wetting,” whether of milk or water, is suffi- cient for about five quarts of flour or meal. 2. Ten quarts of flour or meal are about the quantity for an or- dinary family baking, and will make four loaves of about three and a half pounds each. 3. The temperature of the water when mixed with the flour or meal should be about blood-wrarm. 4. When yeast is used, it should be perfectly mixed or diluted with milk-warm water, and well stirred before it is put into the foul. 6. “ Setting the Sponge” is a useful precaution against bafi yeast,