Hydropathic Co^k-Book. Potassimn—Fluorine.—Proximate Elements of Food. structure, and various tissues of the body. It is also found in the cereal grains, potatoes, flesh-meat, eggs, milk, etc. Potassium is discovered in minute traces in the blood, the solids, and many of the secretions of the human body ; and it exists in nearly alTinland vegetation. Fluorine in minute quantities has been detected in the bones and teeth, but has never yet been found in vegetables; hence another presumptive evidence in favor of the ability of the vital powers to transmute supposed elements; provided, however, that fluorine be really a normal constituent of the body. Proximate Elements of Food.—The most important proximate elements (alimentary principles) into which those substances used as food can be divided, are—water, gum, sugar, starch, jelly, fat or oil, fibrin, albumen, casein, and gelatin. Various acids and salts are also properly regarded as proximate or alimentary constituents of food, because they are always found, to a greater or less extent, in a great variety of alimentary substances. They are, however, among those elements which are readily increased, diminished, modified, or transmuted by the organic processes. They vary, too, greatly in the different stages of growth, maturity, and de- cay, of vegetable substances; and are very much modified or changed by the method of cultivation. In fact, some acids and saline matters which are found in the early stages of their growth are not to be found when they are thoroughly matured. All of these proximate constituents vary exceedingly in their ability to sustain the prolonged nutrition of man or ani- mals; but neither of them alone can supply perfect nutrition, nor sustain the organism for a great length of time. Their power to do so is in the ratio of their complexity. Thus gluten, which combines in itself a greater number of elements, or, in other words, is a more complex substance in its chem- ical composition than any other alimentary principle, is capa-