26 II YDROPA T IIIC C( OK-UOOK. Carbon—Hydrogen—Oxygen—Nitroget -l’hns|>h'>riui—Sulphur. sugar, taken into the healthy stomach as food, is found again in the secretions, though it can not lie discovered in the blood —the only channel through which its elements can reach the secretory organs. Carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen are essential con- stituents of all living bodies, animal and vegetable. The first three are found in all alimentary substances, and the latter in the majority of all the animal and vegetable substances which are employed as food. Fat, starch, gum, and sugar are the chief alimentary principles which do not contain nitrogen. Liebig and some other modern chemists have advanced the theory that non-nitrogenized foods do not nourish the tissues; but in affording carbon for oxydation and the consequent evo- lution of heat, are properly “ elements of respiration.” Thus they become useful in affording the “ heat-forming principle,” while the nitrogenized foods, or those aliments which con- tain nitrogen, furnish the “flesh-forming principle.” The the- ory, however, has no practical value in dietetics, for the rea- son that all the elements of nutrition, whether heat-forming, • or flesh-forming, or bone-forming, are sufficiently distributed, and nearly equally so, throughout all those portions of both the vegetable and animal kingdom that man ever does or can employ as food. Phosphorus is an ingredient in the bones, brain, nervous structure, and in the albumen and fibrin of the tissues. It also exists in some form or proportion in nearly all vegetable sub- stances. Sul'phvr exists, though in much less proportions than phos phorus, in most animal and vegetable substances. It is pos sible, and I think quite probable, that both sulphur and phos phorus are formed by mere chemical combinations of the decomposed elements of the worn-out tissues. The human body, in many severe and exhausting diseases, and in various conditions of low vitality, frequently exhibits phosphorescent and electrical sparks; and game, when “very h'gh,” that is,