25 Elements of I'ood. Pure and Impure Waters—Medicinal Waters—Filtration. ble of sustaining the nutrition of animals longer than any other Water constbutes about three fourths of the entire bulk and weight of the human body. It forms a portion of all the tis- sues, and exists as a component part of every kind of vege table. Only a very small quantity of water is necessary as a drink, provided our dietetic and other voluntary habits are physiologically correct. The vast quantity usually taken into the stomach is called for by the feverish and inflammatory state of the system produced by concentrated food, flesh, salt, spices, etc. But it is indispensable to perfect health that all the water drank, and all that is employed in cooking, should be pure. All persons, however, do not know what pure water really is. Many mistake transparency for purity • and others think all water that is soft must necessarily bo pure. Pure water is always soft; but soft water is not always pure. Rain water is the purest known. Springs which are formed by rain water percolating through beds <>f sand or a gravelly soil, are often almost perfectly pure. River water is gene- -lly soft; but contains more or less of vegetable and animal im- purities. Well water is generally very hard, being impreg- nated with earthy salts, particularly sulphate of lime (plaster of Paris) and bicarbonate of lime. Marsh and lake zoater are usually very impure. Sea water contains an average of three and a half per cent, of saline impurities. Mineral waters are famous for medicinal virtues, precisely in proportion to the extent of their impurities. Persons are often poisoned by the medicinal properties which water, beer, soda, potter, etc., have acquired by standing in metallic vessels or leaden pipes. Water conveyed through metal tubes should always be allowed to run some time before any is drank. Filtration, will remove all the impurities suspended in com- mon water, but not those substances held in solution. A very cheap and efficient filter may be constructed in a few