II y duor atiiio Cook-Book. 46 Blanc Mange—Glue—Jellies—Saline Matters—Common Salt. jelly is a favorite article with physicians and invalids, but is far inferior to simple Indian or wheat-ineal gruel. Muscle yields, of gelatin, in 100 parts, 5 to 7 ; antlers of stag, 27 ; caviare (fresh), 0.5 ; spongy bones, 39 : hard bones, 43 to 49 ; isinglass, 70 to 93. Blanc Mange is prepared of Russian isinglass dissolved in milk and flavored with sugar, lemon, etc. Glue is extensively prepared from the skins, hides, and bones of animals, for both dietetical and commercial purposes. That obtained from c? sounds is often used as a substitute for isinglass. Jellies made from calves' feet, calves' heads, cows' heels, sheeps' trotters, and sucking pigs' feet (petittoes), are in great repute as delicate aliments for invalids and epicures. They are miserable trash as compared with vegetable soups or farinaceous gruels. Various saline matters are found to exist in small quantities in fruits and vegetables, the most abundant of which are the earthy phosphates. Chloride of sodium, or rather its elements, salts of jyotash, etc., are also generally found and regarded as essential constituents, and therefore alimentary principles. Many physiologists, with singular absurdity, deduce a conclu- sion in favor of the dietetic employment of common salt, as an external seasoning to our food, from the fact that it exists naturally as a constituent of the vegetables we employ as food. It would be not a whit less absurd to argue that our foods ought to be seasoned with salts of potash, phosphate of lime, carbonate of lime, ferruginous compounds, etc., because these are found among their proximate constituents ! Nature must have made a strange blunder, if in compounding the sub stances destined for human food, she only put in half enough of one of the requisite ingredients, but mixed all the rest in exactly the right proportions ! Pereira says : “ Though salt is a constituent in most of our foods and drinks, we do not, in this way, obtain a sufficient supply of it to satisfy the wants of the system; and nature lias accordingly furnished us with an appetite for it. The salt.