146 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Corpulency—The Mammoth Pig—Drugs and Poisons Fattening. similated than vegetable, because those specimens of the human being who eat very freely of all sorts of animal foods often become very corpulent; and others argue that, because hotrs and other animals can be fattened to an enormous bulk on a liberal supply of the flesh of other animals, that this is more nutritive than vegetable food. But the error arises from a misunderstanding of the true theory of nutrition. Nutrition, let me say again, is the replenishment of the tis- sues, not the accumulation of fat or adipose matter in the cellu- lar membrane. The latter is a disease, and a fattened animal, be it a hog or an alderman, is a diseased animal. A well- developed man or beast, of one hundred and fifty pounds weight, would not have an ounce more of real strength, of act- ing, moving, walking fiber—of bone, nerve, muscle, or sinew —if he or it should be fattened to the bulk of five hundred or a thousand pounds. Fat men, fat women, fat children, and fat pigs, are not examples of excessive nutrition so much as of deficient excretion. And the “ Mammoth Pig” now lying on his bed of straw in the vicinity of the Crystal Palace, and groaning stertorously under the load of more than half a tor. of dead, effete, adipose excrement, is far from being a specimen of either good looks or good health. Examples of human beings suffering in a similar condition are not rare, and the spectacle they exhibit teaches precisely the same lesson. Various articles which are not only not alimentary in the least, but actually poisonous, as bitter herbs, aloes, cod-liver oil, arsenic, antimony, etc., are famous for fattening man and animals; and the explanation of this phenomenon has an im- portant bearing, not only on the philosophy of diet, but on that of medication also. When any of the drugs above indicated are taken into the stomach in what are called medicinal doses, that is, in quanti- ties not so large as to cauterize, nor violently inflame, nor para- lyze the organ, the vital instincts at once perceive or feel the Injurious impression ; they recognize the presence of an enemy,