131 Theory o 5 Nutrition. Coats of the Stomach—Gastric Juice—Pylorus. inner or mucous coat of the stomach is lined with minute bodies called villi, which gives its whole surface a velvety ap- pearance. This mucous coat is also plaited into numerous folds, termed rupee, whose object is to enlarge the space for blood-vessels and nerves; and immediately beneath the mucous coat are the follicles that secrete tne mucous fluid which lubri- cates and defends its internal surface. Fig. 89 shows the internal surface of the stomach and duo- denum, and also the entrance of the bile duct from the liver into the alimentary tube. 1. Mucous membrane, forming the rugae. 2. Pyloric orifice, opening into the duodenum. 3. Duodenum. 4. Interior of the duodenum, showing the val- vulre conniventes. 5. Termination of the bile duct. 6. The common biliary duct from the gall-bladder and liver. 7. Pan- creatic duct, terminating at the same point as the bile duct. 8. Gall-bladder, removed from the liver. 9. Hepatic duct, proceeding from the liver. 10. Cystic duct, proceeding from the gall-bladder. The gastric juice, which is sometimes called the digestive fluid, from its possessing stronger solvent properties than any other of the fluids concerned in digestion, is probably secreted by the minute extremities or arteries which are expanded upon the villi of the mucous coat. A thick, strong, circular muscle surrounds the pyloric ori- fice, presenting the appearance of a prominent and even pro- jecting band. This muscular band is the pylorus, while the aperture itself is the pyloric orifice. The office of the pylorus is to guard the opening out of the stomach, and prevent the passage of aliment until it has been sufficiently acted upon by the gastric juice and the motions of the stomach. The importance attached to the nutritive function by the Great Architect of the vital machinery, and its complexity of' character, is well indicated in fig. 90, representing the vas- cular connection between the stomach, liver, spleen, and pan- creas. 1. The stomach raised to exhibit its posterior surface.