106 Hydropathic Cook-Book. « Milk affected by the Food—Children Poisoned—Distillery Slops. lactometer, which, by the way, seems to be a very unsatisfac- tory instrument for the purpose. No secretion is so readily affected by the ingesta, or the general health of the animal producing it, as the milk. The taste, color, and odor of cow’s milk are readily modified by the food. Children are in many ways, through the mother’s milk, disordered, salivated, nar- cotized, catharticized, and often poisoned. “The organic instincts, true to the first principle of self-pres- ervation, determine the accidental impurities of the body to this channel as the most ready way of expelling them from the body. Nursing mothers have little idea how much disease, pain, and misery they inflict on their little ones, nor how fre- quently they commit infanticide, by taking irritating aliments and drinks, and injurious drugs into their own stomachs. If I could present this subject to them in all its force, and in all its bearings on their happiness, and on the well-being of the human race, as I hope to attempt in a future publication, I am certain there would be a sudden and very radical revolution in the way of dieting mothers and doctoring children. The milk produced by cows fed on distillery slops, which, to the disgrace of municipal authorities, rich men are permitted to sell to the poor in nearly all our large cities, is not only very innutritious, but absolutely poisonous. In New York, Brooklyn, and Williamsburgh several thousand cows afe kept in close and horribly filthy stables, fed on warm slops, and other refuse matters of the distilleries, which rot their teeth, weaken their limbs, and render their whole bodies masses of disease ; and their mttk is furnished to our citizens as a prin- cipal article of diet for their children ! Although milk can not be considered a necessary or strictly natural food for mammals, except during the period of infancy, when the teeth are undeveloped—and no animals of the class mammalii, save man, employ it otherwise—it is nevertheless, when pure, the best form of aliment out of the strict order of natural foods. It contains all the elements requisite for pro