Hydropathic Cook-Book. 50 Extraordinary Productiveness of Wheat—Frauds and Adulterations. All the cerealia are remarkable for their extraordinary power of multiplication ; a fact to my mind presumptive at least, that starvation among the inhabitants of this world is owing, to a gieat extent, to that abuse of agricultural science which cultivates animals for the butcher, instead of corn for the reaper. A Mr. Miller, of Cambridge, England, once sowed on the 2d of June, a few grains of wheat which pro- duced eighteen stalks. On the 8th of August following he divided the stalks from each other, each having its root, and planted them again separately. Every separate plant then again tilled, threw out fresh roots and stalks. These wer- again taken up, divided, and planted as before, and so on several times. By the succeeding April they had multiplied to 800 vigorous plants; the number of ears from them O' amounted to 21,109, and the grains to 570,840! Those who superintend the preparation of food for invalids should be careful in selecting wheat whose berries are plum- and well cleaned. Millers and provision dealers are doubt- less as honest as people in general; but the y are not all either intelligent concerning or regardful of the health of their customers. The use of unbolted flour, cracked wheat, etc., opens the way to every species of fraud ; for the poorest and dirtiest kinds of wheat may be ground into Graham flour, or broken into wheaten grits without the purchaser being able to tell precisely what the impurities are. Chaff and cockle are common admixtures of the articles which are found in our markets; and stale or sour superfine flour is often mixed with “ shorts,” and perhaps a little alkali of some kind, and passed off as wheat-meal or Graham flour. Those who would be sure of a proper article had better trust only themselves. I have long since despaired of being able to get clean and sound grains, or proper farinaceous preparations at our mills in this city and vicinity, and have been compelled, in order to supply my own establishment, to construct a steam-mill on my own premises; so that by grind-