151 Bread and Bread-making. Ancient Ways of making Bread—Fermented Breads—Deterioration of Meal. moal, mixed with pure water, and baked in any convenient way. The earliest bread-makers pounded the grain on a smooth stone, or in a mortar, mixed it with water into a dough, and then baked it in hot ashes, or before the fire. Various savage tribes in this and other countries have long made, and now make in a similar manner, an excellent and delicious corn-bread. The inhabitants of new countries, where flouring mills are not to be found, often, from ne- cessity, make good and wholesome bread in this way : An excellent and well-flavored article may be made from a mixture of wheaten and rye flour and Indian meal, in proportions to suit taste or con- venience, beat up with water or milk into a moderately stiff dough, and baked for several hours is an old-fashioned iron baking-kettle. The New England women formerly made this bread in the evening, and covering the kettle with coals and hot ashes, allowed it to remain over night. For making unleavened bread, the grain should be carefully cleaned—washed, if necessary—and care should be taken to select that which is full and plump. When ground at an ordinary fiour- ing-mill, the stones should be snarp, so as to cut the grain into very fine particles. If ground by dull stones, the bran will be mashed oft' in flakes or scales. The meal or flour should be fresh ground, and never kept a long time, as it deteriorates surely, though slowly, every day after being ground. Fermented Breads.—Bread raised by fermentation may be made of the flour or meal of various grains, or of various ad- mixtures of them. But wheat, from its larger proportion of gluten, is superior to all other grains for this kind of bread. Rye contains considerable gluten, and lienee a very fair fermented bread can be made of it. Corn contains so little gluten that, though ex- cellent for^unleavened bread, it will not make good taised bread alone. Wheat and Indian, or wheat, rye and Indian, in various combinations, can, however, be made into very good fermented bread. vYhether fermented bread be made of unbolted meal, or of fine or superfine flour, it requires essentially the same management. Unbolted flour, however, requires, on account of the swelling propertv of the bran, a somewhat thinner or aof er sponge, and it