134 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Arrangement of Food in the Stomach—Remarkable Change. In consequence of these organic nerves the stomach is placed, to a great extent, beyond the reach of volition, and enabled, in a state of health, to perform its functions without mental consciousness. Yet their connection with the sentient .nerves enables us to experience pleasure when its functions are duly and healthfully performed, and causes us to suffer pain when its office is deranged or disordered. IIow much distress, and what variety of anguish, a morbid condition of the stomach induces, the victim of dyspepsia only can feel and know. By the learned and celebrated Mr. Hunter the stomach was termed the “center of sympathies.” The appellation is emphatically correct, as relates either to its sound or its mor- bid conditions. Says Dr. Southwood Smith : “ The food, on reaching the stomach, does not occupy indif- ferently any portion of it, but is arranged in a peculiar manner always in one and the same part. If the stomach be observed in a living animal, or be inspected soon after death, it is seen that about a third of its length toward the pylorus is divided from the rest by the contraction of the circular fibers called the hour-glass contraction (fig. 92, G). The stomach is thus divided into a cardiac and a pyloric portion (fig. 92, G). The food, when first received by the stomach, is always deposited in the cardiac portion, and is there arranged in a definite man- ner. The food first taken is placed outermost, that is, nearest the surface of the stomach; the portion next taken is placed interior to the first, and so on in succession, until the food last taken occupies the center of the mass. When new food is received before the old is completely digested, the two kinds are kept distinct, the new being always found in the center of the old. “ Soon after the food has been thus arranged, a remarkable change takes place in the mucous membrane of the stomach. The blood-vessels become loaded with blood ; its villi enlarge, and its cryptoa, the minute cells between the ruga;, overflow