160 Hy dkopathic Cook-Book. Flour-yeast—Yeast of Dried Peas—ITnleavened Bread. four spoonfuls of treacle or molasses, and then stir in three quar- ters of a pound of flour, or sufficient to make the consistency of a thin batter; cover lightly, and set the preparation in a moderately warm place, till fermentation takes place, which will be in a few heurs. It may then be mixed with the flour, and the bread made in the usual way. About double the quantity is required as of tluJ- common hop-yeast (No. 2). 8. Flour-yeast. Another convenient method for obtaining fresh yeast, very simi- lar to that of No. 1, is the following, which is copied essentially from the “Vegetarian Cookery.” Boil half a pound of flour and twro ounces of brown sugar in one gallon of water for an hour ; when milk-warm, put in stone bottles and cork close. It will be ready for use in twenty-four hours. Half a pint of this will be sufficient for ten pounds of bread. 9. Yeast of Dried Peas. A new and very convenient method of making leaven is the fol- lowing. Take a large teacupful of split and dried peas; put them in a pint of boiling water; cover them closely to exclude the air; place them by the side of the fire for twenty-four hours, when it should have a fine froth on the top. A tablespoonful of the liquid will raise one pound of flour. 10. Unleavened Bread. Mix unbolted wheat-meal (Graham flour), or three parts o. wlieat-meal and one of Indian-meal (coarse ground), with water sufficient to form a middling stiff dough. Some prefer hot water to “scald” the meal. Roll or mold the dough into a thin cake, not more than half or three quarters of an inch in thickness, and bake immediately in a stove or before the fire. This bread-cake wall be rather soft, but very swreet and perfectly wholesome. It may also be molded into loaves of rather small size, and baked in the oven or in the old-fashioned baking kettles, or cooked under hot ashes, after the manner of roasting potatoes. This kind of bread may be made in the same way, of different proportions of rye and Indian, or of wheat, rye, and Indian