128 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Sensation and Volition—Mastication—Taste and Smell. “It is deeply interesting to observe the part performed in these operations by sensation and volition, and the boundary at which their influence terminates and consciousness itself is lost. Mastication, a voluntary operation, carried on by volun- tary muscles, at the command of the will, is attended with consciousness, always in the state of health of a pleasurable nature. To communicate this consciousness, the tongue, the palate, the lips, the cheeks, the soft palate, and even the pharynx, are supplied with a prodigious number of sentient nerves. The tongue especially, one of the most active agents in the operation, is supplied with no less than six nerves derived from three different sources. These nerves, spread out upon this organ, give to its upper surface, a complete covering, and some of them terminate in sentient extremi- ties visible to the naked eye. These sentient extremities, with which every point of the upper surface but more espe- cially the apex, is studded, constitute the bodies termed pa- pillae, the immediate and special seat of the sense of taste. This sense is also diffused, though in a less exquisite degree, over the whole internal surface of the mouth. Close to the sense of taste is placed the seat of the kindred sense of smell. The business of both these senses is with the qualities of the food. Mastication at once brings out the qualities of the food, and puts the food in contact with.the organs that are to take cognizance of it. Mastication, a rough operation, ca- pable of being accomplished only by powerful instruments which act with force, is carried on in the very same spot with sensation, an exquisitely delicate operation, having its seat in soft and tender structures, with which the appropriate objects are brought into contact only with the gentlest impulse. The agents of the coarse and the delicate, the forcible and the gentle operations are in close contact, yet they work together, not only without obstruction, but with the most perfect subservi- ency and co-operation. “ The movements of mastication are produced, and, until they