viii Introduction. provement, bodily and mentally, of the human being, that I so strongly object to almost all that is taught and recommended in Mrs. Hale’s book. The following recipe, copied from page 159, will illustrate my mean- ing better than a long argument: “ Pork Cheese.—Choose the head of a small pig which may weigh about twelve pounds the quarter. Sprinkle over it, and the tongue* of four pigs, a little common salt and a very little saltpetre. Let them lie four days; wash them, and tie them in a clean cloth; boil them until the bones will come easily out of the head ; take off the skin as whole as possible; place a bowl in hot water and put in the head, cut- ting it into small pieces. In the bottom of a round tin, shaped like a small cheese, lay two strips of cloth across each other ; they must be long enough to fold over the top when the shape is full; place the skin round the tin, and nearly half fill it with the meat, which has been highly seasoned with pepper, cayenne, and salt; put in some tongue cut into slices, then the rest of the meat, and the remainder of the tongue ; draw the cloth tightly across the top ; put it on a board or a plate that will fit into the shape, and place on it a heavy weight, which must not be taken off till it be quite cold. It is eaten with vinegar and mustard, and served for luncheon or supper.” ’Whether such cookery is calculated to improve or misimjDrove the human race need not be argued here. If the trade of butchering animals for food has a tend- ency to imbrute the minds of those engaged in it, cer- tainly the dressing up of a pig’s head for the table, so as to resemble as nearly as possible the shape, form, features, and expression of a live pig, is equally vitia- ting to all true delicacy and refinement. Such cooking is bad enough when the only pretense about it is to gratify an exceedingly depraved appetite ; but when it is commended in a book claiming for itself peculiar merit for “setting forth the true relations of food to healthit becomes, like vice, “ A monster of such hideous mien, That to be hated needs but to be seen.”