159 Bread and Bread-making. Yenst Calces—Hard Flour Yeast—Ferment without Yeast. as much of this as of the ordinary hop-yeast for a loaf of bread. It makes an agreeable bread for those who are fond of milk, but in warm weather it soon spoils. It should, therefore, be eaten-the next day after it is made. • 5. Yeast Cakes. These may be kept for weeks or months, and are made by stir- ring good, light, fresh yeast into Indian meal, until a fine dough is formed; this is then made into thin cakes and perfectly dried. They require to be dried very soon after being mixed, or the bread raised with them will have a musty, acrid flavor. It is best to dry them by exposure to a current of warm, dry air, or what is commonly called a drying wind. Sunlight or fire seems to impair their properties. Some persons add a little rye-meal, to make tho dough more adhesive. This hard yeast requires to be kept in a * cool, dry atmosphere. One of the cakes, an inch thick, two inches wide, and three inches long, is sufficient for four quarts of flour or meal. They may be soaked in miik or water till completely dis- solved, and then used like the fluid yeast. 6. Yeast-rubs. Hard jlour-yeast, or rubs, is preferred by some to the yeast-cakes. In making them, the yeast is mixed with wheat-meal or flour, so as to be formed into hard lumps; these are then dried in a warm place, without being exposed to the sun. The filler particles should be used first, and the larger lumps put into a bag and hung in a dry, cool place. Probably the superiority of these rubs” over the “ cakes” is owing to their drying more rapidly, and thus sooner checking the progress of fermentation. Half a pint of them is sufficient for three quarts of flour. It is usual to let them soak from noon till night, on the day preceding that for wetting up the bread. 7. Ferment without Yeast. The following method for making yeast whenever wanted, is rery convenient for those who do not keep yeast on hand. Boil half an ounce of hops and the slices of one good rich apple in a quart of water twenty minutes: strain off the liquid; add to it