98 Hydkopathtc Cook-Book. Shell-fish—Food derived from Ilerbivora, Oinnivora, and Carnivora. — The Shell-fish employed as food are the lobster, crawfish, crab, prawn, shrimp, oyster, mussel, cockle, whelk, scallop, lim pit, periwinkle, etc. . Qualities of Animal Foods.—Unquestionably the very best, or, if any prefer the term, the least injurious, animal food is that derived from herbivorous animals, as beef, mutton, etc. Those animals which feed on vegetables exclusively will certainly supply a purer aliment than those which prey on other animals. Omnivorous animals, which eat indiscrim- inately vegetables or other animals, are inferior, as food, to the purely herbivorous, and the carnivorous, which eat nothing but other animals, are inferior still. Thus the hog, whose filthy carcass is converted into a mass of disease by the fat- tening process, and whose flesh .and adipose accumulations under the names of pork, bacon, and lard, are filling all Chris- tendom with scrofula, erysipelas, and foul humors, is even less pernicious to the nutritive functions than is the flesh and blood of the dog, panther, lion, tiger, hyena, vulture, etc. It is true that most of the cold-blooded animals, as various kinds of fishes, though mainly carnivorous, are not as deprav- ing aliment as is the flesh of warm-blooded or land animals, who eat carnivorously. But this is owing to their cooler tem- perament. Yet sea-food of all kinds is less nutritive and less wholesome than the flesh of herbivorous or graminivorous animals. “ But the quality of food derived from herbivorous animals may be greatly varied by circumstances. Very young or very old animals are less healthful than young, nearly full- grown, and middle-aged. Animals which have been exces- sively fattened, or stall-fed, and those which have been hand- worked, are deteriorated as food; and animals that have been ‘ slop-fed’ with liquid preparations, the refuse matters of the kitchen, or the filthy excrements of distilleries, are very un clean and unwholesome ”—Hydropathic Encyclopedia.