113 Preservation of Foods. Bottling Gooseberries and Currants—Preservation by Sealding. with the stalk-ends downward, suspended across a closet in a cool,airy room, taking care that they do not touch each other; cut down as wanted. Or this: cover the table in the fruit- room with fine, dry moss, and on this lay the bunches which have been carefully picked and cleaned of all bad berries, wiping the sound ones with a delicate piece of flannel; leave the bunches on the moss three days, each bunch by itself, which prevents the grapes from being injured by the pressure of their own weight; for want of moss, use cotton. Prepare hoops of proper strength, some three feet in diameter, with strings to suspend them, and attach the grapes to the hoop; take iron wire, just stout enough, when made into an S-shaped hook, to suspend one bunch—now fix one of these hooks to the bottom-end of the bunch, and hang it on the hoop, so as to keep each bunch by itself. When they have hung some eight days, they will be free from moisture, if the weather has not been too damp, and when they are dry, close up the room perfectly tight; examine the grapes every eight days, remov- ing all bad ones.” Green gooseberries and currants, if gathered in very dry weather, may be cut from the stalks carefully, and dropped gently into wide-mouthed bottles. The bottles are then to be corked and rosined or cemented, and buried below the frost, or kept in a very dry, cool cellar. They will keep still better if the bottles are plunged for a few moments in hot water before corking. Scalding fruit, so as to coagulate the gluten, and thus arrest the fermentation, has been resorted to successfully in preserv- ing some kinds of fruits, especially apricots, gooseberries, cur- rants, raspberries, cherries, and plums. Wide-mouthed stone bottles are filled with the fruit, carefully picked; they are then placed in a kettle filled with cold water nearly to the mouth of the bottles, and the water heated to one hundred and sixty-five degrees. After subjecting the fruit to this degree of heat for half an hour, the bottles are hermetically sealed.