161 Beead and Bread-making. Fermented Bread—Kaised Bread—Proportions of Acid and Alkali. Fine flour with equal parts of Indian or of rye and Indian, makes a fair article of unleavened bread. 11. Fermented Bread. Good leavened bread may be made with either fine or coarse wheaten flour or meal, or of either of these with various admix- tures of rye or Indian, or both; also with either or all of the above, and various proportions of apples, pears, pumpkins, potatoes, po- tato flour, etc. A wooden bowl or well-glazed earthen pan, large enough to hold double the quantity of flour to be used, is the most convenient kneading vessel. To ten quarts of flour or meal add about three gills of hop-yeast, or a pint of potato-yeast; the fer- mentation must be carefully watched, and when sufficiently raised, if the oven is not then ready, it must be molded into loaves and kept cool until put in the oven. 12. Raised Bread. Soda, magnesia, saleratus. pearlash, and even ammonia and lime, have been used as alkalies, and vinegar, sour milk, lemon juice, tartaric acid, cream of tartar, and muriatic or hydrochloric acid have been employed as acids, in the manufacture of raised bread without fermentation. So far as healthfulness is concerned, there is little to choose between bicarbonate of soda with sour milk, or this alkali with hydrochloric acid. The next best selection is tartaric acid and the bicarbonate of soda) and next in order, cream of tartar and the bicarbonate of soda. Cream of tartar is, how- ever, very liable to adulteration by the druggists or manufacturers. Saleratus and pearlash are very pernicious Articles. When sour milk and soda are used, the quantity of the soda must be somewhat proportioned to the milk ; the more acid or sour the milk, the more of the alkali wall be necessary. The point in prac- tice is to have one exactly neutralize the other, so that the bread will neither taste £! ashy” or caustic, nor sharp and tart. As a genera! rule, one tcaspoonful—sixty grains or a drachm—of bi- carbonate of soda, known also as supercarbonate and sesquicar- bonate of soda, is sufficient for a pint of sour milk. When the bicarbonate of soda and muriatic acid are employed, forty grains of the former will neutralize fifty drops of the latter. If tartaric