77 A LI M K N T S; OK FOODS P li O P E R . Molons Vunn^ias—Squashes—Cultivation ot Squashes and Cucumbers. desirable; be.'. 3 to well-trained vegetarian stomachs it is both palatable and woesome, however it may be with dyspeptics. The Melon i Ov '«n\is melo) is the generic term tor all the varieties of mask and watermelons. The Afuskmelon is a de- licious fruit, and very easily digested by most stomachs. Some varieties, as the nutmeg, are exceedingly sweet and con- siderably nutritive. The cantaloupe is a famed variety in Italy. A warm sandy soil produces the richest fruits. Watermelons are somewhat less nutritive, and, to weak stom- achs, more liable to occasion griping or colic. Some of the curcubitaceous fruits should not be eaten until fully ripe. The cucumber, however, appears to be innocuous in all stages of its growth. Of Pumpkins we have few varieties; but a good quality of any fruit is better than a great variety. The most com- mon in our markets are the common red and the West Indian. Both are excellent for sauce or pies. The dried fruit may be kept good the year round. The dried fruit is pulverized by the Shakers, and sold under the name of pumpkin powder. Squashes are found in our markets in much greater variety than pumpkins, and many kinds are equal to the best pump- kins for pies. The cream, marrow, and Lima are among the most delicious kinds for either sauce or pies. Squashes are generally classed as Summer or Winter varieties. The latter sometimes grow to an enormous size. I have seen them of over 200 pounds weight. In choosing squashes or pumpkins, those of the firmest, heaviest texture are to be preferred. Squashes and cucumbers may be raised in almost any yard or vacant place, in the following manner: Take a large barrel or hogshead, saw it in two in the middle, and bury each half in the ground, even with the top. Then take a small keg and bore a small hole in the bottom. Place the keg in the center of the barrel, the top even with the ground, and fill in the barrel around the keg with rich earth, suitable for the grow th