Aliments, or Foods Proper. 103 Flesh of Fowls—l’umet—Delicate Morsels—Enlarged Livers—Callipee. The Dark-flesheclBirds.— Grouse, robin, snipe, hoodcoclc, etc., are more greasy and savory to epicures, but less nutritive and less wholesome. Pereira says of the flesh of these birds : “It is richer in ozmazome, and when sufficiently kept, it ac- quires a peculiar odor called fumet, and an aromatic bitter taste, most sensible in the back. In this condition it is said to be ripe or high, and is much esteemed as a luxury.1’ Pro- fessor Dunglisou eulogizes this “fumet,” which is as much the stench of putrefaction as is the “cadaverous smell” of carniv- orous birds, still more extravagantly. He says: “ The solu- bility of game—grouse, etc., is amazingly increased, as well as the luxury of the repast by keeping until it has attained the requisite fumet, which indicates that incipient putrefaction is diminishing its cohesion.” The “luxury of putrefying animal flesh” sounds strangely to those whose stomachs and appetences have been for years “ cleansed from all flesh.” “ Carrion crows” might, perhaps, with no violation of the laws of a low order of life, enjoy such a repast. Geese, ducks, and other aquatic birds, are strong, oily, and hence unwholesome. The canvas-back, though considered a great luxury, is very greasy, rancid, and unhealthful. Fowls are usually fattened for the market by confining them in dark places, and cramming them with barley-meal, mutton suet, molasses, and milk, which usually ripens them in a fort- night, but renders the flesh half-putrid and exceedingly ob- noxious. Particular parts of certain birds have long been celebrated as “ delicate morsels” by the epicure and the gourmand ; as the brains of the ostrich and peacock, the tongues of the night- ingale and flamingo, the trail or intestine of the woodcock, the enlarged liver—fatty degeneration—of the goose. iiie flesh of turtles is usually prepared in the forms of steak and soup. The callipee, which is considered the most “ delicate” part, is the under part of the breast or belly. Sir Ilans SI Dane