Hydropathic Cook-Book. 152 Raised Bread as compared with Fermented—Acids and Alkalies. should be baked about one half longer than bread made of better flour. Raised Bread.—Although bread is raised also by fermentation, the term “ raised bread’’ technically applies to that which is ren- dered light or puffed up by means of acids and alkalies instead of yeast. Whether raised or fermented bread is the best or worst / depends very much on the manner in which the bread-making pro- cess is managed. It is a choice of evils. In .making unfermented raised bread, the bicarbonate or sesqui- carbonate of soda and hydrochloric or muriatic acid are employed, in proportion of forty grains of the alkali to fifty drops of the acid. Various other alkalies have been more or less employed, but the above are probably the least objectionable. The alkali is dis- solved and diffused through the mass of dough, and then the acid is diluted and worked in as rapidly as possible. The raising or puffing-up material is the same as when ferment or yeast is em- ployed ; for the hydrochloric acid combines with the soda of the bicarbonate, forming common salt—hydrochlorate of soda—and leaves the carbonic acid gas free to puff up the dough. The evil, then, with raised bread, is the presence of common salt; and that of fermented bread is the destruction of the sugar, one of the proximate elements of the grain. Which is the worst ? Since the publication of the Hydropathic Encyclopedia I have given much attention to this question, but do not find any cause to alter or modify the opinion therein expressed. I will therefore quote: “ Raised bread, or bread made light by acids and alkalies, is used to some extent in this country and in England. It has been thought by some that this method of bread-making was an improvement on the fermenting process; but in numerous experiments, I could never succeed as well with acids and alkalies as with 'yeast; nor do I conceive the plan to be as healthful, provided both processes are managed in the best possible way. It is true that a part of the sugar is destroyed by fermentation, and it is true that if the acid and alkali usually employed exactly neutralize each other, there is no extraneous ingredient formed and retained in the bread except common salt. wdiiJc all the natural properties cf the grain are left unclu- ged