Elements of Food. 45 Caseum or Cnrd—Cheese—Gluten—Gelatin. legumin. Many vegetable juices yield it in small quantities. Almonds, nuts, and oily seeds contain it with albumen. It is soluble in water and its aqueous solution is not coagulated by heat. Animal casein is the coagulable matter in milk, and forms its caseum or curd. Heat does not coagulate it in the liquid state. Cheese is the coagulated casein deprived of its whey, and mixed with more or less of butter. Cheese which con- tains a large proportion of butter—usually called rich or strong cheese—is very liable to become poisonous by spontaneous decomposition. Old strong cheese is among the vilest of die- tetic abominations. Fresh curd and green cheese are com- paratively wholesome. Gluten is a compound of several organic principles, and exists most abundantly in wheat. It is also contained in greater or less proportions in nearly all the cereal grains, and in most edible roots, leaves, stalks, etc. It is the gluten of wheaten flour which renders it elastic and adhesive, and hence conveniently manufactured into maecaroni, vermicelli, and similar pastes. It is the gluten also which retains the car- bonic acid evolved in the process of fermentation, and thus enables yeast and acids and alkalis to raise bread. The quantity of gluten yielded by vegetable alimentary substances varies with the soil, climate, mode of cultivation, etc. Chemical analysis has found in wheat, in 100 parts, 12 to 35 ; barley, 5 to 0; oats, 4 to. 8; rye, 7 to 10 ; rice, 3 to 4; corn, 3 to 0; common beans, 10; dry pea#, 8i; pota- toes, 3 to 4 ; red beet, 1.3; common turnips, 0.01; cab- bage, 0.08. Gelatin abounds in the bones, ligaments, tendons, cartilage, integuments, etc., of animals. When boiled with water into a tremulous mass it is called animal jelly. Gelatinous sub- stances are moderately nutritious, but their usual preparations in the forms of stews, soups, hashes, etc., are difficult of diges- tion on accouut of the fatty matters they contain. Calfs-foot