1J v d r o r a t ii i c Cook-Book. 44: Flesh ami Fat of Swine—Fibrin—Albumen—Casein. of their fatty character, or of the grease cooked into them, are yolk of eggs, livers, brains, strong cheese, butter cakes, pas- try, marrow puddings, suet puddings, hashes, stews, broths, and several kinds of fishes, as eels, sprats, salmon, herrings, etc. The greasy parts of that filthy animal, the hog, in the shape of fat pork, bacon, lard, sausages, etc., are prolific sources of scrofula, erysipelas, jaurMice, liver diseases, leprosy, scurvy, and a variety of cutaneous blotches, discolorations, and erup- tions. Fibrin, albumen, and casein exist alike and are identical in chemical constitution in both animal and vegetable foods. But they are formed only in the vegetable Kingdom ; hence, as heretofore intimated, those who eat flesh get precisely the same nutritive elements as those who eat bread ; yet they are always more or less deteriorated by admixtures with morbid secretions, and waste and putrescent animal matters. Vegetable fibrin is found abundantly in the cereal grains, and in the juice of grapes, it also exists in considerable quan- tities in the juices of many esculent roots and vegetables, as carrots, turnips, beet-root. Animal fibrin is the principal constituent of lean muscle o> lean flesh. It is also found in fresh blood, from which it car easily be obtained by stirring with a stick until a clot ic formed, and then washing the clot repeatedly. Vegetable albumen exists in the greatest proportion in oilj seeds, almonds, and other nuts. It is a constituent of all th<? grairi3, and*carrots, turnips, asparagus, cabbages, and othe«* esculent roots; fruits and vegetables contain it in considerable quantity. It differs from fibrin in dissolving in water, and from casein in not coagulating when heated. Animal albumen exists in the solid state in the flesh, glandr. and viscera, and in the fluid state in the egg, and in the serum of the blood. Vegetable casein is found chiefly in leguminous seeds—peas, beans, and lentils—from which circumstance it has been called