Aliments, or Foods Proper. 87 Varieties of Potatoes—Preparations of Potatoes—Potato Disease. the surface of the earth. Indigenous to South America, it was not generally cultivated in England till the middle of the eighteenth century. It is found abundantly in the wild state in Chili and Peru; and the ground-nut, which is found in all the wilderness parts of North America, is supposed by many to be the original from whence all our fine varieties of pota- toes are derived by cultivation. According to chemical analyses, the best potatoes are al- most, if not quite, as nutritive, pound for pound, as the best flesh-meat; and certainly twenty or thirty pounds of them can be raised at the expense that will fatten a single pound of beef or pork. The best early potato in the New York market is the Mer- cer; and for winter use the Kidney is to be preferred. Still, much depends on the locality of their growth, as well as on the kind of root cultivated. Of each of these kinds there are several sub-varieties, as the Early Shane, Early Champion, Monarch, Red Round Kidney, Lady's Finger, Blue Nose, Round White Kidney, Castor, Bread Fruit, etc. All potatoes are more valuable as they are more mealy or farinaceous, and inferior as they are watery and waxy. Polato-Jlour, or the dry starch powder of the root, has been sold in England under the name of Indian Corn Starch, Bright's Nutritious Farina, English Arrow-Root, etc. The Sweet Potato (Convolvulus batata) is also a tuberose root, common in warm countries, and very extensively culti- vated in the Curolinas, Virginia, Delaware, New Jersey, and some other States. The potatoes of Shakspeare, and the Spanish potatoes and batatas of other authors, are the root we generally designate as the sweet potato. 1 he potato has lately been found to be wonderfully anti- scorbutic; a property which all fresh and wholesome aliments possess in the same degree. A disease, or degeneration of this tuber, called potato rot, has prevailed extensively for several years past, and appro