Theory of Nutrition. 143 The Entire Lacteal Sysiem—Receptacle of the Chyle—Defecation. to the mesenteric glands. These glands are small, rounded, oval, pale-colored bodies, consisting of two sets, arranged in a double row, the set nearest the intestine being the smallest. Fig. 97 is a view of the entire lacteal system, or the tho- racic duct, from its origin to its termination. 1. Lacteal vessels emerging from the mucous surface of the intestines. 2. First order of mesenteric glands. 3. Second order of mesenteric glands. 4. The great trunks of the lacteals emerging from the mesenteric glands and pouring their contents into—5. The receptacle of the chyle. 6. The great trunks of the lymphatic, or general absorbent system, terminating in the receptacle of the chyle. 7. Thoracic duct. 8. Termination of the thoracic duct at—9. The angle formed by the union of the internal jugular vein with the left subclavian vein. In the first series of glands the lacteals intercommunicate so freely that the glands themselves appear to consist of a congeries of convoluted lacteals. Proceeding onward to the second set, they are there again convoluted in a similar man- ner ; and after passing from thence the lacteals unite into larger and larger branches successively, until they finally form two or three trunks which terminate in the small oval sac called receptaculum chyli—in it also terminate the absorbent vessels called lymphatics, which bring back to the circulation waste and superfluous matters taken up from every tissue and organ of the body. The chyle and lymph are, therefore, both poured into the venous blood just as,it is about entering the right side of the heart, to be immediately transmitted to the lungs for arterialization and purification. Dei-ecation. In the large intestines is performed the pro- cess offxcation the secretion from the blood of effete matter, and the expulsion of the waste or innutritious portion of the aliment. The abdominal portion of the digestive organs, with the divisions of the large intestines, are seen in fig. 98. 1. Es>