Elements of Food. 25 Experiments on Animals:—Chemical Elements. idea. A potato, an apple, or a grain of wheat, is a compound of various alimentary principles; but it is a simple, and in no sense a compound food. Compound wheat, compound potato, etc., would be as appropriate phrases as are compound food, and compound aliments. The error above alluded to, trivial as it may seem to the casual reader, has caused hundreds of foolish experiments to be tried on dogs, cats, rabbits, hares, hogs, sheep, and even on the human animal, with a view of ascertaining the dietetic virtue of particular alimentary principles. Theseviotims«of science have been fed on sugar, gum, starch, butter, cheese, fat. fibrin, albumen, gelatin, etc., exclusively, and with the uniform result of sooner or later starving to death. No ani- mal can sustain prolonged nutrition on any single alimentary principle, though all of them may on a single aliment. Chemical Elements of Food.—Chemists reckon, as con- stituting the ultimate elements of food, thirteen simple sub- stances, viz.: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phospho- rus, sulphur, iron, chlorine, sodium, calcium, potassium, mag- nesium, and fluorine ; and Pareria, assuming that “ a living body has no power of forming elements, or of converting one elementary substance into another,” deduces thence the infer- ence that “ the thirteen essential constituents of the human body must, therefore, be the elements of our food.” This proposition requires explanation; for although it may be and probably is true that organized bodies have no power of transmuting one actual element into another, or of creating elements, yet it is perfectly demonstrable that the vital ener- gies of both animals and vegetables have power to decompose substances, usually regarded as elementary, and to transmute, and even form, to some extent, what are usually considered to be chemical elements. Thus lime is found in the bones of the chick, while no trace of it can be discovered in the fluid of the egg, from which the chick derives its sustenance; and 2