Aliments, ok Foods P kopek. 105 Milk—Cream—Skimmed Milk—Bracotle—Osmazome. ivay of aliment. Some writers have contended that eggs, hard- ened by boiling or frying, agree better with laboring people, and those who take active exercise, than in the soft or liquid state. But such persons commit the common blunder of mis- taking the momentary feelings of a morbid stomach for the physiological properties of alimentary substances. Milk.—As the article in the Encyclopedia on the dietctical nature of milk contains precisely what 1 wish to say now on the same subject, I can do no better than transcribe it: “The milk of the mammals, though an animal secretion, can hardly be called animal food, in strict language. It contains, on the average, nearly ninety per cent, of water, and about ten per cent, of solid matter, consisting of butter, casein, sugar, and various salts. The cream of cow’s milk, according to Berzelius, consists of butter 4.5, casein or curd 3.5, vdiey 92.0=100.0. By agitation, as in churning, the globules of fatty matter unite, and form butter; the residue is called buttermilk ; it consists of casein, serum, or whey, and a very small quantity of butter. Skimmed milk very soon becomes acid and curdy. The ad- mixture of an acid or rennet (which is the infusion of the fourth, or true stomach of the calf) immediately coagulates it, sepa- rating the casein, or curd, from the whey. The addition of acetic acid will cause a still further separation of coagula, which has been called zieger, bracotle, etc. After the separa- tion of casein and zieger, the whey left yields lactic acid, salts, and some nitrogenous substances, one of which is supposed to be osmazome. Osmazome, however, does not appear to be a tangible reality, but a flavor or effluvia developed by the chemi- cal changes which take place in several animal substances during the process of cooking—heating, roasting, boiling, etc. Good milk is a homogeneous but not viscid liquid, not coagu- lable by heat. When examined by the microscope it appears to consist only of transparent spherical globules. The cream yielded varies from five to twenty per cent,, as tested by tho