Hydropathic Cook-Book.. 150 Test of good Bread—General Rules—Unleavened Bread. able acid is developed. And it is precisely here that the great ma- jority of domestic bread-makers fail. Bread is too generally pro- nounced good if it do not feel sticky and heavy on the one hand, nor taste sour on the other. But bread which is t! very good’’ must, in addition to these negative qualities, possess the positive recommendation of being absolutely delicious to the senses of taste and smell. • General Rules for Bread-making.—1. Although a fair article of fermented bread can be baked in a common cook-stove or range, yet a brick oven is preferable. 2. The best ovens are constructed of an arch of brick, over which is a covering of ashes, and over this a covering of charcoal, with a finishing layer of bricks over all. This arrangement of non-conductors retains the heat so long, that cakes, pies, apples, custards, etc., can be baked after the bread. 3. The fire should always be made nearly on the back side of the oven. 4. A new oven should be heated at least half of the day previous to baking in it, and the lid kept closed after the fire is out until heated for baking. 5. The oven must be heated until all the bricks look red, and are free from all black spots; but not hot enough to burn flour quickly when sprinkled on the bottom. 6. Whenever bread looks porous and full of holes, it is ready for the oven. It will then exhale a brisk, pungent, lively, but not in tho least degree acid, odor. 7. When bread becomes light enough be- fore the oven is ready, it should be kneaded a little, and then kept in a cool place. 8. When removed from the oven it should be taken out of the pans or basins, and placed endwise in a cool, well- ventilated place. 9. When the dough has been properly kneaded, it should be covered with a napkin or light woolen blanket, and kept at about summer temperature, 60° Falir., until sufficiently light. 10. In very warm weather, the sponge should not stand over night, but be mixed in the morning early, and baked in the afternoon. 11. The process of fermentation is arrested at a tem- perature below 30° Fahr., proceeds slowly at 50s, moderately at 60®, rapidly at 70°, and very rapidly at 80°. Unleavened Bread.—The best bread that ever was or ever will be made is unquestionably that of coarse-ground, unbolted