83 Aliments, ok Foods Pkopek. The Mamma—Litchi—Jujube—Papau—Avocado—Anchovy—Mango. Asia, and others of America. The white guava is abundant in the West Indies. It is a pleasant, pulpy, juicy fruit, about the size of a hen’s egg. The Mamma '(Afammen Americana) is also a native of the West Indies. The tree is large and tall, and the fruit resem- bles a russet apple in size and shape, and the apricot in flavor. The Litchi (Dimocarpus litchi) is a Chinese fruit, about as large as the orange, and of a sweet, agreeable flavor. The Jujube (Siryphus) is a favorite fruit of Spain and Italy. In China it js abundant. The French apothecaries make it into a paste or lozenge, which is sold at the shops. The Juvia (Bcrthollatia excelsa) is the fruit which incloses the triangular grains called Brazil nuts. I am not aware that it has ever been brought to this country. The Papau (Carica papaya) grows on a tree which has no branches, in the East and West Indies. It is about the size of an ordinary melon, and contains an acid milk, which con- tains a large proportion of fibrin, like that of animal flesh. The Avocado pear (Sausus persica), sometimes called the Alligator, is a West Indian fruit, about the size of the apple. Its pulp is very delicious, and considered superior to the peach. The Anchovy pear (Grias caulijlora) is also a West Indian fruit. In taste it resembles the mango. The Mango (Mangi/era indica) is one of the most esteemed of the tropical fruits. It has a thin skin and an interior pulp, which is slightly acidulous and gratefully aromatic. The trees on which this fruit grows rise to forty or fifty feet in height. In India many varieties are cultivated. The fruit will not keep long after ripening, but is then exquisitely fine- flavored and very nutritious. The Banana (Musa sapientum) abounds over the torrid zone of America, and is a principal food for millions of the human family. It is said to produce more nutriment from the same space of ground than any other plant of the vegetable king