137 Theory of Nutritio n. Rapidity of the Digestive Process—Office of the Bile. gus, and its pyloric orifice by the contraction of the py- lorus. “The rapidity with which the process of chymification is carried on is different according to the digestibility of the food, the bulk of the morsels swallowed, the quantity received by the stomach, the constitution of the individual, the state of the health, and, above all, the class of the animal, for it is widely different in different classes. In the human stomach, in about five hours after an ordinary meal, the whole of the food is probably converted into chyme.” The office which the bile performs in relation to the digest- ive function, has long been a controverted point. My own opinion is, that bile is wholly an excrementitious substance, although in the process of expulsion it may act as a chemical solvent of fatty matters, which are taken into the stomach with our food, or a's a part of it; and may also serve as an an- tiseptic to other effete matters which pass off bv the bowels. Brodie and Mayo, of England, Tiedeman and Graelin, of Ger- many, and Leuret and Lassaigne, of France, have each and all satisfied themselves by experiment that the bile is some way recrementitlous, and that its presence is necessary to separate the chyle from the chyme in the first intestines. They cut open the abdomen of animals, tied the common gall-duct, then fed the animals as usual, and on killing them some tune after, and examining their bodies, found precisely what might have been expected—no chyle in the intestines or lacteals. But my explanation is somewhat different from theirs. In my judgment, the local inflammation and general fever consequent on the injury were sufficient to interrupt the process of diges- tiou, and pi event the due formation of chyle, just as fevers au*. inflammations do when arising from a variety of other causes. Nor can I regard the bile, in any degree, as the natural “ stimulus ’ to the peristaltic action of the bowels; nor can I assent to the common doctrine that a deficency of bile is a cause