Theory of Nutrition.' 119 Nature of Stimulus—Nutrition Defined—Illustrations. though food which had exactly the right proportion of carbon for wholesome nutriment must necessarily be poor! And we not uncommonly meet with a poor, wretched invalid, who has suffered through half a lifetime, more of infirmity and misery than could be related in a month—all attributable to improper dietetic habits—who, on being told that the adoption and rigid persistence in a plain vegetable dietary will in a few years re- store him or her to comparative health and usefulness, and very materially prolong the period of existence, replies with solemn,yetalmost ludicrous gravity, “Iliad rather live a little letter, and not quite so long.” If such expressions do not mislead those who hear them, they do certainly indicate any thing but clearness and precis- ion in the minds of those who employ them ; for no person who entertains definite and correct ideas of the relations of food to health, could ever talk in this nonsensical manner. Definition of Nutrition.—Pure and perfect nutrition im- plies the assimilation of nutrient material to the structures of the body, without the least excitement, disturbance, or impres- sion of any kind that can properly be called stimulating. All stimulus, therefore, is directly opposed to healthful nutrition, and a source of useless expenditure or waste of vital power. Different substances taken into the stomach with food, or as food, may excite preternatural actions or commotions—arouse vital resistance—but such effects are no parts of their nutritive operations or qualities. Stimulus has no applicability to food ; it applies only to foreign substances, as drugs, medicines, and* other poisons. Brandy applied to a feeble stomach, or the lash applied to a jaded horse, is a good illustration of a stimulant operation. Each induces action without affording material whereby to sustain that action. Rost and pure aliment are the only true restoratives in either case; and to neither of these can attach the idea of that preternatural turbulence of the or- ganism which denotes the operation of a stimulus. .