156 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Three Essentials in Bread-making—Quantity of Yeast. as, if it does not rise well, the batter may be removed without wasting much of the flour. It is done as follows: Make a deep round hole in the middle of the flour or meal, pour in the yeast; then, with a spoon, stir into the liquid as much flaur as will make it a thin batter ; and finally sprinkle this over with dry flour or meal until it is entirely covered. The pan or trough is then to be covered with a warm cloth and set in a warm place—by the fire in the winter, and where the sun shines, when practicable, in summer. When the yeast is fresh and sweet, equally good bread may be made without setting the sponge ; but. most bread-makers think the sponge facilitates the subsequent kneading. 6. When the sponge is made, it should stand until the batter has swelled and risen so as to form cracks in the covering of the flour; and then the mass should be immediately formed into dough, by mixing in gradually as much warm water as may be necessary. It must then be thoroughly kneaded—molded over and over with the clenched hands—till it becomes so smooth, light, and stiff, that not a particle will adhere to the hands. The dough is next to be made into a lump in the middle of the vessel, dusted over with flour to prevent adhesion, covered with a warm cloth, and kept near the fire about «ne hour, or until it has become sufficiently light. Lastly, it is to be made into separate lumps, molded on pasteboard, form- ed into loaves, and placed immediately in the oven. The Three Essentials.—All bread-makers agree that, three things must be exactly right, or good bread can not be made—the quality of the yeast—it must be sweet and lively; the extent or de- gree of fermentation—just enough and none too much; and the heat of the oven—the bread must be well cooked, but not at all burned. A failure in either particular will result in a poor article of bread. It is impossible, however, to give more precise rules, for after all is said that can be, something must be left to the careful observation and judgment, of the cook. Practice here will make perfect; and no Dread-maker who duly estimates the importance of good bread, will be long in getting the exact tact in the management of all these particulars. But another essential, not less important than either of the pre- ceding, may be mentioned, viz., the quantity of the yeast. Many a