135 Theory of Nutrition. Phenomena in Digestion—Solvent Power of Gastric Juice. with fluid. This fluid is the gastric juice, which is secreted by the arterial capillaries now turgid with blood. The abundance of the secretion, which progressively increases as the digestion advances, is in propoition to the indigestibility of the food, and the quietude of the body after the repast. In the food itself no change is manifest for some time; but at length that portion of it which is in immediate contact with the surface of tho stomach begins to be slightly softened. This softening slowly but progressively increases until the tex- jure of the food, whatever it may have been, is gradually lost; and ultimately the most solid portions of it are completely dis- solved. • “ When a portion of food thus acted on is examined, it pre- sents the appearance of having been corroded by a chemical agent. The white of a hard-boiled egg looks exactly as if it had been plunged in vinegar or in a solution of potass. The softened layer, as soon as the softening is sufficiently advanced, is, by the action of I he muscular coat of the stomach, detached, carried toward the pylorus, and ultimately transmitted to the duodenum; then another portion of the harder and undigested food is brought into immediate contact with the stomach, becomes softened in its turn, and is in like manner detached; and this process goes on until the whole is dissolved. “ -Ihe solvent power exerted by the gastric juice is most apparent when the stomach of an animal is examined three or four hours after food has been freely taken. At this period the portion of the food first in contact with the stomach is wholly dissolved and detached; the portion subsequently brought into contact with the stomach is in the process of solution, while the central part remains very little changed. “ lne dissolved and detached portion of the food, from every part ot the stomach flows slowly but steadily beyond the hour- glass contraction, or toward the pyloric extremity, in which not a particle of recent or undissolved food is ever allowed to remain. 1 he fluid, which thus accumulates in this portion of