HYDROPATHY j Children, their Hydropathic Management In Health and Disease. Dr. Shew.. .$1 75 Cook Book. Hydropathic. With New Recipes. Illustrated. By Dr. Trail, 1 50 Diseases of the Throat and Lungs, Including Diphtheria. By Dr. Trajl. ,25c. Domestic Practice of Hydropathy, with 15 illustrations of important sub- jects. By E. Jolmson, M.D 2 00 Family Physician, Hydropathic. By Dr. Shew, a large and valuable work for Home or Domestic Practice. Pro- fusely illustrated 4 00 Midwifery and the Diseases of'Wo- men. A practical work. Shew 1 75 Philosophy of Water-Cure. By J. Balbirnie, M.D. Por beginners 50c. Practice of Water-Cure. By Drs. Wilson and Qully £0c. Alcoholic Controversy. A Review of the Wutminster Heview on the Physio- logical Errors of Teetotalism .50c. Anatomical and Physiological Plates. These Plates were arranged expressly for Lecturers on Health, Physi- ology, etc. By R. T. Trail, M.D. They are six in number, representing the normal position and life-size of all the internal viscera, magnified illustrations of the organs or the special senses, and a view of tho principal nerves, arteries, veins, muscles, etc. For popular instruc- tion, for families, schools, and profes- sional reference, they will be found far superior to anything of the kind hereto- fore published, as they are more complete and perfect in artistic design and finish. Price for the set, fully colored, backed and mounted on rollers. By express (not mailable) 20 00 Combe’s Physiology, applied to the Improvement of Mental and Physical Education. Notes. Hlustratcd 1 75 Digestion, Philosophy of. The Prin- ciples of Dietetics. By Dr. Combe, 50c. m, WATER CURE. Hydropathic Encyclopedia: illus- trated. A Complete System of Hydro- pathy and Hygiene, embracing Anatomy, illustrated; Physiology of tne Human Body; Hygienic Agencies, and the Pres- ervation of Health; Dietetics and Cook- ery ; Theory and Practice of Treatment; Special Pathology and Hydro-Therapeu- tics, including the Nature, Canse, Symp- toms, and Treatment of all known Diseases- Application to Surgical Dis- eases and to Hydropathy, to Midwifery and the Nmwery. With Three Hundred Engravings, and nearly One Thousand Pages, including a Glossary, Table of Contents, and Index, complete. By R. T. Trail, M.D 1 .4 50 Of all the numerous publications which have attained snch a wide popularity, as issued by this nouse, perhaps none are more adapted to general utility than this rich, comprehensive, and well-arranged Encyclopedia.—JV. Y. Tribunt. Water-Cure in Chronic Diseases?" an exposition of the Causes, Progress, and Terminatien of Various Chronic Diseases. By Dr. J. M. Gully. An im- portant work 2 00 HTSIQLOGY. Family Gymnasium. With numerous illustrations; containing the most im- portant method of applying Gymnastic, Calisthenic, Kinesipathic, and Vocal ex- ercises to the development of the hodily organs, the invigoration of their func- tions, the preservation of health, and cure of diseases and deformities. By R. T. Trail, M.D 1 75 Food and Diet, containing an Analysis of every kind of Food ana Drink. By Dr. J. Pereira. Edited by Dr. Lee, 1 75 Fruits and Farinacea tho Proper Food of Man. With Notes and illustra- tions. By Dr. Trail. Muslin 1 75 Hereditary Descsnt. Its Laws and Facts applied to Improvement 1 60 Infancy; or, the Physiological and Moral Management of Children. Hlustrated. By Dr. Combe. Muslin 1 60 Movement-Cure. Embracing the His- tory and Philosophy of this System of Medical Treatment. Hlustrated. By G. H. Taylor, M.D 1 75 Prevention and Cure of Consump- tion by the Swedish Movement-Cure. By David Wark, M.D 80c. Natural Laws of Mon. By Dr. Spnrz- heim. A capital work. Muslin ....75c.