Hydropathic Cook-Book. 154 Antiseptics—Vinegar—Alcohol—Spirits—Salt—Acids and Alkalies. to the constituent elements of the bread. Alcohol, though power- fully destructive to living matter, is preservative of dead matter. The explanation is, that all living matter, while vital, is under- going continual transformations; and to be preserved alive, must be kept in a condition or state of perpetual change. But the pres- ervation of dead matter implies that it be kept in a fixed and un- changeable chemical state, its elements being prevented from decom- positions or recombinations. It is on this principle that all antiseptics operate. Thus vinegar, alcohol, spirits, common salt, solutions of arsenic, corrosive sublimate, etc., which preserve fruits, seeds, and animal and vegetable substances so long unchanged, totally unfi‘ them for food, while they are of themselves absolute poisons. All bread, whether raised, fermented, or unieavened, to be di gested without undue “wear and tear” of the digestive apparatus, must be light, dry, friable, and so porous as readily to absorb water. Bread is also comparatively indigestible if underbaked or over- baked. It is a common error that bread can hardly be overdone in baking. The truth is, that its dietetic nature and its digestibility begin to deteriorate the moment it is fairly cooked. We should, therefore, be just as cautious to take it from the oven as soon as baked sufficiently, as we are to have it remain until well done. Those who have never paid attention to this matter, are little aware how much the flavor and wholesomeness of bread is improved by baking it just enough, yet not a moment too long. When the crusts of loaf-bread are thick and hard, it is custom- ary to wrap the loaf, fresh from the oven, in several folds of wet cloth, to soften it. But this practice is objectionable for the reason that it prevents the free escape of the alcohol and carbonic acid gas, produced by fermentation, thus rendering the bread also more diffi- cult of digestion. The existence of all saline and alkaline matters which have been added to the flour by the cook—common, or table salt not excepted—renders it to some extent less digestible. The antisep- tic property of salt accounts lor its injurious effects, and the use of alkalies is one of the most prolific sources of weak stomachs, ulcerated bowels, sore throats, cankered mouths, etc.