P RESERVATION OF FOODS. Ill Rules for Gathering Fruit—Preservation of the more Perishable Fruits. Preservation of Fruits.—In gathering fruits for winter use, great care should be taken not to bruise them nor break the skin, as the injured parts soon rot. Apples, pears, etc., intended to be kept as long as possible, should be care- fully picked from the trees, not bent nor shook off. They should also be gathered on a clear dry day. The more deli- cate kinds, as peaches, apricots, and nectarines, should not even be wiped, as this would rub off their bloom or down, and makes them decay more rapidly. Choice apples and pears may be kept very well, and often the year round, by wiping them gently dry, covering each with dry, soft paper, and laying them on shelves; or on shelves covered with paper without wrapping them. Pears and apples, if gathered a few days before perfectly ripe— not over six or eight—and packed carefully with dry moss, sand, bran, or in baskets lined with stout paper, will keep through the winter. Pineapples may be kept much longer than usual by twist- ing out the corners, which, w'hen suffered to remain, absorb and exhaust the juice of the fruit. There is probably no better way of preserving oranges and lemons than by wrapping them singly in papers, and packing them in jars or in dry sand. The principal condition on which the preservation of the more perishable fruits depends, is the exclusion of atmospheric air. The more perfectly this is effected, the longer and better will the fruits be kept unchanged. And many fruits may be kept good for months, with a mere trifle of sugar, provided the air is nearly all excluded from the vessels which contain them, when otherwise they could not be kept.without being preserved in sugar, pound for pound. I have known straw- berries, whortleberries, peaches, pears, tomatoes, quinces, blackberries, etc., put up in this way, very nearly as well fla- vored and fresh in the middle of the winter as when first gathered in their season.