136 Hydropathic Cook-Book. Action of the Duodenum—The Stomach during Chymiflcation. the stomach, is a new product, in which the sensible properties of the food, whatever may have been the variety of substances taken at the meal, are lost. This new product, which is termed chyme, is an homogeneous fluid, pultaceous, grayish, insipid, of a faint sweotish taste, and slightly acid. “ As soon as the chyme, by its gradual accumulation in the pyloric extremity amounts to about two or three ounces, the following phenomena take place. “First, the intestine called duodenum, the organ immedi- ately continuous with the stomach, contracts. The contrac- tion of the duodenum is propagated to the pyloric end of the stomach. By the contraction of this portion of the stomach, the chyme is carried backward from the pyloric into the car- diac extremity, where it does not remain, but quickly flows back again into the pyloric extremity, which is now expanded to receive it. Soon the pyloric extremity begins again to contract; but now. the contraction, the reverse of the former, is in the direction of the duodenum ; in consequence of which the chyme is propelled toward the pylorus. The pylorus, obedient to the demand of the chyme, relaxes, opens, and affords to the fluid a free passage into the duodenum. As soon as the whole of the duly prepared chyme has passed out of the stomach, the pylorus closes, and remains closed, until two or three ounces more are accumulated, when the same succes- sion of motions are renewed with the same result; and again cease to be again renewed, as long as the process of chymifi- cation goes on. “ When the stomach contains a large quantity of food, these motions are limited to the parts of the organ nearest the pylorus; as it becomes empty, they extend farther along the stomach, until the great extremity itself is involved in them. These motions are always strongest toward the end of chymifica- tion. “The stomach during chymiflcation is a closed chamber; its cardiac orifice is shut by thevalved entrance of the osopha