35 Elements of Food. Waters purified by Filtration—Cooling Water—Gum—Sugar. The principle of filtration being understood, all persons under almost all circumstances can contrive some plan of pro- curing a sufficient supply of pure water for drinking purposes. It must be recollected, however, that substances held in solu- tion are not removed in this way. Ordinary well or mineral waters, which, though transparent, are hard, can only be puri- fied by distillation; and this is an expensive and tedious pro- cess. But river, brook, rain, or water containing vegetable, animal, and gaseous impurities, which give it a discolored or muddy appearance, can be purified in this way. Cooling water is, in this climate, generally effected with ice. But when ice is not obtainable, it may be advantageous to many to be reminded that water, in any ordinary earthen or stone pitcher, or other vessel, can be reduced several degrees by evaporation. Place several folds of linen or cotton cloth around the vessel, wet them as often as they become dry, and the constant evaporation will gradually abstract the heat of the water within the vessel. The more porous the vessel is, the more rapidly will the water cool. Gum, or mucilage, exists almost universally in plants. Barley-meal contains in one hundred parts, 4; oatmeal, 2; wheat-flour, 2 to 5; wheateri -bread, 18; rye-meal, 11 ; corn, 2; rice, 0.1 ; peas, 6 ; garden bean, 4; kidney bean, 19; po- tatoes, 3 to 4; cabbage, 3; sweet almonds, 3; ripe green- gage, 5 ; ripe fresh pears, 3 ; gooseberries, 0.78 ; cherries, 3 ; ripe apricot, 5; ripe peach, 5; linseed, 5; mashmallow root, 35. Sugar is generally distributed throughout the vegetable kingdom. It is also found in the milk of animals. Wheat (lour contains (rejecting fractions) S per cent.; wheat bread, 4 to 8; oatmeal, 8; barley-meal, 5 ; rye-meal, 3; maize, 1 to 2; rice, 0.05 to 0.2D; peas, 2; sweet almonds, G; figs, G2; tamarinds, 12; ripe green-gage, 11; pears, 6; ripe gooseberries, G; ripe cherries, 18; ripe apricot, 11; ripe peach, 1G ; melon, 1 to 2 ; beet root. 5 to 9; milk. '4 to 7.