43 Elements of Food. Physiological Errors—Volatile Oils—Fixed Oils or Fats. properties of fatty and oily matters. By most medical wri- ters they are said to be “ eminently nutritious,” though all confess they are very “difficult of digestion.” This, to my mind, is a physiological contradiction. The writers of the Liebig school of chemistry have props* gated some very absurd vagaries about the use of oleaginous foods in the animal economy. Upon the well-known facts that carbon exists largely in alimentary substances ; that- car- bon is oxydized in the system ; and that the chemical combi- nation (combustion) of oxygen with carbon is attended with the evolution of heat, these chemico-dietetico-physiological philosophers have constructed a theory, that a large amount of grease, fat, oil, butter, blubber, or something similar, is necessary to keep the body warm, especially in cold climates. And I hear that certain Water-Cure doctors and professors of hygiene are teaching the same ridiculous notions, as if they were the veritable demonstrations of science. The volatile oils of several vegetables which are employed chiefly as condiments, are regarded as alimentary by some authors. This is a mistake. Though some vegetables them- selves, as radishes, onions, mustard, garlics, leeks, etc., contain alimentary properties with this volatile oil, the oil itself is as destitute of them as alcohol or vinegar. The quantity of oil or fat in 100 parts of the following sub- stances is: filberts, GO; olives, 32; olive seeds, 54; walnuts, 50 ; earth nut, 47 ; cocoa nut, 47 ; almonds, 46 ; plums, 33 ; white mustard, 36; black mustard, 18; grape stones, 11 to 18; maize, 9; dates, 0.2; yolk of eggs, 28; ordinary flesh- meat, 14; ox liver, 4; cow’s milk, 3.13; human do., 3.55 ; ass’s do., 0.11 ; goat’s do., 3.32 ; ewe’s do., 4.20 ; bones of sheep’s feet, 5.55 ; bones of ox head, 11.54. Though fixed oils or flats are among the most injurious materials of diet, they are rendered still more objectionable by the usual methods of cooking, baking, and frying. The most objectionable dishes at ordinary tables, on account