Philosophy of Sacred History, con- sidered in relation to Human Aliment and the Wines of Scripturo. By Syl- vester Graham 8 60 Physiology, Animal and Mental, applied to Health of Body and Power of Mind. Blustrated. Muslin 1 60 The Story of a Stomach : an Egotism. By a Reformed Dyspeptic 75c. Sober and Temperate Life, with Notes and Bluatratione by Louis Cornaro...50c. Tea and Coffee, their Physical, Intellec- tual, and Moral effects. Alcott 26c. MIS01LL JEsop’s Fables. People’s Pictorial Edition, beautifully illustrated 1 00 Pope’s Essay on Man. With Phreno- logical Notes by S. R. Wells. Beautiful- ly illustrated. Gilt, bev. boards 100 Aims and Aids for Girls and Young Women. By Rev. G. S. Weaver. ..1 25 Footprints of Life ; or, Faith and Na- ture reconciled. A Poem in three parts. By Philip Harvey, M.D. Part 1st- -The Body. Part 2d—The Soul. Part 3d— The Deity. Something new 1 25 Fruit Culture for the Million; or, Hand-Boolc for the Cultivation and Management of Fruit Trees 1 00 Benny. An Illustrated Poem. By Anna Chambers Kutchum. Publish- ed in elegant style of Enoch Arden. 1 50 Home for AH. The Gravel Wall, a New, Cheap, and Superior Mode of Building. With Engravings 1 60 Hopes and Helps for the Young- of both Sexes. By Rev. G. S. Weaver. An excellent work. Muslin 160 Life in the "West; or, Stories of the Mississippi Valley. By N. C. Meeker, of the New York Tribune 2 00 Notes on Beauty, Vigor and Devel- opment Blustrated 12c. Oratory, Sacred and Secular; or, The Extemporaneous Speaker. With Sketches of the most Eminent Speakers of all Agss. By William Pittenger, Author of “Daringand Suffering.” In- troduction by Hon. John A. Bingham, and Appendix containing a “ Chairman’s Guide ” for Condncting Public Meetings according to the best Parliamentary Mod- els. Tinted paper 160 The Science of Human Life. By Syl- vester Graham, M.D. With a Biogra- phical Sketch of the Author 8 60 Teeth, their Structure, Disease and Man- agement, with Engravings 26c. Tobacco, its Physical, Intellectual and Moral Effects. By Alcott 25c. Special List. We have, in addition to the above, Private Medical Works and Treatises on subjects which, though not adapted to general circulation, are in- valuable to those who need thorn. This Special List will bo sent on pre-paid application, or on receipt of stamp. &HEOXFS* Man, in Genesis and in Geology: or, the Biblical Account of Man’s Crea- tion, tested by Scientific Theories of his Origin and Antiquity. By Joseph P. Thomson, D.D., LL.D. In one volume, 12mo 1 00 Saving and "Wasting; or, Domestic Economy. Dl. By Solon Robinson, 1 50 Temperance in Congress. Ten Min- ute Speeches in the House of Representa- tives on the First Meeting of the Con- gressional Temperance Society 25c. Temperance Reformation—Its His- tory from the First Temperance Socle'y to the Adoption of the Maine Law. By Armstrong 1 50 The Christian Household. Embrac- ing the Christian Home—Hnshand, Wife, Father, Mother, Child, Brother and Sis- ter. By Rev. G. S. Weaver 1 00 Wedlock; or, the Right Relations op tub Sexes—Disclosing the Laws of Conjugal Selection, and showing "Who May and Who May Not Marry. A Scien- tific Treatise. By S. R. Wells. One vol., 12mo, 250 pages, plain muslin, 1 50 The same, in fancy gilt binding 2 00 The Right Word in the Right Flaoe. A Pocket Dictionary of Synonyms, Technical Terms, Abreviations, Foreign Phrases, etc 75c. Ways of Life. The Right Way and the Wrong Way. Bv Rev. G. S. Weaver. A capital Work. Muslin 1 00 Weaver’s Works for the Young. Comprising “Hopes and Helps,” “Aims and Aids,” and “ Ways of Life,”. ...8 00 Agents, Booksellers, and others would do well to engage in the sale of these Works, in every State, County, Town, and Village throughout the country. They are not kept by Booksellers generally. The market is not supplied, and thousands might be sold where they have never yet been Introduced. For Wholesale Terms, and “ Special List,” please address, SAMUEL R. WELLS, 389 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.