Bread and Bread -making 157 Brewer’s Yeast Objectionable—Making the Original Ferment. loaf of bread is spoiled or seriously damaged by using too much. The strength of yeast may vary considerably, and its fermenting property deteriorate ■with ago; but of the best fresh hop-yeast, about one large tablespoonful is the proper quantity for an ordinary baker’s loaf. ■ If the yeast is old, a larger quantity will be required, but the bread will not be as good. This fourth essential, however, like the others, can be perfected only by experience. Ferment, Leaven, or Yeast.—I find that the majority of cook- books recommend distillery or brewer’s yeast for domestic bread- making, because it is stronger. It is precisely for this reason that I object to it. 1 have never seen a good loaf where it was used, nor do I think such an article will ever be seen. When brewer’s yeast is employed, the fermentation is so rapid, that after the loaf appears to be light enough, before the process is arrested in the ordinary method of management, some of the constituents of the flour or meal—all of the sugar, probably, and a part of the starch and gluten—will be chemically destroyed, rendering the bread of a strong, harsh, and bitterish taste. To senses of smell and taste as susceptible as all senses ought to be, such bread-will also impart an impression of putrescency or rottenness, analogous to that which is always disagreeably perceptible from the fermenting vats and slop-tubs of a distillery. Fresh hop-yeast is probably the very best ferment we can em- ploy in the making of leavened bread; but as a good article of leaven, comparatively, can be produced in various ways, and as it may suit the convenience of all to have a variety of recipes, the following formularies are therefore given, with which the second part of this work may as well commence. 1. Original Ferment or Yeas't. Orfeinal ferment may be procured, or yeast made without using other yeast, by subjecting any kind of flour or meal to fermenta- tion. Wheaten flour or meal is generally employed ; mix the flour or meal with water or milk into a batter or thin dough, and let it stand exposed to the temperature of about summer heat—66° to 70°. Fahr.—until it ‘‘rises” or ferments. It will then communi- cate the fermenting property to any other material capable of un-