Kings College LONDON cavJ ft % «/ , fat V ft C ttfftK Library L/fW" " A WQlL&C\W (tdfaif jf- <tfii £i»CgnliJ pcifo/tyfcjr flV #*■»$ . (. A 1 201114152 8 l-I II II KING’S COLLEGE LONDONr. \ 4 \A CORRECTED REPORT n f) n oi CJ, -%y.„ A. , OF THE SPEECHES DELIVERED BY MR. LAWRENCE, AS CHAIRMAN, AT TWO MEETINGS OF MEMBERS OF THE iSopal College of Surgeons, HELD AT THE FREEMASONS’ TAVERN. WITH AN APPENDIX, CONTAINING THE RESOLUTIONS AGREED TO AT THE FIRST MEETING, AND SOME ILLUSTRATIVE DOCUMENTS. PUBLISHED AT THE REQUEST OF THE COMMITTEE APPOINTED AT THE FIRST MEETING. LONDON: PRINTED FOR CALLOW AND WILSON, MEDICAL BOOKSELLERS, PRINCES STREET, SOHO; And R. HUNTER, 72, ST. PAUL’S CHURCH YARD. 1826.; Printed by Joseph Mallett, 59, War dour Street, Soho, LondonADVERTISEMENT. In compliance with the wishes of the Committee appointed at the general meeting of Members of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, held at the Freemasons5 Tavern on the 18th of February, 1826, the following' pages are presented to the pub- lic ; not as a full discussion of the subjects to which they refer, but as a sketch, for general information, of the complaints made by the members respecting the constitution arid management of the College. Some documents will be found in the Appendix, shewing the course of professional education pres- cribed by other public bodies and in other coun- tries, and the nature of their examinations for sur- gical degrees or diplomas. The printing of these pages was nearly finished, when a paper, intended as a vindication of the Col- lege rulers, issued “ by order of the council,55 and authenticated by the official signature of EdmundIV Belfour, Secretary, silently and almost secretly came forth ;—it can hardly be said to have been published. It will be found in the Appendix, No. XIV, for which it was just in time. The Com- mittee considered it fair towards the Council to give additional publicity to a defence, which, from the modesty of its authors or other reasons, had been confined to a very partial and sparing circulation : they felt at the same time that the propriety of the steps hitherto taken by the members, and of the further measures in contemplation, receives the strongest illustration and support from this docu- ment. W. Lawrence. 18, Whitehall Place, 13th May, 1826.CONTENTS. Page. Speech delivered on the 18th of February 1 Ditto ditto 4th of March 32 APPENDIX. No. I. Resolutions agreed to by the General Meet- ing at the Freemasons' Tavern .. 55 — II. History and Constitution of the College of Surgeons G2 — III. Mr. Bennett's Statement of his own Case... 73 — IV. Regulations of the Royal College of Sur- geons in London, respecting Education and Examinations, as issued in a cor- rected Form, in February, 1826 79 —- V. Regulations of the Society of Apothecaries 82 — VI. (A) Course of Instruction and Qualifica- tions required for the Army Medical Ser- vice 84 (b) Regulations of the Board of Admiralty respecting the Professional Studies and Examinations of Naval Surgeons 87VI Page. Comparative View of the Qualifications required of Candidates for the lowest Rank in the Military and Naval Ser- vice by the College, of Surgeons, and by the Army Medical Board, and the Lords of the Admiralty 89 No. VII. Course of Study required by the Royal College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, and Regulations respecting the Exa- mination for Diplomas 91 — VIII. French System of Surgical Education and Examinations 95 — IX. Course of Study and Examination for the Degree of Doctor in Surgery, at the University of Leipzig 99 — X. Course of Study, $c. at Berlin 102 — XI. Course of Study in the Medical School of Vienna, and Nature of the Exa- minations for Medical and Surgical Degrees 105 — XII. Course of Medical and Surgical Study, and of Examination for Degrees in the University of Maryland 110VI1 Page. No. XIII. Comparative View of the Studies re- quired by various public Bodies, in this and other Countries, before a Candidate can be admitted to Exa- mination; and of the Nature and Number of the Examinations. *— XIV. Observations in refutation of Charges, publicly made by certain Members of the College of Surgeons, against its legally constituted Authorities 115 Remarks on the foregoing Observations 125SPEECH DELIVERED THE 18th OF FEBRUARY, 1826. Gentlemen, I shall not detain you from the important busi- ness of this evening by any lengthened acknowledgment of the honour you have conferred on me in nominating me to fill this chair ; I briefly, but sincerely, thank you, and shall endeavour to shew my sense of the compliment, by promoting, to the best of my ability, the objects for which we are now assembled. We meet, Gentlemen, in pursuance of an advertisement addressed to the members of the College of Surgeons, and in order to devise the best means of remedying the abuses which exist in the management of that institution. As we are members of that College, it may be supposed that the considerations which have brought us together, and the ends we aim at, concern ourselves merely : I do not regard the matter in that limited view, but am of opinion, that it is a subject of great public interest. There is hardly an individual who does not, in some period of his life, require the assistance which our pro- fession can afford. All are exposed to disease and acci- dent, and few entirely escape them; they, who are not personally involved, are often deeply interested in the sufferings of relations and friends. Hence it is a matter of universal concern, that all impediments to the advance- ment of surgery should be removed, and that talent and B2 industry should meet with every encouragement in the cultivation of so useful and honourable a profession. Hence, too, it will be a just ground of general complaint, if the proceedings of a public body, expressly instituted to watch over and promote the interests of surgical science, should not only fail to accomplish those pur- poses, but actually retard the progress of students by new obstacles and multiplied difficulties. The Legislature, Gentlemen, has rightly estimated the importance of our profession, and lias evinced, in various charters and acts of Parliament, its solicitude for the advancement of surgical science. The Government has always shewn a great desire to further the same object. We see the strongest proof of its liberal and wise re- gard for science, in its having' purchased and presented to the College of Surgeons the invaluable Museum formed by the late John Hunter; and we have to regret that the general management of the Museum, and par- ticularly the regulations under which access to it is al- lowed, have been so little in harmony with the enlight- ened spirit and the just views of public utility, which led to this munificent donation. In the charters and acts of Parliament relating to our College, it is called the “ Corporation of Master, Gover- nors, and Commonalty of the Art and Science of Surgeons of London the term “ commonalty” must of course denote the general body of members. Now, Gentlemen, what share have we, the commonalty, in managing the affairs of our College? Can any of you point it out? I confess that I am not able to describe it; at least our rights, so far as I understand them, are all of the negative kind. In short, the commonalty, or general body of members, consisting of gentlemen who must, in the first instance, have received a liberal education, and have sub-3 sequent] y devoted themselves to scientific pursuits, are carefully excluded from all participation in the adminis- tration of College concerns. They have no voice in tlie election of the ruling body, which is strictly self-elected, and its members hold their office for life; they have no controul over the expenditure of the College funds, nor any knowledge of their amount or appropriation, which are kept profoundly secret; they have only a very limited access to that Museum, which has been so liberally pro- vided for their use; they are not allowed to enter the theatre of the College by the same door which gives ad- mission to the Members of the Court, and their friends: lastly, in the charter obtained by the College in 1822, the commonalty or members are, I believe, not once men- tioned. Our rulers, having left the city for a genteeler residence, seem to have become ashamed of every thing that could remind them of their former civic abode and their humble origin as a trading' corporation. Hence they took the trouble of gaining the Royal permission to exchange the names of Master, Governors, and Court of Assistants, for the more high-sounding titles of Pre- sident, Vice-President, and Council ; and they at the same time achieved the important object of having a mace; the constitution of the College remaining un- altered, and the narrow exclusive system of manage- ment, which existed in Monk well Street and in the Old Bailey, being most carefully preserved. A recent act of the governing body has added largely to the negative privileges of the Members ; and, but for that act, the present meeting would probably not have taken place. Mankind are generally patient under in- justice, when not immediately affected ; resistance is not offered until individuals suffer, until personal interests are attacked. In the year 1824, the ruling body of the b 24 College of Surgeons promulgated some new regulations most insulting to the members at large, and oppressive to certain individuals, whose injuries and complaints have roused a spirit of resistance, and led to our present meeting. The regulation or bye-law to which I allude, is a complete code of restriction and exclusion; short indeed, but comprehensive, and effective for its object. I will read it to you, that you may understand its scope and nature, and see the bearing of the remarks which I have to offer*. 44 Royal College of Surgeons in London.—The Court of Examiners, in pursuance of their duty to promote the cultivation of sound chirurgical knowledge, and to dis- countenance practices which have a contrary tendency, have resolved:— 44 That, from and after the date hereof; 44 The only Schools of Surgery recognized by the Court be London, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen: “ That certificates of attendance upon the chirurgical practice of an hospital, be not received by the Court, unless such hospital be in one of the above recognized schools, and shall contain on an average one hundred patients: 44 And, that certificates of attendance at Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, the Theory and Practice of Surgery, and of the performance of Dissections, be not received by the Court, except from the appointed Pro- fessors of Anatomy and Surgery in the Universities of Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen; or from persons teaching in a school acknowledged by the medi- * The Appendix, No. II. contains a short history of the College, with the most important parts of the charter, from which its present organization and powers are derived.5 cal establishment ot one of the recognized hospitals, or from persons being Physicians or Surgeons to any of those hospitals. “ Candidates for the Diploma will be required to pro- duce, prior to Examination, Certificates— “1. Of having been engaged six years, at least, in the acquisition of professional knowledge: “ 2. Of being twenty-two years of age.—And, accord- ing to the above resolutions: “ 3. Of having regularly attended three winter courses, at least, of Anatomical Lectures ; and, also, one or more winter courses of Chirurgical Lectures: “ 4. Of having performed Dissections during two or more winter courses: “ 5. And of having diligently attended during the term of, at least, one year, the Chirurgical Practice of an hos- pital. “ Candidates under the following circumstances, and of the required age, are also admissible to Examination : “ Members of any of the legally constituted Colleges of Surgeons in the United Kingdom. “ Graduates in Medicine, of any of the Universities of the United Kingdom, who shall have performed two, or more, courses of Dissection, as above specified; and who shall have regularly attended, during the term of, at least, one year, the Chirurgical Practice of one of the above described hospitals. “ The above rules are required to be observed by can- didates to be examined for the testimonial of qualifica- tion of Principal Surgeon in any service. “ Candidates for the testimonial of qualification of Assistant-Surgeon, in any service, must have attended six months, at least, the Chirurgical Practice of an hos- pital, as above described ; and two or more courses of6 Anatomy, one course of Surgery, and one of Dissections, as specified. “ By order: “ Edmund Belfour, Secretary. “ 19th day of March, 1824. “ Candidates are to observe that Tickets of Admission only, will siot be received as Certificates or Evidences of attendance.*” * The Court of Examiners, by whom this regulation was made and published, consisted of Sir D. Dundas W. Norris, Esq. T. Forster, Esq. Sir Everard Home Sir Ludford Harvey Sir W. Blizard Sir A. Cooper J. Abernethy, Esq. W. Lynn, Esq. H. Cline, Esq The last eight, out of these ten individuals, were Surgeons of Lon- don hospitals; and some of them had near relations and connections in similar situations. Some of them, and the near relatives and connec- tions of some, gave lectures on Anatomy and Surgery ; but only winter courses. At the medical schools of the several hospitals, to which the members of the Court of Examiners, who made the above regulation, were Surgeons, no summer course of lectures on Anatomy and Surgery are given, but only winter courses. A few days before or since the first general meeting at the Free- mason’s Tavern, the Court of Examiners have sent forth a new version of their regulations, without date. The difference between this and the document in the text is inconsiderable; but it is to the latter that the observations in these speeches are applicable. The former is printed in the Appendix, (No. IV.) that the public may estimate the degree of literary talent existing in a body which possesses the right of examin- ing the acquirements and knowledge of those who are about to exer- cise an important profession, and which assumes the power of direct- ing the nature and amount of professional study. The revised and corrected edition, on which the latest labours of the learned body have been bestowed, is still more contemptible as a literary production, and rather more confused and obscure than the original. It is reprinted7 In the first place, Gentlemen, this regulation is drawn up and expressed in a very confused and inaccurate man- ner: it is no less mean and contemptible in composition and language, than odious in its spirit and enactments. The Court of Examiners, not contented with a simple exercise of authority, have stated their motives. When power thus condescends to reason with us, it invites dis- cussion, which does not always end in making us satis- fied with its mandates. The reasons of the Court consist of one object, which they wish to accomplish, and an evil, which they seek to avert. The former is “ to promote sound chirurgical knowledge.” We are accustomed to contrast knowledge and ignorance; but this is the first time that I have heard of the two sorts of knowledge, sound and unsound. We say of timber that it is sound or unsound ; an apple or a pear may be sound or rotten : but, if a person knows a certain subject, if he has acquired a certain portion of knowledge, how can that be unsound When we meet with a difficult passage, we must look to the context. Pursuing this direction, we arrive at the literally, the very punctuation being* preserved. Since the third and fourth rules respecting candidates for the diploma are mere nonsense as they now stand, it may not be amiss to propose a conjectural emen- dation, which will at least make them intelligible. The word ff subse- quent” has probably been written by mistake for ce consecutive.” The clause printed in italics, having no grammatical or significant con- nection with the surrounding matter, must feave reached its present situation fortuitously: amputation is the only treatment that can be proposed for it. Some persons will probably doubt whether this document can have proceeded from a body of men at the head of the surgical profession. It is indeed, in matter and manner, much worthier of the name and era of the Corporation, than of the Royal College. Its genuineness has been carefully ascertained by express and direct inquiry in the proper quarter.8 desired explanation. We find that the soundness or unsoundness of knowledge depends on the season of the year in which it is acquired, and on a certain accidental circumstance in the situation of the individuals who im- part it. Sound anatomical and surgical knowledge is that gained in the winter season, and derived from the surgeons or physicians of London hospitals, or from per- sons teaching in a school recognized by the medical es- tablishment of certain hospitals, or from the appointed professors of anatomy and surgery in the Universities of Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen. Unsound knowledge is that acquired in any other season except winter, or from any teachers except those enumerated above. So much for the object they wish to attain, the “ promotion of sound chirurgical knowledgewe then come to the evil they propose to avoid, viz. “ practices which have a contrary tendency.” Practices which have a tendency contrary to sound knowledge! What can be the meaning of this phrase? Common persons would have supposed it unfavourable to knowledge to restrict the study of anatomy and surgery either in time or place, especially in a country like England, where the neces- sary means of the former pursuit sometimes cannot be procured at all, and are never attainable without difficulty and great expence -but the authors of the regulation are of a decidedly contrary opinion. In short, Gentle- men, we can collect nothing from this preamble, except the alternative, either that a complete confusion of ideas must have prevailed in the heads from which it emanated, or that the objectionable nature of the contemplated measures was so strongly felt by their authors, as to suggest the necessity of covering them by a decent pre- text; and this miserable attempt at giving reasons was thought better than nothing. As laws are designed to9 regulate the conduct of mankind, the first duty of legis- lators is to avoid all ambiguity, to express themselves in the plainest language, so as to render their meaning in- telligible to ordinary understandings. The College law- makers have shewn themselves unequal to the easy task of drawing up properly so simple a document as the regulation already quoted. We may hence judge whether their regulations are likely to promote sound knowledge, or to prevent practices which have a contrary tendency. Yet, Gentlemen, it is by the framers of so contemptible a production, it is upon these miserable pretexts, that the great body of the profession, not only in London, but in the country, are to be disqualified from teaching their science to others. How great soever their superiority in talent, or in the power of imparting knowledge, what- ever stores of information a long course of industry and fortunate opportunities may have enabled them to amass, they are absolutely excluded, so far as the power of the Court extends, from all share in teaching anatomy and surgery, unless they should be surgeons or physicians to a London hospital; although it is notorious that these appointments, being often procured by numerous con- nexions and powerful interest, are not in themselves a criterion of talent and knowledge, and that they have been held in many instances by persons of no professional reputation. It is necessary, Gentlemen, that we advert for a mo- ment to the distinction which is laid down in this famous regulation between summer and winter courses of lec- tures. The candidate must have attended at least three winter courses of anatomical lectures, and one winter course of surgical lectures, and must have performed dissections during two winter courses. Now, Gentle- men, I must observe, that these legislators have required10 on this occasion what cannot be performed. In London, whatever may be the case elsewhere, there are, in fact, no winter courses given, at least no winter courses so called. You know very well that two courses of lectures are delivered in each year, the one commencing in Oc- tober, the other in January. But that which begins in October, is called by the lecturers themselves, according to their advertisements in the newspapers, the “ autum- nal course,” and that which commences in January, is uniformly denominated the “ spring course.” You see, therefore, that the candidate cannot comply with the law ; there is no winter course of lectures for him to attend. If it should be answered, that the meaning of the Court will be understood by students and by the profession, in spite of their own document, I shall readily admit it, observing only that they, who presume to regu- late professional education, ought at least to be able to express their own meaning clearly in a composition of a few lines. This regulation, however, requires a closer examination; it will be worth while to investigate its nature and objects a little more narrowly. As the winter is most favourable for dissection, it has been customary to employ that season for teaching, not only anatomy, but also the various other branches of medical education. You must know that the subjects, to which the student is obliged to attend, are so numerous, that he cannot ad- vantageously embrace the whole at one time; his mind would be distracted with their multiplicity and rapid succession. In particular, he could not avail himself of the various lectures and at the same time pay the neces- sary attention to the practical pursuit of anatomy and surgery. A well-judged plan of education, instead of perpetuating this system of crowding so many occupa- tions into a certain portion of the year, called the ana-li tomical season, would proceed just on the opposite prin- ciple. The comfort and convenience of students, as well as their progress in knowledge, would be much more effectually consulted by diffusing over the whole year the opportunities of receiving instruction, and re- cognizing the fitness of the summer for that purpose. What reason can be assigned for giving lectures in the winter, rather than in the summer? Although the former season is better suited than the latter for dissection, it is often necessary, and still oftener convenient to students, to employ in anatomical pursuits some portion of the greater comparative leisure and longer day-light which are afforded in the five months between April and October. Sometimes a sufficient supply of subjects cannot be procured during the winter season ; or the student may be disabled by illness. Hence summer courses of anatomical instruction have been opened in London of late years ; and the opportunities thus afforded have been eagerly embraced by large numbers of stu- dents, especially by many whose time and pecuniary means have been limited. The great obstacle to ana- tomical pursuits, from the difficulty of procuring sub- jects, and the heavy expences to which students of surgery are unavoidably exposed, must be increased by this strange novelty of requiring that every thing should be done in the winter, and this obvious attempt to de- stroy the very existence of summer anatomical classes. Finding in the nature of the subject no justification of such an attempt, but every reason for an opposite course of proceeding, we are at a loss to account for the deter- mination of the Examiners. Some will find a sufficient, if not satisfactory, ground of their conduct, in the cir- cumstance, that they are nearly all interested, either personally or by their relations and near connexions, in12 the anatomical schools at which winter courses of lec- tures only are given, while the summer lecturers are their competitors and rivals. The Court of Examiners have not been satisfied with specifying the proper season for gaining anatomical and surgical knowledge; they have, with equal accuracy and carefulness, designated the places at which such know- ledge must be sought, and the persons by whom it must be communicated. They have resolved “ that the only schools of surgery recognized bj^ the Court be London, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen: “ That certificates of attendance upon the chirurgical practice of an hospital be not received by the Court, unless such hospital be in one of the above recognized schools, and shall contain on an average one hundred patients: “ And, that certificates of attendance at lectures on anatomy, physiology, the theory and practice of surgery, and of the performance of dissections, be not received by the Court, except from the appointed professors of ana- tomy and surgery in the Universities of Edinburgh, Dub- lin, Glasgow, and Aberdeen ; or from persons teaching in a school acknowledged by the medical establishment of one of the recognized hospitals, or from persons being physicians or surgeons to any of those hospitals.” Without adverting to the strange phraseology, by which London, Dublin, &c. are called schools of surgery, I beg you to observe that by the second clause, the privi- leged hospital must be in one of the recognized schools, that is in London, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, or Aber- deen ; while, by the next, or third clause, the medical establishment of an hospital [without any description or specification of the persons comprehended under that vague term] are to have the power of acknowledging a13 school (what can that mean?) from the teachers in which the Court will afterwards receive certificates. Now, Gentlemen, to say nothing of the absurdity of supposing, as this regulation does, that anatomy and surgery may be taught by the physicians of an hospital, to pass over the ludicrous inconsistency of giving to physicians that right of lecturing on surgery which is denied to the great body of surgeons ; I declare that I think it would be difficult to combine more confusion and nonsense within an equal compass, than are to be found in this short enactment. But we have a more material objection to state, and it is to the catalogue of recognized schools ; Edinburgh, Glasgow , Aberdeen ! We know that anatomy, at least, cannot be advantageously studied at those places. We all well know, and no one can be more willing than I am, to acknowledge the great talents and acquirements of the teachers in those Universities, and to award them the just merit of having accomplished much with slender means ; but we know also that they are very insufficiently supplied with subjects, and that without (his indispensa- ble requisite, no talents in the teacher, no acquirements, no peculiar fitness on his part for the office of instruction, will avail the student of anatomy.* When we thus find * These observations were not made with the slightest feeling of disrespect towards the professors and teachers in the Scotch schools, nor with any disposition to undervalue the means of professional edu- cation afforded by those establishments. That they are incorrect, at least as far as relates to Glasgow', is clearly shewn by two writers, who seem to be well acquainted with that University, and whose statements are published in the Lancet, vol. 9, p. 839—841. They represent that there has been for many years, and is at present, a supply of sub- jects fully adequate to the demands of a most numerous anatomical class; and that these are procured at least as easily and cheaply as in London. Information from other quarters confirms this statement, and makes it clear that Glasgow can furnish every requisite for the14 certificates of attendance received from schools, where we know that the proper kind of instruction cannot be ac- quired by the student, may we not infer that the quality and amount of knowledge possessed by the candidate are prosecution of anatomical studies. The answer to these remarks, published in the same work, p. 870 and 871, is here reprinted, as it explains how the mistake originated. To the Editor of The Lancet. Sir,—I take the earliest opportunity of noticing two letters, under the signatures Veritas and J. T., in The Lancet of this day. My object, in the observations which have called forth the comments and corrections of these writers, was to expose the inconsistency of the College regulation in admitting certificates of anatomical studies from quarters in which the means of learning anatomy practically cannot be procured, and rejecting them when proceeding from private teachers in London, who can afford their pupils an ample supply of the necessary materials. I must observe, that my remarks included Edinburgh, as well as Glasgow and Aberdeen, although it is not so reported. I have often heard students mention the impossibility of procuring subjects for private dissection in Edinburgh, and the difficulty of getting what are necessary even for the illustration of lectures. I had supposed, and the two letters seem to admit, that these difficulties still exist. We know, however, that they have not prevented the successful cultivation of anatomical science. The fame so justly earned in this department by Monro, J. Thomson, J. and C. Bell, Barclay, Gordon, Wardrop, Knox, and others, shows that superior minds, instead of being discouraged by obstacles, are animated to more powerful exertion: they make oppor- tunities for themselves, if they do not find them. Respecting the capa- bilities of Aberdeen, as a school of anatomy, always understanding by that expression a place where anatomy is to be learned by dissection, I am in complete ignorance, and can only observe, that I have known no one who has dissected there. I am well aware that its hospital con- tains such a number and description of surgical cases, as to render it not only a sufficient, but very valuable school of surgery; not more valuable, however, than those of Leeds, Birmingham, Norwich, Exeter, &c. &c. I have great pleasure in finding that my representation was15 deemed less important by the Court of Examiners than the school he attended and the professors who taught him? Let us consider, gentlemen, the qualifications neces- incorrect, so far as Glasgow is concerned, and in learning that that University is not less fortunate in possessing the means of practical anatomical study than in the talents and reputation of its able ana- tomical teachers. I can assure your Correspondents that I do not yield to them in respect for the names of J. and A. Burns, of Jeffray, Patti- son, Mackenzie, and Monteath. Nothing could have been further from my thoughts than the design of elevating the London anatomical schools at the expense of their Northern rivals. The ability and usefulness of a teacher may be well estimated by the zeal and industry of his pupils. Extensive intercourse with professional students from all quarters has taught me, that in the valuable qualities I have just mentioned those from the Scotch schools cannot be surpassed, and in general are not equalled. I find them invariably assiduous, well informed, and anxious to improve every opportunity of gaining information.—Neither does the important fact escape my recollection, that the only school in which the science of anatomy, as distinguished from the trade of teaching it, has been suc- cessfully cultivated in London, was established and has been almost entirely upheld by Scotchmen. It is hardly necessary to particularise that founded by Wm. Hunter, and rendered doubly celebrated by his brother. The fame of this school, to which we owe Hewson, Cruik- shank, Baillie, and Wilson, is still worthily upheld by its present dis- tinguished head. I remain, Sir, Your obedient servant, 18, Whitehall-place, W. Lawrence. March 18, 1826. That the representation in the text is correct, so far as Edinburgh is concerned, is clearly proved by the strong and competent testimony of Mr. Lizars. In the prefaces to the second, fourth, and ninth num- bers of his anatomical plates, he laments the want of subjects in Edin- burgh; he comments indignantly on the public authorities, accusing15 sary to constitute a good lecturer. He must be thoroughly acquainted with the subject he proposes to teach: in the case of anatomy, surgery, or any other department of medicine, he must not only have practical knowledge from personal application and experience, he must not only have studied the great book of nature, but he must understand the general principles, the theoretic or rea- soning part of the science, and he ought to know not only them not merely of failing in their duty to promote this essential branch of public instruction, but of influencing popular alarms and strengthen- ing public prejudice, so as to increase the existing difficulties and obstacles: he mentions the decline of the anatomical classes, and pro- phesies their complete extinction, unless some change should be speedily effected. He states, in conclusion, that “ subjects have now risen to the enormous sum of twenty guineas, a sum sufficient to enable a student to go to Paris, study his profession, and return home,—and have moreover become so scarce, that one lecturer on anatomy, who has been teaching for these four years past, has been obliged to resign; and that able and scientific lecturer. Dr. Barclay, who has now, from the natural course of years, resigned his duties as a teacher, has within these some years back been repeatedly heard to say, that he saw no alternative, except giving up teaching human, and confining himself to comparative anatomy.”—Part ix. p. 10. I believe that equal difficulties do not exist in Aberdeen, having been informed, within a few days, by a gentleman who was recently studying there, that seven subjects had been used for the public lec- tures during the session, and that some private dissection is also carried on, although the opportunities in the latter respect are by no means equal to those afforded by the private teachers in London, whom the College of Surgeons are seeking to destroy. It may be remarked here, as a strange contradiction between the regulations of two public bodies, wrhich must be supposed to have the same end in view, that the Hospital of Aberdeen, which is recognised by the London College, is not so favoured by the Lords of the Admi- ralty. They require an attendance of twelve months on an hospital in London, Dublin, Edinburgh, or Glasgow.17 its present state, but what has been done in former times* and in other countries. This is not all; the power of acquiring knowledge, of converting it when acquired to useful practical purposes does not necessarily imply the capability of imparting it to others. For the latter pur- pose there must be the talent of arranging the collected materials in a clear form, of selecting striking and import tant points, of distinguishing between the essential and accessary parts, of combining the whole into a systematic shape, and of conveying it in the simple and clear lan- guage which may be understood by persons of ordinary capacity. Thus you see that not only are various endow- ments necessary, but a combination of rare qualities, so that a good lecturer must be a very distinguished cha- racter. If this view be correct, what course ought to be taken in order to secure a succession of competent teachers? Ought we not to have the amplest range of choice? Should not our power of selection extend to the whole profession? Is it not a matter of obvious policy to allow to every individual in the profession the opportunity of raising himself to the honourable and lucrative offices, which are now monopolised upon a different principle; and to hold out to talent, industry, and knowledge, those high rewards as the most powerful incentive to their exertion? The course pursued by the College has been just the reverse; they look out not in the profession at large, but among some twenty or thirty individuals, for those who are to execute the duties, requiring for their proper discharge so many and such high qualifications. If one or two persons of distinguished ability should be found in this small number, it is more than we have a right to expect, according to the ordinary average of human endowments. It is true that the hospital surgeons may be considered as a selected body, chosen from a con- c18 sideration of their ability and knowledge: but you all know very well that there are many exceptions to that repre- sentation, so many, that the mere circumstance of hold- ing such an appointment is no proof of fitness for the important duties of teaching. But, gentlemen, the College regulation not only insults and degrades the great body of its members, by deciding that they are incompetent to the task of instruc- tion; it must act prejudicially even on those whom it favours and protects, as well as on the interests of the public, by destroying emulation and competition, the surest source of individual excellence and general benefit. By placing a person in an honourable and lucrative office, and securing him against rivalship, you naturally beget in him an indifference to the proper discharge of his duties; his emoluments are independent of his exertions and merits; he becomes indolent and careless. The Court of Examiners seem to fancy that some necessary connexion exists between hospitals and the teaching anatomy and surgery; they have probably found it, in their individual capacity, a profitable and pleasant connexion; and are therefore inclined to strengthen and continue it for the benefit of their successors. Thus we see them gravely making regulations respecting these establishments, without having the smallest authority over any one of them; and apparently forgetting that the governors of such institutions may at any moment interdict the visits of pupils, and put a stop to all their recognised Schools of Surgery. In extending the privilege of granting certificates a little beyond the surgeons and physicians of hospitals, which they do with a bad grace, they do not lose sight of the old connexion; they concede this right to persons whom they vaguely describe as “ teaching in a school19 t acknowledged by the medical establishment of one of the recognised hospitals.” If they had required that the medical establishment of an hospital should satisfy them- selves, by competent inquiry, of the qualifications of the teacher, there would have been some security for his fit- ness ; but they have only to acknowledge the school, and then any teacher employed in it may have his certificates received. What the acknowledgment is to consist in, how it is to be obtained or signified, under what limita- tions of relative position, contiguity, or distance, it is to operate, are points on which we are left in total darkness. But, gentlemen, individual cases appeal more forcibly to our feelings than general statements: I therefore request your attention to the injustice which Mr. Bennett is now suffering under this new restrictive system. His talents and acquirements are such as to command our respect, while the unmerited disappointments he has met with in his honourable and useful efforts to establish himself as an anatomical teacher, in Paris and in London, give him a claim to our warm sympathy and best wishes. To the great accommodation of numerous English students, who resort to Paris, either from motives of economy or the desire to profit by the valuable opportunities of informa- tion which that city affords, Mr. Bennett had formed there an anatomical class, which was already considerable and rapidly increasing, when it was broken up through the jealousy of the Court of Examiners. In a spirit more worthy of a commercial corporation than of a scientific body, they sacrificed Mr. Bennett, who had found it necessary to solicit some protection from the British Ambassador, to the supposed interests of the London Anatomical Schools. On returning to England, he en- countered the new regulations of the Court of Examiners, which prevented him from employing, in London, his c 220 abilities and the knowledge acquired by long study and practice, in teaching anatomy.* Another recent case will shew you that the ambiguity of this unintelligible process may be found very oppres- sive. Mr. Kiernan is a gentleman, who has devoted him- self for some years, with great zeal and success, to the study of anatomy and surgery, both in this country and in the most celebrated schools of France and Italy, with the express purpose of becoming a teacher, for which employment he has shewn himself admirably qualified. He was informed at the Coliege, that his certificates would not be received. He procured a strong testi- monial of his qualifications, grounded on personal know- ledge, from three of the surgeons of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, where he had studied for a long time. Of the other three surgeons, two refused to sign this document, because his intended establishment in the neighbourhood of the hospital would be disadvantageous to their interests as teachers; and the third was not sufficiently acquainted with Mr. K. to concur in a representation resting on per- sonal knowledge. A second application, thus supported, met with the same peremptory refusal as the first. In order to appreciate this decision, let us compare the chances of information from an hospital surgeon with those which can be afforded by a person, who, like Mr. Kiernan, exclusively devotes himself to teaching ana- tomy. This occupation is not so simple and easy as some persons may suppose: it requires, at least, much time and patience, especially if the students, whose instruc- tion is undertaken, and whose money is received with that understanding, are numerous. Hence it appears * Mr. Bennett’s statement of his own case will be found in file Appendix, No. III.21 to me, that persons sincerely desirous of improving the means of anatomical instruction, and having no other motive in view, would never have proposed to limit the right of teaching it to Hospital Surgeons. The duties which devolve on these gentlemen, if rightly performed towards the patients and the students, require the devo- tion of a great portion of their time. Again, it generally happens, as might reasonably be expected, that hospital surgeons enjoy extensive private practice. Hence the surgeon of a large hospital is by no means the individual best fitted for teaching anatomy : without considering ability or the power of imparting knowledge, his other important duties do not leave him the command of time necessary for the purpose. As an instructive commen- tary on the policy of this very regulation, I may observe, that they who have been most distinguished among us for anatomical knowledge, and on whom the character of the country, in respect to this science, must depend, have all belonged to a school, which would have been abso- lutely proscribed by its provisions; which, in short, could never have existed, had this enactment been in force. William Hunter, the greatest character whom England has produced in human anatomy, and inferior to no man in any country for the variety and extent of his contribu- tions to anatomical and physiological science, and for that combination of genius and acquired knowledge, which have caused his name to be venerated wherever these sciences are held in respect, could not, under the present laws of the College, have founded the school which has immortalized his own name, and reflected so much credit on his country. His pupil and associate, Mr. Hewson, who has shewn, in his valuable contributions to anatomical science, and particularly in his discovery of the absorbing vessels in birds, that he had imbibed the spirit of his great22 teacher, would have been equally disqualified. So would Mr. Cruiksbank, the author of the admirable history of the absorbents; so would that indefatigable and accom- plished anatomist, the late Mr. Wilson ; so would the present able professor of anatomy and surgery to our College, Mr. Bell, up to the time of his being appointed surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. If I were to place in contrast with those who would have been thus pro- scribed, a list of the individuals who would have been favoured and honoured, the absurdity of the regulation would be rendered so apparent as to excite your contempt and derision, unless the injury to science and to the cha- racter of our country should rouse the stronger feeling of indignation. Let me observe further, that the practice which has hitherto prevailed, of confining the teaching of anatomy to hospital surgeons, and which the hospital surgeons, who compose the Court of Examiners, are now endeavour- ing to establish exclusively and enforce rigidly, must have been the principal cause of the low state to which ana- tomical science has fallen in the country of the Hunters, of Hewson, and of Cruikshank. The urgent and impera- tive duties of the hospital surgeon do not leave him the time required for adequately cultivating and properly teaching anatomy ; he therefore restricts his instructions to the points of principal consequence in relation to sur- gery, and too often excuses his neglect of the rest by representing them as unimportant, thus sanctioning in his pupils a habit of superficial and imperfect study. All the parts of anatomy are so intimately connected, that it par- ticularly requires to be studied as a whole; no one organ or system of organs can be thoroughly understood, with- out a general insight into the frame. Hence, when many parts are slurred over or neglected, because they are un- /23 important to surgeons, because no operations are per- formed on them, because medical practitioners can dis- pense with an intimate knowledge of them, we cannot be surprised if the mutilated remains of the science should excite only a feeble interest, and all enthusiastic feeling should be extinguished both in teacher and learner. Hence the disgraceful contrast between our own country and the continent, in the recent and present state of ana- tomy. While the science has been extended, and its literature enriched abroad by the Mascagnis, the Cal- danis, and the Scarpas, by the Soemmerrings, Walthers, Prochaskas, Reils, Tiedemanns, and Meckels, by the Bichats, B6clards, and Cloquets, we can hardly mention a single Englishman whose name is known as an ana- tomist beyond the shores of the island : we have not only no new contributions to the science, but not even a single original standard work worthy of the present state of knowledge; so that for any thing beyond guides to the dissecting room, English students must resort to the anatomical literature of France, Germany, and Italy. If the monopoly of anatomical teaching, which the College are now attempting to establish, in favour of the hospital surgeons, should be enforced and rendered permanent, it will be calculated to perpetuate this disgraceful state of things, and, if possible, to sink the science in this country to a still lower state. Gentlemen, you will not have failed to observe that the rule, which requires attendance on an hospital in London, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, or Aberdeen, tacitly excludes the certificates of all the provincial hospitals in England, and of all similar establishments in all other parts of the world. This proscription conveys a most injurious reflection on the surgeons of our county hospitals: having the pleasure of being acquainted with24 many of them, and being therefore able to speak, from personal knowledge, of their abilities and professional attainments, I have no hesitation in declaring, that a more unmerited exclusion was never pronounced against any set of men. Need I mention Mr. Hey, of Leeds; Mr* Swan, of Lincoln ; Messrs. Attenburrow and Oldknow, of Nottingham; Mr. Hodgson, of Birmingham; Messrs. Smith, Lowe, and Daniel, of Bristol; Mr. Norman, of Bath; Mr. Carden, of Worcester; Messrs. Fletcher and Cother, of Gloucester ; Tuckwell and Wingfield, of Ox- ford ; Okes and Abbott, of Cambridge; Martineau, Dal- rymple, and Cross, of Norwich ; Barnes and James, of Exeter; in order to justify the expression of my perfect conviction that the provincial surgeons of England are as fully competent to the instruction of students, as the favoured body who are attached to the London Hospitals. Gentlemen, the regulation I am now considering inflicts a two-fold injury; it is unjust, not only to the surgeons whom it stigmatizes and degrades, but to the pupils whom it subjects to unnecessary difficulty and expence in ac- quiring a knowledge of their profession ; and it must consequently be detrimental to the public, for whose benefit the College was instituted. The provincial hos- pitals of England, many of which equal in the number of their patients the smaller hospitals of London, afford every opportunity of acquiring that most valuable kind of knowledge which is derived from experience. The practical study of the profession is here conducted with peculiar advantage, from the comparatively small number of students, and the circumstance of their attention not being distracted by that multiplicity of other objects, which are crowded together into the inadequate period allotted to London studies. To many it will be not a slight recommendation of these more tranquil aud deli-25 berate country studies, that they do not involve the separation of the student from bis family and connexions. While the College regulation thus discourages the em- ployment, for the purpose of professional education, of those excellent opportunities which county hospitals afford, and thereby tends to weaken in their surgeons the principles of emulation and competition, which ought to be encouraged and strengthened, it has the further in- jurious effect of crowding with pupils the wards and operating theatres of the London Hospitals, so as to limit and often entirely impede all useful instruction in those establishments. The number of persons, to whom in- struction can be imparted at the bedside of the patient, is circumscribed within narrow limits. However great the ability and knowledge of the surgeon, and his desire to communicate information, however zealous and atten- tive the students, the examination and explanation of a case, and its principles of treatment, can be made useful only to the small number who are able to see the patient and hear the surgeon. The attendance on a London Hospital, which the College obliges you to pay for before you can be admitted to examination, must therefore in many cases be little more than nominal; and, generally speaking, deserves much less reliance, as proving the possession of appropriate practical knowledge, that the employment of an equal portion of time in a county hospital. I have already adverted to the subject of the Museum. When this invaluable collection, bought with the public money, and deposited in a building partly erected at the public expence, was placed at the disposal of the College of Surgeons, the expectation would naturally be enter- tained, that it should be rendered as serviceable as pos- sible in aiding the advancement of science and the dif-26 fusion of useful knowledge. This reasonable hope has not been realized. Even the members of the College have only a very limited access to it. During eight months of the year, it is closed; and for the remaining four months it is open to the general body of the pro- fession only twice a week, and for four hours on each of the days. Could you believe, Gentlemen, that the Court of the College have refused permission to have drawings taken of the specimens, and that to a public teacher of the highest scientific character, who gives one of the most important courses of lectures delivered in this island, and sufficiently evinces his zeal in the cause of science, by keeping regularly in his pay a draftsman, whom he sent from Scotland to London for this very pur- pose? Surely the Court must have forgotten, that they hold the collection only as trustees for the public; that it is not their own private property; and that unless it be available for such purposes, it possesses no utility what- ever. In order to employ the Museum advantageously, the general body of members should have daily access to it, at reasonable hours: they should have liberty to examine the preparations, and make drawings of them. The collection should be thrown open to all members of the medical profession who come from other countries. In short, to scientific persons, whether natives or foreigners, should be allowed the freest access, and the most en- larged use, of the Museum, subject to those regula- tions only, which its safety requires. In other countries too the public at large are allowed to visit occasionally such collections, which are thus rendered useful, not only for the more enlarged purpose of advancing science, but also as a means of exciting a taste for natural know- ledge, and awakening and gratifying rational curiosity on subjects most important and interesting to every indi-27 vidual. However, Gentlemen, mere access to the Mu- seum would be comparatively unavailing*: such a multi- farious collection of objects cannot be usefully consulted without the aid of a descriptive catalogue, the drawing up and completion of which should have been the first care of the College, on receiving this magnificent present. Although for this delay circumstances of excuse or pal- liation may exist, they have not yet been stated, and the public may therefore justly complain, that twenty years should have been allowed to elapse from the transference of the collection to Lincoln’s Inn Fields, without any sen- sible progress having been made in a matter of such urgent and primary importance. The members are in a still worse situation with re- spect to the library. After officially announcing its es- tablishment, many years ago, and inviting donations, the College seem to have allowed the design to sleep; at least, we know nothing'of what has been hitherto accomplished, except that some books have been brought together, that this collection, like the Museum, is without a catalogue, and altogether inaccessible. I am sure, Gentlemen, you will agree with me in thinking, that our College ought to have a library for the use of its members, with every facility of access and consultation ; that this library should embrace every thing relating to anatomy, physi- ology, medicine, surgery, and all the auxiliary sciences; and that all new works and periodical publications, fo- reign and domestic, should be taken in; so that the past accumulations, and present progress of the science, in all parts of the world, may here be seen without trouble. There is every reason to suppose that the College funds are fully adequate to this, as well as the other purposes of the institution ; and the utility of supplying those means of information, which involve an expence beyond28 the means of most individuals, is too obvious to need further illustration. Such, Gentlemen, are the principal points in the re- gulations of the College, and the management of their affairs, to which I have considered it necessary to advert, as introductory to the proceedings of this evening. I may observe, in conclusion, that the members with whom I have had an opportunity of conversing, have been unani- mous on the subject; I have met with an universal and strong feeling of disapprobation towards the conduct of the College. If I make an exception, it is but an indi- vidual one: I have really found only one person to de- fend the course pursued by the Court of Examiners. The sentiment of disapprobation is so strong and univer- sal, that I wonder and very much regret that some of those, who I know, largely participate in it, have not appeared among us on this occasion. I am sure that there is only one opinion in the profession as to the nature and extent of the grievances which we complain of, while many different views may be entertained respect- ing the mode of obtaining redress. I could have wished that we should have all met, not doubting that amicable discussion and mutual concessions, would have ultimately produced unanimity as to the particular measures of relief. It seems that some are fastidious in the selection, not only of those with whom they associate, but even of the persons with whom they could publicly meet to de- liberate and concert measures of a public character. I understand that some members of our College, who re- strict themselves to a certain department of practice, are unwilling to co-operate on this public occasion, with those of their brother members, whose practice is not so confined. There are indeed some distinctions in practice, shades of difference in the profession, nice, and almostevanescent points of discrimination, which some may be solicitous to mark out more strongly, and carefully main- tain. I cannot approve of the dislikes and objections of such persons, nor concur in any degree in the propriety of the views which gave birth to them. It seems to me that we are all on the same footing as members of the College : neither the charters nor the acts of Parliament recognize any distinctions between us; so that if any are made, they originate from ourselves. I think that all the honours and rewards which the profession can confer, should be open to all the members alike, without respect of persons or classes,and that the only distinctions which ought to be recognized, are those which talents and in- dustry may be capable of achieving for themselves. But if, Gentlemen, any of you should w ish to have the honour of a personal interview with those to whom 1 have al- luded, I think I could shew you how to accomplish that purpose. If you suggested an appointment, with the view of obtaining their superior professional judgments, I pledge myself to you, that, whatever dislikes might be indulged or expressed on other occasions, you would be sure, not merely of a polite, but a most cordial reception. Not a wh isper would be heard of any indisposition to co- operate with you on such an occasion ; if I am not mis- taken, the right hand of fellowship would be extended towards you ; every wish would be shewn to cement so pleasing a connexion, and you would meet with the amplest encouragement to repeat the agreeable visit. 1 believe that some have objected to join us, from the notion that this meeting is connected with other proceedings, and that our acts will accordingly be asso- ciated with w'hat other persons may have said or done on other occasions. I declare to you, Gentlemen, so far as I am concerned, or as I know% this is quite an inde-30 pendent measure, and this meeting must be judged of solely by its own acts. And how can any suspicion of mystery or plotting arise from our thus openly assembling to discuss matters, which have for a long time been the subject of loud and indignant comment throughout the profession ? Nothing seems to be more natural, than when numerous persons are aggrieved, that they should assemble together, deliberate on their complaints, and endeavour to find a remedy. I repeat, Gentlemen, that there is nothing concealed; that the present meeting is not connected with the previous acts of any other per- sons; that there is no one behind the curtain ; and that we are responsible for nothing but what takes place in this open assembly. Some may have objected to a public meeting from an undefined apprehension of intemperate language, dis- orderly and violent conduct. Such fears are degrading to our profession. I trust, and cannot doubt, that the tone and temper of our discussions, and the tenour of the resolutions to which they may lead, will triumphantly refute such injurious anticipations. If I could entertain the slightest apprehension of a contrary kind, I should remind you, that nothing can be more calculated to render your proceedings nugatory than violence and disorder I should point out to you what is required by your own characters as gentlemen, and by the serious nature of your duties, as members of a liberal and scien- tific professionI should entreat you to consider that the men, whose acts you are assembled to arraign, com- pose the constituted government of the profession to which we belong; that in some of them we recognize those venerable teachers, to whose instructions we owe the foundation of our own knowledge—whose characters contribute to uphold the scientific fame of our country,31 and whose names add dignity and respect to the institu- tion, of which we are members :—I would beseech you, in conclusion, to bear in mind, that the eyes of the pro- fession and of the public are fixed on the proceedings of this evening; and that, if they are not conducted so as to secure general approbation, they will not only fail in the effect of diminishing or removing our grievances, but will give them additional force and duration. /SPEECH DELIVERED THE 4th OF MARCH. Gentlemen, It is the object of the present meeting* to re- sume and complete the business which we left unfinished on this day fortnight. On that day you adopted unani- mously resolutions* expressing your sense of the griev- ances you have to complain of, as members of the Royal College of Surgeons; you determined, by a great ma- jority, that a petition to Parliament for its assistance would be the best mode of removing these grievances at present, and the only effectual means of preventing their recurrence; and you appointed a committee to draw up such a petition. It is our present business to receive the report of that committee, to hear the petition they pro- pose for our acceptance, and to consider of the further measures necessary for vigorously prosecuting our ap- peal to the Legislature. Before we proceed to the consideration of these mat- ters, I shall request your attention to some points, which were ekher overlooked or not sufficiently elucidated at our last meeting. I have received communications from the surgeons of some provincial hospitals. The details which they supply respecting the opportunities of in- struction afforded at those institutions, and the course of * The resolutions then agreed to are printed in the Appendix, No. I.33 study pursued by the pupils, not only shew that there is not the smallest excuse for the course adopted by the College, but place in a strong light the injustice of such an exclusion to the surgeons of these hospitals, implying, as it obviously does, that they are unable to impart in- struction ; its injustice to country students, whom it dis- courages from employing valuable means of information ; and the injury it is consequently calculated to inflict on the profession and on the public. The Court of Ex. aminers have imparted to us, in these regulations, their notion of what renders an hospital worthy of confidence as a source of surgical information ; it must “ contain on an average one hundred patientswhether medical or surgical, or, if mixed, in what proportions, they have omitted to particularize. The hospitals of Leeds, Man- chester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Bristol, Exeter, contain between one and two hundred patients; and I believe that very few, if any, of our county hospitals, fall short of the number required by the College rule. These es- tablishments receive accidents, cases for operation, and surgical diseases of all kinds, and thiis present ample opportunities of studying all parts of surgery. In these great fields of experience, some of the distinguished ornaments of our profession have gained that practical knowledge, which has laid the foundation of their fame, and has enabled them to enlarge the boundaries of our science. In many instances anatomical instructions are given to the students, and these, in some cases, are gratuitous; clearly proving,that the surgeons are neither incapable of affording instruction, nor less disinterestedly zealous than their London brethren, in furthering the education of their pupils. The ordinary term of study is three, four, or five years; generally the latter; and the pupils are all dressers. Without wishing to disparage D84 the opportunities afforded in this city, can you hesi- tate for a moment in deciding between twelve months’ attendance as a walking pupil in a London hospital, and three years, to say nothing of four or five, spent in that close and constant attention, which the duties of a dresser require at a county infirmary ? Do you understand how the promotion of “ sound chirurgical knowledge” can require that the latter should be so com- pletely despised by the College, as not even to be taken into the account by them? Does not common sense rather point out the disproportionate importance thus attached to the walking a London hospital, as a “ prac- tice having' a contrary tendency to sound knowledge?” After tacitly rejecting the certificates of attendance on all the provincial hospitals of England, the Examiners are only consistent in subjecting to a corresponding exclusion all the knowledge gained in foreign countries. If the surgical information collected in Bath, Bristol, Oxford, Cambridge, Gloucester, or Worcester, is of no avail in procuring for its possessor the great distinction conferred by the College diploma, that which is gained beyond seas will naturally be treated with the same contemp- tuous disregard. Could the framers of these regulations be ignorant of the admirable opportunities for studying all branches of the medical profession that exist in so many foreign schools? or, have they proceeded merely on financial considerations? Could they have wished to exclude foreign science and improvements, like silks and cambric, for fear of injuring domestic industry ? It has often been the policy of governments to give their subjects the means of visiting other countries for obser- vation and improvement; and the institution of the Ratcliff travelling fellowships shews that the same principle has been acted upon in our own profession. You must be aware, Gentlemen, that the great hos-35 pitals of Paris, Berlin, and Vienna, afford opportunities for studying- surgery, that cannot be surpassed, and that numerous smaller establishments, in various parts of France, Italy, and Germany, furnish similar means. You know that these institutions, supported at the public ex- pense, are most liberally opened to all students; no fees are required, but foreigners as well as natives have the freest access. You must also be aware, that the medical schools of these countries, in which every branch of medical science is taught, are equally accessible to all who may choose to avail themselves of the advantages they offer. Among' the latter are included facilities for studying anatomy, both natural and morbid, which can- not be procured in England. Can we not understand that many of our countrymen may be induced to prose- cute their studies in foreign schools and hospitals, from considerations of health or economy, from circumstances of convenience, or family arrangements ? and, shall we consider it consistent with the liberality which ought to regulate the conduct of a scientific body, like the Col- lege of Surgeons, to refuse examining such individuals, not because they are ill qualified, not because their edu- cation is incomplete, but because they have gained their knowledge out of the kingdom! I have known many zealous and successful students of surgery, who, after completing their English studies, have visited the cele- brated schools of the continent, for the purpose of ex- tending their knowledge by the observation and com- parison of other modes and doctrines. They have unani- mously represented that the opportunities of acquiring information were great, beyond their expectation, and the facility of access perfect. Not one has expressed himself as disappointed. This tacit exclusion of foreign knowledge has not d 236 remained inoperative ; I can mention to you a recent in- stance of its having been acted on, and I shall leave you to judge how far this case is creditable to our profession and our country. Professor Pattison of Baltimore, the friend and fellow-labourer of Mr. Allan Burns of Glas- gow, whom he succeeded as a teacher of anatomy, ac- quired by his talents, industry, and ardent pursuit of knowledge, that professional reputation, which recom- mended him to his present public situation in the United States. He undertook the education of a nephew, who repaired to America to avail himself of the great oppor- tunities which his uncle could afford. This nephew, having spent five years in the diligent study of all branches of medical science, having undergone a strict examination, and having been admitted to the degree of Doctor in Medicine and Surgery, returned to England, and wished to become a member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. This natural-born English subject was not admitted to an examination;—not because his ana- tomical and surgical studies had been insufficient,for they very far exceeded what the College regulation requires;— not because any suspicion could attach either to the quan- tity or quality of his professional information; for he had undergone in America a much stricter and more compre- hensive examination than that of our College ;—but be- cause he had not bought his knowledge at one of the Lon- don shops.* In requiring that candidates for the diploma should attend an hospital containing one hundred patients, the * Should any of the Examiners, who concurred in the refusal to examine the nephew of Professor Pattison, deign to honour these pages with their perusal, their attention is requested to the account of medical education, as it is carried on in the University of Maryland, given in the Appendix, No. XII.; and more particularly to the part printed in italics.37 Colleo-e have introduced a curious criterion. You wih probably think it more important to know the descrip- tion of cases, and the degree of knowledge and skill dis- played in treating them. The name of Scarpa must be familiar to the framers of this rule: he has rendered some * service to our science, although he never enjoyed the grand advantage of attending winter lectures on ana- tomy and surgery, by a London hospital Surgeon. The admirable works which he has published on anatomy and surgery, have made him known wherever those sciences are cultivated, and will carry his name down to posterity with every accompaniment of respect and honour. In his combined capacity of anatomist and surgeon he has not been surpassed; and he certainly ranks higher than any living cultivator of those sciences. The hospital, which has enabled him to render these important services to our science, contains, I believe, about twenty beds. Richter, the cotemporary of Haller, in the University of Goettingen, celebrated throughout Europe for his judgment and practical skill, as well as for the clearness and good sense of his writings, had an hospital of fifteen beds.* The same institution, now * “ There are only fifteen beds in the public hospital of this place (Goettingen), and I do not wish for more. I have permission, and the opportunity to choose my patients, and of course I make choice of such cases as promise to be more particularly important and instructive. Indeed, I do not think that the experienced practitioner is formed by the number of patients. Experience is the result, not of seeing merely, but of reflecting. It is not eating alone, but digestion, that gives strength. A physician who tells us that he visits an hundred and fifty, and even a greater number of sick people daily, has, in my opinion, so little pretensions to the title of an experienced practitioner, that I would even deny he had any experience at all. Truly, nature is not so complaisant, that she will unveil herself at once to whoever will merely cast his eyes upon her.”—Richter's Med. and Surg. Obser- vations, translated from the German ; preface, p. xv.38 under the care of Professor Langenbeck, an accomplished anatomist and very dexterous operator, does not contain more than twenty-five beds. The medical clinic in the general hospital at Vienna, consisted of two wards, each containing twelve beds;* and that of the illustrious J. P. Frank at Pavia did not contain more than twenty. The surgical clinic at Vienna consists of fourteen beds, eight for males, and six for females ; f and that for dis- eases of the eye, of twenty-four. } Thus, Gentlemen, the great men, whom I have cited—and the annals of our profession contain no names more deservedly venerated than those of Richter, Scarpa, Von Hildenbrand, Frank, and Beer—instead of estimating1 the advantage of the student in a direct ratio to the number of patients sub- mitted to his observation, have considered it most con- ducive to his instruction to limit his attention to a few cases, making each of these a study, carefully investi- gating the history, symptoms, and causes, shewing the nature and seat of the affection, and the changes pro- duced in the suffering organs, pointing out the dis- tinctions and the probable course and termination of the * “ There can be nothing,” says the very intelligent observer, to whom we are indebted for a description of the Vienna medical school, “ we think, more certain, than that to be really useful, a clinic must consist of a small number of patients. In a clinic, the patients are not to be merely seen, but to be observed; not to be observed by a man of experience merely, but their symptoms and treatment to be made the subjects of investigation by those, who are yet unaccustomed to the practice of medicine. The clinical visit ought not to surpass the space of an hour. Now, in that space of time, it is impossible to visit more than twenty-four patients. Frank had rarely above eighteen in his clinic at Pavia.”-— Quarterly Journal of Foreign Medicine and Surgery, vol. i. p. 48. t Ibid. p. 171. t Ibid. p. 176.39 disorder, and then explaining the principles of treatment whether by diet, medicine, or general management. Reverting to the restrictions recently imposed by the College on the teaching anatomy and surgery, I have been asked what I would propose to substitute for them; what plan I would adopt for ascertaining the fitness of those who profess to teach these sciences ; how we ought to proceed to prevent improper persons from engaging in this important employment. Really, Gentlemen, I am not very fond of restrictions; and, as we went on well without any till the year 1824, I can see no reason why we should not proceed in the same way. Restric- tion and exclusion are in themselves great evils, espe- cially when, as in the present case, they operate on a large body, including many individuals of talent, indus- try, and cultivated minds;—men whom the prospect of distinction might encourage to exertions alike honour- able to themselves, and useful to the community. The exclusion indeed does not directly injure many, but it degrades all. It ought not, therefore, to be adopted on any vague grounds and fanciful notions;—it can only be justified as a means of accomplishing some great and unequivocal public benefit. The College char- ter rightly sets forth that “ it is of great consequence to the common weal of this kingdom, that the art and science of surgery should be duly promotedlet the Court of Examiners then shew us how their new restric- tive system tends to advance this object. I can point out, however, two existing restrictions, which, in my opinion, are quite effectual, and which may spare the Court of Examiners the unpleasant task of stigmatizing any description of their fellow-members as incapable of teaching their own profession. Ignorant and improper persons will be prevented from teaching anatomy and/ 40 surgery by this circumstance, that pupils will not attend them. Men who are seeking to acquire that information, which is necessary to qualify them for exercising their profession, and who must pay for it, are very capable of finding out who are best able to teach, and generally exercise a sound judgment on that point. I would rather take the opinion of ten pupils on the fitness of a teacher for his duties, than that of the ten examiners. The latter, indeed, are not able to decide such a point; they cannot go to the several schools and hear the lec- turers; they could only judge from general reputation; and they are not unlikely to receive a wrong bias from community of interests, personal friendships or dislikes, and other causes of erroneous judgment, to which stu- dents are not exposed. But, Gentlemen, the Court of Examiners themselves possess an indirect though quite sufficient controul, in that examination of candidates, which is the most impor- tant of their duties. The public expect that they shall carefully inquire into the degree of knowledge possessed by those who offer themselves for examination. It is their great and imperative duty to apply sufficient tests to the specimens of surgical knowledge submitted to their investigation, to ascertain whether they are of standard value, and not to set upon them the stamp of collegiate approbation, until this point is clearly ascertained. If the mental scrutiny performed by the Examiners cannot be relied on as a criterion of knowledge, the College diploma affords no guide to the public, and the time spent in examinations might be spared. I beg to observe, Gentlemen, on this part of the sub- ject, that the College have been singularly unfortunate in their choice of a time for promulgating their new code of restriction and monopoly. Instead of acting, as would41 ha^e befitted the character of a scientific body, in con- formity with the spirit of the age, they have busied them- selves in framing new restraints for a liberal profession just when the present enlightened government are daily evincing their anxiety to give the freest scope to the talent, industry, and enterprise of the country;—at a period when every effort is made to remove the trammels that have so long impeded the progress of internal trade and foreign commerce, and to set free manufactures, the mechanic arts, and even handicraft. Inquiring into the mode of examination pursued by the College, we naturally come to the important subject of education; respecting which I shall only observe, that on its right direction depends, not only the advancement of surgical science, but the utility of the profession, and the respectability of its members. In laying down the course of study which is required of those who present themselves for examination, the Court of Examiners have given us their notion of surgical education. A document emanating from such an authority, and designed as a guide to the profession, claims our close attention. I shall take the liberty of reading to you the College re- gulations on this subject, and then of making a few remarks on them. “ Candidates for the diploma will be required to pro- duce, prior to examination, certificates— “ 1st. Of having been engaged six years, at least, in the acquisition of professional knowledge : “ 2ndl}\ Of being twenty-two years of age;—And, according to the above resolutions (referring to some previous resolutions); “ 3rdly. Of having regularly attended three winter courses, at least, of anatomical lectures; and also, one or more winter courses of chirurgical lectures.42 11 4thly. Of having performed dissections during two or more winter courses. “ 5thly. And of having diligently attended, during the term of at least one year, the chirurgical practice of an hospital.” Here, Gentlemen, is the bill of fare presented to us by the College: here we have a description of the branches of knowledge, which they deem requisite to qualify a person for practising the art of surgery. We know that the six years, which they require to be devoted to the acquisition of professional knowledge, are chiefly spent in the state of apprenticeship, and consequently that the greater portion of that long period will be occupied in compounding medicines. Dismissing, then, from our consideration, this general statement about six years, let us consider the particular studies prescribed in the rest of the regulation, and see what time these studies will occupy.—Three winter courses of anatomical lectures; one or more winter courses of chirurgical lectures; [is not the or more an unmeaning expletive?] two winter courses of dissections; and twelve months’ attendance on the chirurgical practice of an hospital. This is indeed a most scanty list of studies: instead of compre- hending the various branches of knowledge necessary to constitute an accomplished surgeon, we should rather have deemed it an attempt to shew the smallest amount of scientific acquirement, with which it might be possible to carry on the trade of surgery. Can you conceive, Gentlemen, that the minds capable of drawing up that list, and of exhibiting it to the public as a fit guide for surgical students, are qualified to direct the important business of education, and worthy of presiding over the profession of surgery? Although the Examiners have shewn themselves so particular in determining the season43 at which, and the persons by whom knowledge shall be communicated, they are not unreasonable either in the number of studies or the time required to complete them. All that the foregoing resolution requires, can be accom- plished in rather less than sixteen months; that is the time necessary for three winter courses of anatomical lectures; the two winter courses of dissections occupy only seven months. Undoubtedly it is of the greatest consequence;— it is absolutely necessary that the surgeon should be thoroughly conversant with the structure of the human body; but why require that he should attend three courses of lectures on anatomy ? You know, Gentlemen, that anatomical knowledge cannot be gained from lec- tures; you must know', that all your information on this subject has been acquired, not in the lecture room, but in the dissecting room. To learn the structure of the human frame, is an affair of the hands and the eyes, not of the ears. An anatomical lecturer sometimes has an audience of two or three hundred students, or even more. To how many of these can he actually shew the parts on which he is lecturing? Perhaps to twenty, and to them only in a very imperfect manner. The repeated and deliberate examination, in various points of view, neces- sary to the comprehension of an intricate structure, the questions and answers arising out of imperfect under- standing, are quite incompatible with the plan of lec- turing. What should you think of teaching carpentry or watchmaking by lectures? It has indeed been, and it still is a prevalent notion, that anatomy is to be taught by lecturing; but I beg to state to you, that, in my opinion, it would be most favourable to the diffusion of anatomical knowledge, to abandon that course altogether. I think it, indeed, a delusion on the public, to attempt44 • teaching anatomy by lectures; and the error is very serious, as it leads to a neglect of dissection. In re- quiring three courses of lectures, and two of dissections, the College are not only contributing to the maintenance of a pernicious mistake, but quite inverting the natural order in point of importance. One course of surgical lectures, and twelve months’ attendance on the practice of an hospital, must be considered a very moderate allow- ance; even although the lectures should possess the im- portant quality of being delivered in winter, and the hospital should have the advantage of being situated in one of the “ recognized schools.” Thus, Gentlemen, anatomy and surgery compose the short catalogue of col- lege studies; certificates of having spent sixteen months in attending anatomical and surgical lectures, performing dissections, and attending an hospital, are the easy con- ditions of admission to an examination. If the qualifica- tions of the candidate be confined to the slender stock of knowledge which such a course of study can bestow, the Court would act very unfairly in subjecting him to a severe examination. But a much longer time, and ampler range of studies, are necessary to give to surgeons that kind and amount of knowledge, which the state of sci- ence, the interests of the community, and the respect- ability of the profession demand. Have you ever heard, Gentlemen, of physiology? It is not mentioned in the College list of studies; an omission the more remarkable, as having been made in the very precincts of the magni- ficent temple, consecrated by the genius of Hunter, to physiological science. Have you ever heard of patho- logy? of the changes produced by disease in the various structures and organs of our bodies, of the alterations in the living actions,of the causes that produce such changes, of the agents and circumstances capable of arresting them45 and of restoring or preserving health ; that is, of morbid anatomy, of theoretical and practical medicine, of thera- peutics, of materia medica and pharmacy? These are altogether omitted. Two other serious omissions may be noticed. It is sufficient simply to mention midwifery and the connected subject diseases of women and chil- dren. No branch of medical practice is more important; on none is it of more consequence to the public, that the qualifications of the practitioner should be ascertained by previous inquiry. Diseases of the eye form a part of surgery; and may, perhaps, be considered as included under the general term. But the structure of the organ is so peculiar and complicated, its affections are so nume- rous, their nature and treatment have been so much elu- cidated and improved of late years, the value of the sense is so great, and the practical consequences of ignorance and improper treatment are so destructive of human happiness, that a regard for the public welfare and for the character of the profession absolutely require that this branch of surgery should be expressly named, and its study enforced.* In short, the list sent forth * A few facts will be sufficient to support the correctness of the above representation. In the 2nd battalion of the 52nd regiment, con- sisting of somewhat more than 700 men, 636 cases of ophthalmia, in- cluding relapses, occurred from August, ISO5, when the disease com- menced, to the same month in 1806: of these, 50 were dismissed with loss of both eyes, and 40 with that of one.—Dr. Vetch, Account of the Ophthalmia, &c. 1807, p. 69. The Ophthalmia Depot, under the care of this gentleman, contained, in 1808, more than 900 cases.—Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, p. 184. From the station of Sicily alone, more than 130 cases of total blindness were sent home within a short period.—Ibid. p. 183. In 1810 there were 2317 soldiers blind from ophthalmia on the pension list, not including those who had lost only one eye.—Mr. Macgregor, in Transactions of a Society for pro- moting■ Medical and Surgical Knowledge, v. 3, p. 50. Between 2046 under the authority of the Court of Examiners, which ought therefore to be a safe guide for the student, does not contain some of the most important parts of surgical education. As a member of the Royal College of Sur- geons, and as an English Surgeon, I disclaim this nar- row scheme of study, as unworthy of the present state of science, injurious to the surgical profession, and calcu- lated to disgrace us in the estimation of foreigners. The College examinations are quite in harmony with the course of study; they are confined to descriptive anatomy, and embrace little more than the mere mecha- nical parts of surgery. Among the subjects, to which they do not extend, may be mentioned general anatomy, physiology, morbid anatomy, general pathology, thera- peutics, and materia medica, midwifery, and diseases of the eye.* * Their inadequacy is indeed so glaring, that and 30 cases of blindness, or loss of one eye, or of seriously impaired vision, occurred in a school in Yorkshire. The same affection broke out in a French slave ship, affecting the entire cargo and crew, with the exception of one man. This individual alone was capable, when the vessel arrived in the West Indies, of steering her into Guadaloupe. There is reason to suppose that a Spanish ship was lost at sea from the same cause. Had these facts, which appear in papers laid before Par- liament, and are copied from them in the Edinburgh Review, v. 36, ajrt. 2, been duly noticed by the Lords of the Admiralty, they would probably have been led, in their recent regulation (Appendix, No. VI.), to require actual study of diseases of the eye, instead of merely alluding to it incidentally, as a ground of preference. * A comparative view of the arrangements adopted in other quar- ters will place in a still stronger light the deficiencies imputed to the College regulations, respecting surgical education and examinations. Accounts are therefore subjoined in the Appendix, No. V.—XII. of the regulations issued by the Society of Apothecaries, by the Army Medical Board, and the Board of Admiralty; and of the system of education and examination at Edinburgh, Paris, Leipzig, Berlin, Vienna, and Balti- more ; and a tabular view of the whole is subjoined, for the sake of comparative reference, No. XIII.47 the boards presiding over the medical departments of the army and navy have long been aware that they could not trust to them: accordingly, the candidates for employ- ment, as military and naval surgeons, are expressly exa- mined by the members of these boards.* So far as education is concerned, I take the liberty of remarking, that the artificial distinctions in the pro- fession, so much insisted on and valued by some, ought to be entirely disregarded; and of asserting, in the broadest way, the unity of the medical profession as an object of study. The several component parts of our frame are so closely connected, their relations and mutual influences, in health and disease, are so numerous and powerful, the causes of disease and the modes of reme- dying it are of so general a nature, that no part can be understood without a knowledge of the whole. No par- ticular class of affections can be comprehended or pro- perly treated, except by the aid of principles derived from the whole range of medicine: the diseases and treat- ment of each part, on the one hand, are governed by these principles; and, on the other, they reciprocally furnish data capable of illustrating general pathology. There- fore, whether the student means to be a physician, or a surgeon, and, a fortiori, if he be intended for a general practitioner, he must learn anatomy, physiology, general pathology, therapeutics, materia medica, chemistry, and pharmacy; and inasmuch as he is unacquainted with any of these, he is so far unfit to practise his profession. There may possibly, Gentlemen, be physicians who boast of being ignorant of surgery, and there may be surgeons entertaining such perverted views as to make a point of knowing nothing of medicine: they will probably find * See Appendix, No. VI.48 that the public do not set so high a value on this kind of learned ignorance as themselves. It is not our province, Gentlemen, to consider the education of physicians; let us allow them to be the best judges of their own affairs. If they determine that a knowledge of surgery is not only useless but even injurious to them, be it so. You will, I am sure, agree with me that a surgeon ought to under- stand medicine thoroughly; and that, in proportion as his knowledge of the whole science is more extensive and accurate, will he be better prepared for the particular duties of his own department. The denomination of pure surgeon, which some so highly value, has become rather a term of ridicule and contempt. It implies, not a higher, but a lower degree of knowledge and utility. Pure! free from what? From all knowledge of medi- cine! If we wish to deserve and retain public respect, let us reject the imputation of such purity. After receiving a general medical education, different persons may be led by taste, convenience, or various other considerations, to select one part of the profession rather than another; this is a matter of subsequent choice, and ought not to regulate scientific education. In large communities it may be advantageous to patients and to the progress of science, that the established distinctions in the profession should be maintained, provided there is no anxiety to draw the line very narrowly. Indeed, the latter attempt, which is in itself absurd, and grounded on no principle of utility, is very little likely to be encou- raged by the public, on whom it could only operate as a limitation of choice; preventing them, on many occasions, from having recourse to that professional assistance, in which they might be disposed to confide. Let us hope then, Gentlemen, that the notions of the College, respecting surgical education, will no longer49 be confined, as they have hitherto been, to anatomy and surgery;—that, if they send forth to the public, with the sanction of their authority, a scheme of professional study, it will embrace those various important branches of medi- cal knowledge which are essentially necessary as qualifi- cations for practising any department of the healing art: —and that, with a view to the great ends for which the College exists, namely, the advancement of surgical sci- ence, the respectability of the surgical profession, and the designation, for the information and protection of the public, of those who may be safely trusted with the care of health, the College Examinations may embrace a greater range of subjects, and occupy a longer time, so as to render them a fit criterion of the qualifications pos- sessed by the candidate. The cause of the grievances which we have to com- plain of, seems to me, Gentlemen, clearly and directly traceable to the originally defective constitution of the authority from which they have proceeded. Self-elected and irresponsible bodies have always been found the most unsafe depositories of power; if, moreover, the members hold their offices for life, all the elements of misgovernment are combined, and we may safely antici- pate that the public good will be sacrificed to private interests. Under the present constitution, the Council have the power of filling up vacancies in their own body, and are thus enabled to admit or exclude particular de- scriptions of persons, to indulge friendly or unfriendly feelings. These appointments, in which, not only the whole profession, but the public are interested, take place in secret conclave; thus every facility is afforded for the exercise of favour or prejudice, and all the checks against abuse are entirely neglected. A body thus constituted is particularly unfit to pre- s50 side over a liberal profession; and to exercise, without controul or appeal, acts of legislation directly involving the pecuniary interests of themselves as well as of the subject members. The ruling authority in the surgical profession will not fulfil the ends of its institution, unless it possess the good opinion and confidence of the body at large; and these they cannot have, unless they are nominated by the members. In any new constitution, then, it will be necessary that the general body should elect those who are to be at their head; and I conceive further, that that appointment should be for a limited time, and not for life. At present, the admission into the Council depends on seniority, not absolutely, but nearly so; a similar rule regulates the subsequent promotion into the Court of Examiners; and, as the appointment is for life, it must often happen, as it frequently lias, that the duties of that Court, which, if properly performed, would require men in the active period of life and the full vigour of their faculties, have been executed by per- sons nearly approaching or actually arrived at the ex- treme verge of existence. In an imperfect and progres- sive science, like surgery, such individuals must be far behind the actual state of knowledge; consequently un- able to estimate the acquirements of those recently edu- cated, and not the best qualified to represent the surgical profession. Hence we cannot be surprised that, although the Council and Court of Examiners have always num- bered among their members individuals of justly earned and acknowledged eminence, their acts as public bodies have not commanded the respect of the profession at large. It is the object, Gentlemen, of the present meeting to receive the report of the committee, to hear what they have done, and to consider the petition which they have51 drawn up; the petition, which is to embody our griev- ances, and our humble address to the Legislature for the adoption of those measures, which are calculated to remedy our complaints. I conceive that, in the further prosecution of our object, it will be necessary to take a great variety of steps, which cannot be settled by a gene- ral meeting of this kind. It will, therefore, be proper for this meeting to delegate to a committee, perhaps to the one already chosen, the power of doing what, in their opinion, and with the aid of professional legal ad- vice, may appear best calculated to promote our object, that is, such a reform in the constitution of the College, as will not only remedy the grievances we now complain of, but provide against their recurrence. If, Gentlemen, you should adopt the course I have sug- gested, of delegating to a committee the further conduct of this business, and should leave them at liberty to take the measures they may think expedient, they should proceed, in the first instance, to collect and arrange the necessary evidence for substantiating the allegations of our resolutions. Much information has already been offered, and considerable progress has been made in col- lecting materials for illustrating the inherent defects in the constitution of the College, the amount of what it levies, in the shape of fees, from the profession, the inade- quate nature of the course of study which it has pres- cribed, and of the examinations to which it subjects can- didates, and for shewing how the recent oppressive and injurious regulations emanate from the very organization of the governing body. It will be proper to take down names, dates, and facts, so that, when we come before the Legislature, we may be prepared with a body of tes- timony necessary to authenticate our statements. I beg to mention to you another matter, a plan which e 252 Isas been suggested by one of our friends, and favourably received. The course of proceeding we have adopted may be tedious; it may be some time before we can ac- complish the changes we have in view, or we may not be able to bring about any effectual alteration. It would be in our power to convince the public that our motives are not selfish, but that our object is to elevate our pro- fession by advancing the sciences on which it is founded, and thus increasing its claims to respect. The Members of the College of Surgeons, exclusive of the council, might form an association for what has hitherto been hardly attempted, the cultivation of the medical art in the most comprehensive sense of that term, on scientific principles, as a branch of experimental knowledge, without any reference to the doctrines of the schools. To form a Museum of pathological anatomy for illustrating the changes which disease produces in the structures of the body; to bring together the results of their experience in hospital or other practice, for the pur- pose of shewing how changes of structure occur, how their formation is indicated, and how they may be re- moved; to publish these from time to time; and to form a comprehensive medical library, would be the purposes to which such a society might direct its labours, most usefully for its members, for the profession, and the public. The united efforts of the numerous active and enterprizing surgeons in London, and in all parts of England, when directed to such objects, could not fail to accomplish results of the highest importance in the neglected department of general pathology, as well as in the more limited sphere of surgery strictly so called.I. APPENDIX. \*1APPENDIX. No. I. Resolutions agreed to by the General Meeting at the Freemasons' Tavern. At a Meeting* of the Members of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, held at the Freemasons’ Ta- © vern, on Saturday, February 18th, 1826, W. Law- rence, Esq. in the Chair, It was Resolved; 1st. That the objects contemplated by the Legisla- ture in incorporating the College of Surgeons, were, to advance the science of surgery, and to render its prac- titioners more worthy of confidence; that, in order to enable the public to distinguish between the well-in- formed surgeon and the ignorant pretender, the College was empowered to examine all those who might be de- sirous of practising surgery, and authorized to furnish such as should be found competent, with testimonials of qualification ; and that, by thus uniting into one body all the talent and experience of the profession, and placing at their disposal a valuable Museum, the Legislature expected results favourable to the improvement of sur- gical knowledge. That the public, and the members of the surgical profession, may justly complain that these Moved by Fred. Tyrrel, Esq. seconded by Jas. Wardrop, Esq,56 Moved by Jas. Paty, Esq. se- conded by — Leese, Esq. important ends have not been fulfilled, either by the late Corporation, or the present Royal College of Surgeons in London: that these are essentially one and the same body, differing only in name, and in the titles conferred on their officers: that they were formed on the same plan, and have always been managed in the same spirit, as the various commercial corporations, and have thus been unfitted for rendering the services required of them. Carried unanimously. 2ndly. That the Master, Wardens, ami Court of As- sistants of the Corporation, who are now called President, Vice-Presidents, and Council of the Royal College, having been in the habit of sharing: among: themselves a consider- able portion of the admission fees paid by the new mem- bers, and consequently having a direct pecuniary interest in increasing the number of such admissions, have been so unmindful of their important public duty, that of preventing the entrance of improper persons into the profession, that they have affected to go through the forms of examination in a single evening, with so great a number of candidates, as to render such examination perfectly nugatory as a test of qualification ; and that many persons who have been admitted by the Court of Examiners, and whose names are still found in the an- nual list of the College, have been regular advertising quacks, venders of secret medicines, which they have puffed into notice by the usual arts of advertisements in the newspapers, of bills distributed and placards posted in the public streets. That, although the Court of Examiners no longer allow themselves, as they formerly did, to go through the forms of examination with sixty or seventy individuals67 in an evening, they still conduct this important part of their duty in so imperfect a manner, as to render their diploma an altogether inadequate criterion of professional qualification, devoting much too short a time to the en- quiry, and entirely omitting several branches of surgical knowledge. Carried unanimously. 3dly. That the regulations, first promulgated and acted upon in 1823, prescribing the course of study required of candidates for the diploma, contain provi- sions of the most oppressive character, injurious to the rights and property of individuals, calculated to increase the expenses and difficulties of acquiring surgical know- ledge, and to serve the private interests of the examiners, by whom they were made. In proof of this statement the three following regulations may be adduced : 1st. fi Candidates for the diploma will be required to produce, prior to examination, certificates of having re- gularly attended three winter courses at least of ana- tomical lectures, and also one or more winter courses of chirurgical lectures, and of having performed dissections during two or more winter courses/’ Thus certificates of attendance on summer courses of anatomical and sur- gical lectures and dissections are no longer received, although such certificates had always heretofore been admitted indiscriminately with those of winter courses; and lecturers inferior to none in established reputation for ability, knowledge, and usefulness, had been in the habit of teaching anatomy during the summer to large classes of pupils; and although such opportunities of employing in anatomical pursuits the five months of com- parative leisure and longer day-light, from May to Oc- tober, must be advantageous to all zealous students, and Moved by W. Kingdon, Esq. seconded by —Ingram,Esq.Mover Geo. Maciwain, Esq. seconder C. A. Key, Esq. Mover, R. Welbank, Esq, seconder, W. Kingdon, Esq. 68 particularly convenient and desirable to those whose time and pecuniary means are limited. Carried unanimously. 2nd. Certificates of attendance on anatomical and surgical lectures and dissections are not to be received in future except from surgeons and physicians to London hospitals, or from others who are vaguely and unintel- ligibly described as “ persons teaching in a school ac- knowledged by the medical establishment of one of the recognized hospitals,” or from the appointed professors of anatomy and surgery in the Universities of Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen. This oppressive innovation confines the honourable and lucrative employment of teaching anatomy and sur- gery to a few individuals, conferring it on them from an accidental distinction, often independent of personal merit: by excluding all other surgeons, however great their abilities and acquirements, it deprives talent and industry of their just reward, and it extinguishes emula- tion and competition, the surest sources of excellence. Of the ten examiners, whose names are signed to this attempt at erecting the teaching of anatomy and surgery into a monopoly for the benefit of a few individuals, eight were at that time London hospital surgeons. Carried unanimously. 3rdly. The College will receive no certificates of attendance on an hospital, unless it shall be situated in London, Edinburgh, Dublin, Glasgow, or Aberdeen: thus a stigma, altogether unmerited, has been fixed on the surgeons of the various provincial hospitals in this kingdom, who are in no respect inferior to their brethren in the schools above enumerated, and on those of similar59 establishments in other parts of the world; and a large addition has been made to the emoluments of the eight London Hospital Surgeons who framed the regulations. Among the hospitals thus proscribed, and thereby ren- dered comparatively useless for the purpose of profes- sional education, we may enumerate those of Newcastle, Leeds, Manchester, Liverpool, Lincoln, Birmingham, Northampton, Nottingham, Bath, Bristol, Gloucester, Worcester, Exeter, Norwich, Oxford, and Cambridge. Carried unanimously. 4thly. That the valuable museum of the late Mr. Mover, E. a. Hunter, liberally purchased at the public expense, by a seconded wise government anxious to promote the cultivation of —E1lerby,Esq. useful knowledge, and presented to the College for the express purpose of assisting the progress of anatomy and surgery, has been so managed as to have been of little or no public utility* No catalogue of its contents has been printed or even prepared, although the museum was purchased in the year 1799, and was removed to the College in 1806. It is inaccessible to the members during eight months in the year; and, for the remaining four months, it is open only twice a week, and for four hours on each day. The College Library also, consisting of books partly purchased out of the College funds, and partly presented by individuals, has always been and still continues entirely inaccessible to the members;*— there is no catalogue and no librarian. Carried unanimously. * : - : * i > i'th ; •’ I t 5thly. That, having now stated some of the more Mover, H. prominent evils of which we have to complain, as being alike injurious to the public and to the profession, we S.Plumbe,Esq. would willingly pass over, in silence, the personal indig-60 Moved by A. L. Wigan, Esq. Mover, T.Wakley.Esq. Seconder, _ Dillon, Esq. nities offered to the individual members by the body which governs the affairs of the College. The distant members of the profession will learn with surprise, that, on every occasion of a public lecture given in the theatre of the Coll eofe, the members at lar^e are made to enter at a separate and inconvenient door at the back of the building; and should they, for the sake of obtaining seats, arrive before this door is opened, they are con- strained, whatever be the weather, to wait in the open street, whilst for the Council and their personal friends is reserved the entrance by the portico in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, with many other accommodations and conve- niences. Carried unanimously. 6thly. That a committee be appointed to prepare for the purpose of presentation to the Council of the College, a remonstrance, grounded on the foregoing resolutions, expressing in firm but respectful language, the dissatis- faction with which this meeting and the profession at large contemplate the various matters enumerated in these resolutions, and requesting that such measures may be adopted to remedy the grievances complained of as the Court may deem most advisable. To this resolution the following amendment was moved and carried by a large majority :— That the charter of the College, by conferring on the Counsel and Court of Examiners the unqualified and unconstitutional privilege of electing those who are to be their colleagues in office, has been the sole cause of the injuries and grievances detailed in the foregoing resolutions. With a view of effectually preventing a re-61 currence of those numerous evils, and of rendering the Royal College of Surgeons in London a benefit to the public, and an honourable distinction to all its members, —We further Resolve, That a petition, founded on the adopted resolutions, be immediately prepared and pre- sented to the House of Commons, praying for the appoint- ment of a committee to inquire into the abuses of the said College, with a view of ultimately obtaining from His Majesty a New Charter, which shall provide that the officers of the College be anuually chosen by the mem- bers, so that each member may have a voice in the elec- tion of those persons who are to regulate the proceedings of that College, in the prosperity of which he must feel a personal as well as a national interest. Carried by a large majority. 8thly. That an open committee of twenty-one mem- bers of the College, with power to add to their number, be immediately appointed to prepare a petition, founded upon the foregoing resolutions; and that a subscription, of which Mr. Lawrence be requested to accept the office of Treasurer, be commenced for the purpose of defraying the necessary expenses. Carried unanimously. W. Lawrence, Chairman, Mr. Lawrence having vacated his seat, Mr. Key was called to the chair, and the thanks of the meeting were voted to the former gentleman, for his able and impartial conduct in the chair. Mover, — Ingram,Esq. Seconder, — Hawkins, Esq. ♦62 APPENDIX, No. II. History and Constitution of the Colleye of Surgeons« In the year 1540, there were two companies ii occu- pying the art, and exercising the faculty of surgeons;” the one called the Barbers of London, the other named the Surgeons of London. The first company had been incorporated in 1461, by the names of Masters or Go- vernors of the Mystery of Barbers, by letters patent, under the great seal of Edward IV. These were con- firmed in 1500, by Henry VII. with this alteration only, that four, instead of two, masters were appointed, who were stiled, Mayistri sire Guhernatores mistere harbi- tonsorum et siruryicorum. This charter was renewed by Henry VllL in 1512, but did not undergo any altera- tion. The second company had not been incorporated. In the first mentioned year these two bodies were united, and called by the names of Masters, or Governors, of the Mystery and Commonalty of Barbers and Surgeons of London. This company, in 1604, having been annoyed by certain vexatious prosecutions of the College of Phy- sicians, applied for and obtained from James 1. a charter, by which the Court of Assistants was first instituted. This charter entrusted the examination of all who should practise surgery, within three miles of London, to the63 Master and two of the Assistants. Charles I. renewed this charter in 1629, extended its jurisdiction to seven miles round London, and directed ten Examiners to be elected by and out of the Court of Assistants. The Exa- miners, so elected, were to continue in that office for life; and were still to be considered a part of the Court of Assistants, notwithstanding their election as Examiners. There was not any other alteration of importance, until the year 1745, when the surgeons were separated from the barbers. By the Act of Parliament which effected this separation, sixteen persons were nominated, who were authorised to elect five others, to constitute the Court of Assistants. This Court ivas empowered to Jill up all vacancies, either in its own body or in that of the Court of Examiners ; and vested also ivith the entire government and direction of the new company's affairs. Thus, although the surgeons were freed from their absurd and disgraceful alliance with the barbers, the principles of the constitution remained the same as before. It was evidently impossible for any person, how much soever distinguished by genius, talent, or learning, to arrive at the honours of the corporation, or to have a voice in the management of its business, unless by the special favour of the Court of Assistants: and as the members of this Court were elected for life, and invested with despotic authority, they appeared in a short time to forget that their offices were intended for the benefit of the commonalty. It soon became a matter of notoriety that abuses of all kinds were allowed to exist, without any sort of check. In July, 1796, by the death of one of the governors, and the illness of another, a sufficient number could not be obtained to constitute a legal court for the election of officers for the ensuing year; and it was said, that the64 Corporation, owing to this circumstance, became dis^ solved. Th is appears to have been merely a pretence; for, in the next session of Parliament, a bill was introduced, to get indemnity for the past, to erect the said deceased corporation into a College, with greatly increased power and authority, and to obtain a monopoly of lecturing' on the practice of surgery. By the secrecy with which this measure was conducted, the bill had passed the House of Commons, and had been twice read in the House of Lords, before the Commonalty knew that any legislative measure had been proposed. When, however, its pro- visions and tendency w ere known, the indignation of the members was roused. They commenced a vigorous, and ultimately a successful resistance. In the proceedings before the Committee, it was elicited, that from 1745 to the period when this Act was applied for, 80,000/. had been paid in the shape of fees, of which 16,000/. had gone directly into the pockets of the Examiners; and that the greater part of the remainder had been dissi- pated in useless extravagance. It was proved also, that not any institution for the advancement of science, or the benefit of the Corporation, had been promoted; that the theatre wras without lectures, and the library without books. The bill itself excited the contempt and derision of their Lordships, and Lord Thurlow designated it as “ a miserable and wretched performance, in which the arrogance of the provisions maintained an equal contest with their absurdity.” It is scarcely necessary to add, that the bill was rejected. On the 24th of March, 1800, they obtained from Royal favour, what the wisdom of Parliament had denied; and by charter they procured themselves to be erected into a College of a similar constitution to the late corporation*65 ♦ The administration of affairs remained in the same hands, and the condition of the commonalty was neither altered nor benefited.” * The provisions of this charter ought to be well un- derstood, because the legal existence and powers of the College are derived from it, and because it has continued that defective constitution of the governing body, which originated in the old corporation, and to which the various grievances so long felt and complained of by the general body of members are clearly referable. It will be un- necessary, however, to insert the whole document. It begins by reciting the former charters and Acts of Parliament relating to the Corporation of Surgeons, and thus proceeds:— “ Whereas we are informed that the said Corporation of Master, Governors, and Commonalty of the Art and Science of Surgeons of London, hath become and now is dissolved : And whereas it is of great consequence to the commonweal of this kingdom, that the art and science of surgery should be duly promoted: And whereas it ap- pears to us, that the establishment of a College of Sur- geons will be expedient for the due promotion and en- couragement of the study and practice of the said art and science; now we, of our special grace and mere motion, and at the humble petition of James Earle, Esq. the late master, and divers other members of the afore- said late Corporation of Surgeons, have willed, ordained, constituted, declared, given and granted, and by these presents, for us, our heirs, and successors, do will, ordain, constitute and declare, give and grant unto the aforesaid James Earle, and unto all the members of the said late * A Letter to the Members of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, by Brutus, p, 1—7. F66 company or corporation of master, governors, and com- monalty of the art and science of surgeons of London, having been admitted and approved surgeons, within the rules of the said company; and also unto all such per- sons, who upon, or since, the dissolution of the said cor- poration, shall have obtained letters testimonial, under a seal purporting to be the seal of the said late dissolved corporation, authorizing them to practise the art and science of surgery; that they, from henceforth for ever hereafter, shall be and remain by virtue of these presents, one body corporate and politic; by the name of The Royal College of Surgeons in London, and by the same name shall and may have perpetual succession, and a common seal; with power to break, alter, and make anew, the said seal, from time to time, at their will and pleasure; and by the same name shall and may implead, and be impleaded, before all manner of justices, in all courts, and in all manner of actions and suits; and shall be at all times and for ever hereafter persons able and capable in law to take, purchase, possess, hold and enjoy, and shall and may take, purchase, possess, hold and enjoy, a hall or council-house, with its appurtenances, situate within the cities of London or Westminster, or within one mile of either of them, for the use and purposes of the said College; and also any other lands, tenements, rents, and hereditaments wheresoever situate, lying and being; not exceeding together with the aforesaid hall or council- house, and its appurtenances, the yearly value of one thousand pounds in the whole; without incurring any of the penalties in any statute of mortmain, or any thing, in any statute of mortmain, to the contrary notwithstanding.” It then declares, that the City of London shall have no jurisdiction over the College, and that the members shall not be entitled to any franchise in that city: that67 the College shall exercise and enjoy all gifts, grants, li- berties, privileges, and immunities conferred by former charters and acts: and that it shall provide a room, within four hundred yards of the usual place of execu- tion for the county of Middlesex or the city of London, for the purpose of dissecting' and anatomising the bo- dies of murderers. It then establishes the government of the College as follows:— “ And it is our further will and pleasure, that it shall and may be lawful, to and for the said College, hereby established and incorporated, from time to time in the manner hereinafter mentioned, to elect, choose, and ap- point twenty-one persons to be the Court of Assistants of the said Colleg-e: of which Court of Assistants ten persons shall at all times be constituted and appointed examiners of surgeons for the said College; and of such ten persons one shall be Principal Master, and two others shall be Governors; to be respectively qualified and ad- mitted in such manner, and to continue in the said offices respectively, for such time or times as by these our letters patent is hereinafter ordered and appointed. And it shall and may be lawful for the Master and Governors of the * said College, or for one of them, together with ten or more of the members of the said Court of Assistants for the time being, when and as often as to any one of the Master or Governors shall seem meet, to hold courts and assemblies, in order to treat and consult about, and con- cerning, the rule, order, state, and government of the said College. And also that it shall and may be lawful to and for the said Master and Governors, and Court of Assistants so assembled, or the major part of them, to make, ordain, confirm, annul, or revoke, from time to time, such bye-laws, ordinances, rules, and constitutions f 268 as to them shall seem requisite and convenient, for the regulation, government, and advantage of the said Col- lege: so as such bye-laws, ordinances, rules, and consti- tutions be not contrary to law; and in all such cases as shall be necessary, be examined, approved of, and al- lowed, as by the laws and statutes of this realm is pro- vided and required : and also to transact and ordain all such other matters and things as the Master, Governors, and Court of Assistants, of the late dissolved Company or Corporation, of the Master,Governors, and Commonalty of the Art and Science of Surgeons of London, might here- tofore lawfully do, transact, or ordain.” It then appoints, by name, the first Master, the two first Governors, the ten first Examiners, and the mem- bers of the first Court of Assistants, “ And we also will, that the said persons, so before named and constituted Examiners of Surgeons of the said College, and their successors in that office, duly chosen, nominated, or appointed, and that the said persons so before named and constituted Assistants of the said Col- lege, established by these our letters patent, and their successors in that office, duly chosen, nominated or ap- pointed, shall respectively hold and enjoy their said offices during their natural lives, or until they shall be lawfully removed out of the said offices for any reasonable cause.” It provides, that the two principal Serjeant Surgeons to the King, and the Surgeon General to the Forces (an office which has been since abolished), if not previously members of the Court of Assistants andsExaminers, shall be admitted from time to time on the first vacancies. It prescribes oaths to be taken by the Master, Governors, Examiners, and Court of Assistants; and declares, that none of them shall proceed to act until the oaths have been taken.69 « And that each of such examiners and assistants shall take the following oath, that is to say :—‘ You do swear, that so long as you shall remain in the office ot examiner (or assistant, as the case may be) of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, you will diligently main- tain the honour and welfare of the said College; and in all things relating to your office, and with all manner ot persons, act equally and impartially, according to the best of your skill and knowledge.—So help you God.’” It then settles, in the following manner, the important point of elections: “ And we further will, that the Master, Governors, and Assistants, for the time being, of the said College^ hereby made and established, shall, upon the first Thurs- day in the month of July next after the date of these our letters patent, or within one month then after, and upon the first Thursday in July, in every succeeding year, or within one month then after, meet in the place which shall from time to time be used, or appointed to be used as their hall or council-house, or as near to such hall or council-house as conveniently may be; and then and there elect, choose, and appoint out of the examiners, by the majority of votes of such of the Court of Assistants as shall be then present, one person to be principal Master, and two other persons to be Governors of the said College, for the then succeeding year; and then and there also, in like manner, choose and appoint one or more of our principal serjeant surgeons, or the surgeon-general of our forces, if not already an examiner or examiners of surgeons of the said College; or otherwise shall choose and appoint out of their own body, some other person or persons, to be Examiner or Examiners cf Surgeons for the same College, in the place and stead of such exami_ ner or examiners as shall have happened to die, or have /70 been removed from the said office of examiner in the then next preceding year, unless such vacancies in the office of Master or Governor, and in that Court, shall have been previously filled up within the then preceding year, which it shall be lawful for the said Court of Assistants to do, at any special court to be held for that purpose. And also in like manner choose and appoint, out of the members of the said College established by these pre- sents, some person or persons to be of the Court of As- sistants of the said College, in the place of such person or persons who shall have happened to die in or have been removed from the said office of one of the Court of Assistants in the then next preceding year; unless such vacancies in that Court shall have been previously filled up within the then preceding year; which it shall be lawful for the said Court of Assistants to do, at a special court to be held for that purpose. “ And it is our will and pleasure, that the Master, or one of the Governors, together with ten assistants at the least, shall be at all times sufficient to constitute a Court of Assistants for the purpose of such elections, or for the purpose of transacting any other business belonging to the said Court. But no Court of Assistants shall be holden for the special purpose of electing any person to be Master, Governor, Examiner, or Assistant; without seven days previous notice to be given for that purpose, by summons to the members of the Court of Assistants for the time beingf.” It points out a course of proceeding in certain cases of death pr incapacity of the Master and both Governors. “ And it is our further will and pleasure, that afterthe day of the date of these presents, no person except those who before the day of the date of these presents were Members of the late Corporation of Surgeons, established71 by the said act, made and passed in the eighteenth year of the reign of our Royal Grandfather, King George II.; and also excepting such persons as shall have received such letters testimonial as aforesaid, under a seal pur- porting to be the seal of the late dissolved Company or Corporation of Surgeons, shall be capable of becoming a Member of the said College hereby established, unless he shall have obtained letters testimonial of his qualifica- tion to practise the art and science of surgery, under the common seal of the College hereby established; but every person who shall hereafter obtain such letters tes- timonial, under the common seal of the College aforesaid, shall thereby, by virtue of such letters testimonial, be- come and be constituted a member of the said College, subject to all the regulations, provisions, and bye-laws of the said College.” It directs that the College shall examine all persons for the army and navy service ; also all surgical instru- ments for those services, receiving such fees as the proper officers shall allow, and no more, provided that those fees be not less than those heretofore paid. “ And further we will that no court or courts for the examination of any person or persons touching their skill in surgery, shall ever be held but in the presence of the master or one of the governors, and five of the members, at least, of the Court of Examiners of the said College, hereby established and incorporated as afore- said.” Lastly, it points out the mode in which members of the late dissolved corporation may signify their consent to become members of the new College. “ On the 13th of February, 1822, the College ob- tained from his present Majesty (the names of the hum- ble petitioners are not mentioned) a charter, by virtue72 of which the Master, Governors, and Court of Assistants, were dignified with the titles of President, Vice-Presi- dent, and Council, with the privilege of having a mace, and of holding lands, &c. to the amount of 2000/. per annum.” * * Letter of Brutus, p, 9,73 APPENDIX, No. III. Mr, Bennett’s Statement of his own Case, consisting of a Letter addressed by him to the Court of Exa- miners, and of some explanatory Remarks by him- self. To the President and Members of the Court of Exami- ners of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. Sir, and Gentlemen, In consequence of the Court of Examiners having, by their bye-law of March, 1824, evinced an intention not to receive thenceforward the certificates of attendance on lectures delivered by persons unconnected with certain hospitals as physicians or surgeons, I take the liberty of respectfully submitting to your consideration my claims to be recognized as a teacher of anatomy and surgery in London, feeling that my application is fully justified by the numerous exceptions already made to the operation of that law. In the first instance, it may not be altogether unne- cessary to state my pretensions to undertake the arduous duties of a teacher. I beg leave, therefore, to direct your attention to the accompanying documents, which I have the honour to transmit for your inspection. You will thereby perceive, that I have graduated in the University of Dublin, and that having fulfilled the necessary medical exercises, I await but two years to complete the ten years74 required, in order to be admitted to the degree of Doctor Medicine. This entitles me to a similar rank in the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and would ena- ble me to become a Fellow of the College of Physicians, were I disposed to discontinue the practice of surgery. I commenced the study of anatomy and surgery in 1815, and having-followed, during five years, the courses of lectures delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, and attended during the same period the prac- tice of the Richmond hospital, I received, in 1820, the diploma of Member of that body; on which occasion I submitted to two public examinations. I have since had the honour to be admitted a Member of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. In the year 1822, I went to Paris, in order to improve myself further, and with the repeatedly-avowed intention of subsequently establishing myself in London as a teacher. I spent three years there as the pupil of such distinguished characters as M. M. Blainville, Beclard, Laennec, Dupuytren, &c. &c. and during the same pe- riod was employed in teaching to a considerable class of British students, anatomy, physiology, pathology, and surgery. I should further observe, that those who honoured me by being my pupils were not ordinary stu- dents, but men far advanced in their studies, seven- eighths of them, at least, being Doctors of Medicine, or Members of Colleges of Surgeons. With such testimonials, therefore, and such oppor- tunities of acquiring a knowledge of my profession, I confidently trust the Court will deem me competent to teach anatomy and surgery. If they require a further test of my ability, I shall willingly submit to a public examination. I now most respectfully beg leave to state, that I conceive my case to be a* worthy of exception75 to the operation of the bye-law, as that of two-thirds of the teachers now recognized in London, who do not conform to its provisions. They are acknowledged in consequence of having been teachers prior to its pro- mulgation. I have also a similar claim, having begun teaching in 1822. It is further said, that their certificates having been admitted by the Court before the bye-law was passed, gave them an indisputable right to the con- tinuance of that privilege. 1 take the liberty of stating two exceptions, in the cases of Mr. G—— and Mr. S . The first of those gentlemen gave certificates* it is true, but it was merely by procuration from bis brother, during the illness of the latter. Had he given them in his own name, the objection which the Court certainly at first made to admitting them, after the passing of the bye-law, would have been wholly inapplicable. Mr. S — commenced teaching but four months prior to the promulgation of the bye-law, and therefore could not have given any certificates. Still both those gentlemen are now recognized by the Court. The ex- ception in their favour is fully warranted by their abilities and attainments; but it is an exception which, I submit, I am fullv entitled to share. •/ Such are the claims I have to urge upon your atten- tion; and the only objection that can be offered, viz. that of my not being a member of your college during the two first years I lectured in Paris, is rendered perfectly nu- gatory by the fact, that the Court of Examiners admitted the certificates of private teachers, members of the Irish College, equally with those of the English, before the existence of the present bye-law. I have now to state, that the College having last year interfered to prevent Mr. Canning from procuring me, and the English students in Paris, an establishment there.76 and the French authorities having since deprived me of the few facilities I enjoyed, constitute a strong claim upon the consideration of the Court. As my interests were then sacrificed to considerations of public policy, I appeal to your justice not to add to the severe injury I have thereby sustained, the farther one of withholding- from me a privilege you have accorded to others. I appeal to you as individual members of a liberal profes- sion, and as a public body to whom not only its interests and advancement, but its character are entrusted, whether a regulation of little more than a year’s standing should be applied to crush the only prospects in life of a man, who shaped his education, for several years previously, upon the faith, that future regulations would not inter- pose for his ruin. I have the honour to be, Sir, and Gentlemen, Your very obedient and very humble Servant, James R. Bennett. London, September, 1825. As explanatory of the last paragraph, it may be ne- cessary to state the following circumstances. The Eng- lish class, who pursued the study of anatomy with Mr. Bennett in Paris, having rapidly increased in numbers towards the year 1824, excited some angry feelings on the part of the French students, in consequence of the number of subjects they were supposed to consume. This led Mr. Bennett to apprehend the probability of some serious impediments being thrown in his way, during the subsequent winter, and under these circumstances he came to London in August 1824, and had the honour to address Mr. Canning upon the subject. He pointed out to that Right Honourable Gentlemen, the great advant-77 ages presented by the Paris school to English students, and at the same time expressing his apprehensions that the French authorities would interrupt their labours, he prayed his interference with the British ambassador at Paris, in order that the latter should apply to the French Government, and obtain its protection for the English class. Mr. Canning seemed fully disposed to admit the justice of the request, but, unfortunately, he transmitted Mr. Bennett’s letter to the council of the College of Sur- geons for their opinion. Mr. Bennett, dreading the con- sequences of such a reference, addressed individually the members of the council, and entreated their favour- able consideration of the subject. He described to them the valuable opportunities of acquiring medical science afforded at Paris, where nearly 50,000 patients pass annually through the vast hospitals, (gratuitously open to students) and where subjects for dissection can be had at the trivial expense of a few shillings each;—he appealed to them as individuals, who, in their official characters, should permit no other motives than those suggested by the interests of science to influence them; and finally, he insisted upon the fact, of their having no right to counteract the kind disposition of Mr. Canning to protect us, inasmuch as, seven-eighths of the medical students in Paris were persons who had already gradu- ated in medicine, over whom they had no controul, and with whose pursuits any interference of theirs would be cruel and unjustifiable. In spite of this remonstrance Sir Astley Cooper and Mr. Abernethy, with other mem- bers of the council, formed a deputation, which waited on Mr. Canning,and successfully dissuaded him from afford- ing to his countrymen the protection they solicited. In the mean time Mr. Bennett returned to Paris, and re- sumed his courses in September. On the following Ja-78 nuary his apprehensions were realized ; the French stu- dents, instigated by interested individuals, commenced a clamour against the English, on the supposed scarcity of subjects. At length their hostility proceeded so far, that the French authorities interfered ; they compelled the English to surrender the private dissecting rooms they had previously hired at a great expense in the public establishment, and required them to pursue their labours in conjunction with the French students. This was diffi- cult, as they were exposed to great inconveniences; and positive insult finally precluded its possibility. Thus was the English class in Paris, (originaiiy formed by Mr. Bennett, at a sacrifice of much time and great labour) broken up, and thus was he deprived, by the conduct of the council of the College of Surgeons, not only of a considerable income, but of what was of more import- ance to him, the opportunity of pursuing his studies in such a school as Paris. In September 1825, Mr. Bennett, finding all his hopes crushed in Paris, came to London, and addressed the foregoing letter to the Court of Ex- aminers. He confidently anticipated that, as individuals of high rank and great wealth, their honour and honesty would prompt them to make some requital for the cruel injury they had previously inflicted on him. They have, however, rejected his application—their motives for doing so, they have not thought proper to communicate to him. » • i /79 APPENDIX, No. IV. Regulations of the Royal College of Surgeons in Lon- don, respecting Education and Examinations, as issued in a corrected form in February, 1826. Royal College of Surgeons in London. COURT OF EXAMINERS In pursuance of their duty to promote the cultivation of sound chirurgical knowledge, and to discountenance practices which have a contrary tendency, the Court have adopted the following regulations; That the only schools of anatomy and surgery recog- nized by the Court be, London, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen: That certificates of attendance upon the chirurgical practice of an hospital be not received by the Court, unless such hospital be in one of the above recognized schools, and shall contain on an average one hundred patients: The Court of Examiners will, however, receive as testimonials of education, certificates of attendance on provincial hospitals, containing one hundred patients under chirurgical treatment; provided a student shall have previously attended two courses of anatomical lec- V80 tures, and two courses of dissections, in any of the recog- nized schools of anatomy. Yet, the Court of Examiners require, that the term of attendance on such provincial hospitals shall be of twice the duration of that required at hospitals in any of the recognized schools of anatomy. And, that certificates of attendance at lectures on anatomy, physiology, the theory and practice of surgery and of the performance of dissections, be not received by the Court, except from the appointed professors of ana- tomy and surgery in the universities of Dublin, Edin- burgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen; or from persons teach- ing in a school connected with, and accredited by the medical establishment of a recognized hospital, in one of the schools of anatomy, or from persons being physicians or surgeons to any of such hospitals. Candidates for the diploma will be required to pro- duce, prior to examination, certificates, conformably to the above regulations— 1. Of being twenty-two years of age : 2. Of having been engaged six years, at least, in the acquisition of professional knowledge: 3. Of having regularly attended three winter courses, at least, of anatomical lectures; delivered at subsequent periods; and, also, one or more winter courses of chirur- gical lectures : 4. Of having performed dissections during two or more subsequent winter courses : 5. And of having diligently attended, during the term of, at least, one year, the chirurgical practice of one of the following hospitals, viz.— St. Bartholomew’s, St. Thomas’, the Westminster, Guy’s, St. George’s, the London, and the Middlesex, in London;—the Richmond, and Steeven’s, in Dublin;— the Royal Infirmary in Edinburgh ;—the Royal Infirmary81 in Glasgow; or the Royal Infirmary in Aberdeen; or of twice that term in any of the 'provincial hospitals as above described. Such certificates must also express the dates of the commencement and termination of each course of lec- tures, dissections, and period of attendance on hospital- practice. Candidates under the following circumstances, and of the required age, are, also, admissible to examination. Members of any of the legally constituted Colleges of Surgeons in the United Kingdom. Graduates in medicine of any of the Universities of the United Kingdom; who shall have performed two, or more, courses of dissection, as above specified; and who shall have regularly attended, the chirurgical practice of an hospital, as above described. The above rules are required to be observed by can- didates for the testimonial of qualification of principal surgeon in any service. Candidates for the testimonial of qualification of as- sistant-surgeon, in any service, must have attended six months, at least, the chirurgical practice of one of the above described hospitals; and two or more courses of anatomy; one course of surgery; and one of dissections ; as specified;—and must be twenty-one years of age. By order, Edmund Belfour, Secretary. Candidates are to observe, that tickets of admission, only, will not be received as certificates or evidence of attendance. G82 APPENDIX, No. v. Course of Study required by the Society of Apothecaries, and Reputations for the Examination of Candidates. APOTHECARIES’ HALL. Regulations for the Examination of Apothecaries. The Court of Examiners, chosen and appointed by the Master, Wardens, and Assistants of the Society of Apothecaries, of the City of London, in pursuance of certain Acts of Parliament, “ For better regulating* the practice of apothecaries throughout England and Wales,” passed in the 55th year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Third, and in the 6th year of the reign of his Majesty King George the Fourth, have determined:— That every person who shall be admitted to an exa- mination for a certificate to practise as an apothecary shall be required to produce Testimonials of having served an apprenticeship of not less than five years to an apothecary, or to a member of the Royal College of Surgeons, of London, or of Edin- burgh, or of Dublin, or to a surgeon in his Majesty’s army or navy; of having attained the full age of twenty-one years, anti being of a good moral conduct. He is expected to possess a competent knowledge of ■83 the Latin language, and to produce certificates of having attended not less than Two courses of lectures on anatomy and physiology. Two courses of lectures on the theory and practice of medicine. One course of lectures on chemistry; and One course of lectures on materia nicdica. A certificate of attendance for six months, at least, on the medical practice of some public hospital, or infirmary, or for nine months at a dispensary. The Court have also determined, that the examination for a certificate to practise as an apothecary, shall be as follows: *1. In translating parts of the Pharmacopoeia Londi- nensis, and Physicians' Prescriptions. 2. In Pharmaceutical Chemistry. 3. In the Materia Pdediea and in Medical Botany.f 4. In .Anatomy and Physiology. 5. In the Practice of Medicine. * The Court are extremely anxious to impress upon those persons, who may be intending- to present themselves for examination before them, a conviction of the absolute necessity of such knowledge of the Latin language as may enabie them to translate the Pharmacopoeia Londinensis, and Prescriptions of Physicians, which they consider as a qualification indispensable to the apothecary, and which the fifth sec- tion of the Act expressly requires. t By Medical Botany is to be understood those indigenous plants only, which are contained in the Pharmacopoeia Londinensis, and such indigenous plants as are esteemed of a poisonous quality. G 284 APPENDIX, No. VI. (a) Course of Instruction and Qualifications required for the Army Medical Service. Memorandum. Army Medical Board Office, January 1st, 1891. The Army Medical Board, solicitous for the improve- ment of the department in its various branches, and con- sidering' the present a favourable opportunity for the selection and encouragement of well-educated persons, have thought it advisable to promulgate the courses of instruction, and the qualifications required of gentlemen entering the medical department of the army, as well as during their progress in the service. For Hospital .Assistants, The candidates for this first commissioned appoint- ment in the medical department, must be unmarried men, not under twenty, nor above twenty-five years of age; they must produce certificates of a regular apprentice- ship, and of attendance for one year in an hospital or infirmary; or, if without apprenticeship, of three years in an hospital, with one of having attended practical pharmacy. They are also to be provided with diplomas from the Royal Colleges of Surgeons of London, Dublin, or Edinburgh, and with certificates of regular courses of85 study in the following branches of professional know- ledge, at established schools of eminence, viz. Surgery. Anatomy. Practical Anatomy. Practice of Medicine. Chemistry. During a full period of 12 months. Materia Medica. Botany. The Practice of Medicine and Surgery. During six months. It will be considered an additional recommendation to gentlemen entering the service, to have attended pub- lic establishments for the treatment of diseases of the skin,eyes, mental derangement, and midwifery. A libera! education is indispensably requisite, and the greater the attainments of the candidates are in the various branches of science, in addition to competent professional knowledge, the more eligible will they be deemed for promotion ; as selections to fill vacancies will be guided more by reference to such acquirements than to seniority : with the above-recited qualifications they are entitled to promotion as assistant surgeons and regimental surgeons; but every gentleman must have served five years at least in the junior appointments, before he can be promoted to the rank of regimental surgeon; and he who gives the best proofs of diligent exertion in the performance of his public duty, and of attention in the acquirement of practical knowledge, will be noted as the most eligible candidate for advancement. Gentlemen already in the service, are earnestly re- commended to avail themselves of every opportunity of adding to their knowledge, by attending Universities or 486 Schools: for which purpose, every facility will be af- forded by the Director-General. They are especially desired to transmit to this office,- the statements of such classes as they may have attended subsequently to the examinations before this board, either on professional or other branches of science, that the same may be duly registered : and every gentleman must be prepared for further examination, before he can obtain promotion, or return to the service from the half-paylist. Medical officers are encouraged and recommended to look forward to the appointment of surgeon to the forces, and of physician to the forces ; and to endeavour espe- cially to qualify themselves for either, according to the bent of their inclinations and to their previous study. For the commission of surgeon to the forces, it will hereafter be expected that the candidate shall have at- tended a public hospital three years; one of which must have been passed in London. The rank of physician to the forces requires, in addi- tion to the knowledge ant! experience to be gained in the regular progress of study anti of service, that the candi- date should be a licentiate of the Royal College of Phy- sicians of London, or a Graduate of the Univerity of Oxford, Cambridge, Dublin, Edinburgh, or Glasgow. The Licence of the London College of Physicians will always be considered a great recommendation to those who have the other requisite qualifications. Although the British schools are specified, it is to he understood that candidates who have received regu- lar education in foreign Universities, or other schools of acknowledged celebrity, will he admitted to exami- nation.87 A P P E N D I X, No. VI. (b) Regulations of the Board of Admiralty respecting the Professional Studies and 'Examinations oj Na- val Surgeons. NAVAL SURGEONS. Victualling Office, Feb. 23, 1826. The Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty having been pleased to direct, that no person be admitted to be a candidate for the situation of assistant surgeon in the royal navy, who shall not pro- duce a certificate from one of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons of London, Edinburgh, and Dublin, of his fitness for that office ; nor for that of surgeon, unless he shall produce a diploma, or certificate, from one of the said Royal Colleges, founded on an examination to be passed subsequently to his appointment of assistant sur- geon, as to the candidate’s fitness for the situation of surgeon in the navy ; and that in every case, the candi- date producing such certificate, or diploma, shall also undergo a further examination before the medical com- missioners of the victualling board, touching his qualifi- cations in all the necessary branches and points of medicine and surgery, for each of the steps in the naval medical service ; the commissioners for victualling His Majesty’s navy, &c. do hereby signify, for the informa- tion of those persons to whom it may relate, that these regulations and directions will be strictly adhered to in future; and further, that previously to the admission of88 assistant surgeons into the navy, it will be required that they should have received a classical education, and possess in particular a competent knowledge of Latin: also, That they should have served an apprenticeship, or have been employed in an apothecary’s shop for not less than two years : That their age should not be less than twenty years, nor more than twenty-six years : That they should have attended an hospital in Lon* don, Edinburgh, Dublin, or Glasgow, for twelve months : and That they should have attended lectures, &c. on the following subjects, for periods not less than hereunder stated, viz. Anatomy 18 months. Surgery 18 „ Theory oi Medicine ....12 ,, Practice of ditto 12 „ Chemistry 6 „ Materia Medica 6 months. Midwifery 6 „ Actual dissections of the human body 6 ,, Although the above are the only qualifications which are absolutely required in candidates for the appointment of assistant surgeon, a preference will be given to those who, by possessing a knowledge of diseases of the eye, and of any branch of science connected with the profes- sion. such as botany, medical jurisprudence, natural philosophy, &c. appear to be more peculiarly eligible for admission into the service. It is also to be observed that, by the rules of the ser- vice, no assistant surgeon can be promoted to the rank of surgeon until he shall have served full three years in the former capacity; and the board have resolved that not any diploma or certificate of examination from either of the aforesaid Royal Colleges, shall be admitted towards89 / the qualification for surgeon, unless the diploma or cer- tificate shall be obtained on an examination passed after a period of not less than three years’ service as assistant surgeon. By command of the Board, M. Waller Clifton. A great difference will be observed between the course of education laid down in the two foregoing do- cuments, and that which is prescribed by the College of Surgeons. It seems strange that public bodies should differ so much in their estimate of the qualifications ne- cessary for these important branches of the public ser- vice. If the College is right, the Army Medical Board, and the Lords of the Admiralty require a superfluous number and length of studies : if the two latter are right, what must we think of the College regulations? The difference will be best appreciated by the following com- parative view of what is required in each case of persons entering into the lowest rank in the service. College of Surgeons. 1 Anatomy 7 months. 2 Surgery...3 „ - 3 Dissections 3 „ 4 Hospital attendance 6 „ Army Medical Board. > 1 Surgery 2 Anatomy 3 Practical Ana- tomy 4 Practice of Me- dicine 5 Chemistry 6 Materia Me- et ica 7 Botany 8 Hospital at- tendance— If apprenticed 1 year Otherwise 3 years 9 Practical Pharmacy.. 1 year 1 o* M *£1 ■+-> G O £ co Lords of theAdmiralty* 1 Anatomy.. 18 months 2 Surgery.... 18 „ 3 Theory of Medicine 12 „ 4 Practice of Medicine 12 5 Chemistry 6 Materia Medica 7 Midwifery 8 Dissections 9 Hospital at- tendance 12 months90 By the last paragraph in the memorandum of the Army Medical Board, the provisions of which are in all respects worthy of the enlightened head of that depart- ment, we find that no importance is attached to the place at which the requisite knowledge is gained. This board is of opinion, that the sound information necessary for those employed in the medical service of the army, may be got in other quarters as well as in London and the Scotch Universities.91 APPENDIX, No. VII. Course of Study required by the Royal College of Sur- geons in Edinburgh, and Regulations respecting the Examination for Diplomas. COURSE OF STUDY REQUIRED BY THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS. Separate and distinct courses of anatomy; chemistry; materia medica; institutions of medicine; practice of me- dicine, and principles of surgery;—a public hospital for one year; clinical surgery during the attendance of the hospital, midwifery, and practical anatomy. The above courses, delivered by professors of univer- sities, or teachers properly qualified, i. e. by fellows of the Royal Colleges of Physicians or Surgeons of London, Dublin, and Edinburgh, or of the faculty of physicians and surgeons of Glasgow. The student must have spent at least three years in attending the above classes, the first six of which must be winter courses, that is comprehending the same period as those delivered in the university, commencing in Oc- tober, and terminating the end of April, and consisting of at least five lectures in the week. The following are the regulations to be observed by candidates, previous to their being taken upon trial for92 obtaining diplomas from the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh. COURSE OF STUDY. Candidates for surgical diplomas must have followed their studies in some university of reputation, or under teachers who are themselves members of the Colleges of Physicians or Surgeons of London, Dublin, or Edin- burgh. Every candidate, who has not served an apprentice- ship of three or more years to a regular practitioner, must produce certificates of his having attended the in- structions of the above designed teachers, for a period of three or more winter sessions, in the course of which time he must have attended lectures on anatomy, chemistry, institutions or theory of medicine, practice of medicine, principles and practice of surgery, clinical surgery, mid- wifery, and materia medica. The candidate must likewise have attended a public hospital for at least one year. As young gentlemen who are apprenticed to regular practitioners possess many opportunities of improvement, from w hich other students are precluded, the Royal Col- lege have abridged to them the duration and extent of the academical studies necessary for obtaining a diploma, and have accordingly determined that— Every candidate who has served an apprenticeship to a regular practitioner, of three or more years, must pro- duce certificates of his having attended the instructions of the above designed teachers for a period of two or more winter sessions, during which time he must have attended lectures on anatomy, chemistry, institutions or theory of medicine, practice of medicine, principles and practice of surgery, clinical surgery, and midwifery. Them candidate must likewise Shave attended a public hospital for at least one year. The course of examination for admission into this College is described in the following rules, extracted from the “ Laws of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh,” 1816. « Every candidate for admission as an ordinary fel- low, shall undergo four examinations ; each of which shall be by a class of the examinators, and all of them at meetings of the College. 44 Fourteen days previous to his first examination, the candidate shall deliver to the President an Essay, in ma- nuscript, of his own composition, on some subject of sur- gery or surgical anatomy, which shall be submitted by him to the three senior examinators. If it shall be ap- proved by them, it shall be printed at the expense of the candidate; and a copy thereof shall be delivered to each residing fellow of the College, at least eight days before the fourth examination. 44 Should the Essay not be approved of, the objec- tions of the three senior examinators shall he stated to the candidate; and if not removed by him, they shall be reported to the College, who shall decide whether or not they shall proceed to his examination, and order the Essay to be printed. “ At his first examination lie shall be examined srene- rally, although strictly and minutely, on anatomy and surgery. On this examination being concluded, the can- didate shall withdraw, when the meeting shall determine whether the other examinations shall go on or not. If his examinations are allowed to proceed, the candidate shall be called in and informed thereof by the President; and likewise of the subject of his next examination, and the day on which it is to take place.94 “ The second examination shall be on the anatomy and disease of some part of the body, and on the surgical operations and bandages which these diseases require. “ At the end of this examination he shall withdraw as before, when the College shall determine whether the third exantination shall proceed or not. “ The third examination shall be on materia medica, chemistry, pharmacy, and the uses and doses of medi- cines, “ The fourth and last examination shall be on the subject of his Essay.”—p. 33—36. ■ ■ Ifir iniMM- t '95 APPENDIX, No. VIII, French System of Surgical Education, and Nature of their Examinations for the Degree of Doctor in Surgery, as described by Mr. Bennett. — Lancet, v. x. p. 24. Before a student can become a pupit at the Faculty of Medicine, with the view of subsequently taking a de- gree, he must possess the degrees of bachelor in sciences and bachelor in letters, whereby a good primary educa- tion is insured. For the latter, he is examined in the classics, history, geography, and rhetoric; for the former, in the elements of the mathematics, physics, natural his- tory, botany, chemistry, &c. These bachelorships are a kind of subordinate degrees, not requiring any specified course of study: it is only necessary for the student to present himself for examination. On presenting the degrees of bachelor in sciences and bachelor in letters, a student is admitted as pupil at the Faculty of Medicine, and thereon receives a ticket of admission, gratis, to all the courses of lectures delivered there. In order to secure his presence, the student is obliged to register himself (take an inscription) four times a year, for which purpose books are kept open by the secretary9G of the Faculty during' fifteen days, at the commencement of each quarter. The fact of his having inscribed himself sixteen times (which cannot be done in less than four years) entitles him ultimately to examination for degree. A student is at liberty to attend any courses, public or private, he may deem useful; but there are certain courses in each year which it is indispensable lie should follow at the Faculty, and his presence is insured by rolls being occasionally called over, and absence punished by forfeiture of inscriptions. The following is the order prescribed for attendance on the lectures delivered at the Faculty of Medicine:— ATTENDANCE ON LECTURES. INSCRIPTIONS. WINTER COURSE. SUMMER COURSE. First Year, 1 o q 4 •*» Anatomy Physiology Chemistry. Physics Surgical Pathology Botany. Second Year, 5, 6, 7, 8. Anatomy Physiology Operative Surgery. Hygiene Pftarmacy Surgical Pathology Surgical Clinical Lectures. Third Year, 9, 10, 11, 12. Operative Surgery Surgical Clinical Lectures. Medical Pathology Materia Medica Medical Clinical Lectures. Fourth Year, 13, 14, 15, 16. Medical Clinical Lectures History of Medicine. Medical Pathology Legal Medicine Medical and Surgical Cli- nical Lectures Accouchemens. Having completed his sixteen inscriptions, a student can demand to be examined for the degree.97 There are five public examinations which he must undergo, and finally defend a thesis. The examinations are conducted in the following manner, there being usually five candidates and three examiners. The morning of the day on which the first examination is to take place, a subject is placed at the disposal of the candidates, and each is called upon to dis- sect some part. Subsequently they meet in the public theatre, to which all persons are admitted, and are exa- mined, during two hours,— On anatomy and physiology; The second examination on some future dav,-— On pathology and nosology; The third, On chemistry, botany, and pharmacy; The fourth. On hygiene and legal medicine; The fifth, On the practice of medicine or surgery, according as the candidate aspires to the degree of doctor in medicine or doctor in surgery ; this is of little consequence, as either degree warrants a man practising either or both branches. Finally, the candidate must defend, before five exa- miners, a thesis written in the French or Latin language. On no two occasions has the candidate the same exa- miner, so that altogether he has to undergo the ordeal of no less than twenty different examiners. It now remains to enumerate the cost of inscriptions, examinations, thesis, &c.; in fact, every expense attend- ing the education of a doctor in medicine or doctor in surgery— H98 Francs. 15 inscriptions cost 50 francs each 750 16th, or last inscription 35 5 examinations, 30 francs 150 Fees upon thesis, &c 165 Total 1,100 or 50 pounds. The course of study described above may be followed at Paris, Strasburg, or Montpellier; and the Faculty of Medicine, at each of these places, is empowered to exa- mine candidates and grant degrees. The course of study is the same, whether the person means to practise medi- cine or surgery; and there is only one degree, under which any branch of the healing art may be practised. There is an inferior description of medical practi- tioners, called “ officiers de sante,” who are not obliged to study more than three years, and who practise under certain restrictions. It is not necessary for them to re- sort to Paris, Strasburg, or Montpellier; they may pursue their professional studies at what are called the secondary schools of other cities. They are examined, before being admitted to practice, by commissioners from one of the Faculties of Medicine, who visit the secondary schools for that purpose at stated periods.99 APPENDIX, No. IX. Course of Study and Examination for the Degree of Doctor in Surgery, at the University of Leipzig, [This, and the following account of the course pursued at Berlin, were very obligingly furnished by Dr. Kind, a German Physician, who graduated at Leipzig, and is now settled in London.] The study of medicine and surgery is not so much divided in Germany as it is in Great Britain, and every body that has taken the degree of Doctor has the right to practise surgery as well as medicine. In order to take the degree of Doctor Medici nee et Chirurgiee, which are always combined, besides a classical education, and particularly an exact knowledge of the Latin and Greek languages, are required the following sciences : First year : Philosophy, Natural Philosophy, Botany, Chemistry, Anatomy. Second year: Exercises in Dissecting, Comparative Anatomy, Physiology, General Pathology. Third year: Special Pathology, Therapeuticks, Ma- teria Medica, Theoretical Course of Midwifery. Fourth year: Clinical Course of Midwifery, Clinical Lectures on Internal Treatment; Surgery. Fifth year: Clinical Lectures on Surgery, Operative Surgery, course of Operations made on Dead Bodies, Medicina Forensis. No time is fixed for the study of physic and surgery : h 2100 in general four, five, and more years are spent in the above-mentioned order. The lectures are delivered from twice to six times a week. Generally after the two first years the student undergoes the first examination, to which, however, he cannot be admitted but by proving', by written testimony of professors, that he has frequented lectures on botany, chemistry, anatomy, physiology, ge- neral pathology, and attended the dissecting room. The faculty now propose to him three aphorisms of Hippo- crates, which he must explain in Latin, whereupon he is admitted to the examination (examen pro Baccalau- reatu) which lasts four hours, and is held in Latin. The subjects of the examination are botany, chemistry, na- tural philosophy, anatomy, comparative anatomy, phy- siology, and general pathology; and eight members of the faculty examine the student. After two or more years the Baccalaureus is admitted to the second examination (examen rigorosum), if he can prove by written testi- mony that the professors of clinical surgery and medicine think him worthy of it, and that he has frequented the lectures on pathology, therapeuticks, materia medica, surgery, midwifery, and medicina forensis. This exami- nation, like that above, is in Latin, of four hours, and on the just named branches. Now the candidate may write his dissertatio inauguralis when he likes, on any medi- cal subject, in Latin. When it has been printed, the day is fixed for the disputation, after which he becomes elected Doctor Medicime et Chirurgioe. If he wishes to practise midwifery, he must (besides frequenting'the practical and theoretical courses on mid- wifery, which, however, every body, who aspires to the degree of Doctor, is obliged to do) undergo another ex- amination on obstetrical subjects. There are some surgeons and accoucheurs that, with-101 out taking the degree of Doctor, get the permission of practising by easier means; however, their body and privileges are so small and insignificant, and they are themselves so little respected, that it is hardly necessary to mention them. Now, Sir, this is in general the course in Leipzig. Perhaps in a very short time I shall be able to make you acquainted with the course in Berlin or Goettingen, which in general is quite the same, and may perhaps differ from the above-described in the forms. I am, Sir, Your most obedient Servant, C. M. Kind. 1, North Buildings, Wednesday, 14th of March.102 APPENDIX, No. X. Course of Study, fyc. at Berlin. The following. Sir, is the procedure in Berlin, of ob- taining the rights and privileges of a medical or sur- gical practitioner. The candidate writes a short dissertation, and defends it against his opponents, whereupon he has the degree and title of Doctor, but without having the permission of practising', or any other right. In order to obtain these, he must undergo the following trials : 1. Extemporale Chirurgicum. An urn is presented to the candidate, out of w hich he takes a ticket on which the name of any surgical operation is written. This he must immediately demonstrate, namely, the indications to it, the contraindications against it, the methods of per- forming it, and the necessary instruments. 2. Extemporale Anatom. Primum. The candidate must describe an osteological subject. 3. Extemporale Anatom. Secundum. He demon- strates a splanchnological subject. In both cases he takes a ticket, inscribed with the name of the subject to be de- monstrated, out of an urn, which is presented to him. 4. The candidate writes a treatise on a surgical sub- ject which is given to him; on the day of examination he reads it, performing the operation on a cadaver, and thendemonstrates the situs viscerum in one of the three cavi- ties. 5. Demonstrate et Praeparatio Plexus Alicujus Ner- vorum. 6. The candidate now applies to the first surgeon of the Charite, under the superintendence of whom he un- dertakes the treatment of two surgical patients. He then immediately writes the historia morbi, namely, Anamnesis, (history), Status praetens, Diagnosis, Aetiologia, (causes), Prognosis,Therapia, (treatment). This he continues dur- ing fourteen days : in this time he visits the patients every day, once or twice in company of the first surgeon. On the last of these fourteen days he must give his opinion of the diagnosis morbi of ten or twelve patients, and dress them. 7. The same is done with medical patients, which he must treat under the superintendence of the first phy- sician during about six weeks. 8. Examen Rigorosum. The candidate is examined on surgery, medicine, therapy, materia medica, medicina forensis, &c. &c. by the first professors of the faculty. 0. If the candidate has the intention to practise mid- wifery, he must prove, by written testimony, that he has studied midwifery, and that he himself has delivered two or more women. He then writes a treatise on an ob- stetrical subject, and undergoes an examination of three hours, on midwifery, obstetrical operations, and the dis- eases of children and women, and makes deliveries on the figure. For all these examinations are required about three or four months. Every body who will practise as phy- sician or as surgeon in Prussia, must undergo these ex- aminations. These are not so rigorous, nor is their num- ber so great for the lower class of practitioners, the body104 of whom being, however, not respectable nor numerous, ouo’ht here not to be considered. © No time is fixed for the study of medicine and sur- gery ; but it may easily be seen that at least four years of persevering study are required to learn as much as to get through all these examinations.APPENDIX, No. XI. Course of Study in the Medical School of Vienna, and Nature of the Examinations for Medical and Sur- gical Degrees: from the Quarterly Journal of Fo- reign Medicine and Surgery, Vol.l. Art. III. [The whole of this article, and of Article VII. in the second number of the same Journal, which contain a detailed description of the several hospitals, lectures, and various arrangements connected with medical and surgical education in Vienna, deserve the atten- tive perusal and consideration of all who take an in- terest in the cultivation and diffusion of that kind of knowledge, and particularly of those who may be employed to form or reform public institutions de- voted to such objects. It will be found that respect- ing the mode of “ promoting sound knowledge,” the most opposite notions prevail in London and Vienna.] “ In order to be admitted a student of medicine in an Austrian University, it is necessary that the candidate should lay before the director of medical study, certifi- cates of his having studied philosophy for three years in a Lyceum. Under philosophy are comprehended the Latin and Greek languages, history, mathematics, na- tural and moral philosophy, and religion. The school- year in Vienna begins with November, and ends with106 August. The course of medical study extends to five years, and comprehends the following lectures: First year : 1. Introduction to Medico-Chirurgical Study, and Natural History, by Professor Von Scherer. 2. Anatomy, by Professor Mayer. 3. Botany, by Pro- fessor Joseph Von Jacquin. Second year: 1. Physiology, by Professor Prochaska. 2. General Chemistry, by Professor Joseph Von Jacquin. Third year: 1. General Pathology and Therapeutics, by Professor Hartmann. 2. Midwifery, by Professor Boer. 3. Materia Mediea et Chirurgica, by Professor Hartmann. 4. General and special Pathology of external Diseases, by ProfessorVon Rudtorffer. 5. Ophthalmology, by Professor Prochaska. 6. Demonstration of Surgical Instruments and Bandages, by Professor Von Rudtorffer. Fourth year : 1. Special Therapeutics of Internal Dis- eases, by Professor Von Hildenbrand. 2. Clinic for In- ternal Diseases, by Professor Von Hildenbrand. 3. Ve- terinary Medicine, by the Director of the veterinary school. Fifth year: 1. Special Therapeutics of Internal Dis- eases, by Professor Von Hildenbrand. 2. Clinic for In- ternal Diseases, by Professor Von Hildenbrand. 3. Me- dical Jurisprudence, by Professor Bernt. 4. Medical Po- lice, by Professor Bernt. The students of medicine, a class who in Vienna are strictly distinguished from the students of surgery,* are not obliged to attend the following lectures: * This observation probably applies only to the inferior class of country surgeons afterwards described; since it is expressly stated further on that, for other surgeons, the course of education is nearly the same as for physicians, the difference apparently being that the latter are exempted from certain branches of study, which are required of the former.107 1. Practical Surgery, by Professor Kern. 2. Practical Ophthalmology, by Professor Beer. 3. General Patho- logy, Therapeutics, and Materia Medica, by Professor Herrmann. 4. Special Therapeutics of Internal Diseases, by Professor Raimann. Such are the ordinary lectures on medicine in the University of Vienna. Those indeed of Professors Von Hildenbrand, Kern, Beer, and Raimann, are delivered in the General Hospital. For none of the above lectures is any fee paid by those who are enrolled as students in the University. The expense of enrollment is fifteen paper- guldens half-yearly, which at the present depreciated state of the Austrian paper-money, is about nine shil- lings. For the lectures and clinic of Professor Beer, strangers pay twenty-five paper-guldens yearly. The lectures of Professors Herrmann and Raimann are de- signed for candidates in surgery, and are seldom attended by students of medicine. The following are accounted extraordinary lectures: I. Diseases of Women and Children, by Professor Boer. 2. Philosophical and Physical Knowledge neces- sary for Surgeons, by Professor Pissling. 3. Duties of those who attend the Sick, by Professor Schmidt, For these lectures a small fee is paid. Those of Pro- fessor Schmidt are delivered on the Sunday evenings. The lectures of Professor Prochaska on Physiology, and of Professors Hartmann and Von Hildenbrand, are given in Latin : the others in German. The students of practical anatomy carry on their dis- sections in the University. To foreigners, subjects are supplied at the price of seven paper-guldens. They are brought from the General Hospital, but are not so plenti- ful as in the dissecting rooms of Paris. All dissection in the General Hospital is at present strictly forbidden ;108 but it is not unfrequent to obtain leave to dissect in the Military Hospital, which is closely adjoining to the ge- neral one, whence the dead bodies are furnished. In all the public courses of medicine and surgery, an examination of the enrolled students is held by the seve- ral professors every half-year, in presence of one or more of the other office-bearers of the University. In order to be admitted to examination for a degree in medicine, the candidate must produce certificates of having acquitted himself respectably in three semestral examinations, of having completed his fifth year of study, and of having publicly treated within the last half-year two patients in the clinic for internal diseases, the cases of which patients he must at the same time present to the faculty, written in Latin. He who aspires to the degree ofMagister Chirurgiee, a rank analogous to that of member of one of our Col- leges, is obliged to follow nearly the same course of study as the candidate for a degree in medicine. It is different in regard to the common civil and country surgeons, as they are called. These study only two years ; and so far from being required, are scarcely admitted to attend the lectures and clinic of Professor Von Hildenbrand, or the lectures in Latin of Professors Prochaska and Hart- mann. Neither in Austria, nor, so far as we have seen, in any part of Germany, is this class of surgeons respect- able. They are inferior to the officiers de sante of France, still retain the helmet of Mambrino, and execute at once the duties of barbers and surgeons. One of the public examinations for the degree of master in surgery consists in the performance of two ope- rations on the dead body. The operations are determined by lot. The candidate describes the surgical anatomy of the parts, lays down the indications for the operations, r .-r-'-'r iir».r^r TTBT ■ _109 performs them upon the dead body which is before him, and applies the proper baudages. Degrees are granted by the University of Vienna in Ophthalmology. Doctors in medicine and masters in surgery are considered as having taken this degree; but no one can publicly practise as an oculist in the Austrian states, who has not attended the lectures of Professor Prochaska, and undergone an examination by him on the diseases of the eye.APPENDIX, No. XII. Course of Medical and Surgical Study, and of Exami- nation for Degrees in the University of Maryland. A gentleman, who had graduated in the above-men- tioned university, addressed the following letter to the author of these pages, in answer to an application for information on the subject. My dear Sir, In compliance with your request, I enclose for your perusal a short account of the present rules and regulations in the medical schools of the United States: they have been enacted by the professors, for the pur- pose of “ promoting sound medical and chirurgical know- ledge,” and likewise from the anxiety they entertain for the “ common weal.” It is singular that the heads of science in London and America should differ so materially in the meaning they attach to those phrases. I state facts, and leave the task of commenting on them to those gen- tlemen who are better qualified than I am to do justice to the subject. I have taken the description from the university of Maryland, in which I was educated; but it is applicable, I believe, to all the schools of medicine in ££* NT, niMimtir" Hr——r rrar-t~ -Ill America, as they are ail formed upon the same model-— ********* * ********** Your obedient and obliged servant, J. P. To Wm. Lawrence, Esq. Whitehall Place. The course of lectures in the university of Maryland continues for four months, commencing on^ the first of November, and terminating on the last of February. The medical professorships are seven in number, viz. anatomy, surgery, chemistry, practice of medicine, insti- tutes of medicine, materia medica, and obstetrics. Daily lectures are delivered on the four first subjects: those on the institutes, materia medica, and midwifery, are given only three times a week. The anatomical lectures are not confined to the healthy structure of the parts, but embrace likewise the changes produced by the operation of disease. Those morbid changes are amply illustrated by the preparations in the valuable museum which was left to Professor Pattison by the late Allan Burns, and by many others, which have been added to the collection since the death of that anatomist. Before a student can present himself for examination, he is required to attend two courses of lectures on ana- tomy, surgery, chemistry, and practice of medicine; and one course on materia medica, midwifery, and the insti- tutes of medicine; but, as gratuitous admission is granted to all the lectures, after an attendance of two courses, the majority of students attend three years at the university, before they present themselves for examination.112 Two courses of dissections are likewise required by the Faculty. The dissecting rooms are large and spa- cious, and well supplied with subjects, at the moderate charge of four dollars (eighteen shillings) a-piece.—- During the last session of my attendance at that school, above 120 subjects were brought into the rooms in the short space of four months. If a student should have attended two sessions of lectures in any other university of the country, his tickets are considered by the professors in the Maryland school as equivalent to their own, and he is admitted gratuitously to all their lectures. This privilege is not confined to the students of the native universities, but is extended to those gentlemen who have studied in any foreign school of reputation, especially in those of London, Paris, or Edinburgh. If an English surgeon should wish to settle in America, immediate examination is granted to him hy the Faculty of Medicine; the professors do not enforce an attendance on any of their lectures; if he should wish, however, to gain admission to any of them, for the purpose of acquiring a knowledge of the diseases of the country, he receives his tickets gratis. The graduates of all the American schools study two years under a preceptor, before they commence their university education; so that their term of probationary study may be said, in all, to include five years. There is an infirmary attached to the university of Maryland, containing 100 beds, which was erected and is now maintained solely at the expense of the Faculty. This infirmary was built for the purpose of affording clinical instruction to the students, and no patients are admitted except those labouring under acute diseases. Every case is recorded, and the history is read, during each visit, at the bed-side of the patient. The changes inm the symptoms are pointed out by the physician, or sur- geon, in attendance; and, should an alteration of treat- ment be required, the reasons for this change are like- wise explained. Four clinical lectures are delivered weekly, by the surgeon and physician; two on the me- dical, and two on the surgical cases. The sick are nursed by the sisters of charity, a sect of nuns, from a convent near Baltimore, who attend the patients from the purest motives of benevolence; and who, in conformity to the vows of their order, receive no remuneration for their services, with the exception of board and lodging. It is unnecessary to state that these devotees are much interested in the comfort and well- being of the patients, and afford them closer and more anxious attention than can be expected from hired nurses. Besides this infirmary, there is a hospital in Baltimore, unconnected with the university, which contains from 250 to 300 beds. This hospital is attended, in the summer season, by most of the students residing in Baltimore. The examination of the candidates for degrees com- mences on the first of March, immediately after the ter- mination of the lectures; and is conducted by the seven professors, each in his own department. If the candidate should pass this ordeal, he is required to write a Thesis on some medical or surgical subject. He is publicly examined on the subject of his Thesis, at the commence- ment, as it is called, which is held on the first of April. The language of his Essay is left to the choice of the student. A gold medal is presented to the author of the best Latin Thesis. If a student should be rejected by the Faculty, he is required to attend another session of lectures, before he presents himself for examination a second time. In some few cases, however, when the mind of the i114 candidate has been disturbed by agitation, illness, &c. the indulgence of another examination is granted to him by a special Act of the Medical Faculty. This* how- ever, seldom occurs—I only recollect two instances of it, during my attendance at the Maryland University. The education and the degree are the same for the practice of medicine and surgery.V .1 K *APPENDIX. No. XIII. Comparative Tleic of the Studies required by various public Bodies, in this and other Countries, before a Candidate can be admitted to Examination ; and of the Nature and Number of the Examinations. Preliminary 1 Qualifications, j Di(ration of \ Studies. i Subjects ) to be j- Studied. ) ROYAL COLLEGE OF SCR' GEONS, LONDON. Sixteen months.* SOCIETY OF APOTHECA- RIES, LONDON. Knowledge of Latin. One medical season.^ / Three courses^- , I of lectures. 1. Anatomy. ^ of ^ dissections. Surgery..one course. 3. Hospital attendance for one year. Anatomy, 1 Two courses 2. Physiology, / of lectures. 3. Theory and practice of me- dicine—Two courses. 4. Chemistry—One. 5. Materia medica—One. 6. Attendance on the medical practice of an hospital or infirmary for 6 months, or of a dispensary for 9 months. ARMY MEDICAL BOARD, LONDON. A liberal education. Those conversant with any branches of science preferred for promotion. If an apprenticeship has been served, one year; if not, four years. Surgery. ^ Anatomy. f Practical anatomy. V Twelve months. Practice of medicine. I Chemistry. ) Bofat Six -nth. Practice of medicine. ) 0ne y^r, if previously V apprenticed ; it not, surgery, j three years. Preference given to those who have studied— Diseases of the skin, eye. Mental derangement. Midwifery, in public establishments. 1. Anatomy 18 months. 2. Actual Dissections .. G 3. Chemistry G 4. Materia medica fi 5. Surgery 18 6. Theory of medicine.. 12 Practice 12 8. Midwifery 6 9. Hospital attendance.. 12 BOARD OF ADMIRALTY, LONDON. Classical education. Knowledge of Latin. Eighteen months. Three years; or two years, in the case of a previous apprenticeship for three years to a regular practi- tioner. 1. Anatomy. .. 2. Chemistry. 1 3. Materia medica. / 4. Institutions of medicine. \|| 5. Practice of medicine. I 6. Principles and practice of 1 surgery. J 7. Clinical surgery. 8. Midwifery. 9. Practical anatomy. 10. Attendance on a public hospital for a year. ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS. EDINBURGH. 1. Physics. 2. Chemistry. 3. Botany. 4-. Materia medica. 5. Pharmacy. G. Anatomy—Dissections. 7. Physiology. 8. Medical pathology. 9. clinical lectures. 10. History of medicine. 11. Surgical pathology. 12. Surgical clinical lectures. 13. Operative surgery. 14. Hygiene (art of preserving health). 15. Accouchemens. 16. Legal medicine. FACULTY OF MEDICINE, PARIS. Bachelorship in letters gained by examination in the classics, history, A classical education, geography, rhetoric. Bachelorship in sciences—by exa- Knowledge of Latin and mination in mathematics, physics, Greek, natural history, botany, chemistry, &c. UNIVERSITY OF LEIPZIG. Four years. Four, five, or more years. Philosophy. Natural philosophy. Chemistry. Botany. Anatomy. Dissections. Comparative anatomy. Physiology. Materia medica. General pathology. Special pathology. Therapeutics. Clinical lectures on in- ternal diseases. Surgery. Clinical lectures on sur- gery. Operative surgery. Operations on dead bo- dies. Theoretical course of midwifery. Clinical 20. Medicina forensis. UNIVERSITY OF BERLIN. Uncertain; probably the same as at Leipzig. Three years in a lyceum comprehending Latin 6 Greek, history, mathe- matics, natural & moral philosophy, &. religion. Four years at least. Nearly the same as at Leipzig. Five years. 1. Introduction to medico- chirurgical study and natural history. 2. Botany. 3. General chemistry. 4. Materia medica & chi- rurgica. 5. Anatomy; dissections. 6. Physiology. 7. General pathology and therapeutics. 8. Special therapeutics of internal diseases. 9. General and special pa- thology of external diseases. 10. Practical surgery. 11. General ophthalmology 12. Practical ditto. 13. Midwifery. 14. Veterinary medicine. 15. Medical jurisprudence. 16. Medical police. 17. Surgical instruments & bandages. 18. Clinic for internal dis- 19. - external— UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND. Study of two years under a preceptor. Three years. 1. Anatomy Two seasons. 2. Dissections 3. Surgery 4. Chemistry 5. Practice of medicine.. 6. Materia medica One course. 7. Institutes of medicine.. . ■ ■ 8. Midwifery 9. Attendance on clinical medical practice and lectures. 0. Attendance on clinical surgical practice and lectures. Nature and Number ( ?f. ( Examinations. J 1. Descriptive anatomy. 2. Surgery in its more limited sense. One examination of about half an hour. 1. Translation of the Pharma- copoeia Londinensis, and of Medical Prescriptions. 2. Materia medica. 3. Medical botany. 4. Pharmaceutical chemistry. 5. 6. Anatomy & Physiology 7. Practice of medicine— One examination. Examination by the Royal Colleges of Surgeons, of London, Edinburgh, or Dublin. Examination by the Army Medical Board, on all the branches of medical science and practice. Examination by one of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons, of London, — Edinburgh, or '— Dublin. Examination by the Medical Com- missioners of the Victuallings. Board, on all the branches and points of medicine and suigery necessary in the naval service. Preference given to those acquainted with diseases of the eye ; or with any of the sciences connected with the profession •, such as Botany, Natural Philosophy. Medical Jurisprudence, &c. &c Fellows undergo four examinations on four separate days. 1. Anatomy and surgery. Anatomy and diseases of some part of the body, with the surgical ope- rations and bandages required. Materia medica, chemistry, phar- macy, uses and doses of medi- cines. 4. On a probationary Essay, com- posed by the candidate, on some part of surgery or surgical ana- tomy. Members have the same examination excepting the Essay. Five public examinations. 1. A part dissected ; Examination of two hours on ana- tomy and physiology. 2. Pathology and nosology. 3. Chemistry, pharmacy, and botany. 4. Hygiene and legal medicine. 5. Practice of medicine or surgery. A Thesis written in French or Latin, and defended before five Examiners. The candidate is questioned by twenty different Examiners. First Examination A dissertation written and (pro BacctilaurcatuJ at defended, the end of two years, of A surgical operation demon- four hours in Latin, by eight members of the fa culty. 1. Three aphorisms of Hippocrates explained ir Latin. 2. Botany. 3. Chemistry. 4. Anatomy. 5. Physiology. 6. Comparative anatomy. 7. General pathology. Second Examination (examen rigor osum) of four hours in Latin. 8. Pathology. 9. Therapeutics. 10. Surgery. 11. Midwifery. 12. Medicina forensis. 13. Composing and defend- ing a dissertatioQ on any medical subject. 14. Obstetrical examination for those who mean i to practise midwifery. strated; thesubjeetdrawn from an urn. An osteological subject de- monstrated. A splanchnological ditto ditto. A treatise on a surgical sub- ject; the operation per- formed on the dead body. The viscera demonstrated ir one of the cavities. Two surgical patients treat- ed; and the histories of the cases written. Ten or twelve cases dressed; and the diagnosis morbi explained. Medical patients treated. Examcn rigorosnm by the first professors of the fa- culty. Additional examination on midwifery, and diseases of women and children ; and delivery on the figure, for those who are to prac- tise midwifery. These examinations occupy 3 or 4 months. Half - yearly examinations by the professors, during the whole course of study. Treatment of cases in the clinics. Performance of operations on the dead body, with demonstration of the ana- tomy, and application ol dressings. N. B. The above particulars/ appear incidentally in the Quarterly Journal, from which the account of this school is taken. The ex- aminations are not fully and professedly described. Examination in all branches of medi- cine and surgery, by the seven professors of the university. Composition of a Thesis. * This is the time necessary for performing the studies specifically required by the College. Vet, according to the first rule, the candidate must have spent six years in the acquisition of professional knowledge. As the remainder of the six years, when the sixteen months have been subtracted, may be, and often is, spent in compounding medicines, it cannot be considered as directed to useful and efficient study* •f A course occupies a little more than three months, so that two are given in the winter season. J This is in addition to an apprenticeship of five years to an apothecary or surgeon. Separate and distinct courses, for three winter sessions, from October to April, inclusive.115 APPENDIX, No. XIV. Royal College of Surgeons in London. Observations in Refutation of Charges, publicly made by certain Members of the College, against it’s legally constituted Authorities. It is asserted, that the College lias not performed those duties for which it was incorporated. That this assertion is unfounded, will be acknow- ledged by all reflecting and unprejudiced persons who compare the present state of surgery throughout the country, with that, which existed when the College re- ceived its charter, in 1800; for it appears that the in- 1. creased respectability of the profession, may be prin- cipally attributed to the acts and regulations of the College.—This advancement may be mainly ascribed to the more extended education which has been progres- sively required of the candidates for it’s diploma,—to the zeal and talents of it’s professors in displaying and communicating, by public lectures, a scientific know- ledge of the subjects connected with the healing art,— and to the labour and time devoted to the explanation of the contents of it’s museum, by which a strong desire for increase of knowledge has been excited. i 2116 The inquiry into the professional education and at- tainments of candidates, has been rendered more strict in proportion to the general increase of knowledge. During one period of the late war, when the appli- cants for examination were unexpectedly and unprece- dently numerous, in consequence of the demands of the 2. public service, many candidates were necessarily exa- mined at the same Court,—hut since the peace, not more candidates have been admitted to examination at any Court, than could he examined in an ample and satis- factory manner; and for some time past, each candidate for the diploma, has been separately examined, in the presence and hearing of the whole Court: which is now the established practice. The Examiners have so frequently referred candi- dates to a continuance of their studies, as to induce stu- dents in general, to think seriously of their examination, and to prepare themselves for it, by a proportionate degree of diligence. 3. Had inquiry been made, it would have appeared, that the Examiners have not any pecuniary interest in the admission of candidates as members,—and it cannot be improper to mention, that the remuneration received by the Examiners, is a very inadequate recompense for the time and labour bestowed upon the execution of their arduous and important duties. There is no profession into which dishonest and dis- honourable persons, have not at times gained admission,— but the Council are not aware of a single instance of an empiric having been admitted as a member,—and not until lately has it been understood, that the College pos- sesses the power of removing any member who has been guilty of disgraceful conduct. It has been made a subject of complaint, that certili-117 cates of summer courses of lectures are not received by the Court of Examiners. That certificates are not indis- criminately received from every anatomical teacher, and that certificates of attendance on provincial hospitals are not admitted by the Court; and such regulations have been censured as unjust bye-laws of the College. The Council have in the first instance, to correct this error. There are no bye-laivs on these subjects; these 4. are regulations of the Court of Examiners. The Coun- cil have been assured by the Court of Examiners, that so many certificates of attendance on lectures had been pre- sented to them, purporting to be signed by teachers, wholly unknown to them, as to render it imperative to define the certificates which in their judgment it would be proper, with a view to the public good and the respect- ability of the profession, to acknowledge and to receive. The Council believe, that not any persons except the 6. Court of Examiners are able to judge correctly on this subject; and while they wish to correct the erroneous supposition of the regulations in question being bye-laws of the College, they cannot but give credit to the Court of Examiners for the most pure and conscientious mo- tives,—and for an earnest desire to promote the dignity of the profession ; and necessarily the welfare of the community,—in the legitimate exercise of their discre- tion on these subjects. The Court of Examiners, anxious that students should attend instructors capable of giving them enlarged and scientific views of their profession, knew not how they could obtain from distant places any evidence of the teacher having, himself, received a liberal professional education, but by the means which they have adopted; yet, notwithstanding, such regulations, it cannot be doubted that any member oj' the College possessing in f118 an eminent degree the requisite qualifications for be- coming a teacher of anatomy, physiology, and patho- logy,—which are united in the recognized schools,— would so distinguish himself, as to justify the admission of his certificates. The regulations of the College must always change with the circumstances of the times. The subject of attendance on provincial hospitals had repeatedly engaged the consideration of the Court of Examiners; but with every respect for, and the highest opinion of, the medical officers belonging to most of these excellent establishments, the Council would witness with regret the indiscriminate admission of such certificates. The Court of Examiners, have, under certain condi- tions, recognized attendance on the practice of some of those hospitals; and, the Council are of opinion, that it would injure the cause of chirurgical science, were the Court of Examiners to be controuled in the exercise of their discretion on this subject. In reference to the complaint, of the Museum not being more freely and frequently opened to the public, and of the want of a catalogue; answers to such accusa- tions are contained in the triennial reports from the Board of Curators to the Council, in the last of which is the fol- lowing summary of proceedings, with respect to the cata- logue. “ The following recital of facts will shew the Council how solicitous the Curators have always been, that the collection should be properly explained. “ When the Hunterian Collection was received by this College, it was accompanied by two catalogues; one, explanatory of the preparations in the gallery; the other, of the morbid preparations. These had been compiled by Mr. Clift, under the direction of Sir Everard Home, from old catalogues, formed under the superintendance119 of Mr. Hunter; as is proved by his hand-writing in many parts of them. The transcript must have appeared to the Curators, and must be allowed, by every one, to contain a very excellent and perfect account of Mr. Hunter’s views and opinions in the formation of his collection; though it must also appear very deficient in the explana- tion of the individual preparations. “ No one, however, supposed until within a short time, that Mr. Hunter left any other writings of importance, explanatory of his collection, than the before-mentioned two catalogues. “ On the completion of the Museum, and the admis- sion of visitors, the want of a descriptive catalogue was soon felt and expressed; and the Board of Curators, in the year 1813, prepared a printed syllabus, to gratify scientific inquirers. “ The Curators also consulted Dr. Shaw, who, at the instance of the Board, prepared a third catalogue of ob- jects in the department of natural history. “ A descriptive catalogue of the preparations, which was earnestly desired by the trustees, has ever been a desideratum of great interest and consideration to the Board of Curators, as may be seen by its minutes. “ The Board regarded Sir Everard Home, as execu- tor of Mr. Hunter, to be the person most proper, and best qualified to undertake the task of preparing the cata- logue; which he repeatedly engaged to do. “ At length, in 1816, it was proposed that all the Curators should become joint labourers, in this great work ; when Sir Everard Home declared, that it was his special duty, and that he would admit of no participation in its performance. The result of his labours was the production of a Synopsis, which, doubtless, the members of the Council have perused.“ When in 1817 Sir Everard Home became a trustee, be resigned the office of Curator; and the Board, anxious for the completion of a descriptive catalogue of the con- tents of the Museum, resolved to engage the Conservator in preparing one under their own superintendance. “ In order to allow him more time for this undertaking, the Board appointed his son to be his assistant in his or- dinary duties. They directed that the specimens of mon- strosity should be removed from the closet in which they were arranged, that it might be appropriated, during the necessary time, to the receipt of books, papers, and other things subservient to the preparation of the catalogue. “ The Board decided, that the contents of the gallery should be arranged in two divisions; each containing sub- divisions, which sub-divisions should also contain series and sub-series. “ The Board, further, appointed Sir William Blizard, Mr. Cline, and Mr. Abernethy, to be a sub-committee for the special purpose of superintending the formation of the catalogue; to report to the Board, from time to time, the progress made in it; with such observations relating’ thereto, as they should consider proper: which sub- committee has presented to the Board the description of the first sub-division of the gallery, comprehending 17 series, containing 261 preparations; which was approved by the Board, and also by the trustees. “ When, however, the Conservator began his task of preparing the catalogue, he expressed the wish to obtain some of Mr. Hunter’s manuscripts; and thus did the Board of Curators learn, for the first time, the extent and nature of the manuscripts left by Mr. Hunter, with rela- tion to his collection. “ The Curators, on applying to Sir Everard Home, were informed by him, that he had burned all Mr. Hun-121 ter’s manuscripts, in consequence of a promise made to Mr. Hunter, to that effect. “ Amongst these manuscripts were ten volumes, in folio; viz. nine on the anatomy of animals, and one on vegetables. That Mr. Hunter considered these books to be valuable, and not otherwise than creditable to himself, may be inferred from three of them being* placed on the table beside him, when his portrait was painted by Sir Joshua Reynolds. “ It is said, that Sir Everard Home has even burned Mr. Hunter’s manuscript-lectures, which he read to his class. But the Curators cannot believe that Mr. Hunter could intend that these works should be burned, as un- important manuscripts. It must, therefore, always re- main a subject of deep regret, that Sir Everard Home should have felt himself bound by his promise to Mr. Hunter, to have carried destruction to the extent to which he is said to have done. Yet Sir Everard Home has not felt the same obligation to destroy all the writings on morbid anatomy; for the Curators have obtained, through the interposition of the trustees, two folio volumes, and two solanders, of cases and dissections, explanatory of a considerable number of the morbid preparations. “ These books contain a careful record of the symp- toms and effects of disease during life; and the alterations of structure produced, as ascertained by examination, after death. They are highly creditable to Mr. Hunter, as ex- pressing that thirst for knowledge, which led him con- stantly to seek it by means which we know to be the most certain, but also the most tedious, laborious, disgusting, and unostentatious.” The want of a catalogue, as explained in that report, is, in the opinion of the Council, a most satisfactory rea- son why the Museum has not hitherto been more freely122 opened to the profession, and why it cannot be for some time, admitting the completion of that catalogue to be of such paramount importance as the Council deem it to be. It may be further observed, that the study of com- parative anatomy had been formerly so little prosecuted in this country, that, though many persons were con- sulted, none could aid in giving a description of the in- dividual preparations in the Hunterian Collection. The Conservator has, however, for a considerable time been engaged in such researches and inquiries, as have enabled him, not only to give an exact account of each prepara- tion, but also to explain Mr. Hunter’s intentions in the formation of his collection ; and the more the time of the Conservator shall be occupied in explaining the contents of the Museum to visitors, the longer, necessarily, must the completion of the catalogue be retarded. With respect to the library, it’s formation has been the act of the College, and is intended to aid the profes- sional inquiries of it’s members, for which purpose it will, when in a proper state, be opened. It may be added, that of the numerous applications made by members, for permission to refer to publications therein, every one has been most readily complied with; and the same may be observed of applications to examine and to make drawings from preparations in the Museum. With regard to the supposed indignity offered to the members at large, by their being admitted to the theatre by a door at the back of the building; the Council,-— aware that any want of respect to it’s members would be a failure of respect to the institution itself,—did not ima- gine that umbrage would be taken by such an arrange- ment; at the same time, they regret that the present con- struction of the building precludes the practicability of an alteration.123 It is proper to observe, that no official complaint or remonstrance on this subject, has ever been made to the Council.—Some years since, indeed, it was mentioned to the Board of Curators; upon which the members, during one course of lectures, were admitted to their seats from Lincoln’s Inn Fields, through the Museum.—This mode of access, however, was found to be inconvenient to them- selves ; many were disposed to loiter in the Museum; the dust, occasioned thereby, was found to be injurious to the collection; in consequence of which, the present arrange- ment was adopted; certainly with a view to the comfort and convenience of the members, and for the preserva- tion of the preparations.—When the theatre was built, the great influx of persons into the profession, which has since taken place, could not have been anticipated; and it was then thought that the building would be more than adequate to the accommodation of all who would attend. It is represented,—that the constitution of the College has been the cause of the alleged injuries and grievances. The evident object of this representation, is the sub- version of the present government of the College, and the substitution of elections to offices of controul and 7# responsibility, by members who for the most part exer- cise the professions of apothecaries and accoucheurs There can be little doubt that in the event of such an in- novation, the Institution would soon cease to be a College of Surgeons or of Surgery, and a system of continual in- trigue and cabal amongst the profession in general would be introduced. The constituted authorities of the College are con- scious that they have uniformly exerted themselves to increase the scientific knowledge and respectability of the profession; and that they have never been influenced by the unworthy motives imputed to them: had any of124 the members of the College expressed dissatisfaction at their proceedings, they would have willingly explained the reasons of their conduct, as well as their future inten- tions, and have altered whatever could have been shewn to be wrong: but when meetings have been convened to subvert the charter of the College, “ under the sanction of which,” it is said, “ injustice and tyranny have been perpetrated.”—When, at these meetings, the most dis- honourable motives have been attributed to the members of the Council, they feel it due to themselves to offer this brief, and they trust satisfactory, explanation of their conduct. By order of the Council: Edmund Belfour, Sec. Lincoln’s Inn Fields; 26th day of April, 1826. A few passages in the foregoing document are printed in italics and numbered, to save the trouble of quotiug them at length in the following remarks. It is right to observe, also, for the information of those who may be surprised at any thing in the composition and style of this document, that it has been accurately copied from the original.125 REMARKS On the “ Observations” $c. Whatever .the members and the public may think, it appears that the ‘6 constituted authorities” of the College think very well of themselves. They give themselves an excellent character, and particularly extol their own motives. How unfortunate it is that purity of motive will not change the tendency of bad measures; that good intentions will not correct the errors flowing from de- ficiency of knowledge and judgment. The council vouch for the “ pure and conscientious motives” of the exami- ners (5). Of the twenty-one persons, who compose the council, ten form the Court of Examiners. Thus this valuable compliment is paid and received by the same individuals, in their double capacity of councillors and examiners; and nothing is wanted to complete the trans- action, except that they should, in their twofold charac- ter, vote thanks to themselves, and gratefully accept them. It is not unlikely that a majority of the meeting, which adopted this document, may have been examiners; and it is possible that it may have consisted of examiners only : that the paper was written by one of the examiners is generally understood. The council take to themselves the credit of the im- provement, which surgery has undergone in this country,during the last twenty-six years, (1). For this modest assumption, no other proof is offered, than their own assertion. They advert, however, to the “ more extended education,” which they have progressively required of candidates for the diploma; which “ mainly” contri- buted to the advancement of surgery. It will be seen, by reference to the table, (Appendix, No. 18), that the course of study required by the College, and the exami- nations instituted by them, are much more confined than in any of the various instances comprised in that compa- rative view; they appear very defective, even in com- parison with the necessary qualifications for the lowest rank in the military and naval medical service, and with those required of persons intending to practise as apo- thecaries. (See the Comparative View ; p. 89.) What can have been that original education, in comparison with which the council describe the present narrow and defective system as “ more extended,” speaking of it as an improvement attained by the several steps of a slow progression? Lastly, “ the council believe that not any persons, except the Court of Examiners [that is, themselves under another name] are able to judge cor- rectly “ respecting the fitness or unfitness of those who undertake to teach anatomy and surgery,” (5). Here again we have simple assertion, the point being appa- rently considered so clear as not to require proof or il- lustration. (2, 3) The council indirectly admit that examinations, at a former period, were not conducted in “ an ample or satisfactory manner,” and state that this important duty is now more carefully executed. This admission, which is creditable to the College, must be satisfactory to the public, as acknowledgment of error is the first step to- wards improvement. It will be readily granted that127 tbe remuneration of the examiners is not too great, nor even sufficient, if the duty is adequately and faithfully performed ; but, if the examinations are neither “ ample nor satisfactory,” even a smaller recompense must be deemed more than enough. (3) If a certain sum, for instance, five guineas, be divi- ded among the examiners, for each person examined, there is a prima facie ground for representing that the exami- ners have a pecuniary interest in the number of examina- tions. However, since the money affairs of the College are so successfully concealed from the members and the public, a mistake on this point may be excused. Let it be observed that the existence of this pecuniary interest is not disproved by the Observations. (4, 5) Although the College recognizes all the pri- vate teachers, who had lectured previously to the pro- mulgation of their new restrictive code, they will not re- ceive the certificates of future lecturers in the same schools. Thus these establishments, raised by arduous exertion, and in some instances, at great expense, and constituting heretofore a valuable description of pro- perty, are depreciated or rendered totally unsaleable, in Case it should be wished, from death, infirmity, or other considerations, to transfer them to successors. They, whose property is thus injured or destroyed, have the satisfaction of learning that they suffer—not by a bye- law, but by—a regulation. A kind of exception to the general exclusion is mentioned, (6); but it is expressed in that peculiar College style, which disdains clearness, and frequently defies comprehension. How can a “ mem- ber of the College possess in an eminent degree the requisite qualifications for becoming' a teacher of ana- tomy, physiology, and pathology,—which are united in the recognized schools?” always remembering that these128 recognized schools, as described by themselves, are Lon- don, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen. (7) The general practitioners, who are here mentioned in a manner bordering on contempt, compose nineteen twentieths, or a larger proportion, of the College of Sur- geons. If they are held in so little esteem, why are they admitted as members, and w hy is the College diploma sold to them? It may be feared, from the tenour of these “Observations,” that the council think too favour- ably of themselves to be inclined to profit by example. Otherwise they might find, that in the Royal Colleges of Edinburgh and Dublin, the officers are elected by the members at large, without producing “ a system of con- tinual intrigue and cabalthat those establishments are well managed on that plan, and have long ago enforced a course of study, and adopted a plan of examinations, in comparison with which “ the more extended education progressively required” by the London College, cuts a very contemptible figure. We now learn, for the first time, in an official form, the disastrous intelligence, that Mr. Hunter’s manuscripts have perished ; that they have been wilfully and delibe- rately burned by his brother-in-law and executor, Sir Everard Home. Our regret for this irreparable loss is heightened by learning that the “ manuscript lectures, which Mr. Hunter read to his class” were involved in the destruction, and that the wrritings were altogether so extensive, that ten volumes in folio on the anatomy of animals and vegetables are spoken of only as forming a part. A promise made to Mr. Hunter, to “ burn all his manuscripts,” is alleged in justification of this act, so injurious to the cause of anatomical and physiological science, and so detrimental to the important national col- lection, which the perpetrator was more especially boundm to watch over and protect; not only from respect to the memory and fame of his deceased friend and near con- nexion, but from regard to the interests of science, and in execution of his duty as one of the curators of the Museum. The council observe, “ that Mr. Hunter con- sidered these books to be valuable, and not otherwise than creditable to himself, may be inferred from three of them being [having been] placed on the table beside him, when his portrait was painted by Sir Joshua Rey- nolds they add, in respect to the manuscript lectures, that they “cannot believe that Mr. Hunter could intend th ese* works should be burned, as unimportant manu- scripts.” We find also that, although the alleged pro- mise was “ to burn all Mr. Hunter's manuscriptsit has not been hitherto executed, and that two folio vo- lumes, with other papers on morbid anatomy, have for- tunately escaped the flames. In thus plainly stating their opinion that Mr. Hunter could not have intended that his manuscripts should be destroyed, in implying, and more than intimating their belief that no such promise as that alleged by Sir E. Home could have been exacted or given, and conse- quently leading us to infer, that this lamentable destruc- * That the council have judged rightly on this point may be proved by undeniable authority. ee Mr. Hunter now began to prepare the present work for the press, and intended as soon as it was in the hands of the public, to give a course of practical lectures in surgery, for which he had many years been collecting materials; these were so far advanced, that another winter, had he lived, would have finished them. The materials of these lectures having come into my hands; that they may not be entirely lost to the public, I mean to avail myself of them# and am preparing my arrangements for that purpose.”—Life of Mr Hunter by Sir E. Home ; prefixed to the Treatise on the Blood, &c. p. 36. K130 tion of materials so important in reference to the expla- nation of the collection, was the spontaneous and gratuit- ous act of Mr. Hunter’s brother-in-law and executor, the council make so serious a charge against that individual, who holds the high offices of examiner and trustee of the collection, that, in justice to him as well as to themselves, and for the satisfaction of the public, they are bound to state, most, full}7, all particulars calculated to elucidate this unfortunate and suspicious transaction. A few points may be mentioned, on which further detail is absolutely necessary. Did the writings in question, exclusive of the lectures, form part of the property purchased at the public ex- pense of Mr. Hunter’s executors? Purchases of this kind usually include catalogues, and such other descrip- tive accounts, as are necessary to explain the several articles, which otherwise lose much of their value. Yet there seem to be doubts in the present instance; since “ no one supposed, until within a short time, that Mr. Hunter left any other writings of importance, explanatory of his collection, than the before-mentioned two cata- logues.” Still, whatever opinion may be formed on its legal aspect, the moral view of the subject will be the same; every one will consider that the sale of such a property includes the writings explanatory of the col- lection, and that, if their existence had been known, their delivery would have been required by express stipulation. The representation that the College did not even know that such writings existed “ until within a short time,” seems very strange. Where had they b< en de- posited from the time of Mr. Hunter’s death to that of their destruction? Had they not been, together with the Museum, for several years, in Castle-street, Leicester-131 square? Was not Mr. Clift well acquainted with their existence and contents? If the “constituted authori- ties” of the College knew nothing about them, m iglit they not have known, if they had inquired? and must they not necessarily have known, if they had undertaken the formation of a descriptive catalogue, as soon as they became possessed of this invaluable scientific treasure, or even immediately after it had been arranged in its present situation? If we should entertain the same doubt, which the council have so clearly expressed, re- specting the promise alleged to have been made to Mr. Hunter, various points immediately suggest themselves, as matters of inquiry; and the questions are such, as that body can have no difficulty in answering. What was the nature, amount, and state of these manuscripts? The mechanical labour of writing out so many volumes was a great sacrifice of time; and this must have been severely felt by one, whose avocations were so numerous and important, as those of Mr. Hunter. To take this trouble, to preserve the papers thus written, to collect and bind them up into volumes, affords no indication of a wish that they should be destroyed. The very nature of the subject precludes the possibility of the ordinary mo- tives for such an injunction; and the desire which Mr. Hunter constantly manifested, to communicate freely to the public all the results of his labours, raises the strong- est presumption against his having devoted to destruc- tion these valuable papers. As Mr. Hunter’s death was sudden, the promise must have been exacted at some pre- vious period, and not under the prospect of dying; so that we are presented with the irreconcilable contradic- tion of the greatest care being taken to preserve papers, and directions given for their destruction by the same in- dividual, at one and the same time. k 2132 Was the destruction of these papers perpetrated before Sir Everard Home had completed his own vo- lumes on comparative anatomy, and finished his numer- ous contributions to the Royal Society? Were any of the destroyed papers on the subjects, which Sir Everard has treated of ? Does Mr. Hunter’s will contain any directions for an act of destruction, so injurious to the cause of physio- logical and surgical science, which he ever shewed the greatest anxiety to promote; and calculated to lessen so considerably the value of the collection, the arrangement and completion of which seem to have been latterly the great objects of his life? Had he communicated any such wish to his nephew and executor, Dr. Baillie, or to any other person ? Did Sir Everard Home ever mention to his co-executor, or to any other person, his promise to destroy these manuscripts ? If he felt the obligation so imperative, as to supersede all the public considerations which so powerfully forbade the act, why did lie delay it from the time of Mr. Hunter’s death (1793) to the year 1823? a delay which, from the uncertainty of health and other contingencies, might very probably have frustrated the performance of the promise. Did SirE. Home, before doing the deed, consult with his co-executor, Dr. Baillie ? Did he do it before or after the lamented death of that amiable, upright, and honour- able character? If before, how long before ? If after, how soon after? The exact date of the conflagration is important in many points of view; no doubt it can be furnished, since it is understood that the quantity of papers destroyed was so great, that the escape of burning fragments from the chimney caused an alarm of fire, in consequence of which the dwelling of Sir Everard was actually entered by the firemen. The “ Observations”J33 lead us indirectly to infer, that this calamitous occurrence took place in 1817; but that surely cannot be correct, and there can hardly be a doubt that it will ultimately be found to have happened, either after the death of Dr. Baillie, or during the hopeless period of his last illness. FINIS. Printed by J. Mallett, Wardour Street, Soho, London./ « ' :■ • ■ t ■ ' u? \,K • • • - , II : ; ' ! '■ ' : s < ■ • ■ • ‘ 1 i '. ■' '■■■ - ' ; ■ • . . : ; ' ' - : 'I \ f « " \, y ’ I / ( « .—