DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 23 whether such relaxations were to be viewed as pathological or natural ? An opportunity soon occurred, after the dissection of the seal described above, to put some of these questions to the test of direct observation. A middle-aged woman, who had died of flooding following delivery, was brought into the Practical Rooms : the pelvis was of full dimensions. On ex- amining its articulations, they were found to be all relaxed; the bones could be made to slide over each other. The dissection was shewn to the class, and compared with that of the seal, whose skeleton was in the museum; the opinions, likewise, of several distin- guished accoucheurs in town were asked : they all declared the relaxation lo be the effect of one of two causes: it was either, said they, the result of putrefaction after death, or of a dis- eased or pathological condition of the pelvis. On consulting the published works of a most distinguished surgeon and accoucheur (Mr. Burns, of Glas- gow), I found that he also maintained the doctrine, that when relaxation of the articulations of the pelvis did take place during delivery, it was a patholo- gical and not a healthy process. Since 1825 and 1826, I have now had an opportunity of examining care- fully the pelves of five women of differ- ent ages who have died soon after de- livery, and having found in all of these a relaxation of the articulations of the pelvis to a greater or less extent, but always remarkable, I feel disposed to think the process a regular or healthy one, and not pathological. In conclusion, I trust it has been made apparent that the great laws of transcendental anatomy and physiology, even admitting them to be not yet very fully established, are yet exten- sively and happily applicable to human anatomy and physiology : certain devi- ations of the pelvis, for example, from its normal and specific form, have been shewn to be merelif a persistence of its fattal shape; and this shape again, being the ti/pe of shape in every mam- mal, the deformation gives to the adult pelvis thus constituted the shape at once of the human fojtal and quadruped pel- vis. Or, to express the generalization as a law, perhaps we may say, " the laws regulating the growth of specific forms are the antithesis of the laws presiding over transcendental forms; the one bestows individuality on the species, the other struggles to reduce all to one type; as the one prevails, the specific form is preserved ; with the predomi- nance of the other, a destruction of all speciality exists : we call these laws of type deformatinglaws, because they are opposed to our ideas of species, and to the obvious endeavours of nature to maintain this struggle and to perpetuate species. WitsoN & Ogilvy, 57, Skinner Street, Snowliill, T<onilon.