DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 13 and elsewhere, are, I think, bound to oflersome explanation of these varieties, seeing that they object in toto to the doctrines of " unity of organiisation," and, indeed, to the transcendental anatomy of Frank, Goethe, Dumeril, and St.-Hilaire. Some plausible reason should in justice to their views be ofl'ered why the humeral artery and the median nerve should in some few in- dividuals of the human race follow the non-human arrangement; there must be some reason for this, and since they object to the doctrines of " unity of the organization" they are in justice bound to offer a substitute.* Since writing and publishing the me- moir just alluded to, I find a variety in Tiedemann's great work on the arteries somewhat analogous to the above, but affecting the course of a different vessel. In this case the interosseal artery arose from the humeral artery, about the middle of the arm ; quitting the course of the larger vessel, the intei*osseal branch made its way towards the in- ternal inter-muscular ligament, and, passing behind the supra-condyloid process, which M. Tiedemann calls an " excrescentia ossis humeri in solita," it afterwards regains its position in the bend of the elbow. No mention is made of the course of the median nerve in this instance, but it may be presumed that it followed its usual course. M. Tiedemann adds, that this variety had been seen by Ludwig, Sabatier, Monro, Hilldebrandt, and Barclay. 2. The next variety affected slightly the course of the subclavian artery, but was also connected with a variety in the arrangement of the scalenus anticus muscle. This muscle, on the right side, in the stout muscular adult in whom the pre-sternal bones were ob- served, divicted into two portions, be- twixt which the subclavian artery passed across the rib: the variety seemed to me an approach to that other more important variety in the course of the subclavian, first observed, I beheve, by a Parisian student, and pointed out by him to M. Cruveilhicr; I allude to * When my brother discovered the curious facf, that in the knee-joint of the ornithorynchus paradoxus the synovial membrane stretches com- pletely across it, forming a partition between the superior and inferior parts of the joint, or in other words two joints, 1 asked the distinguished author of the Bridgewater Treatise *' On the Hand" what purpose he supposed such a struc- ture could serve; he replied that he thought it must be to strengthen the joint I the reported passage of the subclavian artery altogether anterior to the sca- lenus anticus muscle, and close to the corresponding vein: Mr. Spence as- sures me that he has seen this most remarkable variety 07ice; the nearest approach to it I have myself observed is the passage of the artery through the scalenus, as above. The anatomy of the osseous pelvis and its connecting articulations has naturally been very frequently brought under my notice during the last twenty years, both as a teacher of human and of comparative anatomy. To the human pelvis chiefly has my attention been directed, without altogether ne- glecting that of other mammals, and to it the following remarks will chiefly, but not exclusively, apply. The observations 1 have already published on the form of the pelvis as predisposing to hernia in certain per- sons ; on its want of symmetry in con- nection with the same subject, and as determining the hernia on one or other side: these observations I need not here allude to, further than referring the reader to the Edinburgh. Medical and Surgical Journal, in which he will find them: the memoir bears the title of " Observations on the Statistics of Hernia." The memoir was criticised by M. Malgaigne in a memor published by him in the Annales d'Hygiene : I pre- sume he meant to be fair enough, and therefore I do not intend replying to his memoir further than by referring those who understand the language in which my observations were written, to the observations themselves, where they will readily enough discover, 1st, that M. Malgaigne has mistaken my meaning in all the essential points; 2d, that he has given me no credit for exposing first, 1 believe, the fallacy at that time exceedingly prevalent, that hernia was a very common disease*; 3d, and (this I complain most of, if it were worth while,) that he has appro- priated to himself an idea of mine with such dexterity, as to make it quite his own ; the idea was a very simple one, but I do not remember having met with it in medical works; it was simply this, that different races of men may be liable in varying ratios to the * This fallacy was supported by Monro, A. Cooper, and a host of the first names in the pro- fession : I believe I was the first completely to expose the error.