14 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY, surgical disease—hernia. Having got hold of the idea, new to hina no doubt, and therefore " piquanteet nouvelle," it is incredible how long and loudly he dwells on the chime. But to return. Variety in form of the human pelvis. Scarcely any part of the skeleton presents a greater variety in its form than the pelvis; admitting, however, that every part of the skeleton does present its own deviations from the usual or more ordinary form. Yet in the pelvis these deviations are extremely frequent. As these varieties in form, however, are not necessarily hereditary, and are checked by intermarriage with different families, they never proceed to the length of establishing any permanent variety, either in regard to the general form, or in regard to a specific form of any particular part ; moreover, againsttheperpetuatingofsuch varieties, otherwise than by their so frequent reap- pearance, there exists the great physio- logical law of species, or of regular forma- tion, by which all the more serious de- formations are at once checked in the non-productiveness of the individual. Thus, whatever the varieties in the form of the human pelvis may be, of this we may be assured, that as yet they have failed in establishing any per- manent deviation in form from the human specific form; the lata of species is the antagonistic force to the " defor- mating powers or laws." Weber's theory, that in the various races of men the female jjelvis presents a specific form bearing a fixed relation to the form of the head of the child and the future adult, is a theory based on a final cause, and not on transcendental anatomy and physiology. It comes from a quarter (Germany) where we should least expectit, and involves another the- ory not chiming in with it, viz. that there are four or five specifically distinct races of men. I shall leave Weber to answer these objections, for they are so ; the doctrine of final causes being unphiloso- phical when employed as a substitute for a philosophical theory, and it is not proved that there are four or five distinct races of men and of women whose heads and pelves are specifically dis- tinct, remaining so throughout all ages. The few specimens we possess in those European museums I have examined of the female pelvis in the various races of men, do not furnish at all any positive grounds in support of Weber's theory, and the varieties specified by him will I think be found to occur in all the races indiscriminately. The crania of the mingled European family have almost every form; so also has the shape of the female (European) pelvis : the rounded pelvis of the Japanese female, with all its dimensions nearly equal, is not peculiar to that race; nor do we find in the negi-oes that peculiai- elongated form which this theory would lead us to anticipate; not at least so frequently, or so exclusively, as to warrant us in ascribing it to that race as a specific form. Varieties in the form of the pelvis, and its component parts. The most important in a practical point of view are the sexual difierences; but these have been so well described by so many anatomical writers as to render my saying anything regarding them here almost unnecessary. 1 allude to the sexual difierences when fully established, that is, in the adult; what I have to say on these points will arrange better with some other sections. Not unfrequently specimens are met with which at first sight are difficult to be decided on in respect to the sex ; but attentive and careful observation will, I believe, always enable the anatomist to do so, particularly if he applies the foot-rule. I have seen some good practical anatomists puzzled for a moment when they attempted a hasty decision. The different parts of the pelvis follow their own laws and formation, that is, they are not necessarily made in absolute dependence on each other : the true pelvis or excavation (cavum) may be ample for all sexual purposes, as in so many of my country-women, both English and Scotch,andyetthehaunches appear remarkably narrow ; this is owing merely to the fact, that the true pelvis and the false pelvis not being necessarily developed in the direct ratio of each other, but often the opposite, the false pelvis may be narrow, wall- sided, and its walls nearly upright, giving a remarkable want of breadth to the haunches ; whilst the true pelvis or cavum may have, and generally has, the dimensions required by nature for the due performance of the sexual functions. The opposite form to this sometimes takes place j it gives a false