DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 5 the surface of the spinal cord, the nerves,andthe ligaraentum dentatum on the one hand, and on the other to the surface of the external sac of the arach- noid ; the two by their mutual adhesion forming the loose arachnoid." Now if it be meant by the above passage that the arachnoid membrane transmits into the interior of the brain by the great cerebral fissure a mem- branous sac lining the ventricles, then it will be quite unnecessary for me to say one word in refutation of an opinion already proved false in all our ele- mentary works,—a statement involving in fact a physical impossibility : but the passage no doubt admits of another meaning, namely, that a serous sac lining the ventricles passes through the fissure of Bichat to communicate with the sub-arachnoid space there, and, through the fourth ventricle, to communicate at the anterior spinal sub-arachnoid space. Now this assertion equally involves a physical impossibility, or nearly so. Before venturing to offer any critical remarks on the passages now quoted, I shall first beg the reader to remember what I said regarding the disposition of the spinal arachnoid, as high at least as the lower extremity of the medulla oblongata observed on its dorsal aspect; secondly, I shall state the result of several dissections of that portion of the arachnoid extending from the point until fairly traced over the cerebellum; thirdly, the dissection of the arachnoid and its space on the anterior or ventral aspect of the spinal marrow ; fourthly, the distribution of the arachnoid with reference to the cerebral anfractuosities, and the great posterior cerebral fissure (so called) of Bichat, so well described by Vesalius and Galen; and lastly, I shall compare these dissections with the passages just quoted from Mr. Ellis's work. 1st. We have seen that in the vast majority of dissections air may be blown into the posterior sub-arachnoid spinal space freely; that there exists no septum here ; that the points of ad- hesion between the visceral layer of the arachnoid and the proper covering of the medulla spinalis are extremely few. Now trace the arachnoid upwards towards the medulla oblongata and cerebellum, and it will be found that the parietal layer of the arachnoid generally adheres with sufficient firm- ness towards the lower end of the medulla oblongata as to prevent the passage of air upwards into that large sub-arachnoid space formed by the sudden passage of the arachnoid across to the cerebellum, leaving thus a large space immediately behind the fourth ventricle. If the arachnoid be very cautiously opened where it forms the posterior wall of this space, another membrane will be found either close to it, or separated by a considerable quantity of filamentous tissue: this membrane 1 believe to be a layer of the pia mater, or proper membrane of the medulla spinalis and oblongata, which quits the medulla along a line more or less distant from the margins of the calamus to reach the cerebellum by a nearer point: it varies in its position, and often seems to be merged in that deeper layer of the spinal neuri- lemma which, approaching the aortic margins of the calamus, passes from these to the vermiform process, and aided by the valves of Tarin, completely shuts in the fourth ventricle behind, cutting off all communication between the fourth ventricle andtheposteriorsub-arachnoid space. The " opening," then, of Ma- gendie must be generally artificial. I say generally, because that a de- ficiency should occasionally exist in the pia mater as it shuts in the ventricle is neither impossible nor improbable. But if any additional serous sac exists exterior to the arachnoid in this space, communicating at this point with the interior of the ventricles, it can only do so by forcing its way through a real barrier which the pia mater presents against the escape of the ventri- cular fluid into the posterior sub-arach- noid space. This fact I have verified over and over again, and I find it con- stantly proved by every case of chronic hydrocephalus internus. No mention is made of any septum in the posterior sub-arachnoid space ; the internal arachnoid, as it is called, seems to commence in the interior of the ventricles whose walls it lines, com- municating with the sub-arachnoid spaces chiefly at two points: 1st, at the great cerebral fissure; 2d, at the pre- tended foramen of Magendie. Now at the great cerebral fissure there exists a physical obstacle to such a communica- tion, which is this: the cerebral pia mater as it passes from one edge of the fissure