20 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. the same precisely may be said of another standing close to it. Now all these are female pelvises presenting no appearance of any disease or deformity ; I have so far selected them on this account. But here are others which shew these phenomena equally, or even more so, but being complicated with other peculiarities, had better follow the more simple ones. The sacrum I now examine shews the following peculiarities: it is that of a female : the right half of the sacrum is nearly half an inch narrower than the left; the right half of the introitus proportionably smaller, but theihac por- tion of the ossainnominataare tolerably symmetrical. Here, then, is the com- mencement of the pelvis obliqueovata of Naegele. The lumbar portion of the co- lumn presents an extensive curve, the cause of which curve it would be more difScvilt to invest]gate, but which proba- bly arose from the same predisposition to a want of symmetry. A second pelvis also, in Dr. Campbell's museum, presents the obliquely oval pelvis on the left side; a large exostotic deposition on the last lumbar vertebra rendering, I should think, the passage of any living child impossible. And now I take the male pelvis, the one before me, and I find it to resemble in the form of the introitus, as nearly as may be, that of the seal, and of many other quadrupeds, although the transverse diameter be still some- what larger than the conjugate: a second male pelvis, now in my own museum, shews the brute form to a still more extraordinary degree. The trans- verse diameter of its widest part is but about I larger than the antero-posterior; and, precisely as in that of the qua- druped, it is greatest close to the sacrum, scarcely widening, or but very little, anterior to this. Now this is the type of the foetal pelvis, and that of the mammalia lower than man ; and that this person presents a pelvis of this peculiar shape, is simply because it was the form it originally had, and from which, by a peculiarity in his nature, it had never altered. But this male pelvis merits a further notice. The false pelvis spreads out after the fashion of the female pelvis; the true pelvis is constructed on the plan of the fretus and of the quadruped mammal. The sacrum is of such breadth that immediately in front of it, or very nearly so, we lind the widest part of the introitus; that is, the edges of the abdominal entrance run nearly straight down, and then converge. The last lumbar vertebra has evidently united by its lateral processes with the cor- responding parts of the sacrum, so as to become identified with it, causing it strongly to resemble the first sacral vertebra. I shall now endeavour to apply these views derived from transcendental ana- tomy to the practical work of Naegele, and to his discovery of the pelvis oblique ovata. From time to time there occur, no doubt, in every dissecting room, specimens similar to the five or six now lying before me; they have been in my own museum nearly seventeen years, and have annually been exhibited to my class. I shall describe one of them with some minuteness, the rest more briefly. 1. A female pelvis, history unknown. The right os innominatum is not pre- sent ; the left had been accidentally divided with the saw just before the acetabulum, and the fragment lost; the last lumbar vertebra is present; the sacrum also, and seemingly the first of the coccygeal vertebrae. To understand the preparation rightly, it requires to be seen, or to place Mr. Naegele's work before you. The left sacro-iHac articu- lation is obliterated or anchylosed ; the iliac portion of the left innominatum small, and but partially developed. The sacrum is twisted away to one side; the area of the left half of the introitus could scarcely have equalled a third of the right: the specimen when entire must have presented exactly the form we find in M. Naegele's plate, and have been one of the very best specimens of the obliquely oval pelvis. 2. The preparation marked 980 is similar to the last in nearly all respects : the partial development has again happened on the left side; the anchy- losis of the joint is complete only on the surface, but the obliquely oval form would not have been so well marked as in the preceding specimen. 3. In the specimen now before me, which is an extremely instructive one, as shewing the early stage at which these deformations commence.the pelvis being evidently that of a young person, a female, the defective development had taken place on the right side: there is no appearance whatever of any anchylosis,—a change which seems to