12 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANA.TOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Morries, one of the most talented stu- dents. This anomalous and very singular muscle arose, or was connected by a broad tendinous base to the cordiforra tendon of the diaphragm, about an inch to the left of the gullet. It was connected with the diaphragm in two ways, or by two slips or attachments : the superior slip terminated shortly in a tendon which descended perpendicu- larly, or in the axis of the body; the inferior by a series of tendinous fibres which came directly from the tendinous fibres of the diaphragm itself (left portion), and of its cordiform tendon. The muscle or muscular band thus formed by these double origins was about an inch and a half in breadth; it had the same muscular character as the diaphragm itself. Proceeding from left to right, and gradually narrowing, it crossed the middle plane of the body, crossing in succession, 1st, the small portion of the left crus of the diaphragm ; 2dly, the gullet; 3dly, the inner portion of the right crus of the diaphragm. Hitherto, the mustle in its course lay close to the concave sur- face of the diaphragm, but now, de- scending a little, it subdivides, at its origin, into two parts, a smaller and larger. The smaller, which was also the descending portion, seemed at first disposed to follow the direction of the right crus, but was soon lost, for after a course of about an inch it terminated by gradually disappearing on the outer surface of the peritoneum; the larger or stronger portion, rather more than half an inch in breadth, proceeded horizontally until it reached the con- cave surface of the liver, terminating in that sulcus which contains the re- mains of the ductus venosus. To the lower edge of the obliterated duct the muscle adhered by a series of tendinous fibres, and these might be traced not only upwards to the point where the duct comes off from the sinus pf the portal vein, but onwards until it also adhered to the remains of the umbiUcal vein throughout a considerable space. The broad end of the muscle, near its origin, was now cut through, when a series of short muscles presented them- selves, arising by tendinous fibres from the cordiform tendon, and terminating in the s;ime tendon, but something more to the right. All these muscular slips proceeded over the margin of the oesophageal opening. Here was a new attachment, then, of the liver and its vessels to the abdo- minal walls. The usual decussation of the dia- phragm was next examined ; a strong band of fleshy fibres passed from the left to the right crus, but were in the opposite direction, properly speaking; a small portion only of the right crus lay over the above, but descended no further than the middle plane of the aortic opening. On examining the remains of the umbilical vein left attached to the liver, the portion more immediately connected with the vena portal was found enclosed in a sheath of fibres, having all the appearance of muscular fibres; this extended for about 2^ inches; further than this I had no opportunity of tracing it, the parts be- yond having been destroyed by a post- mortem examination. During the same examination, the abdominal viscera had been removed prior to my own dissection of the above structures. Future inquiries will, no doubt, some day prove the muscle I have just de- scribed, as well as the muscular sheath of the umbilical vein, to be connected with the doctrine of " unity of or- ganization" in the animal series, or in the history of the human embryo- genesis. Varieties of Arteries.— 1. Humeral and Interosseal. 2. Subcluvia^i. I shall first notice a variety in the re- lation of the humeral artery—perhaps the most remarkable which has as yet been recorded in respect to this artery. The variety to which I allude is that deviation of the main trunk of the brachial from its usual course, to pass behind the supra-condyloid process of the human humerus, accompanied by the median nerve, and after descending for a short way in the supra-condyloid groove regaining its normal position and course near the bend of the elbow. By a reference to my memoir on the supra-condyloid process in the human humerus, published in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for 1841, it will be seen, that the artery and nerve, by following this course, repro- duce most exactly the normal arrange- ment in the arm of the tiger, panther, cat, lion, and most carnivorous animals. The authors of the Bridgewater Trea- tises, and their supporters in " Guy's"