Some Remarks on the Structure and Arrangement of the Spinal Arachnoid. A FEW years ago I published in the Medical Gazette a translation of the memoir, by Arnold, on the Membranes of the Brain and Spinal Marrow; to the translation I added a commen- tary. My chief object was to point out to anatomists the existence and the peculiarities of a tissue subjacent to the arachnoid (sub-arachnoid tissue), con- necting that membrane to the pia mater as well cerebral as spinal. 2. To ex- plain my reasons for differing with M. Magendie in respect to those " com- munications" he supposes to exist be- tween the fourth ventricle (cerebellar) and the general sub-arachnoid space. And, 3. To describe the true nature of that membrane which invests the cere- bral and cerebellar ventricles (ventricu- lar membrane) and the surfaces of the convolutions of the brain where they oppose each other. These observations 1 now make from memory, not having the memoir before me, but I believe that these were the points at which I chiefly aimed. Since then, some additional observa- tions on the arrangement and structure of the spinal sub-arachnoid tissue have been made by an anatomical writer, who, though evidently young and butrecently in the field, has already, by the remark- able clearness of his descriptions, earned for himself a reputation which must be lasting. The observations to which I al- lude are contained in a foot-note to the admirable descriptive work of Mr. Yiner Ellis. They are not put forward as his own, but described as having been fur- nished him by an old and much esteemed friend of mine, Dr. Sharpey ; they refer to an anatomical structure to which, for many years, I had occasionally given a good deal of attention, and bestowed on its examination a good deal of labour. Surprised at the dis- crepancy between us, I repeated with, if possible, still greater care, my pre- vious observations. To avoid every chance of error, I requested my assis- tants to repeat the dissections. I next made them in presence of large classes of students. After reading to them the various passages alluded to as occurring in Mr. EUis's work, and finding that hitherto I have met with nothing to alter my previous description of this membranous structure, which, by the by, simply accords with the usual descriptions of others, I now venture to submit the matter in dispute to my brother anatomists and physiologists: the ultimate structure of these im- portant membranes can scarcely be too frequently examined*. Mr. Ellis's text is as follows :—" Dis- section of the Spinal Cord." "A small portion of the cord is to be cut off, and the dura mater, having been laid open both before and behind, placed^ in water, with the dura mater pinned out on a piece of board, and with the pos- terior surface uppermost. If air be gently blown beneath the visceral layer of the arachnoid, the sub-arachnoid space is perceived, and it is found to be divided into a right and left portion by a septum extending along it."—P. 150. As a lecturer on anatomy for nearly twenty years, and the conductor of large practical classes, I have been much in the habit of laying open the spinal column with the view of demon- strating the structures to classes and to individuals. Now, what I have ob- served having a reference to the passage just quoted is simply this, confining my remarks as strictly as I can to the * When I commenced these observations I was in hopes of putting my hand on the " Translation of Arnold, with a Commentary," already referred to; It was published, so far as I can recollect, in the Gazbtte (perhaps in the Lancet) some four or five years ago, but I have failed in meetinir with the volume, so that I am compelled re" luctantly to quote it from memory.