DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 11 look carefully for any variety in form which might occur, and one of the first was noticed by myself in examin- ing the sternum. "Whilst describing the superior aperture of the thorax still covered with soft parts, I remarked to the class that although the sternum was sufficiently broad in most parts, it presented at its tvnclienl incisura or notch a peculiar arrangement, which led me to suspect the presence of an anomalous structure. Soon after the lecture I examined into what this anomaly might be, and found the narrowness of the superior portion, or rather margin, of the sternum to be owing to the presence of two episternal bones, occupying precisely the position in which they were first noticed by Eeclard,* and afterwards by M. Bres- chet,t and by Mr. King J of London. The specimen I examined with a good deal of attention, but found little to add to the extremely accurate de- scriptions of preceding observers : situated behind the sternal attachments of the sterno-mastoid muscles, and mesially in respect to the articular sur- face for the clavicles, the pre-sternal bones are attached by their bases to the inner or deeper margin of the notch of the manubrium of the sternum ; they are of a pyramidal form, and approach each other slightly at their summits. The base of each appeared to me en- crusted with cartilage, and there existed a close but distinct moveable joint, with a synovial apparatus, and strong liga- mentous bands of a i)eculiar reddish colour, between them and the sternum; one was less moveable than the other, and a ligamentous band connected them to each other. A few muscular looking fibres, but extremely short, ran from the sternum to these bones. It is not my intention to enter upon the much disputed ground as to the nature and true signification of these pre-sternal bones ; Bcclard fancied they might be the rudiments of tlie fourchette (clavicule furculaire), fully developed in birds, and reduced to a mere rudiment, and that too only oc- casionally present, in man ; but this idea, however plausible, has not been fenerally adopted by anatomists : I now not, indeed, that any philosophic anatomist coincides with this view of * M^m. sur 08t(<08,e p. 83. t Annales des Sciences Naturellcs, 1838, p. 91. % Guy's Hospital Keports, Vol. 5, p. 227. Beclard's. M. Breschet's opinion is, that the sus-sternal or pre-sternal bones represent, or are, in man, the ru- diments of a cervical rib, of which the vertebral portion is very usually found in connection with the 7th cervical vertebra, and was first described by liumaukl; and the sternal portions of these ribs M. Breschet supposes to be reiircsented by the episternal bones. Having made extensive researches into the history of these cervical ribs, I am aware of certain difficulties which are opposed to the adoption of these views of M. Breschet. But whatever may be the ultimate determination in respect to the real nature of these bones, it is surely more philosophic to suppose them " rudimentary" of some struc- ture more highly developed in some other class of animals, than to adopt the " Bridgewater" and " Guy's Hos- pital" physiology, which argues that every animal is made for itself alone, stands alone, and has nothing to do with any other, and that the individual organs of man and animals are to be ex- plained by a physiology whose highest stretch of generalization is to represent the mammee of the human female as having been purposely created double, that the accidental loss of one, by milk abscess, or otherwise,might occasion no interruption to their function !* Profound philosophy ! but proving, at the same time, to how little purpose John Hunter lived and laboured, and be- queathed to Britain his immortal museum, seeing that into the educational institutions of his adopted city he failed to introduce a single spark of his philo- sophy. IV.—Muscular system.—Varieties in muscles; musculus-hepatico-diaphraff- niaticus. muscular system. In the same person whose sternum presented the pre sternal bones, I dis- covered a muscle in a situation alto- gether unexpected and extraordinary. 1 shall call it the musculus hepatico- diaphragmaticus, or M. diaphragmatico- umbilicalis, both names expressing in part its singular course and connexions. The dissection of the part was made in presence of, and explained to, the ana- tomical class. I copy the description dictated by myself at' the time to Mr. * Cooper on the Mammx; Bridgewater Trea- tises, passim.