16 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. one catcgorj' ? it appears to me evident that they do not. The first sacral and last lumbar occasionally so strongly re- semble each other, that they can scarcely be distinguished from each other; the first, second, third, and fourth, partially form alone the ar- ticulation with the OS innominatum; the fifth has nothing to do with it. They have ditferent relations, then, to the adjoining structures, and moreover, it is generally understood or admitted that besides having all the elements of true vertebrae, though called false, they combine in addition a series of rudi- mentary ribs undistinguishably united by bony union with their transverse j)rocesses. There is every probability that, in addition to very large processes, these sacral vertebras do carry upon the anterior surface of these processes ru- dimentary ribs; but still there lies a difficulty in fully coming to this con- clusion. It is this. When Meckel published his work on General and Descriptive Anatomy (a translation of which, by Jom'dan, shortly af- terwards appeared, and from which translation into French I quote), he maintained the doctrine, that the thoi'acic ribs were merely the fully developed anterior roots of the trans- verse processes of the dorsal ver- tebrae. Now this theory, so soon as announced, I showed to ray class must be incorrect; in fact, there w^ere pre- parations in the museum which refuted It: one, in particular, of a seventh cer- vical vertebra, where the transverse pro- cess was distinctly double, that is, had an anterior and a posterior root, with a considerable aperture between them for the passage of the vertebral vein ; in front of the anterior root was another aperture, and then came a cervical rib; thus, there could be no doubt of Meckel being in error in respect to his theory that the ribs are merely the prolonged anterior roots of the transverse processes of the vertebrae. Now to apply this to the human sacrum, it is easy to show- many specimens of the young bones where each lateral mass of each sacral vertebra is growing by two distinct germs; but whether these germs re- present the one the transverse process, the other the rib, as in the dorsal ver- tebrae (in whicli vertebrae the anterior root has entirely disappeared), or whether these two germs on each side represent merely the anterior and pos- terior roots, or whethw both are present and rudimentary ribs also ; these are questions which the preparations I have as yet examined do not enable me satisfactorily to solve. An appeal to comparative anatomy is only one way of solving the question, and not a very satisfactory one when applied to hu- man structure, and this for the most obvious reason in the world. The sacral vertebree present, as we have seen, the greatest caprice as to their form, without, however, deviating very much from the normal arrange- ment ; sometimes, however, they do: first, as to number; secondly, as to " development" of their natural halves. Of the variety as to number I shall saj'^ nothing: six vertebrae have, no doubt, been found, but on all such occasions it would be well to look to the number of the lumbar vertebrae. Secondly, the variety in the develop- ment, or rather the non-development, of the lateral halves of the sacral ver- tebrae, is one of the most important deformations to which the pelvis is liable. Its explanation probably rests on a law in transcendental anatomy, or rather physiology, which I shall first state. If the pelvis of a foetus at full term, or before or after for a short period, be examined, it will be found to differ entirely from the adult pelvis, and most especially from the fineli/-formed Euro- pean female pelvis ; it resembles, also— a fact which is well known to the transcendental anatomist—the pelvis of the lower mammals, whether male or female. To them it bears the strictest resemblance in as far as the structures will admit. I shall describe the par- ticulars of its form more minutely afterwards, merely remarking here that the introitus, and, indeed, general form of the cavity, is an elongated square rather than an oval; the sides, formed by the ossa innominata, are nearly straight; the cavity is of equal breadth throughout, and the antero-posterior measurement of the introitus is the larger ; any one may recognise in this the pelvis of the lower mammals. Now, should the pelvis during its develop- ment continue of this shape, or even maintain it to a certain extent, then we have a misshapen pelvis, common enough in females both here and on the continent: the pelvis continues, to a certain extent, to maintain its foetal