DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 21 come on later, and at times to be altogether unconnected with the de- formity. The first sacral vertebra strongly resembles the last lumbar; it has not yet united with the second, and the two lateral portions or wings are of extremely unequal depth; the one, the right, being scarcely half an inch; the otncr, the left, being fully an inch and j;; neither does the body of this vertebra follow so exactly the direction of the second as is usual in the regular- formed sacrum, but slopes slightly backward; lastly, a line let fall per- pendicularly from the symphysis pubis to the sacrum strikes that bone at the inner edge of the right foramina verte- bralia, instead of the centre of the bone, as it ought to do. On looking at the specimen when held fairly before you, you may see nearly the whole of the right foramina vertebialia, which ought not to be the case had the right os innomi- natum been fairly developed ; but in- stead of that semicircular line which the linea innorainata ought to present, we find it nearly a constantly converg- ing one from the articulation with the sacrum to the symphysis pubis. No one, I think, can now doubt what would have been the ultimate form of the pelvis had the person happily lived to mature years: it would have been a perfect specimen of the pelvis oblique ovata, the right side retaining the in- fantile and brute form, the left ex- panding into that of the well-formed woman. I shall now very briefly notice three more specimens which I find on the same shelf with those just described, but evidently quite different m their nature: I notice these the more par- ticularly, that their characteristicpatho- loOTcal condition may have orginally led others as well as myself to overlook the essential differences betwixt them and the preceding specimens. They arc half sections of the pelvis taken at random from the Practical Rooms, ex- hibiting an anchylosis of the right sacro- iliac joint—no other deformity is pre- sent ; the pelves shewing no marks of deformation. One of the persons had probably suffered from rheumatism; at least other parts of the bones shew a strong disposition to exostotic deposits, which indeed abound. Thus anchylosis of tliis joint is in no shape necessarily connected with the pelvis oblique ovata, although it usually follows or accom- panies it as a consequence of non- development. The last specimen on the table re- minds me of the vast variety of forms presented by the sacrum, and how difficult it is to give even the charac- teristic sexual distinctions. Here is one which would easily admit of its first bone being nicely removed with the saw, and yet leave a perfect sacrum, that is, a promontory and five bones. There appear to have been six sacral vertebra3 in this specimen, but as nei- ther the lumbar nor coccygeal bones are present, the matter remains doubtful. Another and a perfectly different view might be taken of this upper vertebra : it may be the last lumbar, but I feel disposed to say that, notwithstanding its anomalous appearance, it is the first sacral, and that the first coccygeal is here united to the last sacral. As these observations have unex- pectedly extended so much beyond the limits I anticipated, what I have further to say shall be very brief; it has a reference to two points: 1st, to some observations by Fischer and Autenrieth on the form of the pelvis of the quadru- ped mammal; 2d, as to the temporary relaxation of the pelvic ligaments in women preceding and during delivery. 1st, In addition to a vast number of very admirable and original observa- tions, Autenrieth remarks, that the depth of the osseous symphysis of the pubis, and the comparative weakness of the sacral and caudal portions; the canal-like shape assumed by the pelvis in most of the lower animals; the rudi- mentary condition of the false or upper pelvis in some, and the like condition of the true pelvis in others ; all these, he observes, are remarkable features in the pelvis of the quadruped. The influence of these changes is perceived in the condition of the muscles con- nected with these bones, in the com- parative slenderness of the haunches of most quadrupeds, and the frequency of hernia in man as compared with them. The usual vertical position of the trunk in man has, no doubt, its share in giving rise to this circum- stance. Autenrieth's mode of calcu- lating certain dimensions of the pelvis is most ingenious, but to do justice to his ideas it would require that the work were translated and transferred to your pages entire: he divides the pelvis, for example, into wliat he calls