DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 17 form; there is a kind of arrest of de- velopment ; tlie sides are too straight, the sacrum too narrow ; the transverse diameter of the introitus too small, and the antero-posterior diameter too long. I repeat, pelves of this form are ex- ceedingly common in the male; they are also common in the female. But let ns suppose that the arrest of development has been limited only to one side, confined to the left half, say, of the sacrum and corresponding inno- minatum, but that the arrest of deve- lopment has been here, if I may so say, much exaggerated, that is, more com- plete ; that the bones have not only not undergone those changes as to /o/-?n which they ought to have done, "but that moreover they are positively much smaller than those of the oppo- site side; that, in fact, that has taken place here which we shall find may take place even in the ribs. Then there is produced the " pelvis oblique ovata," the discovery of which is due to the illustrious Naegele. A glance at fig. 1, pelvis of foetus; fig. 2, of mammal; fig. 3, of ill-formed female pelvis, but quite capacious enough for the passage of the child; fig. 4, the pelvis oblique ovata of Naegele ; fig. 5, the finely-formed female pelvis : a glance at these figures will best explain the whole theory to the reader. Dr. F. KrammerscroiF, of Dorpat, whom I had the pleasure to meet lately, a most intelligent observer, informed me that he saw lately, in the museum of Dr. Outrepont, a female pelvis in which the deformation now known by M. Nae- gele's name of "pelvis oblique ovata," extended to both sides, giving rise to the greatest difficulty during labour, and ultimately, if I rightly recollect, causing the death of the patient. If it were not that anchylosis or bony union of the sacro-iliac joint, so generally, if not always, coincides with the arrest of development, giving rise to this de- formity. Dr. Outrepont's case was one in which the pubic section might have been attempted with some slight chance of success; to propose this operation in the round or transversely oval pelvis argues a want of mere mechanical knowledge on the part of the adviser. The transcendental theory I have justcndeavoured to aj)ply in explanation of, 1st, the normal form of the male pelvis and its varieties; 2d, the form of the pelvis of the mammal; 3d, certain unusual forms observed in the female pelvis must ultimately rest on certain facts which it is proper to examine more in detail, or rather by direct or intuitive perception. If these be cor- rect, then the theory is good so far as it goes: it gives us no insight, it is true, as to the why these things should hap- pen so, but it shows the manner of their taking place. The details I shall now take the liberty of giving are taken chiefly from scattered memoranda of lectures. The resemblance of the abdomen, pelvis, and trunk generally of the human fostus and infant to the same parts in the adult quadruped mammal, is very striking ; it depends, no doubt, on the law of unity of organization. But I may as well quote the notes as they stand in my note-book. If the principles and views just laid down be in accordance with nature, they ought to stand the test of intuitive inspection, or an appeal to individual phenomena; let this appeal, then, be made to the human and brute structure by a brief, but, at the same time, care- ful inquiry into a number of specimens sufficiently numerous to warrant the deductions. 1st, In the skeleton of the adult foetus now before me (not selected, but taken at random from the museum), prepared and dried in the usual way, the pelvis presents the following ap- pearances. In its entire outline it resembles the pelvis of the quadruped ; I mean of most adult mammals. It is more like an elongated canal than the human pelvis; the iliac walls are com- paratively upright, the false pelvis con- tracted and narrow, falling exceedingly within the limits of a perpendicular line descendingfrom the shoulders; astraight line directed horizontally from the sym- physis of the pubis towards the verte- bral column strikes the lowermost part of the coccygeal bones. The conjugate or antero-posterior diameter is If inch ; the transverse, where widest, about 1 inch, and nearljj^ of the same width throughout; in other words, the pelvis is no longer, or rather not yet, a trans- verse oval one, but quadrilateral, its greatest diameter, as in the brute, being from before backwards, and precisely the reverse of what it ought to become (to give it a strictly human form) in the adult. Already, in this foetus, the coccygeal bones are twisted or curved c