6 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. to the other, shuts it closely in ; it adheres, in fact, (as it does to the edges of the convolutions) to each edge firmly, passing from one to the other, and, in passing, transmits into the interior of the brain two distinct processes, namely, the excessively delicate ventricular lining; and secondly, the tela choridea and cnoroid plexuses. These structural arrangements were pointed out in my commentary on Arnold. Thus it is physically impossible that any serous sac can pass across the brain by the wall of the ventricles, as described in Mr. Ellis's work. The ventricular lining is in fact a layer of the pia mater, and the ventricular cavities are ex- cluded from all communication with the sub-arachnoid space by the firm adhesions of the same membrane at the margins of the great openings into the interior of the brain, viz. the great cere- bral fissure and the fourth ventricle: the prolongation of the vascular layer of the same membrane, under the name of choroid plexuses, contributes to shut up the openings. I promised to return, thirdly, to the dissection of the arachnoid membrane, and sub-arachnoid space on the ventral aspect of the cord; and, unquestionably here, great varieties exist. A very common arrangement is a loose adhesion of the visceral layer of the arachnoid to the pia mater, so that on blowing up the space by introduc- ing the blowpipe, the an-angement was found to be very similar to that on the dorsal aspect. Sometimes, on the contrary, the space is crowded with filamentous tissue to such an extent, and at the same time so short and dense, as to prevent the passage of the air amongst its meshes for any great distance at least, although considerable force be used. Now between these extremes every variety exists, and it has not un- frequently happened that four or five specimens, examined in succession with a view to determine this very question, have presented each of them structures quite dissimilar to the others. To look for a serous sac here was quite out of the question; supposing it to exist in some cases (which is not impossible). Mr. Ellis has omitted mentioning how it terminates upwards. I find that 1 had promised to com- pare these dissections with the state- ment in Mr. Ellis's text; but perhaps the reader had better do this for him- self. Much, no doubt, remains still to be inquired into with respect to these membranes ; I shall be happy to repeat the dissections with any anatomist situated within a convenient distance. It were easy for me to extend these notes, by pointing out several contra- dictory passages in the generally very clear and eminently descriptive work of M. Cruveilhier; but this is unneces- sary. The work was published in 1835, and in a new edition they may not be found. My object is not criticism; merely truth. In conclusion, it only remains that I should notice, with surprise, the extremely meagre and imperfect account of these structures which has just ap- peared in the " Encyclopedic Anato- mique," a work leading necessarily to great expectations, as well from the celebrity of its translator, M. Jourdan, as from the host of distinguished and original contributors to the work, and more especially from the celebrity of that high name, Valentin, attached es- pecially to the volume containing the " N^vrologie." On some Varieties in Hnman Struc- ture, with Remarks on the Doctrine of " Unity of the Organization.^' Osseous system.—The Cranium. A few years ago there was reported in a weekly journal, but very briefly, the case of a labouring man, who, fall- ing from a scaffolding, or having been accidentally knocked down in some way or other, was carried senseless and motionless into one of the largest metropolitan hospitals. The distin- guished surgeon into whose hands this patient came having examined his head carefully, discovered on its surface a remarkable depression, and assuming this to be the probable cause of the loss of sense and motion, he proposed the application of the trephine as the most appropriate remedy. But, fortunately for the patient and for the surgeon, the patient's wife appeared in the hos- pital, and the nature of the operation, vnth the reasons for operating, having been explained to her, she objected to its being proceeded with on the follow- ing very sufficient grounds : viz. that ever since she became acquainted with her husband, the patient, his head had