DR KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 9 doidal suture, and the superior parietal crests when found in man do not seem to me to run in the parietal suture, but parallel to it; in many animals, how- ever, there is a parietal crest continuous with the anterior bran. h of the occipital crest, directly in the line of the suture. The reason why such crests should be found on the surface of the cranium in different animals it seems to me im- possible to say; even in my youngest days I had always philosophy enough in me to laugh at the Bridgewater nonsense (a theory all but exhausted by Philo,Derham, and Paley), which would assign to them the mechanical reason for " extending the attachments of cer- tain muscles." There is a single remark more I beg leave to make in respect to these crests; they are not more fully developed in the darker race of men, than in the Saxon, Celt, or Pelasgian races : at least it appears so to me from all the specimens I have examined: if we are, then, to de- nominate them an " arrest of develop- ment" (although this is clearly a mis- nomer in one sense), it ought to be kept in view that the occurrence is in no shape peculiar to the dark races of men. Occasionally on the surface of the cranium we meet with an absolute de- pression, sudden, and as if scooped out at the expense of the outer table and diploe alone ; nothing can be more likely to mislead the surgeon. I find them in crania which appear to me otherwise quite healthy, but still they may have been occasioned by a blow inflicted when young — even by the forceps of the accoucheur. If my re- collection be correct, I think I remem- ber a cranium which was presented by Sir G. BaUingall to the College of Surgeons, whose surface was com- pletely notched and indented with blows ; it belonged to a native of Aus- tralia. On the other hand, these de- pressions occasionally correspond with exostoses found projecting from the inner table, which possibly during life may have given rise to much distress. There is a skull-cap now before me, and { can produce several others, in which such remarkable appearances are not limited to the exterior table; in this cranium the anterior half nearly of the inner table is rough, with sharp elevations; the bones are thickened generally, and at two points absorption had commenced in the inner table, and all but perforated the bone, and still there is nothing visible on the outer table as regards this remarkable change in the interior of the frontal bone. What may be observed on the outer table is a prominence of the parietal sutures, and an elevation of the outer wall of the left frontal sinus : the pro- minence of the bone at this point during life would have strongly resembled an exostosis; and yet it is not so, but merely a general thickening of the outer table and diploe, extending from over the sinus to beyond the external angular process of the bone. The last variety 1 shall allude to is that peculiar deformity, for it must be so called, which consists in a want of symmetry in its various parts. About a year ago, a naval surgeon, who had formerly studied anatomy with me, had the obliging kindness to present me with a remarkable cranium ; being no less than the cranium of one of the party who attacked and slew our immortal circumnavigator, Cook. This cranium, which I now place before my audience,* unquestionably belonged to a native of the Sandwich Isles; its re- semblance to those crania met with in museums as Peruvian and Brazilian, is remarkable, more especially in respect to its want of symmetry, thus shewing an affiliation between the aborigines of the mainland of America and those of certain islands, but not of others, as of Van Diemen's Land for example, or Australia: the crania of the natives of these islands appeared to me different from that I now speak of. I shall con- sider the want of symmetry more in detail in a special lecture. !!• — V'/te humerus : its supra coiidyloid process. Comparative anatomists had long ago described a foramen, or short canal, traversing the humerus somewhat obliquely in carnivorous mammals, and they had also described, what could not well escape the most casual ob- server, that this canal was situated a short way above the inner condyle of the humerus ; that it was formed by a process of bone running from the shaft to the inner condyle, and that the humeral artery and its accompanying * These contributions were mostly submitted to my anatomical class at various meetings.