18 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Fig. 1. Outline of the pelvis of the human foetus at term : the pelvis at this ag-e may be taken as the type of the transcendental law ; it is more quadrilateral than rounded or oval, and its antero-posterior diameter is the longest: it has the form, in a ^ea.t measure, of the pelvis of the quadruped and quadruraanous mammal, of the human male pelvis g-enerally, and of certain ill-formed female (all human) pelves. Fig. 2. Outline of the pelvis of the elephant: the in- troitus of the pelvis of the elephant is more rounded than that of most quadruped mam- mals, including even that of the quadrumana; still it does not assume the special transverse oval character of the well-formed human female pelvis. Fig. 3. it is in this pelvis. In the adult female, that a separation of the pubic articulation takes place to so great an extent prior to and during the birth of the youiifj seal. Fig. 4. That fonn of the liuman female pelvis which 1 have called the quadruped form ; it is quite common in this country, and I think in Europe generally; this is merely the foetal form per- sisting, the transcendental law, or law of gene- ral type, prevailing over the law of species. Beauty of form, and fitness for the due i)er- formance of function, or the law of species, when not interfered with, gives rise, in woman, to the pelvis whose outline is represented by Fig. 5. Pelvis of the seal: this is the extreme of the type; this form occurs in the very young human fretus, and 1 have seen an approach to it in the adult human male and even female : Tliis is the transverse oval pelvis: when to this is added a fully developed upper or false pelvis, then the osseous girdle is considered as com- pletely or fully developed. The transcendental law, or law of type, may prevail on one side of the pelvis, and not influence the other; this gives rise to the pelvis oblique ovata of Naegele, as seen in Fig. 6. When it takes place on both sides, as is said to be the case with a human female pelvis now in the possession of Dr. Outrepont, then the out- line of the introitus will strongly resemble that of tlie seal-or, in other words, the transcen- dental of the very youngest period of the human skeleton, when, in fact, it was almost entirely cartilaginous, had continued in force to mature years, and the antagonistic law of species had, from causes unknown to us. never come into action. I should not think that the curvature of the spine in the lumbar region, seen in Fig. 6, was a necessary consequence ot the non-development of the half of the pelvis.