22 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. a dorsal part and an abdominnl, and he found that, whilst in the infant of two years the first was to the second in length as 10 to 11, and up to 14; in the adult it was as 10 to Ifi, u[) to 22. Itis sufficiently curious that, although in certain qnadrumana, and in the elephant, the comparatively rounded form of the cranium in this respect somewhat, though rather remotely in the latter, resembling the human, might have been supposed adequate to produce a marked alteration in the form of the pelvis, it yet has not done so, at least not to any great extent. The pelvis of the highest of the qna- drumana does not, in so far as I recol- lect, approach in form the female (human) pelvis ; and in respect to the elephant, although it may be admitted to be more rounded in the introitus, or narroiv, than most mammal pelves, its resemblance to the transversely oval human female pelvis is very distant. 2d, Do the articulations of the female pelvis relax during, and a little before, delivery ? To what extent does the relaxation take place ? Is it a rare or frequent occurrence? Is it a patho- logical or a healthy condition ? To answer these questions in as far as my own experience goes, I shall endeavour to relate, to the best of my recollection, some of the principal facts bearing on them in the order in which they presented themselves to me. During the summer sessions of 1825, 1826, and 1827,1 delivered, in Surgeons' Square, three courses of lectures on comparative anatomy. The desire to present as many fresh specimens of all the great classes, and principal genera, of animals, induced me to apply to the fishermen on our coasts, engaging them to send me any rare mollusca fishes, seals, dolphins, &c. which they might take by nets or otherwise. Now, imder tliose circumstances, a pregnant seal was brought me ; the animal had been shot with a single ball, killing not only the mother but the foetus. From the size of the young seal and other circumstances, it was evident that in a very few days the foetus would have been born. I shall here abstain from mentioning any other circumstances respecting the anatomy of the seal and its foetus, saving what is directly connected with the history of the pelvis—I mean of the pelvis of tliis pregnant seal. The fujtus, which lay in the uterus with all its natural connexions, appeared to me of extra- ordinary dimensions, and I was curious to k now how such a foetus could pass the pelvis of the mother : the examina- tion of this cavity displayed a singular and unexpected fact, and which was at the time quite new to me ; the inter- pubic ligament, or ligamentous sym- physis, was so elongated that the bones might be separated from each other to the extent of nearly two inches. When I now examined attentively the form of the osseous pelvis, I could see very evi- dently that in the quadrilateral-shaped pelvis, where the greatest diameter was the antero-posterior one, as in the quadruped mammal, and not the trans- verse one, as in woman, this temporary separation of the pubic bones of the pelvis admitted of a great enlargement of all the diameters of the pelvis, whilst in the transversely oval pelvis of woman, the artificial separation of the pubic bones merely, even to a con- siderable extent, say an inch, did but little increase any of the diameters of the brim and abdominal entrance to the true pelvis. As this was a matter which could be made the subject of comparative demonstration, several female pelves were divided at the pubes, as recommended by Sigault, when it became manifest to the class that unless the pubic bones were separated forcibly from each other for more than an inch and a quarter, nothing was gained on the diameters of the cavity ; and that a more extended separation, so as to render the operation at all useful in respect to its object, was abso- lutely impracticable on the living woman, since, on its being attempted, the sacro-iliac joints were heard to give way. Having satisfied myself that the Sigaultian operation on the transversely oval pelvis of woman could lead to no real benefit, being only applicable to that form of pelvis found in the quadru- ped, and but rarely in woman, my attention was next directed to ascertain whether or not, in woman, the liga- mentous symphysis of the pubis became relaxed during parturition ? Whether or not this was frequent or rare ? W^hether or not it was accompanied by a corresponding relaxation of the sacro- iliac joints, without which the relaxa- tion of the ligamentous symphysis would be of little avail ? And, lastly,