DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 15 appearance of breadth and capacity to the female haunches, and may lead the accoucheur into error. Transcendental and other p/ii/sioloffical laws as applicabie to the pelvis and its varieties, A portion of the pelvis, a single bone, a section, a half, mesial or horizontal, may all, or any of them, be fully developed, and not the rest. Its pubic portion, which may be viewed as the pelvic sternum, ma_v be wanting, and this coincides with deeper malfor- mations, afiecting the bladder and genital organs ; but the laws of whose application I mean here to speak more particularly are, 1st, the law of unity of organization in the animal kingdom, and the coincidences of that law with the embryonic or rather fcEtal struc- tures and forms. There will be no occasion for my following any syste- matic order in describing the facts, or stating what they illustrate. The posterior wall of the pelvis is formed by a continuation of the ver- tebral column ; the mere anatomist describes the pelvic portion of the column as composed of sacrum and coccyx, not venturing to give them other names to the student, lest, what is most likely, the student should misun- derstand him : all true anatomists know that this section of the column comprises at least two regions, sacral and coccygeal : that these vertebrae, nine in number, which ought, per- haps, to be diflerently classed, are even by the coarsest physiologist considered as distinct; as divisible, in fact, into vertebrae of two distinct classes, namely, sacral and coccygeal. But may there not be here three classes of ver- tebrse, of one of which the first coccygeal bone may be the representative con- fined in man to one, but in most mam- mals extended to many bones ? Or has a class of vertebra; been struck out altogether? In the neck of man and of mammals generally there would seem to be three distinct classes of vertebra;, of which, in man, the first comprises the atl as and dentata ; the second com- prises the 3d, 4th, 5th, and, as I think, 6th ; and the third class in man has in it only one vertebra, namely, the 7tli, or proeminens; whereas, in the sloth, this same region comprises two or three vertebra; carrying ribs, as the 7th in man so frequently does. Now it is by no means unlikely that the same may happen in regard to the pelvic por- tion of the column; a whole class of vertebrae may be left out, or represented by a single one—the first coccygeal. Of these vertebrae I shall consider, first, the varieties in form of the three inferior, or the 2d, 3d, and 4th coccygeal. These probably belong to a class ; in early life they are perhaps com- paratively large, and even may be ob- served to deviate to one side or other from the mesial plane ; this deformity takes place very early. They vary in shape and in number, and in the muscles attached to them : twice only, in all my life, have I observed the presence of a distinct sacro-coccygeus muscle ; but in these it was large and distinct, and admitted of no sort of doubt*. Their variety as to number must be rare; I do not remember having met with an instance of it. On the. varieties of the first coccygeal ver- tebi'a I need not dwell: they refer principally to size, to its osseous union with the adjoining vertebrae, and the greater or less development of its pedicle and arch. It partakes a little in that " arrest of development" of the half of the pelvic portion of the ver- tebral column connected with the pelvis oblique ovata of Naegele, of which re- markable deformity, and its explana- tion on the principles of transcendental anatomy and physiology, I shall speak presently. Sacral vertebra;. Anatomists had laid down discri- minating characters for the male and female sacrum as a whole, that is, after the invertebral ligaments and soft parts had disappeared, and the five vertebras had become united into one. They de- scribed the female sacrum as broader, shorter, and more concave, than the male ; and this, I think, will still prove the correct opinion as to the greater number. But I quite agree with Mr. South as to the fact of there being great varieties in all these matters. Do the sacral vertebrae belong to all * In 1821, whilst dissecting- in the practical rooms of La Piti6, I accidentally met with a per- fectly distinct case of a tendinous intersection of that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum which lies over the temporal aponeurosis and external angular process of the frontal bone; it divided the muscle into two equal parts. I have never mot with this tendinous intersection since, an( re;,n-et the not having- preserved it, as I find its occurrence denied by M. Ci-uveilhicr.