8 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. embryonic form of its own organs. To apply these laws to the peculiarities in question, we have only to say with the German, that the human cranium, which, when fully developed, ought to present a uniform and comparatively smooth surface, and a series of immovea- ble sutures, has, in the foetus, a totally different character; in it, the sutures are moveable, and slide freely over each other, in short, may be made to overlap each other ; that when dried, prepared, and deposited in our museums, the foetal head actually presents these ap- pearances ; that should the adult head present a similar form in some, it is merely an " arret tie developpemeiit;'" and finally, this very irregularity, by the great law of unity of organization, is the usual normal form in many species of the lower animals : in them the " arrest of development" is the law j in man it is the exception. I shall afterwards endeavour to show that these are the only views which, in the present state of science, can be adopted, and that what has been written against them in France, and more especially in England, is simply, and, to use the mildest phrase, ingenious nonsense; sometimes very pompous and imposing, as in the Bridgewater Treatises, but still downright nonsense, and not meriting the smallest attention from any philosophic mind. The Ger- man theory, or rather the theory of Goethe (for it is his), requires very con- siderable modification before it can be applied extensively to the history of organization. Let us proceed, in the meantime, with details. On examining the museum to find the crania of those animalswhich ought, ac- cording to the theory, to present the peculiar form or forms above described as " anormal" in man, but " normal" in them, it is not so easy to find them. That such exist I have no doubt, but the examination of some hundred spe- cimens of the crania of different mam- maliae has not furnished me with any clear illustrations of the law. By de- scending lower, however, in the scale, we must meet with them; the cranial bones of the cetacea overlap each other at many points; and so more especially do those of fishes. The law of unity admits, nay requires, that we should in- clude the entire scale in the inquiry after truth. If we do not work with great num- bcrs,andonan extended scale, the theory cannot be supported on all occasions : it is a psychological and metaphysical theory, as well as a physical, and they who do not admit this, either do not un- derstand it, or are unwilling to be in- formed as to its truth. Of other appearances met with oc- casionally on the outer surface of the cranium I shall mention but a few. There are first those ridges, single or double, running in the line of, or parallel to and at a little distance from, the parietal suture, remarkably deve- loped in a skull-cap now before me. These elevated parietal lines or cristse are simply the superior parietal crests generally not perceivable in the human cranium ; at other times, as in this in- stance, quite distinct. They are of course quite common in many of the mammalia, but are only seen in some men. They may occupy the proper parietal suture, as in some animals, or be a little apart: they must not be confounded with the inferior parietal crest running continuously with the external fi-ontal crest (also distinct enough in some men), and which, from the narrowness of the parietal bones in some mammals, approach close to the vertex, enlarging thus greatly the tem- poral fossae : the crests I here allude to are different from these temporal crests, but may coincide in some animals: in man they do not, and this is owing in him to the great breadth of the parietal bones. But the crania of mammals present every variety in re- spect to the extent, direction, elevation, and number of these occipital, parietal (superior and inferior), and frontal crests, whose outlines may all be seen on man, fortunately but little deve- loped in him, the " arrest" being in him happily the law; the full develop- ment, on the contrary, being the law in the highest of the quadrumana. It has always appeared to me that these crests, although they be but imperfectly developed in man, ought to be named in accordance with their real nature and meaning; they have little or nothing to do with the history of the cranial sutures, whose course, indeed, they do not generally follow : the temporal crests of the frontal and parietal bones are continuous, running directly across the suture, which they do not regard ; the occipital crest is on the occipital bone, and not in the lamb-