DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 7 always presented that identical depres- sion, and therefore—but I may leave her conclusions (with which the sur- feon agreed) to every sound reasoner. 'he patient, if I remember right, re- covered without the performance of any operation. Now, I had seen similar cases before, or at least some very puzzling appearances on the sur- face of the cranium in persons other- wise quite well, and great difficulties have occasionally arisen as to how the surgeon ought to act; but I am not quite sure that anatomy can always furnish him with the means for arriving at a sound judgment: in two circum- stances, however, I think it may assist in the arriving at a correct diagnosis,— the first great object of the surgeon no less than of the physician. An incision, as an exploratory step, made in the scalp so as to expose the cranium, may appear to many by no means a formida- ble operation, and this undoubtedly is true; but neither is the extirpating a trifling corn on the toes an important matter, and yet an estimable lady lost her hfe a few days ago in the hands of a distinguished professor of surgery in this place, in consequence of submitting to so very simple an operation. If a considerable number of crania be examined (I mean of crania as they are preserved in museums), a certain few will exhibit the following pecu- liarity : along nearly the whole line of the lambdoidal or parieto-occipital suture the occipital bone will occa- sionally so overlap the parietal, or at least be so raised above it, as to give the false appearance of a deep depres- sion of the parietal. This singular overlapping of these bones, or pernaps rather elevation of the occipital, I find, on examining the museum, to be by no means infrequent, and in various heads to present a great variety of appear- ances, agreeing, however, all in this, that, on passing the hand from the occipital to the parietal bones, a sudden depression will be felt, occasioned by the greater elevation of the former. The second circumstance in respect to such elevations at various points of the cranium is even more interesting than the first; it is of rarer occurrence, and more likely, therefore, to lead the sur- geon into error. The elevation occurs in the line of the fronto-parietal suture, and is caused by an overlapping of the parietal by the frontal bone, or at least by a greater elevation of the former. Of at least a hundred crania in the museum, there is not one showing this variety in its form, at least to any ex- tent ; and a specimen exhibited by Dr. J. A. Robertson to the Anatomical and Physiological Society was the first I had an opportunity of carefully examin- ing. What made this case peculiarly interesting was its occurrence in a per- son who had met with a severe injury to the head, which ultimately proved fatal. The seeming depression close to the fronto-parietal suture was so great as nearly to induce the attending sur- geon to apply the trephine; but the death of the person taking place very soon after enabled the medical attendant to discover the very serious error into which he must have fallen had he per- sisted in his intention of trephining: the real seat of injury was through the base of the skull, with fatal eflFusion of blood, altogether beyond the reach of the operator. Before adverting to other varieties in form met with on the surface of the cranium, I may briefly notice the Ger- man transcendental theory, which en- deavours to explain these varieties, to reduce them to a law, the law of " de- formation," and to bring them within the range of the philosophy of animal beings. The theory, wnich must be well known to most of my hearers is, that these "deformations" simply re- produce a structural form, which, how- ever rare in man, and therefore in him " abnormal," will yet be found to be the regular law in many animals placed lower than man in the scale, and there- fore are in them quite regular, or " normal." But why should they ap- pear in man at all ? This difficulty the German theorist meets by reminding you of another law, viz. unity of or- ganization : that in the embryo there is unity of organization: that the embryo of most animals runs through certain phases or "developments:" that the earliest of these developments resemble, therefore, certain animals, and the latest, others : that should the change, from any cause whatever, known or unknown, not take place, there is then an imperfect development, "arret de diveloppement" and that this may take Elace at any stage, giving even to the uman form the peculiar arrangement of parts belonging to a lower class of animals, or retaining in the adult the