DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 19 towards the right side, and the area of (lie abdominal strait, or entrance, if divided into halves by a line passed across it as mesially as possible, gives to the right side of the area a capacity greater than the left; the left wall is straighter, and already the tendency to the pelvis oblique ovata of Naegele is established. Now, we have only to suppose the persistence of these forms, to a certain extent at least, to the adult age, and we then have the exact de- scription of the ill-formed female pelvis so common in this country, and, I have no doubt, also in England ; and if what travellers say of the Esquimaux be true, it would seem that the false pelvis is seldom or ever in them properly de- veloped, so that the breadth of the haunches is nearly equal in both sexes; and this is quite possible, for the false pelvis has an entirely different and independent development from the true pelvis. It would appear already, from the examination of a single specimen, that the more common of the malformations and peculiarities in the adult male and female pelvis are merely the persistence of the fffital, infantile, or juvenile forms, and of consequence repeated in the pelvis of many of the mammalia. The obliquely oval pelvis of Naegele is com- prised in the same law, with the addi- tion of an extremely imperfect deve- lopment of one side. But there is nothing new in it; nothing unexpected— nothing which might not, a priori, be foretold by an inspection of the foetal skeleton. I have already shewn, in a memoir published some years ago on the Statis- tics of Hernia, that the pelvis was very frequently more fully developed on one side than on the other, and hence the predisposition to hernia on the more fully developed side, be it right or left; but from the slightest shade of difference to the most deformed of the pelves lithographed by Naegele one law pre- vails—the persistence of the foetal form on one side ; the regular development of adult human form on the other. Again, the quadrilateral-formed pelvis is the type of most mammals (if not of all) when adult, and, by the law of unity of organization in the embryo, it is also the type of the early human pelvis. Whatever form, then, the pelvis as- sumes, must flow from the agency of these causes, and be connected with. and dependent on, these laws. Obhquely oval pelvises are not lusits naturce, no more is the occasional quadrilateral form of the same girdle in the European female. 2. Another human foetus at full term is put before you: the measurements and form of the pelvis are as nearly as may be those of the preceding: still there are differences : the iliac portion or false pelvis is broader, and although the whole length of the skeleton be less than the preceding one by at least an inch, the false pelvis is broader by nearly half an inch; confirming what we already know so frequently to happen, that the future grown man or woman may be shadowed out in the infant. 3. Another foetal pelvis gives a con- jugate diameter of an inch and |; the transverse diameter where widest scarcely measures an inch. 4. Here is the pelvis of an infant seemingly about a year old; the antero- posterior diameter of the pelvis exceeds the transverse by nearly half an inch. Let us now examine a few adult female pelvises from amongst those whose dimensions and general form offer no obstacle to the ready passage to the child through their cavities : the first I take up gives a conjugate diameter of 4^ inches : its transverse measures 6, and yet this pelvis is not equally de- veloped : but it is a large and capacious pelvis, and the true as well as the false have very fully assumed the human character ; it is the very reverse of the infantile and brute pelvis in every re- spect, in its form, its dimensions, and inclination. The next I examine is different, and yet a sufficiently capacious pelvis; first, the false pelvis is narrow and the walls upright; the woman, therefore, wanted breadth of haunches. No proof, how- ever, of a want of capacity in the true pelvis itself, as this follows different laws in its development. The conjugate diameter measures 4^ inches, the trans- verse Sg, or nearly so, being at least half an inch less than the preceding pelvis: but still it is a good pelvis com- pared with some which are to follow. The next measures 4f and 5, and is be- coming more and more at its abdominal entrance (I mean the introitus) of an elongated square form. The next is as nearly as may be 4 inches each way, without any appearance of rickets, and