4 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. dorsal aspect (posterior of Mr. Ellis) of the spinal marrow and its mem- branes. I am quite within bounds when I say that I have opened and examined the spinal marrow and its membranes, or caused it to be opened and examined in my presence, at least a hundred times. On laying open the spinal column in the usual way, by removing the arches of all the vertebrae from the atlas to the last sacral, and incising cautiously the dura mater, the visceral layer of the chnoid presents itself. This generally adheres by a few points here and there to the parietal layer, an arrangement which 1 once thought might have some remote connexion with the speculations of Goethe, Frank, Oken, Dumeril, and De Blainville, but which were supported neither by comparative dissections nor by abnor- mal structures. If the visceral layer of the arachnoid be now punctured, and a blowpipe introduced into the sub-arachnoid space, air may be blown in with the greatest ease, so as to fill large portions of this space, of some inches in length, and extending quite across the medulla, or, in other words, from side to side : the examination of the same aspect of the membrane under water gives precisely the same result. Thus the septum has no existence as a complete septum ; its existence as an incomplete one I think extremely doubtful. It is worthy of remark, that neither M. Cruveilhier*,nor the learned authors of the Encyclopedic Ana- tomique, now in the course of publica- tion, make the shghtest mention of this septum on the dorsal aspect of the spinal arachnoid, nor, indeed, on any other. This is negative evidence, it is true, but of an important kind in a matter of this sort. M. Magendie's opinions must be known to these anatomists. To their works I shall afterwards return; in the meantime I may remark, that although varieties in the connexions of the visceral layer of the arachnoid (on its dorsal aspect) •with the proper membrane of the medulla are occasionally met with, they amount to nothing more than the adhesion of the two membranes to each other at more numerous points by a fine filamentous and sometimes fibrous- looking tissue. Mr. Ellis continues— * Vol. iv. 1835. " The Bub-arachnoid space is much larger in the lower than in the upper part of the cord; it contains the sub- arachnoid fluid, and is divided, as Magendie has shown, by a partition along the middle line, and it communi- cates with the interior of the brain by the aperture in the fourth ventricle, as proved by Magendie, Dr. Sharpey considers this space to be lined by a thin membrane, that (which ?) he de- scribes as a loose serous sac ; this is reflected around the cord by its visceral layer, and on the arachnoid by its parietal ; it is separable from the arachnoid, and it may be raised with care, as a thin membrane, from the cord, roots of the nerves, and ligamentum dentatum. He suggests, also, that the portion extending along the posterior part of the space is formed by a reflection of this thin membrane inwards to the cord; that the sub-arachnoid fluid is secreted by this, and contained in it; and that it is continued into the ven- tricles of the brain, which it lines, by the aperture of the fourth ventricle into the posterior sub-arachnoid space of the brain,"- pages 150 and 151. Again, at page 14 of the same volume, " This space (the posterior sub-arachnoid space) situated between the medulla oblongata and the hemispheres of the cerebellum, is wider before than behind, and communicates in front with the anterior space by the side of the me- dulla and pons; on the sides and be- hind with the under surface of the cerebellum, and below with the large sub-arachnoid space of the spinal canal. When this space is opened, the aper- ture of the fourth ventricle is exposed. By this aperture the cavities of the interior of the brain communicate with the sub-arachnoid spaces both of the brain and of the medulla; and Dr. Sharpey thinks it probable that the membrane which he considers to line the interior of the sub-arachnoid space of the medulla is continued into the cavities of the brain by this open- ing." In a foot-note is added—" We might conceive this membrane (the internal arachnoid) to be prolonged from the external arachnoid by the canal of Bichat into the interior of the ven- tricles, after lining them to be continued through the opening of the fourth ven- tricle into the so-called sub-arachnoid space, which it lines, being applied to