10 DR. KNOX'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. nerve, the median, in its descent to the bend of the elbow, first passed behind this process, thereafter returning to their original course, or nearly so, by traversing the canal thus formed. Physiologists, as usual, offered a me- chanical reason for this deviation in certain animals from the more common structures, and, as usual, their reasons were destitute of common sense. It is not even worth while adverting to them. They resembled Sir A. Cooper's reason for there being two mammae, and Bartholin's reasons for the male having rudimentary breasts, ne gloriatur Jemiiia, &c.; it is a vile patchwork, almost peculiar to British physiology, a jumble of expedients and contrivances to meet difficulties. The possible occurrence of such a process as a supra-condyloid in man, accompanied by a corresponding devia- tion in the course of the artery and nerve, was to be foretold, according to the theories of Goethe, and was, per- haps, perfectly well understood in Ger- many, but certainly not in this country. I do not believe that any similar pre- paration to the one now before you exists in Britain. It is not my inten- tion to describe it at any length here, having already done so in a memoir read to the Anatomical and Physiolo- gical Society, and printed in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. for 1841. All I mean to do is simply to notice it as a process found on the humerus, a short way above the ioner condyle, of varying length, tending downwards towards the condyle, and coneected to it by ligamentous or aponeurotic fibres. In most humeral bones 1 have ex- amined the process is entirely wanting, or nearly so, its absence being a specific human characteristic; in others, human also, there exists a rudiment of it, with a groove above and below it; and in the one before me the process is at least half an inch in length; the artery and nerve pass behind it, and the structures are extremely analogous to those of the panther, tiger, cat, &c. It will not be objected, 1 trust, to this view that the process is incomplete, seeing that it does not reach the condyle. The course followed by the artery and nerve will form the subject of a few remarks when I .speak of the varieties of the human arteries, and referring, therefore, ""my audience to the memoir already pub- lished by me on this matter, I sliall confine myself to a single additional remark. However well known the doctrines of transcendental anatomy were to Goethe, Frank, and others in Ger- many, there were still some first- rate anatomists, also German, who, about that period, and for some time afterwards, did not rightly comprehend them. Amongst these, it is surprising to find the name of the illustrious Tiedemann, the first of living anato- mists. In his great work on the Human Arteries, a very splendid engraving is given of a variety in the course of the interosseal artery, which arose in this case from the humeral artery about the middle of the arm : quitting the course of the larger vessel, the interosseal descended towards the internal inter- muscular ligament, or partition, and passing behind a supra-condyloid pro- cess represented in the engraving, fully as well developed as in the specimen on the table, it afterwards regained its position in the bend of the elbow, ulti- mately following the course of the interosseal. This supra-condyloid pro- cess, as it really and truly was, with its ligamentous band tying it to the inner condyle, M. Tiedemann calls an " ex- crescentia ossis humeri in solita." III.—Osseous system. The comparatively rare occurrence of pre-sternal bones in man, more es- pecially perhaps in this country, in- duces me to publish the following ob- servations respecting them. During the whole period in which I have superin- tended rooms for teaching practical anatomy in this city, I have never had occasion to observe in a single instance the presence of pre-sternal bones in men, although nearly all the more rare forms of the human sternum have come under my notice ; until a few months ago, when describing to my morning class the anatomy of the thorax and its contained viscera. The person in whom these bones occurred was a stout muscular man of a stature exceeding six feet, and about 25 years of age; his general shape was somewhat peculiar, and this, added to a remarkably swarthy skin and black hair, induced me to suppose that notwithstanding his Saxon name, the individual was really of the Celtic race. But be this as it may, I requested the gentlemen engaged in the dissections to