MIDDLE LINE OF THE NECK. 145 In pharyngotomy, the pharynx may be opened either above the hyoid bone or in the thyro-hyoid interval. In the former case the operation is performed as a preliminary to the removal of the tongue; in the latter case it is undertaken with the view of gaining access to the epiglottis and the interior of the larynx. In laryngotomy, an opening is made into the larynx. A vertical mesial incision is made over the interval between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. The crico-thyroid membrane is thus exposed, and is divided transversely close to the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage. It is a very simple proceeding, and one which is attended with little or no danger if ordinary care be taken. The crico-thyroid membrane is divided trans- versely, and in its lower part, for two reasons—viz., (1.) to avoid injury to the crico-thyriod artery, which, although, as a general rule, of small size, and of no surgical importance, is sometimes large enough to give rise to awkward results if wounded ; and (2.) to place the opening as low down as possible. Tracheotomy is a more serious undertaking. The opening into the trachea may be made above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body. The high operation is generally preferred by the surgeon. Its advantages are very apparent : here the trachea lies near the surface, and no veins of any importance are met with. The only drawback consists in the small portion of trachea which intervenes between the isthmus and the cricoid cartilage. Still, this can be increased by pushing down the isthmus, which, within certain limits, can be easily dislodged in a downward direction. Many surgeons, indeed, consider that the wounding of the isthmus is a matter of comparatively slight importance. The fact, however, that a large branch of L superior thyroid artery is generally found in relation to its recPon" .° d °Perat°r hesitate before having pace Vntf C^S,.t0 thiS 6Xpedient f0r SaininS additional hiT' V ^M * iS frecluently ^cessary to combine the nigh operation of tracheotomy with that of laryngotomy-viz by cutting through the cricoid cartilage. * ' that thlZ 0i>emti°n iS a formidable undertaking. It is true Ms issLIa/rCate,r l6ngth °f tube t0 be °Perated uP°n 5 but difficult? f d6eply' and the SurSeon encounters many thf tractnr Z I ? reaChed' If thG disSector reflect uP°n tne structures which mtervene between this part of the trachea rAKi in. ^