22101454332Med K10697V ■4- ■ 't »A BOOK OF SALADS THE Art of Salad Dressing ALFRED SUZANNE and C. HERMAN SENN. The Food and Cookery Publishing Agency, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W.I I Use TRISCUIT in place of Toast in the bottom of the Salad Bowl. TRISCUIT 1. Not a FAD, but simply a compact form of Cleaned and Filamented WHOLE WHEAT Ready Cooked, but NOT pre-digested. Used instead of Bread, Toast, Biscuit, Wafer and Rusk. “ CORRECTIVE” & COMPLETELY R0URISHIN6. Tempts the Daintiest Palate. Strengthens the Diges- tive Organs. TRISCUIT is a Whole Wheat Wafer, made without Yeast, Grease, Flour or Meal—in fact, is Nature’s Food by Nature’s Process. SAMPLES FREE, POST PAID. C. E. INGERSOLL, St. Georae’s Mouse, Eastcheap. E.C.WELLCOME INSTITuIt LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. a:.t 0 U INTRODUCTON Chapter I. Green Salads (Herbaceous Plants) Chapter II. Vegetable Salads (Leguminous Plants) Chapter III. Meat, Poultry and Game Salads Chapter IV. Fish Salads Chapter V. Fruit Salads Chapter VI. Salad Sauces and Dressings ... Chapter VII. Oil, Vinegar and Condiments ... PAGE vii. I 10 37 46 59 66 ... 74professional Books. By C. HERMAN SENN. The New Century Cookery s. d. Book. The most up-to-date culinary Practical Gastronomy, l^ench Menus & Register of Dishes Recherche Side Dishes (Hors-d’oeuvre and Savouries.) The Practical Cookery Manual Senn’s Culinary Encyclopaedia Table Serviettes, and How to Fold Them A Book of Salads, or the Art of Salad Dressing. By a. Suzanne and C. Herman Senn Ices, and How to Make Them Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent Curries, and How to Prepare Them Ye Art of Cookery in Ye Olden Time ... 5 O 3 6 1 O 1 O 1 0 1 6 1 6 0 9 O 6 0 6 To be obtained through all the prhxcipal Booksellers or direct from the Publishers : THE Food & Cookery PublishingAgency, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, LONDON, 8.W.V. PREFACE. There need be no apology for offering a book on salads, because few manuals are in existence which deal exclusively with this important section of the culinary art. Salads are recognised as an indispensable course for any lunch or dinner, and for the sake of health some kind of salad ought to form an item in every family menu throughout the year. Such being the case, it is well to have a pleasing variety of reliable combinations at one’s command. To many persons, the word “ salad ” re- presents but a very limited opportunity, and yet every month of the year practically brings in some kind of material wherewith a delicious salad can be made. Salad mak- ing is not as a rule classed as an art, inas- much as everybody thinks he or she can make a salad, but there is, I venture to as- sert, a great difference between a well dressed salad and the dishes one meets with at times, which are given that name. This book of recipes is the most complete work of its kind I have as yet seen, and considering the fact that Mons. A. Suz- anne is one of the most renowned chefs of the present day, this manual should find its way into thousands of kitchens. Every recipe given reflects the genius of a masterhand in the art of making salads.VI. The reception accorded to Monsieur Suz- anne’s L'Art de Treparer et d'Accommoder Us Salades, of which the present work is a translation by A. M. Garance, has been very flattering, and justly so, because it is a work on a popular subject, and supplies a want felt by every maitre d'hdiel, cook, and housekeeper. The various chapters on salads con- tained in this book give a number of new salad combinations, and include many which have recently been introduced. The Spanish proverb as illustrated on the front of book is full of meaning to the salad mixer. It runs : — To make a perfect salad four persons are needed. There should be a miser for the vinegar, a spendthrift for the oil, a wise man for the salt, and a mad-cap to stir up the ingredients and mix them well. It would, however, be more correct to say that a patient, discreet, painstaking, and careful man or woman should per- form the seasoning and mixing of a salad, since the French say, II faui bien fatiguer la salade. C. Herman Senn. IxDNDON, June, igo3.Vll. INTRODUCTION. Under the generic name of salad we in- clude all foods seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and various other condiments. The same name is applied illogically in the opinion of the purists to mixtures of fruit with sugar, spices, and liqueurs. Salads may be arranged in six distinct classes: — 1. Green salads (herbaceous plants). 2. Other vegetable salads (leguminous plants). 3. Fish salads. 4. Poultry and game salads. 5. Meat salads. 6. Fruit salads. Salad, no matter of what class, is liked by everybody. Its presence at any meal is welcome, and it is looked upon as a wholesome and refreshing food, and at the , same time as a powerful aid to digestion. In nearly all European languages the word is practically the same. It is “ sa- lade ” in French, “ insalada ” in Italian, Salat ” in German, “ salate ” in Russian, and “ ensalada ” in Spanish. Etymologically, salad is derived from the Latin “ sal,” salt, as in classic times it appears that this was the only condiment employed. Salad was in favour in the reign of Louis XIV. Boileau, in satirical verse, describesVlll, a bad dinner at which two salads were served, one of yellow purslane, the other of wilted green stuff, both smelling of ran- cid oil and swimming in strong vinegar. This shows that then as now the quality of the oil and vinegar used was considered of first importance. But the excellence of these is not the only requisite for a good salad, the other flavouring ingredients must be in correct proportion and skilfully added. A salad at dinner is a necessity, almost a passion with some people; the craving v' for it may be compared to that of an in- veterate smoker for his pipe, of English women for tea, and the Chinese for opium. ^ Of the large number of green plants that T may be eaten as salad the principal are lettuce, chicory, watercress, barie f. (blanched dandelion—a species grown like ( celery), corn-salad, rampion, purslane, ft dandelion, and endive. ■ In spite of the apparent homogeneity of R these plants they differ essentially in taste; E each kind therefore requires special pre- ■ paration and seasoning. S The leguminous vegetables that can be used in the form of salad are numerous. The chief of these are white and green haricots, lentils, beetroot, celery, potatoes, salsify, cucumber, truffles, tomatoes, and carrots. The fish used in salad are such as have a firm flesh; for instance, salmon, turbot, sole, trout, mackerel, and tunny. But her- rings and anchovies are used as flavour- ings. Boiled and braised meat (beef, as a rule), poultry, and game can be served in the same way.IX. Every nation has its own way of prepar- ing salad, and according to the custom of the country mixtures of cream, yolk of egg, mustard, red and white pepper, horse- radish, anchovy, lemon juice, bacon fat, garlic, finely chopped herbs, and, of course, oil and vinegar are used in the seasoning. A salad is really good only when it is judiciously seasoned, and as simple as this seems it requires care and skill. An old Spanish proverb says that four persons are needed to prepare a salad, a prodigal to put in the oil, a miser to dole out the vinegar, a wise man to add the pepper and salt, andl a maniac to mix everything thoroughly. This is another way of saying that plenty of oil, little vinegar, and a judicious sprinkling of salt and pepper should be used, and that the whole must be uniformly and vigorously incorporated. The proverb is perhaps true as regards the first three co-operators in the salad, but it errs as regards the last, who should be skilful and intelligent rather than madly energetic. J. J. Rousseau wrote that the salad re- quired so much care in order to retain the essential properties of the plants that they should not be touched except by the de- licate fingers of a young girl. The philosopher was doubtless writing of times before the invention of forks. It seems, in fact, that in these days the duty of dressing the salad fell to the prettiest girl in the company, and she mixed it with ber fingers before the assembled guests. This custom was not without charms, but the appearance of the salad bowl awoke the same feelings of jealousy in the bosoms of the ladies as were felt by theX. goddesses at the marriage of Thetis and Peleus, when Discordia threw the golden apple among the guests. The following anecdote concerning a salad shows once more that great effects may spring from little causes:—Among the emigres who took asylum in London during the Reign of Terror was a gentle- man ruined by the Revolution, like many others, and who gained a modest living by teaching French. He took his meals at a West End tavern, much frequented by the English aristocracy. One day he was seated near a group of young fellows whose attention he attracted by the way in which he dressed a lettuce, which had been served a VAnglaise, that is to say, simply cut in four on a napkin. One of the young gentlemen asked him to do them the favour of dressing a salad for them in the same way. The Frenchman did so willingly, so much to the satisfaction of the young fellows that they talked of it all over the town. The emigre was soon in request. He obtained engagements at clubs and private houses simply to dress the salad. He soon got plenty of customers, and as he was well paid he quickly made a com- petency. It must be remembered that at this time the English had a profound distaste for oil, and that they were content to eat salad simply sprinkled with salt. Of the numer- ous ingredients recommended in recipes the true amateur prefers the primitive dres- sing, that is salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, with, by way of refinement, a trace of cher- vil, tarragon, and sometimes chives and pimpernel. Pretended gourmands contend that cer- tain salads should not be washed, but that the leaves should simply be wiped. I ac-XI. knowledge that lettuce* should not be steeped in water so that the crispness is destroyed and some of the flavour ex- tracted, but on the other hand it must be remembered that the plant has been in con- tact with garden compost, and has shel- tered thousands of insects and myriads of microbes, from which the leaves can only be freed by a thorough washing. * Here as elsewhere the author makes the distinction, custom- ary in France, between laitue (ordinary lettuce) and romaine (cos lettuce).—Tr.“THE LEADING CULINARY ORGAN IN LONDON.” SEVENTH YEAR OF PUBLICATION. PUBLISHED MONTHLY. Annual Subscription 4s. post free “ food Coote^” Is an Illustrated Magazine-Journal designed and produced to ap)peal to all persons engaged in Cookery and Gastronomy. It is the only official Organ of the Universal Cookery and Food Association. Gives a Monthly supply of seasonable Menus, Recipes for new tested and reliable dishes for Breakfast, Luncheon, Dinner and Supper. Advice on Culinary, Gastronomic and House- hold matters is given, .^.rticles on Kitchens, Dining Rooms, the Cellar or Household Manage- ment, written by eminent authorities, are given from month to month. These contain many valuable hints. Advice as to When, How and Where to buy Food, How to prepare and cook Food, What to eat, and numerous other features are dealt with in each Number. In order to extend the usefulness and influence of this Magazine, the Publishers will be pleased to send a Specimen Copy of “ Food and Cookery ” gratis to anyone who is likely to be interested in such a Journal. Address: THE MANAGER, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S. W.Chapter I. GREEN SALADS (HERBACEOUS PLANTS). Lettuce. Lettuce is very justly considered to be the queen of salads. Sixty species or so are known, the chief of which is the cul- tivated kitchen garden annual. There are a hundred and fifty varieties of this, and they may be divided into three distinct classes, (i) the cabbage lettuce, (2) the curly-leaved lettuce, and (3) the cos lettuce, with long straight leaves. The plant is called laitue {i.e., milky) in French because of the milky sap which it contains. It is agreed on all hands that it has nourishing and digestive properties, and possesses soothing and slightly som- niferous properties. Lettuce salad aux 'fines Jierbes. Remove the outside leaves. Pluck the other leaves separately, and break them into several pieces. Cut the hearts in two, or if they are small leave them, whole. Wash the leaves in plenty of cold water, drain and put them into a salad basket or napkin. Shake the basket or napkin vigorously to free the salad from moisture, and put it into a salad bowl with chopped aromatic herbs, three dessert spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and2 three pinches of pepper for a salad for four persons. Sprinkle the vinegar over the leaves to begin -with, dissolve the salt and pepper in it, then add the oil and mix thoroughly with a salad fork and spoon. The ingredients must be added in this order; otherwise, if the oil is put in first, the leaves impregnated with it will not absorb the vinegar. As for the pepper, it is better to grind it than to use already ground pepper, which has left the best part of its aroma at the grocer’s. Of course, it is of the highest importance that the vinegar and oil should be of first quality. Green salads should be dressed immedi- ately before serving. Lettuce Salad with Plovers' P^ggs. Prepare three lettuces as in the previous recipe. Boil six plovers’ eggs for eight minutes, put them into cold water, then shell and divide lengthways. Put the lettuce in a salad bowl with a handful of cress, some chopped chervil and tar- ragon, three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of white vinegar, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a sprinkling of pepper. Mix all up lightly and arrange the cut plovers’ eggs on the top with the white upwards. “ Cuite " or “ Conf.te ” Salad. The French call a green salad “ cuite ” or “ confite ” when it has been prepared some hours in advance, and the leaves have be- come flaccid by remaining too long in the oil and vinegar. They retain their flavour, but lose all the crispness which should be the chief virtue of a salad, and are flabby and discoloured. In spite of this, plenty of people prefer these salads. i.3 Corn Salad. Corn salad, also called lamb’s lettuce, is a winter salad, sown in September and October. It is all the more appreciated since it comes on the market when other green salads are scarce. Corn salad is eaten without chervil or other garnish, which would hide its deli- cate flavour, but on the other hand it is at its best when eaten with beetroot. Lettuce Salad with Hard Eggs. Prepare the lettuce as before, and when the salad is mixed decorate it with quarters of hard eggs, first dipped in oil and vine- gar, and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Cos-lettuce Salad. The cos lettuce is crisper and keeps fresh longer than the cabbage lettuce. In pre- paring it, the coarse outer leaves must be put aside. After well washing and drying it, pre- pare the ordinary dressing with chopped chives, chervil, and tarragon. This lettuce, as its (French) name {Romaine) indicates, originally came from Italy, and was imported into France by Rabelais, it is said. Cos-lettuce Salad a la creme. , "The dressing is as in the previous re- cipe, with the exception that the oil is re- placed by three tablespoonfuls of cream. Cos-lettuce Salad with Tomatoes. ^ Choose good firm tomatoes and dip them into boiling water so that they will skin easily. Cut them into slices and put them on a plate, and season before adding them which is dressed as usual Cabbage lettuce is obtainable towards4 the end of April. It is then very tender, but flavourless; towards the end of May it is at its best. Cos lettuce is in good condi- tion throughout summer and in the early autumn. Escarole* Salad. The escarole, or scarole, is tougher than lettuce, but it is very appetising. It is usually served with slices of beetroot, and dressed with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and a “ garnish ” of flavouring herbs. Chicory Salad. There are several varieties of chicory, the two principal being wild chicory and curly chicory. The first has a bitter taste and dark-coloured leaves. The curly chic- ory, when it is young, is an exquisite salad. It is usually flavoured with garlic. A clove of garlic is rubbed over a smooth crust of bread, and tossed up in the salad with the other seasoning ingredients. The crust is taken out before serving, and impreg- nates the whole salad with a delicate flavour of garlic. This salad must be thoroughly and well washed and dried before the seasoning is added. This consists of oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, chervil, chopped tarragon, and the garlic crust. Chicory Salad a la Bretonne {Brittany style). Boil half a pint of white haricots wdth a large onion and a sprig or two of parsley. When they are cooked drain them and al- low to get cold. Steep them in oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and “ garnish ” for at least an • The dictionaries simply give “endive " as a translation of “escarole.” Escarole, however, is a broad-leaved variety infinitely preferable to the ordinary endive for salad. The translator has beard a London coster use the word “scarole" in correction of a buyer wbo called it endive.—Tr.3 hour. Then prepare a chicory salad, as above, and immediately before serving mix in the haricots. Rampion. The rampion is a plant with bell-shaped flowers, and its young leaves and root are eaten in salad. It is seasoned like other salads, and garnished with chives, tarra- gon, and chervil. 'Dandelion. The dandelion is a wild plant with dent- ated leaves, something like the leaves of chicory. It has blood-purifying and sto- machic qualities. The young leaves make an exquisite salad which needs no gar- nish, having sufficient flavour of their own. Oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper provide all the necessary dressing. It is usual, how- ever, tO' serve slices of beetroot with the salad, the sugar of the root counteracting very agreeably the bitter of the dandelion. Purslane. Purslane is a kitchen-garden annual, which has anti-scorbutic properties. There are several varieties of it, the best known being the golden purslane which, properly dressed, makes a tasty and much appre- ciated salad. ^ It is prepared like an ordi- nary salad with the addition of pimpernel, chervil, and tarragon. The stalks of pur- slane can be pickled in vinegar like gher- kins. Cos-lettuce Salad a la Suisse (Swiss style). Prepare a cos-lettuce salad as usual, then add chopped pimpernel and tarragon, and some fresh Gruyere cheese* cut into strips. Gruyire, with a “a tear in every eye ” as the Swiss say, is almost unobtainable in England.—Tr. ^ Bb Ostrich Eggs in Salad. The chief difficulty is to obtain a freshly- laid ostrich egg. Having “ caught ” your egg, boil it in water for a quarter of an hour, then put it into cold water, and shell it. Cut it in two lengthways, and take out the yolk. Then slice the white, and crown a prepared salad of cos-lettuce with it, de- corating the white with truffles and an- chovies. Make a mayonnaise with a part of the hard yolk, and serve in a sauce-boat. An ostrich egg is equal in bulk to about ten hen eggs. This may be useful to our South African subscribers. Endive Salad. This excellent vegetable comes from Bel- gium, and is braised (stewed in a tightly closed pan) in gravy, like celery. It is also good as salad. The outer leaves are cast aside and the others are stripped off and washed thoroughly. They are then allowed to steep in water for half an hour. After drying, they are cut into pieces and seasoned with oil and tarragon vinegar in the proportion of three spoonsful of the former to one of the latter. Pepper, salt, and a little mustard are added. As a refinement, some sliced beetroot and a little chopped chervil may be added, but the beetroot should be dressed separately, and added to the salad immediately before serving. Barbe de Capucin. Barbe is a cultivated form of the roots of wild chicory, which are blanched like ce- lery. It is rather a bitter salad, and to tone this down a little beetroot should be served with it. The usual .seasoning is used, three spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar and pepn per and salt.7 Waiercress Salad. Watercress is a wholesome plant, with anti-scorbutic properties and an agreeable taste. It grows on the borders of streams, but it is also cultivated in trenches so ar- ranged that water is constantly running through them. Watercress may be prepared as a salad in the usual way, but it should be dressed immediately before serving, otherwise it loses its colour and crispness, and also some of its flavour. It is often used as a garnish for roast chicken, steak, etc. In this case it is simply sprinkled with a little salt and vinegar im- mediately before serving. It adds piqu- ancy when mixed with other salads. Cress. This plant, originally from Persia, has also purifying properties. Its peculiar and piquant taste makes it a useful auxiliary in green salads. It is served by itself in Eng- land at breakfast or tea, and in this case it is sandwiched between bread and butter, simply sprinkled with salt. Salsify Salad. When salsify is prepared for cooking as a vegetable the leaves may be used as a salad. Pick them carefully, putting aside all yellow leaves, and after washing in plenty of water let them steep in water for half an hour. Then drain them, and after ressing the salad as usual, add slices oif beetroot, pickled in vinegar. Cardoon Salad a VEspagnole {Spanish Style). Cut the white stems of a cardoon into short sticks, stripping off the outer skin. Bleach them in boiling water, to which a little vinegar has been added, then let8 them cool and drain. Arrange them in a stew pan, and cover them with white stock and a glass of chablis. Add an onion garnished with two cloves, salt, pepper, and a sprig of parsley. When the car- doons are cooked drain them on a napkin. Serv^e them in a vegetable dish, covered with a mayonnaise, to which a spoonful or two of tomato sauce and a little chopped tarragon and chives have been added. Salade Francomtoise. Wash and dry a cos lettuce, and cut it up in a salad bowl. Dress with pepper, vinegar, and “garnish.” Fry in oil (or butter, if preferred), a little fat bacon cut into dice. When cooked crisp pour the whole over the salad, mix thoroughly, and serve. The salad is sufficiently salted by the fried bacon, and very little salt should be added. English Mixed Salad. This is a mixture of different varieties of salad, such as lettuce, celery, endive, cress, and chicory, dressed with a cream sauce prepared as follows :—Work up with a salad spoon three yolks of eggs with a little English mustard, a spoonful of oil, one of cream, one of tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, a little castor sugar, and a sprink- ling of cayenne. The salad should be washed, drained, and mixed lightly with this dressing before sendng. Garnish with hard eggs cut in quarters. Watercress Salad a la Suedoise {Swedish Style). Prepare the w'atercress as usual, and mix it with slices of apple peeled and cored.9 Season as usual, but instead of “garnish” sprinkle lightly with chopped fennel and marjoram. Ham Sandwiches and Salad. Toast some thick slices of bread on both sides, then cut them lengthways with a sharp knife. When cold spread slices of ham or tongue on the untoasted side of one piece and butter the other. Spread a little mustard over the meat, and cover it with cress or chopped lettuce. Put the buttered piece over it, and press with the bottom of a plate so as toi get the two pieces to adhere. Then cut into small sandwiches.lO Chapter II. VEGETABLE SALADS (LEGUMINOUS PLANTS) AND MIXED SALADS. Italian Salad. Can there be a more appetising dish in spring than a salad of new vegetables? The mixture of divers colours and flavours harmonise together, charming the eye, the nose, and the palate. The recipe for such a salad is as simple as the ingredients which compose it. Take young carrots, turnips, new pota- toes, kidney beans, peas, capers, and as- paragus tops. Cut them into dice or strips like juli- enne, and cook separately so as to get a uniform result. Drain the ingredients well, and put them into a dish with a sprinkling of capers. Season with salt, pepper, vine- gar, and chopped tarragon and chervil. Allow the salad to steep for an hour, drain off the liquor, and dress with a few’ spoon- fuls of firm mayonnaise. Just before serv- ing give the dish a border of jelly, or serve on a bed of cooked rice surrounded by hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. This salad may also be served in a salad bowl. In this case it should be garnished with slices of truffle and lettuce hearts. Vegetable Salad a la Pompadour. Cut a few new and very red carrots, the same number of firm turnips, and some new kidney potatoes into small dice, and cook them* separately in water, adding alittle salt. Drain them and put them in a dish with kidney beans cut in small dice, peas, the white of two or three hard-boiled eggs, also cut into dice, a few anchovies cut in small pieces, ^d a spoonful or two of capers. Season with oil, vinegar, salt, a sprinkling of cayenne, and chopped chervil and tarragon, and bind the ingredients lightly with a little mayonnaise. Boil also a few eggs for ten minute.s. Put them into cold water and shell them. Cut them into halves crossways, hollow out each half with a small knife, and fill each with the salad. Serve on watercress, first sprinkled with salt and a few drops of vinegar. This may be also used for a garnish for a beefsteak or chicken a la jardiniere. Vegetable Salad a la Montglas. Prepare the vegetables as before, and after mixing them with mayonnaise gar- nish with little half-moon shapes of puff paste baked pale brown. Russian Salad. Russian salad is a mixture of vegetables and fish prepared and seasoned like the Italian salad. This fish is soused herring, anchovy, lobster cut into dice, and picked shrimps. The vegetables used are carrots, turnips, new potatoes, kidney beans, as- paragus tops, capers, and gherkins. The vegetables are cut into dice or thin strips, and put into a dish with the other ingredients. The whole is seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, paprika, chopped chervil, and tarragon. Just before serving spread a few spoonfuls of firm mayonnaise over the salad, and arrange a border of aspic jelly around it, crowning the whole with small lettuce hearts.12 Parisian Salad. Cut a boiled beetroot into thin slices, and season it with salt, pepper, and vine- gar. Allow it to steep in this for a little time. Cut in the same way some celery roots, new potatoes, and three or four cooked truffles. Place these in a dish with a few champignons. Season the whole with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and chopped gher- kins, tarragon, and chervil. Before serv- ing, drain the salad and bind it with a firm mayonnaise. Put it into a salad bowl, and decorate it with slices of beetroot. Salad of Moulded Vegetables. Prepare the vegetables as for an Italian salad. After draining them well, put them into a dish and season with salt, pepper, olive oil, tarragon vinegar, and minced parsley and chervil. Allow them to steep in this seasoning, and make a rather stiff mayonnaise, adding to' it a few spoonfuls of strong aspic jelly. Then drain the vege- tables and mix them with the sauce Have ready a fancy mould coated with aspic, of which the bottom and sides have been lined with minced truffles, hard-boiled white of egg, and chervil leaves, all steeped in a little strong aspic jelly to make them adhere to the sides of the mould, pouring a little half-set jelly in, and turn- ing the mould so as to get a uniform layer. Then fill in the vegetables, and put the mould on ice for two or three hours. Just before serving, dip the mould into warm water and turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish the base with pieces of set aspic jelly and small lettuce hearts cut into quarters. Asparagus a Vliuilc. Whilst the haricot is called the king of the kitchen garden, asparagus may be13 called the queen. There are several varieties of it—green, white, and violet —but the green is the most esteemed. Scrape the white part of the asparagus, and cut the sticks the same length. Wash and tie up into a bundle, then put it into boiling water, adding a little salt. When sufficiently boiled drain and allow toi get cold. When served hot, the sauce which should accompany is made as follows:—Dissolve a spoonful of salt in two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, add a little pepper, some mustard (French mustard), and two tablespoonfuls of olive oil. Serve this in a sauce boat. If cold, serve with a vinaigrette or mayonnaise. Asparagus Salad a la Russe. Prepare half a bundle of medium-sized asparagus and cook it in salted water for fifteen minutes. Then put it into a bowl of cold water for ten minutes, allow it to drain, and dry it in a napkin. Gut off the heads, put them into a bowl, and add the seasoning. Then cut the tender part of the asparagus in short lengths, and put it into another bowl with two dozen crayfish tails. Season with salt, cayenne pepper, oil, and tarragon vinegar. Prepare separately some small ovals of toast spread over with caviare, and put in the centre of each some of the asparagus tops. Serve the salad on a dish covered with a light mayonnaise and surrounded by the caviare toast. Asparagus Salad with Shrimps. Prepare the asparagus as in the preced- ing recipe. Then after draining put it into a bowl with half its quantity of picked shrimps. Make a mayonnaise sauce, andmix it lightly with the asparagus and shrimps. Serve on a dish in the centre of a border of hard-boiled eggs cut ihto quarters. Macedoine Salad. This is another fancy salad, quickly pre- pared and made decorative in appearance without much trouble. Bottled macedoine of vegetable is the most handy to use for this salad. These, after being drained, are seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Dressed on glass dishes and suitably garnished, macedoine of vegetables serves a most useful purpose, especially so where only small quantities of salad are needed. Green Pea Salad. Have ready a pint of young cooked peas, and drain them on a sieve to cool. Wash and drain well a fine head of lettuce, pull the leaves apart, break them into conven- ient pieces, and arrange them in a salad bowl. Mince a cold breast of cooked fowl rather coarsely, spread this over the top of the lettuce, and then arrange the peas neatly on top. Prepare a plain salad dres- sing, using tarragon, vinegar, salt, pepper, oil, and chopped parsley for the purpose, pour this over the salad and serve. A sprig of mint boiled with the peas is a decided improvement to the -flavour of this salad. Francillon Salad. Peel some potatoes and shape them like large olives, blanch and cook them in white stock (seasoned). Drain and put them in a salad bowl, add salad oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper in due proportion; also half as many bearded oysters as there are15 potatoe olives, two sliced truffles, and some chopped parsley. Mix the whole carefully, dress neatly, and serve. Lettuce and Egg Salad en supreme. Cut up six hard-boiled eggs into slices lengthways, also cut into slices four good truffles previously cooked in Madeira. Take three slices of cooked tongue, and stamp out into small rounds. Put the three ingredients into a bowl with half a dozen new potatoes cut into small pieces. Beat up the yolks of three of the eggs with a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little tarragon mustard. Moisten with a little vinegar, and add gradually three tablespoonfuls of oil. Finally add to the salad a little tarragon, chervil, and chives, all finely chopped. Serve in a salad bowl, and decorate with small lettuce hearts. Vegetable Salad a la Princesse. This salad is made exclusively with cooked green vegetables, such as peas, spruce, or green asparagus tips, French beans, capers, and gherkins. The vege- tables are mixed and seasoned with salt, pepper, oil, tarragon vinegar, and chopped chervil, and served in a border of aspic jelly or of hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. It can also be served in a salad bow! without any garnish. Asparagus Tips Salad. Take three bundles of young and green asparagus (sprue). Cut the heads off with a knife and put them aside. Run the stalk between the thumb and the index finger commencing at the thick end and continu- ing till it breaks. Then cut this tender part mto short pieces, boil in salt water, dram \i6 in a colander, and freshen with cold water. Cook the heads separately, and season the whole with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar. This salad is usually employed as a gar- nish for cold entries. Artichoke Bottoms {Fonds d'Artkhauts) in Salad. Choose young artichokes of medium size, cook them in salted water with a little vinegar until the leaves can be easily de- tached. Drain and cool them. Pick off the leaves and stalks, and cut the bottoms into strips. Then put them into a bowl, and season as usual. Half an hour before serving drain away the seasoning and add a few cooked truffles, cut like the arti- chokes into strips. Before putting the salad into the salad bowl mix with a few tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise, adding a little English mustard and a sprinkling of paprika or Kroner pepper. Artichoke Bottoms in Quarters. Artichoke bottoms are often used as hors- d'oeuvre. After cooking them as in the preceding recipe, cut them into quarters or fine shreds and season them simply with oil and vinegar, a small spoonful of mustard, and a little chopped chervil and parsley. Artichokes a la Poivrade. Artichokes are eaten raw or cooked, ac- companied simply by a mixture of oil, vine- gar, pepper, and salt. When they are to be eaten raw, young and tender ones must be chosen; if old, it is advisable to cook them. Spanish Salad. Peel two cucumbers, cut them into very thin slices, and sprinkle them with salt. .V17 Let them rest half an hour, then drain off the water,* and put them into a salad bowl. Chop up finely a large Spanish onion, and sprinkle it with salt in the same way, and after draining mix it with the cucumber. Add to the salad three peeled to.matoes, drained and chopped up, and mix the whole with mayonnaise seasoned with a little chopped mint. Vlain Celery {Celeri a la Croque). Take off the outer stalk and the green leaves at the root end of the celery, then wash it thoroughlyi, cut intO' quarters, and allow it to steep in water for an hour. It is served in a special celery glass with fresh water. The water makes the celery tender and crisp. This way of serving celery with cheese is purely English. Swedish Salad. Cut up intO' rather coarse julienne strips, carrots, truffles, French beans, young asparagus, and artichoke bottoms. Cook these vegetables separately, and put them into a salad bowl. Cut up in the same way a root of celeriac, endive, cucumber, cos lettuce, anchovies, beetroot, and the white of three hard-boiled eggs. Place these in a salad bowl with the cooked vegetables, and season with oil, vinegar, salt, cayenne, and chopped chives, chervil, and tarragon, and smoked reindeer tongue cut up like the vegetables. Allow it to steep an hour before serving, and add one or two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise. Celeriac Salad. Cut a celeriac root into thin slices, and blanch them three minutes in boiling water. * Cucumbers are allowed to ripen, or almost, for the French market, and resemble vegetable marrows in size. Hence the necessity of straining off the water.—Tr.i8 Drain and chop them into a coarse juli- enne. Sprinkle with salt, and let it remain for half an hour. Then wash the celeriac thoroughly, drain it, and season with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and English mustard. Serve as Jiors - d’oeuvre. This salad should be seasoned an hour before serving. It is very appetising. Stufed Olives. Take large Spanish olives and remove the stones with a special cutter. Prepare a chicken farce, and stuff the olives with it. Then poach in boiling water. Cool and drain. Season with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve as hors-d^oeuvre. Prussian Salad. The ingredients of this are three smoked herrfngs, four kidney or new potatoes, two russet apples, three or four gherkins, and a tablespoonful of capers. Soak the herring fillets for an hour, cut them into large dice, and put them into a bowl first rubbed with a clove of garlic. Cut also into dice the apples, kidney potatoes, and gherkins, and add them to the herring and capers. Season with oil, tarragon vinegar, and chopped chives and chervil. Just be- fore serving the salad, mix with beetroot, seasoned beforehand and cut into dice. In all cases where beetroot is used in a salad, it should be mixed immediately be- fore serving, otherwise its juice will colour the ingredients of the salad. Sauer-kraut Salad. This salad requires little preparation. The sauer-kraut should be washed in seve- ral waters, and then pressed free from moisture. It is put into a salad bowl and seasoned like an ordinary salad, but with less salt, as the sauer-kraut itself is salted.19 Cauli-flower Salad. The cauliflowers used for salad should not be boiled too long, otherwise they will break up into a pur6e in seasoning them. After cutting them into small.sprouts, cook them in salt water, drain well, and season as usual. American Salad. This should be made with white vege- tables. Butter a small charlotte mould, break into it the whites of four eggs, and cook them in a bain-marie until they are quite firm. Turn out on to a napkin, and allow to cool, then cut into small dice. Cut up also in the same shape and size blanched celeriac, artichoke bottoms, new or kidney potatoes, white radishes, and cucumber. But into a bowl two or three yolks of egg-s with a teaspoonful of mustard, the same quantity of vinegar, also salt and pepper Beat up with a small egg whisk, and add gradually olive oil until the desired quantity of sauce is obtained. Then add a ^blespoonful of scraped horseradish. f he vegetables which have been first seasoned and allowed to steep for half an vinegar are drained, mixed with the sauce, and served in a salad ^ciLade d/Estree. Cut a few sticks of white celery and the same quantity of celeriac and endive ‘nto jul.enn.. Season with salt, pepper! c l! and vinegar, and allow it to steeo for d'rah^tCr‘^- ‘Ms time dram the liquor away, and add two or three th a rather thick remoulade sauce to wh,ch a httle English ntustard has bee^20 Lyonnaise Salad. Prepare a vegetable salad of carrots, tur- nips, kidney potatoes, peas, French beans, asparagus tops, capers, stuffed olives, an- chovies cut in two, celery, beetroot, and rounds of Lyons sausage cut rather finely and skinned. The carrots, turnips, and potatoes should be cut with a punch. Mix the ingredients with a mayonnaise to which a little chopped chives and chervil and a sprinkling of cayenne has been added. Egg Salad in Half Mourning. Boil six or eight eggs for ten minutes, shell them, and leave them in cold water until they are completely cool. Then cut lengthways, put them into a salad bowl. Cover with a mayonnaise, to which chop- ped chives and capers have been added. Sprinkle a few chopped truffles over the salad and serve. Egg Salad. Shell and cut into slices four or six hard- boiled eggs. Line some little glass dishes with small lettuce leaves (cabbage lettuce is best), pour over a layer of mayonnaise dressing, upon this arrange neatly the slices of egg, pour over a few drops of oil and vinegar, and sprinkle over some finely chopped tarragon and chervil leaves and parsley. Egg and Olive Salad. Three hard-boiled eggs, three Spanish olives, four ounces tongue, two anchovy fillets, a few capers, two gherkins, a few drops of salad oil, toasted buttered bread, parsley, lemon juice. Cut the eggs in halves across, take out the yolks, and rub through a sieve. Cut off a tiny piece of the white to make them stand even, chop21 half the tongue rather finely, and mix with half the yolks of eggs. Stamp out six nice rounds of buttered toast about the size of the cut side of the eggs, sprinkle over thickly with tongue and yolks. Cut the re- mainder of the tongue, gherkins, olives, and anchovies into fine shreds, mingle gently with a few drops of oil and lemon juice, add a little chopped egg and the capers, also a pinch of white or red pepper, whichever is preferred. Fill up the cups of white of eggs. Pile up rather high, but loosely; stand each on a round piece of prepared toast; dish as garnish round a salad composed of lettuce, olives, and seasoning, and serve. ~Egg Salad a la Tartare. Take six hard-boiled eggs, shell and cool, and cut them in two lengthways. Take out the yolks without breaking them, and fill the whites with a stiff Tartar sauce. Pre- pare a lettuce salad, and after seasoning it put it in a salad bowl. Decorate the salad with the eggs, alternating the white and the yolks cut in halves. Crosnes* Salad with Asparagus Points. Having scraped and washed the crosnes boil them in salt water, drain and put them into a salad bowl with a seasoning of salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. Boil also a bundle of very green asparagus (sprue), cut into short pieces, cool after boiling, and drain. Mix lightly with the crosnes, and stir in a spoonful of mayonnaise. Radish Salad. Choose well-grown radishes, cut off the leaves, wash in several waters, and drain. Also called Japanese artichokes.—Tr. C22 Cut the radishes into thin slices, wash well, and put them with the leaves into a salad bowl. Season like an ordinary salad with a small sprinkling of chopped tarragon. Pickled Red Cabbage. Choose round and firm red cabbages. Take off the exterior leaves and stalks. Cut into quarters,and mince or shred like sauer- kraut with a large knife. Put the cabbage into a soup plate, and sprinkle with salt. Allow it to remain for three days, turning it over frequently. Then drain away the liquor, and put the cabbage into a pickle jar with some pepper pods, two bay leaves, and a little thyme. Pour boiling vinegar over the cabbage, and tie up tightly. In about a fortnight the pickle will be ready. It is used generally as hors-d'oeuvre, or may be eaten with cold meat. Black Radish Marine. Black radish is used as an hors-d'oeuvre. After washing, cut into very thin slices, put on to a napkin and sprinkle with salt. Let it remain for about an hour, then strain off the water, wash, drain, and season with pepper and salt and a few drops of vine- gar. This vegetable is rather indigestible. Bean Salad. Before beans are used in salad the skin must be removed. Then they are seasoned in the usual manner with chopped and blanched fennel. Stir in a little mayon- naise before serving. Baked Bean Salad. Open a pint can of baked beans, put the contents in a basin, and add the jujce of half a lemon, one finely chopped shallot.23 and the white portion of a stick of celery cut into fine shreds. Mix with mayonnaise or other dressing. Dress neatly into a salad bowl, and garnish with stoned olives, an- chovy fillets, and slices of tomatoes'. Haricot Bean Salad. The white haricot is one of the most nourishing of vegetables, but at the same time it is difficult to digest. When it is dressed as a salad, however, the oil ren- ders it more digestible. Use the same sea- soning as for lentils, adding, if desired, some chopped chives. After cooking the haricots they should be steeped in cold water for a few hours. Mixed Haricot Salad. A mixture of equal quantities of French beans and white haricots is one of the best of salads. Boil separately, and when they have been drained and cooled mix together and season with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, chervil, parsley, and chives. French Bean Salad. Choose very green and young French beans. ^ Cut away the ends, and boil the beans in salt water. The water should boil before the beans are put in if they are to be served quite green. Put them into a season like an ordinary salad. Just before serving sprinkle over some chopped chervil and parsley. Lentil Salad. Among the various fashions of dressing lentils that of serving them as a salad is one of the best and most appetising. Hav- ing washed and allowed the lentils to steep tor at least six hours, they are boiled in salt water with a sprig of parsley and two large24 cwiions in a muslin bag to prevent frag- ments of the onion remaining in the salad and spoiling its appearance. When they are boiled season with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley, and serve in a vegetable dish. Carrot Salad a la Hongroise. Carrots used as salad should be young and very red. After preparing them braise (stew over a quick fire in a covered dish) them in veal broth with a large onion and a sprig of parsley. When they are boiled take them out of the broth and let them cool. Then cut into rather fine slices, and put them in a dish with a seasoning of oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley. Boil also in salt water two or three hand- fuls of freshly shelled peas. Mix these with the carrots with two spoonfuls of mayonnaise. This may be served in the salad bowl or on a soup plate, with a border of jelly and quarters of hard-boiled eggs or plovers’ eggs. Leeks a la Ravigote. Take six young leeks, and cut away the root and leaves. Cut in two lengthways, and put them into a stewpan. Cover with slices of bacon, moisten with white stock, and add a sprig of parsley. When they are tender drain away the liquor and allow them to cool. Serve in a vegetable dish covered with the following sauce :—Mix in a small bowl a teaspoonful of tarragon mustard and two of vmegar. Add gradually some oil, and finally two chopped shallots, salt and pep- per, and chopped parsley. Mixed Radish Salad. This is a most original hors-d'oeuvre. Take a bunch of large red radishes, and25 cut away the leaves and root. Slice them and put them into a bowl. Also slice two or three cooked truffles, and stamp as many dice out of them as possible with a paste or culum cutter. Also boil in salt water some French beans, drain and cool. Chop these into small pieces, mix the three vege- tables, and season with salt, pepper, oil, tarragon vinegar, and chopped chervil. Celery Salad with Truffles. Cut a root of very tender celery into coarse julienne, and half the quantity of truffles which have been stewed for five minutes in Madeira. Season and allow to steep for twenty minutes. Rub a bowl with a clove of garlic, and put into it the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs passed through a sieve. Beat them up with a wooden spoon, adding a table- spoonful of tarragon mustard, oil, vinegar, and chopped chervil and chives. Mix the celery and the truffles ■with this sauce, and serve in a salad bowl. Truffle Salad a la Perigord. Take some very black fresh truffles. Wash, peel, and stew in Madeira for ten minutes. Cut intO' large slices, and put them into a covered dish. Season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. Immediately before serving stir in a little mayonnaise with some French mus- tard, a sprinkling of cayenne, and a little chopped chervil and chives. Truffle and Potato Salad. Cook some fresh-peeled truffles for a few minutes in Madeira. Cut them into thin slices, and mix with the same bulk of cold new potatoes boiled in salt water. Season26 like an ordinary salad with a little chervil, pimpernel, and tarrag-on. Potato Salad. Mealy potatoes cannot be used as salad, as they go into a pur6e in seasoning them. The starchy or waxy sort, such as kidney potatoes, and new potatoes, must be used. When they are boiled strain away the water, peel them, and cut them into slices, seasoning them in a salad bowl before they are completely cold. The seasoning is composed of chervil, parsley, tarragon, and chives in equal quantities, all finely chopped, and oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt in the usual proportions. Potato Salad en Surprise. Wash six fine mealy potatoes (select them as round as possible and of equal size) and pare the skin of each completely round with a small knife. Cook these in the oven, and when baked scoop out the inside of each with the handle of a teaspoon. Also boil a few firm potatoes, such as kidneys, and cut them into small dice, putting them into a dish with the same quantity of cooked truffles and celery, also cut into dice. Sea- son with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, chopped pimpernel, chervil, and a few chopped red peppers. Let them steep for an hour, then mix in some mayonnaise, and stuff the baked potatoes with this, and ser\'’e on a bed of watercress. Potato Salad a VEcarlate. Cut a boiled beetroot into slices, put it into a bowl, season with salt and vinegar, and let it remain for six hours. Steam in their skins six large new or kidney potatoes, peel and slice them, and27 while they are still warm pour over them the beetroot juice. Season them with oil, pepper, salt, and chopped chervil and chives. It is unnecessary to add vinegar, as the beetroot juice contains sufficient o^f it. The potatoes must be entirely covered with the juice. Let them steep in it for the night, and the next day they will be im- pregnated with the juice, also taking its colour. Before serving pour off some of the liquor, which may be used to colour more potatoes. The beetroot may be eaten with salad or served as a hors- d'oeuvre. Potato Salad with Celeriac. New potatoes should be used for this salad. Cook them in salted water, peel them, cut into thin slices, and put them into a basin. Slice two roots of celeriac, and cut each piece into rounds with a cutter. Blanch in salted boiling water for two or three minutes, drain and mix with the potatoes. Season as usual and add a little chopped herbs as garnish. Potato Salad a la Norvegienne. Cook some starchy potatoes in salt water. Drain and cut into slices, season with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, chives, chopped pars- ley, and chervil, capers, fillets of anchovy, and smoked herrings cut into large dice. Add finally slices of smoked reindeer tongue stamped out with a cutter the size of a halfpenny. Serve in a salad bowl, and garnish with a border of anchovy toast. ^ New Potato Salad a VArlequin.- Take very small new potatoes and steam them, or boil in salt water. Drain and sea-28 son with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, then sprinkle them with chopped truffles, ham, chervil, and parsley. This salad is served with cold lamb cut- lets or cold fillet of beef a la Parmentier. Potato Salad with Herrings. Take the fillets of four salt herrings steeped in water and then boiled, six starchy potatoes, three apples, three gher- kins, two tablespoonfuls of capers, salt, pepper, parsley, and chives. Finally, two tablespoonfuls of coarsely-minced beet- root. Cut the herrings, apples, and potatoes into dice. Complete the seasoning with oil and vinegar. Mix all thoroughly to- gether, and serve in a salad bowl. Potato Salad a la Ravigote. Take a large pinch of chopped parsley, the same quantity of chervil and tarragon and of thyme. Blanch these herbs for two minutes in boiling water, then let them cool on a sieve. Drain them well, and grind in a mortar, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Pass this through a hair sieve into a bowl, add gradually two yolks of eggs and a little English mustard. Make a mayonnaise, and give it a sprink- ling of cayenne, and then add to it the other mixture. Use this as a dressing for new potatoes, and serve in a salad bowl. Pickled Cauli-fiower. Choose white and very firm cauliflowers. Divide them into sprigs, and blanch them for a few minutes in boiling water. Cool and drain. Then spread on a large dish, and sprinkle with salt. At the end of twenty-four hours drain them again, put them into an earthenware pot, and pour over them boiling tarragon vinegar. When29 the vinegar is completely cold cover and store in a cool place. Salade a la Beaucaire. Put into the salad bowl a large spoon- ful of mustard and work it up with oil, vinegar, salt, black pepper, and a sprink- ling of cayenne. Add to this seasoning some celeriac, celery, and endives, cut into a fine julienne. Cut also into julienne strips some lean ham, tongue, and two or three rather sour apples and beetroot. Mix well, and decorate with a border of truffles and potato salad. The beetroot should not be added until the last minute, and seasoned separately. Cabbage Salad a la Viennoise. Take off the outer leaves of a cabbage, and cut the rest into quarters. Scoop Dut the heart, stalk, and the coarse ribs, then mince each quarter and blanch in boiling water for ten minutes. Drain in a col- ander, and freshen with cold water. Dry on a napkin, and put the cabbage into a salad bowl. Season as usual, adding some chopped garnish. Crosnes Salad. Crosnes are vegetables of a Japanese origin. They were imported into France and cultivated with success by M. Pailleux de Crosnes. In taste it is something be- tween a Jerusalem artichoke and a globe artichoke, and it is easily cultivated, its principal merit being that it is harvested just when everything else is out of season. Cut the small root off each end of the cros- nes. Wash and cook in salt water for a quarter of an hour, drain and season either with oil, vinegar, or with a light mayon- naise.30 Salsify Salad. Scrape the salsify and cut off the leaves, divide the stalks into short lengths, and throw them into a bowl of fresh water with a little vinegar to prevent them from turn- ing black. Boil in salt water with a little vinegar added, season as usual or with a mayonnaise to which some chopped garnish has been added. Artichoke Salad with Truffles. Pluck the leaves of half a dozen young and tender artichokes, scrape the bottoms, and rub them with lemon juice and mince finely. Put into a bowl and sprinkle with salt. Leave them for twenty minutes, then let them drain on a napkin. Mince the same quantity of preserved truffles, and put all together into a bowl, having first rubbed the interior with a clove of garlic. Pass the yolks of twO‘ hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, and put them into a bowl with a teaspoonful of mustard moistened with oil and tarragon vinegar. Season with salt, pepper, and mix this sauce with the arti- chokes and truffles. Scorsonera Salad. The scorsonera, called also Spanish sal- sify, differs from the salsify properly so- called in its exterior colour, which is black, but the flesh is perfectly white with a very fine texture. After having scraped them throw them intO' a bowl of fresh water, with a little vine- gar to prevent them from turning black. Then boil in salt water and vinegar, to which a spoonful of flour has been added. When they are boiled drain and cool. Cut into short sticks and season them in a salad bowl with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, chervil, and pimpernel, or with mayon- naise.31 Brussels Sprouts Salad. Brussels sprouts appear when other vegetables are difficult to obtain, and are all the more appreciated for that fact. In using them as salad, they must first be washed, picked over, and allowed to steep in salt water for half an hour, then drain, and put them into boiling water to boil. Then drain again, and allow them to cool. The seasoning is as usual, that is to say, three spoonfuls of olive oil to one of tar- ragon vinegar, a little salt, a sprinkling of pepper, and some chopped chervil. Flemish Salad. Boil some Brussels sprouts in salt water, drain them and put them into a bowl; also boil some very red new carrots, cut them into slices, and put them with the Brussels sprouts. Cut a root of celeriac into rather thick slices, and stamp out into rounds the size of a shilling with a vegetable cutter. Cut up in the same way some raw apples and some cooked new potatoes. Cut the fillets of three pickled herrings into strips. Cook a handful of red haricots and two handfuls of green haricots, cut into large lozenges. Season all these vegetables with salt, pepper, paprika, oil, vinegar, chives, c ervil, and tarragon. Mix the vegetables carefully with this seasoning. Ten minutes before serving bind with a few spoonfuls of mayonnaise and serve in a salad bowl. Japanese Salad. Alexandre Dumas, -fils, invented this salad, and one of the characters in Fran- cillon gives the recipe. Cook some new potatoes in meat stock. Cut them into slices and put them into a salad bowl with cooked mussels and a few sprigs of celery heart. There should be rather more pota-32 toes than mussels. Add some fresh truffles cut in slices, salt, pepper, oil, vine- gar, and a little chopped tarragon. Tomato Salad. Choose very red and very firm toma- toes, steep them in boiling water to take off the skin, cut them into slices, and take out the seeds. Place the tomatoes on a dish, and season lightly with salt, pepper, and a few slices of onion, which should be taken away in about an hour. Then drain away all the juice and season the tomatoes as usual, adding a little chopped herbs. This is often served with hors-d'oeuvre. Marrow and Tomato Salad. Here is a recipe for a new salad which is sure to be appreciated by lovers of cooked and green salads. Peel thinly a large firm marrow, cut it in half, remove the seeds, and cook in salted water till almost tender. It must not be cooked quite as much as when served hot. Take up the marrow and drain on a sieve. When cold cut into neat slices. Skin three or four large, ripe, firm tomatoes, and cut them into slices. Pre- pare a mayonnaise or an ordinary salad dressing, but use the best quality of oil (Provence or olive oil). Have ready some green salad lettuce and endive, etc. Ar- range the marrow and tomatoes alter- nately in a round deep dish or flat salad bowl, put a teaspoonful of salad dressing in the centre of the dish, and pile on this the green salad. Pour some dressing over the border, decorate with slices of hard- boiled egg, tarragon leaves, and small cress, and serve.33 Cucumber Salad. Choose green and medium - sized cucumbers, peel them, cut into very thin slices, and sprinkle with fine salt, on a soup plate. Let them remain for an hour, then put them on a co- lander, and rinse them well. Drain, and prepare a seasoning' of oil, vinegfar, pepper, very little salt, a small spoonful of mus- tard, two finely chopped chives, and some chervil. This is usually served as a hors- d’oeuvre. Beetroot Salad. There are three ways of cooking beet- root. They may be boiled in salt water, baked in the oven, or roasted on the ashes. They are usually better roasted or baked than boiled. In cooking them the skin must be intact or they will lose their juice, and with it their fine red colour. To use as a salad, peel and cut into fine slices, season with salt and pepper, and leave for at least an hour in vinegar. Before serving sprinkle lightly with oil. They are fre- quently used as a hors-d'oeuvre. Beetroot is the accompaniment of seve- ral salads, such as escarole, endive, and lettuce. It is prepared in advance with vinegar and not mixed with the salad until the last minute. Catdi-flower Salad a la Marquise. Prepare a caulifiower, and divide it into small sprigs, wash in several waters, and boll in salt water until they are tender. Take care not to over-cook them, or tj;iey will go into a puree in the seasoning. After having drained them on a sieve put them into a bowl with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and chopped chervil. Let them steep in this for half an hour. Then take a34 medium-sized bowl, and arrange them in it symmetrically with a fork. When the bowl is full turn it out into a dish, and the cauliflower will keep the form of the mould in which it was dressed. Just before serv- ing cover it with mayonnaise to which some chopped herbs have been added, and surround it with a border of hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Salted Cucumbers a la Russe. The agoursi is a short green cucumber grown in the countries of the North. It is much esteemed in Russia, where the consumption of them is very large. They are preserved in salt for use in winter. After having washed the cucumbers they are arranged in an earthenware pot with a cover, or in a cask, at the bottom of which a bed of the leaves of black currant, cherry, and oak, and a few sprigs of fennel and tarragon, has been placed. A layer of gher- kins is put on the leaves, then another layer of aromatic leaves, and so on until the cask or pot is full. Then boil some water, adding salt in the proportion of a pound of salt to a bucketful of water, and add a handful of peppercorns. When this brine is quite cold pour it over the cucum- bers, which must be entirely covered. Then tie on an air-tight cover. The cucumbers must be left to steep at least three weeks before they are used. Cucumber Salad in Ribbons. Cut a green cucumber into rather thick slices. Peel them with a sharp knife, cut the cucumber into spirals until the centre containing the seeds is reached. The cu- cumber thus cut resembles a large ribbon, which may be rolled out and cut into short strips, and seasoned as usual.35 Chestnut Salad. One pound of chestnuts, one head of celery, one lettuce (small), one tomato, mayonnaise and parsley. Boil the chestnuts for a few minutes in water. Slit the chest- nuts either before or after boiling-. Drain off the water, and peel them carefully. Now put them in a stewpan, cover with boiling- stock and a bouquet of herbs (small) and a small onion stuck with a clove, and boil them till tender. A stated time cannot be given; some chestnuts require more time than others. Some need an hour or an hour and a half, whilst others are done in half that time. When done, drain and let cool. Wash the celery and trim it; then shred it very finely. Wash the lettuce, and shred also. Cut the chestnuts into slices, and put them in a bowl with the celery. Season with enough mayonnaise to dress the salad. Put this in the middle of a salad bowl, pile up rather high, surround it with finely shredded lettuce to form a kind of border. Cut the tomato into slices, sea- son with a little oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, and place this in the centre or in groups round the chestnuts and celery. Sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. Pickled Onions. Choose small onions, and skin them care- f U- ^ ’^jth a handful o white salt, and let them remain in it for three or four days, stirring them up from sTithtl ‘Minutes in freshen them wi^th cold water, and drain on a nap- kin Then put them into bottles. Boil DeDoerrn ^linutes with some peppercorns, cloves, and mace. Let the36 vinegar cool, and pour it over the onions. Cover the bottles with skin or cork them tightly. Pickled Gherkins. Pickling gherkins is a simple matter, they merely need to be rubbed well with salt and allowed to remain in it for two days, stirring them up from time to time. They are then washed and dried, and put into an earthenware jar with some sprigs of thyme, a few bay-leaves, peppercorns, a little gar- lic, and some small button onions. Cover with vinegar, cork the jar tightly, and keep in a cool place. Instead of cold vinegar it may be used boiling with the gherkins. Walnuts with Vinegar. Fresh walnuts with vinegar are an ap- petising hors - d'oeuvre. After having care- fully skinned them, they are allowed to steep for six hours in vinegar and a little salt. In England they are served thus pre- pared, and served with cheese.37 Chapter III. MEAT, POULTRY & GAME SALADS. Chicken Mayonnaise. Cut up a cold roast or boiled fowl (the lat- ter is preferable) into convenient pieces, and having removed the skin place in a bowl and cover with a seasoning of oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and finely cut chervil and tarragon. Meanwhile boil some eggs hard, plunge into cold water, remove the shells, and cut into quarters. Arrange these as a border round a dish. Take young lettuce, wash and shred the large leaves into coarse juli- enne, but preserve the hearts whole. Pre- pare a thick, rather highly seasoned mayonnaise. Now place within the border of esss a thick layer of shredded lettuce, and on this slices of chicken, choosing the coarser lu’ f^ ^‘th mayonnaise. Add another layer of lettuce and chicken ah mayonnaise, and so on until all has been used up, crowning the pyramid with a nice fillet from the breast Mask the whole with mayonnaise. Cut the let- ThP a border bofoer^f^""' replaced by a tablS ^ macedoine of vege- Mayonnaise. Tak^thS v^k;?fT P'o^^eed as follows : Ke the yolk of two eggs, place in a bowl, DI 38 and add a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, two large pinches of dry mustard powder, and a teaspoonful of vinegar. Beat vigor- ously with a wooden spoon or whisk. Now add very gradually, almost drop by drop, sufficient olive oil to make a very thick sauce, beating rapidly but regularly the whole time. If the mayonnaise curdles it may sometimes be restored to its nor- mal condition by the addition of a little cold veloute sauce or a few drops of water (see the paragraph on mayonnaise). If it remains curdled it must not be used. Mayonnaise of Game. The best pieces of the remains of cold game, such as partridge, pheasants, wild ducks, snipe, teal, and plovers are used. The skin is removed, and they are allowed to remain for an hour in an ordinary salad dressing. Then proceed as for chicken mayonnaise. Serve on a bed of rice with a border of hard-boiled eggs cut into quar- ters. Put some capers between the eggs, and decorate the white with chervil, truffles, or small red radishes. Chicken Salad en Supreme. Cut fillets from two cold fowls, flatten lightly with a wooden bat, season with pepper and salt, and place in a slightly buttered saute-pan, covered with buttered paper, and warm through in the oven. When sufficiently poached place the fillets on a napkin to drain, cut them in halves, and shape into cutlets. Place the twelve fillets thus obtained on a wire grid, and mask each carefully with a chaudfroid sauce, in which finely chopped tarragon has been mixed. When the^ sauce has thoroughly set stick in a short piece of39 thin macaroni at one end to form the cutlet bone. Arrange the cutlets in the usual crown shape on a low rice stand, hollowed in the centre, and fill the well thus formed with an Italian salad seasoned with two dessert spoonfuls of thick mayonnaise. Garnish with cubes or triangles of aspic. Minced Chicken and Cucumber Salad. Peel two cucumbers, cut them into inch pieces, and split these into four length- ways. Place in a bowl, and cover over with three tablespoonfuls of salt, one table- spoonful of castor sugar, and a dessert spoonful of vinegar, and allow to steep for about two hours. Then drain, rinse in cold water, and place in a saucepan of cold water, which bring to the boil. Drain the poached cubes of cucumbers thoroughly, and replace in a clean bowl, sprinkling over them a very little pepper and salt. Meanwhile, remove the meat from the breast of a cold roast or boiled chicken and cut into strips, the size of coarse cucumber together with a few spoonfuls of mayonnaise, to which a little finely chopped tarragon or kindred flavouring herb and a ight sprinkling of cayenne has been added. Chicken Salad Rolls. macaroni. Now mix the chicken and Take some halfpenny rolls, cut a pi the size of a flonn out of the upper cri and remove the rn,n-.K r,-— . •40 Calves' Brains a la Ravi gate. After having steeped the brains in cold water for at least an hour take off the skin and then boil them for a quarter of an hour in a stewpan with salt, two spoonfuls of white vinegar, a few peppercorns, an onion cut in rings, a sprig of parsley, a bunch of thyme, and a few bay-leaves. When the brains are cooked, drained and cold, serve on a dish with ravigote sauce.* Chicken Crapaudine a la Tartare. Take a young chicken and cut it along the back in order to take away the skin, which must be done completely. Disjoint the l^s, draw back the wings, and flatten the breast, so that the chicken has a uni- form surface. Season with salt and pep- per, cover completely with oiled butter, then put on each side a layer of new bread- crumbs, pressing it on with the blade of a large knife. Twenty minutes before serv- ing grill it on a slow fire, turning it from time to time. Serve with a sauce Tartare. Ducks with Mayonnaise a la Bigarade. A duck may be cooked especially for this dish, but it is a useful way of serving the remains of a cold one. The duck is cut up without removing the skin, which is the most succulent part. It is then steeped in oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, with an onion cut in slices and a few sprigs of parsley. At the end of half an hour the duck is taken out of this dressing and drained on a napkin. Make a mayonnaise, and in- stead of chopped herbs add to it an orange bigarade, that is to say, a julienne of the rind of one or two oranges with the white entirely removed, and then boiled in salt * The recipes for the sauces in these recipes are given in a succeeding chapter.41 water for a quarter of an hour.* Part of the blgarade is kept in reserve to ornament the dish. The mayonnaise is then put over the duck, and it is served with a border of hard-boiled eggs and olives. The eggs are cut in quarters, and the stones of the olives are removed. On each egg put a thin slice of red radish, and in each olive put a small leaf from the heart of a lettuce or a sprig of tarragon. The olives should be made to adhere to the dish by means of a little aspic or butter. Pigeon Mayonnaise. Braise three pigeons in good stock, to which a glass of Madeira has been added. When they are cooked let them cool in the stock. Then cut the legs and wings from each pigeon and put the carcase aside. Place watercress or lettuce in the bottom of a dish, and put a layer of pigeon over this, masked with mayonnaise. Alternate the salad, pigeon, and sauce, and serve with a border of aspic jelly or hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. Calves’ Feet a I’Huile. Calves’ feet which have been used to make calves’ feet jelly may be served in several ways. One of the best is to dress them with ravigote sauce or simply with oil, like calves’ head. When the feet are cooked all the bones are taken out, and the meat is put on a large dish so that it may be properly dres.scd when cold. Immedi- ately before serving it is warmed in a little stock, and the sauce is served separately. Veal Salad with Bacon. Cold roast veal may be made into a salad in the following manner :—Boil a piece of * The bigarade is really the bitter or Seville orange.42 fat smoked bacon about the size of the veal in water. When it is boiled and cooled cut it into largfe dice with the veal, and mix tog^ether. Add a bunch of cress and the white part of a stick of celery cut into small pieces. Season with chopped herbs, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. Stir the salad up well before serving. Calf's Head a I’Huile. Cook a calf’s head in stock and garnish it with parsley on a dish. Send it to table with a sauce served separately made with a little mustard, two spoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, salt, pepper, chopped capers, and shallot or onion chopped very fine and blanched, and parsley. Beef Salad with Potatoes. Slice thinly some well-boiled beef, put it into a deep dish or into a salad bowl with the same quantity of cold new or kidney potatoes. Add some oil and vinegar, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, chopped herbs, and a little cayenne. Mix thoroughly together. The beef salad may be made in an in- finity of ways. The potatoes may be re- placed by tomatoes in fine slices, or hard- boiled eggs, watercress, or cress, celery, lentils, haricot beans, or even truffles may be added. Beef Vinaigrette. Cut into thin slices some cold boiled beef and allow it to steep for an hour in a sufficiency of oil and vinegar to impregnate the whole, with a spoonful of mustard added. Add salt, pepper, some chopped chervil, parsley, and tarragon. According to taste, .some chopped chives and gherkins43 may be added, or the salad bowl may even be rubbed with g^arlic. Slices of Beef Fillet with Horse-radish. Cut into slices the remains of a braised fillet of beef, and put them into a dish. Season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and spread over the meat some slices of onions, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a few bay-leaves. Let it remain for an hour, then drain the slices of beef, and arrange them on a dish. Serve with cold horse- radish sauce. Cold Horse-radish Sauce. This sauce is used in England with roast beef or with cold meat. To make it take a root of horse-radish and scrape with a knife, then grate with a cheese-grater, and put the pulp thus obtained intO' a bowl. Add to it salt, pepper, the same quantity of new breadcrumbs passed through a sieve, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, the same quantity of vinegar, and three or four spoonfuls of cream. This sauce should have the consistency of mayonnaise, and should be made an hour before serving. Veal and Tongue Salad. Cut the remains of the roast veal into small pieces and put them into a salad bowl with the same quantity of tongue, a few chopped gherkins, and slices of celeriac stamped into rounds the size of a shilling with a cutter. Season with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, chervil, tarragon, and thoroughly mix. Just before serving bind with two or three spoonfuls of mayon- naise.44 Wild 'Duck a la Cumberland. Cut up a cold wild duck, and put the pieces into a dish, season them with Cum- berland sauce. Allow the duck to remain in this an hour before serving-. Remoulade of Ox-cheek. Ox-cheek makes an excellent broth, which many appreciate as much as ox-tail soup. After boiling for at least four hours in a stock-pot with vegetables as for a pot- au-feu, the beef is drained and put into a press. When it is quite cold it is cut into fine and uniform slices and steeped in oil and vinegar with pepper and salt for an hour. Serve the slices of beef in a deep dish masked with remoulade sauce. Ox-cheek Salad a la Hongroise. The bones having been removed, the ox- cheek is rubbed thoroughly with salt and put into a deep dish in salt for a week. It is then boiled with plenty of water with vegetables and a sprig of parsley for five hours. This makes an excellent soup, the meat is cut into dice and put into a salad bowl with cold cooked new or kidney pota- toes, also cut into dice, and the same quan- tity of beetroot and celeriac, blanched for five or six minutes in salt water. Mix all the vegetables together, and season them with salad dressing and a spoonful of whole capers. Ox-cheek Salad a la Romaine. Cut up intO' julienne some well boiled cold ox-cheek, poach four egg yolks in buttered moulds in the bain-marie, and cut these also into coarse julienne when they are cold. Cut up in the same way three large truffles and an equal quantity of tongue.45 Put all the ingredients together into a dish, and season with vinegar, oil, salt, pepper, chives, chervil, and tarragon. Mince separately in the same way the leaves of a cos lettuce, and mix with the other ingredi- ents just before serving. Picnic Salad. An excellent thing for a picnic, and a dish that can be carried about without risk, is a chicken salad. A very simple and in- genous method of packing it is to procure a well-baked loaf. Cut the upper crust in a single slice, take out the crumb, which may be used for bread and butter pudding, pack the interior with the salad, and re- place the lid. To’ make the salad, cut up a cold boiled or roast chicken, and season it in a bowl with salt, pepper, vinegar, oil, chervil, and terragon, and add some coarsely cut cos lettuce. Mix the whole well together. In packing this into the loaf spread butter around to prevent the seasoning from oozing out, then put in the salad, and cover with a layer of mayon- naise. The loaf can be wrapped in paper and put into the picnic basket. Polish Salad. This salad is made with new potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, anchovies, ham, gherkins, celery, and cos lettuce. Cut all these ingredients into coarse julienne. Mix them all with mayonnaise to which some chopped herbs have been added and a little cayenne. Serve the salad with a border of hard-boiled eggs alternated with stoned olives.46 Chapter IV. FISH SALADS. Salmon Mayonnaise. Divide some cooked salmon, free from skin and bone, into pieces of even size and let them steep in a little tarragon vinegar for an hour. Then drain on a napkin. Wash two lettuces, and cut the leaves into strips, keeping the hearts in re- serve. Make a mayonnaise. Boil some eggs for ten minutes, shell them, and when they are cold cut them into quarters and form a border of them round the lettuce, on which arrange the pieces ofsalmon with a spoonful of mayonnaise on each. Put a fresh bed of salad over this, then more sal- mon, and so on. Cover the whole with the rest of the mayonnaise, to which a little chopped tarragon has been added, and de- corate with anchovies. The lettuce hearts are cut into quarters and served as a border with the egg. Trout with Green Sauce. Boil two large trout in court-bouillon*. Take off the skin and let them go cold. Then coat with a thin layer of fresh but- ter and decorate the trout with very thin slices of truffle, so as to imi- tate the scales of the fish. The trout are served on a bed of rice, the base of which is decorated with spoonfuls ♦ Court bouillon is a stock composed of water and wine, to which is added kitchen herbs and spices partly fried in butter. —Tr.47 of aspic jelly. The green mayonnaise is served separately in a sauceboat, and is made as follows : —Blanch a few sprigs of parsley, the same quantity of chervil and tarragon, and four or five chives. Drain and press out all the moisture, then pound these herbs up in a mortar with a spoonful of white sauce. Pass through a hair sieve and mix with mayonnaise. Stuifed "Ed a la Tartare. Clean a large eel and cut it lengthways to take out the backbone, then spread it out and, after dusting it with pepper and salt, stuff it with a fish stuffing rather highly seasoned, and with a pinch of spice, a few chopped truffles, and anchovies (fillets) cut into small pieces. Mould the eel in its original shape, and wrap it in a napkin, tying up the two ends with a piece of string. Then put it into a stewpan and braise it in rich stock flavoured wfth vege- tables. At the end of half an hour take the pan off the fire and allow the eel to cool in the stock. When quite cold untie the nap- kin and drain the eel on another serviette. Serve it with sauce Tartare. Chaudfroid of Fillets of Sole a la Ravigote. Cook the fillets of two soles in butter, season themi, and add a squeeze of lemon. Drain when they are cooked, and press them between two plates. When cold cut each fillet in two. Prepare a chaudfroid sauce with a bech- amel of fish, to which a little very strong white meat jelly and a puree of chennl, parsley, and tarragon in equal quantities has been added. The sauce must be ,rather highly seasoned. IS cooled on ice, and when it begins to thicken each fillet is dipped in it48 and arranged on a dish. Serve it on a bed of rice, and garnish with lettuce dressed with a little mayonnaise reddened with lobster or crawfish coral. Instead of this sauce the fillets may be served with mayon- naise d la gelee. Fillets of Sole Mayonnaise. Arrange the fillets of two or three soles on a buttered dish. Season them, and add a few drops of lemon juice. Cover with but- tered paper, and bake them in the oven. When thoroughly cooked drain them and press them between two plates. When cold divide them in two and arrange them as a pyramid in the middle of a border of aspic jelly or the quarters of hard-boiled eggs, or they may be arranged in the form of a crown on a bed of rice. In the first case, arrange with it a border of lettuce; in the latter, garnish the centre of the crown with a Russian salad. Cover the fillets with mayonnaise before serving. Turbot Mayonnaise. Cut up a small cooked turbot into equal- sized pieces and season on a dish with salt, pepper, and tarragon vinegar. Let the fish steep in this for about an hour. To arrange it in a pyramid on a bed of lettuce leaves, alternating the salad and the fish, and cover with mayonnaise to which a little chopped tarragon has been added. De- corate the border with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, and lettuce hearts. Strew a few capers over the salad after the mayon- naise has been put on. Lobster Mayonnaise. Choose a medium-sized lobster, and boil it in salt water for thirty minutes. Drain, and when completely cold take off the49 claws and legs and split the tail. If there is any coral in the lobster put them on one side. Break the claws and the shell care- fully and take out the flesh. Cut this up in uniform pieces, and put them on a large dish, season with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and let them steep in it for about an hour. Prepare a rather highly flavoured mayon- naise and wash three lettuces, putting the hearts on one side. Drain the lobster and the lettuces, and cut the latter into coarse julienne, and arrange it on a dish. Put the pieces of lobster on the lettuce, and give them a coating of mayonnaise, alter- nating the lettuce and lobster until a pyra- mid is formed, leaving the best pieces of lobster for the outside. Then cover the whole with mayonnaise and ornament the base with hard eggs cut in quarters and the hearts of the lettuces. The lobster coral should be chopped up finely and sprinkled over the final dressing of mayonnaise, or it may be pounded with butter, passed through a hair sieve, and used tO' decorate the border. Some sprigs of tarragon and fillets of anchovies arranged with taste help to give this mayonnaise an appetising appearance. Lobster Salad a la Lucullus. Cut up the meat from the claws and tail of one or two lobsters into small pieces, slice five or six truffles cooked in cham- pagne. Put these together in a salad bowl with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, chopped chervil, and tarragon, and the champagne the truffles were cooked in. Let them steep for an hour, and before serving drain and cover with mayonnaise. Strew over the surface the lobster coral, garnish with hearts of lettuce cut in two and plovers’ egrg-s.50 Troisier en Coquilles. Split a boiled lobster lengthways and break the claws. Take out the flesh and cut it into small dice. Put this, with two or three chopped gherkins, into a bowl with a dessert spoonful of capers, and season with salt, cayenne pepper, oil, and vinegar. Dust with chopped chervil and tarragon, and let it remain for an hour. Immediately before serving drain off the liquid, bind with a few spoonfuls of mayonnaise, and serve in silver or porcelain shells or in small scal- lop shells. Arrange these on a dish on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Strew over each some chopped lobster coral, and decorate the centre with a slice of truffle. Mackerel Fillets with Fennel Sauce. Fillet three mackerel of medium size, split each and arrange them in a well-but- tered dish, first sprinkling it with a little sauce. Season and add a squeeze of lemon. Cover with buttered paper and bake for a quarter of an hour. Take off the paper and skin the fish with a knife, which can easily be done. Drain on a sieve, and when the fish is quite cold put it into a dish, and sea- son with oil and vinegar. Let it steep ^ir an hour or two, then drain anew, and ar- range it in the form of a crown on a round dish. Cover with mayonnaise to which chopped and blanched fennel has been added. Crab a VAnglaise. The English have a special way of pre- paring crab. After having boiled it in salted water for half an hour it is allowed to cool. When cold the claws and legs are taken off and the crab is opened. All the interior is taken out and mixed with vine-51 gar, oil, English mustard, salt, and cay- enne pepper. The flesh from the claws is pulled into threads with two forks and added. The hollow shell of the crab is washed out and filled with the dressed crab. The surface is smoothed down with the blade of a knife and ornamented with chopped yolk of egg, parsley, and lobster coral. As a rule, the contents of two' crabs fill a single shell. The claws are put as a border to the dressed crab. Frown Tartlets a la Diable. Take a dozen well-baked tartlet cases and pick half a pint of prawns. Wash them and drain. Make a mayonnaise with two yolks, and give it a good teaspoonful of mustard and a sprinkling of cayenne pep- per. Mix the prawns with this sauce and fill the cases, which may be served as hors d'ceuvre. Strew over each some chopped lobster coral or ^ little chopped tarragon. Sportsman's Lobster Salad. Choose a large live lobster and boil it in salt water after the English fashion or in stock in the French way. Allow it to boil for half an hour, then drain and let it grow cold. Split it open, take out the flesh, and put the eggs on one side. Cut the flesh of the tail into small pieces, and arrange on a large dish, seasoning them with salt, pep- per, oil, and vinegar. Bake a paste pie case large enough to hold the lobster. When this crust is baked raise the cover carefully and take out the lentils or what- ever else has been used to keep the crust in shape. Clean the interior and let the crust get cold, then put at the bottom a ed of lettuce leaf, and over this a layer of lobster covered with mayonnaise to which chopped lobster coral and tarragon has52 been added, and so until the pie-crust is filled, finishing with a layer of lettuce. Then put on the lid. It is preferable not to season the lettuce, as it then retains its crispness. Oysters en Coquilles a la Tartare. Take two dozen large oysters and after opening them put them on the fire until they have begun to simmer, then drain ind reserve the liquid, which may be used for a fish sauce. Then cut up the oysters in quarters, and mix with two or three spoon- fuls of Tartar sauce. Serve in silver or porcelain shells on a dish covered with a napkin. Decorate each with capers and fillets of anchovies. Tunny Fish in Oil. Cut the tunny into thick slices, wash well, and boil in salted water with a few sprigs of fennel until the backbone begins to detach itself from the flesh. Then drain on a sieve and allow to cool. Take off the skin and the backbone, and put the pieces into tin boxes, and fill up with olive oil. Solder on the cover, put the boxes into the bain-marie, and give them an hour’s boil. The tunny may be kept in oil for two or three weeks without being canned in this way. The pieces when cold after cooking may simply be put into earthenware jars and covered with oil. The tops are covered with bladder, and the jars are kept in a cool place. Mussels a la Tartare. Cook in the usual way three dozen fine mussels, take them out of the shell, and Itt them get cold in their broth. Then drain. Make some Tartar sauce and dip each mussel in it with a fork, replacing it then in53 the empty shell. Strew over each a little lobster egg chopped and pass^ through a sieve, and serve an anchovy with each. Oysters with Shallot Sauce. Sometimes raw oysters are served with a few shallots chopped very finely, mi iced with vinegar and pepper. Personally, I do not approve of this way of serving oysters, as the raw shallot not only gives the breath a disagreeable odour, but spoils the flavour of the bivalve. Periwhikles and Whelks in Vinegar. These shellfish, little in demand in h'gh- class households, can be eaten raw, like oysters, and are not toi be despised. Mus- sels may be eaten in the same way. They are shelled and seasoned with vinegar and pepper, and at times can be served as hors- d'oeuvre. Clams miay be dressed in a similar manner. Crayfish a la Mirepoix. Slice into a stewpan a carrot, three shal- lots, and two onions. Add a sprig of thyme, half a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, a sprig of parsley, two cloves, a little mace, salt, and a sprinkling of cayenne pepper. Moisten with a gill of white wine, with the same quantity of vinegar, and boil over a quick fire. When boiling put in the cray- fish, put on the cover, and boil for ten minutes longer, shaking up the pan from tirne to time. Allow the crayfish tO' cool in this broth, then take them out and serve. Scallops a la Mayonnaise. Take six medium-sized scallops, open them, and put the flesh intO' a stewpan with a glass of white wine. Let them sim- mer. for two or three minutes over a quick E54 fire, drain anl preserve the broth which may be used for a fish soup. Wash the fish in cold water, and take out the black spark. Cut the remainder of the flesh into large dice, and put them into a bowl. Mix v.?ith a few spoonfuls of mayonnaise to which some chopped herbs have been added. Choose six of the shells and wash them well, then fill them with the mixture. De- corate with anchovies, capers, and slices of truffle. Serve on a dish covered wi<^h a napkin and garnish with parsley. Mayonnaise of Crayfish a la GeUe. The crayfish lends itself to numerous culinary combinations, and a favourite one is the crayfish salad. A border of fish jelly garnished with crayfish tails symmetrically arranged has a charming effect, and har- monises well with a Russian salad or a mayonnaise of filleted sole. The crayfish tails may also be put into puff-paste cases on a bed of rice, and served with mayon- naise. Prawns a la Duchesse. Pick five or six dozen fine prawns, put them into a bowl with two tablespoonfuls of capers, and mix them with mayonnaise coloured with a little essence of anchovies or lobster eggs. Make a light paste, roll it out, and stamp out two dozen rounds, and bake them in a slow oven. When they are baked and cooled garnish them with the prawns. Brioches with Oysters. Make a mayonnaise of the yolks of two eggs rather highly seasoned, and mix it with chopped herbs such as chervil, chives, and marjoram, and a few whole capers. Open three dozen oysters, and blanch them55 in their juice. As soon as they simmer drain and beard them. Bake a dozen small brioches the size of a small egg, and hol- low them out. Put in the inside of each a little mayonnaise to begin with, then three oysters, and cover them with mayonnaise. Strew on the surface a little lo'bster coral passed through a hair sieve or chopped truffle. Pickled Herring a la Suedoise. Choose some fine pickled herrings, clean them, and boil in water for about five minutes. Drain, remove the skin and the backbones, and let them souse in oil and vinegar for an hour. Then take them out, arrange them on a dish, and cover with sauce remoulade. Soused Fresh Herrings. Prepare a brine (marinade) with a carrot, an onion, two shallots, parsley, thyme, bay- leaf, marjoram, peppercorns, salt, cori- ander, and a small clove of garlic. Boil these ingredients for a quarter of an hour in white wine and vinegar in equal pro- portions. Now clean some fresh herrings, cut off the head and the fins, and leave them in salt for some hours. Put them in a stewpan, pour the boiling brine over them, and put the pan on the fire until the first boil. Then take off and let the her- rings cool in the brine. The herrings are served in this liquor. Soused Mackerel. Clean the mackerel, wash them, and put them into a fish-kettle. Cover them with cold water, adding a little salt and vinegar. Put them on the fire, and let them boil for welve or fifteen minutes, drain, and when they are nearly cold put them into vinegar56 with tarragon, two cloves, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, salt, peppercorns, and an onion cut in rings, and let them souse in this for twelve hours. Mackerel so pre- pared may be served with mayonnaise to which chopped fennel has been added. Cold Salmon a VHuile. Cold salmon is always served with a sauce made with oil and vinegar, such as tartare, Ravigote, remoulade, vinaigrette, or mayonnaise. The fish is arranged on a dish and garnished with watercress or let- tuce, and the sauce is served separately. If it is the remains of a salmon it should be cut into pieces, and these should be steeped in oil and vinegar for an hour before being dressed. Salted Anchovies. Anchovies are salted for preserving usually in spring. After having cut off the heads put the fish on to a large dish and cover with salt. Leave them for twenty- four hours. At the end of this time drain them and prepare in a bowl a mixture of salt with a little cinnabar, tO' give the fish a red colour. Now take an earthenware jar or a small barrel, and put a layer of the coloured salt at the bottom, fhen a close layer of fish. Cover with salt, and so on until the jar or barrel is full, taking care that the last layer is of salt. Put on the top a cover which will just fit inside the barrel or jar, and put a weight on it to press lightly on the fish. At the end of a few days the anchovies will be in brine ; the oil which rises to the surface must be carefully skimmed off, otherwise it will give the fish a rancid taste. In six weeks the fish will be ready for use. The brine must be watched from time to time, and what is lost57 by evaporation must be replaced with fresh brine prepared by saturating boiling- water with salt. Allow the new brine to cool be- fore using. Sardines in Oil a la Menagere. Clean and wipe some sardines, cut off the heads and fry them for five or six minutes without browing. Drain them, then put them into glass jars, and cover with good olive oil. Cover the jars with parchment or bladder, and keep in a cool place. Sardines prepared in this way will keep good for three or four months. Soused Soles a la Dieppoise. Boil twoi medium-sized soles in salted water. Fillet them and arrange on a deep dish. Prepare a brine of oil, vinegar, pep- per, salt, a few sprigs of parsley, a little thyme, and two onions cut in rings. Pour this over the fillets, and let them steep in it two hours before serving. Serve with mayonnaise to which chopped herbs have been added. Zakouskis of Eggs with Shrimps. Boil six eggs for ten minutes, cool and , shell. Cut the twO' extremities and with a paste cutter scoop out the yolk and a part of the white of the interior. Arrange the eggs thus hollowed out on a thin border of lobster or achovy butter. Prepare a thick mayonnaise, and colour it with chopped lobster coral passed through a hair sieve. Season with salt and cayenne pepper, and mix with prawns or shrimps cut in two and a few chopped truffles. Put this preparation into the eggs, allowing it to protrude a little at the open- ing. Place on each egg an anchovy fillet rolled into a ring, and in the centre of this58 put a small sprig of tarragon or chervil. Arrange on the border of butter, and sur- round with chopped jelly. T0 serve Prawns. Another elegant and original way of serving prawns consists in suspending them by the tail around a large wine-glass. The glass is put on a dish garnished with parsley, and just before serving is filled with water to the brim. The tail then acts as a syphon, and the water runs out of the glass and drips on to the dish, producing a very picturesque effect. Prawns served in this way should be chosen of equal size. Anchovy Salad. Fillet some Gorgona anchovies, cut each fillet in two lengthwise, and arrange in lat- tice fashion on small glass dishes. Gar- nish with quarters or slices of hard-boiled eggs and capers. Pour over a little olive oil, sprinkle with chopped chives or pars- ley, and serve.59 Chapter V. FRUIT SALADS. Strictly speaking, the term salad should be applied only to dishes the seasoning of which consists simply of oil, pepper, vine- gar, and especially salt, since the word salad comes from the Latin word sal, salt. Nevertheless it has been very generally used to describe raw fruit simply sprinkled with sugar, moistened with liqueurs, and flavoured with any aromatic substances. The word has probably been used in order to differentiate this dessert dish from the compote which is usually composed simply of fruits stewed in syrup. Strawberries. Strawberries may be served without pre- paration in a fruit dish, but a more elegant way is to arrange them in a bowl with the stalk towards the centre, and a bed of vine leaves between each layer of fruit. Castor sugar is served separately. Salad of Wild Strawberries. The small wild strawberrv is the best for a salad. The preparation is very simple. The strawberries are picked and put into a salad bowl a few minutes before serving with a sufficiency of sugar and a glass or two of white or red wine. They are care- fully stirred up to mix the wine and the sugar, and turned into a fruit dish. The wine may be replaced by kirsch or Madeira.6o Strawberry Salad a la Chantilly. Choose a fine variety of strawberry for this dish. Wash them free from dust, then pick them, put them into a bowl with kirsch and lemon juic£ and sprinkle lightly with sugar. Let th^ steep in this for half an hour, and serve them in a glass fruit, dish with half a pint of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Pineapple Salad with Strawberries. Peel a pineapple and cut it into thin slices. Cut these in two and stamp out the hard part of the centre with a round cutter. Blanch for five minutes in a thin syrup, then drain and allow them to steep for twenty minutes in maraschino and sugar. Take half a pound of fine red straw- berries, pick them and put them into a bowl with some castor sugar and two glasses of champagne. Mix the fruit well with the wine simply by shaking the bowl, and without touching them with a spoon. Ten minutes in this liquor is sufficient. Take the slices of pineapple one by one with a fork and arrange them in a circle in a deep fruit dish. Fill the hollow thus formed with the strawberries, and add the two syrups mixed together. Melon Salad with Strawberries. Cut off carefully and in a single piece the top of a ripe melon, and scoop out the seeds. Then take out the ripe flesh with a spoon. Cut it into dice, and put them into a bowl with sugar and vanilla, and cover them with Madeira. Pick half a pound of strawberries and put them into a salad bowl with sugar and vanilla, and let them macerate for a quarter of an hour. Now mix the melon pulp and the strawberries6i with their syrups and put the whole into the melon and stand it on ice until it is served. Raspberry Vinegar. Pick a pound of very ripe red raspber- ries and put them into an earthenware jar. Pour over the fruit a pint of wine vinegar, and leave it for four or five days, then pour out on tO' a hair sieve on to a dish, and leave the raspberries to drain without pressing them for an hour. Weigh two pounds of sugar, and put it into a copper pan with the vinegar. When the sugar has dissolved put the pan on the fire and reduce the syrup until it is rather thick, then bottle it. Banana Salad. Skin the bananas and cut them in thick rounds, sprinkle with castor and vanilla sugar and some kirsch. Let them steep in this for half an hour, and serve in a fruit dish. Macedoine of Fruit with Maraschino. This salad is made with a mixture of fruit of several varieties, such as white and black grapes, peaches, apricots, and oranges in quarters, white and red cur- rants, strawberries, raspberries, cherries, and pineapple. Stone the grapes and cur- rants. Remove the stalks from the straw- berries, raspberries, peaches, and apricots, and cut these latter into quarters. Stone the cherries, cut the pineapple into equal sized pieces, and skin the oranges, remov- ing all the white pith carefully, divid- ing them into quarters and taking out the pips._ Mix all the fruit in a bowl with castor sugar, kirsch, and maraschino. Avoid touching it with a spoon and stir it simply62 by shakings the dish. Then put on ice until it is served. The quantity of sugar and liqueur used depends upon the amount of fruit. Orange Salad a la Bourgeoise. Choose three rather thick - skinned oranges. Cut into fine slices and remove the pips, then put the slices into a fruit dish with a claret-glass of good cognac, and about an ounce and a quarter of castor sugar. Let the oranges steep half an hour before serving. Rub a piece of sugar over the peel of one of tfie oranges before cut- ting it. Crush this sugar and mix it with the cognac. Orange and Apple Salad. Peel three fine apples and the same num- ber of juicy oranges. Cut them into slices of the same thickness. Take out the orange pips and core the apples. Pour into a bowl a claret-glass of syrup flivoured with kirsch or rum, and add about an ounce and a quarter of castor sugar. Put in the sliced fruit and let it steep for half an hour. Then arrange it in a fruit dish, placing a brandy cherry in the centre of each slice of apple. Currant Salad in Orange Baskets. Choose six oranges of the same size, and with a small knife cut them so as to form small baskets with the skin, leaving a small strip to form the handle. Then take out the flesh of the orange with a small spoon and wash and drain the basket. Pick and stone a handful of red and the same quantity of white currants, and put them into a basin with about an ounce of castor sugar, a small glass of maraschino, and the same quantity of kirsch. Let the cur- rants steep in this for twenty minutes, then fill the baskets with them and serve on a napkin.63 Mandarin Salad. Peel a dozen mandarins and; quarter them, taking out the pips. Put them into a basin with some castor sugar and cognac. Let them steep in this for an hour, and serve in a salad bowl or fruit dish. In the latter case they should be decorated with glac6 or candied cherries. Currant and Raspberry Salad. Pick half a pound of white and red cur- rants and the same quantity of raspberries. Put these into a salad bowl with a glass of maraschino and about an ounce and a half of castor sugar. Mix by shaking the bowl without touching the fruit with a spoon. Green Walnut Salad. Green walnuts are ready about the mid- dle of August. After taking them from the husk they are split in two and put into a bowl with salt water to which a little vine- gar has been added tO' prevent them from turning black. Now stone a bunch of green grapes, and pound them, in a mortar with two cloves of garlic, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Pass the juice thus obtained through a strainer, add a little vinegar to it, and after draining the wal- nuts pour it over them. This is served as a hors d'auvre. Melon Salad a VOrientale. Choose a small ripe lemon; with a sharp knife skin it and cut away the hard part which cannot be eaten. Then cut it length- ways in slices with the seed still attached. Spread these on a large plate, sprinkle with sugar, and moisten with rum. Let them steep for half an hour. Then put the slices together in the original form of the melon without the skin, and put it on ice until it is served.64 Orange Salad a la Chinoise. The Chinese peel their oranges and cut them into slices as we do, but they sub- stitute oil for cognac, salt for sugar, and lemon juice for vinegar. The slices of oranges are put into a bowl with fresh wal- nuts picked and steeped in vinegar, then oil, salt, ginger, and lemon-juice is added. Apple Salad a la Moscovite. Boil some peppercorns, three bay-leaves, a dozen cloves, and some honey in vinegar. When this is cold arrange the apples in layers in a small cask, separating the layers with rye straw. When the cask is full pour in the liquor, which should en- tirely cover the apples. Close the cask, which should be air tight, and put into a cool place. Apples are served this way in winter in place of salad. Pears, apri- cots, peaches, and plums may be prepared in the same way, replacing the straw by vine, cherry, or fig leaves. Slices of Melon in Salad. Skin a ripe melon, removing the hard part of the flesh. Cut the eatable part into thick slices. Spread these on a dish and season them ten minutes before serving with salt, pepper, and lemon juice or vine- gar. Then arrange them on an oval dish. Marinade of Small Melons. Wash some small melons which have not ripened and prick them, using only those about the size of a walnut. Then put them into a brine, leaving them for six or eight hours, stirring them up from time to time. Put into a jar some small onions, a little tarragon, four cloves, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some peppercorns. Then put in the melons and cover with white vinegar. They will be ready for use in about a fortnight’s time.65 Salade Cauchoise. Two pears, two russet apples, and two Seville oranges. Peel the pears and the apples and cut them in quarters. Take away the pips and the core, then shred them finely lengthways, so as to get slices in the form of a half-moon. Remove the skin and white part of the oranges, and divide them into quarters, taking off the skin which separates the quarters and re- moving the pips. Place the fruit thus pre- pared in a salad bowl with castor sugar and twO' or three glasses of brandy, and let them steep in it for an hour, shaking the bowl from time tO' time. Chrysanthemum Salad. Knowing the eccentric manners and tastes of the Japanese, it is not astonishing to find that they use chrysanthemum, flowers as a salad, seasoning them like let- tuce with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, after having wash^ and drained them. It seems that this is a popular dish, and at Yokohama when the chrysanthemum is in flower all the greengrocers sell them care- fully washed and picked. The most ap- preciated variety is that with dark yellow flowers. Nasturiium Salad. Salads are sometimes decorated with the flower of the nasturtium. It is looked upon rather as an ornament than as a part of the salad itself, as it has no particular taste. The buds and young seeds can be pre- served in vinegar like capers and are used in seasoning certain salads.Chapter VI. SALAD SAUCES, DRESSINGS AND CONDIMENTS. Mayonnaise. Of all the cold sauces used either with meat or fish or to season salads the best known, the most popular, and the most agreeable to the palate is without doubt mayonnaise. Spanish sauce is the funda- mental type of brown sauces ; veloute is the prototype of white sauces, and mayonnaise is the sauce from which the cold sauces are derived. Phileas Gilbert in one of his chronicles says: —■“ Mayonnaise is the planet around which numerous satellites gravitate, the highway from which many paths run off.” The ingredients which enter into the composition of mayonnaise properly so-called are few in number, easily manipulated, and successful preparation is simple enough if certain conditions are ob- served, otherwise the result is disastrous. The first of these rules is to use first-class ingredients, especially the oil, which is the soul of the sauce. The vinegar also must be the best possible, and a good brand of mus- tard chosen. As for the pepper it should be ground immediately before use. The mayonnaise of course takes the colour of the chopped herbs that are used to season it; thus with a little chervil and tarragon it becomes sauce verte (green sauce); with chopped truffles it is la sauce demi-deuil (half mourning); it takes the name of sauce6/ cardinals when lobster coral is added, and it is called Portuguese when mixed with to- mato ; and indienne when some curry is put into it. The simple mayonnaise, however, consists merely of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, a little mustard, and the yolk of an egg. There has been much argument as to how the name mayonnaise came to be given to this sauce. One version is that it is a corruption of bayonnaise, from the town of Bayonne, where it originated. Another version is that the name is really mahonnaise, and to have been given in hon- our of Marshal Richelieu after the taking of Port Mahon, the capital of Minorca, which the Duke made himself master of after having beaten the English. Another version attributes the invention of this sauce to Mayenne, and insists that the name was originally mayennaise. Careme says that we ought to say magnonnaise, and that it comes from the verb manier from the energetic stirring the sauce undergoes in course of preparation. He contradicts this himself in another chapter of his book, where), in enumerating a list of dishes named after the localities where they ori- ginated, he cites the word magnonnaise as being derived from the town of Magnon, although at the same time there is no' such town in France. The philologists dispute every point except that the sauce is the most stimulating, the most unctuous, and the most appetising of all cold sauces. Plain Mayonnaise. The mayonnaise is the terror of unskilled cooks. To believe them, there are all sorts of difficulties in making it. The work is long and troublesome, and the success of the result is always problematic. Some pretend that it can only be made over ice, and that the sauce must always be stirrede.s the same way. (Both these are gross errors.) It is preferable to operate in the warmth rather than in complete cold, as the oil in congealing is an obstacle in the assimila- tion of the liquid with the yolk and vine- gar and the sauce rapidly decomposes. As for the belief that the spoon or whisk should be turned one way rather than the other, it is too ridiculous to trouble our- selves with. The recipe herewith may be considered infallible, not only because the ingredients are different to those ordinarily employed, but because of the method of operating and mixing the ingredients. Put into a round bowl the yolks of two eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, half this quantity of white pepper, a teaspoonful of mustard, and the same of vinegar. Mix these ingredients vigorously with a small metal whisk, add the oil gradually without stopping stirring. Great care must be taken not to allow the mayonnaise to be- come too thick. This can be avoided by adding a few drops of vinegar or cold water. The method of mixing the yolks with the mustard, vinegar, salt, and pepper to begin with is the main point of the re- cipe, and the reason why success is cer- tain, as the mixture assimilates easily with the oil, and it is not even necessary to add it drop by drop, but it may be put in spoon- ful by spoonful without fear. The prin- cipal advantage of the method of operat- ing is that sufficient mayonnaise for six people can be prepared in five minutes, whereas the old way would take a quarter of an hour. The use of a whisk in place of a wooden spoon is of great im- portance. Green Mayonnaise. Take a large sprig of parsley, one of chervil, chives, and tarragon. Wash,6g blanch, drain, and refreshen. Squeeze out the moisture in a napkin, and put them into a mortar with the yolks of three hard eggs, salt, pepper, two anchovies, and a little mustard. Pound, adding oil and vinegar until the pur^e becomes smooth. Then pass it through a hair sieve by the aid of a palet knife. Mix this purde with mayonnaise. Mayonnaise aux Fines Herbes. Prepare a mayonnaise with two egg yolks, and when it is made and seasoned add a little tarragon, chervil, and parsley, all finely chopped. Mayonnaise a la Portuguese. All sauces called Portuguese are usually red, and coloured by means of tomatoes. Add to the mayonnaise a spoonful of to- mato pulp previously passed through a fine sieve. Mayonnaise a la Cardinale. This sauce takes it name from the scar- let colour communicated to mayonnaise by the addition of crayfish or lobster coral. Pass the coral through a hair sieve^ mix with the sauce, and season with a little cayenne. Caper Mayonnaise. Simply add a spoonful or two of capers (whole or chopped) to the mayonnaise. Tru-jfled Mayonnaise {in Half Mourning. This is a mayonnaise to which chopped truffles have been added, and is known as demi-deuil. Mayonnaise a la Gelee. Put into a basin some almost cold meat jelly. Mix this with the same F70 quantity of olive oil and three table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Add a teaspoon- ful of chopped fine herbs, salt, and pepper. Stir the sauce on ice with an egg whisk until it commences to thicken. Then take it off the ice and whisk it a few minutes longer. This mayonnaise is usually em- ployed with cold fish or fowl. It is lighter than mayonnaise made with egg, but is less appreciated. Sauce Tar tare. Pound the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs in a small basin, then add a teaspoonful of French mustard and as much English mus- tard. Season with salt, pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar. Mix with an egg whisk and allow the oil to run from the bottle in a thin thread, whisking constantly until the sauce thickens. It can be thinned with vinegar if necessary. Add finally capers, chopped gherkins, chervil, tarra- gon, and a sprinkling of cayenne. If these instructions are followed to the letter the sauce should not turn. Either hard-boiled or raw yolks of eggs may be employed. Cumberland Sauce. This is much in favour in England, and is used with cold game or galantine of boar’s head. Chop up two shallots and put them into a stewpan with the juice of an orange and a lemon cut into fine julienne. Boil in water for twenty minutes and drain. Then put the juice and shallots into a basin with six spoonfuls of currant jelly, three of port wine, a pinch of ground ginger, a little cayenne, and the juice of the lemon and orange. Sauce a la Diable. This is eaten with grilled meat. Chop three peeled shallots and half a clove of71 g-arlic, and boil in a small_ pan with two spoonfuls of vinegar and a sprinkling of cayenne for ten minutes. Add a little toma- to sauce and Worcester sauce, and allow to cool. Mix this with a rather thick mayonnaise. Vinaigrette. This is usually served with asparagus and globe artichokes. It is not prepared in ad- vance. As a rule each person makes it on his own plate. It is simply composed of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, to which a little mustard may be added ; chopped parsley, gherkins, etc., can also be mixed with it if liked. Retnoulade a VIndienne. Pound in a small mortar the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, adding oil and vine- gar drop by drop. Add two spoonfuls of curry paste, season, and pass through a sieve. This is used with poultry or game salads. It should have a very pronounced yellow colour. Cold Vep-per Sauce. Pepper sauce properly so-called is served hot with certain entrees, and usually with braised fillet of beef, but the cold pepper sauce eaten with artichokes and asparagus is simply made with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, to which a little mustard may be added. Retnoulade. R^moulade is often confounded with ravigote, although the sauces are entirely different. Remoulade differs from other cold sauces insomuch as mustard is its characteristic basis, and it is flavoured with pounded anchovies. Chop up72 finely three shallots and fry them in oil, stirring them until they take a light colour. Then drain and let them cool. Chop up some parsley, chervil, and pimpernel. Put these herbs in the corner of a napkin, and steep them in boil- ing water. Press out the moisture by wringing the linen, and put the herbs into a bowl with the chopped shallot, two tea- spoonfuls of tarragon mustard, salt, and pepper. Add oil drop by drop, stirring with a wooden spoon or with an egg whisk, and finally put in a sufficient quantity of vine- gar. Add the oil to the mustard very care- fully, otherwise the sauce will decompose. Ravigote Sauce. The name of ravigote was formerly given to a mixture of herbs chopped finely composed of parsley, chervil, tarragon, chives, pimpernel, and capers. This is the origin of ravigote sauce, which is a simple vinaigrette seasoned with these herbs and with the addition of chopped or pounded yolk of hard-boiled egg. This sauce, in the old days, was known as grebiche. English Sauces. These are made with very strong aro- matic seeds and leaves macerated in salt and vinegar or in their own juice, and mixed in various fashions. Real gour- mands make little use of them, as these very energetic condiments completely dis- guise the true flavour of the meat served. Ketchup. This sauce, resembling soy in colour, is prepared by allowing a quantity of chop- ped mushrooms to steep or marinade in salt in an earthenware pan. Each layer of mushrooms is sprinkled with salt, and the73 whole is allowed to remain for five or six days. Then all the juice is pressed out and boiled up with a little cayenne pepper, thyme, and bay-leaf. It is bottled when cold. Marinade. Cut a large carrot and three large onions in slices, and fry these vegetables Tn oil with a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, a sprig of parsley, two'chopped shal- lots. and a little pepper. When they are fried without changing colour moisten with a mixture of vinegar and water, season with a little salt. Allow to simmer for twenty minutes. Condiments. The part assigned to condiments is to stimulate the appetite, to accentuate the development of flavours, to give a relish to food, and to increase the flow of saliva with which digestion commences. The prin- cipal condiments are salt, pepper, spices, mustard, cayenne, pickles, and English sauces. The gourmand may choose among these according to his individual taste.74 Chapter VII. OIL, VINEGAR AND CONDIMENTS. Oil. The quality of the oil is of great import- ance in the seasoning of a salad, and too much attention cannot be paid in this re- spect. Olive oil is reputed to be the best and purest found in commerce. It is sold in several grades, but that which is known as huile vierge (virgin oil, i.e., that which runs out of the olive without any other pres- sure than that of the heaped-up fruit) is preferable to the other brands. It has little colour and a very agreeable flavour. Inferior oil is recognised by its yellow colour, its peculiar odour, and its rather acrid flavour. It thickens in cold weather and solidifies in a sharp frost. Pure oil, on the other hand, only slightly congeals in cold weather, preserving a limpid and colourless surface. Virgin oil is the first from the press before boiling water is thrown on the olives, and when this has been done they mostly produce a poor quality of oil. The high price of olive oil has caused it to be an object of considerable adulteration with oils of inferior quality. Unfortunately, there is no method of dis- covering these adulterations, and so far the chemists have not been able to work out a method of analysis. Oil which is not pure deteriorates gradually in the presence of air, turning rancid after long exposure. Even the best does not improve with keep- ing, and acquires a bad flavour with age.75 Vinegar. The base of vinegar is impure acetic acid, diluted with water, and containing fruit juice or other vegetable substances. In France), vinegar is made princip^ly from wine, and is white or red, according to the colour of the wine employed. It is also made from cider or beer. In England it is made on a large scale by fermenting brewers’ grains, that is to say, the malt from the brewings. The malt vinegar thus obtained is very highly esteemed. In the olden times vinegar was much es- teemed, and the Orientals used it as a beverage, highly diluted with water. Ma- homet said, “ A house without vinegar is a bad habitation.” The Roman soldiers drank nothing else, and history reports that their generals, who affected to live like the rank and file, used it themselves in time of war, and it is to this custom that the strength anl endurance of the Roman le- gions is attributed. Vinegar is aromatised easily with tar- ragon simply by allowing a handful of the herb to steep in a quart of white vinegar for eight or ten days. By infusing a few shallots in vinegar for some days a season- ing may be obtained which may replace the garlic crust in salads in which it is used. Orleans vinegar is considered the purest and best. When vinegar is not to be ob- tained lemon juice may be substituted for it. Salt. Of all condiments put by nature at the disposition of man salt is without contra- diction the most useful, most important, and most indispensable. It is moreover a fact that all the nations of the earth use it, and those who cannot obtain sea salt em- ploy a vegetable salt, which, as a matter of76 fact, is a salt of potash. The Inhabitants of the Congo, for instance, where sea salt is unknown, burn certain plants, wash the ashes, and crystallise the salt out of the liquor by evaporaf'on. The analysis of this salt shows that it is exclusively a salt of potash. The domestic animals eat salt eagerly, and the beasts of the field are fond of it. In certain countries it is mixed with fodder. Salt must not be merely con- sidered as a condiment, as it plays a great part in the digestion of food. Philip le Bel was the first to put a per- manent tax upon salt. A slight duty had been put on it before at intervals. Philip, however, made it a monopoly, and built storehoiuses in all the towns of France at which the citizens were obliged to buy the article at prices fixed by the King himself. Edward III., King of England, remarked pleasantly on this that the King of France had a peculiar way of interpreting the Salic Law. This iniquitous duty was one of the principal causes of the revolution of 1789. Salt, from an alimentary point of view, has two principal uses. It is employed as a seasoning for dishes and also as a pre- servative by reason of its antiseptic quali- ties. It has been used in this latter way for centuries. It is well known, for in- stance, that soup, meat, and vegetables keep good longer when salt is added to them than in their natural state. As an antiseptic, nevertheless, it is not sufficiently powerful to destroy completely the mi- crobes which are the principal cause of putrefaction, but it give excellent results in preserving organic tissues. Salt is found in nature in solution and as a solid. An inexhaustible source is sea water, from which it is obtained by evaporation. As a solid it occurs in the tertiary earth, and is found all over the earth. In France there77 are deposits in Haute-Saone, Jura, the Pyrenees, and Ariege. Two hypo- theses" have been put forward to ex- plain the presence of salt in the tertiary earths. It is asserted on the one hand that it is produced as a result of volcanic action by the evaporation of sea water. The second hypothesis insists that the salt was originally in waters which formed the geological strata in drying. Salt mixed with ice lowers its tempera- ture, and this phenomenon is taken advan- tage of in the preparation of ices and iced beverages in general. Mustard. There are two sO'rts of mustard, the white, which is an annual plant with the seed enclosed in a pod of yellowish colour, and the black, which has very small dark brown seeds. The two kinds are mixed, ground in a mortar and passed through a very fine sieve. French table mustard is usually flavoured with tarragon, celery seed, ancho- vies, fine herbs, garlic, cloves, etc. Ger- man mustard is mixed with a mirepoix made with onions, black pepper, horse-rad- ish, and spices. English mustard is mixed simply with water and vinegar.* Herb-Garnish. The aromatic herbs, which aid consider- ably in the seasoning of salad are of various natures, and each has its distinct and peculiar flavour. The best known are pars- ley, chervil, tarragon, chives, fennel, mar- joram, pimpernel, purslane, and cress. All these plants are said to have medicinal qualities. Parsley is a bi-annual plant. There are several varieties of it, but the * In most Enelish houses mustard is simply mixed with water, with the addition of a pinch of salt.—Tr.7» most esteemed is curley or dwarf parsley. It is easily cultivated. It is sown from February to August, and the seeds sprout in five or six weeks. Chervil is an annual plant with an agree- able taste. It is sown rather deep, and shows in a fortnight. It is one of the most usual condiments in salads. Tarragon is the most esteemed of the aromatic herbs. It communicates its perfume easily to the dish with which it is used. Infused in vinegar it gives it a delicate and appetising perfume. It is sown in March and gathered in June. Chives have a stimulating effect and something of the flavour of garlic without its strength. Fennel is a light green herbaceous plant with very narrow leaves. It is chopped very finely and used in certain hot and cold sauces. It is said to be a good stomachic. Pimpernel requires no care to grow. It is sown in spring. Purslane is a plant with glossy stalks of a rather agreeable flavour but a trifle insipid. Garlic. Garlic is a bulbous plant formed with a thin husk containing several bulbs known as cloves. This condiment is little appre- ciated by the people of the North, who con- sider it rather as a medicine than an ali- ment. In certain parts of the United States, when a clove of garlic is required, it can only be obtained at the drugeist’s. In the South of France and in Spain it is used as a flavouring with most culinary preparations. It is a very active stimulant, but, unfortunately, has the drawback of communicating a disagreeable odour to the breath, which cannot be concealed, and it is therefore out of favour in aristocratic households. In ancient Greece, those who79 had eaten garlic were forbidden to enter the temple. ^ ^ _ The people of the South have the firm conviction that garlic is a powerful pre- servative against fevers and contagious diseases, but I suspect that they have in- vented this pretext to excuse their im- moderate liking for this terrible condiment. A small crust of bread on which a clove of garlic has been -rubbed is sufficient to flavour the contents of a large salad bowl. The garlic genus compriises the plants known as garlic, leek, onion, chives, and shallots. Green Vepper. Green pepper is indigenous to the West Indiesi. The variety cultivated in our kitchen gardens is known as long pepper. It is an annual plant. The flower is white and the oblong and conical fruit varies in form and size, and is red or yellow when ripe. Green pepper has appetising pro- perties. It is used with pickles. A variety of green pepper is the capsicum, which is cultivated in Africa and in warm countries. It is used to prepare Chili vinegar, and when dried and ground is known as cay- enne pepper. Pepper. Pepper was known to the ancient Greeks and Romans, who used it very largely. It had a remarkable commercial importance at one time, and became the object of a huge trade between Europe and the East. Pepper is the seed of an Eastern plant, red when ripe, but turning black when dried. When it is ground in this state it is sold as black pepper, but if the outer husk is re- rnoved it becomes white pepper. At one time it was so rare and so precious a con- diment that it was used in certain cases a« coin, and was legal tender for government taxes and church dues.8o INDEX. PAGE American salad 19 Anchovy salad 58 Apple ^ad k la Moscovite 64 Artichoke bottoms (fonds d’artichauts) in salad 16 Artichoke bottoms in quarters 16 Artichokes k la Poivrade 16 Artichoke salad with truffles 30 Asparagus tips salad 15 Asparagus a I’huile 12 Asparagus salad a la russe 13 Asparagus salad with shrimps 13 Baked bean salad 23 Banana salad 61 Bean salad 22 Beef salad with potatoes 42 Beef vinaigrette 42 Beetroot salad 33 Black radish marin6 ..> 22 Brioches with oysters 54 Brussels sprouts salad 31 Cabbage salad k la Viennoise 29 Caper mayonnaise 69 Calf 8 head k I’huile 42 Calves’ feet k I’huile 41 Calves’ brains a la ravigote 40 Carrot salad a la hongroise 24 Cardoon salad a I’espagnole 7 Cauliflower salad k la marquise 33 Cauliflower salad 19 Celeri a la croque 17 Celeriac salad 17 Chaudfroid Fillets of sole h, la ravigote 47 Chestnut salad ... 35 CWcken salad rolls 39 Chicken crapaudine k la Tartare 40 Chicken mayonnaise 37 Chicken sal^ en supreme 38 Ch^santhemum salad 65 Oiicory salad a la Bretonne 4 Chicory salad ^ Cold pepper sauce 71 Condiments 73 Cold horse-radish sauce 43 Cold salmon k I’huile 568i PAGE Corn salad 3 Cos-lettuce salad 3 Cos-lettuce salad i la creme 3 Cos-lettuce salad with tomatoes 3 Crosnes salad with asparagus points 21 Crosnes salad 29 Cress 7 Crab a I’Anglaise 60 Crayfish d, la mirepoix 53 Cucumber salad 33 Cucumber salad in ribbons 34 Cumberland sauce 70 Currant and raspberry salad 63 Currant salad in orange baskets 62 Dandelion 5 Ducks with mayonnaise k la Bigarade 40 Egg salad Egg salad en supreme Egg salad in half mourning Egg salad k la Tartars Egg and olive salad Endive salad Enghsh mixed salad Enghsh sauces 20 15 20 21 20 6 8 72 Fillets of sole mayonnaise Flemish salad Francillon salad French bean salad 48 31 14 23 Game mayonnaise ... Herb Garnish Garbo Green pepper Green pea salad Green mayonnaise Green walnut salad 38 77 78 79 14 68 63 Ham sandwiches and salad Haricot bean salad 9 23 Italian salad ... 10 Japanese salad ... 31 Ketchup ... 72 Lettuce salad aux fines herbes Lettuce salad with plovers’ eggs Lettuce salad with hard eggs Leeks k la ravigote I.<entil salad 1 2 3 24 2382 Lobster salad a la LucuUus Lobster en coquiUes Lobster mayonnaise Lyonnaise salad Macedoine of fruit with maraschino Mackerel fillets with fennel sauce Macedoine salad ... Marinade ... Marinade of small melons Marrow and tomato salad Mandarin salad ... Mayonnaise Mayonnaise aux fines herbes Mayonnaiase k la Portuguese Mayonnaise ^ la cardinale Mayonnaise k la Gelee Mayonnaise of crayfish &, la Gelee Melon salad h I’Orientale Melon salad with strawberries ... Minced chicken and cucumber salad Mixed radish salad Mixed haricot salad Mustard Mussels ^ la Tartare Nasturtium salad New potato salad S, I’arlequin ... Oil Orange salad a la Chinoise Orange and apple salad ... Orange salad a la bourgeoise Ostrich eggs in salad Ox-cheek salad a la Hongroise ... Ox-cheek salad a la Bomaine Oysters with shallot sauce Oysters en coquilles la Tartare Parisian salad Periwinkles and whelks in vinegar Pepper Pickled cauliflower Pickled onions Pickled gherkins Pickled red cabbage Pickled herrings k la suedoise Picnic salad Pigeon mayonnaise Pineapple salad with strawberries Plain mayonnaise Potato salad Potato salad with herrings Potato salad k la Norvegienne ... ... 4983 PAGE Potato salad with celeriac 27 Potato sala4 d. la ravigote 28 Potato salad k l’6carlate ... 26 Potato salad en surprise ... 26 Polish salad 45 Prawns a la duchesse 54 Prawn tartlets A la diable 51 Prussian salad 18 Radish salad 21 Eampion 5 RaspWry vinegar 61 Ravigote sauce ... 72 Remoulade 71 Remoulade of ox-cheek ... 44 Remoulade k I’lndienne 71 Russian salad H Salade Francomtoise Salade a la Beaucaire Salad of moulded vegetables Salade d’Estree Salad of wild strawberries Salade cauchoise Salt Salsify salad (1) Salsify salad (2) Salmon mayonnaise Salted anchovies Sardines in oil a la menagere Sauer-kraut salad Sauce Tartare Sauce a la diahle Sauce vinaigrette Scallops k la mayonnaise Scorsonera salad Slices of melon in salad Slices of beef fillet with horse-radish ^used soles k la Dieppoise Soused mackerel Soused fresh herrings Sporteman’s lobster salad Spanish salad Stuffed olivee Stuffed eel k la Tartare Swedish saJad ... 8 ... 29 ... 12 ... 19 ... 59 .. 65 ... 75 ... 7 ... 30 ... 46 ... 56 ... 57 ... 18 ... 70 ... 70 ... 71 ... 53 ... 30 ... 64 ... 43 ... 57 ... 55 ... 55 ... 51 ... 16 ... 18 ... 47 ... 17 Tomato salad Trout with green sauce Ruffled mayonnaise (in half Truflaed salad k la P4rigord Tunny fish in oil Turbot mayonnaise mourning) 32 46 69 25 52 4884 Veal and tongue salad PAGE 43 Veal salad with bacon 41 Vegetable salad a la Princesee ... 15 Vegetable salad ^ la Montglas 11 Vegetable salad ^ la Pompadour 10 Vinegar 75 Watercress salad 7 Watercress salad ^ la Suedoise ... 8 Wild duck ^ la Cumberland 44 Zakouskis of eggs with shrimps 57 Crowp tl?c Feast. A Good Salad Dressing is delicious on every kind of Salad, be it made of Salad Plant, Cold Meat, Fish, Fowl, Eggs, or Vegetables. KREMETTE SALAD OIL is Suplime Preuence OH. Some Salad Oils are good, others ate better, but KREMETTE OIL is the best of all, and therefore crowns the feast. The price is 1/3 per Bottle (Post Free 1/6). Try a bottle and be convinced of its superior quality and purity. I^s as fragrant as a rose and quite as pure. ♦ ■ West End Agency : E. jrO]NC:S, 69, EBVRY LONDON, S.W.HOLBROOK’S WORCESTERSHIRE = SAUCE ^ IS UNDOUBTEDLY. . . The Premier Sauce of the World. HOLBROOK’S SAUCE. ‘‘The Sauce is of a pleasing piquant description, and it is evident good and sound ingredients are chosen in its preparation.”—Vide “ LancetDecember 27, 1902. HOLBROOK’S ARE PREPARED IN PURE . . . MALT VINEGAR. PICKLES.f% I '■ 9 .*■' ! f \ i' f i,- ^}. V \ Jll 1 ? t %: » • r-"' ■