APPENDIX. 1161 smoothly, evenly, and finely. It may be bought in two or three sizes, and will cost from 9(1. to Is. 6d. Caxisteus.—Canisters in winch to preserve tea, coffee, and various groceries are made of japanned tin. They should be emptied and washed out occasionally, and should then be dried perfectly before being used again. They may be bought of various sizes. Price, from 9d. Cask Stand.—Cask stands are made to hold a cask of wine or ale quite steadily. They are so constructed that the cask can be raised when necessary so gently that the contents need not be shaken, and the liquor can be drawn off clear and bright to the last. Price 8s. 6d., 10s. 6d., and lis. 6d. Chopping Board and Knife.—When meat is to be minced for croquettes, kromeskies, rissoles, &c., or when suet or other ingredients are to be chopped veiy small, the task will be most easily accomplished upon a chopping board, with a knife adapted for the purpose. These boards have to a great extent been superseded by the sausage machines, which do their work quickly and thoroughly. A choppLag board can be procured from Is. to 2s., and a knife from Is. 4d. A sausage machine costs from 10s. 6d. to 21s. Clocks.—A clock is indispensable in a kitchen where regularity and punctuality are to be observed. Clocks may be had at all sorts of prices. Excellent American clocks can be obtained at a very ti-ifling cost. Cook's Knife.—It will facilitate the cook's operations if she is provided with two or tlu-ee sharp-pointed knives of different sizes. This kind of knife is much to be preferred to the short round-bladed knife. Probable cost, from 2s. Digester.—A digester is a most valuable utensil which cannot be too highly recommended to those who wish to preserve all the goodness that can be extracted from meat, bones, or vegetables. It is a kind of iron stock-pot, made with a lid which fits so closely into a groove at the top that no steam can escape that way, but only through a valve at the top. Care must be taken, therefore, in filling the digester to allow plenty of room for this escape—^indeed the pot should never be more than three-parts filled with water, bniised bones, and meat. The contents of the pan should be kept simmeiing very gently as long as may be necessary. A fierce heat would injure the quality of the preparation. Digesters are made in all sizes, holding from three quarts to ten gallons. The saucepan and stewpan digesters for making gravies hold from one to eight quarts. Probable cost, digester holding one gallon, 4s. 9d. ; holding four gallons, 9s. 8d. Dredgers.—Dredgers for sugar and flour may be bought for about Is. Their use prevents waste, and also makes it easy for the cook to distribute the ingredients lightly and equally over the preparation. Dripping Pan and Basting Ladle.—The diipping pan is placed under the joint to catch the fat and gravy which drops from it. This pan is constructed with a well in the centre, which is covered with, a lid and sun'ounded with holes, so that the dripping can run into the Avell free from ashes. This M can be lifted up when the meat is to be basted. The basting ladle is half covered with a piece of perforated metal, so that if any cinders shoxild get into the dripping, they may be kept from falling upon the meat. Dripping pans may be purchased, made of copper, and standing on legs, and the price of one of these with the well and ladle would be from £4 10s. to <£11 10s., according to size. They are usually made of wrought-iron or of tin, and stands for them may be bought separately. The price of a good wrought-iron dripping pan on iron legs, with a well, would be from £1 18s. to £2 6s The price of a good tin dripping pan would be about 8s. 6d., that of an iron stand about 4s. 6d., and a basting ladle from 2s. to 5s. 6d. Earthen Jars.—A most excellent mode of cooking is that which is accomplished by means of an ordinary earthen jar with a closely-fitting lid. Meat, fruit, and varioTis faiinaceoiis articles may be baked most satisfactorily in this way. The pi*o- cess is so gentle and gradual that the ingredients can scarcely be spoilt, and besides this, if the jar is closely covered the nourishment contained in the food cannot escape. The meat, frmt, rice, or whatever is to be cooked, should be placed in the jar with