SOL SOL ( 892 ) Then put in an onion cut in quarters. When those quarters are brown, add a bunch of herbs and, gradually, a cupful of broth or water, half a wino-glaasf ul of viuegar, aud a Little ketchup. Let tho sauce stew very gently till the onion is melted; then season with pepper and salt. Let it simmer a quarter of an hour longer. Put in tho lish with a pickled gherkin or two cut into small bits, or in preference a few capers. Lot the whole simmer together for ten minutes, and if the sauce is not thick enough, add a little butter roUed in flour. Sole Croquettes.—Take the remains of cold di-essed sole, lift the flesh from the bones, and tear it into flakes with two forks; then put it into a saucepan with a small proportion of white sauce, the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. A quarter of a tea-spoonful of chopped onion may be added if liked, or the saucepan can be rubbed with a freshly-cut onion. Stir the mixture over tho fire for a few minutes tiU the eggs are set, spread it on a dish, and leave it in a cool place till it is firm and cold. Divide the croquette- meat into equal-sized parts, and roll these to the shape of corks or balls. Dip them in an egg which has been beaten up with a tea-spoonful of oil and a little salt and pepper, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are crisp and lightly coloured. Drain them from the fat, sprinkle a little salt upon them, and serve on a dish covered with a napkin. Gar- nish with fried parsley. Time to fry the cro- quettes, about ten minutes. Probable cost of croquettes made with a pound of sole, 8d., exclusive of the cold fish. Suflicient for four or five persons. Sole, Croquettes of.—The remains of any kind of firm fish which have been left from a previous day's dinner may with advantage be made into croquettes, although sturgeon and soles are better suited for this purpose than any other fish. It must be remembered, however, that the of tener a fish is presented to the fire the more impalatable it becomes. With regard to the croquette of soles, reduce the sauce, cut the soles into small dice, and throw them into it, season them well, and put the whole prepara- tion into ice. When cold cut them into equal parts on a dish. Roll them either round or oval, but never into pears. Dip them into an omelet of two eggs, put a little salt, and then dip them into crumbs of bread, fry them a good colour, and serve them up with crisp fried green parsley in the centre. Sole, Curried.—Fillet two soles, and cut each fillet slantwise into four or five pieces. If more convenient, instead of filleting the soles, skin and clean them, cut off the fins and gills, and cut each fish into three or four pieces, leaving the bones in. Rub the fish with curry- powder, and dredge a little flour upon it, then fry it in hot fat for two or three minutes, but do not cook it sufiiciently. Have ready as much warm curry sauce as will barely cover the fish. Lay the fried slices of sole carefully in this, and let them boil gently tiU they are done enough, but not overdone. Serve the curry on a hot dish, and send rice boiled for curry to table separately. The curry sauce may be made as foUows:—Mince two onions and one sour apple, and fry them in hot fat, moving them about briskly till they are soft. Rub them through a sieve, and mix with the pulp a tea- spoonful of curry paste, a tea-spoonf id of cuny powder, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice. Add gradually about three-quarters of a pint of stock, and boil tho sauce till it is thick and smooth. Time to simmer tho sole in the sauce, about ten minutes. Probable cost, with a pair of soles at Is. 6d., 2s. 3d. Suflicient for five or six persons. Sole, Cutlets of.—When soles are so large that they cannot conveniently be fried whole, they may be divided into cutlets. To do this, skin and clean the sole, and cut it crosswise through the bone into pieces about an inch wide. Fry these in the usual way. When done enough, dish them in a circle on a hot dish, with one piece resting upon another, and put fried parsley in the centre. Time to fry, according to the thickness of t)ie fish Probable cost, soles. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Sufiicient, one moderate-sized pair for three or four persons. Sole, Filleted. — If desired, the fish- monger wiU fillet the sole. If this has to be done at home, proceed as foUows:—Take a large sole, and cut off closely the head, tail, and fins. Remove both the skins by cutting them at the tail, and drawing them over the head. Lay the fish flat on the table, and with a sharp knife make a deep incision close to the back- bone the whole length of the fish. Insert the knife to the head between the fin-bones and the fillet, just by the head, pass it imder the flesh from head to tail, and thus raise it, and remove it in one piece. In this way take ofl: the four fillets, cut each one across, and trim the ends neatly. Season them with pepper and salt, floui- the fillets, and dip them in egg and bread-rasp- ings ; let them lie an hour, then fry them in hot fat till they are hghtly browned. Drain them well, and dish them in a circle, with one fillet resting upon another. Send parsley, shrimp, tomato, Italian, ravigote, or Dutch sauce to table with them. If liked, the fillets may be rolled and tied with thin twine before being egged and breaded. Time, about three minutes to fry the fillets. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. 6d. Sufiicient for four persons. Sole, Filleted (a la Tartare).—Fillet a large fresh sole in the usual way. Cut the pieces across, flour them, and dip them in egg and bread-crumbs. Let them lie in a cool place for an hour, and fry thenl in hot fat till they are of a bright-bro^vn colour. Drain them on a sieve before the fire for two or throe minutes to free them perfectly from fat, and dish them in a circle on a cold dish, with one piece overlapping the other. About an horn- before the fish is to be served, prepare the sauce, and set it in a cool place till wanted. Servo in the centre of the circle. Tho .sauce may be made as follows:—Put tho yolk of an egg. freed from the speck, into a bowl. Add a pinch of salt and a pmch of pepper, and stir in by drops about four oimces of good lucca oil. Beat the