pia- PIG ( 560 ) oil or buttor. Sorvo as hot as possible, and send mushroom sauce, brown gi-avy, parsley sauce, tomato sauce, or piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Time to broil the pigeon, fifteen minutes each side. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sutliciont for one person. Pigeons, Broiled (another way).—Mix an ounce of butter with a dessert-spoonful of di-icd flour. Add a finely-minced shallot, a salt- spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Stii- the mixture over the fire for five minutes. Truss two pigeons as if for boiling, flatten them without breaking the skin, put a piece of butter and a little pepper and salt inside them, and tie them at both ends. Dip them into the mixture while it is warm, and continue to do so until they are covered with it. Leave them in a cool place for an hoiu" or more, then broil them over a slow fire. Send tomato, mushroom, or piquant sauce to table with them. If preferred, pigeons may be split open and half cooked in butter before they are egged, breaded, and broiled. Time to broil, fifteen minutes each side. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Broiled (another way).—To be worth the trouble of picking, pigeons must be well grown, and well fed. Clean them well, and pepper and salt them; broil them over a clear slow fire; turn them often, and put a little butter on them. When they are done, pour over them either stewed or pickled mush- rooms, or ketchup and melted butter. Garnish with fried bread-crumbs or sippets, or, when the pigeons are trussed as for boiling, flat them with a cleaver, taking care not to break the skin of the backs or breasts; season with pepper and salt, a little bit of butter, and a tea- spoonful of water, and tie them close at both ends; so when they are brought to table they bring their sauce with them. Egg and dredge them well with grated bread (mixed Avith spice and sweet herbs, if you please), then laj' them on the gridiron, and turn them frequently. If your fire is not very clear, lay them on a sheet of paper well buttered, to keep them from getting smoked. They are much better broiled whole. Pigeons, Compote of.— Truss half a dozen plump young pigeons as if for boiling. Lard them down the breasts, or, if preferred, cover their breasts with thin slices of fat bacon. Fry them in hot butter tiU they are equally and lightly browned all over; then drain them, and put them side by side into a stewpan large enough to contain them. Barely cover them with good gravy, and add half a dozen small onions, a dozen button-mushrooms, a glassful of claret, and a little salt and cayenne. Let the birds stew gently for half an hour; then add a large table-spoonful of tomato sauce, and stew a few minutes longer. Place the birds on a hot dish, with the sauce, &c., round them. If liked, the birds may be stuffed with veal force- meat, and a dozen forcemeat balls may be sent to table with them. Time, altogether, about two hours. Probable cost, 6s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pigeons, Curry of.—Cut one or two pigeons into quarter.s, and fry them in butter until they are nicely browned. Take them up, drain tliem, and put them aside until wanted. Peel and slice three large onions, and fry them in the same butter. Put witli them half a dozen chopped mushrooms and luilf a pint of strong veal stock. Stir them together, add a large tea-spoonful of curry paste and a salt-spoonful of curry powder, and boil all together until the onions, &c., are quite soft, then rub the whole through a fine hair sieve. Add a dessert-spoon- ful of brown thickening, and boil tlie sauce until it is of the consistency of custard. Draw it to the side of the fire, let it cool a minute, then put in the pieces of pigeon, and let them heat in the hot sauce, without boiling. Pour the whole upon a hot dish, and serve with a border of rice round the curry. A cupful of thick cream will be considered a great improve- ment to this dish by many persons. A sour apple also may be minced and fried with the onions. When brown thickerung is not at hand, a dessert-spoonful of ground rice may be mixed smoothly with a little of the sauce, and stirred into the rest. Brown thickening is, however, so useful that' it ought to be at hand in every kitchen. {8ee Gravy, Brown Eoux for). Time, half an hour to heat the pigeons in the sauce. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the cream. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Pigeons, Cutlets of.—Divide two or three pigeons in halves lengthwise, by cutting them down through the breast and back; remove the wing bones, and turn the leg bones inside, so as to shape them something like a chop. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and fry in hot fat until they are done enough. Put them between two dishes, place a weight upon the top, and leave them until they are cold. Mince two small shallots, and fry them in the fat until they are lightly browned. Pour over them half a pint of stock or (failing this) water, and season the gravy with pepper and salt. Boil gently, and slcim carefully, for half an hour or more, then strain the liquid. Heat it when it is wanted, and send to table in a tureen. A glassful of sherry or claret may be added to this gravy, or if liked, a table-spoonful of red currant jelly may be dissolved in it. A\Tien the cutlets are wanted, dip them in clarified butter, then into bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear slow fire until they are brightly browned. Dish them in a circle, with French beans, peas, asparagus, or stewed mushrooms in tlie centre. A cut lemon, or, if preferred, a little red currant jelly is an excellent accompaniment to pigeon cutlets. Time to broil the cutlets, five minutes for each side. Probable cost of pigeons, 8d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Pigeons (en lilatclote).—Put some butter and flour into a stewpan, and simmer until they turn brown. Cook in the butter the pigeons cut in pieces, with a few tliin sUces of bacon. Pour over them some stock broth and white wine, and add some chives, parsley, thjune, mush- rooms, and onions fried in buttor, as well as salt, pepper, and spice. Bod down over a good fire.