( 992 ) TRI TRI tho saucepan to the sido, and lut its contents simmor gently for throo liours. Mix u tea- spoonful of corn-Hour to a sniootli paste with about a table-spoonful of cold water. Stir tliis into the sauce, and b(jil it gently for a few minutes. Tut the meat on a hut disli, pour tiie sauce over it, and serve. Time to simmer the tripe, throo hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sutlicient for one poi'son. Tripe, French way of Dressing.— Take one pound and a iialt of fresh wliite tripe. ■Out it into convenient-sized jneces, put it into a stewpan with as much strong veal broth as will cover it, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Put two table-spoonfuls of chopped niushrooma into a stewpan with a table-spoon- i'ul of chopped parsley, one sliallot hnely minced, half a bay-leaf, and a little popper and salt. Pour over these a quarter of a pint of good white sauce, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire until tho vegetables are tender. Add as much veal broth as will make the sauce of the consistency of melted butter, and boil it gently until it is verj' smooth. Serve the tripe in a deep dish with the sauce poured over it. - Time to stew the tripe, four hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Tripe, Fricasseed.—Take about two pounds 01 fresh tripe as sold by the vendors; cu.t it into pieces three inches long and two broad, wash it in cold water, and dry it in a cloth. Put it into a stewpan, cover with equal parts of milk and water, add two onions and a bunch of parsley, and simmer gently for an hour. Rub an ounce of butter smoothly with a little flour, moisten with a quarter of a pint of cream, and stir it into the sauce. Add the thin rind of half a lemon, a little pepper and salt, and the eighth part of a grated nutmeg; then simmer for another hour. Put the tripe into a hot dish, take the sauce from the fire, stir a lump of fresh butter into it until it is dissolved, and pour it over the tripe. In stewing the tripe be careful that it does not "burn to the bottom of the pan. A dish of boiled rice is a suitable accompaniment to tripe pre- pared in this way. Time to stew, two hours. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tripe, Fried.—The remains of cold boiled tripe are required for this dish. If fresh tripe is used, it should be first boiled till tender in water mixed with a fourth part of vinegar, and then allowed to cool. Make a little frying- batter as follows:—Mix three-quarters of a pound of flour with a tea-spoonful of salt, and beat it till smooth with two ounces of olive oil or oiled butter, a little more than half a pint of lukewarm water and three eggs. The water should be added gradually, and the batter should be well beaten, and afterwards set aside for an hour or two before being used. Dry the tripe, and cut it into neat squares. Dip the pieces separately into the batter, and fry them in plenty of hot fat till they are lightly browned. The batter should be thick enough to coat the tripe. Serve the tripe on a hot dish, and sprinkle over it fried onions which have been sliced and divided into rings. Or serve it cn a luipkin, garnish with fried parsley, and send tomato or picpmnt sauce to table in a turo(!n, or a sauce prepared uH follows:—Mince a dozen shallots finely, and put tlienr into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a small walnut, tlio strained juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of scraped horseradish, a tea-spoonful of fresh mustard, and a little suit and cayenne. Stir these ingredients over a brisk Ore for three or four minutes, then jiour over them nearly half a pint of new milk, and boil the sauce for five minutes. Beat the yolk of a fresh egg for a minute or two, and mix with it two table- spoonfuls of thick cream. Lift the sjiuce from the fire for a minute, and stir in the mixture, then put it on the fire once more, and stir it again until it is on the point of boiling. Pour it into a tureen, and it will be read)' for serving. Time, two hours to boil the tripe; fifteen to I twenty minutes to fry it. Probable cost, tiipe, 8d. per pound. Tripe (German mode of preparing).—Take a sufficient quantity of tripe, blanch and boil it till tender; then cut two or three onions small, and steam them till they are soft in a good piece of butter. Mix a thickening of milk and flour or milk and bread-rnmibs to make a thick sauce. Add a sprig of marjoram, a little nutmeg, some white pepper, salt, and some chopped parsley. Stir the preparation till it boils thick and smooth. Cut the tripe into long narrow strips, and simmer it a short time in the sauce. Tripe, Grilled.—Clean the tripe, simmer it very geutly in nicely-flavoured stock, and boil with it an onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. When it is quite tender take it up, drain it, and cut it into pieces two inches square. Take equal quantities of minced parsley and chives, add a little pepper and salt, and make the mixtiure into a paste with a little oiled butter or diipping and lemon-juice. Dip the pieces of tripe into this batter, cover them with bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire. Send piquant sauce to table with them. Time to broil, tiU lightly browned. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound of tripe for two or three persons. Tripe, Irish {see Irish Tripe). Tripe, Normandy Way of Dressing. —Clean, scald, and scrape one pound and a half of tripe repeatedly, cut it into neat squares, and put it into a stewpan with a large carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, three ounces of bacon cut into dice, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and six or eight pepper- corns. Add one or two ounces of fat, and coyer the whole with cider, white ^^nne, or, failmg these, cold spring water. Let the tripe sinnncr very gently till it is quite tender. Place it on a dish, and pour the strained sauce over it. Time, about two hours. Tripe Pie.—Tripe which is to be used for a pie should be stewed, and allowed to jelly in the liquor in which it was boiled. Line the inside of a pic-dish with good pastry. Put a slice of tender steak or a little undressed ham