( 879 ) SIR / pour upon it as much cream or good milk as it will absorb. Let it soak for an hour, then Uike it up cfu-efuUy, and fry it in hot fat till it is lightly bro\\Tied. Drain, and servo hot. Or cut the crumb of a stale loaf into slices as thin as a sixpence; stamp these into fancy shapes, and fry in hot fat till ci-isp. Sippets thus made are useful for making borders to dishes, and may be fixed in position with a paste made with white of egg and flour. j Sirloin of Beef.—Choose, in the first , place, a well-covered sirloin, not weighing more than twenty or twenty-four pounds—a , large piece is never well roasted; the time | which it requires causes the outside to be too i much done, while the middle remains quite raw. The meat must be covered for one hour only with paper, to prevent its taking too much colour. It is necessary to observe that for large pieces the fire must not be too sharp, or the meat will be burned before it is warm through. Just before you take it ofi: the spit spread some fine salt over it, and send it up very hot with gravy only. This joint is often spoiled for the next day's use by an injudicious mode of carving. If you object to the outside cut, take the brown off, and help yourself to the next; by thus cutting it only on one side, you preserve the gravy in the meat, and the goodly appearance likewise; by cutting it, on the contrary, down the middle of the joint, all the gravy runs out, and it remains diy and void of substance, besides exhibiting a most unseemly aspect when brought to table a second time. Sirloin of Beef, Roasted.—The prin- cipal observation and. direction required with regard to this article is, that it is of all the parts the most delicate ; and when the piece is very big the fire must be more moderate, as it is a long time before the middle becomes warm. If tlie fire is sharp, the meat wiU be burnt on the outside and quite raw in the middle. Another necessary obsei'vation is, that when you put the spit too low, the meat loses a great deal of the heat, receiving it only from the top : to keep down the colour, it is better to cover it with a few sheets of white paper, and uncover it only when the meat is nearly done. Take care, however, not to cover the meat too closely —merely paper the part that faces the fire— otherwise the beef will not be roasted, but broiled. Sirloin of Beef, To Carve (see Beef, Sirloin of, To Carve). Skate.—The skate is a fish of the ray tribe, excellent and wholesome. It may generally be had at a comparatively low price, and perhaps on this account is not so highly esteemed as it ought to be. It is more highly valued in France than in England. The young skate are called "maids," and their flesh is tender and delicate. Skate improves with being kept a day or two, and should always be skinned however it is dressed. The fin or wing is the part generally used. Thp liver is much prized. In cool weather the skate is improved by being kept a couple of days, and is still fiu-ther improved by crimj^ing, though it should be remembered that it \/ill not keep so well when this is done. Skate is unwholesome out of season. It is in season in autumn and winter. Skate (a la Sainte Menehould). —Cut the skate into neat pieces, and simmer it in white sauce till done enough. Lay the fish on a dish, sprinkle seasoned bread-crumbs *over it and a little grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese. Put it in a brisk oven, or before the fire, till the surface is brightly browned, and serve hot. Skate (au beurre noir—an excellent dish). —Take about two pounds of white skate, wash SKATE. it, and boil it in water with salt and a little vinegar ; five minutes before it is done enough, put the liver in with it, and boil it also. Take up the fish, skin it on both sides, lay it on a hot dish, and keep it hot for a few minutes. Dis- solve six ounces of fresli butter in a saucepan, and stir it over a brisk fire till it is brown without being burnt. Throw about fifty leaves of picked parsley into it, and when these are crisp pour the butter over the fish. Put a large wine-glassful of common vinegar into the saucepan with a httle pepper and salt. Let it boil for half a minute, pour it all over the fish, and serve very hot. Time altogether, about half an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Skate, Black Butter for Boiled.— Place about six ounces of good fresh butter in a small stewpan; put it on the fire to melt, and then allow it to fritter so as to acquire a light- brown coloirr; then take it off the stove, skim it, and pass it quickly through a sieve into a stew- pan containing four table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers, ditto Harvey's Sauce and mushroom ketchup, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the sauce. Boil the whole well together, and use it for boiled skate or boiled mackerel. "With whatever kind of fish this sauce is served, fried parsley foiTns an indispensable adjunct. Skate, Boiled. —Let the skate hang a couple of days, then skin it, ajid cut it into pieces about four inches square—some cut out of the thick part, and some out of the thin. Tic the pieces with string to preserve the shape, and put first the thick pieces, and a couple of minutes afterwards the thin pieces, into a kettle ynth boiling water which has been prepared for the fish by the addition of a handful of salt, two