( 744 ) EIC Bioe Croquettes (another way).—Take half a pound oi rice, aua boil it in a ([uart of milk till tender, add four ounces of butter, six yolks of eggs, and throe spoonfuls of sugar; lot those ingredients boil a few minutes, and then leave the uiixturo to get cold. If liked, a spoonful of oralnge-flowor water or grated lemon-peel may bo added. When quite cold, cut the preparation into the shape and size of sausages ; roll these in beaten egg, strew them with bread-crumbs, and bake of a tine brown colour. Rice Croquettes, Fowl, &c. {see Fowl with Rice Croquettes). Rice Croquettes, Plain.— Wash a pound of rice in seTeral waters. Dry it in a cloth, and put it in a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a quart of cold water, and a little salt. Let it simmer gently imtil it is soft, thick, and dry, then spread it on a dish to cool. Form it into balls or corks, dip these into the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and afterwards into bread finely grated, and passed through a coarse sieve. Lay the croquettes in the frying basket, and plunge them into hot fat. Turn them over that they may be equally coloured, and fry them till they are a bright golden brown. Drain them before the fire on a napkin or on blotting-paper, and serve them very hot piled liigh on a dish. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for ten or eleven persons. Rice Croquettes, Savoury.—BoU half a pound of rice till it is thick, soft, and dry, drain it, and, if liked, mix with it when it is taken from the fire a spoonful of grated Parmesan, a pinch of powdered mace, and a little white pepper. Let it get quite cold, then form it into balls, inserting in the centre of each ball a spoonful of any savoury mince, such as turkey, fowl, rabbit, or oysters, stewed for a few minutes in thick white sauce. Cover the mince entirely with the rice, dip the croquettes in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them as before. The rice may be boiled in milk, water, or stock, and seasoned in accordance with the mince which is to be served \yiih. it. If boiled in water a few spoonfuls of rich white sauce stirred into it when it is almost dry enough ^viU greatly improve it. Time to fry, five to seven minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Croquettes, Sweet.-Wash half a pound of Carolina rice, and throw it into boiling water for five minutes. Drain and dry it, and let it cool. Put it into a good-sized saucepan with the thin rind of half a fresh lemon, half a pound of loaf sugar, a small slice of butter, and three pints of milk. Let it simmer gently until the rice is soft, thick, and dry, then spread it on a dish to cool. Beat the yolks of two eggs briskly. Form the rice into the shape of corks about an inch and a half long, or into balls, then dip them first into beaten egg, and afterwards into finely-grated bread-crumbs. Lay them in the frying basket, l)lunge them into very hot fat, and fry them \ ery quickly until they are brightly browned. Drain them, sprinkle white sugar over them, and servo very hot, piling them on a dish in the form of a pyramid. Tlie flavour of th<; croquettes muv be varied by the addition of five or six pounded bitter almonds, or by the hubstitution of a pod of vanilla, broken in lialves, or a little cocoa-nut, pounded, for the lemon-rind. Both lemon-iind and vanilla should bo taken out of the rice when it in left to cool. The croquettes may be enriched abio by the mtroductiou of a spoonful of jam marmalade into the centre of each ball. The jam must bo entirely covered with the rice. It should be remembered that unless the rice is boiled till it is quite thick and dry it will be difficult to form it into croquettes. Time to fry, five to seven minutes. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice, Cultivation of.—The following is the mode of rice culture in Carolina:—It h sowed as soon as it conveniently can be after the vernal equinox, from which period until the middle and even the last of May is the usual time of putting it into the ground. It grows best in low marshy land, and should be sown in furrows twelve inches asunder; it requires to be flooded, and thrives best if six inches under water; the water is occasionally drained off, and turned on again to overflow it, for three or four times. When ripe the straw becomes yellow, and it is either reaped with a sickle, or cut down with a scythe and cradle, some time in the month of September, after which it is raked and bound, got up loose, and threshed or trodden out, and winnowed in the same manner as wheat or barley. Husking it requires a different and particular operation, in a mill made for that purpose. This mill is constructed of two large flat wooden cylinders, formed like miU-stones, with channels or furrows cut therein, diverging in an oblique direction from the centre to the cir- cumference, made of a heavy and exceedingly hard timber, called lightwood, which is the knots of the pitch-pine. This is turned with the hand, like the common hand-mills. After the rice is thus cleared of the husks it is again winnowed, when it is fit for expoilation. " In Europe the cultivation of rice is confined to the most southern regions. It is most extensively carried on in the plains of Lom- bardy, and in Valentia, in Spain. Attempts have been made to cultivate it in more northern parts of Europe, but without success. Marshy situations, where there is always the same abundance of water, ai-e not so suitable to rice, as those in which the supply of water is regulated according to the season and the growth of the plant. "In China rice is generally sown pretty thickly on very wet land, and afterwards transplanted to the land which it is finally to occupy. The plants tiller or spread at the root very much, so that each sends up several or many stalks. The rice grounds arc carefully kept Clear of weeds, although often so wet that a man cannot walk in them without sinking to the knees. In many parts of China, and in other warm countries it is common to obtain two crops of rice in a year."