( 907 ) SO"W sou and savoury luncheon or supper, and costs nothing hut the trouble of preparing it, which is very little, tind a relish is procured for sand- wiches, &c., of what has heretofore been by the poorest housekeeper considered the perquisite of the cat. Keep some spare broth, lest yoMx soup-liquor waste in boiling and get too thick, and for gravy for your made dishes, various sauces, &c., for many of which it is a much better basis than melted butter. The soup of mock-turtle and the other thickened soups will supply you with a thick gravy sauce for poultry, fish, ragouts, &c., and by a little management of this sort you may generally contrive to have plenty of good gravies and good sauces with very little trouble or expense. If soup is too thin or too weak, take oflE the cover of your soup-pot and let it boil till some of the watery part of it has evaporated, or else add some of the thickening materials we have before mentioned; and have at hand some plain browning. This simple preparation is much better than the compounds bearing that name, as it colours sauce or soup without much inter- fering vntb. its flavour, and is a much better way of colouring them than burning the surface of the meat. When soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot weather they should be warmed up every day, and put into fresh-scalded tureens or pans, and placed in a cool cellar; in tem- perate weather every other day may be enough. We hope we have now put the conunon cook into possession of the whole arcana of soup- making, without much trouble to herself, or expense to her employers; it need not be said in future that an Englishman only knows how to make soup in his stomach, by swilling down a large quantity of ale or porter, to quench the thirst occasioned by the meat he eats. John BuU may now make his soup secundum artem, and save his principal viscera a great deal of trouble. I conclude these remarks with observing that some persons imagine that soup tends to relax the stomach. So far from being prejudicial, we consider the moderate use of such liquid nourish- ment to be highly salutary. Does not our food and drink, even though cold, become in a few minutes a kind of warm soup in the stomach ? and therefore soup, if not eaten too hot, or in too great a quantity, and of proper quality, is attended with great advantages, especially to those who drink but little. Warm fluids, in the form of soup, unite with our juices much sooner and better than those that are cold and raw; on this account restora- tive soup is the best food for those who are en- feebled by disease or dissipation; and for old people, whose teeth and digestive organs are unpaired— " Half subtilised to chyle—the liquid food Readiest obeys th' a-ssimilating powers." After catching cold, in nervous headaches, colics, indigestion, and different kinds of cramps and spasms in the stomach, warm broth IS of excellent servicie. After intemperate feasting, to give the atomach a holiday for a day or two by a diet on mutton broth or vege- table soup, &c., is the best way to restore its tone. The stretching any power to its utmost extent weakens it. If the stomach be every day obliged to do as much as it f:an, it will every day be able to do less. A wise traveUei will never force his horse to perform as much as he can in one day upon a long journey. Soups, Forcemeat for {see Forcemeat for Fish, Soujds, or Stews). Soups, Greening for {see Greening for j Soups). Soups, Herb-powder for Flavour- ing.—As it is not always possible to obtain fresh herbs, the cook wiU find it a convenience to have the following herbs powdered, stored, and ready to use in fiavouring. For this pur- pose the recipe for the Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices will also be found useful; but those who object to the fiavour of spices, and prefer that of herbs only, will find that the following recipe will suit them best:—The herbs should be procured fresh, dried in a warm but not too hot oven, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a wire sieve. The powder should then be put into smaU bottles, stoppered closely, and kept in a dry place. It will retain its flavour for several months. The proportions are as follows:—Two ounces of sweet marjoram, two I ounces of winter savory, two ounces of dried I parsley, two ounces of lemon-thyme, a quarter of an ounce of bay-leaves, a quarter of an ounce of celery-seed, an ounce of sweet basU, and an oimce of lemon-peel. Soups, Onions Burnt for {see Onions Bm-nt lor Soups and Gravies). Sour Sauce for Fish.—Heat a quarter of a pint of good vinegar, stir into it half a tea- spoonftil of made mustard, a little pepper, and a slice of fresh butter. Serve when the butter is dissolved. Souse Pudding.—Take two eggs, with their weight in flour and sugar. Wlbisk the eggs with the sugar, and when the puddings are about to be put into the oven, add the flour. Beat the mixture till it is light, frothy, and perfectly smooth, put it into small buttered cups, and bake these in a moderate oven. When done enough, turn the puddings out carefully, sift sugar over them, and serve. A little fla- vouring will be an agreeable addition. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sowens.—Sowens is one of the national dishes of Scotland, made from the husk of the oat (called in Scotland seeds). These seeds con- tain a good deal of farinaceous matter after they are separated from the oatmeal, and this matter is converted into a very nourishing and palatable article of food. In some of the northern towns of Scotland thin sowens are drunk on New Year's Day morning, while " but- tered sowens wi' fragrant lunt" is in rural districts the supper for Hallow-Eve. This dish is known in England, Wales, and Ireland as " flummery." It is ver>- good eaten cold, and will turn out iu a shape, making a kind of oat- meal jolly. To prepare it, soak any quantity of oatmeal seedc in a tub or large jar, and pour