VEN ( 1082 ) VEN •which is utterly absurd. I approve of the practice of flouring rotistod moiit, if it bo douo early enough to imbibe the gruvy, and got nicely browned, when it becomes very tasty. In the other case, the froth of the flour and butter adheres to the palute, and has an aborai- niiblo taste. I like to remove the paper from the venison a few nunutes before it is served, and glaze the venison with very good glaze; some lino salt must be spread over it before the glaze is applied. This method is better and more tasty than the other. Venison, Haunch of, To Carve.— This is not a very difficult task. In carving a haunch of venison, first cut it across down to the bone in the line a n; then turn the dish with the knuckle farthest from you, put in the point of the knife, and cut down as deep as you can in the direction shown by the dotted lines; you may take out as many slices as you please on the right and left. The knife should slope in making the first cut, and then the whole of the gravy will be received in the well. It is held by genuine epicures that some parts of the haunch are better flavoured than others, but it is doubtful whether ordinary palates wiU detect any difference. Slices of HAUNCH OF VBHISON, TO CARVE. venison should not be cut thick, and plenty of gravy should be given with thembut as there is a particular sauce made for this meat with red wine and currant jeUy, your guest should be asked if he pleases to have any. The fat is very apt to get cool soon, and become hard and disagreeable to the palate; it should, therefore, always be served upon a water-dish. Venison, Imitation of, Potted.—Rub the bottom of a deep dish three or four tunes with freshly-cut garlic, and pour into it half a pint of claret. Season a piece of lean beef weighing about four pounds liberally with pep- per, salt, and powdered mace. Lay it in the wine, and let it remain for two days. Turn it frequently. Put it into a jar which has a closely-fitting lid, pour the wine over, cover lightly, and place it in the oven in a shallow tin filled with boiling water. Bake till tender, and put boiling water into the tm under it when necessary. Take the beef up, let it get cold, pound it to a smooth paste, and add further seasoning if required, together with about halt a pound of clarified butter, which is to be put in gradually whilst the meat is being pounded. Press the paste into pots, and cover with clari- fied butter. Time to bake the beef, one hour and a half. Probable cost of beef, lid. per pound. Venison, Marinaded and Baked.— Takij a sliouldor of voni«on, boue and flatten it, lay it in a deep dish witli a ]jint of vinegar, lialf a pint of oil, a sliced onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, the grated rind of a Seville orange, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered sugar. A glassful of white wine may be added or not. Let it remain in tliis marinade for forty-eight hours,and turn it about three or four times. Take it up, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderately-heated oven until done enough. Serve with venison sauce. Time to bake the venison, one and throe-quarters to two hours, according to size. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison, Melon Pickle for (see Melon Pickle). ■ Venison, Mock; or Mutton Dressed to Taste like Venison, Stewed.—Take a loin of mutton, or even a neck of mutton, cut long in the bones, and hang it in a cool, airy situation for several days. Skin and bone it, lay it in a stewpan, pour over it a pint of stock or water, and add a large onion stuck with ten or twelve cloves, eight peppercorns, a table- spoonful of vinegar, and three glassfuls of port. Let it boil, skim it, put with it a smaU bunch of sweet herbs and a little salt, and let it simmer very gently till tender. Turn it over two or three times that it may be equally cooked. Serve with strong gra\'y made from the bone^ and with red-currant jelly. The gravy may be made as follows:—Put the trimmings and bone of the mutton into a stewpan with a slice of butter. Shake them over the fire till lightly browned. Pour upon them as much stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently for an hour and a half. Strain the liquor, let it cool, free it from fat, and season with salt only, that its flavour may not over- power that of the meat. Boil it up, and serve very hot. If not sufiiciently coloured, a very small quantity of sugar browning may be added. Time to stew the mutton, about three hours. Probable cost. Is. per pound. SufiScient for six or seven persons. Venison, Mock; or Mutton Dressed to Taste like Venison, Roasted—Take a fine loin of mutton, and hang it m a cool, airy situation for a week or more. Two days before it is to be dressed, bone it, remove the kidney fat and the skin from the upper part, and rub into the meat a powder made of two ounces of brown sugar, an ounce of ground black pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of allspice. Put it into an earthenware pan, pour upon it two or three wine-glassfnls of port, and cover with the skin. Turn and rub it twice a day. Sponge lightly ^^^th lukewarm water to clear it from the spice, dry it perfectly, wrap it in the skin, cover with coarse paste, and roast according to the directions already given for roasting haunch of vemson. berve with strong unflavoured mutton gravy and with venison sauce. Time to roast the mutton, thirteen minutes to the pound, when weighed with the paste. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Venison, Mutton Cooked lU^e.- Take a lillet of the leg of mutton, and steep it