WIN ( 1141 ) WIN Wines, Home-made.—Home-made wines differ chiefly from foreign or grape wines in containing a much greater quantity of malic acid, whilst the wine of the grape contains chiefly tartareous; for it is the presence of super-tartrate of potash by which the grape is most strongly distinguished from all the other sub-acid fruits applied to the purposes of wine- making. This salt is most abundant in the grape before ripening, and a portion of it dis- appears during this process. A consideration of this diversity led Dr. Macculloch to point out to the public the useful practice of introducing super-tartrate of potash into all those juices of fruits which are intended for the basis of home- made wines. This salt is doubtless decomposed during the fermentative processes, and a con- siderable quantity of what remains is sub- sequently deposited in the casks or bottles in which the wine is kept, constituting what is termed the crust of the wine. Few of our home- made wines possess an intense colour; with the exception of the elderberry, mulberry, and the black cherry, scarcely any colour is contained in our domestic fruits. The colouring of home-made wines may be effected by bil- berries, mulberries, or the husk of elder- berries; these substances impart a fine red colour to vinous fluids; they are sometimes suffered to ferment with the must, to render the colour more intense. The practice of making wines from the produce of our gardens is deserving of very general attention. Foreign wines are entirely beyond the reach of the poor; and, therefore, the benevolent will en- deavour to supply them, in age and sickness, with the best substitutes which our native fruits will afford. The following domestic fruits are well calcu- lated for the fabrication of wine :—The goose- berry, elderberry, mulberry, raspberry, black- berry, strawberry, red currant, black currant, white currant, and cranberry. These ferments will afford good and wholesome wines. It is a vulgar prejudice to suppose that the wines made from our domestic fruits are unwhole- some. They may disagree with the constitu- tions of some persons, but no fact can warrant the assertion that they are more injurious than wines made from the grape. The pulpy fruits of our gardens, such as the peach, nectarine, plum, cherry, damson, and apricot, may also be employed; but, upon the whole, they answer not so well for the fabrication of wines as the domestic sub-acid esculent berries. The gooseberry and currant are, of all other fruits, most commonly employed in the fabrica- tion of homo-made wines ; and, on the whole, they are best adapted for the purpose. When used in their green state, both gooseberry and currant may be made to form light brisk wines, falling little short of champagne. Ripe gooseberries are capable of making sweet or dry wines; but these are commonly ill-flavoured, particularly if the husk has not been carefully excluded. Ripe currants, if properly managed, make much bettor wines than gooseberries. These fruits are much impi-oved, according to Dr. Macculloch, by boiling jjreviously to fermentii- tiwii. This, he states, is particularly the case with the black currant, which, when thus managed, is capable of making a wine closely resembling some of the best of the sweet Cape wines. The strawberry and raspberry are capable of making both dry and sweet wines of agreeable quality. The elderberry is capable of making an excel- lent red wine. Its cheapness also recommends it. It does not, indeed, possess any great degree of flavour, but it possesses no bad one, which is a negative property often of great importance in artificial wine-making. The cherry produces a wine of no very peculiar character. If used, care should be taken not to bruise too many of the stones, otherwise a disagreeable bitter taste will be imparted to the wine. The blackberry and mulberry are capable of making coloured wines, if managed with that view: they are deficient, however, in the astrin- gent principle; nevertheless, they may be occasionally employed with advantage when a particular object is to be gained. The sloe and damson are so associated in qualities that nearly the same results are obtained from both. Their juice is acid and astringent, and hence they are qualified only for making dry wines. By a due admixture of currants or elderberries with sloes or damsons, wines not unlike the inferior kinds of port are often produced. Grapes, of British growth, are capable of making excellent sparkling and other wines by the addition of sugar. The grapes may be used in any state, however immature; when even but half-grown and perfectly hard they succeed perfectly. Raisins are extensively used in this country for making domestic wines, therefore they deserve to be mentioned here. When properly managed, they are capable of making a pure and flavourless vinous fluid, well adapted for receiving any flavour which may be required, and thus of imitating many wines of foreign growth. The orange and lemon are likewise used for making domestic wines. Upon the whole, however, they are not very well adapted for the purpose, as they contain too little acid and too little of the extractive or fermentative juice. The quince, from its analogy to the apple and pear, is better qualified for making a species of cider than wine. The following is the art of making wine from native fruits. We start upon the grounds that home-made wines are intended to be imitations of foreign wines. In the first place, therefore, we have to prepare a juice or must similar to i the juice or must of the grape in its general composition. Now, no fruit whatever yields a juice precisely similar to that of the grape. In our northern climate, more especially, the sac- charine principle, which is the fundamental basis in wme-making, exists in very minute proportion in most fruits. It must be, there- fore, suppbed artificially. The tartaric acid, or rather super-tartrato of potash, which is another essential principle in wine-making, is likewise wanting in most of our fruits. This, therefore, must be supplied. On the contrirv.