SUP SUP ( 945 ) improves the appearance of a supper-table as | plenty of flowers. AVhen these can be had, they should be placed not only in the centre of the table, but here and there upon it. A small vase may be placed before each guest. A supper-room should be brilliantly lighted. The table should be covered with a white cloth. The most orna- mental dishes should be placed in the centre, with the smaller ones surrounding them. The colours and flavours of the various-dishes should contrast (care being taken that there are not too many white dishes), and the table should be neither overcrowded nor too much broken up. The dishes exactly opposite each other should correspond in shape and size. As it is impor- tant that the eye should be pleased as well as the palate, particular attention should be paid to the garniture of the dishes. Ai'ticles that wiU allow of it should be glazed and orna- mented with artificial flowers, &c. Melted lard, thinned with a little salad-oil, may_ be used for decorating hams and tongues; raised i pies should be covered with clear aspic jelly i cut into dice, and everything should be lightly j and gracefully arranged. Bright parsley, : scraped horseradish, cut lemon, red beetroot, ' nard-boiled eggs, &c., will aU be needed for jfirniture. Sweet dishes may be ornamented ' with crackers. Precise instructions cannot of i course be given as to the details of a supper-table, j as these must be regulated by the means of the host, the resources of the establishment, the size of the room, and the length and shape of the table. A list of articles suitable for supper : may, however, be useful, and we subjoin one. ! Roast game or poultry, cold meats of various kinds, hams, tongues, galantines, raised pies, boiled fowls, oyster patties, sandwiches, collared ' eels, lobster salads, mayonnaise of salmon, &c. ' To these may be added sweet dishes, such as i creams, jellies, custards, trifles, blancmanges, ! cakes, tarts, putfs, j)reserved or dried fruits, rice, sago, &c., in various forms, compotes of fniit, fancy pastry, dishes of fresh fruit, bon- bons. "When the supper is a standing one, as a m itter of convenience, and to facihtate opera- tions, game and poultry should be cut up, meat sliced, and everj-thing placed so that it may be served with as Uttle trouble as possible. Some- ' times a plate of hot soup is served to each guest at the commencement of supper, and proves a welcome refreshment. I Suppers, Wholesomeness of.—In the time oi Elizabeth, the nobility and gentry , were accustomed to dine at eleven, to sup be- tween five and six, and go to lied at ten. It is therefore evident that any argument in favour of this meal, founded upon the healthy condition of cur ancestors, must be fallacious. By supper, in modern times, we understand a late meal just before bedtime. But as sleep is not favourable to every stage of digestion, it is very questionable whether retiring to rest with a full stomach can, under any circumstances, be salutary. During the first part of the process, or that of chymification, a person so situated may perhaps sleep quietly, unless indeed the morbid distention of the stomach should impede respiration and occasion distress; but when tlu! food has passod out of the stomach, and the processes of chylifi- cation and sanguification have been established, the natural propensity of the body is for ac- tivity, and the invaUd awakes at this period and remains in a feverish state for some hours. Upon this general principle, then, sup- pers are to be avoided; that is to say, hearty suppers which require the active powers of the stomach for their digestion. The same objection cannot be urged against a light re- past, which is generally useful to dyspeptics; and it has been truly and facetiously observed that "some invalids need not put on their nightcaps if they do not first bribe their sto- machs to good behaviour." An egg lightly boiled, or a piece of dry toast, with a small quantity of white-wine negus, wiU often secure a tranquil night, which would otherwise be passed with restlessness. Amongst the intel- lectual part of the community there has ever existed a very strong predilection in favour of suppers; the labour of the day has been per- formed ; tho hour is sacred to conviviality, and the period is one which is not likely to be interrupted by the calls of business. To those in health some indulgence may occasionally be allowed; but the physician should be cautious how he gives his sanction to their wholesome- ness. The hilarity which is felt at this period of the day must not be received as a signal for repairing to the banquet, but aa an indication of the sanguification of the previous meal.—Dr. Paris. " Much," saj-B Dr. Spenser Thomson, " has been said respecting the wholesomeness of eating suppers—much depends on circum- stances. Generally speaking, animal food once a day is sufiicient for most; if, therefore, an individual for whom it is enough, after a suf- ficiently good meat-dinner, adds a superfluous meat-supper shortly before retiring to rest, there can be little wonder if he pays the penalty in sleep disturbed by dreams and nightmai-e, and by a furred tongue and unrefreshing waking in the morning. This is especially tho case if the superfluity is indulged in after a dinner made in the latter part of the day. If dinner is early, if much exercise is taken be- tween that and the evening meal, and if supper is not eaten at too late an hour, many persons can take with benefit a moderate proportion of animal food. It certainly is better not to eat a meal heavy, either in quantity or quality, before a period of inactivity and sleep so prolonged as that of the night; but there is no doubt that much of the bad character of supper as a meal has arisen from its being so often one of super- fluity. Those to whom suppers are most in- jurious are the plethoric, or such as suffer from head symptoms. Some persons, however, especially dyspeptic invalids, do themselves harm by abstaining from suppers of every kind, even after the principal meal has been taken early in the day. They do this under the idea that all suppers are bad, and suffer in conse- quence from uneasy sensations in the stomach during the night and from a sense of exhaustion in the morning, both of which may be pre- vented by a moderate supper of light food, such as is generally found to agree best; many a, dyspeptic will find his morning meal better digested after a light supper than -(vithout."