( 728 ) REN Rennet (other ways).—For the preparation jf r»^>nuot thoro are niany rocipos; the following will bo found ono of the host:—Tako a calf'H stoniach-bag or maw, wash it clean, bait it tho- roughly inside and out, and let it lie for two or throe days. Hang it up to drain f(U' another two or three days, then re-salt it, and put it into a jar covered with paper, pricked with pinholes. It may be used in a few days, but keeping im- [iroves it. When priiparcd for use, a haudf ul of -sweetbriar leaves, of dog-rose leaves, and of lirauiblo-leaves, together with three or four handfuls of salt, ai-e boiled in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour, and when quite cold the salted maw is added, together with a lemon stuck round with a quarter of an ounce of cloves. There must be enough salt to admit of some remaining always at the bottom undis- turbed, and the steep must be scummed as often as is necessary. " In Essex they practise another plan, which is to take the fourth or last ventricle of a calf, commonly called the bag, and opening it, they take out the curd, picking it well of hairs, which are mixed plentifully with it; then the}'- wash it and put it into the bag again, with a good quantity of salt, and keep it in a well-glazed earthen vessel till they use it, as follows :—If they first make cheese in the beginning of the spring, they boil salt and water together till the water is saturated with salt, and will dissolve no more, and steep the bag, having been first prepared as before, in it; but when they have made cheese (by rennet pre^dously prepared) they steep it altogether in whey well salted by boiling salt in it, and sometimes, to give it a high flavour, they boil spices with it. The aromatics are matters of fancy, and may either be used or omitted; some only prepare a quart of rennet from one stomach, and others a gallon, but the stronger the rennet the less will be required to the milk." Rennet, Gallino.—Gallino rennet is that which is made from the rough coating of the gizzards of fowls or turkeys, and milk coagu- lated with it is more delicate than it would be if common rennet were used. To prepare it, carefully preserve the skin of the gizzards when about to di-ess poultry. Cleanse it thoroughly, and rub it well with salt. Stretch it out, and let it dry. About the same quantity of skin must be soaked as is needed for ordinary rennet, and it should be laid into water the night before it is wanted for use. Rennet, Gallino {see Gallino Rennet). Rennet, Liquid.—Take twelve ounces of fresh rennet, cut small, and three ounces of common salt; knead them together, and leave the mixture at rest in a cool place for five or six weeks; then add eighteen ounces of water and two ounces of good proof spirit or rum. Digest for twenty-four hours; filter the liquid, and colour it with a little burnt sugar. Two or three tea-spoonfuls will curdle a q'lart of milk. Rennet, Substitute for.—It sometimes happens that no rennet sufUciently good for curdling milk can be obtained, hence various plants have been advantageously employed for this purpose. The principal of these are the llowers of the yellow ladies' bedBtraw used in England, and the eardown in Spain. A strong infusion is made of the down of the latter vegetable in the evening, and on tho succeeding morning half a ]jint is poured upon fourteen gallons of new milk, which h thus eifoctually coagulated, and in conaequence pro- duces a delicious cheese. Rennet Whey.—To prepare rennet whey, place a quart of milk in a basin surrounded with boiling water, till the milk is of a blood heat, or a little warmer, and then mix witli it a tea-spoonful of rennet; remove it from tlie warm water, and the milk will soon be com- pletely coagulated; then brake down the curd, and pass the whey through a strainer, which will leave the curd behind. This whey is always rendered somewhat whitish l>y a very smar. 'ind much-divided portion of the caseous part, but as a sick diet drink this does no Mnju: /. The whey, however, if it is wished, may be clarified. Put in a basin the white of an egg, a wine-glassful of the whey, and four or five grains of tartaric acid in powder; whisk these well together with a bunch of peeled twigs or an egg-whisk, and add the remainder of the whey; place the mixtui-e over the fire till it begins to boil. The tartaric acid com- pletes the coagulation of the white part of the milk, which remains; the white of the egg, as it becomes hot, coagulates, and envelops the caseous part. When the whey is clear, pour it off; some filter it through blotting-paper, but this is unnecessary, as it is easy keeping out that part which is imited with the albumen of the egg. Rennett.—" This is the common name, not only in English, but, with slight modifications, in French, German, and other languages, of a class of apple, including many of the most beautiful and pleasant varieties. Thej* are of a very regular and nearly globose shape; their skin has generally a rusty tinge, and often a kind of imctuousness to the touch; their flesh is finely granular, and besides being sweet and agreeably acid, thej'^ have a peciiliar aromatic flavour. They do not keep well." Restorative Broths.—Take one pound of scrag of mutton. Break the bone with a chopper, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of water. Add a little salt, a small onion, a small turnip, a stick of celery, and a table- spoonful of pearl barley. Let the liquor boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer for two hours. Skim care- fully, strain, and the broth will be ready for use. The meat may bo 8er\'ed with parsley and butter or caper sauce. Suflicient for one quart of broth. Probable cost, 6d. per pint. Or split a calf's foot, and put it into a saucepan with two pounds of fresh knuckle of veal broken up. Add a large onion, half a small parsnip, a leek, a little s;vlt. and three quarts of cold water. Bring the broth to the boil, skim it, then simmer it gently for four hours. A (juartcr of an hour before it is taken up skim it once more, and throw into it a handful of cher\'il, ten large sorrol-lcaves, and a cabbage lettuce finely shred. Strain the broth, and it is