POS ( 618 ) POT domestic remedy for eoldH. It is taken before going to hed. I.emon-juieo, strong old ulo, ' or even vinegar, is somotimos 8ul)8tituted for wino, and powdered ginger or nutmeg added : to taste. Posset Wine.—Grato finely the crumb of a stale roU, and put it into a Baucepuii with a pint of water and two largo lumps of sugar [ which have been rubbed upon the rind of a Seville orango until the yellow part has been taken off. Let the mixture simmer until it is thick and clear, then add a pint of light wine, two ounces of sweet ahnonds, and six bitter ones blanched and pounded, half tlio juice of the Seville orange, and sugar to taste. Mix thoroughly, and serve. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the wino. Potage (a la Colbert).—Take a quarter of a pound of carrot and a quarter of a pound of turnip, and turn them into squares, diamonds, rounds, or any other shapes of unifonn size. Boil them in slightly salted water until they ai'e done enough. Drain them, and jjut them into a clean stewpan, with three pints of deli- cately-flavoured clear soup. Let them boil a minute; then serve the soup. Send half a dozen poached eggs to table on a separate dish, or adopt a more usual method, serve the poached eggs in the tureen with the soup. Potage (a la Conde).—Soak a breakfast- cupful of red haricot beans in cold water all night. Slice an onion, put it with the beans, and boil in three pints of water for four hours. Pass the liquid through a hair sieve, and rub the beans through with a wooden spoon. Put pulp.and liquid back into the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, stir till the soup boils, and serve. Potage (a la Crecy).—A superlative carrot soup.—Slice off the red part of a dozen large carrots, and put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a large lump of sugar, three good-sized onions, two turnips, a dozen pepper- corns, a quarter of a pound of undressed lean ham, the outer sticks of two heads of celerj', and four leeks. Cover, then sweat the vegetables over a gentle fire for ten minutes. Shake the saucepan to keep the contents from burning. Pour over them a quart of cold stock or water, and let them simmer gently for two hours, or until the vegetables are quite tender. Strain off the soup, and press the vegetables with a wooden spoon through a sieve. Mix the pulp again with the stock, season with pepper and salt, put it back into the stewpan, and let it boil. Draw it to the side of the fire for a few minutes, and skim off the fat as it rises to the surface. Add pepper and salt, and serve. Send toasted sippets to table in a separate dish. If there is no stock at hand, and water has to be used for the soup, a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat should be added to it. Time, three hoTirs and a half. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Potage (a la Heine).—This is a delicate white soup, said to bo a great favourite with Her Majesty.—Skin and wash carefully throe young chickens or two large fowls, and boil them in five pints of good nicoly-flavoured veal stock for about an hour. Lift them out, i)i( k off all the white meat, put the bodies of the birds again into the Ht(;wpun, and let thcni simmer an hour and a half longer. Season tlie broth with salt and cayenne, and when it in sufliciently simmered pour it out, lot it cool, and thoroughly take off the fat which ri.ses to the surface. Pound the white flesh of the birds to a perfectly smooth paste, and with it a tea-cupful of finely-grated bread-crumbs. lUx. gradually with this paste a small quantity of the ])oiling stock, and press it through a fine hair sieve. Add the rest of the stock, and stir the whole over a gentle fire in a clean saucepi'.n until it boils. Add from a pint to a pint and a half of boiling cream. Serve very hot. If liked, the cream may be slightly flavoured with almonds. If veal broth is not at hand, a little may be made as follows:—Buy a knuckle of veal from which nearly all the meat has been cut oft'. Break it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with half a i)ound of leitn ham cut up small—or a ham bone—a small carrot, a small onion, a head of celery, a large blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a dozen white peppercorns. Pour over these a gallon of cold water. Bring the liquid slowly to the boil, skim very carefully, then draw the pan to the side and let the contents simmer for six or seven hours until the stock is reduced to five pints. Pour the soup out, and leave it until the next day. Take the fat from the top, and pour oft' the soup with- out the settlings. Boil the fowls in this stock. If the soup is not sufficiently thick, it may be- made so with a little arrowroot or ground rice. Time, about four hours. Probable cost. Is. 8d. per pint, exclusive of the veal stock. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Potage (a la Xavier). — Mix the well- beaten yolks of four eggs and the white of one with three-quai-ters of a pint of fiour. Add a little pepper and salt, the eighth part of a mitmeg grated, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and mix all the ingredients- thoroughly. Stir in as much stock as will make the batter thin enough to pass through a colander. Boil two quai-ts of strained and nicely-flavoured stock. Put the batter into it by means of a ladle perforated with holes, and stir well as long as it is on the fire. Skim carefully. Boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, 7d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Potage, Bisque {see Crayfish Soup or Potage Bisque). Potage de Veau.—Take a knuckle of veal weighing about five pounds;. Cut off the meat, not too closely, and break the bone into- small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with an onion, a largo blade of mace, a dozen popper- corns, a bimch of parsley, and a small .sprig of thyme. Pour over all two quarts of cold water. Cover the saucepan clo.soly, and simmer the liquid gently for five hours. Strain the soup, and leave it until the next day; it ought to form a jelly. Put it, free from fat and si-di- niont, into' a stewpan, with a little pepper and salt, and anv vegetables or mixture of vegetables that'may be chosen. Jerusalem