YEA YEA ( 1152 ) Yeast.—Yeast is a substanco produced duriug tho fonnontution of wine, hmr, and vogiitablo j uicua: it ia iisod to raiso dougli for broad and cakos, and to mako it light and puii'y. Tho bust yoast is tliat taken from good brewer's ale, though it is generally too bitter to use without preparation. This yeast, however, cannot always bo obtained, and Greriuan yeast is frequently used as a substitute. This yoast is excellent when it can be procured fresh and good, and free from the bitter taste to wliich brewer's yoast is liable: it is fre- quently olfered for sale when unfit for use, especially in hot weather. When neither good brewer's yeast nor fresh Gennan yeast can be procured, yeast made at home may be used as a substitute; and two or thi-ee recipes are given for its preparation. It is scarcely so strong as brewer's yeast, however, and therefore a larger quantity of it will need to be used. Half a pint of solid brewer's yeast will raise fourteen pounds of flour. If the brewer's yeast is thin, a few spoonfuls more will be needed. Yeast (another way).—Boil a small handful of hops in a quai't of water for half an hour. Pour it boiling upon a close sieve or colander upon three-quarters of a pound of white flour. Give it a stir, and let it stand till new-milk- wai-m, then add a breakfast-cupful of yeast fi'om the baker's; stir again, and let it stand near the fire for twenty-four hours. A pint of this yeast makes twenty-one pounds of fiour into bread. By keeping a small quantity of this yeast in a bottle, to add to the new, one may be quite independent of baker's or brewer's yeast. This yeast will keep a fortnight if either bottled or covered in a jar. Yeast, Baker's.—Put two ounces of hops into a saucepan, and pour over them one gallon of cold water. Bring the liquor to the boil, and keep it boiling, stirring well for one hour. Strain it, and mix with it two pounds of malt. Cover, and leave it till it is the heat of new milk. Stir into it briskly half a pint of solid brewer's yeast, let it work for ten hours, strain through a sieve, and it wiU be ready for use. Yeast, Bread without.—" Some years since," says Miss Acton, in her Bread-book, " when unfermented bread was first becoming known, I had it tried very successfully in the following manner, and I have since been told that an almost similar method of preparing it is common in many parts both of EngLand and Ireland, where it is almost impossible to pro- cure a constant supply of yeast. Blend well together a tea-spoonful of pounded sugar and fifty grains of the purest carbonate of soda; mix a salt-spoonful of salt with a pound of flour, and rub the soda and sugar through a hair sieve into it. Stir and mingle them well, and make them quickly into a firm but not hard dough with some buttermilk. Bake tho loaf well in a thoroughly-heated but not fierce oven. In a brick or in a good iron oven a few minutes less than an hour would be sufficient to bake a loaf of similar weight. The butter- milk should be kept till it is quite acid, but it must never he in the slightest degree rancid or otherwise bad. All unfermented bread should be placed in the oven directly it is made, or it will 1)0 heavy. For a large baking allow rather less tliau an ounce of soda to tho gallon (7 lbs.) of Hour." Yeast, Brewer's, To prepare for use.—Taste tlui yoast, and if it is V(;ry bitter, pour over it a considomblo quantity of <x»ld water. Lot it stand for twenty-four hours, then pour oft" tho water, when the yeast will bo found at tho bottom of tho vessel quite tliick. Taste it again. If it still continues bitter, pour more water over it, and let it stand an hour or two longer. Yeast may be kept covered with cold water for several days. When brewer's yeast does not appear sufficiently strong, honey or brown sugar may be mixed with it, in the proportion of a tea-spoonful to half a pint. Sufficient, half a pint of solid brewer's yeast will raise fourteen pounds of flour. If it is thin, a few spoonfuls more will be required. Yeast Cake.— Put three-quarters of a poimd of flour into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt. Dissolve quarter of a poimd of butter in quarter of a pint of hot milk. Let the mixtui'e cool a little, and when it is new- milk-warm, stir it into the flour. Add a small table-spoonfiil of fresh yeast and two well- beaten eggs, and knead the preparation till it forms a smooth dough, ilake two or three gashes across the surface with a knife, cover the bowl with a cloth, and set the dough in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently light, knead it again with six ounces of currants picked and dried, four ounces of powdered white sugar, one oimce of candied peel cut into thin strips, and a little grated nutmeg. Line a good-sized cake-tin with buttered paper, and let the paper rise four or six inches above the tin. Pour the mixture mto it, let the cake rise half an hour longer, and bake in a well- heated oven. Protect the surface of the cake with a sheet of paper whilst it is being baked. Time to bake the cake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, la. Sufficient to make a moderate-sized cake. Yeast Cake (another way). — Mix thoroughly in a bowl two poimds and a half of flour, a pinch of salt, and half a pound of Demerara sugar. Make a hollow in the centre of the flour, but do not touch the bottom of tho bowl. Pour into this haif a pint of lukewarm milk which has been mixed with a table-spoon- ful of fi-esh yeast. Stir as much flour into the milk as will make it of the consistency of batter, sprinkle a little flour on the surface, throw a cloth over the bowl, and leave it in a warm place for an hour. Melt three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter to oil, and add this to the other ingredients, together with a pound and a quarter of currants picked and dried, liiilf a pound of candied peel (lemon, orange, and citron together) finely shred, a quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of ground allspice. Knead the mix- ture thoroughly, and add as much n;ilk as will make a smooth, light dough. Lino three moderate-sized cake-tins with buttered paper,