( 847 ) SEA SEA to a temperature, during the process of baking, .sufficiently hijjh to effect its destruction, and thereby cause its peculiar taste to disappear, which is not the case when merely boiled, as •for soup. If, however, cane sugar be added to the soup, a compound is said to be formed ot the sugar with the chlorides, which has not the disagreeable tiuite of the latter. Seaweeds used as Articles of Diet. Amongst seaweeds, which have been used as articles of diet, none is better known than the Chrondrus crispus, which, under the name of •carrageen moss, Irish moss, and pearl moss, has been long eaten in Europe. It is recommended as a medicine, but it has no bitter principle, and probably is less tonic than the lichen. Sea- weeds have occasionally been resorted to by the 3)Oorer inhabitants of the seashores of Europe, more especially in Ireland, when the ordinary <5om or potato crop has failed. They, however, contain but little nutriment, and any one livmg on nothing else would soon starve. Laver-weed is a peculiar kind of seaweed. Gosse, in his handbook to South Wales, describes it as one ■of the edible curiosities of the Gower Coast. Women attend the Swansea market, and sell it in small round pats at Id. and 2d. each. Gosse says that the weed makes an excellent ingre- dient in sauce for mutton. It is obtained close to low-water mark. To prepare it, wash it well in sea-water to free it from sand, then boil it for twelve hours, and season with salt. In winter it is only necessary to boil it for two hours. The weed grows rapidly, except in winter, and is renewed every other spring- tide. It is also used in some parts of Scot- land on the coast, where it is called sloke or slokum. Seal.—To the Esquimaux the seal is of as much importance as bread to a European. Its flesh forms their most usual food; its fat is partly dressed for eating, and partly consumed in their lamps; the liver when fried is esteemed, even among sailors, as an agreeable dish. Seasoning.—The art of seasoning dishes can only be acquired by experience. Accurate directions cannot possibly be given, because tastes differ so widely, and that which is agreeable to one may be insipid to another, and too highly seasoned for a third. A cook should endeavour to ascertain the taste of those she serves, and should adapt the seasoning to meet their requirements. She should add the Beasoning in small quantities, as she can easily put in more if needed, but cannot remove what is already there. All solid ingredients—as herbs, spices, and vegetables—need the action of heat to bring out their flavour. Liquid flavourings, on the contrary—such as wines, essences, and vinegars —diffuse themselves quickly through any pre- paration into which they are introduced, and, more than this, are frequently lost through being added at too early a period. It is well, therefore, not to put them in till the dish is about to lae served. The cook will find it to her advantage to have already prepared an aromatic seasoning of herbs and spices. This should be kept in a closely-stoppered bottle, and after a little has been used, it should bo closely stoppered again (see Herbs and Spices, Aromatic, Seasoning ot, and Herbs, Aromatic, Powdered). A good deal of iudgment is needed in using salt and pepper. Judiciously used, salt helps to bring out other flavours, and there is scarcely aiiy_ mixture sweet or savoury which will not be improved by the addition of a little salt. Extravagantly used it will overpower every other flavour, and entirely spoil a dish. A soup or stew should be slightly salted at first. It should be salted to a certain extent to remove a raw taste which would otherwise be found; and it should not be sufficiently salted, because as the liquor boils away the salt flavour wiU increase. Generally speaking, it will be conceded that herbs impart a more delicate flavour than spices, and also that old vegetables impart a stronger flavour than young ones. Whatever flavourings are used they should not be per- mitted to overpower the taste of the article which forms the basis of a dish. Ketchups and store sauces should be sparingly adminis- tered, as also should be cayenne pepper, and garlic, and all articles which possess a decided and peculiar zest. All those who have any experience in cookery know very well that the success of a dish depends to a great extent upon the seasoning. Any person, therefore, who desires to excel in the art should bring to the study of it ob- servation, thought, intelligence, judgment, and care, a keen palate, and a steady hand, for these qualifications are all necessary to one who desii'es in preparing food to make it not only wholesome and nourishing, but palatable and pleasant, and perfect of its kind. Seasoning for Forcemeat and Game and Meat Pies.—Take two ounces of dried thyme, an ounce of marjoram, an ounce of rosemary, and two ounces of bay- leaves. Pound these in a mortar, and pass the powder through a hair sieve. Pound separately two ounces of cloves, two ounces of black pepper, and one ounce of cayenne, mix these with the powdered herbs, and add four ounces of grated nutmeg. Weigh the powder, and add to it four times its weight in dried salt. Put it into small bottles, cork these securely, and put them in a dry place till wanted. When mixed with salt in this proportion, one ounce of seasoning will flavour three pounds of force- meat. Seasonings, Every-Day.—The ingre- dients used for these seasonings should be powdered separately, then mixed together, pre- served in dry bottles well stoppered, and stored in a cool dry place. They may be pre- pared during an hour of leisure, and will be found most convenient for flavouring purposes. No. 1. Mixed Spice for flavouring Soups and Gravies.—Take two pounds of black pepper one pound of ginger, half a pound of grated nutmeg, half a pound of allspice, half a pound of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, and three pounds of dry salt. No. 2. Seasoning of Herbs for Soup, Si-c.—Two ounces of thyme, two ounces of sweet marjoram, two ounces of parsley, two ounces of winter savory, one ounce of sweet