APPENDIX. 1163 Funnel, Tin.—A tin funnel is used to prevent waste in passing liquid from one vessel to another. Tin funnels should always be scalded and dried perfectly after being used. Price, 4d. or 6d. Gauffre Irons.—GaulFre irons are a kind of tongs made for the purpose of baking small round cakes over the fire. Price, 7s. 6d. Glaze Pots.—A glaze pot and brush for heating and applying glaze somewhat resembles a glue kettle. When the utensil is not at hand, put the glaze into a jar, place this in a pan of boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it till the glaze is melted. Gravy Strainers.—Gravy strainers are made of tin, and in various shapes and sizes. Perhaps the best and most convenient is one shaped like a jelly-bag, and perforated at the sides. Gravy strainers should be rinsed in hot water and dried each time they are used. Probable cost, Is., Is. 3d., and Is. 6d. each. Gridirons.—The giidiron is an essential article among kitchen utensils, and indeed in all kitchens at least two should be kept—one for fish, and one for chops, steaks, &c. Gridirons are of various shapes and sizes, some being square and some round, or " cii'cular gridirons " as they are called. Some, too, consist of round parallel bars of iron, and some of fluted bars—i.e., gutter gridirons. The circular gutter gridiron is of coui'se adapted to close stoves, and the advantage that gutter gridirons possess over ordinary ones is that much of the fat, &c., that would otherwise fall in the fire and flare is by this means saved. In all ordinary gridirons, of course, all that falls from the meat goes in the fire. Sometimes this is desirable, as in cooking a chop or steak the object of the cook is as much as possible to obtain a black colour outside and a red colour in. In using a gutter gridiron over a rather slack fire it will be found advisable to take a spoon and dip it into the reservoir into which the fat has run, and pour occasionally a few drops into the fire, thereby causing the flare that will turn the meat the colour desired. Very great pains should always be taken in the cleansing of gridirons. Those composed of round bars, after being carefully washed, should be inibbed with scorning paper, by which means only perfect cleanliness is attainable. In cleaning gutter gridirons each gutter should be scraped separately till no stain is left, and extra precautions as to cleanliness should be observed always after cooking bloaters, haddocks, or indeed fish of any kind. In using a gridiron for gi-illing, cai^e should always be taken in the early stages of the process to prevent whatever is grilled from sticking, and consequently burn- ing. For instance, when fish is gi-illed it will be always found advisable to rub the gridii-on with a piece of mutton fat. Hot Closet.—^A hot closet is a kind of cupboard connected with the range, furnished with shelves, upon which plates and dishes can be warmed, and in which various kinds of confectionery can be dried. They are seldom used, excepting in hotels and very large establishments. Price, from 30s. to 60s. Hot Water Dish.—Joints which are to be served very hot, and especially those which are liable to chill quickly, should be placed on a hot water dish. This is a dish arranged with a double bottom, which can be filled with hot water, and which will keep hot both the dish which is over it, and the joint and the gravy which are upon it. The water ought to be boiling hot, and ought not to be poured into the dish imtil the last moment. Probable cost, for a 16-inch dish of Britannia metal, abo\it 37s. 6d. Hot water plates of Britannia metal will cost about 9s. ; if made of tin they will cost 3s. 6d- Covers for the same will cost from Is. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Ice Making Machines,—The following method is the one usually adopted for freezing various preparations :—Procure a few pounds of ice, break it into small pieces, mix three or four large handfuls of bay salt with it, and put it into an ice pail. Put the preparation into a freezing-pot, and cover it. Place this in the midst of the broken ice, cover it, and when it is cold twist it round rapidly, then work it veil with the spatula until it is smooth. If this is not done the ice will be lumpy.