QUE QUE ( 675 ) ei"-ht eggs which liave been whisked to a solid froth, and afterwards the beaten yolks of the eggs. Add gradually a pound of dried flour, a pound of picked and dried currants, and a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, and beat the mixture well between every addition. Butter the queen-cake tins, or, failing these, some snudl tartlet tins, half All them with the batter, and bake in a brisk oven. Just before the cakes ai-e put into the oven, sift a little finely- powdered sugar over them. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3s. 8d. Queen Cakes (another way).—Take a pound of powdered sugar, a pound of well-dried flour, a pound of butter, eight eggs, and half a pound of currants, washed and picked; grate a nutmeg, and an equal quantity of mace and cinnamon; work the butter to a cream, put in the sugar, beat the whites of the eggs twenty minutes, and mix them with the butter and sugar; then beat the yolks for half an hour, and put them to the butter. Beat the whole together, and when it is ready for the oven put in the flour, spices, and currants. Sift a little sugar over the cakes, and bake in tins. Queen Mab's Pudding.—Put a pint and a half of new milk or cream into a sauce- pan with any flavouring that may be prefeiTed— either an inch of stick cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, vanilla, or eight or nine bitter almonds, blanched or sliced. Simmer the liquor gently until it is pleasantly and rather strongly flavoured, then put with it a pinch of salt, four- ounces of loaf sugar, and an ounce of isinglass or gelatine, and stir until the last is dissolved. Strain the mixture through muslin, and mix with it the well-beaten yolks of five eggs. Stir it again over the fire until it begins to thicken, but on no account allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Stir until it is cool, then mix with it an ounce and a half of candied peel and an ounce and a half of dried cherries—or, if preferred, preserved ginger or preserved pine- apple may be used instead of the cherries, and a little of the juice of the fruit may be stirred in with the pudding. Pour the pudding into an oiled motdd, and let it stand in a cool place, or upon ice, xmtil set. Turn the pudding out very carefully, and pour round it a sauce made of clear syrup flavoured with lemon-rind and coloured with cochineal, or, if preferred, mixed with a small portion of strawberry or currant acid. Time, about an hour to prepare the pudding. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, if made with milk and gelatine. Is. lOd. Queen Mary's Sauce for Roast Mutton.—Put a well-hung joint of mutton down to a clear fire, and baste liberally with the contents of the dripping tin. When it is three-parts roasted, drain off the fat, and put a good-sized dish under the meat. Place in this an anchovy, boned and pounded, a small onion, chopped small, and a little popper; pour over it a wine-glassful of port and a wine-glassful of boiling water, and let the droppings of the meat iall into the liquor. Baste the meat with this sauce, and when it is done enough, serve on a hot dish and pour the gravy under it. Suf- ficient for a joint weighing six or seven pounds. Queen's Biscuits.—Make a soft paste of the following materials :—A pound and a half of flour, the same weight of powdered loaf sugar, the yolks of eighteen eggs, the whites of twenty-four, and a sufficient quantity of crushed coriander seeds; a little yeast may also be added, if desired. Make the paste into biscuits, and bake them on paper, at a moderate heat, till they begin to brown. Queen's Custard. — Sweeten a pint of thick cream with two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar. Boil it, allow it to cool slightly, then mix with it very gradually the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs. Put the custard into a heated jug, place this in a pan with boiling water, and stir with a wooden spoon till it begins to thicken. Pour it out, mix with it a wine-glassful of maraschino or noyau, and continue stirring it until it is cold. An ounce of almonds, blanched and thinly sliced, may be added or not. The custard is to be stirred over the fire till it begins to thicken. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Probable cost, 3s. Queen's Drops.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream. Add eight ounces of finely-powdered sugar a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and, gradually, four Avell-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture for five or six minutes, then add lightly eight ounces of dried flour and two ounces of picked and dried cuiTants. Drop the batter from the end of a spoon upon a baking- sheet spread with butter, in small balls the size of a pigeon's egg, and bake in a hot oven. When nearly cold, take the drops off the paper. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Queen's Pudding. — Butter a plain mould or basin rather thickly with butter, flour it well, and stick raisins, slices of candied peel, or dried fruit over the inside in rows. Fill the basin with layers of bread and butter, and put between each layer sugar flavoured with lemon- rind, blanched and sliced almonds, and candied peel. Pour over the whole a pint of milk which has been mixed with four well-beaten eggs. Cover the basin closely, and boil or steam the pudding. Time to boil the pudding, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient, if made in a quart mould, for five or six persons. Queen's Sauce for Boiled Plum Puddings.—Take half a pint of good melted butter, sweeten it, and flavour with powdered cinnamon or grated lemon-rind. Stir into it a glassful of sherry or 'madeira and a glassful of rum shrub. Put the sauce into a tureen, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and it is ready for serving. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Queen's Soup, or Soupe a la Reine. —Skin and clean two fine fowls or three young chickens, carefully removing the dark spongy substance which is inside. Put them into a saucepan, with a bunch of parsley, and pour over them as much good white stock, nicely flavoured, as will cover them. Let them