( 799 ) SAL SAIi If all the salmon in a river are caught, the river will be from that time salmonless, unless it can be re-stocked with young salmon, who, after being reared in it, will at the proper age find their way to the sea and return to the river again. Certainly no stranger salmon cruising along the coast will mistake that river's mouth for its own river's mouth. This fact has been already successfully taken advantage of, and salmon have been naturalised in rivers where formerly there were no signs of them. Salmon are never found in warm latitudes. They are distributed over the North of Europe SALMON. and Asia, and are abundant, and even com- paratively cheap, in some parts of North America. The price is kept up, however, by the facility with which the fish is packed in ice, and sent to a distance by rail. The penny-a- pound times, when apprentices and servants refused to eat salmon more than three times a week, are gone for ever. The flesh of the salmon is rich and delicious in flavour. To be eaten in perfection it should be dressed before it has lost a tide. When this is done there will be found between the flakes a white creamy substance which is very highly esteemed. Nevertheless, the fish when in this condition is very indigestible, and it is much more wholesome when it has been kept a day or two. Then the curd undergoes a change, and melts down, and though less delicate in flavour, the fish becomes richer and much more whole- some. The fle.sh of the male fish has the best flavour, and has more curd than the female. Salmon is in season from the beginning of February to the end of August. It is cheapest in July and August. No other fish can be cooked in so many different ways. It requires to be well done; when underdressed it is wholly uneatable. Salmon (k I'Allemande). —Cut the fish into slices two inches thick, leaving a small portion of fish to the head and the tail four mches long ; take away all the blood from the inaide, throw some wilt over the slices very equally, ;uiji iuJf a^hour afterwards turn them. Leavb tuam thiiw for fifteen or twenty minutes. then wash and drain them upon napkins; buttel a fish-strainer, place the slices upon it flat, and cover the greater part of the flesh with slices of lemon cut very thin and the pips taken out; add hero and tliere four large shallots sUced, whole white pepper, and parsley roots cut in fillets. Two hours before serving put the fish into the kettle, and place it over a bed of Live ashes with fire also at the top; thirty or forty minutes after uncover the fish, and observe that it should be firm if done sufiiciently. Take it ofii, uncover, and let it cool. When serving, take away the shallots and a great part of the parsley roots, dish the salmon on a napkin, com- mencing with the head and afterwards putting down the slices according to their size, to form the fish of its original shape, and surround it with small groups of parsley; having dished it, pour into the kettle four spoonfuls of hot con- somme to collect aU the essence of the salmon, which pass through a silk sieve. Let this be well seasoned, and serve it in boats.* Salmon (a I'Amiral — Soyor's recipe).— Truss a small salmon in the form of the letter S, and boil it in the usual way; dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce :— peel four onions, cut them in slices, and put them into a stewpan with six table-spoonfuls of salad oil; fry them a light brown colour, then pour off the oil, and add two glassfuls of port wine, three cloves, one blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, one table-spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, twenty spoonfuls of brown sauce, and six of brown gravy; re- duce it over a sharp fire for a quarter of an hour, rub it through a tamis, and place it again in a stewpan; boil it again a short time, and finish with one ounce of anchovy butter and two spoonfuls of Harvey Sauce; then place a border of mashed potatoes round the fish, upon which dish a border of quenelles of whiting, and upon every other quenelle stick a prawn, pour the sauce over the fish, and a mazarine sauce over the quenelles; serve very hot. To make the sauce a la Mazarine, have all the spawn from two fine hen lobsters; if not sufficient, get some live spawn from the fishmongers', making altogether about two ounces, pound it well in the mortar, and mix it with half a pound of fresh butter; rub it through a hair sieve, place it upon ice till firm, then put it in a stew- pan with the yolks of four eggs, a little pepper, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and four table- spoonfuls of lemon-juice, place it over the fire, and proceed as for Dutch sauce, adding the same quantity of melted butter and also two tea-spoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Pass it through a tamis into a clean stewpan. to make it hot. Salmon (a la Danois — Danish mode).—• Cut the salmon in slices as directed in the recipe Sahnon a I'Allemande, boil it in water with a little salt, and dish it in its original form, as directed in the receipt named; garnish with potatoes plain boiled, and serve in sauce-boats melted butter mixed with anchovy butter. Salmon {h la Genevese).—Divide a mode- rate-sized salmon into three parts. BoU these in the usual way, and when they are done