( Soli ) SHE SHE half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. Suf- ficient for two or thi-oe persons. Sheep's Head^ Baked, with Mashed Potatoes.—This 18 an inoxponsive and wholo- sonio dish. Clean the head thoroughly, and lot it soak in hilcuwarin water for a couple of hours .to_ got rid of the blood. Put it into a stowpan with a carrot, a turnip, two onions, and a look, all cut into dice, and add a bunch of pai-Bloy, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of marjoram, all tied together, a little pepper and salt, a small lump of sugar, and two ounces of peai-1 barley. Pour two quarts of water into the pan, and dimmer all gently together for a couple of hours. Skim tlie liquor carefully, and stir the ■soup occasionally to keep the barley from burn- ing to the bottom of the pan. Take a pint- basinful of well-washed potatoes, and spread ihem on a dish in a small mound about two inches deep. Take up the head, drain it, place it upon the potatoes, and sprinkle over it two table-spoonfuls of nicely-seasonodbread-crumbs. Lay little pieces of butter or dripping here and there upon it, and bake in a quick oven till both the head and the potatoes are brightly browned. Take the bunch of herbs from the soup, skim it carefully, boil it up once more, and serve in a tureen. Time to bake the head, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sheep's Head Boiled with Vegeta- bles.—Clean the head, split it, take out the brains, and soak it in lukewarm water. Tie the halves together with string, put the head into a saucepan, and pour over it as much cold water as will cover it. Bring this to the boil, skim careflilly, and let all simmer gently together for an hour. Throw into the hquor two turnips, two carrots, two onions, two parsnips, a small bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Mix four ounces of oatmeal smoothly with a little of the liquor, stir it into the rest, let it boU, then cover the saucepan closely, and simmer aU gently together until done enough. Take up the head, and remove the tongue, which should be served Avith the brains on a separate dish {see Sheep's Brains and Tongue). Put the head on a dish, place the vegetables round it, and serve hot. The broth may be used for soup. Time, about two hours and a half. Pro- bable cost, sheep's head. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Broth (a Scottish recipe). —Take a large fat young head and a " gang " of trotters, all carefully singed. Wash and scrape them well, and let them soak in cold water for an hour or two. Take out the eyes, split the head into halves, and remove the brains. Shorten the jaw-bones where there is no flesh, and cut out the gristle inside the nose. Prepare the trotters for dressing (see Sheep's Trotters), wash and brush both head and feet once more, and leave them in water till wanted. Put the two halves of the head together, and tie a string round it to keep the brains and the tongue in their proper places. Lay it in a saucepan with a pound or two of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, a largo cupful of barley, and about half a pint of dried peaa which have been soaked in cold water. Pour over all a gallon of water, and add a little salt; boil the contents of tJio stew- pan very gontly, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. When the head has boiled an hour, put in the trotters, and at the end of two hours add two caiTots, two turnips, and two onioua, all sliced togeth(;r, with a few sticks of celery, if liked. Boil the head three hours or three houi-s and a half longer, and remember tliat tlie more slowly it is boiled the better will be Ijroth, head, and soup. Serve the head on a dish with the trotters round it, and garnish with boiled caiTots and turnips. Serve the sou]> in a tureen. Sometimes the brains are not put inside the head, but are thrown into the broth when it is boiling, simmered for a quarter of an hour, and then served on a separate dish, with brown sauce poured over them. If the sheeps' tongues are not wanted immediately, let them cool in the broth. When they are to be served, warm them up in the same, cut them in halves without separating them, and lay them open on a dish. Send piquante sauce to table with them. Time, five to six hours to simmer the sheep's head. Probable cost, from Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient, one head for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Broth (an English recipe). —Skin the head, spUt it in halves, and remove the brains. Soak the head in water, and wash it well. Put it into a stewpan with half a pound of pearl barley, pour a gallon of water over it, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Care- fully remove the scimi as it rises. Throw in a small handful of salt, with two turnips, two carrots, and two onions, and simmer all gently till the flesh of the head is tender. Lift it out, serve it on a dish, and garnish with turnips and carrots. Serve the soup separately in a tureen. If liked, the brains can be made into forcemeat-balls, fried, and served in the soup. To make these, clear the brains of fibre, throw them into boiling water, and boil them for ten minutes. Pound them well with a spoonful of bread-crumbs, a spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, a little grated lemon- peel, a shce of butter, and pepper and salt. Bind the mixture together with the yolks of two eggs, form it into small cakes, and fry these in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them, and add them to the soup. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost, sheep's head. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. Sufficient, one head for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Curried.—Clean a sheep's head thoroughly, remove the brains, and boil tin tender. Cut the meat from the bones, divide it into neat slices, skin the tongue, and slice it also. Put the pieces in a saucepan, moisten with the liquor in which the head was boiled, and cover the pan until the gravy is made. Mince two onions, and frj' them in a little butter, stirring them briskly over the firo till they are soft. If the acid flavour is liked, a sour apple may be minced and fried with Iheni. Mix a toa-spoonfid of curry-powder and a toa- spoonful of curry-paste smoothly with a littli^ milk, add three-quarters of a pint of the broth in which the head was boiled, and pour the liquor over the onions. Let them sinunor ;i few minutes, then rub the whole tlirougn a