SPO SPO ■( 919 ) containing a lai^ Bpoonfal of orange-flower water. Have ready the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of five beaten separately and then mixed, whisk them weU, and as you do so pour into them the hot syrup. Stand the basin over a saucepan of boiling water, draw it back and whip the mixture for twenty minutes. Stir in lightly o£E the fire half a pound of dried and sifted flour. Add a little finelj'-shred lemon-peel, and put the batter into the baking-pan, which must be greased and sugared as in the last recipe. This cake may be made without the orange-flower water. Sponge Cake, Almond, Superior.— Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, thiow them into cold water as they are done, dry them well, and pound smoothly, sprinkling the whole of three eggs upon them during the pro- cess. Work thoroughly with them a spoonful of grated lemon-rind, a poimd of powdered sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of fifteen eggs. Take the remaining whites of the eggs (making altogether fifteen, inclusive of those which were mixed with the almond-paste), whisk these to a firm froth, and stir them into the cake. Dredge into it a quarter of a pound of dried flour, and beat it briskly for a few minutes. Butter a mould, sift powdered sugar into it, pour the batter in till it is half fuU, and bake immediately. Let the cake stand a few minutes, turn it out carefully, and put it on a sieve. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 28. Sponge Cake, Almond (another way).— See Almond Sponge Cake. Sponge Cake Pudding.—Take three or four stale sponge biscuits, or an equal quantity of stale sponge cake, cut it into slices, put these into a thickly-buttered dish, and pour upon them a pint and a half of boiling milk which has been sweetened and flavoured with a table-spoonful of brandy and with lemon or almond flavouring. Cover the dish with a plate, and let the pudding soak for an hour. Beat it up with a fork, stir into it three or four weU-beaten eggs, pour some clarified fresh butter upon the top, sift powdered sugar on the surface, and bake the pudding in a gentle oven. If liked, cream may be used instead of milk. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sponge Cake, Vanilla {see Vanilla Sponge Cake). Sponge Cakes, Cocoa-nut {see Cocoa- nut Sponge Cakes). Sponge Cakes, Iced. — Make some sponge batter in the usual way, and bake it in a moderate oven in a largo flat «iko an inch thick. When done enough take it out, let it get cold, and with a sharp knife cut it into lancy shapes of any size and form. Put these on a baking sheet, spi oad jam over them, and place (m this a coating of icing a quarter of an inch thi<;k. Put th(!m in a screen or in a wann situation till the icing is firmly set, and use them for dessert, &c. The icing may be prepared as follows ;—Break the whites of two eggs into a bowl, stir into them sufficient fine sugar to make a stiffish paste, and beat the mixture briskly with a wooden spoon. Add every now and then one or two drops of lemon-juice. When ready, cover the icing with a wet cloth till wanted. Sponge Cakes (safe general rule for making all sizes).—Take any number of fresh eggs, with their weight in sugar, haK their weight in flour, and any flavouring that may be chosen. Break the eggs, put the yolks and the whites into separate bowls, and take away the specks. Beat the yolks and the sugar together, add the flour, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. _ Beat the mixture thoroughly, put the batter into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a brisk oven. Sponge Cakes, Small.—No. i. Take eight eggs, with their weight in powdered sugar, and the weight of four of them in dried and sifted fiour. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar and whatever flavouring is ap- proved for a quarter of an hour, stir in the flour lightly and gradually, and when it is smoothly mixed add the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Butter the tins, half fill them with the batter, sift pow- dered sugar over them, and bake in a quick oven. Take them out of the tins before they are cold, place them upside down on a sieve, and let them remain for an hour. Place them in a closely-covered tin canister to re- main tiQ wanted. The cakes must not be allowed to acquire much colour. No. 2. Break five eggs, and put the yolks and the whites into separate bowls. Beat the yolks with half a pound of sugar till the mixture is light and smooth, add the whites whisked to a firm froth, four ounces of dried and sifted flour, and the grated rind and strained juice of one lemon. Put into tins, and bake as before. No. 3. Break two eggs into a bowl. Beat them till light and frothy, add a tea-cupful of powdered sugar, and, gradually, a tea-cupful of dried flour. Put the batter into tins, and bake the cakes in a brisk oven. Time to bake, from ten to fifteen minutes. Sponge Cakes (various recipes).—No. 1. Break seven eggs, and put the whites and the yolks iuto separate bowls. Take out the specks, and beat the yolks of the eggs, add half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, six ounces of dried flour, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Grease a hot tin with butter free from moisture. Wliile still warm, sift sugar upon it, pour in the batter, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Time to to bake, three-quarters of an hoiu- to one hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. for a cake this size. No. 2. Bruise half a pound of vanilla, tie it in muslin, and simmer it gently with a pound of loaf sugar tUl the sjTup is clear and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it through a jelly-bag, and stir it til] cool. Beat the whites of three oggs to a firm froth, stir them into the syrup, add the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, and lastly six ounces of dried flour. When the batter is'thoroughly mixed, pour it int-; p, well-oiled mould, and bak?