PLO ( 686 ) PLTI spoonful of flour, and a glass of sherry. Sim- mer gently by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, luid skim the liquid carefully. Place the bii-ds on a hot dish. Boil the sauce quickly till it is thick and smooth, flavour with the strained juice of a lemon, add a small lump of sugar and half a tea-spoonful of browning, and pour it hot over the birds; serve imme- diately. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, plovers, 2s. 6d. per brace. Sufficient for five or six people. Plovers, Pie of.—Pluck, draw, and skin three plovers, and truss them as for roasting. Lay half a potmd of rump steak cut into convenient-sized pieces at the bottom of a moderate-sized pie-dish, and season these rather highly with pepper and salt. Lay the birds upon them, and beside each bird place the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Clean a dozen moderate-sized mushrooms, cut the stalks ofl:', and lay them at the top of the pie. Pour in half a pint of good brown gravy. Line the edges of the dish with pufp-paste, cover it with the same, ornament prettUy, make a hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake the pie, about an hour and a half. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plovers, Roasted. — Pluck a brace of plovers without di-awing them, and wipe them well outside with a damp cloth. Truss them with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs; bring the head round under the wing. Put them down to a clear fire. Lay in the pan slices of toast, one slice for each bird, first moistening it in good gravy, and baste the plovers liberally. A few minutes before they are done dredge a little flour over them, and let them be nicely frothed. Spread the trail which has dropped from the birds evenly upon the toast, and serve the birds upon it. A little melted butter may be sent to table in a tureen. Time to roast the birds, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, plovers, 2s. 6d. a brace. Sufficient for two persons. ^ Plovers, Stewed.—Pluck and draw % brace of plovers. Mince the trail, and mix with it two ounces of finely-shred beef suet, four roasted chestnuts pounded, the yolks of two hard-boiled, eggs, and two artichoke bottoms boUed and minced; mix these ingredients thoroughly, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Fill the birds with the force- meat, and truss them as if for roasting. Put them side by side in a stewpan just large enough to hold them, pour over them three- quarters of a pint of good brown gravy, and add a glass of port or claret, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-j nice, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, three or four mushrooms, or, failing this, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little pepper and salt if required. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew gently for half an hour. Take up the birds, and put them in a hot dish. Strain the gravy, and thicken it with a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening. If this is not at hand, a little may bo made by mixing equal proportions of flour and butter, and stirring the paste quickly over a gentle fire for three minutes, then putting it into the sauce, and boiling it until smooth. Pour the gravy round the birds, and garnish the dish with plovers' eggs boiled hard, shelled, cut into quarters, and plficed round it. Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost, plovers, 2s. 6d. per brace. Sufficient for two or three persons. Plum.—The plum is an agreeable and refreshing though not very wholesome fruit. There are several varieties, and these may be cooked in a great many ways, all of which are generally acceptable. This fruit, if eaten when unripe or unsound, is almost sure to bi'ing on diarrhoea. It is not so objectionable when cooked. Plum and Pear Jam without Sugar. —Take half a peck of ripe pears, and another of ripe plums. Peel and stone them. Pour a cupful of good cider into a preserving-pan with the fruit, and a quarter of an oimce of powdered cloves. Let the mixture boil gently, with in- cessant stirring, until it is thick and smooth, and be very careful that it does not bum to the bottom of the pan. Pour it into jars, cover with brandied paper and bladder, and store in a cool dry place. Time, about two hours. Plum Beverage, Prench, for In- valids.—Take half a dozen fine French plums. Put them into a stewpan with a pint of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Pour them into a bowl. When cold take out the plums (which may be put aside for eating), sweeten the liquid according to taste, stir into it a table-spoonful of port, and it is ready for use. Probable cost, 6d. Suf- ficient for one person. Plum Buds, to Pickle.—Throw the buds into plenty of hot salt and water, and let them simmer gently untU they are soft. Strain the liquid from them, and let them get quite cold. BoU as much white-wine vinegar as wiU cover them, and flavour according to taste with mace and white pepper. Pour the liquid over the buds, and let them lie in it eight or nine days. Afterwards boil them in the vinegar until they turn green. Pour them into bottles, and when cold cover closely, and store for use. Probable cost uncertain, plum buds being seldom offered for sale. Plum Buns made with Yeast.—Mix half a tea-spoonful of salt with three pounds of best flour. Rub into this three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter or good beef di-ip- ping. Put the mixture into a bowl, and make a hole in the centre. Moisten an ounce of German yeast smoothly and gradually with three-quarters of a pint of lukewarm water. If preferred, a quarter of a pint of good brewer's yeast may be substituted for the German yeast. Put the yeast into the hollow, and mix with it a little of the flour tiU it is like thin batter, then put it on the hearth for about an hour to sponge. Whisk two fresh eggs, and mix with them twelve ounces of moist sugar. Stir them into the yeast, and knead the dough thoroughly with a pint of warm milk. Cover with a cloth, and let the dough stand \mtil it is lightly risen. It will require about an hour and a half. Add si.x oimces of well-washed and dried currants, mould the dough into buns