( 664 ) PBl ordinary -um brush which has boon soakod in hot waller to nuiko it soft, and witli it cover tlio suriaco of the moat oiitiroly wit), tlio dissolved glaze It ought to be laid lightly on ratlier than brushed on, so as not to show the marks of the brush. When one c;oating of glazo is quite stitt give the moat a second ono. and, if liked, a third, riaco the meat on a dish, garnish with parsley, and it is ready for serving. Time to simmer tlio moat, half an hour per pound froiu the time tho water boils after the moat is put in. Probable coat, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Prickly Pear, or Indian Fig.—This fruit IS m the form of a fig or pear, with clusters of small spines on the skin, which enclose a fleshy pulp of a red or purple colour, and an agreeable subacid flavour. Tho plant which produces it is a native of Virginia and Bar- bary. The prickly pear is sent to the dessert in the West Indies. In countries where the fruit abounds it is considered very wholesome, and though the taste is not agreeable to aU persons till they have eaten of it several times, yet they soon become very fond of it. It is now naturalised in many parts of the south of Europe, and north of Africa, and in other warm countries. The prickly pear in some coimtries is extensively employed as an article of diet. It is imported into Britain to a small extent from the Mediterranean. In the south of England the plant grows in the open air, and occasionally ripens its fruit. Prince Consort's Pudding.—Rub three or four large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a small lemon until all the yellow part is taken off, then crush them to powder with a little additional sugar to make up the weight to two ounces. Grate finely six oimces of stale sponge cake, pour over it half a pint of boUing milk or cream, and add the flavoui-ed sugar and a pinch of salt. Let the crumbs Boak until the milk is cold, then beat the mixture with a fork, and stir into it the yolks of four eggs and the white of one well whisked. Butter a mould thickly, and flour it, ornament the inside with dried fruit, pour in the mixture, and tie it over with oiled paper. Put it on a plate turned upside down in a saucepan, and let there be two or three inches of boUing water round it; the water must not come so high as to flow into the pudding.. When it is done enough, turn it out, and send jam and a good custard to table with it, or a sauce prepared as follows:—Pour a quarter of a pint of boiling milk over a tea-spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little boiling milk. Sweeten it, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes. Pour it out, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of any kind of fruit jelly, either red-cun-ant, raspberry, or cherry. The jelly should have been previously dissolved till it is in a liquid state. The sauce may cither be poured round the pudding or served in a tureen. Time to steam the pudding, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d., if made with milk, and exclusive of the sauce. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prince Consort's Pudding (another •way).—Crumble six ounces of stjue sponge cake. Povir over them nulk flavoured with I ulmonds prepared as follows:—Blanch two ounces of sweet aliiiondH and four latter ones. Simmer them softly for half aii hour in a ([uarter of a pint of milk, then pound thorn to a paste, and mix them again with the milk. Add to tho mixture a pinch of salt, two ounces of powdered sugar, tho yolks of four and the white of ono egg, thi'oe table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and two of brandy. Mix these in- gredients thoroughly, then ])our the pudding into a buttered mould, steam, and serve ac- cording to the directions given in the previous recipe. Time to steam, about throe-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prince Frederick's Pudding.—Rub two or three lumps of sugar upon the rind of a fresh lemon until all the yellow part is taken off. Crush it to powder with additional sugar to make up the weight to four ounces. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs, and, when they are thoroughly whisked, put them together, and add the flavoured sugar and the strained juice of the lemon. Butter a tin mould, and half fill it with the mixture. Bake in a quick oven. Serve immediately before the pudding has time to faU. A sauce prepared as follows may be sent to table with it:—Whisk two eggs thoroughly, and mix with them gradu- ally a glassful of sherry or madeira. Add a little sugar which has been rubbed upon lemon-rind and powdered. Pour the mixture into a sauce- pan, and stir it briskly over the fire imtil it is well frothed and very hot; it must not boil. Pour it roimd the pudding, and serve. Time to bake the pudding, ten to fifteen minutes. Pro- bable cost, lOd., exclusive of the sauce. Suffi- cient for three or four persons. Prince of Wales's Ketchup.—Take some ripe elderberries, and strip off the stalks. Fill a jar with the fruit, pour over it as much boiling vinegar as the jar will hold; put it in a cool oven, and let it remain there all night. Strain the liquid, and put with every pint half a tea-spoonful of salt, a blade of mace, four shallots, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a dozen cloves, and two ounces of anchovies. Boil the liquid until the anchovies are dissolved, and when it is quite cold strain it, and bottle for use. This ketchup is chiefly used for fish. Prince's Metal, or Britannia Metal, Utensils of.—One great advantage belong- ing to Prince's metal is that it takes a high polish, and does not tarnish easily. When kept perfectly bright it looks well, far excelling pewter, and approaching in lustre to silver. It is not easily acted upon by acids, and is perfectly safe. One of the most valuable uses to which Britannia metal is appHcd is in the making of spoons, which are not only brighter and more pleasing to the eye than those of pe^vter, but less apt to bend. Princes' Pudding.— Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add a table-spoonful of sifted sugar and tho well-whisked yolks of throe and tho white of one egg. Crush an ounce and a half of macaroons to powder. Stir this into tho pudding, and pour in two table-spoonfuls of bnmdy. Boat tho pudding for some minutes, pour it into a well-buttered