(91?) cream instead of broth. Boil the cream before you throw it over tho spinach. If it should curdle, the cream only is lost, whereas otherwise you would lose the spinach, butter, and all. Spinach with cream requires a little sugar and nutmeg. It is needless to repeat that a little salt is also requisite, as there can be no good seasoning without it. You must always have fried toasts of bread roimd the spinach when you send it up to table. Spinach with Eggs.—Wash the spinach i;i several waters. Pick off all the stalks, reject the decayed and discoloured leaves, and boil the spinach with as much slightly-salted water as wdl keep it from burning. Leave the saucepan uneovered. Press the spinach under the water ocfasionnlly, and let it boil till tender. Put it into a colander, and press the moisture from it with the back of a plate. Mince it finely, then put it into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter and a little pepper and salt, and stir it well till it is hot and dry. Put it on a hot dish, smooth it with the blade of a knife, and mark it in squares. Place as many poached eggs as there are guests on the top of the spinach, or, if preferred, put them round it, each egg on a piece of buttered toast. Serve the whole very hot. If a superior dish is required, the spinach, after being boiled till tender, may be rubbed through a -wire sieve, and the pulp heated with a slice of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of thick cream, and a little pepper and salt. To poach the eggs, proceed as follows:—Break the eggs carefully into separate cups. Have ready a small omelet-pan with as much boiling water in it as will cover the eggs. Throw into this a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a pinch of salt. Slip the eggs gently into the water one at a time. As soon ao one sets, put in another, and boil them gently imtil done enough. When the yolks are covered with a thin fihny vcU, and the whites are firm, lift the eggs out vnth a slice, di-ain them for a moment, and place them on the spinach. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Spinach with Gravy.—Take three pounds of spmach. Pick the leaves from the stalks, and wash them weU in several waters, dram them, throw them into a saucepan with plenty of sUghtly-salted boiUng water, and let them boil for five minutes. Press the spinach, and throw it mto cold water for half an hour to preserve the colour. Take it out of the water a little at a time, make it into smaU balls, press the moisture thoroughly from it, spread It on a dish pick out any stalks or straws that may have been inadvertently left in it, and chop It small. Mix an ounce of butter smoothlv m a saucepan with an ounce of flour, add a pmch of salt, and stir the mixture over the fire lor three m.mites. Put in the spinach, and stir It tor five minutes. Pour in a quarter of a pint ot stock, and when this is thoroughly blended with the vegetable add, a httlo at a time, half a pint more: stir the spinach again for five mmutos Lift it from the fire, stir into it tlu dissolved an ounce of fresh butter, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with triangular gieces of crumb of bread haH an inch tS Spinach when thus diseased wiU constitute enjoyable accompaniment to veal or boUedi mutton. With roast meat it is best when aerved plain. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost of spinach, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Spinach with Gravy (another way).— Prepare the spinach exactly as in the foregoing recipe. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, put in the spinach, and stir it till the butter has dried away. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and as much grated nutmeg as will cover a sixpence. Stir it again, and moisten with two table-ispoonf uls of highly-seasoned veal broth and a tea-spoonf ul of chilli vinegar. Stir it over the fire till the liquid is absorbed, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost of spinach, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Spirit of Lemon-peel.—When fresh lemons cannot be procured, mix two ounces of rectified sphits of wine with one drachm of essential oil of lemons. Put the preparation into a small bottle, and keep it closely stoppered till wanted. The flavour of fresh lemon-peel inay be imparted to any dish by the addition of three or four drops of this mixture. One to two table-spoonfuls of it will also convert a tiunblerful of water into lemonade. Spirits.—These alcoholic drinks diifer from wines and beers in the fact that they are distilled from some form of fermented liquor. We may obtain the alcohol from beer or wine, or from any substance containing sugar which is fer- mented. As an illustration of the sources from which alcohol may be obtained, Loudon, in his " Encyclopasdia of Gardening," tells the story of aoi Irish gardener who was always drunk, yet no one ever knew where he got the means to indulge his propensity. It was not till he was watched with great perseverance that the source of hi» mebnety was discovered. It was found that he had mgeniously contrived to make a small still out of two watering-pots attached by their spouts. Into one of these he introduced a mash ot fermentmg carrots, from which, by the aid of heat from an oil lamp, he was enabled to obtam a coarse imitation of his beloved potheen Alcohol then, under the form of distilled spmts, may be obtained from any saccharine substance m a state of fermentation. Araka is manufactured in Tartary from fermented mares' milk, anka from cows' milk. Aqua ardipnte is procured m Mexico from the sweet juice of the American sloe. In the East Indies, Arrack is made from fermenting rice or pabn sago. Fer- menting Machaleb cherries are the source of the German Kirschwasser. Maraschino is made from mamiska cherries in Dalmatia. From rice wme a Chmeg ^^.^.^^ Whow-choo, is distiUed. In short, there hardly exists a race of men who have not acquired the art of distilling^ alcohol ^,7^/ T r^f*-^'' the fermentation of sugar In Bntam, we are more particularly ac- quamted with brandy, gin, whisky, and rum. Brandy is produced by the distillation of wine alone, and not ±rom any other fermented liquor; any spu:its ma-'e from other liquors than whie are mxproperv termed brandy. Brandy^s