( 604 ) POR POR Pork Cutlets, Broiled.—Prepare the cutlets iiccordiuf^- to the directions given above; season with i)Opi)L'r and salt, In-ush thoiri over with oil, and lilaeo thorn on a hot gridiron over a clear hro. Turn them two or three times that thoy may be ociuully browned on both sides, and let thorn bo thoroughly cooked. Put thorn on a hot dish, and send tomato or piquant sauco, sauce liobort, or any other ap- propriate sauce, to table with them. Pork cutlets may be served with the same accompani- ment as pork chops (see Pork Chops). The jippoarance of the cutlets will be improved if they are lightly brushed over with a little glaze, but they must be quickly served after they are taken from the fire or they will be spoiled. Time to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two persons. Pork Cutlets, Pried.—Pork cutlets may be fried according to the directions given for pork chops, or as follows :—Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and stir into it a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of chopped sage, and a tea-spoonful of finely- minced shallot. Move these ingredients about for a minute, then add a little salt and pepper and two eggs well beaten. Dip the cutlets first into this mixture, then into finely-grated bread- crumbs, and let them stand ten minutes. Melt a little butter in the frying-pan, fry the cutlets in it, and when done enough, serve with good brown sauce in a tureen. Time to fry, fifteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Pork Cutlets, Marinaded.—Mince an onion finely, and lay it at the bottom of a shallow dish, with a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of pepper. Lay the cutlets upon tins mixtiire, and cover with oil. Let them lie for two hours, turn them, and leave them two hours longer. Fry them in the marinade tUl they are thoroughly cooked; drain them, place them round a hot dish, pour a little tomato sauce into the centre, and serve. Time to fry, fifteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Pork Cutlets, Savoury.—Savotuypork cutlets may be dressed according to the direc- tions given for savoury pork chops [see Pork Chops, Savoury), or as follows :—Take a moderate-sized saucepan with a closely- fitting lid. Melt in this two ounces of fresh butter, and throw into it a table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and sage, a pinch of thyme, three bay-leaves, a blade of mace, and eight allspice. Stir over the fire for a minute, then add a glass of light wine and a pound of properly trimmed pork cutlets. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents steam for a quarter of an hour. Take the cutlets up, drain them, and dip them first into beaten egg, and afterwards into finely-grated bread- crumbs. Fry quickly, and serve them round a hot dish, with the sauce poured into the centre. The sauce may be prepared as follows:—Strain the sjiuce from the cutlets. Skim it, stir a table-spoonful of lemon-juice into it, thicken with a very small portion of fiour, and just before sending it to table mix a tea-spoouful of niustavd witli it. Time, toii minutes to fry tlio cutlets. Probable cost, cutlets, is. jjer pound. Sufficient for two or three persona. Pork Cutlets with Sauce Robert.— Take two pounds of properly trimmed ]jork cutlets, and lay them in a deep dish. Put a gkss of vinegar, a glass of sherry, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, three shallots, a blade of mace, eight peppercorns, and two allspice into a saucepan. Let these ingre- dients boil up, then turn the mixture into a basin, and when quite cold, pour it over the (iutlets. Let them lie in the mixtuie twelve hours, turning them two or three times. When wanted, drain and dry them, egg and bread- crumb them, and broU over a clear fire until they are thoroughly cooked. Serve in a hot dish, and pour half a pint of sauce liobert over them. Pork, Cutting up and Salting (French method).—^As soon as the pig is killed, do not scald but singe it. To do this, put the carcase on a truss of straw, and set fire to it windwai-d. Then after turning the pig, bum ofE any bristles that are left with torches of burning straw. Broom the pig, wash it well with cold water, and scrape it thoroughly -«dth a knife. Open it, and reserve the blood for a black pudding. Throw the fiy into cold water, and cleanse the chitterlings. These must be used speedily. Let the pig hang for some hours in an airy situation till it is cool and stiff. Halve it, and cut 'it up into convenient-sized pieces, of from three to five pounds' weight. The feet and tail, the tongue, nostril, brains, and ears can be left unsalted, and cooked separately, and, if liked, a few roasting pieces also. To salt the pork, supposing it to weigh 200 pounds, make a powder by mixing thirty pounds of common salt, quarter of a pound of powdered mixed spice, and two ounces of ground pepper. Rub each piece of pork with the powder. Put a layer of powder at the bottom of the salting- tub, pack in closely a layer of pork, and sprinkle the powdered salt and spice over it. Place on this another layer of pork, and repeat until the pan is full. Put salt thickly on the top, pour a pint of cold water over the whole to assist the salt in dissohdng, and put on tlio wooden cover. The pork may remain in thi?. pickle from four to six months, and should then be placed in a single layer on a wicker hurdle, and left to djj in a cool airv place until it is wanted. Bacon thus pickled is the only meat ever tasted by large numbers of Frenchmen. Pork, Dangers of Eating {see Pork; Trichinatous). Pork, Fresh, Stewed.—Cut a spare-rib or any fresh lean pork into chops. Fry these in a little fat until thoy are lightly browned. Take them up, drain them, put them into a clean stewpan, and pour over them as much boiling water as will cover them. Let the liquid boil once more, then diaw it to the