( 899 ) SOU SOB Sorrel Soup.—Take two or three handfuls of fresh gi'een sorrel; pick tlio loaves from the stems, wash them in several watoi's, di-ain them, aiul put them into a stewpan with a slice of frosli butter. No liquor is requii'ed. Steam the leaves gently till quite tender. Dredge a little flour upon them, beat f-at all the lumps, and add about a quart of either white stock or water. Simmer for ten minutes. Whisk two eggs lightly. Just before the soup is wanted put a little of the soup to the eggs, add the rest gradually, make hot again, but do not boil after the eggs are added. This is an acid soup. Sorrel Soup (a German recipe).—Take a good quantity of sorrel-leaves, pick them from the stems, and wash them well. Then put them into a stewpan to steam with a piece of butter— no water is needed. Stir constantly, and dredge in a table-spoonful or two of flour, unless the soup is to be clear. Add enough soup, already seasoned and flavoured. Serve with dice of toasted bread or sippets. Sorrel, Stewed (a la Fran9ai8e).—Take a peck of sorrel, fresh and green; pick off the stems, and wash the leaves in several waters; put them into a stewpan with a pint of boiling water in which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved, and let them boil quickly till tender. Some cooks put a shred lettuce and a little chervil into the saucepan with them. Drain the water from the sorrel, and rub it through a wire sieve. Put it into a saucepan, and mix with it two ounces of butter, a dessert- spoonful of flour, and a little pepper. Stir it over the fire till it boils. Cool, then add three spoonfuls of cream, or the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and serve with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Time to boil the sorrel, a quarter of an hour. Sufiicient for six or seven persons. Sorrel, Stewed (for fricandeaux, roasts, &c.).—Wash half a peck of picked sorrel-leaves in several waters, drain them on a sieve, and put them into an unglazed earthen jar in a veiy slow oven, and let them stew gently until quite tender. Mix an ounce of butter or a little salad-oil with them, add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and beat the leaves till smooth. Serve immediately. Souari, Swarrow, or Butter Nuts are l)rought from Dcmorara, and are highly esteemed on account of their pleasant flavour. They are obtained from a tree belonging to the walnut family called Caryocar butyrosum. Soubise Cutlets {see Mutton Cutlets a la Sou])i.se). Soubise Sauce (for roast mutton, boiled veal, and cutlets).—Peel four large onions, and cut them into thin slices ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them, together with a small quantity of grated nutmeg; put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and steam gently till they are soft. They must not bo allowed to acquire any colour. Dredge a table-spoonful of (lour upon them, put a freshly, boiled mealy potato with them, and add half a pint of milk, or a quarter of a pint of white ytock, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Stir the sauce over the fire till it is quite smooth, rub itthi-ough a coarse sieve, pressing the onion strongly, that none may remain behind; and, before serving, heat again without allov.'ing it to boil. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, 8d., if made with milk. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Soubise Sauce (another way).—Peel a pound of onions, cut them into small dice, throw them into boiling water, and boil them quickly for five minutes. Drain them, and steam them sgftly with a sHce of butter tiU they are soft. I Stir into them as much white sauce as wiU make them of the consistency of thick cream. Press the sauce through a sieve, heat it again without allowing it to boil, and serve. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost, 8.d. to Is. if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Soubise Sauce (another way).—Take a dozen white onions. After having peeled and washed them, cut them into halves, take off the tops and bottoms, mince them as fine as possible, and blanch them to make them taste sweeter and take off the green colour. Then let them melt on a small stove with a little butter. When they are thoroughly done, and no kind of moisture is left, mix four spoonfuls of be- chamel. Season them well, rub the puree through a tamis, and keep the sauce hot, but without boiling. You must also put a small lump of sugar with the sauce if necessaiy. When you have the oven hot, put in the onions hermetically closed in a small stewpan, and let I them simmer for one hour with a small bit of ham. This method gives a better flavour. Soubise Sauce, Brown.—Peel and wash twelve onions clean, then mince them, and fry them in a stewpan with a little butter till very brown. Moisten with some Spanish sauce, if you have any ; if not, sprinkle with two spoon- fuls of flour mixed ^vith some veal or beef gravy. Skim the fat, season well with salt and pepper, and then strain the pm-ee through an old tamis, for these sort of purees would destroy new ones, and wiU always leave the taste of onions. Soubise Sauce, Mutton Cutlets with..—Take a neck of mutton, and cut oft' the chops one by one without flattening them ; cut off some of the flat bone at the extremity of the chops. Put them into a stewpan with all the parings of the onions to make the soubise. Season the whole well with carrots, a bimch of parsley, green onions, salt, and a very small quantity of spice, &c.; throw in four or five spoonfuls of good broth to braize them. WhpM done, drain them, and let them cool. Strain the liquor through a silk sieve. Then reduce it co a gla/e. _ Next pare the chops nicely, and put them with the glaze. This being "completed, dish them miroton way, and pour the soubise or onion sauce into the middle. Some persons take two nocks of mutton, out two bones to each chop, lard them with bacon, and braize them as above; but mutton, being in general fat, is better without being lardi^d. With r&jjard to the two bones, you must tukt