( 765 ) ROE ROE be garnished with stowed prunes and fried pota- toes, and a sauce, prepared as follows, should aecomimny it, a little poured over the haunch, and the rest in a tureen:—Cut an ounce of lean ham into dice, and fry it in a little butter with a small carrot, a stick of celery, and an onion, all cut small, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a quarter of a blade of mace, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Stir these ingre- dients over the fire until they are lightly browned, then add two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and one of ketchup. Let the liquor boil, and put with it half a pint of bro\vn sauce, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract, a wine-glass of sherry, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Let the sauce boil carefully, skim off the fat, &c., strain it, and it will be ready for use. Time to roast the haunch, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 4d. to 2s. a pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Roebuck, Jugged.— Cut a breast of roebuck into small chops, fry these with three or four slices of good bacon in butter till they are lightly browned, then pour oflE the liquor, and mix flour with it to make a roux {see Roux). Moisten this with as much good stock as will cover the pieces of roebuck, and add four or five onions with half a dozen cloves stuck in them, three or four inches of thin lemon-rind, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt; a few mushrooms may be added 3 liked. Put all into a stewpan, cover closely that no steam may escape, and when the liquor has boiled, draw the pan to the side, and let its con- tents simmer gently until done enough. Put the meat on a dish, arrange the vegetables round it, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the meat, about two hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. to 28. per pound. Roebuck, Minced.—Take the remains of a dressed leg of roebuck. Remove all fat, skin, and gristle; mince the meat finely, and mix it with the remains of the poivrade sauce {see Roebuck, Haunch of, Marinaded). If there is none left, make a little; a pint wiU be sufficient for a pound of mince. Heat aU gently together without allowing the sauce to boil, ands serve garnished with poached eggs. Time to warm the mince, a few minutes. Roebuck, Roast.—Take a leg of roebuck, saw away the shank bones, and pare off about four inches of the top skin. Lard the bare place closely and evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Wrap the leg in buttered paper, leaving ])oth ends open, put it down before a clear fire, and roast it till done enough. About ten minutes before it is taken down, remove the paper and sprinkle a little salt over the joint. Serve with a paper frill round the knuckle, and send poivrade sauce to table in a tureen. The directions for making this sauce are given with Roebuck, Haunch of, Marinaded. Time to roast a leg weighing five pounds, fifty minutes. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Roes, Herring, in Cases (Ude's way). —Have a paper caso, either round or square its size must be suited to the dish you are going to use—spread some butter over the bottom. Broil eight verj' fresh soft-roed herrings, and when well done take out the roes, and put them, without breaking, into the case. Sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, rasped bread, and finely-chopped parsley; put a few small bits of butter over them in different places, and bake them in a hot oven. \Vlien they are done, put a little maitre d'hotel sauce into the case, with the juice of a lemon. Send up quite hot, and very firm. This dish can never be properly prepared if you wash the herrings : scale them very well, and wipe them first with a damp cloth, and afterwards with a dry one, then broil them sharply, so as to keep the soft roe very fii-m. The case should be made of strong foolscap paper. Roes, Mackerel, in Cases.—Take six very fresh soft-roed mackerel. Broil them till well done, then take the roes from them, and put them into small cases with parsley chopped fine, a little rasped crust of bread, salt, pepper, and a little butter; then put them into the oven; when they are very hot, send them to table with a little white sharp sauce, and the juice of a lemon. This will only make a small dish: when you want to make it larger, put more soft roes, and use the mackerel for fillets as a fish-dish. Roes, Mackerel, Timballe of (a la Sefton).—Take the soft roes of four large mackerel. Do not wash the fish, for the roes would then turn black and soft. Put the roes in melted butter, without any salt; cover them with the butter, and either bake them in the oven, or let them sweat on a stove. Take care not to break them. When they are done, lay them on a sheet of white paper to drain; dust a little salt over them, and cut them into small dice as neatly as possible. Put these into petits pates, which keep hot, and make the following sauce, which is to be put afterwards into the pates:—Take two spoonfuls of bechamel, add a small bit of butter with pepper and salt. Refine this sauce with some thick cream. Keep it hot, fiU the pates in which the soft roes are, but mind that it is liquid enough to penetrate the roes. Above all, send up quite hot. This entree is much esteemed by the daintiest epicures. If you have a grand dinner, four mackerel will make two dishes without any connoisseur having occasion to find fault, as they will both diflEer in flavour as well as in form and appearance. Observe, that you give the soft roes for pates, and the fillets for a dish of fiUets of mackerel. Roes of Fish for Garnishing.—Take the roes of fresh salmon, cod, or other large fish, wash them well to clear them from fibre, and set them on a tin plate in a cool oven until quite dry. Beat them with a fork to separate the seeds, put these into a bottle, and store in a cool dry place. They will keep good for sonae time. _ A spoonful sprinkled lightly over white fish wiU improve its appearance. Roes, Salted (a substitute for Caviare).— The roes for this purpose should be taken from a fish about to spawn. Wash the roes first in milk and water, and afterwards in cold water, and clear them perfectly from fibre. Drain them thoroughly, and sprinkle a quarter of a