( 1114 ) WHI well drained. Keep moving the stowpan, ■without using a spoon, for foar of breaking the beans. Then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve quite hot. White Kidney Beans, Pur^e of.— The beans, which must bo boiled beforehand, ai"e to be mixed with the following preparation: Chop some onions, fry them lightly in a little butter, put a little flour to fry in the batter, and when done moisten with a spoonful or two of bi'oth. Let the onions be thoroughly done. Next let the beans heat in the sauce till quite hot, season well, without pepper, and strain through a tamis. Eeduce the puree over a brisk fire, skim off the white scum, and before serving refine the puree with a bit of very fresh butter and two spoonfuls of thick cream. This dish is to be garnished with fried crusts of bread aU round. The same method is used to make the soup a la puree d'haricot, only put some strong consomme in it, and keep the puree quite clear. Serve with the soup some *rumbs of bread cut in small squares and fried browm in butter. White Kidney Beans, Pur6e of (another way).—New white beans should be used for making a puree. If fresh, put them into boUing water; if dry, into cold water, adding a little butter in either case, to make the skin more mellow. When the beans are done enough, add a handful of salt to season them. Fry in a little butter a few shces of onions. When they are melted, sprinkle them with half a spoonful of flour; moisten with consomme, and season with a little pepper and salt; skim off the grease. When the flour is done, mix it well with the beans, let them boU a quarter of an hour, and squeeze them well before rubbing them through a tamis. Let the puree be rather limpid, as it is liable to thicken when on the fire. A short time before serving mix a small piece of butter with the puree. White Pot, Devonshire {see Devonshire White Pot). White Puddings.—^WHte puddings are frequently made with the white part (other- wise the frill or fraise) of a calf's pluck boiled and minced, and mixed with an equal weight of boiled liacon, soaked bread-crumbs, and sausage meat, seasoned with salt and pepper, flavoured with boiled onion and spices, and bound together with yolk of egg. The pud- dings thus made will not keep. They should be put into well-cleaned sausage-skins, and baked in the oven or broiled over a clear fire, and served very hot. Before being used the calf's frill should be thrown into cold water, and kept there till wanted. It should be boiled in salt and water, and cooled before being minced for the pudding. White Puddings (another way).—Take the fry of a small freshly-killod pig, with half a pound of fresh pork and half a poimd of the inner fat of the pig. Mince all finely together, and mix thoroughly with a handful of fresh parsley leaves, two sage leaves, a sprig of chervil, and a moderate-sized onion, all chopped small. Take three ounces of the stale crumb of bread, grate finely, and boil it to a pulp in half a pmt of milk; beat it with a wooden spoon, and add a heaped tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of i^owdered sugar, a teal spoonful of white Jjepjjer, half a teu-s|x>ouf ul of dry mustard, as umcli grated nutmeg as will he on a thieepenny-]jiece, a pincli of powdered mace, a pinch of powdered coriander-seed, and a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. When the seasoning ingredients are tliorouglily mixed with the boiled bread, stir in the minced meat, and bind the mixture together with the w^ijl- beaten yolks of two and the white of one egg. A small piece of garlic may be added to the other ingredients, if the flavour is not objected to; and work in one ounce and a half of dried flour. Three-parts fill some well-prepared pigs' skins with the mixture, and tie them firmly in links about six inches in length. Be careful to leave room for the mixture to swell. Put them into warm water, let them boU, then simmer gently for two hours. As they swell prick them with a needle to let out the aii\ Hang them in a cool situation. When wanted, cover with but- tered paper and broil the puddings over a clear fire; remove the paper, and serve very hot. Time to broil the puddings, about twenty-five minutes. White Puddings (another way).—Cut half a pound of the flesh of a cold roast fowl into shces, then mince it finely, and mix with it four ounces of the inner fat of the pig also minced. . Boil a quarter of a pint of bread- crumbs in half a pint of nulk tUl it forms a thick paste; skin and chop small one large onion, dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, put in the onion and the. minced meat, cover the stewpan closely, and let its contents stew gently tUl the onions are tender; add the soaked bread-crumbs, season the mixture with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind together with the yolks of three eggs; stir the mixture over the fire briskly for five minutes. Clean some skins thoroughly, three-parts fill them with the mixture, tie them firmly in links about six inches in length, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of water, hot but not boiling; bring the water to the boil, then simmer the puddings for ten minutes. Drain theiii, and hang them in a cool situation till wanted. Before using them, cover with but- tered paper, and broil over a clear fire; serve very hot on a dish covered with a nap- kin. If more convenient, the flesh of roast pheasants, partridges, hares, or veal, may be used instead of roast fowl. Time, about twenty-five minutes to broil the puddings. White Puddings (another way).—Take eight oimces of beef suet, eight ounces of oat- meal, one ounce and a half of onion shred very small, an eighth of an ounce of salt, an eighth of an ounce of ground black pepper: mix these ingredients thoroughly without water, and tie hard up in a cloth. Boil for an hour and a half slowly in an open goblet, keeping it always under water, which must be boiUng when the pudding is put in. White Puddings, Sweet.—Shred finely haK a pound of freali pork kidney fat,, put it into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt, four ounces of flour, four ounces of powdered