TON ( 985 ) TON uiiiiightiy. Garnish the dish with parsley. If the tougue is to be eaten hot, take off the skin, wrap it in a sheet of oiled paper, and put in a little boiling liquor for a quarter of an hour before dishing it, to make it quite hot. Garnish the dish with brussels sprouts, cauliflowers, di-essed spinach, or any other vegetables, and send tomato or piquant sauce to table with it. Time : a large smoked tongue, four hours and a half; a small smoked tongue, two and a half to three hours; a large unsmoked tongue, three hours and a half; a small one, two to two houi-s and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Tongue, Carving of.—Begin to take slices, not too thin, from the middle of the tongue, and afterwards cut slices from each side, being careful not to cut quite through the tongue. The extreme tip is usually left and used for grating. A little of the fat should be put upon each plate. "When the tongue is rolled, it should be cut in very thin slices horizontally. Tongue, Dresden (A German recipe).— Procure a fresh bullock's tongue, wash well, and wipe it quite dry. Put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, which must be deep enough to close well. Dredge in some flour; place the tongue in the stewpan; let it brown nicely on one side, then turn it. AVhen nicely browned all over, season it well; add a pint and a half of water. Cover close, and let it simmer—not boil—three hours and a half. Add more water if the gravy wastes much. There must be enough left to serve with the tongue, which is eaten hot with potatoes, but it is equally good cold. Garnish and serve with slices of lemon. Tongue, Fresh Ox.—Put the tongue on the fire in cold water, simmer slowly till tender, and then remove the skin. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan ; dust in a table- spoonful of flour and as much grated bread as the butter will take up, and brown. Mince small a few rashers of bacon, do the same with an onion, and add them to the sauce with the juice of a lemon and a slice of its peel. Thin the sauce with a little broth or water in which the tongue was boiled. Lay in the tongue, sprinkle with salt, cover, and let it simmer slowly for an hour. Tongue, Hungarian. — Put a fresh tongue on the fire with just cold water enough to cover it, and with it a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, some black pepper, salt, and a little garlic. Let it simmer gently for about two hours till quite tender. Skin and trim it. Either serve it whole or cut in slices, and arranged in a ring with the following thick sauce in the centre: —Strain the liquor which the tongue was cooked in (this should be reduced in the simmering to a mere gravy); brown a large table-spoonful of flour in a good-sized piece of butter; braize two or three cloves of garlic, and let them steam a little while in the browning; then add the strained gravy by degrees, stirring it quite smooth. Add a little lemon-juice or vinegar', and, whether it be served whole or sliced, the sauce must be dished with the tongue. If garlic is objected to, make a thick sauce o£ grated horseradish, a carrot bruised fine, sorrel, capers, and a little wine. Garnish with lemon slices and parsley. Tongue, Miroton of, with Turnips. —Stew the tongue as in the recipe Tongue, Beef, with Sauce Hachee; _ then let it cool, cut it into scallops, dish it miroton fashion, and place the dish covered at the mouth of the oven. A short time before sending it to table, glaze it with a light glaze, and pour into the centre some brown haricot sauce. Tongue, Pickled or Salted.—Tongues are generally bought ready pickled, but as some cooks like to prepare their own tongues, two or three methods are here given. Of these the simplest is the following:—Trim the root, and leave a little of the fat; place the tongue in a deep dish, cover with salt, and let it lie until the next day. Pour off the slime that will have come from it, and rub it weU with a mixture made of half a pound of common salt, half a pound of moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Turn and rub it every day for a week, renew the pickle, and turn and rub it every day for another week, when it will be ready for use. Or, trim the root, put the tongue in a deep pan, cover with salt, and let it lie for twenty-four hours. Drain off the slime, and rub it with a mixture made as follows :—Take three pounds of common salt, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, three ouncesi of saltpetre, with a quarter of an ounce each of cloves, mace, and pepper, two table-spoon- fuls of mixed herbs finely chopped—thj-me, marjoram, bay-leaves, winter savory, and basiL Pound these ingredients in a mortar, and mix them thoroughly. Rub this mixture into the tongue, and turn and rub it every day for twelve days or a fortnight, when it will be ready for use. Or let the tongue lie in salt for twenty-four hours as above. Rub into it a mixture made with half a pound of common salt, half an ounce of bay-salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar. Turn and rub it every day for three weeks for a small tongue, four weeks for a large one. Or make a pickle by boiling a pound of salt, a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and three ounces of sal prunella m a gallon of water for twenty minutes. Let the brine get cold, then put the tongue mto it, and let it lie for a fortnight, and lay a smaU board on the top to keep the meat under the liquor. This pickle may bo used several times if it is boiled occasionally. Tongues are always best when used straight out of the pickle. When this is not convenient, however, they should be taken out, rubbed dry, hung up to keep, and smoked, if liked. Tongue, Potted.-Tako the remains of a cold boi ed tongue. Romove all the hard 1 ""-f * ^'"^^l pieces, and after- wards pound It to a smooth paste; season w th cayenne, and beat with it one-fourth of Its weight in clanficd butter. Press it into