SAL ( 791 ) 8AK after drain the remaining fidh on a baking- sheet, and observe that no fragment of the seasoning remains about the fish. Lay them gradually in the tureen, which cover and place in the hot closet; strain the essence of the fish through a sieve; add to it some brovm con- somme prepared as usual; clarify it, and pour it into the tureen while boiling, mingling with it roots dressed in some consomme; the same as in the recipe Sante, Potage de, but without the lettuces and sorrel. Saki.—This is a sort of beer made in Japan, where it is the common alcoholic drink. It is obtained from rice. The liquor is clear and has a peculiar taste, which is seldom agreeable to the European palate. The Japanese usually heat it before drinking, and pour it into flat cups or saucers of lacquered wood. The effect produced by said is a speedy but transient in- toxication. Salad.—A salad well prepared is a charm- ing compound, and, when taken with plenty of oil, very wholesome, attractive, and agreeable; badly prepared it is an abomination. A Spanish proverb says, that four persons are needed to make a good salad—a spendthrift to throw in the oil, a miser to drop in the vinegar, a lawyer to administer the seasoning, and a madman to stir the whole together. Lettuce is generally supposed to form the foundation of a salad, but there are few fresh vegetables that may not be used: and on the Continent every known vegetable is, when plainly dressed, used cold for salads; and cold meat, fish, and game are served in the same way. Amongst the vegetables appropriate for salads may be named asparagus, artichokes, beetroot boiled, basil, celery, chives, cucumbers, chervil, cauli- flowers, dandelion-leaves, endive, French beans, garlic, lettuces of all kinds, lentils, mustard and cress, mint, onions, parsley, potatoes, radishes, shallots, sorrel, tarragon, tomatoes, Windsor beans, and watercress. Though a variety in salads is easily secured, great care is necessary in the preparation of the dish, and three or four rules must be closely observed if the salad is to be a success. First, the vegetables must be young, freshly-cut, in season, and in good con- dition. If possible, they should be gathered early in the morning, or late in the evening, and should be kept in a cool, damp place. Secondly, the vegetables should not be allowed to lie long in water. If withered, they may bo put in for a short time to render them a little crisp, but if fresh, they should be simply rinsed through the water and dried immediately. Thirdly—and this point requires most careful attention—the vegetables must be rendered jt)orfectly dry after washing. The best way of doing this is to drain the salad and shake it first in a colander, or salad-basket, and after- wards in a clean napkin held by the comers and shaken lightly till the salad is dry. Fourthly, cut the salad with a silver knife, or tear it in shreds; do not prepare it until a short time before it is wanted, and on no account mix the salad-dressing with it until the last moment. It is a very usual and excellent plan to pom- tho liquid into the bottom of the bowl, lay the siuvii vegetables upon it, and mix the salsid at table. A wooden fork and spoon are the best for this purpose. Salads may bo garnished in various ways, and afford ample opportunity for the display of artistic taste. Boiled beetroot cut into slices stamped into fancy shapes or cut into treUis-work, sliced cucumbers, olives, hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters or rings, radishes, nasturtium-leaves and flowers, &c., may all be used. When these are arranged tastefully the salad presents a very attractive appearance. Of course the garniture must not entirely hide the salad. Salad Beef.—Cut a pound of cold beef into thin slices; put these into a salad-bowl with half a pound of fresh lettuce or endive dried and shred small, and a quarter of a pound of cold boiled haricot beans. Add, if Uked, a pickled gherkin chopped small, or a spoonful of sliced tarragon-leaves, or chervU, or onion. Season the salad with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoon- ful of mixed mustard, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and five spoonfuls of good salad oil. Mix all lightly together with a fork, and serve. The salad ought not to be mixed until it is about to be served. Time, a quarter of an hour U prepare the salad. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Salad, Boiled.—Boil separately equal quantities of French beans and celery or cauli- flower. Drain them, and cut them up small. Put them into a salad-bowl, and sprinkle over them a layer of shred lettuce, endive, or chervil. Pour over the whole a little salad dressing, mix lightly, and serve. Boiled onion and slices of cold meat, fish, or poultry may be added, or not. Salad, Boiled (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—• This is best compounded of boiled or baked onions (if Portugal the better), some baked beet- root, cauliflower, or broccoli, and boiled celery and French beans, or any of these articles, with the common salad dressing; added to this, to give it an enticing appearance, and to give some of the crispness and freshness so pleasant in salad, a small quantity of raw endive, or lettuce and chervil, or bumet, strewed on the top; this is by far more wholesome than the raw salad, and is much eaten when put on the table. The above sauce is equally good with cold meat, cold fish, or for cucumbers, celery, radishes, &c. (and all the other vegetables that are sent to table undressed); to the above a little minced onion is generally an acceptable addition. "Salad," adds Dr. Kitchiner, "is a very compound dish with our neighbours the French, who always add to the mixture above black pepper and sometimes savoury spice. The Italians mince the white meat of chickens into this sauce; the Dutch, cold boiled tur- bot, or lobster, or add to it a spoonful of grated Parmesan or old Cheshire cheese, or mince very fine a little tarragon, or chervil, bumet, or young onion, celery, or pickled gherkins, &c. Joan Cromwell's grand salad was composed of equal parts of almonds, raisins, capers, pickled cucumbers, shrimps, and boiled turnips. "This mixture is sometimes made with cicam,