STR ( 932 ) STB division, and the strawberry ice at the other. Draw out the soparatinf^ cardboard, close the mould, and Biu'round it with ice till it is fj'ozftn. When wanted, plunge it into hot wator for an instant, turn it upside down on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Sufficient for a quart of ice. Strawberry Ice Cream.— Pick the hulls olf a pound of fresh, ripe, tinely-llavourod strawberries, sprinkle haH a pound of powdered sugar over them, bruise them well with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the juice thus obtained a pint of thick cream, the juice of a lemon, and a few drops of cochineal. Freeze and mould in the usual way. Probable cost, strawberries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. Strawberry Ice made with Jam — Although strawberry ices may be made with jam for convenience, they will not equal in flavour those made with fresh fruit. Take half a pound of strawberry jam; mix with it a pint of cream, or milk and cream mixed, and the strained juice of a lemon. Rub the mixture through a fine sieve into the freezing-pot, and freeze in the usual way. Put it into a mould, set it again in ice, and let it remain until wanted. Strawberry Isinglass Jelly.—Pick a quart of ripe red strawberries, put them into a bowl, and pour upon them a clear s3Tnip made by boUing three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar with a pint of water for a quarter of an hour. Cover the dish, and leave the fruit to soak all night. Put two ounces and a haK of isinglass into a saucepan with a pint of water which has been beaten up with half the white of an egg. Stir the mixture, and heat it gently tni the isinglass is dissolved, carefullj^ re- moving the scum tUl it ceases to rise. Strain the liquor through three or four folds of muslin, and when it is lukewarm, mix with it the syrup which has been drained from the strawberries, half a tea-cupful of red-cuiTant juice, and the strained juice of a fresh lemon. JVIix the ingredients thoroughly, put the jelly into a damp mould, and set it in a cool place or upon ice till it is set. If preferred, gela- tine may be substituted for the isinglass, and the. jelly will then be less expensive. The appearance of the mould will be improved if two or three spoonfuls of jelly are first poured into the mould, allowed to stiffen, then orna- mented with large ripe strawberries, and the mould filled with jelly and strawberries alter- nately. Time, eight or nine hours to set the jelly. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for two moderate-sized moulds. Strawberry Jam. — Gather the fruit after two or three days of diy weather, when it is fully ripe, but not over-ripe, or it will be flavour- less, and may be tainted with bitterness and the elements of decay. Pick the bei-ries, and discard all that are at all unsound. "Weigh the strawberries, and take three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar for each pound of fruit. Put a layer of berries into the preserving-pan, then a layer of sugar, and repeat until the pan is a Uttlo less than three-parts full. Set it at the Bide of, but not upon, the fire, and keep stirring gently to prevent burning ; but be careful not to crush the fruit. Very carefully remove tlio scum as it rises, and let the jam boil gently until a little put upon a jdate will set, or be stili'. Take the pan from the fire, let its contents cool for a few minutes, then pour the jam into jars. Cover in the usual way. The flavour of strawberry jam depends a great deal upon the season. When the summer is cold, wet, and sunless, it is difficult to make jam with the real perfume of the fruit, although it may be made to keej) by long boiUng and an extra allowance of sugar. Time to boil, three quar- ters of an hour or more. Probable cost, straw- berries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. The fruit can generally be bought cheaper by the peck. Strawberry Jam (another way].—Pick the strawberries, carefully look out and discard all that are unsound, and weigh the fruit. lioil it, stirring occasionally to keep it from burn- ing, for half an hour, then mix in thoroughly, off the Jire, half a pound of loaf sugar broken into small pieces for each original pound of fruit. Boil the jam quickly half an hour longer, or till it will set, and put it into jars in the usual way. Time to boil the fruit, half an hour with the sugar, and half an hour without the sugar. Strawberry Jam, Superior.—Straw- berry jam, although very deUcious, is, if any- thing, too luscious. If made according to the following recipe, this fault will be corrected. Take the juice of three pints of ripe white or even red currants. Put this into a preserving-pan, and throw in four pounds of freshly-gathered ripe strawbeiTies which have been picked and carefully looked over. Let the fruit boil, remo-\-e the scum, and add four pounds of refined loaf sugar. Bod the jam quicklj- until done enough. Put it into jars, and cover these in the usual manner. Time to boil the jam, from thirty to forty minutes. Strawberry Jelly. — Take quite fresh fruit which has been gathered in drj- weather. Pick the stalks from it, put it into a preserving- pan (an enamelled one is the best for the pur- pose), and place it by the side of a clear fire that the juice may be drawn gently from it. As soon as this flows freely, simmer it until the berries appear to collapse, but on no account allow the juice to remain on the fire till it thickens. Pour the fruit upon a well-scalded but dry sieve, and let the juice drain thoroughly from it; strain it through three or four thick- nesses of muslin, and weigh it. Boil quickly for twenty minutes, and stir frequently. Take the pan from the fire, and then add very gradually fourteen ounces of coarsely-pounded loaf sugar for each pound of fi-uit. Let one portion be dissolved before another is added, men all the sugar is dissolved, put the pan again on the fire, and boil the jelly untU a little put upon a plate will stiffen. Pour the jelly into small jars, cover these in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time to boil the jelly with the sugar, a quarter of an hour or more, according to the quality of the fruit. Probable cost, strawberries, from 4d. to 8d. per pound; less if bought by the peck.