SAO ( 786 ) SAP cream or milk. Sweeten the mixture well, and flavour with grated nutmeg. Put it into a heated dish, cover it over, and let it stand by the tire two or three hours. Lady Mallet's recipe:—Break eighteen new-laid eggs into a bowl, and carefully remove the specks. Beat the eggs till they are lightly frothed. Boil a quart, of cold and a pint of boiled sack (or sherry) with three-quarters of a pound of sugar and a little grated nutmeg. Skim the liquor carefully, and when it has boiled a few minutes, stir it oif the fire for a minute, then add it gradually to the beaten eggs. Stir the pre- paration over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, pour it quickly from one vessel to another tUl quite smooth, and then serve. Master Rudstone's recipe :—Take a quart of sherry or brandy, and boU it with a quarter of a pint of ale and three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Skim it well, then mix it gradually with the well-beaten yolks of two and the whites of sixteen eggs. Let the mixture cool till the eggs thicken, then stir in three pints of milk or cream which have been boiled down to a quart. Pour it quickly from one vessel to another till it is quite smooth, and then serve. Sack Whey (for Invalids).—Boil a pint of milk, and as it rises in the pan stir into it three glasses of sherry. Let it boil once more, then di-ain it back, and let it stand till the curd forms. FUter the whey, sweeten, dilute it, or not, with a little water, and serve. Saddle of Mutton. Carving of. — "This joint," says M. Uae, "is by no means an economical one, as no meat from the butcher's shop is so excessively dear, consider- ing the little meat you can cut from it, and the great waste there is in skin, fat, and bone ; and that, above all, it produces no cold meat for future use, and can only be used again in the shape of hash. SA.ODLE OF MCTTON. " The method usually adopted in carving this ioint is contrary to taste and judgment. To have your meat in the grain, pass your knife straight to one side of the chine, as close as possible to the bono; then turn the knife straight from you, and cut the first slice out • then cut slices of lean and fat. By disengaging the slices from the flat bone in this manner, it will have a better appearance, and you will be enabled to assist more guests. "The amateur of tender moat will by turning the saddle upside down, find that the under fillets are most excellent, and worthy to De offered to the first epicure of the day " SafiVon. — SafPron is very largely adul- terated with the petals of other plants, espe- cially with those of the marigold. Salfron is now chiefly imported from the South of Europe, especially Spain. It was formerly much cultivated in this country in the vicinity of Safc-on Walden, in Cambridgeshire. The English saffron is superior to that brought from Spain. Saffron used to be so extensively used in Cornwall that that county consumed more than all the rest of England put together. In the West of England it is still largely used to colour cakes. Saffron Cakes.—Take a quartern of fine flour, and a pound and a half of butter, three ounces of caraway-seeds, six eggs well-beaten, a quarter of an ounce of well-beaten cloves and mace, a little pounded cinnamon, one pound of sugar, a little rose-water and saffron, a pint and a half of yeast, and a quart of milk. Mix these ingredients thus : first boil the milk and butter, then skim off the butter, and mix it with the flour and a little of the milk. Stir the yeast into the rest, and strain it. Mix it with the flour; put in the eggs and spice, rose-water, tincture of saffron, sugar, and eggs. Beat it all well up, and bake in a hoop or pan well-but- tered, in a quick oven. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Saffron Cakes or Buns.—Loaves, cakes, or buns mixed with a little saffron-water will be found both wholesome and palatable. The medicinal quality of saffron is stimulant, and its tendency is to help digestion. It is said to kUl or drive out intestinal worms. To make the saffron-water, infuse a small quantity of saffron in a little water. After a few minutes, strain the liquor, and add a spoonful or two to an ordinary cake. Be sure that it rises well. The cake after baking will retain the taste and smell of the saffron, and wiU have a rich ap- pearance. Saffron Cordial Water (Robinson's recipe) :— Best picked saffron Sifted loaf sugar .... Cinnamon and nutmeg, sliced, each Cloves and pimento, bruised . • Sweet almonds, beaten Bitter do. Caraways Pure water . Proof spirit of wine . Put the above ingredients into a stone iar the almonds beaten with a little of the spirit of wine. Secure the cork, and let the ingredients mfuse in the usual manner. Then strain and filter, clear; bottle, cork, and seal. This should be kept a while to let the strong flavour of the saffron go off. ^.Saffron, Preparation of.—The bulbs of the saffron {Crocus sativus) are planted in rows SIX inches apart, and three from bulb to bulli, m a well-pulverised, not poor, nor a very stifi clay, in the month of July. The flowers are collected in September, and the yellow stigmas and part of the style are picked out, and dried on a kiln, between layers of paper, and under i oz. 4 oz. i oz. ■ 1 oz. 1 oz. \ oz. 1 oz. 1 pint. 1 pint.