( 1067 ) TEO- cucumbers, cut them into quarterB, pare them about the size of the scallops; then take the parings and some other pieces, which mince with a little onion to make a puree. Fry the onions and the trimmings of the cucumbers together in a little butter; when the cucumbers ai-e entirely melted, moisten with sauce toiamee, and stew them on the corner of the stove for an houi'; skim off the grease, and rub this sauce through a tamis. Put the other whole cu- cumbers into some sauce tournee, and let them boil till done. Before putting the cucumbers in the sauce, they must be marinaded in a basin with a little salt and a thimbleful of white vinegar; let them remain for half an hour, and then drain them in a clean towel, and put them in the sauce, if you have any; other- wise, put them in a stcwpan with a small bit of butter, a bundle of parsley, and gi-een onions; fry them gently, then singe them with about a spoonful of fine white flour, and moisten with good broth; let that boil for an hour in the comer of the stove, skim all the butter, drain the cucumbers in a hair sieve, and reduce the sauce thick enough to receive the thickening. Mind, when you have no sauce in your larder, you must use the same principle to make white or brown sauce in a moment. Vegetable Consomm^, made with Dried Vegetables.—Put a pint of white haricot beans and a pint of lentils into a stew- pan with an onion, a pinch of salt, a bunch of parsley, and a small sprig of thyme. Pour over these ingxedicnts three quarts of water, then boil and simmer them gently for three hours. Strain the liquor. Fry the vegetables, and proceed as for Vegetable Consomme, made with Fresh Vegetables. Vegetable Consomm^, or Vegetable Gravy Soup, made with Fresh Vege- tables.—Dissolve in a stewpan four ounces of fresh butter. Tlirow into it two large carrots, two onions, two leeks, a head of celery, and a turnip, all cut small, together with a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, and a shallot. Cover the pan closely, put it on the fire, and shake it occasionally till the vegetables are lightly coloureci. Put a pint of freshly-shelled green peas into a separate ste^vpan with three quarts of water. Let them boil, then pour them upon the fried vegetables. Let the liquor boil, skim till it is quite clear, and put into it a crust of toasted bread, a blade of mace, six allspice, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Cover closely, and simmer gently for two hours or more. Skim off the fat, strain it into a bowl, and let it stand in a cool place until clear. ^\Tion wanted, pour it off carefully, not to dis- turb any sediment that may still remain, boil VEGETABLE KNIPE. it, and serve very hot with fi-ied sippets. If it is wished that vegetables should be served in it, cut the red part of a carrot, an onion, a turnip, and about two sticks of celery into thin strips an inch long. For this purpose a vege- table knife, such as shown in the illustration, will be found useful. Put these in a saucepan, cover with cold water, boil for five minutes, and drain them on a sieve. Pour tbfi .clear soup into a stewpan, throw in the roots, and simmer gently till they are tender. Add salt and pepper if required. Dried vegetables {see Vegetables, Dried, for Julienne Soup) may be used instead of fresh ones to throw into the soup, and will save some trouble. Vegetable Curry.—A mixture of vege. tables may be used for curry. The most suit- able are celery, onions, cauliflowers, young cabbages, cucumbers, green peas, French beans, spinach, and sorrel. Mince or slice the vege- tables. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stewpan; roll the vegetables in curry powder, and toss them in the butter till they are half dressed. Pour over them as much cream or gravy mixed smoothly with curry powder or paste as will cover them, and stew till tender. Add a little salt, and serve with rice boiled for curry on a separate dish. A table-spoonful of lemon-juice is generally considered an im- provement to this dish. If liked, a small quantity of mashed potatoes or fried onions and an apple rubbed through a sieve may be added to the curry sauce. Shrimps or prawns may also be added if approved. Time alto- gether, about an hour. VEGETABLE CUTTEE. Vegetable Cutters.—By means of these little instruments vegetables are cut into fanciful shapes, to the great improvement in appearance of those dishes in which vegetablea form an important feature. Vegetable Essences, To Extract.— The flavour of various herbs may be extracted as follows:—Pick the leaves, and put them in a warm place for an hour or two. FiU a largo wide-mouthed bottle with them, and pour upon them wine, brandy, spirits of wine, or vinegar. Let them soak for a fortnight. Strain the liquor, and put it into small bottles for use. Vegetable Food.—The different articles of nourishment derived from the vegetable king- dom may be divided into five orders, \\z. :— (1) The different sorts of farina, or grain—for example, wheat, barley, oats, and rice; (2) the legumes, or pulse, as peas and beans; (3) the different kinds of salads and pot-herbs ; (4) all the different sorts of roots ; and (5) fruits. The foUowing are the chief vegetable aliments and co^t""^ents, and for particulars regarding them and their uses the reader is referred to the articles under their respective headings :— Almond Artichoke j^^^® Asi'ARAGUS Apricot Barreurxes Arrowroot Barley