PLU PLU ( 587 ) it new-nulk-wann. A beaten egg or two may be added or not, and a grated nutmeg, or hail an oimce of powdered aUspice. Put in hall a pound of brown sugar, and knead aU weU to°'ether, adding a little more mUk if necessary. Cover it again, and set it to rise for about an hour, until it is very Ught, then add halt a pound of stoned and chopped raisms, and three quarters of a pound of washed and dried cur- rants. Put the dough into half a dozen well- greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven. In order to ascertain whether or not a cake is suf- ficiently baked, plunge the blade of a kniEe into the middle of it; if it comes out clean the cake is done enough. Time to bake, one hour or more, according to the size of the loaves. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for six smaU or three moderate-sized cakes. Plum Cake, Plain, made with. Baker's Dough.—Those who are not m the habit of making bread at home often find it difficult to do so. This difficulty may be easily overcome if they will procure a little dough from the baker's, and proceed as follows:-—Take two pounds of dough. Put it at once into a basin, cover with a thick cloth, and let it rise. Place it on a floured paste-board, sprinkle over it a tea-spoonful of baking-powder, and add a quarter of a pound of lard or butter broken into small pieces, a quarter of a pound of_ moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of washed and dried currants, a few caraway-seeds, if liked, and a grated nutmeg. Knead thoroughly with as much luke- warm milk as is necessary. Butter some tins; half fill them with the dough, place them on the hearth imtil the dough has risen so that they are three parts full, then bake the cakes in a well- heated oven. Plunge a knife into the middle of each; when it comes out clean they are done enough. Time to bake, one to two hours, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three small loaves. Plum Cake, Rich.—Put a pound and a half of butter into a good-sized bowl, and with the hand beat it to a cream. Mix with it the whites of eight fresh eggs whisked to a froth, and afterwards the yolks well beaten, and add a dessert-spoonful of salt, a povmd of powdered sugar, a pound and a half of flour, two pounds of currants washed, picked, and dried, eight ounces each of candied lemon and citron cut into narrow strips, half an ounce of mixed spices, consisting of nutmeg, cinnamon, and allapice, all pounded to a powder, half a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, the rind of four oranges rubbed upon three or four lumps of sugar and then powdered. Add each ingre- dient separately, and beat it well in before adding another. A glassful of brandy may be stirred in if liked. If this cake is to be light, it should be beaten fully three-quarters of an hour. Lino a tin with double folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Put twelve folds of paper under the cake, and four or five on the top of it, to prevent it burning. Time to bake, three hours if made in one cake, one hour and a half each if made into two. Probable cost, 5a. 6d., without the brandy. Sufficient for one large or two small cakes. Plum Cake, Rich, Icing for.—Kich plum cakes are much improved if they are covered with almonds and sugar icing. They may then be used as twelfth cakes. The almond paste is made as follows:—Blanch and peel half a pound of almonds. Pound them in a moiiar to a smooth paste, and whilst pounding add a few drops of orange-flower water to keep them from oiling. Mix with them one pound of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and add sufficient white of egg to make a soft paste. Bake the cake, and let it get cold. Spread the almond paste smoothly over it, and when it is hard cover with sugar icing about a quarter of an inch thick. To make the sugar icing, take the whites of two or, if necessary, three eggs, and do not beat them. Mix with them two pounds of icing sugar to make a stiffish paste that will not run, and add a few drops of lemon-juice occasionally. Mix, but do not work, the icing, and spread it evenly on the cake with hands which have been dipped in cold water, put it in a cool oven or hot screen mtil it is dry and hard. Ornament it in any way that fancy suggests. liaised and mottoed ornaments may be fastened upon it, or a smaU portion of the icing may be made thicker with a little more sugar, and then be squeezed through the small end of a piece of paper twisted in the form of a sugar-bag, to make a piping. Plum Cheese, made from Plums which have been used for Jelly.— Skin and stone the plums from which the juice has been strained. Weigh them, and boil them until dry. Mix one pound of powdered loaf sugar with every three pounds of fruit, and boil it again imtil the pulp leaves the sides of the pan with the spoon. Press it into shallow moulds, cover it as jam is covered, and store in a cool dry place. Time to boil, one hour and a quarter to boil the fruit by itself, half an hour to boil it with the sugar. Plum Jam.—The directions for making various kinds of plum jam are given under the name of the plum itself. There are so many varieties of this fruit, and these differ so much in quality and sweetness, that hardly any general recipe can be given. Nevertheless, as there are numerous occasions, especially in towns, where fruit is bought without its distinctive name being known, the following instructions are given, as it will answer for most kinds of the fruit. It must be remembered that when the plums are very hard and sour a larger proportion of sugar will be required. Divide the plums, and take out the stones; or, if preferred, merely gash them with a silver knife, and remove the stones as they rise in the pan. Spread the plums out on large dishes, sprinkle over them three pounds of sugar to every four pounds of fruit, and let them remain for twenty-four hours. Put them into a preserving-pan, and bring them gently to a boil, stii-ring them with a wooden spoon to keep them from burning. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, afterwards boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour. If I hked, a few of the stones can be cracked, and the