PUD ( 665 ) PUD Indian, Cheap Inooldsby, Chkist- MAS Irish, Black Italian Italian, Boiled Jam RoLY-yoLY Jejune Jelly Jenny's Jersey Jewish Almond Jubilee Judy's Kentish Suet Kidney Kidney and Liver Lady Abbess's Lamartine's Lamb Larks in Batter Leamington Leicester Lemon, Baked Lemon, Baked, Plain Lemon, Boiled Lemon Bread, Baked Lemon Bread, Boiled Lemon Roly-poly Little Mary's Cup Liver Macaroni Macaroni, Parisian Macaroni, Plain Macaroon Madeira Madonna Malvern Manchester Mandarin Manna Croup Mansfield Marchioness Marlborough Marmalade,Orange Marrow Marrow, Baked or Mary's [Boiled Meal Meal in Skins Merton Almond Middleton Miles Standibh Military Millet Milton Mixed Fruit Molly Clark's Monmouth Montagu Montreal Mother Eve's Muffins Neapolitan Cus- Nectakine [tard Nehselkode Neukchatel Nbw Colleob Newmarket Nonesuch Norwegian Nottingham nouilles Oatmeal, Hasty Orange Orange, Boiled Orange Marmalade Oran GE Marmalade, Baked Orange Marmalade Orleans[and Bread Oxford Palestine PAliADISB Paris Parliament Partridge Paste, Suet, for Peas [Boiled Peas, Superlative Peasant's Peninsula Pigeon Pine Apple Plum (several) Plumbe's Arrow- Polenta [root Polish Pomfret Pompadour Poor Epicure's Poor Knight's Porcupine Pork Portland Portuguese Potato (several) Prince Consort Prince Frederick's Prunes Pudding in Haste Pudding Pies Pudding Sauce Pudding for Inva- Puff [lids Pumpkin Puritan's Quaking Queen Adelaide's Queen Mab's Queen's Quince Rabbit Radical Raisin Ramakin, or Cheese Raspberry Ratafia Recruit's Regent's Rhubarb Rhubarb AND Bread Richmond Rice (several) Roly-poly Romford's Plain Rotterdam [Indian Rump Steak Saffron Sago Salmon Saratoga" Sauce Saucer Sausage Save-all Savoy Saxon SCHODOH Semolina Shropshire Snipe Snowdon Souffle Souse Spanish Spongecake Strawberry and Custard Strawberry Hy- SUET [dROPATHIC Summer Sussex Swiss Swiss Cocoanut Tadcaster Tansy Tapioca (several) Tapioca and Apple Teal Tinned Meat Tiverton toad-in-a-holb Town Transparent Treacle, Rolled Trinity College Tun BRIDGE United States Upton uxbridgb Vanilla Custard Veal and Macaroni Veal Vegetable Vermicelli Vermicelli, Baked Vermicelli, Boiled Vice-Chancellor's Victoria Virginia Wafer Welsh West Country West Indian White Whiting Wholesome Fare Wilberforce Wiltshire Windsor Woodcock Yankee Pudding Yorkshire [Sauce Yule Zandrina Puddings for Invalids.—The simpler and lighter puddings for invalids are the more easily they will be digested. Wine or brandy should only be put into them when specially ordered, and as to sugar, cream, and flavouring, the taste of the patient should be ascertained before they are added. Sick people have generally a great objection to highly-flavoured dishes. The following is a light little pudding, and can be quickly prepared:—Beat a tea- spoonful of flour to a smooth paste, and pour over it a tea-cupful of boiling milk, which has been lightly flavoured with lemon or cinnamon. Add a pinch of salt and a tea-spoonful of sugar, and stir until the latter is dissolved. When the milk is cold, strain it, and stir into it a well- beaten egg. Pour the custard into a buttered basin, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out upon a hot plate, and, if approved, serve with a glassful of sherry or a little jam. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d Puddings in Haste. — Take a cupful each of flne-shred suet, finely-grated bread- crumbs, and picked and washed currants. Mix these ingredients with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of sliced peel, and a pinch of salt. When the dry ingredients are well mixed, make them up into a light paste with two well-beaten eggs and half a cupful of milk. Wring some small cloths out of boiling water, flour them, and tie in each a small tea-cupful of themixturo. Plunge them into boiling water, and boil quickly. Turn them out on a hot dish, sprinkle white sugar thickly over them, and serve. Time to boil, twenty miputeg. Probable cost, 8d,