( 749 ) BIO BIG quantity contained in oatmeal. In rice-countries it has often been noticed that the natives devour what to us appear enormous quantities of the grain, and this circumstiince is ascribed to the small proportion it contains of the highly nutritive and necessary gluten. Rice contains also little fat, and hence it is less laxative than the other cereal grains, or rather, it possesses something of a binding nature. It has recently been observed that, when substituted for pota- toes in some of our workhouses—in consequence of the failui-e of the potato—this grain has, lifter a few months, produced scurvy. This may have been owing as much to the effects of sudden change of daet as to an inherent evil property in.the grain itself. Still it suggests, as many other facts do, the utility and whole- someness of a mixed food." Bice Omelet (a Danish recipe).—Take half a pound of rice and boil it till tender in a pint and a half of milk ; boil a stick of vaniUa in half a pint of cream, and stii- it into the warm rice with half a pound of fresh butter. When cool, add the yolks of ten eggs well beaten up, some white sugar, and a very little salt. Last of all, stir in the whites when beaten to snow; bake the omelet rather less than an hour. Bice Panada.—Take one pound of rice, previously washed, and boil it in one gallon of water for an hour; add three-quarters of an ounce of sugar and two ounces of salt; mix with some cold water to make a thin paste, one pound of flour or oatmeal, and half an ounce of curry-powder; add it to the rice, and boil for twenty minutes; then serve. Bice Pancakes.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint of milk till it is a smooth stiff paste. Turn it out, and when cool mix with it four eggs well beaten, half a pint of cream, a pinch of salt, and a little sugar and flavouring. Add four ounces of clarified butter, and beat the batter till it is quite smooth. Melt a little dripping or butter in a frying-pan, and fry the pancakes quickly. Sift powdered sugar over them, and send cut lemons or orange mar- malade to table with them. If the batter is not sufliciently thick a little flour may be added to it. This will depend upon the quality of the rice. Time to fry the pancakes, five to seven minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bice Pancakes, Ground. — Mix two tahle-spoonfuls of ground rice smoothly with a pint of milk, and stir the mixture over the fire till it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. Pour it into a bowl, and mix with it four ounces of fresh butter. When it is cool, sweeten and flavour it, and mix four well- beaton eggs with it. Drop the preparation into hot fat, and fry the pancakes till they are brightly browned. Serve on a white napkin, sift powdered sugar over them, and send wine sauce or cut lemon to table with them. Bice Paste for Savoury Dishes.— Put seasoned cutlets of veal, lamb, chicken, or gaTiie already dressed into a pie-dish, and cover the meat with a layer of rice which has been boiled to a stiff paste in milk, with a little pepper, salt, and onion for seasoning. Brush over with egg, and put it in the oven for a minute or two, to colour the paste lightly. A little egg mixed with the rice will make it adhere better. Bice Paste for Tartlets, &c.—Boil ;i quarter of a pound of ground rice in half a pint of water till the liquor is. absorbed. Squeeze it in a napkin till quite dry, then pound it in a mortar to a paste with a pinch of salt, a beaten egg, and an ounce of fresh butter. Roll it out till vei'y thin, and it will be ready for use. Or rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into half a pound of gi-ound rice. Add. a table-spoonful of sifted sugar and a pinch of salt, and make the mixture into a paste with cold water. Roll it out, spread a little more butter iipon it, or not, according to the richness requii-ed. Dredge flour under and over it in rolling, and it will be ready for use. Tartlets made with this pastry should be used the day they are made. Bice Pears.—Take a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in milk till quite thick, then stir in a piece of butter and a few grains of salt. Remove the rice from the fire, and put it into a dish to cool; add a spoonful of almonds chopped fine, with a few bitter almonds amongst them, the grated peel of a lemon, sugar to taste, three or four eggs beaten, and one ounce of grated bread-crumbs. Form this mass into the shape of pears, dip them in egg beaten up, strew thickly with bread-crumbs, and bake. Bice, Pears with, {see Pears with Rice). Bice Pie.—Put three large table-spoonfuls of ground rice into a basin, and beat it to a paste with a pint of cold milk. Add two table- spoonfuls of sugar, fovir well-beaten eggs, and any flavouring that may be preferred. Pour a pint of boiling milk over the mixture, stir it well over the fire until the eggs are set, then let it cool. Add a glass of madeira if liked. Line a pie-dish with good pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Bice Pie (another way). — Chief ingre- dients : a pint of rice and a fat tender fowl. First boil the fowl in enough water to cook the rice according to the rule given in the re- cipe. Rice, Boiled, a la Carolina [which ncc). When the fowl is done take out the large bones, and cut it into small pieces. Spread a layer of the cooked rice on the bottom of a deep pan, and on it place a layer of the fowl, with butter and eggs mixed, and with black pepper and spices to suit. Alternate these layers until the pan is full, having a layer of rice at the top, on which pour a mixture of butter and egg, and set the whole to " browning " in an oven or on the fire; then serve in the vessel in which it was last cooked. This dish somewhat re- sembles in richness the celebrated pilau of the Turks. The recipe is from the same source as that for Rice, Boiled, h, la Carolina. Bice, Polish "Way of Dressing.— Mince an onion finely, and fry it in butf.T