( 688 ) RAB RAB sauco. When you aro going to send tip to table, lirst disli tho mcinbors, next the small whito onions, and then put the bacon and tho mush- rooms over. Take oft' the fat uud scum, otlicr- wiso there can bo no good cookery; and cover the whole with tho sauce when reduced. Rabbit IQosse.—Minco finely tho white meat of a cold-di-cssed rabbit. Soak an equal quantity of bread in cold milk or water, squeeze it diy, and mix it with the minced meat. Cut one or two slices of fat bacon into small s([uares, and fry them gently. Add tho minced meat, and stir in one or two eggs. Let tho mixture cook a few minutes. Turn it out on a dish, and when cool add two more eggs. Form it into balls tho size of an egg, and be careful to handle them lightly, and to dip the fingers frequently in water while doing so. When wanted drop these gently into boiling water, and boil them until they are set. Lift them out with a skimmer, pile them in the centre of a smp.ll dish, and surround them with fried potatoes. Send any piquant sauce or gravy to table with them. Time to boil, about ten minutes. Rabbit, Larded.—Skin, empty, and wash a fat young rabbit, cut off its head, and divide the body into four equal parts. Lard tho fleshy part of each portion with thin strips of fat bacon, fry the quarters in hot fat till they ai'e lightly browned, and lay them aside. Put about a pint and a half of nicely-flavoured and seasoned stock into a saucepan, thicken ,with a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening, and let it simmer gently until it is smooth and of the consistency of cream. Stir into it a glassful of sherry or madeira, add the rabbit, and let it remain until it is thoroughly hot without boiling. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with cut lemon and parsle3\ Time, half an hour, exclusive of the time required for making the stock. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., without the wine* Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Marbled (to be eiten cold- suitable for breakfast, luncheon, or supper).— Take a couple of fine rabbits. Skin, empty, and wash them; take out the livers and kidneys, and fry them in plenty of hot fat till they are tender and darkly coloured, then lay them aside. Put the rabbits into boiling water, and let them remain in it for five minutes. This is to blanch them. Take them up, drain them, put them into a stewpan, pour over' them as much cold water as will cover them, and add an onion stuck with four cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently till tender, and carefully skim the broth. Cut ofp the heads and necks of the rabbits, lift the flesh from the bones in largo neat pieces, and lay these aside. Scrape off the remainder of the meat from the bones, take care of it, and put all the bones into a clean saucepan with tlie rabbit broth and half an ounce of gelatine which has been soaked for an hour in cold water. Put into this a small portion of ham or bacon, and let it simmer till done cnouj^h, then take it out, and let tho ^avy simmer till it is reduced to a pint. Strain the gravy through a jolly-bag, r-arcfally clear it from fat, and if necessary clarify it with whitt; of egfr, .md season it well, llinco the Hcrapin^/s of th,- meat with an equal (juantity of fut bacon, ;uid the weight of the meat in finely-grated bread- crumbs, season tho mixture with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and powdered herbs, Ijind it together with egg, and form it into balls the size of a small nutmeg. Throw tli(;S(; into boiling water till they are set—they will take about ten minutes. Dip a deep mould into cold water, pour into this a small portion of the gravy just befoi;e it jellies, and let it flow round and round until it begins to set. Arrange the pieces of rabT)it in this, together with the ham or bacon cut into sti-ips, the liver and kidney sliced, the forcemeat balls, and one or two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. IJe-careful not to pack the ingredients closely, but to leave room for the jelly to flow in amongst them, and also in placing the pieces to contrast the colours, that the mould may look pretty when it is turned out. Pour the jelly overall,and set the mould in a cool place. When wanted, turn it upon a dish, and it is ready for serAang. Time, four or five hours. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for a large dish. Rabbit, Marinaded and Baked (a German recipe).—Skin, empty, and wash a fine rabbit, and let it lie for three or four hours in a marinade composed of a glassful of port or claret, a glassful of vinegar, a sliced onion, twenty peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and three pounded cloves. Turn and baste it three or four times. Tie slices of fat bacon across its back, fill it or not with veal forcemeat, lay it in a deep earthen dish, and pour the marinade upon it. Lay some large pieces of dripping upon it, bake in a moderate oven until done enough, and baste three or four times with the marinade. Half an hour before it is done enough pour a quarter of a pint of new milk over it, and baste tho rabbit -with this. Place it on a hot dish, take out the skewers, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and garnish with slices of lemon. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost of rab- bits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Marinaded and Pried.—Cut the rabbit into neat pieces the si^e of an egg. Lay these in a deep pan ^vith a table spoonful of oil, a table-spoonful of ravigote or tarragon vinegar, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Let them remain for throe hours, turning them about at intervals that they may be equally flavoured. Drain them, roll them in flour, and fry till they aro lightly browned. Serve very hot, garnish with fried parelcy, ^ and ^ send tomata sauce, piquant sauco. or maitre d'hotcl sauce to table with them. Time to fry, ton to fifteen minutes. Probable cost," 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit. Marinaded, and Pried in Batter.—Prepare the rabbit, and let it lie m :i marinade as in the la.st recipe. yVhcn making the marinade make at th": same time a batter for fr^-ing as follows:—Work a quarter