RED ( 723 ) REP liquor boil, then add graduaUy about three ounces of ground rice mixed smoothly with a little t>old water, and stir the preparation until it thickens and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Pour it into a damp mould, and put it aside until cold. Turn it upon a glass dish, and serve with cream or custard. If preferred, groats may be used instead of ground rice. Time to boil the preparation, about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Red Wine Custard (a Danish recipe).— Mix together in a bowl half a pint of good thick cream, half a pound of white sugar, the juice of three and the grated peel of one lemon, with half a pint of red wine. Let it all remain covered for twelve hours; then beat it well with a whisk till it froths ; let it stand a quar- ter of an hour longer that the froth may be firm, take it off with a slice, and put it into cups or a deep dish. To be eaten with Fancy Biscuits. Reform Chips.—Reform chips are used for garnishing purposes. They have a good appearance when placed in the centre of a dish of cutlets. Take equal quantities of dressed ingredients of different colours, such as pink ham, hard-boiled white of egg, black truffles, red carrots, or green pickles. Cut these into thin shreds about an inch long, make them quite hot, toss them lightly to mix them, and serve. Refreshing Beverage. — Slice two oranges and one lemon, which put into a jug with two ounces of sugar candy over which pour one quart of boiling water; stir it occa- sionally until cold. This drink is both good for invalids and for persons in health, especially in warm weather. Refreshing Drink for the Sick (In- valid Cookery).—Take two ounces of harts- horn shavings and boil them in a quart of water; when the hartshorn shavings are quite dissolved, set the liquid aside to settle. Before it is cold strain it through a tamis upon half a lemon sliced thin, and sugar to taste. Cover, and let it remain till cold, then mix with it a good glassful of Moselle or French wine. Refreshing Drinks.—Very refreshing drinks may be made from fresh fruit when it is in season, and they will be fovmd to be much superior to those which are made from fruit syrup. Pick a quart of fruit, and mash it well in a basin. Pour over it two quarts of cold spring water. Wash some paper in water tni it is reduced to a pulp. Put this into the basin with the fruit, pour the whole into a jelly-bag, and strain off the juice. Add sugar boiled to a syrujj and a little lemon-juice, if liked. Serve the fruit-water in glasses. Cherries, red and white currants, raspberries, and strawberries, are specially suited for these drinks. The cherries should have boiling water poured over them, and should bo allowed to soak for an hour or two. When these fruits are not in season, pour boiling water over three or four baked apples, ■while thf^y are still hot. Strain off the liquor when it is cold, anu sweeten with honey or axoist sugar- It will prove a very welcome beverage. In winter-time slice a lemon and two oranges into a jug. Pour over these a quai-t of boiling water, add a table-spoonful of crushed sugar-candy, and strain the liquor when cold. A considerable variety of refresh- ing drinks will be found under the heading Summer Beverages. Refrigerants.—What are called freezing mixtm-es are such as produce cold by and during the Liquefaction of their solid ingre- dients, and the consequent absorption of heat on which their solid form depended. Such mixtures reduce the temperature of substances immersed in them on the principle of the transfer of heat, which always takes place from hotter to colder bodies when exposed to each other. " The process used by confectioners for pro- ducing cold is by the mixture of ice and common salt, which, both liquefying, absorb so much heat, or, in other words, produce as much cold as will reduce the thermometer from the usual temperature to the zero of Fahrenheit's scale, or even rather below it. If, however, freshly- faUen snow be used instead of ice, then the fluidity is more suddenly produced, and the cold is more intense. " In freezing-mixtures, the substances com- bined have such an affinity for each other that when intimately blended they combine chemi- cally, and in so doing liquefy. The operation should be so arranged that no heat be furnished either by the vessel in which the liquefaction takes place, or from an)' external source. Under such circumstances the heat absorbed during the liquefaction must be furnished by the ma- terials of the freezing-mixture or by the body which it is intended artificially to cool or to freeze. " Many recipes are to be met with for freez- ing-mixtures. One or two examples will suffice here. With equal weights of fresh snow (or pounded ice) and common salt, a temperature of — 4 degrees Fahr. can be maintained for many hours. A mixture of throe-parts cry- stallised chloride of calcium and two parts of snow will produce a depression of temperature sufficient to freeze mercury. If the vessel in which the materials are to be mixed and the chloride be cooled to 32 degrees a temperature of —50 degrees can be produced. The most powerful freezing-mixture is formed by dis- solving solid carbonic acid or solid nitrous oxide in sulphuric ether. For more moderate tem- peratures, certain salts, easily procurable, may be used. Thus, four ounces of nitre and four ounces of sal-ammoniac, both in fine powder, mixed with eight ounces of water, will reduce the thermometer from 60 degrees to 10 degrees. Equal parts of water, of powdered crystallised nitrate of ammonia, and of powdered crystallised carbonate of soda wiU lower the temperature from 50 degrees to — 7 degrees." Even in hot climates ice may be produced under favourable circumstances by evaporation. Near Calcutta this is managed on the open plains by exposing a thin stratum of water to the atmosphere during the fine clear nights of December, January, and February. The pans are composed of porous earthenware, and water is poured in to the depth of about an inch ancj[