VEA VEA ( 1059 ) Probable cost, 3s. Sd. Sufficient for a moderate- sized dish. Veal Pie, Parsley.—Cut some slices of lean veal into neat pieces, and season these with salt and cayenne. Take a handfiil of parsley, pick the leaves from the stems, scald them, press, dry, and chop them small. Fill the dish with layers of veal, and sprinkle a little parsley over each laj'er. Pour milk into the dish in- stead of stock. Cover the dish with pastry in the usual way, and bake until done enough. Lift up the crust, pour away the milk, and substitute for it half a pint of boiling cream. Serve immediately. Veal Pie, Plain (for fanrdly use).—Take two pounds of the breast of veal, cut it into pieces an inch and a half square, and season the meat by sprinkhng over it a savoury powder made of two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one tea- spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoonful of pounded mace, and half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. Pour over the meat a small quan- tity of water, and add a few sticks of celery, an onion, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Let the meat heat gently, and add a little more water till there is as much as will barely cover the meat. Stew the veal very gently till it is tender. Let it remain until cold, then take out ths fat. Place the meat in layers in a pie-dish, and put in with the veal a little ham or bacon, three eggs boiled hard, shelled, and sliced, and a few forcemeat balls. All or any of these ingredients may be omitted. Sti-ain a little of the stock over the meat. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, cover with the same, and make a hole in the centre. Ornament the sur- face of the pie, brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn the pie about that it may be equally baked. Boil the gravy that was not used, and when the pie comes from the oven pour it in. If more con- venient, the veal, instead of being stewed in. a saucepan, may be put into a pie-dish, covered with a dish, and stewed in a moderate oven. Time to stew the veal, about one hour and a quarter; to bake the pie, three quarters of an hour to one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, veal, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Veal Pie, Kaised.—Take a pound and a half of lean veal and a poimd of ham. Cut three-parts of the veal into neat pieces, and season these, with pepper and chopped mush- rooms. Mince the remainder of the veal with an equal quantity of fat bacon, pound the mix- ture in a mortar, and season with salt and cayenne. A small piece of onion, herbs, and spices may be added to the forcemeat, if liked. Line a mould with pastry in the usual way. Cover the bottom with forcemeat, and fill the pie with alternate layers of thinly-sliced ham, veal, and forcemeat. Lay thin slices of fat bacon on the top of the meat, put a bay-leaf on that, and finish and bake the pie (see Raised Pies). Half an hour after it is taken from the oven pour into it, through a pointed strainer placed in the hole at the top, a little highly- seasoned gravy which will form a strong jelly when cold. This joUy may be made by stewing a calf's foot and the bonos and trimmings of the veal with an onion stuck with two cloves, a small bunch of herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg in stock or water for a couple of hours. "^Tien the pie is sufficiently baked, a skewer will pierce it easily. If liked, the pieces of veal in the pie may be larded. Time to bake the pie, two houi-s or more. Veal Pie, Solid.—Put a piece of the knuckle of veal into a stewpan, cover with water, let it boil up, then simmer till it is quite tender. Let it get cold, then divide it into small pieces. Butter a plain round or oval shape, and cover the bottom with the yolks and whites of hard-boUed eggs neatly arranged. Place over these some pieces of the meat and gristle, with a seasoning of salt, pepper, pounded mace, and grated lemon-rind. Pour in a little of the gravy in which the meat was boiled, and which ought to form a strong ieUy, and fill the dish with the meat, hard-boHed eggs, and sliced beetroot, so arranged that the colours will con- trast prettily. Pour in as much gravy as vdll cover the ingredients, and bake the pie in. a well-heated oven. When quite cold, turn it out. It ought to have a glazed appearance. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Veal Pie, Superlative.—Butter a dish, and fiU it with alternate layers of lean veal cut into neat pieces and seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, thin ham sliced, sweetbread, and chopped truffles. Place little pieces of butter here and there in the pie. Cover the dish with rich pastry, and bake till done enough. After the pie is taken from the oven, pour into it through the hole in the centre some gravy made of some strong, highly-seasoned veal stock mixed with a glassful of champagne. Veal Pie with Oysters.—Take a po\md and a half of veal cutlet half an inch thick. Flatten the meat with a cutlet-bat, sprinkle over it a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and cut it into neat pieces. Spread upon these a thin covering of lean ham minced and pounded, and roll them up. Place them at the bottom of a pie-dish, and put a layer of oysters upon them. Eepeat until the dish is full. Stew the bones and trimmings of the veal in stock or water, thicken the liquor with flour and butter, and add the oyster liquor. Pour the strained gravy over the meat, and keep back a portion to put into the pie when it is baked. Cover the pie with pastry, and bake in the usual way. Time to bake the pie, an hour and a half to two hours. Veal Pie with Pork.—Take equal quan- tities of veal and pork in slices half an inch thick, cut the meat into neat pieces, and season these with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Boil two onions, mince them finely, and mix with them a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley and another of shred sage. FiR the dish with alternate layers of veal and pork, and sprinkle a little of the savoury mixture over each layer. Pour half a tea-cupful of veal stock or water over the meat, cover with pastrj-, and bake in the usual way. Time to bake the pie, an hour and a half to two hours. Veal Pie with Potatoes (Cold Meat Cookeky).—Cut some cold dressed veal into small neat pieces, and slice double the quan-