( 925 ) 9TO STO made, that is, all flavouring ingredients should be omitted entirely until its use is decided upon. The stock will then keep longer than it would do if vegetables, herbs, and spices were boiled in it, besides which the flavom-ing can be adapted to its special piirpose. To ensui'e its keeping, stock should bo boiled and skimmed every day in summer, and every other day in winter. The pan and the lid used in making it should be scrupulously clean. A tinned iron pan is the best for the purpose. Those who need to practise economy will do well to procure a digester, which is a kind of stock-pot made with the object of retaining the goodness of the materials, and preventing its escape in steam. When ready, stock should be poui'ed into an earthenware pan, and left imcovered until it is cold. It should on no account be allowed to cool in a metal pan. Before being used, every particle of fat which has settled on the surface should be removed, and the liquor should be poured off free from sediment. A few years ago it was customary for cooks to make stock with fresh meat only, the rule being a pound of meat to a pint of stock. Altered prices have necessitated the adoption of more economical methods, and now excellent stock is constantly made with the bones and trinmiings of meat and poultry, with the addition or not of a Uttle fresh meat, or a portion of Liebig's Extract of Meat. In a house where meat is regularly used, a good cook will never be without a Httle stock. Broken renmants of all kinds will find their way to the stock-pot, and will not be thrown away imtil, by gentle stewing, they have been made to yield to the utmost whatever of fla- vour and of goodness they possessed. When fresh meat is used it is better for being freshly IciUed. The liquor in which fresh meat has been boiled should always be used as stock. {Soe Principles of Cookery, xxv.) Stock, Browning for. — There are various ways of browning stock. The best of all is to let it boU to a glaze when making it, and then to let it colour itseK over the fire. Stock made from bones cannot be thus coloured, and it is therefore necessary to impart a brown look to it by other means. The addition of Liebig's Extract answers the purpose slightly, but not always sufficiently. Burnt onions and colouring-balls may be bought, which ai'e manufactured expressly for this end, but they often impart an unpleasant flavour to the soup. Brown thickening may be used when it is wished that the stock should be thickened as well as browned, though it must be remembered that after St is added the stock must simmer by the side of the fire, that it may throw up the fat, which should be removed. Liquid browning, which can be bottled and used as required, may be made as follows:—Put a quarter of a pint of moist sugar into a stewpan. and let it remain over a gentle fire till it is melted. Keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it is almost black, then pour upon it a pint of water, and let it remain until dissolved. Three or four drops will colour a pint of stock. Stock, Clarifying.—When from some ^C'ltnt the stock i.s not as (;l(;ar uiui brij^ht us it should be, proceed as follows:—For a quart of stock whisk the white of an egg with a quarter of a pint of water. Stir this briskly into the stock when it is just warm, let it boil, and carefully remove the scimi as it rises. Draw it back, and keep it boiling gently for half an hour, continuing to skim it when possible. Let it stand for a quarter of an hour to settle, and strain it through a jeUy-bag. If three or four ounces of lean meat are minced and pounded to pulp, and mixed with the white of egg before it is put in, the stock will bt. enriched as weU as cleared. Stock-flsh.—This is the commercial term used to denote salted and dried cod and other fish of the same family, particularly hake, ling, and torsk. The fish is cured as soon as possible after being caught. It is first split up from head to tail, and thoroughly cleaned by plentiful washings with salt water; a piece of the backbone is then cut away, and after the superfluous water has been drained off, the fish are laid in long vats, covered with salt, and kept down by means of heavy weights. After a time they are taken out, washed and brushed, and laid out, exposed to the action of sun and air, on rocks or on a sandy beach. They are afterwards piled up into little heaps, and when they have acquired a fine whitish appearance, known as the bloom, they are considered ready for the market. The quantity of stock-fish cured on the southern coasts of Britain is in- considerable, but it is otherwise in the north. The cod, ling, and hake fisheries of Scotland rank next in importance to its herring fishery. Stock for Aspic Jelly (economical).— Put a pint of stock into a saucepan. Add two ounces of gelatine, a bay-leaf, a small sprig of thyme, three cloves, three shallots, and a quarter of a blade of mace, and stir the liquor over the fire tiU the gelatine is dissolved. Pour it out, and let it become almost cold. Whisk the white of an egg with a quarter of a pint of water. Add the crushed shell of the egg, and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Put the stock again in the saucepan, and stir the mix- ture briskly into it over the fire till it boils. Let it boil for ten minutes and then settle for ten minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag into a large shallow dish, and when cold and stiff the jelly will be fit for use. Time, altogether, about an hour. Stock for Jelly (see Calf's Foot Stock for JeUy). Stock for Soup {see Mutton Stock for Soup). Stock freed from Pat.—Let the stock get cold, then carefully take from it the coatinp- of fat which lies on the top. If it is still greasy,' put it into a saucepan, simmer gently by the side of the fire, and carefully skim off the fat as it rises until no more appears. If after it is put into the tureen bubbles of fat appear on the surface, remove as much as possible by skim- ming, and take off what remains by laying a piece of blotting-paper or, failing this, of com- mon brown paper, lightly on the top, so that the; grease may adhere to it.