( 683 ) PLA PLA Sago (Orchis Morio).—This is a plant par- ticuliu-ly abundant in the Vale of Gloucester. The powder of its roots is used in making the beverage called salop. 'PiLsvroTLT {Itanunculus Ficaria).—The young leaves are boiled in spring by the common people in Sweden, and eaten as greens. " The roots are sometimes washed bare by the rain, 80 that the tubercles appear above ground, and in this state have induced the ignorant in super- stitious times to fancy that it rained wheat, which these tubercles somewhat resemble." Silver-weed [Potentilla anserina).—The roots of this plant are frequently eaten in Scot- land, either roasted or boQed. They taste like parsnips. Solomon's-Seal {Fohjgonatum vulgare).—The young shoots are boUed and eaten as greens. The roots are sometimes dried, ground, and made into bread. Tree Primrose, or German Rampion (CEnotkera biennis).—A native of Virginia,but naturalised in some parts of England. When the plant is cultivated like the carrot or parsnip its roots are crisp and sweet. Viper's Grass, or Spanish Salsify [Scor- zonera hispanica). — This plant was once be- lieved to be an antidote to the bite of the adder: it is now used merely as a dietetic plant. The ■ roots are fleshy and not unlike carrots and par- snips. When boiled their flavour is very like that of asparagus. Edible Leguminous Wild Plants. Sea-peas (Pisum maritimum).—The taste of the sea-pea is bitter and disagreeable: when more pleasant food is to be had it is therefore let alone. In 1555, however, when there was a great famine in England, the seeds of the sea- pea were employed as food, and by this means thousands of fives were saved. Wild Vetches {Lathyra, Vicia, and Ervum). The seeds of all the British species of these genera may be employed as peas. They are met with in hedges, woods, and cornfields, and are particularly abimdant in dry seasons. Wild Plants that maybe employed as Salads. Ladies'-Smock (Cardamine pratensis). — The leaves furnish an agreeable acrid salad not un- like the American cress. BucKSHORN Plantain, or Star op the Earth {Plantago coronopiis).—A hardy annual, a native of Britain, met with in sandy soils. It used to be cultivated as a salad herb, and em- ployed like the common cress; now, however, it is neglected, probably on account of its rank and disagreeable.smell. _ Dandelion [Leontodon Taraxacum).—A na- tive of Britain, a hardy perennial, well known to every one, and regarded by gardeners as a troublesome weed. It may be used as salad, and the root is much employed by the poor in some continental districts as a substitute for coffee. The young roots and also the blanched leaves, which considerably resemble those of endive, are sometimes eaten in France with thm slices of bread and butter. Ox-eye Daisy {Ghrymnthcmim leucanthe- mum). — A perennial plant common in dry pastures. Salad Burnet {Poteriim Sanguitorba).—The leaves of the salad bumet smeU and taste just like cucumber. Sea Bindweed {Convolvulussoldanella).—This plant is plentiful on the sea-coasts, where the natives gather the tender stalks and pickle them. Stonecrop, or Orpine [Sedum telephium).— The leaves of the stonecrop are eaten in salads like those of purslane, to which the French hold it to be equal. Sweet Cicely [Seandix odorata).—The leaves of this plant used to be employed like those of the chervil. The green seeds ground small and used with lettuce and other cold salads impart to them a warm agreeable taste. Wild Plants furnishing a Substitute for Tea. Speedwell [Veronica spieata).—This is occa- sionally employed as a substitute for tea: it is said to have an astringent taste Hke green tea. Spring Grass {Anthoxanthum odoratum).—A decoction of this highly odoriferous grass is said strongly to resemble tea. Black-currant leaves also furnish a very good substitute for green tea, and those of Saxifraga crassifoHa are reported to be used as tea in Siberia. Betonica ofiicinalis is held by some to have the taste and all the good qualities of foreign tea vnthout the bad ones. Miscellaneous Edible Wild Plants. Butterworth [Pinguicula vulgaris).—In Lap- land and the north of Sweden the inhabitants pour milk warm from the cow on this plant, thus giving it the consistency of cream. They then strain it immediately, and lay it aside for two or three days till it acquires a degree of acidity. '' This milk they are extremely fond of; and once made they need not repeat the use of the leaves as above, for a spoonful of less of it will coagulate another quantity of warm milk, and make it like the first, and so on as often as they please to renew their food. Cow-parsnip (Seracleum sphondylimn).—In Kamschatka, about the beginning of July, the natives collect the footstalks of the radical leavef of this plant, peel oflE the rind, and dry them separately in the sun. They then fasten them in bundles, and lay them up carefully in the shade. Shortly afterwards these dried stalks are covered over with a yellow saccharine efflorescence tasting like liquorice, and in this state they are eaten as a delicacy. The Russians not only eat the stalks thus prepared, but manage to get a very intoxicating spirit from them. Heath [Erica vulgaris).—The young tops of the heath are said to have been once used alone to brew a kind of ale, and even now the inhabi- tants of some of the Scottish isles manufacture a very potable liquor by mixing two-thirds of the tops of the heath with one of malt. Substitutes for Capers. — Amongst these are the flower-buds of the marsh marigold, the young seed-pods of the common radish, and the unripe seeds of the garden nastiu-tium. Poisonous Plants to be avoided in searching FOR Edible Wild Plants. " The principal poisonous plants, natives, or growing in Britain," says Loudon, "are the following : the whole for obvious reasons ought to be known at sight by every gardener;—.