( 652 ) PRE PRE maimer of the tins of moat in the chloride of i iilcmm proceaa, aa adopted in the pruaervation of meat. After roniaininf? in the bath aomo Lmie, they arc again lifted by the crancis, and oniptied into large open funnel-shaped vata, whence the hot milk is drawn up, throuf,'h a pipe in the centre, into the condeusing-pans on tJie upper tioor. Su-^ar having been mixed with it, solely, let it be renuu-ked, for the purpoBO of preserving it, it remaina in tliese pans, subject tv a somewhat low heat, for two or three hours, while the evaporation of the water is taking place, and the milk is gradually becoming condensed. When tins part of the process, which may bo watched through the glass ■svindow of the condenser, is completed, the milk, now about the consistency of liquid honey, returns by a pipe into a lower room, and is received again into the open cylinders, whicli are swung into the central tanks—this time tilled with cold water—for the purpose of cool- ing. The regulation of the temperatui-e dming the whole of these processes is a matter of the greatest nicety, and of the utmost importance in securing success. After cooling the con- densed milk, it is taken to the ' filling room,' and run into the tins, which are at once soldered up, and packed in cases ready to be sent to their dilferent destinations. The condensed milk gradually thickens in the tins, becoming slightly more consistent up to five or six months, after which it remains of the same consistency, and will continue sound and good as long as the tin remains perfect. " It will thus be seen that the condensed milk is simply natural cows' milk, from which a certain proportion of water has been abstracted, and to which a certain quantity of sugar has been added. Speaking in round numbers, it may be said that of cows' milk 85 per cent is water, but, as has been demonstrated by evi- dence given at various prosecutions under the 'Adulteration of Food Act' during the last few years, the relative proportion of water and soKd matter v?iU vary according to the variation of the breed of cattle, their age, pasturage, food, climate, and the seasons of the year. Ordinary mUk, according to Professor Wanklyn, consists of the following proportions:—water, 87"19; and solids, 12-81 = 100. Condensed milk, ac- cording to Baron von Liebig, shows—water, 22-44; solids, 77-56 = 100. The process of con- densing, or, as it might be called, evaporising milk eliminates the greater part of the water ; and the further analysis of the condensed milk shows that the caseine, butterous or fat, and other solid or nutritive particles remain intact in their original form. Thus we have an article which is in reality ^wre milk with the addition of a little sugar in order to preserve it, and not an article made/ro/w milk. Any introduction of a foreign substance, in the way of adulteration, would at once cause the milk to decompose, and we believe we are quite correct in saying that no attempt has ever been made to adulterate this article. When the contents of a tin are found to be unsound, the cause it; co be souf;ixt in the failure in making a pr^rticular batch of milk—always a most delicate operation—owing to which the external air has been admitted. Baron Liebig, in his recorded analysis of the Swiaa nulk, aaya,' It conflists of nothing but cows' milk and tho best refined sugar, and poa- aoaacs all tlie proiKjrtiea and quaUti(;s of a jx.-r- fec.tly i)ure milk;' und Dr. ilaswidl and oilier eminent analysts certify to the same effect. But it is in the jxiwer of any ojie to teat the con- densed milk without the aid of any chemical appliances. If sullicient w/ttc^i- is added to th(; condensed milk to bring it back to its original state—i.e., to re-estalilish th<! (jriginul jjropor- tion between tlie water and other constituents, cream will rise from it in the ordinajy way; only it muat be stood in open flat veasels, and not in high glass columns, called ' graduated test tubes,' beaiuse the sugar to aome extent pre- vents the cream readily rising. Again, if the condensed milk, mixed with the pro]>er projior- tion of water, be raised to a temperature- of 70 degrees, it will chum into butter like ordinary milk. " Each one-pound tin represents the conden- sation of about two quarts to five pints of crude milk, and therefore will bear so nmch water added to it as to bring it back to its original condition and bulk. In each tin there is about four ounces of the best refined sugar. Now, putting the value of the tin at one penny, and the milk at tenpence, we get for sevenpence or eightpence what otherwise would cost us from elevenpence to one shilling, simply because the manufactuiers in countrj' districts can obtain the milk at about twopence per quart. Of the convenience of the article it is hardly necessary to speak. It is invaluable for travellers by land and sea. Nor is it less convenient as an article for ordinary household consumption, while the certainty of its genuineness adds much to its value. It can be used for any purpose for which ordinary milk and sugar are used—for puddings, custards, and other culi- nary requirements ; it is admirably adapted for eating with fruit tarts, as Devonshire cream, and with the usual ingredients makes capital salad-di-essing. Less than a tea-spoonful, without water, is sufficient for a cup of tea, while four or five times that quantity will make a basin of sweet bread and milk for a child. It is almost impossible to exaggerate the value of this milk for infants and children, especially during the prevalence of infantile diarrha^a, which, in the opinion of the majoiity of medical men, is to be attributed to the badness of the milk supplied to the poor in large centres of population." Preserve or Jam Omelet. — Beat thorouglily the yolks of six eggs. Add three ounces of sugar, and if any flavouring is added be careful that it harmonises with the jam that is to be used. A strawberry omelet may be flavoured with orange-flower water, an apple-mai-malade omelet with grated Icrton- rind. Boat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and just before tho omelet is poured into the pan mix thom with the rest. Dissolve two ounces of butter in the omelet-pan, pour in the mixture, and fry the omelet in the usual way {see Omelet). Before folding it, lay tw o or throe table-spoonfuls of jam in the centre. Sprinkle a little sugar over" the top, candy by holding over it a siil.nnander or red-hot fire-shovel, and serve immediately before the omelet am fall.