VEA ( 1060 ) tity of small cold boiled jiotatoes. Butter a pio-dish, aud fill it with altomato layers of cold meat and Bliced potatoes. Season eaeh layer witli pepper aud salt, gi-ated nutmeg, and grated Icmon-riud, and lay littlo pieces of butter hero and there upon it. Cover the meat with good pastry, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the pastry is done onougli, the pie wHl bo ready for serving. Veal Pie with Sausage.—Take some cutlets half an inch thick from the fillet of veal. Season those with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and fill a dish with alternate layers of the cutlet and of liologna sausage thinly sliced. The veal will yield sufficient gravy to moisten the pie. Cover with good pastry, and bake in the usual way. This pie is excellent eaten cold. Veal Pie with Sweetbreads.—Take a pound and a half of veal and a sweetbread. Cut the veal into pieces an inch and a half square, and season these as in the previous re- cipes. Soak the sweetbread for an hour, throw it into boiling salted water, and boU for a quarter of an hour. Cut it into slices. Butter the pie- dish, fill it with alternate layers of veal and sweetbread, and lay upon the surface three or four hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Intersperse amongst the pieces of meat, oysters, mushrooms, or forcemeat balls. Pour over the meat a small quantity of gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the veal stewed in cold water till the stock will jelly when cold, and flavoured with lemon, sweet herbs, and ketchup. Have ready some nicely-seasoned gTavy to pour into the pie when it is baked. Cover and bake the pie in the usual way. Time to bake the pie, one hour and a half to two hours. Veal Pies, Raised (small).—Take the lean part of the best end of a neck of veal, with half its weight in thinly-sliced ham. Divide the meat into pieces an inch square. Put the bones and trimmings of the meat into a sauce- pan, cover them with water, add flavouring ingredients, and stew the liquor tUl it is plea- santly flavoured and so strong that it wiU jelly when cold. Put the veal into a stewpan, cover it with the strained stock, and add half a quarter of a pint of cream and a few mushrooms, if these can be obtained. Let the veal simmer gently for an hour, then let it get cold. Line some small pate moulds. Fill them with the preparation, cover them, and bake tiU done enough. Serve cold. Time to bake the pies, according to size, say till a skewer will pierce them easily. Veal, Pilau of.—"Wash a pound of rice, tlirow it into boiling water, and boil it quickly for five minutes. Drain it, put it into a stew- pan with four ounces of butter, and stir over a brisk fire till the rice is equally and lightly coloured without being at all burnt. Pour over it a pint and a half of stock or water, and let it simmer very gently till the grains are tender. Sprinkle a little curry powder over the rice, and stir it with a fork. Spread a littlo on a dish. Place upon it a few di-essed veal cutlets or a small breast of veal, which has been partially roasted, cut into neat pieces, and stewed in rich gravy. Arrange a few rashers of fried bacon round the veal, cover thu meat witli rice, brush over with beaten egg, and place it in the oven till it is brown and hot tln-ougliout. Gai-nish the dish witli forceni(;at balls, and serve hot. Time, altogether, two hours and a half to thiee houi-s. Veal Pluck.—Take a calf's heart with the liver and lights. Wash the lieart in several waters, let it soak for half an hour, di-ain and dry it, fill it with good veal forcemeat, tie thin slices of fat bacon round it, and roast or bake it. Soak the liver and hghts, boil them for an hour, and mince them. Put this mince into a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, the thin rind of half a lemon, half a blade of mace, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Cover with gravy, aud let it simmer gently till done enough. Season with pejiper and salt, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and a httle strained lemon-juice. Slice the remainder of the liver, and frj'^ in the usual way {see Liver, Fried). Place the mince upon a dish, put the heart upon it, and garnish the dish with the fried hver, fried rashers of bacon, toasted sippets, and parsley. Serve very hot, and send good brown gravy to table with it. Time, one hour and a half to roast the heart; half an hour to simmer the mince in the gravy. Veal Pot Pie (economical family dish).— Take two pounds of the breast or scrag of veal, or, if prefeiTed, two pounds of cold dressed veal. Cut it into small pieces convenient for servong, and with it half a pound of pickled pork. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently tUl tender. If the veal has been cooked, the bones and trimmings of the meat only ought to be stewed. Put the meat into a dish, and let it cool. Line the edges of a large pie-dish with good plain pastry or with bread dough roUed to the thickness of half an inch. Put in'the meat with six or eight potatoes, and di-edge a table-spoonful of floui- over it, -with, a tea-spoonful of pepper. Strain the gravy upon it, adding water if necessary to make the quantity up to one quart. Cut off as much pastry as is required to cover the dish, and lay the remainder in slices upon the meat. Put some skewers across to support the pastry, and place the cover on the top. Press the edges securely, make a slit in the centre that the steam may escape, and bake the pie in a weU-heated oven. "VNTien serving turn the pastry on a dish, place the meat upon it, and pour the gravy over all. Wholesome pastry may be made as follows: —Put two poimds of flour into a bowl, mix with it a tea-spoonful of salt, make a hole in the centre, and stir into it a tea-spoonful of powdered saleratus dissolved in a cupful of water. Make it into soft dough with sour milk. Veal Pottage.—Cut away from a knuckle of veal all the meat that can bo stewed or made useful in anv way, then break the bone into four or five pieces, and put these into a stewpan with an onion sttick with two cloves, a small blade of mace, a liunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-mc, a bay-leaf, six or eight peppercorns.