BAG ( 701 ) RAI Ragoiits, Forcemeat for {sec Forcemeat for Meat Pies or Kagouts). Ragouts, Gravy for all kinds of.— Take two slices of ham and two pounds of lean veal from the fillet. Cut the meat into six or eight pieces, and put these in a stewpan with half a pint of water. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, and simmer very gently for lialf an hour, when it will have nearly hoiled away. Turn the meat, put into the saucepan with it an onion stuck with two cloves, a hunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a hay-leaf, half a blade of mace, a carrot cut into two or three pieces, three or four outer sticks of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of celery seed tied in muslin, a little pepper and salt, and three pints of boiling water. Bring the liquor to the boil, draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer all very gently without the lid for two houi-s. Strain the liquor, and put it aside for use. The pieces of meat may be potted and serve as a relish for brealffast or luncheon, or they may be served with a piquant sauce. Sufficient for a quart of gravy. Probable cost, 3s. Time, two hours and a half. Ragouts, Gravy for all kinds of (another way).—The bones and trimmings of meat and poultrj' ought to fm-nish stock for making the sauces required for every-day use in an ordinary household. In a properly managed kitchen no bone otight to be thrown away until it has been stewed so that it is as clean as a piece of ivory. If cooks would only stew the bones thoroughly, they might save their masters many pounds in a year, which are otherwise spent in buying beef and veal for gravy ; and if the cook were clever in flavouring her sauces, six pei'sons out of ten would not discover that the sauce was not made from fresh meat. To make gravy from bones, break up the bones of a leg of mutton or of a piece of beef into small pieces. If these bones are not at hand, piirchase from the butcher two penny- worth of fresh. Wash these with scrupulous care, and cut away any portions that are not agreeable. 'I?ut the bones into a large saucepan, and pour over them five pints of cold water. If a very strong gi'avy is wanted, less water may be used. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, remove every particle of scum, and let it simmer very gently indeed for five hom-s. Strain it into a bowl, and if con- venient put it aside until the next day. Take away the cake of fat from the top (it may be used for frjdng fish, &c.), pour off the liquor gently, to leave undisturbed any sediment which may have settled at the bottom. Put the stock into a saucepan, and with it vegetables and herbs for flavouring suited to the meat with which it is to be served. For ordinary brown gravy the following will be sufficient:—a large carrot cut into three or four pieces, three or four outer sticks of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery seed tied in muslin, an onion stuck with three cloves, a small blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, two tea-spoonfuls of sfilt, and a tea-spoonful of pepper. Simmer all gently for two hours, strain the stock, and put it aside in a cool place. It will keep for a week in cold weather, in hot weather it should be boiled every other day. When it is wanted, take as much of it as is required, mix with it a small portion of Licbig's Extract of Meat, thicken it if necessary with a little brown thickening, and it will bo ready for use. Pro- bable cost, 6d., exclusive of the bones. Sufficient for a quai't of gravy. Time, two days. Raised Pie, French (see French Kaised Pie). Raised Pie, Lancashire {sec Lancashire Raised Pie). Raised Pies.—Raised pies may be made of any size and with almost all kinds of meat, poultiy, or game, the only indispensable requisite being that there shall be no bone in them. They arc usually served cold, and should be rather highly flavoured. The pastry of small pies is generally eaten, but with large pies it is merely used as a case in which to sei've the savoury preparation inside. There is no difficulty in making the pastry for raised pies, but inexperienced cooks are sure to find it diffi- cult to raise the walls of the pie. The process is much easier of accomplishment if a tin mould is used. Instructions are here given both for forming the pie with and without a mould {see Raised Pies, To Form). Raised pies should be baked in a well-heated but by no means brisk oven, and if there is any danger of the pastry being too highly coloured, a buttered paper should be laid over it. In order to ascertain whether or not the pie is done enough run a skewer into the middle of it, and if it is tender throughout it is done. When the appearance of the pie is a considera- tion, it is a good plan to cut the top carefully out, and cover the meat -wnth bright stiff aspic jelly cut into dice. If this is not done, however, a little good bright gravy which will form a jelly when cold should always be poured into the pie through the hole at the top whenever it is taken out of the oven. In summer time it is safer to stiffen this with a little dissolved isinglass. Raised Pies of Game or Poultry.— This recipe may be followed in making raised pies with all kinds of birds, and the quantity of forcemeat used must be proportioned to the size and number of the birds. Mttshrooms and truffles may be added if liked. -(Jut the bird open down the back, and bone it without in- juring the skin; lay it breast downwards upon a table, and season the inside with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Spread upon it a layer of veal forcemeat, and place on this first a layer of slices of veal, and then of slices of ham or tongue. Put a layer of forcemeat over all, and restore the bird to its original shape, making the skin meet where it was cut. Lino the pie with good veal forcemeat half an inch in thickness. Lay the bird upon this, cover with forcemeat and fill the vacant spaces with forcemeat and pieces of ham and veal; place a slice of butter and two bay-leaves on the top, put on the cover, and finish the pie as directed in the following recipes {sec Raised Pies, To Form):—Bake in a moderate oven. WliiM it is baking, stew the bones with a littlo