oassrll's oookkry. 1160 char the iiisides of these wooden vessels before they are used by burning wooden shavings, so as to coat the insides with a crust of chai-coal. b " As^Avhatever contaminates food in any way must be sure from the repetition of Its baneful ei5ects to injure the health, a due precaution with respect to all culinary vessels is necessary for its more certain preservation. There is a kind of hollow ironware lined with enamel, which is superior to every other utensil for sauces or Ijreserves; mdeed it is preferable for every purpose. • A kitchen sliould always be well furnished; there is no necessity tliat it should be profusely so, but there should be a suHiciency of everything which can aid in producing the dishes preparing with the success which is so essential to the gratifica- tion of the palate. A good workman cannot work well with bad tools, neither can good cooks do justice to theii- proficiency if they possess not the necessary utensils suitable to the various modes of cooking. And when this important point has been realised, cleanliness in every article used should be scrupulously observed; no utensil should be suflFered to be put away dirty; it not only injures the article itself materially, to say nothing of the impropriety of the habit, but prevents its readiness for use on any sudden occasion. No good cook or servant would be guilty of such an act. Cleanliness is a most essential ingi-edient in the art of cooking, and at any saciifice should be maintained in the kitchen." The following are the most important kitchen utensils:— Baking Dish.—Ordinary baking dishes are made of earthenware. Some house- keepers prefer them made of tin or of iron, enamelled on the inside, as being more durable. M. Soyer invented an improved baking dish, to which was attached a movable false grating of wire, and in the centre of this was fixed a trivet three inches in height. He put the pudding at the bottom of the dish; he then put in the grating, on which he placed the potatoes, and on the trivet he put the meat. By this means the surplus fat, which would otherwise have fallen on the pudding and prevented its setting, would descend on the potatoes, making them delicate and crisp. Probable cost of baking dishes, 4d. upwards, according to size and quality. Beer Taps.—Beer taps are made either of brass or wood. The former are the most durable, the latter the sweetest. Taps should always be brushed and laid in cold water for some hours after bemg taken out of one cask, before they are put into another. Several patent taps are sold of various kinds. One of these, the screw tap, is to be recommended to those who find it necessary to tap theii' own baiTels and have a difficulty in doing it. The tap needs only to be pushed into the cork, and screwed round and round till the circular piece of metal presses ujwn the cork. Probable cost, taps made of brass, from Is. 6d.; of wood, 4d.; screw taps, 2s. Gd. Boiler.—In large families the boiler is in frequent requisition. It is used for boiling large joints, hams, &c. Boilers are made in various sizes of wrought-ii-on or cast-iron. The wrought-iron ones cost from 16s. to 22s. 6d. The cast-ii'on ones from 4s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. Boilers should be washed out and diied perfectly as soon as possible after they are done with. The cover should be hung in the cupboard by the side of the pan when they are not in use. Bottle Jack and Wheel.—A bottle jack is a useful little machine for roasting joints of meat or poultry before the fire. It is wound up like a watch, and its action keeps the meat turfaing round and round, thus causing it to be eiiuaUy cooked. Probable cost, 8s. 6d., 10s. 6d., and 16s. 6d. Braising Pan or Braisi^ire.—A braisi^re is simply an oval steAvpan, with a cover so formed that live embers can be held in it, and thus the cooking process can be canied on from above as well as below. These pans are made both of copjjer and of tinned iron. The latter are much cheaper than the former, and just as good. As braisi^res are not very common in ordinary kitchens, it may be said that st«w- pan of modem form which will admit of embers being placed upon the lid will answer the same purpose. Probable cost, copper braising pans, with fij-e-pan, cover, and draining plates, from £3 10s. to £6 lOs., according to size. Bread Grater.—A bread gi-ater is made of tin, and is used to cinimble bread