( 669 ) until it becomes reduced to a proper con- sistency. Then let it become cold, and thicken with three eggs, beaten up with a small quan- tity of water. Afterwards butter the inside of a stewpan, cover it with bread-crumbs, and put the cooked pumpkin into it. Place the pan over some hot cinders, put the lid on, and throw some embers on it. When the pudding is browned send it to table. Pumpkin Soup.—Take half or a quarter of a raoderatc-sized pumpkin, pare it, remove the seeds, and cut the pimipkin into thin slices. Put these into a stewpan, with as much water or milk as will cover them, and boil gently until they are reduced to pulp. Eub this through a fine sieve, mix with it a pinch of salt and a piece of butter the size of an egg, and stir it over the fire until it boils. Thin it with some boUing milk, which has been sweetened and flavoui ed with lemon-rind, cinnamon, or orange- flower water. It should be of the consistency of thick cream. Put toasted bread, cut into dice, at the bottom of the soup tureen. Moisten the bread-dice with a small quantity of the liquor, let them soak a little while, then poui- the lest of the soup over them, and serve very hot. Or, whisk two fresh eggs thoroughly in the tureen, and pour the soup in over them at the last moment. The liquor ought to have ceased from boiling for a minute or two before it is poured over the eggs. Time, two hours. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Pumpkin Soup (another way).—Slice a pumpkin, and stew it in butter untU tender, then reduce it to a puree. Add to this as much hot mUk, flavoured with cinnamon or lemon, as may be required to thin it for a soup. Throw in a little salt; and when properly heated, have ready a couple of eggs whisked to froth, put them into the tureen and pour the soup over. Serve immediately. Punch.—Punch is a beverage made of hot water, mixed with wine or spirits, sweetened and flavoured. It was very generally used in the last century, but is only to be met with now on extraordinary and very convivial occasions. It is always considered very insidious, but it rarely disagrees vdth those who partake of it in moderation. It is dangerous chiefly because it does not taste so strong as it is. In addition to the various kinds of punch given below, recipes for the following will be found under their respective headings:— Cambkidoe, Milk Regent's George the Fourth Roman, Iced Gin Royal GrRANITO, IcED ShERHET KOH Harrowoate Shrub (several Iced recipes) Imperial Shkuh Rum Mll-K USQUEBACH Norfolk Verder or Milk Orange Whiskey Oxford Wine Pine Apple YoKK^sHlRE. Puncll, To Make.—The grand secret, or rather art, of making genuine British punch consists in the preparation of a rich and delicate sherbet; this being accomplished, with the addition of the best Jamaica rum or French brandy, and pure hot or cold water, the mix- tiu-e may be too strong or too weak, but cannot possibly prove bad punch. In preparing sherbet for punch, the acids of cream of tartar, tamarinds, and vaiious other prepared vegetable acids, as well as that known as citric acid, are occasionally employed; but perhaps, after all, the juices of limes, lemons, and Seville oranges, expressed from the fresh fruits, when attainable, make the sort of sher- bet which seems most congenial with the nature of good British punch. Procure a couple of ripe, sound, and fresh lemons or limes, and a Seville orange ; rub off the yellow rind of one of the lemons with lumps of fine loaf sugar, putting each lump into the bowl as soon as it is saturated or clogged with the essence or grated rind ; then thinly pare the other lemon and Seville orange, and put these rinds also into the bowl, to which add plenty of sugar; pour a very small quantity of boiling water: and immediately squeeze the juice of the fruit, followed by a little more hot water. Count Rumford recommended that a table-spoonful of rice should be boiled in each quart of water; it imparts a softness almost equal to jeUy. Incorporate the whole well together with a punch ladle; and, putting a little of the sherbet thus composed, try its richness and flavour by the palate. If the fruit be good, a practised punch-maker will find little which requires to be regulated, and that little can soon be adjusted by su])ply- ing the aqueous, saccharine, or acid deficien- cies, so as to produce a luscious and rich- bodied sherbet, fit for the reception of the spirit which is to give it animation. If stram- wg should be found necessary, this is the period for using a lawn sieve, through which a little more hot water may afterwards be passed; and a few parings of the orange or lemon-rind are generally considered as having an agreeable appearance floating on the bowl. The sherbet being thus prepared, to make it into genuine British punch, spirit should be added, in the proportions of a bottle of the best Cognac brandy; the entire strength or weak- ness may be suited to the general inclination of the company for which it is prepared. The above quantity of fruit, with about three- quarters of a pound of sugar, will make sufii- cient sherbet for three quarts of punch. Pine-apple rum and capillaire syi-up, instead of part of the sugar, may be used, if convenient, with considerable advantage to the flavour; though it will prove excellent punch without either of these auxiliaries, or even Seville orange. The same sort of sherbet may, of course, be used for brandy-punch or runi-punch singly; but punch is seldom so made in England : most persons, indeed, mix equal parts of rum and brandy. Arrack-punch, however, is made with that spirit alone, and usually with a simple sherbet of Ume or lemon-juice, with sugar, as the flavour of the Seville orange inti^rfcrcs too much with the peculiar flavour of tlu' arrack, which proves so grateful to most tastes, tliough to many very unpleiisnnt. I'unch may bo im- mediately impregnated with the arrack flavour