( 718 ) RAT EAV active oporations, direct tho issue in addition to the above of wiiu,, spiritH, or any other article ot subsistence equivalent thereto. The stopimf^e for this foreign ration is one penny. When the families of soldiers accompany them abroad, thoy aro allowt^d tho following rations:—the wife (married under regiilaticm), half a ration ; each legitimate child undiu- mvm years of age, a quarter ration; from seven to fourteen, /i third of a ration. The full navy ration is made up of the fol- lowing articles: daily one pound and a quarter of ship biscuit, or one pound and a half of soft bread, one-eighth of a pint of spirit, two ounces of sugar, one ounce of chocolate, quarter of an ounce of tea, one pound of fresh meat, and half a pound of fresh vegetables, when these are procurable; otherwise, one pound of salt pork with a third of a pint of split peas, or one pound of salt beef with nine ounces of flour, three-quarters of an ounce of suet, and one ounce and a half of currants or raisins. On alternate salt beef days, two ounces of pre- served potatoes. Weekly—quarter of a pint of oatmeal, half an ounce of mustard, quarter of an ounce of pepper, and quarter of a pint of vinegar. Rattlesnake.—In some parts of North America the Indians broil rattlesnakes Like eels, and eat them. Their flesh is said to be white and delicate. When the rattlesnake is asleep they fix him to the ground, and by inducing him to fasten his fangs in a piece of leather, they pluck out the poison-fangs by pulling away the leather. They then in safety take off the skin, and broil the flesh. Ravigote Butter for Sauces.—Take two large table-spoonfuls of mixed tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and cress. Pick and wash them, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes; press the water from them in a cloth, put them on a plate, and mix with them a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, turn the whole into a basin, and put it in a cool place till wanted. If all these herbs cannot be procured, good ravigote butter may be made with tarragon and chervil only. Ravigote Sauce for Hare and Venison.—-Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and throw into it a moderate-sized onion and carrot chopped small, a tea-spoon- ful of scraped horseradish, a pinch of powdered thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little mace. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire till the onion is tender. Pour in a table-spoonful of vinegar and half a pint of stock, add a little brown thickening, and skim the sauce well. When it is smooth and of the consistency of custard, dis- solve a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly in it, rub it through a fine sieve, add pepper and salt if required, and serve in a tureen. Time, a few minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, lOd. SuflScient for six or eight persons. Ravigote Sauce for Meat and Poiiltry of Various Kinds.—Work an ounce ot flour smoothly into two ounces of butter. Add the strained juice of half a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Put the paste inUj a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, and stir until it is on the jjoint of boiling. Have ready in a separate saucepan a table-spoonful of tarragon viiu^gur, a table- spoonful of chilli vinegar, a table-spoonful of Worccister sauce, and a table-spoonful of tlie essence of anchovies. Boil this mixture for three or four minutes, mix it with the sauce which has been slightly cooled, and serve. Time, twenty minutes. " Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ravigote Sauce, Green, for Salads, &C.—Make a quarter of a pint of good white sauce or melted butter, stir into it two table- spoonfuls of ravigote butter [nee Itavigote Butter), and when this is well mixed in add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a few drops of anchovy. If the ravigote butter or the herbs necessarj- for making it are not at hand, take six table- spoonfuls of good white sauce made with cream or mUk, add a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar, a tea-spoonful of Reading or Worcester sauce, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little salt and pepper. Pick, scald, and mince a table-spoonful of green parsley-leaves, stir them into the sauce, and serve. Ravigote Sauce, Green (another way). —{See Green Ravigote Sauce). Ravioli, Italian.—Make a little firm smooth paste {see the next recipe). RoU it out as thin as thick paper, and sprinkle it with as little flour as possible. Make a forcemeat of fowl, veal, or fish, or take a godiveau; lay it in little heaps at equal distances on half the paste, and cover with the other half. With the fingers press the paste down between the little piles of forcemeat to make it adhere, then cut the whole into squares. Put these side by side in a dish, and boil them in bouillon for five minutes. Serve with grated cheese in a plate. Ravioli, Italian (another way).—Make some nicely-flavoured forcemeat as follows :— Take two ounces of the flesh of roast chicken or game weighed after it has been freed from skin and sinew. Mince it finely, and mix with it a table-spoonful of borage which has been scalded, pounded, and passed through a sieve; failing this, use a table-spoonful of spinach greening. Add an ounce of pounded ham, four cleaned and pounded anchovies, a shallot, three hard and two raw j-olks of eggs, a table-spoonful of grated Parmesan, and a little pepper and grated nut- meg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Roll out half a pound of nouiUes paste as thin as possible, cut it into rounds two inches in diameter with a fluted cutter, moisten the edges with water, and laj' a small ball of the force- meat upon each round. Fold the pastry over the forcemeat, and pinch it tightly together. Let the ravioli dry for a short time. Butter a saucepan, lay them in it, pour a little boiling stock over them, and let them simmer until the pastry is done enough. Drain them, lay them on a dish, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan over, and lay little pieces of butt(^r here and there upon them. Put them in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour, pour a little good