BAM ( 706 > RAM and Gruyfere, Chosliiio and Gloucester. Souk the crumb of a small roll in boiling milk for. ton minutes, strain it, and put it in a mortar with the gi-atod cheese, two ounces of fresh butter, the weU-beaton yolks of two eggs, and a little pepper and sjilt. Pound these ingredients well together, and when smooth add the well whisked whites of the eggs. Make some small paper trays, about an inch deep and three inches squai'e, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Serve quickly. A spoonful of light wine may be added to the batter if liked. Time to bake, a quai'ter of an hour. Ramakins (another way).—Put a sauce- pan ou the lii e with the third of a pint of milk, two ounces of fresh butter, and a pinch of salt. Add gi-adually two tea-spoonfuls of flour, beat the mixture till quite smooth, and stir it for five minutes, or until it is quite hot. Take it off the fire, and add two ounces of grated Parmesan, Gruyere, or Cheshire cheese, four well-beaten eggs, and a little pepper and pounded mace. Make some little paper trays about an inch deep and three inches square. Half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a gentle oven. The batter for the ramakins ought to be as thick as cream. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Ramakins, Dutch.—Grate two ounces of Cheshire cheese, and put it in a marble mortar with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a slice of fresh butter. One anchovy may be added if liked. Pound the mixtm-e till quite smooth. Toast a large slice of bread, butter it, and spread the mixture thickly upon it. Cut it into small squares. Bake these in a Dutch oven, or brown them by holding a salamander over them for two or three minutes, and serve very hot, neatly arranged on a folded napkin. Ramakins, German.—Take a pint of new milk, and simmer it in a saucepan, but do not let it boil; by degrees add three hand- fuls of floui-, stimng all the time. When the paste is smooth and without lumps, put in a httle salt, a piece of butter, and a quarter of a poimd of Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, or both mixed—not grated, but cut into small slices. Stir the whole on the fire till the preparation is perfectly mixed. "VNTien it is boiled enough— which may readily be ascertained, as the paste will then easily roll from the saucepan—take it off the fire, beat up three eggs, and stir them in, keeping the paste hot till the moment of serving. Butter a dish that will stand the fire, or a baking-tin, pour in the paste, and set it in a moderate oven. The cake will rise in ten minutes, like a souffle, and be of a fine yellow colour. Serve at once. Ramakins, Fried.—Slice thinly four ounces of rich cheese, and put it into a deli- cately clean saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter. Shake these over a gentle fire till they are melted, let them cool a minute or two, and atir in briskly the whites of three eggs beaten to a firm froth. Put some small squares of bread into tlie frying-pan with a little hot butter, spread the mixture upon the bread, and fry the ramakins for five minutes. Drain them X from the fat, hold a salamander or red-hot iron I over them till they are lightly browned, and serve verj'' hot. ; Ramakins Pastry.—Take any pieces of good pulf-paste left from making pies or tarts, or if these are not at hand make a small quantity of good puff paste. Grate half its weight in Parmesan cheese, roll the pastry out evenly, and sprinkle the cheese lightly over it. Fold it in tliree, and roll it out lightly: repeat this once or twice tmtil the pastry and cheese are well mixed. Stamp the ramakins out with a small pastry cutter of any shape that may be desired, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake in a brisk oven. Aa soon as they are done enough serve them quickly, neatly arranged on a hot napkin. Although Parmesan cheese is the best for this purpose, any dry white cheese may be used instead. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Ramakins, Pastry {see Pastry Ramakins). Ramakins with Ale or Wine.—Soak the crumb of a French roll in a cupful of boiling cream for a few minutes. Put it in a mortar with four ounces of grated Gloucester, four ounces of grated Cheshire cheese, and foui' ounces of good butter. Pound the mixture well, and beat it thoroughly with the beatei yolks of four eggs, and a wine-glassful of ale or wine. Half fill some small paper trays with the mixture, and bake the ramakins in a gentL^ oven, or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve very hot. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Ramazan Cakes (a Turkish recipe).— Take half a pound of rice-flour, and dilute i\. with two glasses of milk; pass the preparation through a sieve into a stewpan. Boil over a moderate fire, stirring all the time. Add sugar to taste, let it reduce for seven or eight minutes, then add a few drops of extract of roses or of jessamine, turn it out on a round baking-sheet, previously moistened with cold water. Let the preparation be nearly an inch in thickness, and smooth its surface. When it is cold, sprinkle it with fine sugar, and divide it into small cakes, lozenge-shaped, round or oblong, according to taste. Ramskin.—This is a sort of cake said to have been invented at Croxteth Hall, the seai of Lord Sefton, from which circumstance it is sometimes called " Sefton Fancy." Take grated cheese of some dry kind, such as Parmesan or the white hard English varieties, incorporated with dough as prepared for fine puflp paste; roll it out, cut it into shapes, glaze with white of egg, and bake for a quarter of an hour. It is usually eaten hot. Ra,mpion.—The root of this plant, which is white and spindle-shaped, used to be much in request for the table under the name of rampion or ramps. The plant is now little cultivated in Britain, but it is still commonly grown in France for the sake of the roots, which are used eithei boiled or as a salad, and of its yoixng leaves, which are also employed as a salad. The escu- lent roots are far more delicate than turnips or radishes; the seeds are ophthalmic. The root, either sliced together with its leaves in salads, or eaten as the radish, as well aa boiled