VEA ( 1065 ) VEA a table-spoonful of flour. Cleanse, peel, and slice three fresh truffles. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, put in the trufiles, and fry them gently for eight minutes. Pour over them half'a pint of good gravy and the minced vcul, and let them simmer as gently as possible for half an hour. Add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice and two table-spoonfuls of sherry; turn the preparation into a mould lined with DKicaroni, and steam as in the last recipe. Veal, Minced and Scalloped—To prepare this dish two or three scallop-shelLs are necessary, or small dishes or saucers may be used instead. Cleanse the shells, and butter them thickly. Mince the veal, and season in the usual way, then moisten and simmer it for three or four minutes in some good gravy drawn from the bones. Put a heaped table- spoonful of the mince into each shell. Cover it with seasoned bread-crumbs, lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top, and brown the surface in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Serve the preparation in the shells, which should be neatly placed on a hot dish covered Avith a folded napkin. Veal, Minced, Moulded.—Cut three- quarters of a pound of cold roast veal free from bone, skin, and fat into thin slices, and mince it finely with a quarter of a pound of lean ham and a table-spoonful of bread-crumbs. Add half a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped onion (this, however, may be omitted), a pinch of grated lemon-rind, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg. Butter a mould, put in the mince, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough turn it upon a hot dish, and pour round, but not over it, some good brown gravy made of the bones and trimmings of the veal. Garnish with sippets, and send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. Time to bake the preparation, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 4:d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal, Minced, with Fowl.—The white flesh of a boiled or roast fowl is very good mixed with minced veal. It should be seasoned and flavoured in the same way. A little lean ham is always an improvement to this dish. Veal, Minced, with Poached Eggs. —Cut the lean meat from the bones, and mince it finely with a small portion of lean ham, if it is to be had. Break up the bones, and stew them in as much water as Avill cover them, with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, three or four outer sticks of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Sim- mer the gravy for an hour or more, strain, skim it, thicken with white thickening or with flour and butter kneaded together, and add a little milk or cream. Stir the sauce over the fire till it is smooth and thick, pour half of it into another saucepan, and add the minced veal to the remainder. Let it remain on the iirc till the veal is thoroughly hot. It must not boil or the meat will be hard; care must bo taken, too, to keep it from burning. Pile the minco in the centre of a dish, Liy poached eggs upon it, and garnish it round with, suiiill roUs of thin fried bacon. Pour a little of the sauce which was kept aside over the mince, and sena the rest to table in a tureen. Time, one hour and a haK to stew the gravy. Veal, Minced, with Potatoes (a plain family dish) .—Take the remains of cold dressed veal. Free the lean part entirely from skin, bone, and fat, and mince it finely. Stew the bones and trimmings with as much cold water as will cover them to a strong gravj. Mix with the minced veal an equal quantity (or more if liked) of cold boiled potatoes. _ Put the mixture into a saucepan, moisten with a little of the gravy, and add pepper and salt as required. Dredge a little flour into the mince, dissolve a slice of fresh butter in it, and let it simmer over a moderate fire till it is thoroughly hot. Stir occasionally to keep it from burn- ing. Time, haK an hour to heat the mince. Veal, Neapolitan Turnovers of.— Cut half a pound of dressed lean veal and two ounces of dressed ham (fat and lean together), into thin slices, and miuce these finely. Dis- solve a piece of butter the size of a walaut in a saucepan, and fry in it a finely-minced shallot and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Drain these, and put them in a mortar with the minced meat, a table-spoonful of grated Par- mesan, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a salt-spoonful of white pepper. Poimd these ingredients thoroughly, and whilst poundiug add gradually a table-spoonful of strong stock which is a jelly when cold, a dessert-spoonful of sherry, a salt-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a well-beaten egg. Have ready some good pastry made for the purpose, and rolled to the thickness of a shilling. Cut this into pieces three inches square, and lay a spoonful of the forcemeat on one comer of each. Turn the comers over, moisten the edges with beaten egg, and press them together to make them stick. Put a quart of water into a saucepan, tlirow a tea- spoonful of salt into it, and let it boil. Drop the turnovers into it, and let them simmer for five minutes. Drain them, and put them into a dish. Have ready prepared some good stock made by simmering the bones and trimmings of the veal, with a carrot, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and as much water as will cover it. Strain this stock, skim the fat from it, and put half a pint of it into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of light wine, two table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, a slice of butter, a tea- spoonful of ketchup, a spoonful of mustard, and another of essence of anchovy. Stir the gravy over the fire for five minutes, pour it over the turnovers, sprinkle a little grated cheese on the surface, and bake the turnovers in a quick oven. Serve them on the dish in which they they were baked. The pastry should be made fully three hours before it is used, and kept in a cool place till wanted. It may be made by mixing half a salt-spoonful of salt with six ounces of baked flour, then rubbing into this one ounce of butter, and working into the mix- ture the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a wine-glassful of cold water. Veal, Week of.—The best end of the neck it: gen(!r:illy clioscn for roastinf^, and i&