VEA VEA ( 1051 ) them, and spread the forcemeat upon them half an inch thick. Brush the surface over with yolk of egg, and sprinkle bread-crumhs upon it. Place the pieces of bread thus prepared on a very hot dish, cover with a dish-cover, and serve immediately. Veal, Knuckle of, and Rice Soup- Take a knuckle of veal weighing about six pounds. Divide it (sawing through the bones) into half a dozen pieces, and put these in a stewpot with a carrot, a turnip, a small onion, half a dozen peppercorns, half a head of celery, half a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt, and f om- quarts of cold water. Bring it slowly to the boil, remove the scum carefuUy as it rises, and boil gently for three hours. Take out the meat, cut it into convenient-sized pieces, and put them aside for further use. Strain the soup. Put it into a clean saucepan with twelve ounces of rice already three-parts boiled, and boil for three-quarters of an hour longer. Add the veal, and serve very hot. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 5s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Veal, Knuckle of. Boiled.—A knuckle of veal is generally boiled, and forms a most wholesome and nourishing dish. It should be washed, then put into a stewpan, covered with cold water, boiled, then simmered gently and skimmed frequently for from two hours and a half to three hours, or tiU the gristle is quite tender, but not tiU the flesh will leave the bone. On account of its sinewy nature this joint needs to be well cooked. Plain melted butter or parslej'' and butter may be both poured over it and served with it. Egg sauce, onion sauce, and white sauce are also suitable accompani- ments. Bacon and greens or mashed turnips and potatoes are usually eaten with knuckle of veal, and the dish should be garnished with parsley lemon-rind, and forcemeat balls. Time, a knuckle of veal weighing about six pounds, two hours and a quarter. Probable cost, 7d. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of, Boiled (another way).—Cut the shank-bone from a knuckle of veal. This may bo stewed separately in a little water to make white sauce. Put the joint into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and when it begins to simmer throw in a tea-spoonful of salt to assist in throwing up the scum, skim care- fully, and let it boil gently tmtil done enough. Ser^-e on a hot dish, and with either white sauce or parsley and butter poured over it, and more in a tureen. Garnish with slices of lemon and veal forcemeat balls. A piece of boiled bacon, a pig's cheek, or slices of fried bacon should be sent to table with it. Time to boil, fully twenty minutes per pound from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 9id. or lOd. per pound. Sufficient, a joint weighing six pounds, for six or eight persons. Veal, Knuckle of. Boiled (another ^^y) •—As veal is insipid, it is a meat seldom boiled. The knuckle, however, being chiefly composed of cjirtilage, is occasionally boiled, and requires stowing to render it fit for eating. Tt is sometimes boiled with rice, and the gravy diawn from it ia flavoured with onions, a little mace, and a few peppercorns. With the broth half a pint of cream or milk may be mixed, and the whole—meat, rice, and broth—served to- gether in a tureen. If sent up separately, the veal wiU require a sauce of parsley and butter, as weU as the accompaniment of boUed bacon on a separate dish. Veal, Knuckle of. Carving. — The knuckle of veal is almost always boiled: it is esteemed for its fat and tendons about the knuckle. The best slices can be cut only from the thickest part of the knuckle. About this part is some delicious fat; and cutting in one direction two bones will be diA-ided. Between these fine marrowy fat is to be found. Veal, Knuckle of, Ragofit of.—Cut a knuckle of veal into small thick slices. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt on these, dredge flour upon them, and fry them in butter tiU they are brightly browned on both sides. Drain them, put them in a saucepan, and barely cover them with boiling stock or water. Throw in a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and a few outer sticks of celery. Let the liquor boil up, remove the scum as it rises, then draw the saucepan to the side and let its contents simmer very gently till the veal is tender. Thicken the gravy with ground rice, add a table-spoon- ful of good store sauce, and serve. A few force- meat balls may be added if liked. By waj' of variety, a pint of freshly-shelled young gTeen peas may be stewed separately and served with the veal. Dressed veal may be cut into small pieces and stewed according to this recipe in a little of the liquor in which it was boiled mixed with milk. Whole rice or peas may be stewed with it. Time to simmer the veal, about two hours. Probable cost, knuckle of veal, 7d. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of, Soup.—Take a knuckle of veal weighing about six pounds, and break the bone in three or four places. Put half a pound of bacon in slices half an inch thick at the bottom of a stewpan, place the meat on this, and add a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a few sticks of celery, two large onions with three cloves stuck in them, and a tea-spoonful of pepper- corns. Barely cover the ingredients with cold water, let the liquor boil, skim it, then draw the sa.ucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently tiU the veal is quite tender. Take out the meat, strain the soup, and let it stand tiU cold. Before serving, remove the cake of fat from the top. If there is too much soup to use at once, a little may be served at a time, and it may be thickened one day with vermicelli, another day with macaroni, and a third day with rice. The veal may be cut up into neat pieces and served with peas as a ragout {see Veal, Knuckle of, Ragout of), or, if preferred, it may be served in the soup. Time, four hours to simmer the soup. Probable cost knuckle of veal, 7d. per pound. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Veal, Knuckle of. Stewed with Green Peas.—Take a small knuckle of veal. Molt a slice of fresh butter in a frsang- pan, and put into it two onions sliced and the knuckle of veal whole. Turn the meat about