( 646 ) POU POU that a sick person will eat the whole at one time, cut off as much as is required for present use, and put the rest aside. As much as it is thought will be used may be cut off as it is wanted, and warmed up in two or three ways, as follows :—Wrap the joint in oiled paper, lay it on a hot giidii'on, and warm it gently over a clear fire. Serve it with a little light gravy for sauce. Or broil it without the paper. Or put it in a stewpan, barely cover with a little cold broth, and heat it very gently over a moderate fire. Or put an ounce of Carolina rice into a stewpan with half a pint of stock, and let it stnmier gently until the rice is quite tender and the liquid absorbed. If it is very drj', put two more spoonfuls of stock with it, lay the piece of bird upon the rice, and let it remain a few minutes until it is quite warm. Serve the rice, fowl, and gravy together. When an invahd finds it difficult to masticate food, the fowl may be prepared as follows:—Pick the meat from a cold roast or boiled chicken, and carefully remove every little piece of skin, gristle, or sinew. Mince finely, and, if liked, season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Generally speaking, however, it is best to defer seasoning the food which is intended for the sick, as their fancies vary so much, and they very often exceedingly dislike flavoured dishes. Put the bones and trimmings of the bird into a stewpan, with a bunch of parsley and a little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently imtil the gravy is considerably reduced. When the mince is wanted, put a little of it into a clean stewpan, strain a small quantity of gravy over it, thicken it or not, according to taste, with a little flour and butter, let it get quite hot, and serve immediately. Poultry, Garnish for {see Garnish for Poultry, Game, &c.). Poultrv, Garnish for (another way).- See Quenelles as a Garnish for Poultry. Poultry, Gravy for {see Gravy, Beef, for Poultiy and Game). Poultry, Potato Cakes to Serve with {see Potato Cakes, German, to serve with Game or Poultiy). Poultry, Potted.—Poultry may either be potted whole or cut into neat joints and potted, or the flesh may be picked from the meat and pounded before it is put into the jars. In any case the meat must be thickly covered with butter, or it will not keep. When the meat is not pounded, the joints must be packed together as closely as possible, or they will require a good deal of butter. Birds which are boned and stuft'ed are excellent potted: they must be quite fresh, must be carefully cleaned, nicely seasoned, baked, and quite cold before they are put into the jars, and the butter must be clarified before it is poured over them. If the meat is to be kept, the jar should be covered with bladder and tied down closely. Potted chicken is improved by pounding a little fat and lean ham with the meat. Poultry Prepared for Cooking.— Pluck off the fofithors of poultry as soon as possible after thoy urg kiUed. Whep t}iqy be- I come cold it is difficult to draw out the quills without tearing the skin, and so spoiling the look of the birds. The down that remains after the feathers are removed is afterwards to be singed off with lighted paper. In the case of some birds, one must draw out the sinews of the leg: this is done by binding the joint close to the claw, and fastening the claw in a vice; pull the bird then strongly, and the sinews wiU give way. The next operation is to empty the crop. Cut a slit in the back of the neck, so as to open into the crop. Remove the contents through this slit. Open the vent, and clean out the entrails. Take care not to break the gall- bladder ; if it is not removed carefully its contents will give a bitterness to the flavour of the liver which washing wiU hardly remove. When the bird is drawn, separate the liver and gizzard from the rest of the entrails, and put them to be cleansed in cold water. Cut off the necks of fowls, ducks, or geese, close to the body. Before doing this, push up the skin that hangs loosely upon the neck above the part at which it is to be cut off. After cutting off the neck, draw the skin down, and wrap it over the end of the neck to hide it from view. Before fastening it down, pour cold water through the body of the fowl. Then break the two bones which lead to the pinions. Now truss the bird. For roasting fowls, trussing is accomplished by cutting off the first joint only of the legs, and by turning them down close to the sides towards the vent, and fastening them by a game-skewer passed from one to the other. Pass another slight skewer through the joint of one wing, into the body, and through to the opposite wing. Place the liver and gizzard, one under each wing. To truss fowls for boiUng, cut off the whole of the leg, except the thigh, the end bones of which tuck into the apron. Set up the breast to look plrunp; place the wings with the liver and gizzard as if for roasting. Tie the whole in proper form with a slight string, which before serving is to be cut and removed. To truss a goose, cut off the legs, feet, and pinions. These, with the neck, head, liver, and gizzaid, are what are called giblets. The head of a turkey is not cut off in trussing, but twisted round one of the wings. Poultry, Ragoiit of.—This recipe may be followed with almost any kind of poultry or game. Partially roast the bird in the usual way. When it is half dressed, take it down, and, if liked, divide it into joints, or it may be stewed whole. Put it into a stewpan with any bones or trimmings that may be at hand, a large onion stuck with two cloves, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon rolled, half a tea-spoonful of allspice, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, as much stock—or, failing this, water-as will cover the ingredients, and a little salt if required. Simmer all very gently till the bird is done enough, then pour oft" the liquor, and keep the bird hot. Strain the gravy, and skim the fat from it. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and mix smoothly with it as much flour as will make it into a paste, add gradually the hot liquor, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a glass of port or clftrQt. J^et; it boil' ft qiiftutg Qr two. Put tfe^