( 696 ) POl POL Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And twice with vinegar procured from town ; The flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs; Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, in the flavoured compound toss A magic tea-spoon of anchovy sauce. Oh, great and glorious! Oh, herbaceous meat! 'Twould tempt the dying anchoret to eat; Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul. And dip his finger in the salad-bowl. Then, though green turtle fail, though venison's tough. And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, Serenely full, the epicure may say, 'Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to- day.' " Poivrade Sauce (a very good sharp sauce).—Dissolve two ounces of butter over a gentle fire, and put with it a small slice .of ham cut into dice, a scraped carrot, a turnip, an onion, a shallot, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, a small sprig of thyme, a stick of celery cut small, and twenty peppercorns. Stir these in- gredients over the fire till they are nicely browned, then add gradually a wine-glassful of vinegar, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a glass of port or sherry, a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, and half a pint of good brown sauce. Simmer gently by the side of the fire, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain, and serve hot. When thick brown sauce is not at hand, dissolve one ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix an ounce of flour smoothly with it, and stir quickly over a slow fixe for three or foiir minutes, or until it is nicely browned. Moisten gradually with a little broth, or failing this, water, until the sauce is of the consistency of thick cream. Boil it a minute or two, and it is ready for use. The quantity of vinegar used in this recipe may be increased or diminished, according to taste. Time, half an hour to simmer the sauce. Pro- bable cost, Is. for this quantity. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Poivrade Sauce (another way).—Take a slice of lean ham, and cut it into dice. Put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and add a carrot, a turnip, a shaUot, and two young onions, all finely sliced, together with a blade of mace and six or eight peppercorns. Stir these over a gentle fire imtil they are slightly browned, then add very gradually four table-spoonfuls of vinegar, three table-spoonfuls of port, a lump of sugar, and a quarter of a pint of good brown sauce. Simmer all gently together until the sauce is smooth, thick, and nicoly flavoured, then strain, and serve imme- diately. When brown sauce is not at hand it may be easily made by mixing over a gentle fire equal proportions of butter and flour, stir- ring the mixture constantly until it is slightly browned, and then moistening it with boiling stock or even water. Time to boU the sauce, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the port. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poivrade Sauce, Easily made.—Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan with two onions, a shallot, a carrot, a turnip cut into dice, two cloves, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thjTne. Stir these ingredients constantly over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned, then dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour over them, and add a little pepper and salt, a glass of claret, half a glass of vinegar, and a glass of water. Boil all gently for half an hour. Skim, strain, and serve. Time, ten minutes to fry the vegetables. Sufficient for foiir or five persons. Probable cost, 5d., exclusive of the wine. Polenta.—Indian corn-flour, which is very commonly used in Italy, is sent to various parts from that country, and sold under the name of polenta. In taste it much resembles macaroni, for which it is often used as a substitute. Semolina is frequently and advantageously used for the preparations which go by the name of polenta. Polenta (a I'ltalienne).—^When made with Indian meal, put a quart of milk into a sauce- pan with a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it boU quickly, then drop into it very gradually as much Indian meal as will make it quite thick, stirring briskly all the time. Let it boil until quite smooth, then turn the polenta into a buttered mould, and mix with it an ounce of grated Parmesan. Stir briskly, and bake for a quarter of an hour. The polenta may be turned out or not. When made with semolina, boil a quart of milk with half a tea-spoonful of salt. Drop into it about a quarter of a pound of semolina, stirring briskly all the time, and let it boil gently for ten minutes. Be very careful to prevent it burning. When quite thick, pour into a plain mould, and set it in a cool place to stiffen. Cut it into slices three- quarters of an inch thick. Butter a fresh plain mould. Pour into it a small quantity of clari- fied butter, and then a layer of grated Par- mesan. Place on this a layer of slices of paste, and another layer of cheese. Moisten the mixture with a few drops of butter, and repeat tmtU the.paste is used, and the dish is almost full. Place a thick layer of the cheese at the top, and a little more clarified butter, then bake the preparation in a moderate oven until it is brightly browned. Turn it upon a hot dish, and serve. A little grated cheese is sometimes sent to table on a dish with the polenta, or a little brown gravy is poured round it, but it requires neither. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Polenta, Italian {see Italian Polenta). Polenta Pudding, Sweet.—Boil the milk and the polenta as in the last recipe. When the mixture is quite smooth and thick, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, four ounces of stoned raisins, an ounce of candied peel finely shred, half a nutmeg grated, and an ounce of butter. When the ingredients are woU mixed, pour the preparation into a buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Turn the pudding out before serving. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons.