( 692 ) first. Cover the jars in the usual way, and Btoro in a cool place. If liked, half a pint of claret may be put with each pint of vinegar. These plums are excellent served with Roust Mutton. Plums, Magnum Bonum Utc Matrnuui BonumsJ. ° PLVilS. 1. Yellouj Magnum Bonum. 2. Golden Drop. 3. &)-eengage. Plums, Magnum Bonum, Pre- served.—Mag-nmn bonum and other fine plums may be boiled into a jam in the usual way, or preserved whole like apricots, or as follows:— Take fine ripe, sound fruit. Pare them, and in order to do this more easily throw them into boiling water for a minute. If they are not fully ripe, they will need to simmer gently for two or three nunutes. Take a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Dissolve in a little water, skim carefully, and boil imtil it is almost candy height. Throw in the plums, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Lift them out carefully, strain the syrup over them, and let them He for two days. I3oil them again untU. they look quite clear, put them into jars, cover with the syrup, tie the jars up, and store in a cool, dry place. Time, three days. Boil the plums the last time about ten minutes. Plums, Orange, To Preserve (see Orange Plums). Plums, Orleans, To Bottle for Win- ter Use (see Orleans Plums, to Bottle for Winter Use). Plums Pickled like Olives.— Take some hard green plums which have been gathered before the stone was formed. Boil as much vinegar as will entirely cover them with a table-spoonful of salt and half an ounce of mustard-seed to each pint of the liquid. Pour it hot over the fruit. Let it stand imtil the next day, then drain it off, boil again, and repeat the performance. When the plums are quite cold, put them into bottles, cover with vinegar, tie up securely, and store in a cool, dry place. Plums Pickled like Olives (another yray).—Boil together some dill and fennol-seed in a mixture of white-wine vinegar and water. Put the plums into this while hot, let them simmer a little, set them on one side to cool, and then preserve in pots. ' Plums, Preserved Dry.—Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put them into a sj rup made with half the weight of the fruit in sugar boiled with as much water as will dissolve it. Keep the plums covered with the syrup, and let them simmer very gently until they are tender without losing their shape. Lift the pan oif the fire, and let the fruit stand in the syrup until the next dsiy. Strain the syrup, boil it up with more sugar, so that there may be an equal weight of sugar and fruit, and let it boil almost to candy. Pour it out, and let it get cold. Put it back into the pan with the fruit. Let it simmer gently for a few minutes until the plums are quite soft. Let them remain in the syrup for three days, drain them, and spread them singly on dishes to dry. Time, five days. Or, put the plums whole into a syrup made with their weight in sugar and as much water as wiU dissolve the sugar. Let them boil gently for about twenty minutes, then let them remain in the S)TTip until the juice flows freely, and boil them a second time. Lift out the plums carefully, one by one, put them into deep jars, and pour the s}Tup over them. Leave them until the next day, drain them, and spread them singly on dishes to dry. Or, take plums which are fully grown but not ripe; prick them, put them into a pan of cold water, and let them remain until it is on the point of boiling. Let them cool, and drain them in a sieve. Take as many pounds of sugar as there are of fruit, and boil it to a strong syrup with as much water as will dissolve it. Put the plums in, and boil them gently for twenty minutes. The next day boil them again untU the sugar is ready to candy. Pour the plums into deep jars, and let them stand all night in a cool oven. Let them get cold, then lift them out, and spread them singly on dishes to dry. Plums, Preserved, for Making Pies.—Divide the plums, and take out the stones. Put them into a deep jar, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil gently until the juice flows freely. Then mth each poimd of the fruit put an ounce of crushed loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved by the hot juice, pour the whole into ^^nde-mouthed glass bottles. Cover the tops closely, and store in a cool place. Plums preserved in this way will keep for a short time only. Time, about an hour. Plums, Quiddamy of.—Take a pound of plums and remove thc stones. Boil the fruit, with an equal quantity of loaf sugar, in a quart of plum-juice; keep boiling till the contents of the pan are of the consistency of jelly; then pour into pots, and cover in the usual way. Plums, Varieties of.—There are said to be nearly 300 varieties of plums. Tlic dam- son or Damascene plum takes its name from Damascus, where it grows in great quanlilios, and from whence it was introduced into Italy about 114 u.c. The Orleans plum is from