ton ( 1157 ) will be required into a bowl, and add a pinch of Siilt. Stir in gradually as much milk as wiU mako a stiff batter, and beat the mixture vigorously till it is perfectly smooth and light. Whisk the eggs sepai-ately, and add thorn to the batter. Place the pudding-tin under the roadting joint, and leave it till it is thoroughly hot and well greased with the di-ippings from the joint. Pour the batter into it to the thick- ness of the third of an inch, and bake the pudding before the fire under the joint. Tui-n the pan round and round, that the puddiag may be equally and lightly browned on every side. Cut it in thi-ee-LQch squares; take these up carefully with a slice, place them on a separate dish which has been made very hot, and send them immediately to table, to be eaten with the meat and the gravy. If the joint is to be baked under the roast, the latter may be placed on a stand in the dripping-tin, the pud- ding, however, will not be so light as if baked before the fire. Out of Yorkshire, what is called Yorkshire pudding is made an inch thick or more, and after it is browned upon one side, it is cut into squares and turned over, that it may be browned upon the other. This is quite a different thing from the true Yorkshire pudding, which is made very thin, and browned on the uppermost side only. The batter for this pudding will be much better if made two, three, or even four hours before it is wanted. Cold Yorkshire pudding may be heated in a Dutch oven before the fire. Time to bake the pudding, varying with the kind of range used: with an old-fashioned range, which throws out a good deal of heat in front, the pudding will be baked in from three- quarters to one hour; when a kitchener is used, the pudding will need to be finished off in the oven. It must not, however, be allowed to get dry. If made thick, and browned on both sides, the pudding wiU need at least an hour and a half. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient, a pudding made with four table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, a pinch of salt, and a pint of milk, for five or six persons. Yorkshire Pudding, Beef with {see Beef with Yorkshire Puddiag). Yorkshire Punch,—Rub some large lumps of sugar upon four lemons and one Seville orange until all the yellow part is taken off. Weigh the sugar, and add as much more as will make up its weight to a pound and a quarter. Put the sugar into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of six lemons and three Seville oranges. Add a pint of liquid calf's-foot jeUy, and stir in gradually two quarts of boiling water. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and put the bowl containing them by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Strain the mix- ture, put with it a bottle of orange or lemon shrub, and add half a pint of rum, and half a pint of brandy. If the trouble of rubbing the sugar upon the lemons and orange is objected to, the sugar may be rubbed upon a portion of the lemon, and the thin rind of the rest soaked in the jelly and the strained juice imtil the flavour is extracted. The flavour of the punch thus made will not quite equal that nuido by rubbing the sugar with lemon. Yorkshire Spice Cake (sometimes called Yule Cake).—These cakes are made in large quantities in Yorkshire families at Christmas time. They are freely offered to strangers and presented to friends, and are frequently eaten with cheese instead of bread. Recipes for them will be found under the headings: Yeast Cake, Excellent; Annie's Rich Cake; Aunt Edward's Christmas Cake. Another is given below. Put eight poxinds of flour into a bowl, and mix a table-spoonful of salt with it; then rub into it a pound and a half of butter, and two pounds of lard. Scoop a hole in the centre of the bread without touclung the bottom, and pour in half a pint of fresh sweet brewer's yeast mixed with water. Stir flour into the yeast tiU it is like batter, sprinkle flour over the top, and set the bowl in a warm place. When the yeast rises in bubbles through the flour, knead the dough thoroughly as for com- mon bread, and let it rise tiU it is light. When risen, work in with it six pounds of currants, picked and dried thoroughly, three pounds of raw sugar, some grated nutmeg, and eight weU- beaten eggs. Divide it into loaves of various sizes, put these into tins which they will half fill, lined with buttered paper, and bake the cakes in a weU-heated oven. The yeast must on no account be bitter. Time to bake the cakes, according to size. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Yorkshire Tea-cakes.—A hospitable Yorkshire housewife would consider her tea- table was barely spread if it were not liberally supplied with these delicious cakes, constant relays of which should be served steaming hot. Put two pounds of good flour into a bowl; scoop a hole in the centre, but do not touch the bottom of the bowl, and pour into the hoUow thus made a little less than an ounce of German yeast which has been dissolved in a tea-cupful of lukewarm milk. Add to this yeast two well- beaten eggs and six ounces of butter which has been dissolved in half a tea-cupful of hot water. The water, when added to the batter, ought to be a little more than new-milk-warm. Draw a little of the flour from the side of the bowl into the liquor till it is of the consistency of very thick cream, sprinkle a little flour upon it to cover the surface, and leave it in a warm place to rise. In about an hour, when the bubbles of yeast show themselves through the flour, knead the dough thoroughly, addirig as much more lukewarm mUk as is necessary for the purpose. The tea-cakes will require about a pint of milk altogether. Gash the sur- face of the dough two or three times across with a knife, throw a warm towel over it, and leave it to rise. When it is very light (that is when the surface cracks, which it will do in an hour or more), divide it into ten portions of equal size. Roll these lightly into cakes four inches in diameter, and put them on a baking- tin. Prick them with a fork and let them rise before the fire for ten minutes. Put them into a moderately-heated oven ; they must not be baked hard. When they are to be served, either cut them into halves, toast them, and butter liberally, or make them hot in the oven, divide them, and butter thorn. Serve very hot. These tea-cakes will bo very good