Take ten pounds of the shin of beef, and two pounds of the neck, and boil these in three giillons of water for five hours. Strain the liquor, and skim carefully. Put it back into the saucepan, with three pounds of stoned I'ai- sins, tlu-ee pounds of stewed prunes, and two pounds of currants, and let the fruit boil gently for an houi-. Take the crumb of a twopenny loaf, dip it into the liquid, and beat it smoothly •with a fork. Mix with it the pulped prunes, an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace. Put thip mixture into the soup to thicken it, and boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time to keep the soup from burning. Add sufficient s^igar to suit the taste, a little salt, a quart of claret, and half a pint of sack. Cut some white bread into dice. Lay it in a soup tureen, put a piece of the meat ower it, pour in the broth, and serve. Plum Pudding, Apple {see Apple Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Baked.—Shred finely half a pound of beef suet. Mix with it a salt- spoonful of salt, a pound of flour, a heaped tea-spoonful of baking-powder, half a poxmd of picked and dried currants, half a pound of stoned raisins, one ounce of candied peel cut into thin strips, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Moisten them with an egg beaten up with as much milk as will make a thick batter. Pour this into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn the pudding out before serving, and strew powdered sugar thickly over it before sending it to table. For a plain pudding, the egg and half the fruit may be omitted. Time to bake, from an hour and a half to two hours. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Baked, without Suet.—Grate finely half a pound of the crumb of a stale loaf. Pour over it half a pint of boiling milk, and beat into it whilst warm four ounces of butter. Let it stand until cold, then add a quarter of a pound of picked currants, a quarter of a pound of chopped raisins, three ounces of moist sugar, an ounce and a halB of candied peel cut into shreds, half a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Beat all these ingredients smoothly together; add two weU-beaten eggs and a table-spoonful of brandy if liked. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and bake in a weU-hesited oven. Turn the pudding out before serving, and sift powdered sugar thickly over it. This pudding can be steamed instead of baked. When this is done, the basin which contains it should be put into a saucepan upon a plate which has been turned upside down. Boiling water, three inches deep, should be poured round it, and this should be kept boiling antil the pudding is done enough. It is very good cold. Time to bake or steam, an hour and a quarter. Proliablo cost. Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Christmas {see Christ- mas Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Cottage {see Cottage Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Economical.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely; mix with it three-quarters of a pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, half a pound of currants, half a pound of moist sugar, the peel of a lemon finely shred, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly, and stir in with them six weU-beaten eggs and as much milk as is re- quired to make a stiff paste. Put the pudding into a floured cloth, and tie it up, not too tightly, but leaving room for it to sweU. Put it into a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly for five hours. Do not turn it out of the cloth until just before it is to be served. Send sweet sauce to table in a tureen. If pre- ferred, three eggs only may be used, and three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Excellent.—Take six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and mix with them a pound of flour, a pound of finely- shred beef suet, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a pound of raw sugar, three-quarters of a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, three-quarters of a pound of currants, two ounces each of candied lemon, orange, and citron cut into shreds, a quarter of a poimd of apples pared, cored, and chopped, half an ounce of mixed spice consist- ing of pounded cloves, cinnamon, and grated nutmeg, and half a tea-spoonful of finely- minced lemon-rind. Mix these ingredients tho- roughly, then make the mixture into a stiff batter by adding to it five eggs beaten up with half a pint of milk and a glass of brandy. Turn the pudding either into a cloth or a mould; if the latter is used, it must be filled quite full, and covered with a cloth. Put the pudding into boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. Sift powdered sugar over the pudding before serving it, and send brandy sauce or whip sauce to table in a tureen. Time to boil, five hours. Probable cost, 3s. Suf- ficient for seven or eight persons. Plum Pudding, Family.—Beat four eggs thoroughly. Mix with them half a pint of new milk and a tea-spoonftd of salt. Then stir in half a pound of beef suet finely shred, a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, four ounces of cur- rants picked and dried, four ounces of brown sugar, a grated nutmeg, and an ovmce of candied peel cut into strips. Stir these ingredients well together, and pour in another half-pint of milk; then add equal quantities of grated crumb-of- bread and flour, to make a stiff paste. Half an ounce of almonds blanched and chopped small, a little more candied peel, and a few more currants, may be added if liked, but if the pudding is too rich it will not be so likely to turn out properly. It may be boiled either in a cloth or in a mould. In a cloth it will be more quickly cooked; it will look better if boiled in a mould. A glassful of brandy and a dessert-spoonful of noyau stirred into the sauce greatly improves this pudding. Time to