( 922 ) mints, aorrel, budb of gooueborrieH, roses, bar- berrios, flowors of bui-ago, bugloss, cowpagles, and ai'chiingol." Spring Soup.—Tako a mixture of any or all kinds of early vogutables, such as young turnips and carrots, spring onions, mustard and cross, cauliflowora, lettuce, green peas, aspara- gus-tops, &c. A very small bunch of i)arsley and a little chervil, and three or four leaves of sorrel finely shred may be added if liked. Half a pound of mixed vegetables will bo sufficient for a quart of stock. With small vegetable-scoops cut the vegetables into fancy shapes of about the same size, or into thin shreds about an inch long. Throw those into boiling water, and let them remain for a minute or two. Drain them, and put them into another saucepan with as much boiling clear stock (see Clear Soup, Excellent) as is required. Let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are done enough. Taste in order to ascertain whether further seasoning is required, and serve very hot. In boiling the vegetables, it should be remembered that some will need to boil longer than others, and therefore they must not all be put in together. Time, altogether, about an hour and a half. Sufficient, a quart of soup for five or six persons. Probable cost, varying with the ingredients. Spring Soup, Early.—Take a knuckle of veal chopped in pieces, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a quart of whole white peas, two or three turnips, a leek, and a little celery. Cut these into small pieces, and put to them four quarts of soft water. Boil till the meat has parted with all its juices and the peas have become soft. Then take out the meat and vegetabl^is, and pulp the peas through a sieve. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Take a bunch of asparagus cut small to re- semble green-peas, the hearts of two or three cabbage-lettuces, and some green mint chopped fine. Stew these in the soup till the vege- tables become tender, taking care to keep them of a good colour and not to permit them to remain too long upon the fire. Shotdd the soup prove too thick, put to it some good broth, and if too thin, add a little flour and water. Should it not appear sufficiently green, pound a handful of spinach, and put the juice, when properly strained, into the soup, but it must not be boiled, for that would destroy the green colour of the spinach. Observe that when as- paragus is meant to resemble green peas, care must be taken not to subject it to too much heat, it being a vegetable that soon becomes soft and loses its colour. A considerable degree of attention is required on the part of the cook, in regard to the management of the asparagus. Spring Soup (M. Ude's recipe).—Take carrots, turnips, heads of celery, and small onions cut into the shape of olives; blanch them in winter, but in summer fry them with a little butter, and put them to boU in clear broth with a little sugar. Put the soup in the comer of the stove to skim away all the butter. Have ready the green tops of aspas^agus, and French beans cut into lozenges which have been boiled separately in water very green ; put them into the soup when you send it up. with slices of crust of bread cut the size of a penny and soaked separately in a little broth; if you have any peas, y(,u" may put in some hkewise to boU with the soup. Spring Soup of Early Cabbages.- iuku tlie iKjurts of two wliite spriiig culjbages well washed, place tliem for a few ininuteB m boiling water; take out the cabbages, put them into cold water, drain th(;m, cut lliem in quarters and remove the stalks, tie ea<;li quarter with a piece of thread, put them in some savoury stock, simmer till done enough, lay them in a tureen, and pour the soup over them. Spring Soup of Hop-tops.—Early in spring gather some hop-tops; tie them up in small bundles, let them soak in fresh water, and boil them in some good stock slightly thickened with lentils or peas and flavoured with onions, herbs, pepper, and salt. Simmer the vegetables till tender; then place some sippets in a tureen, lay the bundles of hop-tops upon them, and pour the potage over all. Spring Soup, Thick.—Soak half a pint of green spht peas, then boil them till tender in as much stock made from bones as will cover them, and with them two young carrots and two turnips, five or six spring onions, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a small leek, and a few outer sticks of celery, if these can be had. When the peas and vegetables are quite tender, rub them through a sieve. Add additional stock to make the puree as thick as custard ; and if it is not a good colour, add spinach-juice to make it green (see Spinach Greening). Cut 'a small bunch of asparagus- tops into the shape of peas. Boil these sepa- rately in a little water with the heart of a finety-shred young cabbage, and three or four leaves of mint. Be careful to keep these vege- tables a good colour. A few minutes before the soup is to be served throw them into it. If they can be procured, freshly-picked peas can be used instead of the dried spht peas. Time to boil the soup, one and a half to two hours. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. BRUSSKLS SPROtTTS. Sprouts, Brussels (fcc Brussels Sprouts).