( 043 ) PHE PHE weU-hung pheasants. Pluck, draw, and singe thorn, and cut them into neat joints, lake out the bones carefully, and shape the joints into cutlets; flatten these with the cutlet- bat, season rather highly, and cover them thickly with egg and linely-grated bread- crumbs. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a carrot, a tm-nip, an onion, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a little pepper and salt, and as much water a,s will cover them. Let them stew slowly, until the flavour of the herbs, &c., is drawn out, tlieri thicken the gravy, and strain it. Fry the cutlets in a saute pan with butter until they are brightly browned all over. Serve on a hot dish with one of the small bones stuck into each cutlet. The gravy must be made hot, and poured rovmd them. Time to fry the cutlets, ten or twelve minutes. Probable cost of pheasants, 38. each when in full season. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pheasant, Fillets of.—Take a well-hung yoimg pheasant. Pluck, draw, and singe it, and then braise the fillets. To do this, cut off the flesh from the breast and wiAg in one slice from each side; this will give two large fillets; and to get three fillets of unifoi-m size, flatten the minion or smaller fillets, which consist of the strips of flesh which lie imder the wings, with the flesh of the merry- thought, and any little pieces that can be lifted oft". Dip the fillets into beaten egg, and then into rather highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Fry thin slices of bread of the same size as the fillets in hot fat, until they are lightly browned; drain and dry them. Fry the fillets also, and when they are equally and brightly browned, serve upon the pieces of toast on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured round them. To make the gravy, stew the bones and trim- mings of the pheasant in half a pint of water, with an inch or two of lemon-rind, a pinch of salt, and half a dozen peppercorns. When they have simmered for half an hour or more, strain the graN-y, skim carefully, and thicken with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening. Add a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, or a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, if either are hked; make the sauce hot, and serve. Time, three-quartei-s of an hour to stew the sauce, ten or twelve minutes to fry the fiUets. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each when in full season. Pheasant, Flavour of.—The pheasant 18 sometimes domesticated for the table, but the flavour of the bird is decidedly best when in a natural wild state. M. Ude says, " It is not often that pheasants are met with possessing that exquisite taste which is acquired only by long keeping, as the damp of this climate prevents their being kept so long as they are in other countries. The hens in general are most deli- cate. The cocks show their age by their spurs. They are only fit to be eaten when the blood begins to run from the bill, which is commonly SIX days or a week after they have been killed. The flesh of the pheasant is white, teader, and has a good flavour, if you keep it long enough; if not, it has no more than a common hen or fowl." Pheasant, Forcemeat for {see Force- meat for Pheasant). Pheasant, Hashed.—Cut the remains of one or two cold roast pheasants into neat joints, put them into a cool place, and cover them over until they are wanted. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a stewpan, mix half an ounce of flour smoothly with it, and stir the mixture quickly over a gentle fire, until it is lightly coloured. Pour over it half a pint of stock or water, and add a glass of claret, a finely-minced, onion, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer the sauce gently by the side of the fire until it is thick enough to coat the spoon, then strain it, and put in the pieces of pheasant. Let these simmer for a minute or two until they are quite hot, but the sauce must not boil after the game is added. Serve the pheasant on a hot dish, with the hot gravy poured over it. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine and cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Mock.—When only one pheasant can be obtained, a fine young fowl which has been kept three or four days may be trussed and roasted with it. Few people will discover that the two birds served on the same dish are not of the same species. Pheasant Pie.—Take six ounces of the cushion of veal, free it carefully from skin and gristle, and mince it finely. Mix with it six ounces of fat oacon also finely minced, six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, three ounces of chopped beef suet, and one ounce of grated lean ham. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind the forcemeat together with yolk of egg. The addition of thiee or four chopped mushrooms will be an improvement. Pluck and clean a well-hung pheasant. Cut off its head, and divide it in two lengthwise. Bone the bird carefully, and fry the halves in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain them well, and put about half the forcemeat into them, then put them close together in their original position. Line a pie-mould, or form a case, according to the directions already given {see Paste for liaised Pies). Lay slices of fat bacon at the bottom, and spread half of the remaining forcemeat on them. Put in the pheasant, the remainder of the forcemeat, and a slice of fat bacon over all. Lay on the lid, make a hole in the centre, and bake in a brisk oven. If there is any danger of the pie burning, lay a paper upon it. In order to ascertain when it is done enough, push a trussing-needle through the hole in the centre; if it penetrates easily, the pie is sufficiently cooked. This pie, if preferred, may be baked in a dish, and the pheasant may be jointed before it is put in. Half an hour after it is taken out of the oven pour into it, through the hole in the centre, a quarter of a pint of strong gravy made from the liver. Time to .bake, two hours, or more. Probable cost, 68. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Pheasant, Potted.—Pluck, draw, and singe a well-hung pheasant. Cut off its head.