BOA BOA ( 761 ) will bo wanted—supposing there are a dozen people to sip soup and cat fish first; you iniiy allow them fifteen minutes for the former and about as long for the latter, more or less, according to the temptations the bon goAt of these preceding courses has to attract their attention. When the joint is half done, remove the spit and dripping-pan back, and stir up your tire thoroughly, that it may bum clear and bright for the browning; when the steam frora the meat draws towards the fire, it is a sign of its being done enough; but you will be the best judge of that from the time it has been down, the strength of the fire you have used, and the distance your spit has been from it. When the steam begins to arise it is a proof that the whole joint is thoroughly saturated with heat; any imnecessary evaporation is a waste of the best nourishment of the meat. Half an. hour before your meat is done, make some gravy; and just before you take it up, put it nearer the fire to brown it. If you wish to froth it, baste it, and dredge it with flour cai'efully; you cannot do this delicately nice without a very good light; the common fault seems to be using too much flour: the meat should have a fine light varnish of froth, not the appearance of being covered with a paste. Those who are particular about the froth use butter instead of dripping, "and send up what you roast with relish-giving froth," says Dr. King, and present such an agreeable ap- pearance to the eye that the palate may be prepossessed in its favour at fii-st sight, there- fore, have the whole course dished before roasts are taken from the fire. A good cook is as anxiously attentive to the appearance and coloiir of her roasts as a com-t beauty is to her complexion at a birthday ball. If your meat does not brown 80 much or so evenly as you wish, take two ounces of glaze—i.e., portable soup—^put four table-spoonfuls of water, and let it warm and dissolve gradually by the side of the fire. This will be done in about a quarter of an hour; put it on the meat equally aU over with a paste- brush the last thing before it goes to table. Though roasting is one of the most common, and is generally considered one of the most easy and simple processes of cookery, it requires more unremitting attention to perform it per- fectly well than it does to make made dishes. That made dishes are the most difficult l)reparations deserves to be reckoned among tlie culinary vulgar errors; in plain roasting and boiUng it is not easy to repair a mistake once made ; and all the discretion and attention of a stebdy, careful cook must be unremittingly on the alert. Some good housewives order very large joints to be rather underdone, as they can make a better hash or broil. Dkkdgings. 1. Flour mixed with grated bread. 2. Sweet herbs dried and powdered, and mixed with giated bread. 3. Lemon-peel dried and powdered — or orange-peel—mixed with flour. 4. Sugar finely powdered and mixed with Sounded cinnamon, and flour, or finely-grated read. 0. Fennel seeds, corianders, cinnamon, and sugar, finely beaten, and mixed with grated bread or flour. 6. For young pigs, grated bread or flour mixed with beaten nutmeg, ginger, pepper, sugar, and yolks of eggs. 7. Sugar, bread, and salt, mixed. Bastings. 1. Fresh butter. 2. Clarifled suet. 3. Minced sweet herbs, butter, and claret, especially for mutton and lamb. 4. Water and salt. 5. Cream and melted butter, especially for a flayed pig. 6. Yolks of eggs, grated biscuit, and juice of oranges. Our ancestors were very particular in their bastings and dredgings, as will be seen by the following quotation from May's " Accomplished Cook," London, 1665:—"The rarest ways of dressing of all manner of roast meats, either flesh or fowl, by sea or land, and divers ways of breading or dredging meats, to prevent the gravy from too much evaporating." Boasting, Mr. Buckmaster on.—"I believe I am regarded as a sort of heretic on the question of roasting meat. My opinion is that the essential condition of good roasting is constant basting, and this the meat is not likely to have when shut up in an iron box ; and what is not easily done is easily neglected. Make up your fire, not by shooting on a scuttle of coals, but laying on the coals with your hands, using an old glove. Arrange the lumps of coal so that air passes freely into the fire. By this an-angement you may avoid stirring the fire, which should be done as little as possible. Just before putting down the meat (which may be suspended by a piece of worsted, if you have no other arrangements), clear up the fireplace, and throw to the back of the fire all the cinders and a Httle small coal slightly wetted. This wiU prevent waste of fuel, and throw the heat where you want it—in the front. If you havo a meat screen, place it before the fire, so as to get moderately heated before the meat is hung to the fire. Heat reflected from bright metallic surfaces never dries or scorches the meat. Arrange the dripping-pan so that no ashes can faU into it, and just as far below the meat as will enable you to baste it easily. If you have a little dripping or stock, put about a giU into the dripping-pan for basting. Place a news- paper on the floor; this will keep your heai-th clean. There is a right and a wrong way of hanging a piece of meat to roast. The thickest part should hang a trifle below the centre of the tire; and if this can be best done by hanging the shank of a leg of mutton downwards, do so. The time required for roasting will be modi- fled by circumstances; and dijft'erent kinds or qualities of meat require somewhat different treatment. The time usually allowed is from tiftocn to twenty minutes for a poimd. Before removing the meat from the fire, press the lean part with the thumb : if the meat yield easily, or if the meat steam to the fire, it is done. Never sprinkle salt over the meat till about a quarter of an hour before it is ready. Pour