{ 770 ) ROO ROM and an orange, and lot the infusion remain for one ht)ur. Strain tho syrup through muslin, add gradually the whites of ten eggs beaten to a firm froth, and freeze tlie ])uneh in the usual way, being careful to work it vigorously with the spattle while it is being frozen. A few minutes before serving, mix together a pint of old white Jamaica rum, half a pint of green tea, half a pint of brandy, and a bottle of champagne. Add tho ice, and stir briskly till it dissolves. A pint of pine-apple syrup may be added or not. This punch should bo thick and creamy in appearance. If it is too thick to be poured into glasses, it should be thinned with a little more champagne. Iced Roman punch should be handed round in high glasses be- tween tho first and second courses. Rombo or Fowl in Salad Sauce.— Take a cold roast fowl and bone it, or cut up any remaining from the previous day into suit- able-sized pieces. Make a sauce as follows :— Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, beat them up, and add to them two spoonfuls of oil, a spoonful and a half of vinegar, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little flour of mustard, to which may be added a tea- spoonful of chopped tarragon and onion. Dip each oicce of fowl separately in this seasoning, and arrange the pieces in a dish garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings, and sprigs of parsley. Rook.—The rook affords a dry and coarse meat. A pie made of young rooks is tolerable; at least, it is the best form for using these birds as food. There is, in the opinion of some, a resemblance between the flavour of the young rook and that of the young pigeon. THE ROOK. Rook Pie.—Rooks require long stewing, or they will not be tender. The breasts are the only parts of the birds which are really worth using, and when the other portions are put into the dish, care should bo taken to cut out tho spine and the flesh ne.'ir it to the width of tliree- quarters of an inch, or the pie will have a hitter tftste.. Man;\' CQokH l«y the birdii in a dish, season them with pepper and salt, put a coarse flour-and-water crust over them, and then bake them for a couple of hours ; the next day they remove tho comnujn crust, lay good pastry over them, and bake the pie in the usual way. Tho following recipe will, however, be found very good :—Take six or eight froshly-killod young rooks. Skin without plucking them, and to do this cut the skin round th(3 first joint of the legs, and draw it over the head. Cut olf the necks, draw the birds, and cut away the legs, backs, and wings. Cut a pound of chuck steak into neat squares, pepper these, and lay them in a pie-dish, pouring over them half a tea-cupful of stock or watei'; cover the dish closely, and bake the meat tUl it is almost done enough. Lay the breasts of the rooks upon the steak, with a small slice of butter upon each. Sprinkle over them a seasoning of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and pour over them as much atSck or water as will barely cover them. Let them bake gently for half an hour. Let the diah cool, then line the edges with good pastry, cover it with the same, ornament according to taste, make a hole in the centre that the steam may escape, and bake in a brisk oven. When the pastry is done enough, the pie may be served. Time to bake, altogether, two hours and a half. Probable cost, uncertain, rooks being seldom sold. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Rook Pie (another way)—Sldn and draw six young rooks, and cut out the backbones. Season them with pepper and salt, put them in a deep dish with half a pint of water, lay some bits of butter over them, and cover the dish with a tolerably thick crust. Let the pie be well baked. Root Gravy {see Gravy Maigre for Fish: sometimes called Root Gravj'). Roots, Esculent.—These are of two kinds—those used as food, and those which principally answer the purposes of condiment or seasoning. Under the first division may be classed turnips, carrots, parsnips, Jerusalem artichokes, radishes, &c.,many of which, it will be seen, are seldom used solely for aliment, but are rather brought to our tables to quahfy our animal food. Under the second division may be arranged onions, garlic, horseradish, &c. We may add a few observations on the qualities of these several roots. The carrot, from the quantity of saccharine matter which it contains, is very nutritive and slightly laxative; but it also possesses a large proportion of fibrous matter, which in some stomachs prevents the digestion of the root, and it passes through the bowels with but little change. To obviate this effect, it ought to bo very thoroughly boiled, and it should be eaten when yoimg. The turnip is a very excellent vegetable, and, although it has the character of being flatulent, is less hable to disagree with the stomach than the carrot. It ought, how- ever, to be well boiled, and the watery part separated by pressure. Tho parsnip is nutritive and digestive, although many persons dislike it on account of its sweet flavour. The Jorusalem artichoke is agreeable, but watcrj' and flatulent It ought, therefore, never to be eaten without