( 629 ) POT POT rind or cinnamon. Beat the mixture until it is quite smooth, then add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and, separately, the whites of six eggs whisked to a firm froth. Pour the souffle into a. buttered souffle tin, round the top of which, i has been secured a broad band of oiled paper to prevent the souffle overilowing its sides, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Serve the souffle the moment it is taken from the oven. If a proper souffle tin is not at hand, a deep pie-dish may bo substituted for it. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Soup.—"Wash a dozen or more large potatoes (regents are to be preferred), in lukewarm water, and scrub them until quite clean with a soft brush. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan, barely cover them with cold water, and let them simmer gently until they are done enough. Pour off the water, and let them dry. Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter in a saucepan, and put in with it two moderate-sized onions finely minced, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and let the onions steam gently until tender. Peel the potatoes, and rub them through a colander until quite smooth. Put them into the pan with the onions, &c., and stir all well together. Add a bay-leaf to the mixtm-e, then pour in as much boiling water as will make a thick batter, and afterwards add as much boiling milk as will make the soup of the consistency of thick cream. Let it boil, put in pepper and salt to taste, and also a little grated nutmeg, and serve with toasted sippets in the dish. The soup will be better if white stock be used instead of water. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. per quart. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Wash and peel ten or twelve large potatoes. Cut them into slices, and put them into a stewpan vnth one large onion sliced, four ounces of butter, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let them steam for two or three minutes, then pour over them two quarts of white stock, or the liquid in which meat has been boiled, and let the whole simmer gently until the potatoes are soft. Press them with a wooden spoon through a fine sieve, return the puree to the soup, and stir it over the fire until it is quite hot. Add half a pint of cream or new milk, and serve; sending fried crusts to table on a separate dish. Time, an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, 5d. per quart, exclusive of the stock, if made with milk. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Potato Soup (another way). —Wash and peel a dozen large potatoes, and pjit them into a stewpan with two quarts of the liquor in which meat has been boiled, one onion, and one car- rot. Let all boil gently together for an hour, or until the potatoes arc quite soft, then rub the whole through a fine sieve, and put the soup back into the stewpan. Mix three table-spoon- fuls of flour to a smooth paste with half a pint of cold water. Mix a little of the boiling liquid with this, and afterwards turn the whole into the soup, and stir until the flour unites with the potatoes. Add pepper and salt if required, boil a few minutes longer, and serve very hot. Half a pint of milk or cream can be added or not. Send fried crusts to table on a separate dish. Time to boil the soup with the flour, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten [ persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Wash and peel a dozen large sound potatoes. Cut then), into thin slices, dredge them well with flour, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, a handful of parsley, one large onion, and a little pepper and salt. Barely cover them with cold water, and let them steam gently until soft. Press them through a sieve, and mix with the puree two quarts of nicely- flavoured stock. Boil a few minutes longer, and serve. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, 3d. per quart. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Take two pounds of peeled potatoes, a stick of celery, and the white part of two leeks, sweat in butter for ten minutes, add salt and a quart of water, and boil half an hour. Press the whole through a sieve, afterwards boil it for six or eight minutes, and serve very hot, mixed with half a pint of boiling milk or cream. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the stocky 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Soup (another way).—Boil some potatoes in stock ; mash them, and mix them with forcemeat made of chopped meat, bacon, and spice, herbs, and eggs. Make balls of these ingredients, roll them to the size of an egg, and either warm or fry them in the soup. Potato Soup (a la Creme).—Take about twenty large-sized potatoes; cleanse, peel, wash, and cut them in pieces. Put them into a stew- pan with one large onion and one head of celery also sliced up. Add fom- ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Set the pan on a slow fire, let the contents simmer, stii-ring occasionally, till they are nearly reduced to a sort of puree. Add three pints of good white consomme, then let the potatoes boil gently by the side of a moderate fire for half an hour, pass them through the tammy, and after having removed the puree into a soup-pot, add, if required, a little more consomme, and set the puree on the fire to boil gently by the side of the stove, in order to clarify it in the usual way required for other purees of vegetables. Just before serving add a pint of boiling cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a little pounded sugar. Potato Starch.—Potato starch is useful for thickening white sauces and preparing potages au gras. For these purposes it should be beaten Tip wdth a small quantity of the liquid and added to the sauce, taking care to stir it continually until mixed. Potato Starch, Adulteration by means of.—The starch of the potato is often used for the adulteration of the higher-priced starches, or sago, tapioca, and arrowroot. It is also added to cocoa, honey, butter, lard, and many other articles. Potato StuflBLng for Geese [xce Goose I Stuffing, Potato).