( 687 ) RAB RAB Rabbit, Fried.—Skin, empty, wash, and soak a youug iiibbit, and cut it into neat pieces the size of an egg. Floiu- these well, and fiy in plenty of boiling dripping till they are bi-ightly' browned, moving them about con- stantly that they may be equally dressed. Lay a slice of butter on a hot dish, and stir into this a small shallot finely minced, and a table-spoonful of good sauce, with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, if tliis is liked. Arrange the pieces of rabbit neatly on a dish, and serve very hot. _ Fried bacon is a suitable accompaniment to this dish. If there is any suspicion that the rabbit is stale, it should be thrown into boiling water, and kept boiling quickly for five or six minutes, then drained, cooled, and cut up as above. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Fried (another way).—Prepare the rabbit as in the preceding recipe. Put three table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil into a sauce- pan with an ounce of butter, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered spice. Let the butter melt, and put in the pieces of rabbit, place the sauce- pan upon a brisk fire, and stir its contents frequently till they are sufficiently dressed. Lift them out, stir an ounce of flour into the hot fat, and heat out any lumps that there may be with the back of a wooden spoon. Moisten this with half a pint of nicely-flavoured stock and a glassful of sherry, let it boil for five minutes, and strain it. Put it back into the saucepan with the rabbit, a shallot finely minced, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. "SVhen the sauce is on the point of boiling, lift out the pieces of rabbit, arrange them neatly on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve very hot. Time, twenty minutes to fry the rabbit. Probable cost, 2s. 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Fried (another way).—Prepare the rabbit as before, and cut it up into pieces not larger than a hen's egg. Dip these into beaten egg, and afterwards into nicely-seasoned bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Pile them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve very hot. The gravy may be prepared as follows:—Wash the liver of the rabbit, and hoil it for five minutes, let it get cold, and mince it finely. Simmer an inch or two of lemon-rind in a quarter of a pint of gravy till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and thicken with half a tea-spoonful of thicken- ing, or, failing this, Avith a small lump of butter rolled in flour. ^Vhen the sauce is of the proper consistency, stir in the liver and two table-spoonfuls of cream. Let it boil for one minute, and it will be ready for use. If liked, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice may be added just before it is j)Ourod round the rabbits, or the cream may be omitted, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup used instead of it. Time, a quarter of an hour to fry the rabbits. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rabbit, Galantine of (a breakfast, luncheon, or sujipcr dish),—Take two plump young rabbits. Cut oflE the heads, entirely remove the bones from both, and fasten slices of fat bacon over one, to cover the outer or skin side of it. Mince the flesh of the other rabbit finely, and with it an equal quantity of fat bacon, and a little pepper and powdered mace. No salt will bo required, as it is pro- bable that the bacon will be sufficiently salted. Lay the boned rabbit flat on a table, spread half the forcemeat upon it, arrange on this some strips of ham, tongue, and bacon, together with a truffle or two or a few mushrooms chopped small, if these are at hand, and spread another layer of forcemeat over all. Sew up the rabbit neatly, as nearly as possible in its original form, fasten it securely that the force- meat, &c., may not escape, and tie it in a white cloth. Lay two or three slices of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, place the rolled meat upon these, and add the heads and bones of the rabbit and any other bones there mabe, together with two carrots, a large onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over these ingredients as much good stock as will barely cover them, and simmer all very gently together, carefully removing the scum as it rises, until the galantine is done enough, that is, until it can be easily pierced with a skewer. Let the galantine get cold in the liquor in which it was stewed. Lift it out, strain the liquor, boil it down imtil it is so far reduced that it will form a jelly when cold, and clarify with white of egg. Pour this jelly upon plates, that it may set firm, brush- . ing one or two coats of it over the galantine to serve as glaze. Dish the galantine on a white napkin, and garnish with the savoury jelly, cut into dice, cubes, stars, &c. A galantine is always served cold. Time to sirmner, thi-ee or four hours. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbits, Giblottes of—Take two young rabbits to make a giblotte; but, observe, they must be both alike as to quality ; if you put a young one with an old one, the young one will be done to rags, while the other one wiU he scarcely done at all. Skin them, and cut them into pieces. Have ready some pieces of breast of bacon cut into the shape of small corks, which are to be blanched so that they may not be briny. Fry them in the stewpan with a little butter to give them a light brown colour. Take the bacon out of the stewpan, and put the members of the rabbits into it: when made firm, take them out also; throw a good handful of flour with the butter into the stewpan, let it get a little brown ; next moisten with some veal gravy. Let the sauce boil a little, to see whether it is not too thick; if so, you will never be able to skim ofif the fat, and accordingly it will never be of a good colour. When sufficiently stewed, put in the members, bacon, a bunch of parsley and green onions, thyme, bay-leaf, clove, &c. &c.; and when the sauce has boiled for an hour, skim it well, and put the members into another clean stewpan, and drain the sauce through a tammy; then take some turned mushrooms and some small onions, and fry them white in butter; let let them boil for a quarter of an hour in the