( 1110 ) WHI therefore take them ou'; of their shells, floui- thoni or dip tliom in breud-crumbs, and fry in hot flit. Before siaviu^,', sprinkle pepper and vinegar upon thvm. Good soup maigro may be made from wliolks. "Whey.—Whey decanted from the curds and fiwoetoned affords a favourite Hudorilic draught, which may be advantageously partaken of at bedtime whenever there is a threatening of cold ill the head. Whey (another way).—See Curd. Whey, Alum {see Alum Whey). Whey, Irish (an excellent drink in cases of fever).—Put two-thirds of a pint of sweet milk into a saucepan, let it boil, and then stir into it a third of a pint of fresli buttermilk. Gently «tir the mixture round, and let it boil up. Pour it out, let it settle, and strain off the whey. In Ireland milk is generally turned in the way thus described. The whey possesses a slight acidity which is verj'^ agreeable : it is of a perfectly clear greenish hue. It is often •called two-milk whey. Whey, Lemon.—Let the quantity of milk required boil, and stir into it when boiling as much strained lemon-juice as will turn the milk. Let it boil a minute or two, cool it, and strain off the whey. Add as much water as will make it an agi'eeablc beverage, sweeten, and it will be ready for use. Whey thus made is less heating than that for which wine is used. When they are liked, the curds may be sweetened, flavoured with nutmeg, and eaten. They are rather indigestible, and should cer- tainly be avoided by an invalid. Whey, Lemon (another way). — See Lemon Whey. Whey, Vinegar.—Make a pint of milk boU, and stu- into it when boiling a glassful of vinegar. Let it boil from one to two minutes, cool it, and strain off the whey. A little water and sugar may be added if liked. Vinegar whey, like lemon whey, is less heating than wine whey, and it promotes perspiration just as well. Whey, Wholesomeness of.—When milk is coagulated by the addition of a smaU piece of rennet, the whey, when separated from the curd, contains some butter and curd in solu- tion ; it also holds in solution nearly all the sugar of the milk, and is therefore more liable than milk to ferment in weak stomachs, and produce flatulence. Whey is not so nutritious as milk, but affords an excellent demulcent drink in consumption, coughs, jaundice, and some other diseases, either alone or mixed with mineral waters. Whey, Wine.—Boil a pint of new milk in a saucepan, and stir into it two glassfuls of sherry or raisin wine, or less if that will com- pletely turn it. Bring it again to the point of boiling, let it stand a few minutes, remove the curd, pour off the clear whey, and sweeten. If it is for an invalid a little hot water may be added. The curd is indigestible. Whim Wham.—Rub three ounces of sugar in lumps upon the rind of half a lemon till the yellow part is taken off, crush it to powder, and stir it into a pint of cream. Add a glassful of sherry or any other white wine and the well-wliiskod wliite of an egg. Wliisk the cream tiU it froths, and as the froth rises place It on a sieve to diuin. Put back into the bowl the crr>/im that drains from the froth, and whisk it again. If the weather is cold, leave the froth in a cool place until the next day. Cut four ounces of sponge biscuits into very thin slices, and fill a glass disli with alt(;mate layers of whipi>ed cream, slicc-d bis- cuit, and currant jolly. Let the froth fonn the uppermost layer. Pour the cream which has drained from the froth round the dish, and gamisli with strips of candied i>eel and bright- coloured jelly. Time, one hour or more to whip the cream. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized dish. Whipped Cream (a French recipe).—Put a quart ot very thick cream into a pan; beat it with a whisk until it becomes entirely frothed, which will soon be the case if the weather be cold; or, to hasten tlie operation, put some pounded ice with a good handful of salt into a deep pan, and in it set your pan of cream. The froth will have a greater consistency if you put into the cream a piece of pounded gum-traga- canth about the size of a pea, or the white of an egg beat up : but the former is preferable. If the froth forms slowly, take it off by degrees with a slice, and lay it on a sieve covered with a fine cloth to drain till wanted for serving, which ought not to be long, or the froth will fall. What drains from it may be added to the rest and whipped. If the cream will not froth in a quarter of an hour it is not good for that purpose. When it has drained, mix three or fom- ounces of sifted sugar to it, and flavour according to taste as follows :—A spoonful of orange-flower water, or a few orange-flowers pounded mixed with the sugar; or a tea-spoonful of the essence of roses, with a little rose-lake to colour it; or pound a quarter of a stick of vanilla with one ounce of sugar, boil and strain, add two ounces of sifted sugar, and mix it with the cream; or press the juice of four ounces of strawberries or raspberries, mixed with the sugar, and a little carmine to colour it. Lemon, orange, or any fruit you please may be used in thQ same way; or a small glassful of maraschino or any other liqueur may be added to the sugar to flavour the cream. (See Cream, Whipped.) Whipped Cream, Lemon.—Rasp the rind of two large lemons on a i)icce of sugar, and as the sugar imbibes it scrape it off into a basin with some cream, whip it up, and send it to table. It is improved if set on ice or placed in a refrigerator for some time before sending to table. Orange cream is made in the same way. Whip Sauce, Eich, for BoUed Puddings. — Beat the yolks of two oggs in a small basin, and add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, a small glassful of sheny or of any kind of liqueur, and a few drops of almond, lemon, orange, or vanilla flavouring. Put the basin in a sauce- pan which contains a small quantity of boihng water, and wliisk the sauce over the fire till