SOL ( 894 ) SOL a baking-pan, cover thorn with layers of hacon, and bake thorn. Whon thoy are dono, take off the skewers, pare the forcemeat that has pro- truded, and dish them neatly. Witli a part of the pounded lobsters' spawn which you have kept aside mix two spoonfuls of sauce tournoe deprived of all fat, and a good lump of fresh butter; drain the whole thi-ough a tamis, that it may be fine. Add to it a little essence of anchovies, with pepper, salt, and lemon- juice. Keep the sauco very hot, and cover the fillets with it. Observe—all the bacon must bo taken oif Sole, Fillets of (au Gratin).—Take four ounces of mushrooms, four ounces of parsley, and two ounces of shallot. Peel the mush- rooms and the shallot, and wash the parsley, then mince the ingredients separately. Put half an ounce of butter into a saucepan with the minced shallot, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch of salt. Stir this briskly over the fire for five minutes, add the parsley and the mushrooms, and stir the mixture for five minutes longer; then poirr it out. Butter a tin or silver baking- pan rather thickly, lay the herbs in it, place upon them a sole, neatly filleted and trimmed, and cover the fillets with finely-grated bread- crumbs. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon the fish, moisten it with a glassful of light wine, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, and a tea- spoonful of ketchup. Bake the sole imtil done enough. Serve it very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. If the smface is not sufficiently browned, hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over it for three or four minutes. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sole, Fillets of. Baked, with Sweet Herbs.—Fillet a large sole, and divide the fillets into halves. Rub these with a freshly- cut lemon, and leave them in a cool place for an hour or two. Prepare some savoury crumbs as follows:—Mix two ounces of finely-powdered bread-crumbs with a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Dip the fillets first into clarified butter, then into the crumbs, and when the butter is set dip them in beaten egg and into the crumbs a second time. Butter a baking-dish thickly, place the soles in it, lay two ounces of butter here and there upon them in little pieces, and bake the fish in a brisk oven. Send shrimp, anchovy, or caper sauce to table in a tureen. If the flavour is liked, the dish in which the soles are baked can be rubbed quickly with garlic before the soles are put into it. Time to bake the fillets, eight or ten minutes. Pro- bable cost of one large sole, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Sole, Fillets of (Turkish fashion).—Take off and saute the fillets as directed before. Have some rice swelled and made soft in good consomme ; mix it with a few spoonfuls of good bechamel, to put in the centre of the dish : this rice must be thick, in order thjit it may be di.shod in a pyramid. To mask or cover the soles, take three spoonfuls of bctihamfil mixed with a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea- spoonful of cavico, and a little salt and pepper. Work this sauco well, and cover the fillets only. The rice is to fonn the centre of the disli. Sole, FiUets of, Vol-au-Vent of. —This is a dish of a former day's reuatiuh. Pare the skin; cut the solos into round pieces of the size of half a crown. Then liave a cream sauce, or else foui- spoonf ubj of bechamel mixed with a quarter of a ]jound of butter, and a httle salt and i)epper. Lot the sauce be made hot, without boiling; put the soles into it, and then the whole mixed into a vol-au-vent. The sauce must be kept rather thick, for fear of making the crust soft. Sole for a Convalescent.—Take one fillet of a large fresh sole, sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon it, and put it into a sauce- pan with four table-spoonfuls of cold water. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, skim it, and simmer very gently till the fish is done enough. Take up the sole with an egg-slice, and place it on a hot dish. Stir the weU-beaten yolk of a new-laid egg into the water, and whisk the sauce over the fire till it begins to thicken. Pour it over the fish, and serve im- mediately. Time to simmer the sole, eight to ten minutes. Probable cost, one large sole, Is. 6d. Sufficient for one person. Sole, Fricasseed.—Take a pair of large soles and one small one; clean, skin, and fry all three, and drain them on a sieve before the fire to free them from fat. Raise the flesh of the small sole from the bones, tear it into flakes, and mix with it an equal quantity of finely- grated bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonful of picked and chopped parsley, a pinch of grated lemon- rind, and a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and with the fingers work into the mixture two oimces of fresh butter and one egg. Make it up into small balls, and fry these in hot fat. Put half a pint of good stock into a saucepan, thicken it with brown thickening, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a glassful of port or claret. Season with salt and cayenne, if required. Let it boil till it is thick and smooth, lay the soles and the balls into it, and simmer all gently together tiU the fish is heated thi-oughout. Lift the soles upon a dish, place the balls round them, pour the sauce over all, garnish vrith cut lemon and parsley, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the fish in the gravj', three or four minutes. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Fried.—Choose a sole weighing from three-quarters of a pound to a pound. Scrape thoroughly, cut off the fins and gills, wash the fish well, and wipe it dry; tnke off the dark skin, by cutting it at the tail and drawing it over the heiid. The rocs may cither be taken out, or left in and fined with the fish. Dry the solo thoroughly, flour it, and brush it over on both sides with well-beaten yolk of egg; shake very finely-grated crumbs of bread all over, and leave it in a cool place for an hour, if time will pennit. Put into a frying- pan as much good dripping as will, when molted, cover the fish, men it is quite hot—