RAI RAI ( 702 ) 8ea8onm<? to iniiko gmvy, and if this is not sufficioutly strung to jolly whm cold dissolve a littlo isiny:luss in it. Tour this i^nivy into tho ])ie when it is done, and serve cold. If liked, tho birdniiiy bo jointed, the bones removed, and tho pie filled with alternate layers of forcemeat, i-iune, veal, and ham ; but it must be remembered that tho undermost and ui)permo8t layer should bo composed of forcemeat. It is always an improvement to lard tho fleshy parts of game or poultry with thin slices of bacon. Time, a good-sized pie, made with a large chicken and three or fom- slices of ham and veal, will requii-e from four to five hours' baking. Raised Pies, Paste for {see Paste for Kaised Pies). Raised Pies, Pastry for.—When plain pastry is required, put a pound of flour into a bowl, and mix with it an ounce of salt. Make a hole in the centre, and pour into this four ounces of lard or butter dissolved in boiling water. Work the mixture first with a spoon and afterwards with the hands to a firm smooth paste. AVhen it is well kneaded wrap it in a cloth, and lay it before the fire for a few minutes. This will make it more easy to work. If richer pastry is desired, lay a pound of ■flour on a board, and rub lightly into it with the fingers six ounces of sweet butter. Add a little salt, the yolks and whites of two eggs, and as much water as will make a stiff smooth paste; this will be about the third of a pint. Knead the paste well to make it firm, and it will "be ready for use. This pastry may of course be made richer by putting into the flour a larger proportion of butter, but it must be remembered that the richer the pastry the more difiicult it will be to raise. When a mould is to be used, another ounce or two of butter may be allowed without much fear of disaster. Raised Pies, To Form.—Take as much pastry as it is intended to use for the pie. Cut off as much as wall be wanted for the cover, and form the remainder to the shape of a cone. Flatten the sides with the palms of the hands, and when they are quite smooth squeeze the point down a little, and press the knuckles of BAISED PIE. the left hand into tho middle of the pastry till the inside is hollow. Knead it well with the fingers, and be carefid to have every part of an equal thickness. Fill the pic, roll out the re- mainder of the pastry to the size of tlie top of tho pie, moisten the edges with ahttle egg, and lay on the cover. Press this down securely, and pinch it with pastry pincers. Make a small hole in tho centre of tho pie, and ornament with pastry leaves, chains, or any fanciful designs. Brush all over with egg, and bake m a well-heated oven. Wlion the jjie ia done enough, take it out, and pour in a little good gravy which will jolly when cold. Jfa mould is used, butter it, and line it with goo.d firm pastry. Fill the pie, roll out the cover, moisten the edges of tho jtastry, hiy it on, and press it down securely, so that'the edge of tlie pie may be raised slightly above the cover. Pinch the edges with the jjastry nippers. Make a small hole in tho centre, and ky upon the pio pastry ornaments of any descrijjtion. Brush over with egg, and bake in a well- heated oven. Take the pie out, di'aw out the pin which fastens the side of the mould, and take it out carefully. If it is not sufficiently browned, put it into the oven a quarter of an hour longer. Raised pies should be served on a neatly-folded napkin, and garnished with parsley. Raisin.—Eaisins are simply grapes dried in the sun or in an oven. Those dried in the sun are much the best. There are several kinds : Muscatels, Valencias, Smyrna, and Eleme raisins, and Sultana raisins, which are without stones, and generally used in cookery. When making good cakes and puddings it is well worth while to use good Muscatel raisins, as they are much superior in fiavour to the common ones, and especially as grocers fre- quently sell loose ones which answer excel- lently for the purpose at a cheaper rate than the bimches wluch are to be used for dessert. Raisin and Almond Pudding {see Almond and Raisin Pudding). Raisin Cake.—Beat half a poimdof sweet butter to a cream. Add half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, half a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, three eggs well-beaten—the yolks and whites separately—a table-spoonful of brandy, and as much soda as will lie on a sixpence dissolved in a wine-glassful of hot milk. Beat the mixture till it is quite light. Stone half a j)Ound of Muscatel raisins, and chop them small, roll them in flour, and stir them into the cake. Line a small cake-tin with buttered paper, three-parts fill it with the batter, and bake in a well-heated oven. In order to ascertain when the cake is done enough put a skewer into the middle of it, and if when drawn out it is bright and dry, the cake is done. If preferred, com- moner raisins may of course be xised, but the Muscatels are very much superior to them in flavour and quality. Time to bake, three- quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Raisin Cheese.—Stone two pounds of raisins, and put them into a saucepan with one pound of sugar, three or four cloves, and half a nutmeg grated. Boil for an hour and a half, then take the pan from the fire, and when the cheese is a little cool pour it into tho dish in which it is to be served. Garnish with thin strips of candied fruit. Time, an lioiir and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons.