( 557 ) PIG pia press it under a weight. When it is cold and stilf take out the tlireads, glaze the head, and serve it, garnished with clear jelly cut into dice. This jelly may bo made of the liquid in wliich the head was cooked boiled quickly down, and cleared with white of egg {see Aspic Jelly). Before sending the head to table it is well to cut a slice off the neck end to show of what the dish consists. Time to simmer, three hours or more. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Head, Collared (Superlative).— Take a pig's head cut with as much of the neck as Ciin be had. Clean it carefully, split it open to take out the brains, and bone it without injming the outer skin. Eub it well with common salt, and let it di-ain for twenty-four hours, then put it into a deep pan, and pom- over it a cold brine, prepared as follows :—Put one poimd of salt and a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre into a stewpan, with four quarts of water, a handful of chopped juniper-berries, half a dozen bruised cloves, three bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and basil, and two or three sage- leaves. Boil quickly for a quarter of an hour, itTicn put aside to cool. Let the head lie in this brine for nine or ten days, and tm-n and baste it frequently. Take it up, drain and dry it, and lay it open, skin downwards, upon a table; spread evenly over it a forcemeat, made of half a pound of undressed ham, half a pound of breast of bacon, four ounces of fresh butter, haK a dozen young onions, finely-minced, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, with a little cayenne and jpoundcd mace. Pound these ingredients ■smoothly together. Shape the head as evenly as possible by laj-ing the thick part of one cheek to the thin part of the other, then roll it tightly, bind it securely with tape, cover vnth. a Knen cloth, and put it into a stewpan, with as much cold water or stock as will cover it, together with the bones and trimmings of the head and a little seasoning. Let it simmer gently until •done enough, that is, until a skewer will pierce it easily. Leave the head in the liquor until it is almost cold, then put it under a weight, and let it lie until the next day. Remove the bindings, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Collared pig's head is a most convenient dish to keep in the house, as it vdll remain good for a considerable time in moderate weather. Time to boil, four hours, or more, from the time the liquid reaches the boiling point. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Head, Made in the Shape of a Cheese. — Take away the bones entirely from a pig's head, and remove the flesh without injuring the skin. Cut the meat in pieces, separating the fat from the lean. Deal with the ears in a similar manner, and mix them with thyme, bay-leaves, sage, and parsley, cut as fine as possible. Add also the grated lind of a lemon, with its juice, and season the whole with salt, popper, spices, and nutmeg. Place the skin of the head on a dish, and arrange the meat upon it, mixing the fat and lean together. Add some pork fat, a tongue, cut into thin slices, and some trufflos cut in strips. Whi'u the skin is tilled, arrange it, and sew it round tc close it. Now place it in a saucepan just large enough to hold it, and put with it some vege- tables, spices, salt, and pepper, together with equal parts of water and white wine, and simmer at a moderate heat for six or seven hours tiU done. Take the saucepan from the fire, and let the meat remain in it until almost cold. Then take it out, put it in a mould or iron saucepan, and place a wooden plate with a heavy weight on it to squeeze the head and flatten it into the form of a cheese. If prcfeiTcd, a similar dish to the above may be prepared with the ears alone. Clean the ears, cut them in two pieces, season, and stew in white wine. When cooked sufficiently, arrange them in a mould with alternate layers of tongue or ham which hao been cooked separately and cut into slices. Press out the whole then as flat as possible. Pig's Head, Moulded.—Lay the head and feet of a pig, and two calf's feet, all pro- perly cleansed, into a stewpan, with an onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and as much water as will barely cover the whole. Simmer all gently together until the meat is tender, then draw out the bones, and when the meat is nearly cold, cut it into small pieces about the size of a bean, and put with it any remains of dressed poultry, tongue, or meat that may be at hand, first cutting them into pieces like the rest. Strain and skim the liquor, and boil it quickly down to a jelly. Clear it with white of egg, and flavour with plenty of salt and pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a few drops, of tarragon vinegar if liked. Put the minced meat into it, with half a dozen sliced gherkins, and let it remain until quite hot. Pour a small quantity of the clear jelly into a mould, and bend it round, when it begins to stiffen, so that it may adhere to the sides, and the inside of the mould be evenly coated. Ornament the bottom prettily with beetroot, sliced green pickles, pieces of hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, &c. Lay three or four table- spoonfuls of the thinnest part of the mince gently into the mould, and when set pour ia the rest. Let it stand until the next day. If there is any difficulty in turning the jellied meat out of the mould, tie a cloth, which has been wrung out of boiling water, round it for a minute or two, and loosen the edges with a knife. Serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Time, to boil the meat till ten- der. Probable cost of head, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast or a luncheon dish. Pig's Head, Piquant.—Take afresh pig's head. Singe and clean it carefully. Lay it in a pickling-pan, with a dessert-spoonful of common salt, half a dozen cloves, one or two bay-leaves, a salt-spoonful of peppercorns, a salt-spoonful of bruised juniper-beriics, two sliced onions, and half a lemon, thinly sliced. Pour half a pint of vinegar over the whole, let it lie for five days, turning and basting the head and rubbing in the spices at least once each day. Take it up, drain and dry it, brush it over with clarified butter, and jjlace it in a stewpan over a moderate fire until it is lightly browned all over. Pour in the marinade, leaving out mo.st of the lemon, and add a cupful of water. Put the lid on the saucepan, steam the meat gently for an hour and a half, and baste