( 020 ) SPO the cakos imiuoJiatoly in a woll-lujutciU oven. If likud, th(3 Hyrup can be flavoured with lemon- rind iustcad of vanilla. Time to baku, about an liour. No. 3. Take throo i^gyH and thuir weight in Hour, and four eggs and their wtiight in sugar. Put the yolks of the seven eggs and the sugar into a saucepan, and boat thorn over a gentle lire till they aro ncw-niilk-warm. Pour them into a biisin, and put with them a table- spoonful of brandy and any flavouring that may bo preferred. Stu- them well together, and dredge the floiu- in very gradually, beating the mixture all the time. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a solid froth, stir them into the bat- ter, and beat it again for a quarter of an hour. Butter a mould, sprinkle powdered sugar upon it, pour in the cake, and put it immediately into a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sponge Cakes with Apple Snow.— Cut four or live stale penny sponge cakes into thin slices ; lay these on a glass dish, and pour over them half a pint of good custard or cream favoured with a little brandy. Bake half a dozen large apples in a well-heated oven tiU they break and are soft. Scrape the pulp away from the sldn and cores, weigh it, and a quarter of an hour before it is wanted beat up with half a pound of it the strained juice of a lemon, as much powdered sugar as will sweeten it pleasantly—the quantity needed wiU depend upon the quality of the apples—and the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Beat the apple- mixture with a whisk tiU it looks light and frothy, and has the appearance of snow, pUe it on the custaxd, and serve immedia tely. Time, two houi's to soak the sponge cakes in the custard. Probable cost, Is. 6d. if the custard be made with milk. Sufficient for a small supper dish. Sponge, Orange {see Orange Sponge). Sponge, Savoy.—Break six eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate bowls. Beat the yolks lightly, and then add a pinch of salt, half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, and a little flavouring. Beat these ingredients together briskly w^th a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour. Add a quarter of a pound of corn-flour, and, lastly, stir in lightly the whites of the eggs whisked to a firin fiftth. Pour the batter gently into a mould which has been buttered and covered with sifted sugar, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. Turn it out carefully, and put it on a sieve till cold. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, about Is. Sprats.—This is a very common fish on many parts of the British coas*., and elsewhere in the northern parts of the Atlantic. It is smaller than the herring, being only about six inches long when iuU-grown. It strongly re- sembles the herring, however, though it is easily distinguished "by the serrated belly, and by the position of the fins, the ventral fins beginning immediately beneath the first ray of the dorsal fin, and not beneath the middle of it, aa in the herring and pilchard. ;^other easUy-pbscrved distinction is the waotot RxUlary bmrstotho ventral fins, whieli both the huxing- tuid pil- chard have. The dentition is also different. Notwithstanding aU this, an old opinion has often been put forward, and urged with some pertinacity on jiubUc attention, tliat the sprat is the young of the herring, which, therefore, it is injurious to a more important fishery to cap tiue." The Firth of Perth produces sprats- caUed "garvies" hi Scotliind—so abundantlj- that they are sold in Edinbiugh and Glasgow by measui-e, and cheaper than any other kind of fish. Sprats are wholesome, and of a good flavour. They may be smoked, dried, potted, or fried, but they are best when broiled, as they are of a very oily nature. They are in season during the winter. They should be chosen as fresh as possible. This may be known by the brightness of their eyes and their silvery look. Though many persons eat them with salt alone, it will be found that their flavour is improved by the addition of a squeeze of lemon-juice and a pinch of cayenne. Sprats, Baked.—Clean the sprats, cut off the heads, draw them at the gills, and dry them with a soft doth. Put them into a dish, and cover \rith equal quantities of vinegar and water. Add a little seasoning in the pro- portion of a bay-leaf, a small onion, two or three allspice, a little salt, and a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper with each pint of the liquor. Cover the dish closely, and bake the sprats tiU done enough in a gentle oven. When they are cold, take off the cover, pour cold vinegar over them, and tie them up. They will keep for a week or two. Time to bake, half to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Id. per poimd. Sprats, Broiled.—Clean the sprats, dry them well, and draw them at the gills. Dip them lightly in flour, fasten them in rows on small skewers run through the heads, and broil them on a closely-barred gridiron over a slow fire. When they are done upon one side, turn them on the other. Serve them on a very hot dish. They are generally served dry, but if liked a Uttle lemon-juice may be squeezed over them at the last moment. Time to broil the sprats, four or five minutes. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for three personsl Sprats, Dried.—Dried sprats are some- times eaten plain, but they are very dry and salt. If Uked, they may be sUghtly broiled, but perhaps the best way of serving them is to put thein in a basin, pour boiling -water upon them; then in a few minutes skin them, and serve them very hot. Sprats, Fried.-'Clean the sprats, dry them well, draw them at the gills, dredge them with flour, and run a smaU skewer through tho heads of about a dozen of them. Fry them on tho skewer in plenty of hot fat, and when they are nicely browned Uft them on a hot dish covered with blotting-paper, and put them before the firo tiU the fat has drained from them. Fold a hot plate in a warm napkm; lay this on a hot dish, draw the skewer from the