THI TEN ( 966 ) the mixturo ovor tho fire for two ininutcH. rour iu II qiuirtor of a pint of thick croiim, or, failing croain, use milk. Have a iilletod an- chovy finely mincud. 8tir tho Banco ovor tlio fire until it is on tho point of boiling, add a table-spoonful of Indian soy, pour it into a tureen, stir for a minute or two, put with it a littlo popper and salt and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Tench, Stewed.—Take about two pounds of tench; clean, scale, and di-aw tlio fisli care- fully, and remove tho gills. Put six ounces of good dripping or butter into a atowpan with a musliroom chopped small, a sliced carrot, a finely-minced onion, a turnip, a bunch of pars- ley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, tho thin rind ' of half a lemon, and two or three cloves. Stir those ovor a clear tiro for six or eight minutes, then di-edge over them a table-spoonful of flour, and pour in half a pint of stock or water and the strained juice of two lemons. Put in the tench, and let it boil, then add half a tumbler- ful of claret, a table-spoonful of Worcester sauce, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer very gently until done enough. Take the fish up, place it on a hot dish, and put it in the oven until the sauce is ready. Strain the sauce, skim carefully, pour it over the fish, and serve immediately with some toasted sippets, the roe fried, a little horseradish, and lemon. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, tench being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for two or three persons. Tench, Stewed (another way).— Take three or four moderate-sized tench; clean, scale, and draw them, and cut them into convenient- sized pieces. Put them in a stewpan with three or four large mushrooms chopped small, a dozen button onions, a blade of mace, two anchovies, a shallot, a tea-si^oonful of mixed parsley, a pinch of thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over them as much nicely- flavoured stock as will cover them, add a glass- ful of port or claret, and simmer the fish gently for half an hour. Open a dozen oysters, beard them, and preserve their liquor; dip them for an instant into cold water; put them into a saucepan for a few minutes with the liquor, and let them heat gently for three or four minutes, till they look plump. Tench, Stewed (another way).—Put them into a bowl, and leave a little of their liquor upon them to keep them moist. Strain the gravy from the tench, place the fish on a hot dish, and keep it hot. Thicken the gravy with a little flour, and let it boil. Put tho oysters and their liquor into it, but on no account allow it to boil after they are added. Pour the sauce over tho fi.sh, and serve hot. Garnish Avith fried sippets. Time, three-quar- ters of an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tench, Stewed, with Poulette Sauce.—Take about two jiounds of tench; draw and clean tho fish canjfully, and remove the gills. Put it into boiling water for throe minutes, then remove the scales, and cut tho fish I into conveniont-si/x'd pieces. Mix two ounces ot butter and one ounce and a half of flour over a clear fire until quite sinootli. Add as niuoli common I'rencli wine or cider as will cover the fish, and let it Ijoil for eiglit or ten minutes. 1 ut with it a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a l)ay-leaf, a moderate-sized onion, and a httlo pepper and salt. Add the fish, and let It stew gently over a slow fire until done enough. Strain tho sauce, and mix part of it with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs in a basin, and pour it to the remainder. Stir it over a gentle fire until it is very hot without boiling, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Arrange the slices of tench upon a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and sen'e very hot. The dish may bo garnished with the fried roc, toasted sippets, and a little parsley and horseradish. Time to simmer the fish, about twenty minutes. Suflicieut for two or three persons. Tewahdiddle, Dr. Eitchiner's.—Dr. Kitchiner recommends this preparation as one of tho pleasantest of beverages. Grate a little nutmeg into a pint of table beer, and add a small roll of thin lemon-rind, a little grated ginger, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Stir the beverage until tho sugar is dissolved, and drink it at once. Thickening.—Sauces and soups may be thickened in various ways, and the difi^erent pro- cesses are spoken of in the professional nomen- clature as liaisons; thus we have liaisons of roux and liaisons of eggs. Soups are thickened also with vegetables, and with farinaceous sub- stances, such as sago and tapioca, and when these are used, they are generally boiled with the liquor, according to the directions given in each recipe. In ordinary domestic cookery, however, the word "thickening" is generally understood as specially denoting the brown or white thickening for sauces, made of flour and butter, and called by the French roux; and as these preparations, though casj'' to make, require both time and care, detailed directions are here given for making them. Common cooks are accustomed to dispense with this prope'rly-prepared roux, and to thicken their sauces with a hastilj^-mado paste of flour, and to colour them with bm-nt sugar; the conse- quence is their sauces often taste cither musty, gruelly, or burnt. Those who have not hitherto done so, would find it to their advantage to avail themselves of the first leisure hour they have at their disposal, to make a quantity of the true browm thickening, and then to put it aside to be used when required: it is as easy to make a large quantity as a small. The roux will keep for throe or four months, and the sauces thickened with it are rich and brown in appearance. Thickening, Brown.—Take a pound of flour. Spread it on a newspaper or large dish, and dry it thoroughly before tho fire, and afterwards sift it carefully. Put a pound of fresh butter into a stowpan over a gentle fire, and melt it very gradually. Skim carefullj-, and afterwards pour off the portion that looks like clear oil, and leave untouched tho white