BIG BIG ( 739 ) absorbed by the grain; the other is to put in three or four times as much water, but to pour almost all of it off as soon as the grain changes from its pearly-white colour and gives proof of having softened. In both modes, when this stage of boiling has been attained, the pot is to be withdrawn from the hot fire and set where it will be kept at a low steaming heat imtil the water is all gone. The last process is called "soaking." Properly conducted, the rice comes from the pot perfectly done, of a clear white colour, with each grain Jinn and distinct and swelled to double its original size. Salt, of course, is to be added. Rice prepared in this way should not be stirred much in boiling, or it will become gluey; a large open fork passed through it once or t\vice will be sufficient. This recipe was furnished recently to the JFood Journal by a lady familiar from childhood with all the luxuries of a rice plantation. Bice Boiled for Curry.—Patna rice ought properly to be used for curry, but when it is not at hand Carolina rice will do almost as well. Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, drain it, and pick out everj' discoloured grain. Season two quarts of boil- ing water with a little salt, sprinkle the rice into it, and let it boil with the lid of the sauce- pan partly off for thirteen minutes. Drain it on a colander, then put it into a buttered saucepan, cover closely, and let it remain by the side of the fire until each grain is perfectly tender when pressed between the thumb and finger, but still unbroken. Be careful not to stir the rice while it is boiling, and serve on a separate dish. Time, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bice, Boiled, for Curry (another way). —See Curry, to Boil llice for. Bice, Boiled, Plain (Soyer's recipe).— Put two quarts of water into a stewpan, with a tea-spoonful of salt; when boiling, add to it half a pound of rice weU washed ; boil for ten minutes, or till each grain becomes rather soft; drain it into a colander, slightly grease the pot with butter, and put the rice back into it; let it swell slowly for about twenty minutes near the fire, or in a slow oven. Each grain will then swell up, and be weU separated ; it is then ready for use. Bice, Boiled, To Serve as aVegetable with Hot Meat.—Wash half a pint of rice in several waters until the water is clear. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of cold water, a pinch of salt, and a piece of butter the size of a pea. Let it boil gently iintil it is tender and quite dry. Serve in a vegetable tureen. Or, wash the rice, and tie it loosely in a cloth, leaving room for it to swell to four times its bulk. Put it into boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. Lift it upon a sieve, drain it, untie the string, and shake the rice into a vegetable-dish. Stir with a fork to separate the grains, and add a slice of butter and a little pepper and salt. Time, with the cloth, an hour and a half; with- out the cloth, half an hour. Bice Border (a Danish recipe).—Scald one pound of rice, boil it in two pints of milk till it becomes a stiff cake. While still warm stir in a quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it into the oven to bake, setting the dish in sand to prevent its cracking. This may be used round various dishes. It is frequently served with fish stewed, especially lobsters stewed with cauliflower, and has a very pretty effect. A little of the ]obster-butter should be mixed with the rice to givt it a fine red colour. Bice, Border of. — Sweet and savourj' preparations of all kinds are very good served in a border of rice instead of with pastry. This border may be made in a mould, which may be easily procured, as moulds are made on purpose for rice borders, or it may be formed with the hand. The latter is the more difficult process of the two. The rice should be boiled in stock or water, with a seasoning of pepper and salt; or it should be boiled in milk, sweetened and flavoured, according to the nature of the prepa- ration which is to accompany it. For a border of rice served with a fricassee or savoury stew of any kind, wash and drain a pound of rice, and simmer it gently with two ounces of butter, three pints of water, and a little salt, tiU it is quite tender, and has absorbed the liquor. A little onion or a slice of fat bacon may be added if liked. When the rice is done enough, pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste, cover the bot- tom and sides of a buttered mould with this, being carefiU. to leave a thick and compact crust in every part, place a piece of bread in the centre, and cover it with rice. Press it with a spoon, and smooth it, then let it remain until cold. Dip the mould in cold water and turn the rice upon a dish, mark the lid on the top about an inch from the edge, brush the rice over with clarified butter, and bake in a very hot oven until it is brightly browned all over. Take off the cover, now become an upper crust, remove the bread very carefuUj', fill the hollow with the preparation destined for it, lay on the cover, glaze the rice, put it in the oven a minute or two, and serve very hot. Filleted fish, lamb's and sheep's trotters, stewed oysters, sweetbreads, game puree, ragouts of cold meat or fowl, may all be served in this way. For rice which is to be served with jam or fruit of any kind, boil the rice with milk, and when it is tender, beat it up with butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs, then proceed precisely as above. When no mould is used, boil the rice as above, pound it in a mortar, then gather it into a ball: wash the hands in cold water, and mould the rice into a round shape, about four inches high and seven wide. Mark the cover an inch from the end, ornament the outside in any fanciful way, brush over with clarified butter, and bake in a hot oven. When done enough, lift oft' the cover, and scoop out as much rice from the centre as wiU leave the requisite vacant space, taking care to leave the walls firm and compact. Time, about an hour and a half to simmer the rice; half to three-quarters of an hour to colour the border. Bice Bread.—In this country rice is sel- dom made into bread by itself, though it may