( 1155 ) YEA YOR paper every time it dries, until a cake is formed, then divide it into squares with a knife. Yeast Wreaths.—Set a pound and a half of fine flour to warm in a pan. Mix an ounce and a half of fresh dried yeast, or two hirge table-spoonfuls of brewer's yeast, \y-ith a cupful of lukewarm milk; stir this in the centre of the dough to a batter; cover, and leave it to rise. When it is light, add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three eggs, three ounces of sifted sugsir, and a little milt. Work all to a smooth light dough. Divide it into six parts. Roll them on the paste-board into long bars; plait two twists of these, lay them in rings on a buttered tin, making the ends of each ring join. Set them in a warm place to rise, and, when light, brush them over with egg. Sprinkle chopped almonds and coarsely-powdered sugar over, and bake them to a nice yellow colour in a moderate oven. Yellow Colour.—Yellow colour for the ornamentation of pastry may be prepared by placing an ounce of hay-saffron in a sugar-pan with a gill and a half of water, a small quantity of alum, and half an ounce of sugar. Set the pan on the fire, let the liquid boil for ten minutes, then pass it through a napkin. Yellow Pickle. — Take quarter of a f)Ound of brown mustard seed, two ounces of ong pepper, two ounces of black pepper, two ounces of garlic, one ounce of turmeric, quar- ter of an ounce of mace, three roots of horse- radish, and half a poimd of salt. Dry these ingredients thoroughly, and pour oyer them a gallon of cold vinegar. Procure a large head of cauliflower, two cabbages, six large carrots, and a quart of French beans. Cut the vegetables into small pieces, strew salt over them, and let them stand for twenty-foiir hours. Drain them on cloths, and dry them on hair sieves in the sun, or near the fire, for twelve days. Put with them a quart of small onions, and let them dry two days longer. Put them into a large jar, with the vinegar, and let the pickle stand near the fire or in a warm place. It must not, however, be made hotter than new milk. At the end of ten days it wiW be ready for use. If it is too thick, a little boiling vinegar may be added. Time, three to four ■y^eeks. York Hams,—Of English hams, York hams and WestmoreLand hams are perhaps the best. If they are only three or four months old, they do not need to soak very long, but if a year old or jnore, they should be soaked for twenty-four hours before being dressed. A ii&m is excellent when nicely boiled, l^ut. better Vfhen baked. Yorkshire Backstone Oake (^ee Oat- oake). Yorkshire Black Puddings.—Crumble a quarter of a pound of stale bread, pom- boiling milk over it to cover it, and lot it remain until it has absorbed the milk. Soak a pint of half grits, and boil them for half ftH hour in as much milk as w^l entirely cover thorn. Drain the milk, mix it with the boiled grits, and add a pint of blood and half a pint of good cream, together with half a pound of finely-shred suet, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a dessert-spoonful of chopped thyme, and the same quantity of marjoram, sage, and penny-royal, a leek, a smaU omon, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of black pepper, six powdered cloves, and a pmch of grated nutmeg, ground ginger, and powdered aUspice. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and add four well-beaten eggs. Have ready one pound of the iimer fat of the pig cut into dice. Cleanse the skins thoroughly. Half fill them, and put in the fat amongst the mince. Tie the skins in links, prick them with a fork, and boil tiU done enough. Let them cool, and hang them in a cool situation till wanted. Broil them lightly over a clear fire, and serve on a napkin. Time to boil the puddings^ about an hour. Yorkshire Brown Bread.—Mix three pounds of best flour with one pound of coarse broad bran. A pound of rye flour may also be added, if approved. Make a hollow in the centre of the flour, but do not quite touch the bottom of the bowl, and sprinkle a little salt round the edge of the flour. Mix an ounce of fresh German yeast smoothly with a little more than half a pint of tepid water. Pour a cupful of tepid water into the hole in the flour, mix with it as much flour from the sides as wiU make a thin batter, and add the yeast. Sprinkle flour over the top, throw a cloth over the bowl, and let it stand near the fire till the yeast rises in bubbles through the flour on the surface. Knead the bread thoroughly, adding lukewarm water as required, and continue to knead without ceasing till it does not stick to the fingers and the sides of the bowl. Cut it across with a knife, throw a cloth over it, and let it stand near the fire or in a warm place until it is well risen and the surface is slightly cracked. Grease some tins, three-parts fill them with the dough, let the loaves rise in the tins for a few minutes, prick them with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven. If they are put into a brisk oven, the bread will not be baked through. Brown loaves require more water and longer baking than white bread. If liked, a smaller proportion of bran may be used with the flour; pr lye flpu|- only may be used. Yorkshire Plat Cake (sometimes called Oven Cake).—When bread is made at home, and the dough is being formed into loaves, take a piece the size of half a loaf. Form it into a ball, and with the rolling-pin roll it into a large round cake, from eight to twelve inches in diameter and three-quarters of an inch thick. Put it on a buttered baking-tin, prick it with a fork, let it rise before the fire for about ten minutes, and bake in a brisk oven. When firm it is done enough. Split it in halves the broad way, butter it well, and serve hot or cold lime to bake the oake, about three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. buflicient for three or four persons. Yorkshire Fritters.—Mix two ounces of powdered sugar, a pinch of solt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated, with half a pound of flour. Add a table-spoonful of fresh veast, or half an ounce of German veast, and hdlf a pint of fresh milk, and beat the whole to a thick batter.