SUQ ( 941 ) SDG Sugar, Devices in.—To ma" a these take any quantity of powdored loaf su^jar, make it into a paste witli muoUage, and mould it to tiiste. Sugar. Fish Preserved -with.— A method aaopted in Portugal for preser\ing fish consists in removing the \'iscera and sprinkling sugar over the interior, keeping the fish in a horizontal position, so that the air may pene- trate as much as possible. It is said that fish preserved in this way can be kept fresh for a long time, the savour being as perfect as if recently caught. Salmon thus treated before salting and smoking possess a much more agreeable taste, a table-spoonful of sugar being sufficient for a five-pound fish. Sugar Icings and Glazings, for Cakes, &C.—Take two pounds of icing sugar in a bowl. Throw in the whites of two, or if necessary three eggs. The whites must not be whisked, but thrown on as they are. Beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon. Add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a few drops at a time. When a smooth paste which will not run is produced, the icing is ready. It should be spread evenly over the cake, which has been already baked and allowed to cool, with hands which have been well wetted with cold water. It may be coloured, if liked, with cochi- neal, &c. If it is wished to ornament the cake with an ice beading, put a little of the icing into a small piece of white paper twisted into the form of a white sugar-bag. Squeeze this so that the sugar will come out through the hole at the bottom in a thin stream, and with this form any suitable devices on the cake. To impart to pastry a clear glaze which resembles barley-sugar, dip the surface of the pastry into liquid caramel {see Sugar, Boiled from Syrup to Caramel), or sift powdered and dry white sugar thickly upon it, and melt it by holding a salamander or red-hot shovel close to it. This glaze needs to be carefully preserved from damp. The icing must be dried in a cool oven. Sugar Paste, for Tarts, &c.—Rub four ounces of fresh butter into a pound of flour; add a little salt and three ounces of sugar. Work the whole into a smooth paste with an egg and a little water. Use as required. Sugar, Pink, for Ornamenting Sweet Dishes {see Pink Sugar). Sugar Roly-poly.—Make a good suet ciust; roll it out as is usual in making roly- poly pudding, and instead of jam spread brown sugar upon it. Finish in title usual way, or send melted butter sweetened with sugar and flavoured with vinegar or lemon-juice to table with it. Sugar, Small Ornaments of.—Soak a little gum tragacanth in water. Make it into a paste by mixing double refined powdered sugar upon it. Colour this with cochineal, spinach- juice, yolk of egg, chocolate, or indigo, &c., to give it the desired tinge, and mould it to any shape. Pretty ornaments may be thus made for cakes and sweet dishes. Sugar, Varieties of. —The sugar met with in commerce is usually of four kinds— brown, or muscovado sugar, clayed sugar, re- fined or loaf sugar, and sugar candy. The dif- ference between one sort of sugar and another depends altogether on the diiferent -mode in which it is prepared. 1. Brown, or Muscovado Sugar.—The plants or canes being crushed in a mill, the juice having passed through a strainer is collected in the clarifier, where it is fiLrst exposed to the action of a gentle fire, after being " tempered" (mixed \vith alkali) for the purpose of facili- tating the separation of the Hquor from its impurities. It is then conveyed into the large evaporating copper, and successively into two others, each of smaller size, the superintending boiler freeing it, during the process, from the scum and feculent matters which rise to the surface. The syrup then reaches the last cop- per vessel, called the " striking tache," where it is boiled tiU sufficiently concentrated to be capable of granulating in the cooler, whence it is transferred with the least possible delay to prevent charring. Here it soon ceases to be a liquid, and when fuUy crystallised is put into hogsheads (called "potting") placed on their ends in the curing-house, with several aper- tures in their bottoms, through which the molasses drain into a cistern below. In this state they remain till properly cured, when the casks are filled up and prepared for shipment. 2. Clayed Sugar is prepared by taking the juice, as in the case of muscovado sugar, when boiled to a proper consistency, and pouring it into conical pots with the apex downwards. These pots have a hole at the lower extremity, through which the molasses or syrup is allowed to drain. After this draining has continued for some time a stratum of moistened clay is spread over the surface of the pots, the moisture of which, percolating through the mass, is found to contribute powerfully to its purification. 3. Refined Sugar may be prepared from mus- covado or clayed sugar by re-dissolving the sugar in water, and after boiling it with some purifying substance, pouring it as before into conical pots, which are again covered with moistened clay. A repetition of this process produces double-refined sugar; but a variety of improved processes are now resorted to. 4. Sugar Candy. — Solutions of brown or clayed sugar boiled until they become thick, and then removed into a hot room, formed upon sticks or strings put into the vessels for that purpose into crj'stals or candy. Sugar Vinegar.—Put eight pounds of the coarsest and cheapest moist sugar into five gallons of water. Stir the liquor well, boil it, skimming carefully till the scum ceases to rise. Pour it into a cask, and when it is luke- warm put into it a thick piece of toast well- covered with fresh yeast. Leave it open for four or five days, then paste a piece of paper over the bung-hole, and prick it in three or four places with a pin. Keep it in a warm dry place till it is ready, then draw it off, and bottle it. Before bottUng it, boil it a quarter of a minute, as this wiU keep it from becoming thick and cloudy. The vessels containii^g the vinegar should not be quite filled, nor should the vinegar be kept entirely from the air. If