( 1092 ) VIN VIN from tlio loavos. Place thorn in a liirgo tub, and pour upon thorn boiling water in the proportion of two gallons of water to ten pounds of loaves. Let them infuse for twenty-four liours. Drain them, and press the leaves strongly to extra(jt all the juice from them. Pour an additional gallon of water upon them, and again press them. Dissolve in the mi.xed liquor sugar and tartar, allowing seven pounds of sugar and one ounce of tartar for every ten pounds of leaves. Cover the tub with a blanket, place a board upon that, and leave the liquor in a warm situa- tion for some hours. Draw it off into the small Cixsk in wliich it is to ferment, and each day add a little of the superfluous juice, so as to keep the liquor near the bung-hole. AVhen the fermenta- tion ceases, which will be when the hissing sound grows less, drive in the bung, and bore a hole by its sido for the vent-peg. This peg may be loosened a little every two days for ten days, to keep the cask from bursting. Keep the wine in a cool cellar tiU December. Eack it into a fresh cask, and bottle during March. The leaves of vines from which no fruit is expected may be utilised in this way. Vinegar.—Vinegar is an acid liquid, ob- tained by fermentation, and, when either plain or flavoui-ed, used largely in cookery. White wine vinegar is generally considered the best. It is by no means the most wholesome. Bordeaux vinegar is perhaps to be preferred to any other for salads, sauces, and home-made pickles, and other preparations for which common vinegar is too strong in flavour. It may be obtained by order from any grocer. Vinegar may be economically made at home, either witha "S'inegar plant or with sugar and water {see Sugar Vinegar), or with sour wine, or even strong sour beer. All that is necessary is to provide at first a small cask of good vinegar, to keep it in a place where the temperature is mild, and, as it is drawn off, to fiU it, and also to keep it always filled up wdth spoUed or sour wine. If a cask is chosen which has not contained vinegar before, a large bottleful of boiling vine- gar should be poured into it, shaken about till cold, and left in it for some hours. Vinegar may be made, too, from the pulp and husks of fruit which have been xised for making wine. To make it, pour boiling water on the refuse; let it stand some hours, and stir occasionally till the taste is completely drawn from the fruit. Strain the liquor, and add to every gallon a pound of strong coarse sugar and a table- spoonful of yeast. Let it work four or five days, put it into a vinegar cask, cover the bung- hole with a piece of tile or slate, and leave it in a warm situation for ten or twelve months till the vinegar is made. Put it in a cool place, and if the vinegar is not clear and bright, mix a little dissolved isinglass with it. Bung it up, or bottle for use. Vinegar made from the refuse of raisin wine is excellent {see Raisin "Wine Vinegar). Vinegar was known for many ages before any other acid. It is mentioned by iloses, and indeed seems to have been common among the Israelites and other Eastern nations at a verj' early period. It was at first made from Avine, and the formation of wine vinegar is probably as ancient as the liquor itself from which it was produced, altliough the improvement of the process lias boon the i-csult of the observa- tion of ages. Vinegar was much in use among the Greeks and liomaiis, wlio employed it both in their cookery as a luxuiy and as a medicine. It w^as found higlily useful in their armies; the soldiers being always obliged to carry some, for the purpose of mixing a little with water to obtain a gi-ateful drink both cooling and excel- lent to quench thirst. The practice is stUl fol- lowed in some of the warmer parts of Europe ; particularly among the Spanish peasantry, who are accustomed to mix about a gill of wine vinegar with a gallon of water and a tea- spoonful of salt for a common beverage; and with this drink alone, and bread, they frequently sustain the labours of the field, exposed to the heat of the sun in their warm climate, and are as healthy and athletic a race as any in Europe. Recipes for the following vinegars will be found imder their respective headings:— American {see Vine- gar, American) Basil {see Vinegar, Basil) Camp Cayenne Celery Chilli Cider Cider {see also Vine- gar, Cider) Colourless {see Vine- gar, Colourless) Cucumber Cucumber {see also Vinegar, Cucumber) Elder Flower and Tarragon Eschalot {see Shallot) Garlic Gooseberry Green Mint Harvey's, or Camp Herbs, Vinegar of Honey Horseradish lilADE FROM THE VlNE- GAR Plant Vine- gar, made, &c.) Malt {see Vinegar, Malt) Mint {see also Green Mint) Mulberry Nasturtium Pepper Raisin Wine Raspberry Shallot Sugar SuGiiR {see also Vine- gar, Sugar) Tarragon Violet {see Vinegar, Violet) W^ALNUT Vinegar, Adulteration of.—The prin- cipal adulterations of vinegar are : — dilution with water; the addition of sulpLuric acid; the substitution of pjToHgneous for acetic acid; the use of burnt sugar as a colouring agent; and occasionally the addition of acrid sub- stances, as chillies and grains of Paradise. It is a curious fact, that although the vinegar maker obtains his malt vinegar without colour, he is obliged to add burnt sugar to colour it, in order to satisfy the public taste. This is a harmless addition, but it is one of those things which illusti-ate a feature in the adulteration of food, and that is, that a great deal of it is done to please the public taste. Vinegar, American.—Stir half a gallon of molasses into three gallons of boiling water, set it aside to cool; then add half a pint of fresh yeast, put it into the vinegar cask, and let it stand in a warm place for twenty-four hours; then put it in the sun. The bung-hole must not be quite closed, but covered with a little linen to keep out the insects. It will be ready