SCO ( 844 ) SEA evaponites more quickly and equably than it does froui a bowl, aud the porridge can be eaten sooner after cooking, and the aoonor it is eaten the plcasanter it tastes. Scotch Soup.—Take four pounds of the shin of beef or knuckle of veal. Put it into a stewpau, pour over it as much cold water as will cover it, add four ounces of pearl barley, and let all sinurier gently together for an hour. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and when no more appears, throw in a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a dozen outer sticks of celery, two onions, two large turnips cut into dice, and a little popper and salt. Add gradually another quart of water, and simmer the soup again until the vegetables are tender. Take up the meat, and serve it on a separate dish. Serve the soup without straining and as hot as possible. A fowl is occasionally stewed in the soup, and served with it. Time, about two and a half hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Scrap.—Scraps are the little pieces of leaf or flead left undjssolved when the inner fat of a pig is melted down for lard. If carefully prepared, these pieces may be used for making common cakes for nursery use; if burnt they axe good for nothing. The best way of melt- ing the fat is to cut it up and put it in a jar, and then place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, which should be kept boiling imtil the fat is dissolved. In covmtry places scraps are utilised by economical housekeepers, and served with baked potatoes and mustard sauce as a relish for breakfast or supper. Scrap Cakes.—Take the scraps which remain after melting down a pound of leaf or flead. Put these into a bowl, slice them, and rub them into three-quarters of a poimd of flour. Add a pinch of salt, four ounces of picked and diied currants, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, half an ounce of candied peel finely minced, and a little grated nutmeg. Ilix the ingredients thoroughly, and moisten them with as much cold water as will make a hght paste. EoU this out, stamp it into round cakes, and bake these in a quick oven. A spoonful of baking-powder may be added or not. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the scraps, 6d. Screw, Bottle-jack and {see Bottle-jack and Screw). Scurvy Grass. — This is found wild in Bome marshy districts of our country, but probably it was first introduced into our gar- dens from Holland, where it grows very plenti- fully. The leaves of this plant are exceedingly pungent, therefore the best way of eating them 13 between bread and butter, as by this means they are rendered less offensive to the palate, and their whole virtues, which are very con- siderable, arc taken into the stomach. Sea Bass.—Bass is a name given to several kinds of fish, aU of which are excellent for food. Sometimes a kind of perch is thus named. In North America the name denotes a striped fish of good size, and which often weighs as much as fifteen pounds; while the sea bass is a striped fish with a large head, which grows to two or throe pounds weight, and which is never found in fresh water. All these varieties tawte well, aud may either be boiled or fried like other fish. Sea Beet.—The sea beet is a plant growing on many parts of our coasts. It belongs to the same natural family as the spinach, and is probably the original form of the cultivated beet and mangold-wurzel. The leaves are large, and when boiled resemble spiimch in flavour. The plant grows naturally on clialk, but is much improved by being grown in garden- ground. If pknted in rich soil the leaves are finer, and the flavour is scarcely distinguishable from that of spinach. A regular supply can also be obtained until late in the season by gathering the leaves in succession as they gi ow. In many parts of Ireland they are collected by the poor, and eaten as food. Sea Bindweed. — The sea bindweed is common on our sea coasts, where the natives often gather the young shoots, and pickle them in the same way as samphire. Before being pickled they have a salt, bitterish taste. Sea Bream.—This fish, which grows to the length of sixteen to twenty inches, though handsome in appearance, is not very higlily esteemed. It is best when boiled. {See Bkeah.) SEA BREAU, Sea Dragon {Vives).—The sea dragon is a fish seldom eaten in England, but in France it is often sent to table. It is broiled, and served up with butter of anchovies, maitre d'hntel sauce, or provemjale sauce. Towards the gills, it should be observed, there is a venomous bone. Sea Holly.—This is a plant foimd upon the sea coasts of many parts of England. It is a perennial, with a long, tough, creeping root, wMch sends forth several roundish, bluish prickly leaves, standing on long footstalks, and mostly lodged on the ground. The roots have a pleasant, sweetish taste, mixed with a slight degree of warmth and acrimony. They are candied and eaten for disorders of the lungs.