( 686 ) PLU PLU about the size of a lai'go ogg, place thorn in rows upon a buttered baking-tin, with fully three inches between thorn, and set them before the fire for about ton minutes to rise. Bake in a brisk ovon for about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for about throe dozen buns. Plum Buns without Yeast, Plain- Mix thoroughly a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda with a tea-spoonful of tartaric acid. Rub this and half a tea-spoonful of salt into two pounds of flour. Work in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and add a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of washed and dried currants, and, if liked, a few caraway seeds. Make a hole ia the centre of the flour, and pour into this two eggs which have been well beaten and mixed with a pint of lukewarm milk. Stir all quickly with a knife, and when the dough is ready mould it into bims, place these on a buttered baking-tiii, and bake in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour or more. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for about two dozen buns. Plum Cake.—Mix a piach of salt and a dessert-spoonful of baking-powder with one poimd of flour. Rub into this a quarter of a pound of good beef dripping, and add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of picked and dried currants, one oimce of finely minced lemon-peel, and half a nutmeg grated. Make the mixture into a stiff dough with new milk, pour it into a buttered tin, and bake imme- diately for about an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. Plum Cake {see Currant Cakes). Plum Cake (another way).—Beat one pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs, two pounds of best flour, one pound of currants, one poimd of sugar, five heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking- powder, and a pinch of salt. Mix rather lightly with lukewarm milk. Put the dough into buttered tins, and bake immediately. This cake is very good, but does not improve with keeping more than a day or two. Time to bake, one or two hours, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for two or three cakes. Plum Cake, Excellent. — Mix three tea-spoonfuls of baking powder and half a tea- spoonful of salt with one pound of flour. Rub into this half a pound of butter, lard, or sweet beef dripping, or portions of each. Add three- quarters of a poimd of washed, dried, and picked currants, a quarter of a pound of stoned and chopped raisins, half a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of candied peel cut into narrow strips, and a small nutmeg grated. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Whisk two eggs for five or six minutes. Mix with them four drops of almond essence and a little milk now-milk-warm. Stir this into the flour, and add as much milk as will make it into a light dough. Put it into a large buttered tin, or two small ones, and bake im- mediately for one or two hours, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for a good-sized cake. Plum Cake made with Soda.—Rub a quai-tor of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, half a poimd of sugar, half a pound of washed and dried currants, and two ounces of cjindiod pool cut into shreds. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, then beat them into a paste with half a pint of milk. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in two table- spoonfuls of warm milk. Stir this into the dough, and beat it again thoroughly. Put it into a buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven from an hour and a half to two hours. Sufficient for a good-sized cake. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Plum Cake made with Soda (another way).—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Add two eggs thoroughly whisked, four ounces of powdered sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of warm milk. Beat the batter thoroughly, then work in gradually a pound of best flour and a quarter of a pound of washed and dried currants. Beat the dough thoroughly for several minutes, pour it into a buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven for about an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized tin. Plum Cake, New York.—Prepare all the ingredients before beginning to mix the cake. First of all, wash and pick two poimds of currants, and put them to dry. l^Iix thoroughly a quarter of an ounce each of ground cloves, ground cinnamon, ground mace, and grated nutmeg. Cut a pound of citron into thin strips. Stone two pounds of raisins, and chop them slightly. Beat separately the yolks and whites of eight eggs. Beat a pound of butter to a Smooth cream ; add a pound of sugar, the eight eggs, and, very gradually, keeping on beating all the time, one pound of flour, two pounds of raisins, two poimds of currants, the powdered spice, and as much water as will make a smooth batter. If preferred, a wine-glassful of brandy or of rose-water and a wine-glassful of orange- flower water may be used instead of the plain water. Beat the cake fuUy three-quarters of an hour. Line the tins with two folds of buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate ovep. Two or three folds of paper should be placed under and over the cake, to prevent it burning. This cake may be iced according to the directions which follow. Time to bake, about four hours if made in one cake. Probable cost, 6s., exclusive of the brandy or rose-water. Sufficient for one large or three small cakes. Plum Cake, Plain, for Family use. —Take three pounds of best flour, and mix with it a dessert-spoonful of salt. Make a hole in the centre, and pour in an ounce of German yeast, which has been gradually and perfectly moistened and blended with half a pint of lukewarm water. Stir to this as much of the surrounding flour as will make a batter, then throw a cloth over the bowl, and put it near the fire for about an hour. When the yeast has risen to the top of the flour, cut up half a pound of butter, lard, or good beef dripping. Dissolve this in half a pint of hot nulk, and add as much cold milk as v.oil make