TXJB TUB ( 1021 ) Kemove the brains, and lay them aside; wash the head in several waters, and let it soak in cold spring water for an hour. Put it into a stewpan, cover with cold water, let it boil gently for an houi-, and carefiilly remove the scum as it rises. Cut the meat from the bones, and divide it with the tongue into small neat squares of about an inch. Let these cool, put them into a saucepan, cover with two quarts of stock, and let them boil gently until they are tender without being overdone. Melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan, and put in three ounces of lean, imdressed ham cut into dice, a sliced carrot, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, of which two-fifths shall be sweet marjoram, two-fifths basil, and one-fifth thyme, two chopped onions, and one or two chopped mushrooms when they are to be had. Stir these over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour over them a pint of stock, and let them simmer gently for two hours. Moisten two table-spoonfuls of flour with a little cold stock, and add this to the seasoning stock. Let it boil; add the remainder of the stock, and rub the soup through a fine hair sieve. Put it back into the saucepan with the pieces of mea*, boil aU gently together for a few minutes, add a glassful of wine, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper if required. Have the forcemeat balls ready prepared, put them into the tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve very hot. Time, six or seven hours. Probable cost, calf's head, uncertain. Sufiicient for a dozen persons or more. Turtle Soup, Mock (another way).—See Calf's Head, Mock Turtle Soup of; and also Mock Turtle Soup. Turtle Soup, Mock, Brain Balls for.—Wash the brains in two or three waters, and free them from skin and fibre. Throw them into boiling water, and let them boU for ten minutes. Take them up, and ]3ut them into cold water for a minute or two. Afterwai'ds drain them, and pound them in a mortar with a tea-spoonful of chopped sage, or a little savory, or lemon thyme, and pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg, make it up into small balls the size of a child's marble, dip these twice into beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly brownojd. Drain them, and add them to the soup. Time, two or three minutes to fry the balls. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity, exclusive of the trains. Sufficient, one brain ball to each guest. Turtle Soup, Mock, Clear.—Prepare, soak, and parboil the head as in last recipe but one. Cut the meat into neat squares, and set it aside, simmer the herbs and vegetables in a pint of stock for two hourH, and afterwards strain it through a tamis; the flour must of course be omitted. Add it to the rest of the stock, and clarify this by stirring into it when cool the whites of two eggs mixed with a little water, whisking it over the fire till it boils, boiling gently for half an hour, letting it stand to settlo for a q^uartcr of an hour, then straining it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. Put the pieces of call's head into the soup, boil them gently till tender, add a glassful of good wine and a little lemon-juice, and serve very hot. A few quenelles should be served with the soup. Time, six or seven hours. Turtle Soup, Mock, Curry Balls for.—liub a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a handful of finely-grated bread- crimibs, and add the yolk of an egg boiled hard. Pound the mixture in a mortar to a smooth paste, season with curry powder, and make it up into small balls the size of a nutmeg. Throw these into boiling water till firm, diuin and serve them in the soup. Time to boil, two minutes. Probable cost, 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient, at least one ball should be served to each guest. Turtle Soup, Mock (easy way of making a small quantity). — Take some stock made from bones or the liquor in which meat has been boiled. Boil it with fresh vegetables, herbs, and spices till it is pleasantly flavoured, and strain carefully. Procure a tin of mock turtle soup. Boil this up with a Uttle more than an equal quantity of the flavoured stock. When it is quite hot throw a claret-giassful of madeira or good sherry into it, and serve very hot with one or two cut lemons on a dish. The mixture of the stock made from fresh vegetables with the preserved soup will correct the shght taste of the tin which is the only objection which can be urged against it, and when a small quantity only of soup is required it will save time, trouble, and expense to make it in this way, rather than to prepare it at home. When there is no stock in the house, the vegetables and seasoning may be boiled in water, but of coiirse the soup -ndll not be so good as if stock were used. "Time, one hour to flavour the stock. Probable cost, a tin of. mock turtle, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turtle Soup, Mock, Egg Balls for.— Bon f oiir eggs till they are hard. Put them into cold water, and when they are cold pound the yolks in a mortar with a tea-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Moisten the mixture with the yolk of a raw egg. Form it into balls the size of a small nutmeg, throw these into boiHng water, let them boil for two minutes, drain them on a sieve, and sei-ve in the soup. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient, one egg ball should be served to each guest. Turtle Soup, Mock (made with calf's head).—This soup should be prepared the day before it is wanted. Take half a calf's head, fresh and with the skin on. Remove the brains, wash the head in several waters, and after- wards let it soak in cold water for an hour. Put it in a stewpan, pour over it a gallon of cold stock made from bones, and let it sim- mer very gently for an hour. As the scum rises remove it carefuUv. Take up the head, and let it get partly cold; then cut the meat from the bones, and c^ivide it and the tongue into pieces an inch and a quarter square. Be careful that the skin, which is a most valuable