( 679.^ PIS 2s. lOd. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of cream. Pistachio Ice Cream.—Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, and pound them to a smooth paste with a few drops of rose-water. Beat the yolks of six eggs, and pour over them a pint and a half of boiling milk; add four ounces of powdered sugar, and stir the custard over the fire until it begins to thicken; then pour it out, and when cool stii- into it the pounded pistachios and a tea-spoonful of spinach colouring. Pass the whole through a sieve; mould and freeze. If preferred, the pistachio paste can be mixed with cream instead of custard. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boU the custard. Sufficient for a quart of ice cream. Probable cost, 2s. PistacMo KernelSjEurnt—Blanchand peel a quarter of a pound of freshly imported pistachio kernels, and put them in a gentle oven until they are quite dry and hot through. Put half a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepaii with just enough water to dissolve it, and add a few drops of vanilla flavouring and of spinach juice. Let the sugar boil until it is nearly, but not quite, brittle; then take the saucepan from the fire, throw in the pis- tachios, and stir them about in the sugar imtil they are well covered with it, taking care that the sugar does not stick to the sides of the pan. Turn all out of the pan, and lay the kernels on a sieve; cover them over, and leave them for a few minutes. Pick the sugar from them, put it again into the pan with enough water to dissolve it, and boil again imtil it reaches the same point as before. Throw in the kernels, stir them about, and when they are once more covered take them out; repeat the operation a third time, until the kernels are twice their original size, when they are ready for use. If required, a few more drops of spinach colouring may be put in the last time of boiling. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, pistachios, 4s. per pound. Pistachio Macaroons. — Blanch seven ounces of pistachios and seven ounces of Jordan almonds, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding the white of an egg —a few drops at a time. Put with these ingredients a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a table- spoonful of cura^oa, and a tea-spoonful of spinach juice for colouring. When the mixture is pounded to a smooth but firm paste, form it into balls nearly an inch in diameter, and lay those on a baking-sheet. Leave a little distance betwficn the macaroons, and bake in a gentle ovon until they are hard and set. Turn them upside down, and brush the back of the baking- sheot with a little water, which will make it easier to lift off the macaroons. Keep them in a cool, dry place until wanted. Time to bake the macaroons, .about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28. per pound. Pistachio Nuts.—Pistachia or Pistachio nuts, (says McCuUoch), are the fruit of the Pistaehia vera, a kind of turpentine tree. It grows naturally in Arabia, Persia, and SjTna; al.so in Sicily, whence the nuts arc annually brought to us. They are oblong and pointed, about the size and shape of a filbert, including a kernel of a pale greenish colour, covered vnih a yellowish or reddish skin. They have a pleasant, sweet, unctuous taste, resembling that of sweet almonds; their principal difference from which consists in their having a greater degree of sweetness, accompanied with a light, grateful flavour; and in being more oily. Pis- tachios imported from the East are superior to those raised in Europe. Pistachio nuts have a tendency to become rancid. They are used on the Continent, in districts whore they are plentiful, in the manufacture of ragouts and various other dishes. When used in cookery they should be blanched and peeled like almonds. They are useful for garnishing. Plaice.—Plaice is a flat fish, and not very highly esteemed, excepting when soles, turbot, and salmon cannot be procured. It comes into season at the beginning of summer, and continues for the remainder of the year. It may be known to be in good condition when PLAICE. the body is thick and firm, the eyes bright, and the pale side shghtly tinged with pink. Plaice is never so nice as when filleted, dipped into egg and bread-crumbs, and fried. Probable cost, plaice, when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Plaice, Baked.—Empty one or two mode- rate-sized plaice, sprinkle a little salt over them, let them lie a couple of hours, then drain them, and dry them well with a soft cloth. Cut them across into slices about two inches wide; then mince finely half an ounce of onions, spread a portion of this at the bottom of a baking-dish, and put with it an ounce of buttei or good beef dripping, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put the slices of plaice upon this, and cover with the remainder of the onion mixed with a little chopped parsley and some finely grated bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper and salt if necessary, lay an ounce of fat broken into pieces on the top of the fish, and pour in at the side a wine-glassful of stock or water. Put the dish into a well-heated oven. As soon as the flesh seems to shrink from the bone it is done enough. Servo the plaice with its own gravy. If the fish is not suificiently browned in the baking, hold a red-hot shovel over it for a minute or two. Time to bake, from ten to twenty minutes, according to size and thickness. Probable cost, plaice, when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Plaice, Baked (au Gratin).—The larger the plaice for this purpose the better. Salt and drj' the fish, rinse it, and let it di-ain. Take an oval dish that ^viII hold the plaice and stand the