PIK ( 567 ) that is half engulfed in his capacious throat. It is told of one pike that it swallowed the head of a swan that was peacefully feeding under ■water, and, not being able to disgorge, both lost theii- lives. It is a highly prolific Hsh, and the multiplication of the pike is immense in the northern districts of Russia and Siberia, where they are captured on a wholesale scale, and con- stitute an article of commerce, being salted and dried for exportation. The names ■pike and jack refer only to the age of the fish. A jack is a pike •which has not attained more than three pounds in weight, or does not exceed twenty-four inches in length. Sir John Sinclair mentions as a fact that ought to be better known, that it is dangerous to swallow the bones of the pike, as they are shai-p and of so peculiarly hard a texture that they will not dissolve in the stomach. Pike may be plainly boiled, or cut into jimks, marinaded, and fried. They may be eaten with any sauce. The roe of the pike is made into a caviare, and in some countries the fish is salted and dried. It was at one time a very popular article of food. One pike was equal in value to two house-lambs. It is still considered a good fish for the table. Pike (a la Genevoise).—Pike which has lost its first freshness is sometimes stewed in rich stock and wine, so as to disguise its condition. For fresh fish this mode of cookery is quite unnecessary. Clean the pike weU, without scaling it. Put it into a fish-kettle just large enough to contain it, and strain over it as much hot court bouillon—mixed with whatever pro- portion of wine may be wished—as will cover it. Set it on the fire, and let it stew gentty until done enough. Drain the pike, and scale it thoroughly. Put it into a clean pan with as much of the liquid as will moisten it, and add half a pint of white stock, a little salt and cayenne, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Thicken the sauce with a tea-spoonful of roux, or with a small lump of butter rolled in flour. Let it boil until smooth. Lay the fish on a hot dish, strain part of the sauce over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Court bouillon is a sort of broth which is made to boil fresh-water fish in; it maj- be used several times if it is boiled up every four days with an additional pmt of water. Each successive boiling wiU make it richer. It is prepared as follows: — Boil a sliced carrot, an onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a dozen peppercorns, half a dozen cloves, and a shaUot, with an ounce of fresh butter, for ten minutes. Add two quarts of water and half a pint of A^negar, and simmer the liquid gently lor an hour. Strain it, and, if liked, before using it, mix a little light wine with it. This bouillon will be found an excellent foundation for fish sauces. Some cooks pour boiling vinegar over the pike, and let it lie in it for two or three days before dressing as above. Time to boil according to size. A medium-sized pike wUi take halt an hour. When the flesh wiU leave the bones easily the fish is done enough. . Pike, Baked.—Take a fresh pike weigh- ing not less than four, nor more than eight, poumls. Wash it thoroughly, and scale it. The best way to do this is to poui* boiling v/ater over it until the scales look dull, then plunge it at once in cold water, and immediately remove the scales with the back of a knife. Wipe the fish dry in every part, fiU it -with a good veal stufling, or oyster stuffing, or with forcemeat {see Pike, Stuffing for). Truss it in a circle by tying the head and tail together, passing the tail between the jaws. Put it into a shallow circular dish, lay half a pound of butter broken into small pieces here and there upon it, and put with it a pint of broth or water, or flour and water, a minced shaUot, and a little chopped parsley. Put it into a moderate oven, and bake until done enough. Baste frequently with the gravy, and be care- ful that the pike is gently cooked, or it will be dry and unpalatable. When it is done, lift the fish out very carefully, and put it on a hot dish; then strain the gravy, thicken it with two ounces of butter mixed with two ounces of flour, add a table-spoonful of mushi-oom ket- chup, or a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a little salt and cayenne, a glass of sherry, and two or three chopped gherkins. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, pour part of it over the pike, and send the rest to table in a tureen. If pre- .ferred, the pike may be baked without being stufl'ed. Less time will then be required to cook it. Time to bake a moderate-sized fish, thirty to forty minutes; for a large fish allow one hour to one hour and a quarter. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, un- certain. It is, of course, impossible to give the exact time required for baking and roasting pike, as it varies witn the size of the fish. It may be known, however, that when the flesh leaves the bone easily in the thickest part it is done enough. As pike is naturally a very dry fish it is important that it should be taken out of the oven as soon as, though not before, it is done. Pike, Baked (another way).—Wash, scale, and empty the fish, and dry it perfectly in every part. YiU. it or not with forcemeat, and skewer it with, its tail in its mouth. If the fish is not stuffed, sprinkle a little salt and cayenne in the iaside, and place an ounce of butter there. Egg and bread-crumb it twice. Season the bread- crumbs with salt and cayenne, and mix with them a thii-d of their quantity in shred parsley. Pour a little clarified butter over the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay a buttered paper over the dish. Any good fish sauce may be sent to table with pike dressed in this way. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes for a moderate-sized fish. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pike, Baked (another way).—Prepare the flesh of a pike as in the next recipe. Dip the slices m claiifled butter, and afterwai'ds into highly-seasoned bread-crumbs. Put them into a thickly-buttered baking-dish, and lay on them a coating of beaten egg with a spoon. Bake m a moderate oven until they are lightly browned, then serve them on a hot dish, with lemon-juice squeezed over them. If there is any danger that the fish will colour too deeply before It is done enough, lay a buttered paper over the dish. Time to bake, about half an