( 1145 ) WOO the whole on the fire till the milk is made thick, put it through a tammy, and mask the neifjos with that sauce. Winter Soup.—Break into small pieces the bones of a joint of dressed beef which weighed six or seven poimds before it was roasted. Put these into a stewpan, pour over them four quarts of cold water, or the liquor in which fresh beef or mutton has been boiled, and add two large onions sliced, a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of salt. Biing the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, draw it back, and let it simmer gently till the bones are quite clean. Strain the liquor, let it go cold, and free it entirely from fat. "Wash and scrape eight large carrots. Slice the red part only very thinly. Put the slices into a stewpan with three or four sticks of celery cut up small, and a turnip cut into dice. Place a large lump of dripping or fresh butter upon the vegetables, cover the saucepan closely, and steam the vegetables for quarter of an hour or more. Shake the saucepan occasionally to keep them from burning. Pour over them as much of the stock from the bones as will cover them, and let them simmer tUl quite tender. Eub them through a hair sieve. Add to the pulp as much stock as wiU make the soup of the consistency of thick cream; let it boil again, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve very hot. Very small suet dumplings, lightly made and boiled separately in water, are sometimes served in winter soups. Time, four hours to simmer the bones. Probable cost, exclusive of the bones, lOd. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Winter Soup, Clear.—A short time be- foi-e it is wanted, clarify some stock made from fresh meat {see Clear Soup). Cut the red part of two large carrots and a turnip into quarter- inch dice. Divide two white stalks of celery into shreds, and skin a dozen button-onions. Half boil the vegetables in salted water to which a little sugar has been added. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan with about three pints of the clear stock, boiling.- Let them simmer till tender, and serve. Winter Squash.—The squash is a kind of gourd, which is cultivated in America as an article of food. To dress it, pare a large yeUow squash, remove the strings and seeds from the inside, and cut it into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan, pour upon them as much hot water as will cover them, and simmer gently till tender. Drain them in a colander, and mash them till quite smooth. Season the mash with pepper and salt, and mix a slice of fresh butter into it. Put it into a tureen, dot it over with small spots of pepper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Time to simmer the squash, half an hour or.more. Winter Squash (an American recipe).— Winter squashes are stewed in the same way as others, but they must remain on the fire a little longer. Cut up the squashes in pieces of an mch thick, having first pared the squash; if old, extract the seeds and boil the pieces until thfy break, mash thorn with a spoon, boil them a little longer, and when they are done squeeze them through a colander. Llix them with a little salt and a small quantity of butter. If kept in a dry place winter squashes will re- main good all the winter, but if they are once frozen they lose their flavour and are apt to decay. They are richer and firmer than the summer kind. Wisdom Soup.—Take a pound of beef, a pound of veal, and a pound of mutton, cut and hacked aU. to pieces, put it into two gallons of water with an old cock beat to pieces, a piece of carrot, the upper crust of a penny loaf toasted very crisp, a little bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, a tea-spoonful of black and one of white pepper, four or five blades of mace, and four cloves; cover it and stew over a slow fire until half is wasted, then strain it off and put it into a clean saucepan with two or three large spoonfuls of raspings clean sifted, half an oimce of truflles and morels, three or four heads of celery cut small, an ox's palate first boiled tender and cut into small pieces, a few cocks'- combs, and a few of the little hearts of young savoys; cover it close, and let it simmer very softly over a slow fire two hours; then have ready a French roU fried, and a few forcemeat balls fried, put them in your dish and pour in your soup. You may boU a leg of veal, and a leg of beef, and as many fine things as you like, but this is likely to be rich and high enough. You may leave out the cocks'-combs, palates, and truffles, &c., if you don't like them —it will be good soup without them; and if you would have your soup very clear don't put in the raspings. Vermicelli is good in it—an ounce put in just before you take it up; let it boU four or five minutes. You may make this soup of beef or veal alone, just as you fancy. A leg of beef will do without either veal, mutton, or fowl. Witches, Bermuda (see Bermuda Witches). Wolfram Ketchup.—Into two gallons of very stale ale—the stronger the better—put a pound and a half of anchovies washed and cleansed from the entrails, half an ounce of mace, the same quantity of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, the same quantity of long pepper, four chillies, half a dozen lumps of ginger, a pound of shallots, six lumps of sugar, and two quarts and a half of large mushrooms weU rubbed and picked. BoU all this slowly m a well-tinned stewpan during an hour, then run the liquor through a jelly-bag. Let it stand until cold, then bottle it, cork the bottles weU, tie a bit of bladder over each cork, and cover the bladder with sealing-wax. This is the most delicious of fish sauces, and one table- spoonful of it wiU suffice for a pint of melted butter. This ketchup will keep good more than twenty years. Wonders.—These cakes are made thus: lake one table-spoonful of butter, one of sugar, one egg and a little spice. Mix stiff with flour, and boil in lard. • Br«ad made from.—That it 18 possible to make a palatable and nutritious bread from the dry ligneous pari; of wood, was shown many years ago by Professor Autenrieth