WHE ( 1109 ) WHE climate at the greatest uncertainty and expense; but still we cultivate it. "Wheat docs not ap- pear to have a larger quantity of nutritive matter: it contains less protein than oats, and very little more than Indian meal; a consider- able quantity, however, more than rice, but not a much larger quantity than barley-meal. It seems, then, not so much its composition, as the power it possesses of making a light loaf by fer- mentation, which causes it to be the favourite form of food. Wheat and Maize Bread.—Mix seven pounds of Indian meal with double its weight in wheaten flour, and add four ounces of salt. Mix a pint and a half of fresh yeast with two quarts of boiling water. Make a hollow in the flour without touching the bottom of the bowl, ponr in the yeast and stir into it as much flour as will make a thin batter. Sprinkle flour lightly on the surface of the batter, cover the bowl, and leave it on the hearth for an hour. Stir into it two additional quarts of boiling water, cover it again, and let it stand in a warm place for ten hours. Knead thoroughly, gash the surface with a knife, and let the dough rise a couple of hours longer till it is very light. Form it into loaves, put these into the tins, let them rise half an hour longer, and bake in a good oven. If the crust is hard, wrap the loaves in a towel as soon as they are taken from the oven. Bread made in this way is inexpen- sive and wholesome. It has a peculiar flavour which improves with acquaintance. Wheat and Rice Bread {see Bread, "V\Tieat and Eice). Wheatears.—These birds are in season from July to October. They should be dressed the day on which they are killed. Carefully pick and draw the birds, truss them Uke larks, put them on a bird-spit, or pass a long skewer WHEATEARS. from one bird to the other, and put the roasting- hook between them that they may hang side by side. Flour them, put them down to a clear fire, and baste plentifully with butter. When done, dish them upon fried bread, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon. Send bread sauce to table with them. Many cooks brush them over with yolk of egg and sprinkle bread- crumbs upon them before putting them down tc the fire. Time to roast the wheatears, about ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, tmcertain. Wheaten Bread, Wholesomeness of.—The chemical changes which flour under- goes during lUe process of making bread are not easily understood; for when the panary fermentation is completed, its properties are sp altered that we cannot obtain from it either fecula or gluten. Bread, therefore, differs widely from the flour of which it is composed, and, in fact, may be considered as a new sub- stance. It is easier of digestion than any other preparation of flour, and mixes more readily with water, but is considerably less nutritive. Newly-baked bread, however, swells in the stomach, and is far from being easily digested. Indeed, the process of fermentation does not appear to be completed tiU the bread is cold; for new bread differs from old, not only in its effects, but in its smell and taste. The best bread, says Dr. Coghan, is made of pure flour of good wheat, sufficiently lea- vened, somewhat salted, well moiilded, well baked, neither too new nor too old; that is to say, that it be at least a day and a night old, and not past four or flve days old, except the loaves be very great. Besides the nutritive qualities of bread, it prevents the bad effects which would result from the use of too much animal food, rich soup, and other concentrated food; and also serves to divide and give our aliment a proper bulk and consistence. It may be allowed to the stomach of the weakest patient, neither stimulates nor relaxes the system, and is justly called the staff of life. Whelks.—Procure the whelks alive if pos- sible. To cleanse them, put them into fresh WHELKS. water for several hours. Boil them in salt and water. They are hard and leathery in sub- stance, and wiU need to boil a long time. The small ones, which may be eaten as periwinkles, will require three-quarters of an hour; the large ones with shells as large as hens' eggs, one hour and a quarter. Large whelks, even after being thus boiled, are scarcely eatable;