( 1010 ) TUR TUR boils, put ill thv sHlos of meat, mid let them Bimnier until thoy are quito hot; but the sauce must not boil alior tlioy are added. Put the meat on a hot diah, pour the sauce over, and garnish the dish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time; iu>out an hour and a quarter to make the sauce; four or five minutes to heat the meiit. Probable cost, if milk bo used, 8d., exclusive of the cold turkey poult. Turkey Poult, To Roast—The turkey ^oult or young turkey is an excellent substitute for the fully-grown bird, as it is most easily obtained in summer and autumn, when the largo turkeys are out of season. The young ones may be said to be in season whenever they are large enough to be used. They may be roasted in the same way as a fully-grown bird. It is not usual to till them with forcemeat, though some epicures, regardless of expense, are partial to them when stuffed with truffles, and served with perigueux sauce. Tongue, bacon, or sausages are generally sent to table with them. Tui-key poults are trussed with the head tucked under the wing, and the legs twisted under like a duck. Unlike the grown bird, the feet may be left on, though the claws must be cut off. A turkey poult should be put down to a clear fire, liberally basted, and when done enough should be served on a dish garnished with watercress. Brown gravy and bread sauce should be sent to table with it. Time to roast, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, according to size. Turkey Poult, Truffled. - Fill the body of the bird with nicely-seasoned veal forcemeat, and add as many truffles as it may be wished to use, first cutting them into balls the size of a walnut. The trimmings of the truffles may be used to make sauce, or they may be minced and mixed with the forcemeat. Lard the breast of the bird, or, if this is not practicable, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, truss firmly, and put it down before a clear fire. Baste liberally, and serve truffle sauce or bread sauce with it. Time to roast, one hour or more, according to size. Turkey, Pulled.—Take the remains of a dressed turkej'. Cut off the legs, and score the meat in them and the gizzard at regular dis- tances. Season highly, as for devilled turkey, and set them aside. Remove the skin from the body, and pull the white meat from the bones in long flakes with a fork. Put the bones and trimmings of the turkey into a stew- pan with a pinch of powdered mace, a finely- minced shallot, the rind and strained juice of half a lemon, a pint of stock, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured; strain and skim it, thicken with white thickening or with a little flour and butter, and add a q>iarter of a pint of milk or cream. Let the gravy boil a few minutes, then put in the moat, and let it simmer again until the latter is quite hot, but do not let the gravy boil after the meat is added. WhUe the meat is simmering take the legs and gizzard already seasoned, dip them in clarified butter, and broil over a clear lire till they are lightly browned without being burnt. Put the pulled turkey with the aauce into the centre of a hot dish, lay tlie legs upon it, and serve very hot. The legs of the turkey should be turned every minute whilst they are being broiled. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold turkey, if milk is used. Sufficient for three or four persons. Turkey Rissoles.—Take the remains of cold-dressed turkey. Cut ofl: the meat, free it from skin and sinew, and weigh it. Mince finely, and with a pound of meat put a quarter of a jjound of grated tongue or lean ham, and a quai-ter of a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Add two ounces of clarified butter or two ounces of fat bacon finely minced, a boiled onion chopped small, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with the yolk of an egg. lloU out some puft' paste very thin, stamp it out in rounds, and lay a spoonful of meat on each round. Moisten the edges of the pastry, and draw them together at the top of the meat to form a ball. Dip these in beaten egg, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain on a sieve before the fire for a few minutes to free them from fat, and serve piled on a neatly-folded napkin. Time, five or six minutes to fry the rissoles. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the cold turkey. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey, Roast.—There are several me- thods of preparing a turkey for roasting. The bird may be simply trussed like a fowl, and roasted without being stuffed at all, and will be found excellent, the pure flavour of the bird being then presented unmixed with any taste that does not belong to it. When dressed in this way it should be served on a dish garnished with watercresses, and no other sauce than its own gravy should accompany it. The usual way of serving roast turkey, however, is to stuff it either with veal forcemeat, chestnuts, or sausage-meat, and to send it to table accom- panied by a string of sausages, bread sauce, and brown gravy, or chestnut sauce. Force- meat flavoured ■with oysters or mushrooms, and the accompanying sauces are more suitable for boiled- than roast turkey. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss the turkey. Tie a buttered paper over the breast, and hang the bird before a clear fire. Baste frequently whilst it is being roasted. Unless this point is attended to the meat wiU be di-y and tasteless. A quarter of an hour before the bird is taken down, remove the paper, dredge a little flour over the breast, and baste it well with cold butter. This will make the froth stronger than if hot dripping is used. Let it bro^n. brightly. Garnish with lemon and sausages, or forcemeat balls. Servo very hot. Time for a small turkey, an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half; for a moderate-sized turkey weighing ten pounds, about two hours; twelve to fourteen pounds, about two hours and a half. Probable cost, moderate-sized turkey, Ss. to Hs., excepting at Christmas. Turkey, Roast (another way).—Take a well-kept but perfectly sweet young hen turkey. Pluck, draw, and singe it caiefuUy,