PUR PUJN ( 672 ) of three lemons till tho yellow part is taken o£E, then add more sugar to make up the quantity to ten ounces. Strain over this the juice of six lemons, and put it into a scrupulously-clean baucepan, with a quarter of a pint of Jamaica rum, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a piece of ciiuianiuu, throe or four cloves, a little grated nutmei,', an ounce and a half of gelatine dissolved in ii pint of water. When the mixture is almost cold, whisk the whites of two oggs and stir them with their crushed shells briskly into the uiixturu. vSt;t i)w pan on tho fire and boil it gently for ten minutes. Lift it from the fire, put it down by the side, and lot it stand untouched for twenty minutes. Strain through a jelly-bag until the jelly is clear and bright, put it into a mould, and let it stand in a cool place till it is firm. Time, twelve hours to set. Probable cost, exclusive of the spirit, Is. per pint. SufiiciGnt for three pints of jelly. Punch Milk.—Cut off the thin yellow part of four fresh lemons and a Seville orange, and be careful not to take any of the white pith of the fruit, or it will make the punch bitter. Pour over this rind a pint of Jamaica rum, and let it stand, closely covered, for twelve hours. Strain the liquor, and mix with it a pint of lemon- juice and two pints of cold water, in which a pound of refined sugar has been dissolved, and add the whites of two eggs, beaten to a froth, three pints more of rum, a grated nutmeg, a pint of madeira, a pint of strong green tea, and a quarter of a pint of maraschino. Mix thoroughly, and pour over all a pint of milk, boUing hot. Let the punch stand a little time, then strain it through a flannel jelly-bag until it is quite bright, and either use it at once, or bottle it to put away. Punch, Poney.—Take a tea-cupfiil of very strong gunpowder tea. Rub the rind of a fresh lemon upon two or three lumps of sugar, and put them into it; add the strained juice of three lemons, a tea-spoonful of essence of cin- namon, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, half a pound of sugar dissolved in a quarter of a pint of water, a bottle of Chablis made hot, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a quarter of-a pint of rum, and a wine-glassful of rack. Mix the punch thoroughly, strain, and serve hot. Time, half an hour to prepare. Sufficient for a little more than a quart of punch. Punch Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Hub a large fresh lemon with two or three lumps of sugar till all the yellow part is taken off, then add more sugar to make up the weight to two ounces. Pour over this a glassful of sherry or madeira, and a glassful of brandy. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with two ounces of fresh butter, and add, gradually, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, the flavoured sugar, &c. Turn the whole into a saucepan, and whisk briskly over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken; serve very hot. The sauce must not reach the point of boiling. If liked, the eggs am be omitted, and the wine, «&:c., can bo mixed with half a pint of melted butter. Time, two or three minutes to boil tho sauce. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine and Immdy, lOd. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Punch Souffle.—Boat tlu-ee table-spoon- fuls of flour to a smooth paste with a little orange-flower water, and add thiee ounces of pounded sugar, slightly flavoured with lemon, and three ounces of ratafias, crushed to powder. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir in with them the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs. Butter a souffle-dish, fasten round it a high band of buttered paper to keep the souffle from falling over the top as it rises in the oven, and strew bread-crumbs over the inside. Beat up with tho mixture the whites of eleven oggs, which have been whisked to a firm froth, turn it into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Be careful to move the soulUe round in tho oven two or three times, that it may be equally baked. Serve tho moment it is done enough, and send a rich custard, flavoured with brandy, to table with it. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the custard. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Punch, Whiskey. — Make the sherbet according to either of the recipes given for hot punch, and add whiskey only, instead of the usual mixture of spirits. Pup ton, Apple {see Apple Pupton). Puree.—The puree of any vegetable or meat is prepared by simmering till the substance is sufficiently pulpy or soft to be passed through a horse-hair or tammy sieve. In the case of meat, it is sometimes necessary to beat in a pestle and mortar after simmering. The sieve is placed, bottom upwards, over a dish or tin, and with a wooden spoon or puree pressor the substance is worked through, and what passes thi-ough is called a puree. It is sometimes neces- sary to moisten with a Httle liquor, which faci- litates the passing of the puree. The puree of any vegetable stirred into a clear beef stock makes a soup, and gives it its characteristic name. Recipes for the following purees will be found under their respective headings:— Artichoke, Jeku- SAIiEM ' Carrots, Red Celery Chestnuts Eggs Game Green Peas Leveret Peas, Green Potatoes Sorrel Spinach Tomatoes Truffles Turnip, Brown Vegetable Mar- row Soup Woodcock. Puritan's Pudding.—Grate three ounces of stale crumb of bread. Put it into a bowl, with a pinch of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg, grated, an ounce of the kernel of a fresh cocoa- nut, finely-grated, two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered and sifted sugar, and an inch of thin lemon-rind. Mix these ingredients well to- gether, then pour over them a pint of milk, which has been bcjiten up with two well-whisked eggs. Let the crumbs soak for two hours or more. Beat the mixture well with a fork, pour it into a dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hoiir. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons.