swo ( 887 ) SNO Snow,—Recipes for the following snows will be found under their respective head- ings :— Apple Apple with Sponge- cake Egos as Snow Lemon Pancakes Potato Quince Rock, Snowy RunY UNDER Snow. Snow, Apple.—This is a Danish dish for dessert. Take twenty large apples, and bake them till tender enough to draw oflf the peel; rub them thi-ough a tamis ; add sugtir to taste, pounded cinnamon, and grated lemon-peel. Keep stirring always the same way for a quarter of an hour; beat up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, add it, and still keep stirring. Fix a hoop on a sheet of paper, butter it, and pour the snow in; bake in a very cool oven. Apple snow may be iced. Snowball Fritters.—Break three fresh eggs into a bowl, take out the specks, and beat them weU. Mix with them three-quarters of a pint of sour cream, and add gradually as much flour as will make a batter so stiff that a fork will stand upright in it. Stir into this a quarter of a pint of beer, and add a table- spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a few cardamom seeds. Make half a pound of butter or fat boiling hot in a saute-pan, drop the batter into this from the end of a spoon, and fry the snowballs till they are lightly set. Drain them on a sieve covered with blotting- jmper, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Sift powdered sugar thickly over them. The fat in which the fritters were fried should be clarified, and may be used for a similar purpose again and again. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Snowballs (a German recipe).—Take a pint and a half of milk, and set it on the fire. When it boils, throw in a few grated bitter almonds, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and two ounces of sugar. Continue stirring, and pour in eight or nine spoonfuls of flour mixed in a little milk, and keep stin-ing till it has become a stiff mass which falls from the spoon and saucepan. Take out the preparation, and have ready seven or eight eggs beat up, which add to the paste. Work all well together, butter a baking-tin, and with a spoon drop the paste on it in little balls, which will greatly swell in the baking. Put them in a moderately- heated oven, and when done strew them thickly with sugar. Snowballs, Apple {see Apple Snow- balls). Snowballs, Orange {see Orange Snow- halls). Snowballs, Kice. —No. l. Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters and pick out all imperfect grains. Throw it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil quickly for ten minutes; drain, and cool it. Pare five or six large baking apples, and carefully scoop the core without dividing them. Put into the hollow of each a little grated lemon- tind or cinnamon and sugar. Divide the rice into as many portions as there are apples, and spread each portion in a circular form on a separate cloth. Lay the fruit in the centre, and tie the cloth to cover the apple with the rice. Put the puddings into boiling water, and keep them boiling quickly until done enough. Turn the snowballs upon a hot dish, strew i)ow- dered sugar thickly over them, and send melted butter to table with them. If liked, oranges, skinned and cleared from the thick white skin, may be substituted for the apples. Time to boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost of snowballs. Id. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. No. 2. Wash and pick half a pound of rice; drain it, and put it into a saucepan, with a pinch of salt and about a quart of water. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the water is absorbed. Dip some small moulds or tea-cups into cold water for a moment; press the boiled rice into them, then turn them in shapes upon a dish, sift jjowdered sugar thickly over them, and send wine sauce or melted butter to table in a tureen. Time to boil, about an hour. Probable cost, 6d., ex- clusive of wine. Sufficient for four persons. Snowballs, Rice (anotherway).—See Rice Snowballs. Snow Cake.—Beat four ounces of freSh butter to cream; then add gradually four ounces of powdered sugar, a pinch of salt, half a pound of arrowroot, and any flavouring that may be liked—lemon, almond, or vanilla. Whisk the whites of three eggs to snow, stir them into the mixture, and beat it again till it is light and white. Butter a shallow mould oi tin with raised edges, pour in the batter, and bake in a gentle oven. It should not be allowed to acquire any colour. When done enough, let it cool a little, then with a sharji knife divide it into pieces about two inches square. Keep it in a cool, diy place. Time tc bake, about an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, varying with the quality of the arrowroot. Sufficient for a small cake. Snow Cheese.—Blanch an ounce and a haK of sweet almonds, pound them in a mor- tar, and add a table-spoonful of ratafia and two table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Stir the paste into a quart of thick cream, and add the strained juice of three lemons and as much white sugar as will sweeten the cream plea- santly. "V\Tiisk the mixture till it begins to thicken, then pour it into a mould, and set it in a cool place. In twelve hours it wiU be ready for turning out. Snow Cocoa-nut (to serve with moulded jeUy and jam).—Break up a cocoa-nut, pare off the brown skin, and throw the pieces of white meat into cold water for a short time. Gra te these on a coarse grater, and pile the snow lightly in a glass dish. Snow Custard (a German recipe).—Take a pint of milk, a pint of cream, quarter of a pound of white sugar, and a stick of cinnamon, and set them on the fire; when the prepara- tion begins to Ijoil, pour in the yolks of ten eggs which have been beaten up in"a few spoon- f Ills of cold milk; keep it well stirred all the time tin it begins again to boil • +.hen take out