( G42 ) POU layer ot forconioat half an inch in thickness 1 ut 8omo slices of trullloa on this, an.l then another layer of forcemeat. Roll the poulurd,! over, make the skin meet at the back, and shai..! It to ht the niouUl. Lny it hreast upnennust on the torcoineat in the pie. Sprinkle a little popper and salt over it, lay on it some slices of truffle, and cover with tho remainder of the torcomoat. Lay on the top some thin slices of fat bacon, put on tho lid, press it down, and pinch the edges together; brush over with egg, and ornament it; make a small hole with a knife 111 tho centre, tie a band of buttered jjaper round the pie, and bake in a moderate oven. In order to ascertain when it is sufficiently baked, pierce it to the centre with a knife or skewer, and if it is tender throughout it is done. Let it cool for half an hour, then pour into it, thi-ough the hole at the top, a quarter of a pint of savoury jelly reduced to gravy. This jelly may be made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the bird and of the meat, sea- soning the liquid nicely, and dissolving in it a Uttlo isinglass. Wlien quite cold, serve the pie on a napkin, garnish it with parsley, and carve it in slices the breadth of the pie and about the third of an inch thick. If liked, the truffles may be omitted, and slices of veal and bacon used in their place. Time to bake, two hours. Sufficient for a good-sized pie. Poularde with Rice.—Wash half a pound of best Carolina rice in several waters. Pluck and draw carefully a fine capon, and truss it for boiling. Put it into an oval stewpan with the rice which has been well drained, an onion stuck with two cloves, and as much nicely-flavoured broth as will cover the fowl. Simmer gently for an hour and a half; strain the gravy, and if it is not sufficiently re- duced set aside part of it, and use only as much as is required for sauce for the fowl. Skim the fat from the top. Put the rice upon the dish, lay the fowl upon it, and pour the sauce over all. This dish vsdll be improved if the sauce is thickened with flour, and made to look white by the addition of a little cream or new milk, but this \vi11 add to the expense. A small quantity only of sauce must be poured over the fowl or its appearance will be spoilt. Even without the cream this is a pleasing dish, and it is inexpensive and wholesome. Time to simmer the fowl, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 3s. to 5s. Sufficient for flve or six persons. Poulet a la Marengo.—Cut up a large fowl into neat joints. Put these side by side into a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, two shallots, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and four table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Move them about until they are nicely .browned. Lift them out, and keep them hot. Dredge an ounce of flour into the oil, and stir until it is quite smooth. Add a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, and stir the sauce over the fire until it is sufficiently thick to coat the spoon, remem- bering not to skim tho fat from the sauce. Put in tho pieces of (;hick(;n, and l(;t them got quite hot, hut the sauce must not boil after they are added. Serve on a hot dish, and strain the sauce over tho pieces of chicken. GarniA with fried bread and eggs fried in oil. 'J'ime to fry the chicken in the oil, Imlf an houi. I'robuble cost of cliicken, 2h. 6d. to Hn. Gd. Sufficient for two persouH. Poulet Blanc—Pluck and draw cfirefully a tender young fowl of good ni/e, and trusn it firmly for boiling. Put it into a stewpan with four ounces of butti;r i/ielted, and turn it over two or three times. Lih it out, and mix Kinootlily with tho butter two taljle-spooufubj of flour and as much weak veal stock as will nearly cover tho bird. Put in the fowl, and with it luilf a dozen small oruons, a dozen fresh mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a l;ay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a little pe]>per and salt. Let it simmer gently until it is done enough. Lift it out, and keep it hot for a few minutes. As quickly as possible strain the gravy, mix with it the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and stir over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, but it must not boil, or it will curdle. Serve it poured over the fowl, and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Time to boil the fowl, one hour and three-quarters or two hours, according to size. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Poulet en Cotelettes.—Chicken cutlets may either be made of the legs only of three or four fowls, the superior parts of which have been used in other ways, or a fresh chicken may be divided into cutlets. ^Vhen the legs only are used, cut out the thigh-bone, and leave the drumstick untouched. Cover the joints with shoes of fat bacon, and stew in nicely-seasoned stock until they are quite tender. Lift them out, put them between two dishes with a weight over them, and let them get quite cold. Trim them neatly, and rub them with a savoury powder made of a tea- spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, and the eighth of a small nutmeg grated. Dip them in beaten egg and then into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are Hghtly browned. These cutlets may either be served without sauce, with the juice of a lemon squeezed over them, or they may have white or brovm sauce poured round them. The sauce may be made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the chicken. If a whole chicken is used, the bones should be removed, and six cutlets should be made by flattening and shaping neatly the legs, wings, breast, and meriy-thought. They should then be rubbed with the savoury powder, egged, breaded, and fried, as above. Time, three or four minutes to fry the cutlets which have been already dressed; ten minutes to fry those from a fresh chicken. Probable cost of chickens, 28. 6d. to 38. 6d. each. Sufficient, allow two cutlets for each person. Poulette. Cucumbers a la {see Cucum- bers a la Poulette). Poulette Sauce*—Take three ounces of fresh butter ; cut from it a little piece the size of a nut, and melt the rest in a stewpan. Jlix three ouncoH of flour smoothly with it, and stir tho paste over tlie fire for f hroc minutes, then add gradually a pint of boiling stock. Stir the