VOL VOL ( 109G ) After it has been turned five times, brush the pastry over with lemon-juice, and when it is doubled for the last time, fold it in such a way that, when linished, it will be the exact size of the inside of the dish in which it is to be served, and a little more than an inch thick. Cut it evenly all round with a knife that has boon made hot in water, so as not to drtxg the pastry. Place a stewpan lid, or any other shape of a suitable size, within an inch and a half of the outer edge of the pastry, and with a sharp knife make an incision a quarter of an inch deep all round the edge of the lid. Press the inner circle away from the outer one with the point of the loiife to prevent them closing again; this inner circle, when baked, will fomi the cover of the vol-au-vent. Put the vol-au-vont in a well-heated oven; in half an hour or thrco-quai-ters of an hour, if it should appear baked through, take it out of the oven, lift up the cover with the point of a knife where it has been marked, and scoop out the soft crummy centre without at all injviring the walls of the case. It will be evident that if it should be injured in this way, the rich eauce of the ragout with which it is filled will ooze through the sides and spoil its appearance. Put it in the oven a few minutes longer to dry it, fill with the savoury mince, put the cover on, and serve on a napkin. Careful attention should be paid to the condition of the oven in which a vol-au-vent is baked: if it is not well heated, the pastry cannot possibly rise ; if the heat is too fierce, the surface wiU be set before the heat has penetrated through the pastry, and this also win keep it from rising. "When it has risen a couple of inches, and before it acquires any colour, cover the vol-au-vent with paper to keep it from browning too quickly. If acci- dentally the walls of the vol-au-vent should receive any injury, a little piece of pastry should be stuck upon the thin place with white of egg. The appearance of the vol-au-vent will be im- proved if it is brushed over with egg after it has risen in the oven. Time to bake the vol- au-vent, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient, three-quarters of a pound to one pound of puff paste for a good-sized vol- au-vent. VOL-AV-VENT. Vol-au-vent (a la Financiere).—Prepare a vol-au-vent case according to the instructions already given, bake it, lift off the cover, and dry the inside. FiU it with a financiere ragout, ornament the top with crayfish, cockscombs, and mushrooms; or, if preferred, simply place the cover on the top of the vol-au-vent, and serve. The ragout may be prepared as fol- lows :—Put into a stewpan equal quantities of sweetbread, forcemeat balls, and mushroomB, all dressed, with a few sUced truflles and cocks- combs if liked. Cover with tluck and rich brown sauce made of game, and add a glass- ful of sherry or madeira. Let them simmer very gently till they are heated throughout, and the ragout will be ready for the vol-au- vcnt. Time, three minutes to heat the ragout. Vol-au-vent (a la Normande). —Make a vol-au-vent case according to the instructions already given, bake it, lift ofl: the cover, and have ready to fill it a liagout a la Normande. Put on the lid, and serve the vol-au-vent on a dish covered with a napkin. The ragout may be prepared as follows :—Fillet a large sole, put it on a buttered dish, and sprinkle upon it a tea-spoonful of very finely-minced onions which have been previously parboiled. Pour upon it as much milk or light wine as will barely cover it, and bake till done enough. Di\'ide it into neat slices of uniform size, ajid put these in a stewpan with an equal quantity of oysters which have been plumped in their liquor, mussels which have been shaken over the fire in a stewpan till their shells opened, mushrooms which have been stewed in butter, and pieces of the crumb of bread about the size of a crown piece which have been fried in butter until they were lightly browned. Take as much veloute sauce as will cover the in- gredients, put it into a saucepan, and stir in the oyster liquor, the mussel broth, and the gravy from the sole. Let it simmer till very thick. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin, mix a spoonful or two of the sauce with them, and add them to the rest. Simmer the sauce for a minute or two mthout allo^wing it to boil, and pour it over the fish. Let all heat very gently together for three or four minutes, and the ragout wiU be ready for the vol-au-vent. Vol-au-vent, SmaU.—To make small vol-au-vents, prepare the pastry, and make the vol-au-vents according to the instructions already given for making a large vol-au-vent. Roll the pastry out to the thickness of half an inch. Two pastrj'-cutters will be needed—the smaller one the size of half a cro^mi, the larger one double the size. If these cutters are fluted, so much the better. Bake the vol-au-vents in a moderately-heated oven ; when done enough, lift off the CQvers, and scoop out the insides as before; dry the pastry, and fill the cavity with any of the varieties of meat which can be pre- pared for the purpose. Put on the covers, and serve the vol-au-vents, hot or cold, on a neatly- folded napkin. Time to bake small vol-au-vents, ten to twelve minutes. Vol-au-vent with Cream. —Bake a large, or six or eight small vol-au-vents; take oft' the covers, scoop out the insides, dry the cases, and let them become quite cold. Fill them with rich jam, or with fresh fruit stewed in a thick syrup, and place upon the top some nicely-flavoured whipped cream. Garnish the edges of the vol-au-vents with dots of bright- coloured fruit jell J'.