WUR ( 1151 ) YAR rub the upper pai-t with white of egg. Strew over with coarse-pounded sugar, and bake of a light-brown colour. iSufficient for thirty-six rings or wreaths. Wurtemburg Sausages.—These sau- sages are made of a uiixturc of blood, liver, brains, milk, bread, meat, siilt, and spice, which is put into skins, boiled, and smoked. When they are well made, they wiU keep good for months; but when they are deficient in salt or spice, or when they are smoked too late, or not sufficiently, they undergo a process of putrefac- tion, which begins at the centre of the sausages, and is poisonous. Yachting Soup.—Put an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four blades of mace, some pepper and salt, in a gallon of water to boil; provide two hundred crawfish, reserve about a score, pick the rest from the shells, saving the tails whole, beat the body and sheDs in a mortar with a pint of peas, either dry or green, but boiled tender, add them to the gallon of boiling water, and after stewing ten or fifteen minutes, or till aU the goodness is extracted, strain. Next set it over a slow fire, put in a stale French roll sliced veiy thin; stew tUl half wasted; put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, shake in two table-spoonfuls of flour, add an onion, and stir about to keep from burning; put in the tails of the crawfish and a pint of the soup; let it simmer for five minutes, then take out the onion, fry a French roU brown, also the score of reserved fish, and pour aU the soup together, serve up in a dish, and lay the roll in the middle, with the crawfish around. Be sure to pick out the bags and the wooUy part of the crawfish before you pound them. Yale Boat Pie (an American recipe).— Lay three or four pounds of steak from the under-cut of a round of beef in a middling- sized dish, having seasoned it with pepper and salt. Have a couple of chickens at hand, cut in pieces and seasoned; place them on the steak, and over them one dozen and a half of fresh fat oysters without the liquor. Add half a dozen fresh hard-boiled eggs, and after damping the bottom of the dish with half a pint of strong ale, cover the whole with fresh mushrooms, adding to these half a pound of glaze or plain neat's-foot jelly; lay over the dish a substantial paste, and bake in a brisk oven. This pie is excellent for a picnic or water excursion. _ Yam.—The yam is a slender herbaceous vine, having large tuberous roots, which are much used as food in Africa and the East and West Indies. They are mealy, and thought easy of digestion, are palatable, and not inferior to any roots now in use either for delicacy of flavour or nutriment. They are eaten either roasted or boiled, and the flour is also made into bread and puddings. There are niiiiiy varieties of the roots, some spreading out like the fingers, others twisted like a serpent; others again are very small, scarcely weighing more than a pound, with a whitish ash-coloured bark, whereas the bark is usually black. The flesh of the yam is white or purplish, and viscid,, but becomes farinaceous or mealy when cooked.. " A species of yam {Dioscorea Batatas)," says a. writer in Chambers's JEncyclopcedia,'' has recently been brought from the temperate parts of China,, where it appears to have been long in cultivation,, and is found to succeed well in France. It is hardy enough to endui-e the climate even of Scotland without injury, but the heat of the summer is not sufficiently great and long-con- tinued for its profitable growth, so that in general the plant merely lives, without pro- ducing a large tuber. The root is of a very fine quality, and attains a very considerable size. The stem requires the support of a pole round which it twines; the leaves are more elongated and acuminated than those of the West Indian yams; the root strines perpendicularly down into the ground, and forms its tuber often at a very considerable depth, which is sometimes inconvenient to the cultivator, but this is pre- vented by putting a slate under it." Yams, American.—Yams, when roasted or boiled, form a nutritious and palatable article of food. They are excellent prepared as follows:—Cut them into slices half an inch thick, and form them into rounds about the size of the top of a tea-cup. Wash, drain, and dry them well, put them into a weU-buttered saucepan, and season with a little salt and grated nutmeg. Moisten with water, cover closely, and let them simmer gently till done enough. Turn them over frequently, that they may be equally and lightly coloured on both sides. Pile them upon a dish. Pour white sauce, sweetened and flavoured, round them, and serve. Time to simmer the slices, about three-quarters of an hour. Yankee Cakes.—Beat a cupful of buttei to cream, stir into it an equal quantity of sugar, and add a pinch of salt, a flavouring of nutmeg or lemon grated, two well-whisked eggs, and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda which has been dissolved in a cupful of sour milk. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and stir into the mixture as much flour as wiU make a stiff batter. Butter or grease a dripping-tin thickly. Beat the cake mixture over the fire for a short time. When it is hot, pour it at once into the tm, and bake the cake in a well-heated oven, lime to bake the cake, half an hour to three- quarters. Probable cost. Is. Yankee Pudding Sauce, for Pan- cakes and Light Puddings.-Beat a table-spoonful of fresh butter to cream, and add a small tea-cupful of powdered white sugar, a dessert-spoonful of sherry or brandy, and a little grated nutmeg. Place the mixture on a dish grate a little orange or lemon-rind upon it, and serve. Yarmouth Bloaters.—Cut off the head and tail open the bloater down the back, and lay It flat. Broil it on both sides over a clear fare and serve with a Httle fresh butter and a captam s biscuit, which haabeen heated in the oven. (See Bloaters).