STB ( 930 ) STB mouthed bottles. Sprinkle amongst it four ounces of powdered sugar with each pound of fruit, and lot the bottles be filled to the neck. Pour in good sherry or madeira to cover the fruit. Cork the bottles securely, wax them down, and store in a cool dry place. Strawberries, Preserved Whole.— Take perfectly sound ripe stniwljcrrics which have been gathered in dry weather; pick and weigh them. Put them in layers on a large dish, and sprinkle finely-powdered sugar between the layers—a pound of sugar will be required for every pound of fruit. Let them stand all night. Next day put the whole gently into a clean pre- serNnng-pan. Let it boil; shake the pan to keep the strawben'ies from burning, and pass a spoon round the edges; but be careful not to crush the fruit. Remove the scum as it rises, and boil the fruit gently for a quarter of an hour. Drain the juice from the berries, and boil it separately for half an hour. If liked, a pint of red-currant juice boiled to syrup with half a pound of sugar may be added for each pound of strawberries, and this will greatly improve the flavour of the preparation. Pour the boil- ing juice upon the fruit, put both again into the pan, and boil the mixture for a quarter of an hour, or till the juice will set when a little is put upon a plate. Put the preserved fruit into jars, cover in the usual way, and store in a cool place. Strawberries preserved thus are very good served in glasses, mixed with cream. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. per pound. Strawberries, Preserved Whole {another way).—Pick and weigh the berries, iind put them in layers on a dish with finely- powdered sugar interspersed amongst them, using a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Leave them until the next day, put them gently into a preserving-pan, and when the juice is just about to boil turn all into a colander, and .drain off the juice. Let it boil, then pour it upon the fruit, and leave it until the next day. Put it again on the fire, let it reach the point of boiling once more, and again pour it out. Drain it, let it get cold, then pour it on the fruit, and repeat this process for four or five days. Put the fruit into jars, cover these, and store for use. A pint of red-currant iuice for six pounds of fruit, boiled to syrup with half a pound of sugar, and added to the juice during the last boiling, will greatly im- prove the flavour of this preparation. Time, five days. Strawberries, Wholesomeness of.— The strawberry must be ranked amongst the most wholesome productions of the vegetable kingdom. It is recorded of Fontenelle that he ascribed his longevity to them, in consequence of their having regularly cooled a fever which he had every spring; and that he used to say, »' If I can but reach the season of strawberries. Boerhaave regarded their continual use as one of the principal remedies in cases of obstruction iind viscidity, and in putrid disorders. Hoff- man furnishes instances of obstinate disorders cured by them, even consumption, and Linnfcus Bays that by eating plentifully of them he kept himself free from gout. Strawberry Acid.—Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of cold spring water, and pour this into an eailhonware pan over twelve pounds of picktid ripe strawbemes Leave them until the n(;xt day, then strain ofi the liquor without bruising the fruit. Put a pound and a half of powdered and sifted loaf sugar with each pint of clear liquor, stir it ' until dissolved, and bottle for use. Itaspberry I acid may be made in the same way. Time, I two days. Strawberries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. I Strawberry, Alpine. — Unlike other kinds of strawberries, th(; Alpine strawberry j has a tall stem and erect manner of growth. I The fruit, which is either red or white, is not I very large, but is produced in great abundance, I and is to be had long after other kinds are out of season. Strawberry and Custard Pudding. —Take four ounces of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Place four table-siioonfuls of straw- berry jam in a buttered pie-dish, cover this j with the bread-crumbs, and add some good nicely-flavoured custard made with a pint of I milk, two eggs, and a little sugar. Stir the custard over the fire till it begins to thicken, : pour it gradually upon the bread-crumbs, and bake the pudding in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Strawberry Blancmange. — Take a quart of clear stiff blancmange made with isinglass or gelatine. Sweeten this, and stir into it the juice which has been drawn from a quart of fresh strawberries. Mix the ingre- dients thoroughly, put the blancmange into a damp mould, and leave it in a cool place till set. Turn it upon a glass dish, and serve. To draw the juice from the strawberries, pick them, spread them on a large flat dish, and sprinkle over them about six table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Let them stand for six or eight hours, and pour away for use the syrup which has flowed from them. Strawberry Cardinal.—Hull a quart of ripe, finely-flavoured strawberries, and discard all berries that are unsound or bruised. Sprinkle upon them a poxmd of powdered and sifted sugar, and pour over them half a bottle of Rhine wine. Cover closely, and let them stand in a cool place for half an hour. Just before they are to be served, pour over them the remainder of the wine, with another bottle, either of moselle or of the same wine. Add a bottle of seltzer, and serve. If liked, the liquor may be strained and bottled for use. Strawberry Cheesecakes. — Take a ' quarter of a pint of ripe, finely-flavoured straw- I berries, measured after the stalks have been picked from them. Bruise them thoroughly I with a wooden spoon in a basin, and mix ^^^th ' them a heaped table-spoonful of powdered sugar I and two well-beaten eggs. Line some patty- i pans with good pastry, three-parts fiU them with the mixture, and bake in a well-hcated oven. If fresh fruit cannot be had, strawberry jelly may be used instead, and then no sugar will be required. Time to bake, ten minutes.