VEA VEA ( 1041 ) bones. Fry the cutlets in butter or lard till they are lightly browned on both sides. Take tliem up, drain them, and put them aside. Put 11 small bunch of sweet herbs into a stewpan with a little minced shallot, a roll of thin Icmon- rlnd, and a slice of fat bacon cut into dice. Pour upon these ingredients a pint of strong veal stock, or veal stock with a little gelatine dissolved in it. Add salt and popper as required, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently tiU the veal is tender. Take up the cutlets, and set them aside to cool; strain the hquor, and set that aside also. It ought to foi-m a stiff jelly when cold. When the cutlets are wanted, take as many sheets of stiff white paper as there are cutlets. Cut away the comers to give them something of the shape of a heart, but leave them sufficiently large to enfold the cutlets. Oil the paper on both sides. Place a cutlet on each paper, spread a httle of the sauce upon it, then fold it in the paper, and twist the edges secvirely, so that the sauce cannot escape. Broil the cutlets thus enclosed in paper over a gentle fire, or, if pre- fei-red, place them in a brisk oven till they are heated thoroughly, and the envelopes are lightly browned. Dish them in the papers with fried parsley as a garnish. Time to fry the cutlets, about a quarter of an hour. To broil them, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, from Is. to Is. 2d. Veal Cutlets la Venitienne).—Cut the best end of a neck of veal into cutlets, trim these in the usual way, and flatten them with the cutlet-bat. Mince finely half a pint of mush- rooms, and mix with them two shallots, a handf id of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a little pepper. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, add a quarter of a poimd of fat bacon cut into dice, and the minced herbs, &c. Stew all gently together till the mushrooms are tender; put in the cutlets with as much white stock as will barely cover them, and let all sim- mer very gently till they are done enough. Add a spoonful of white thickening, and carefully remove the fat as it rises. A few minutes before the veal is to be served add the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cream to the sauce. Mix in a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a pinch of cayenne. Place the cutlets on a dish, pour the sauce into the centre, and serve very hot. Send sorrel or tomatoes, or anj"- dressed vegetables, to table as an accompaniment. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to stew the cutlets. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Veal Cutlets (a la Zingara).—Take a tolerably thick slice from the fillet of veal. Cut it into round pieces convenient for serving, trim these neatly, and fry them in a stewpan with hot butter or lard till they are lightly browned. Pour off the fat, and pour upon the cutlets as much brown sauce as will cover them. Put into the saucepan with them two ounces of grated ham, an onion stuck with one clove, a large can-ot grated, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer all gently together over a slow fire till the cutlets are tender. Take them up, and keep them hot. Have already prepared as niany slices of lean nam or of cold tongue as there are cutlets; they should be trinmied to the same Shape and size. Frj' these in butter for five minutes. Dish the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish with a slice of ham or tongue between each. Strain the sauce, and serve it in the centre of the dish. Time to stew the cutlets, about one hour and a half. Probable cost, veal, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (a I'ltalienne).—Cut a slice of lean veal from the fillet into neat pieces, and beat these with a cutlet-bat. Mince finely a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay- leaf. Fry the herbs in butter, and be careful that they do not acqmre any coloiir. Brush the cutlets with beaten egg, lay the fried herbs upon them, and sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs upon these. Let them remain untouched for an hour; then repeat the process. Fry the cutlets in butter over a gentle fire till they are suf- ficiently cooked and brightly browned. Send to table with them a sauce prepared as follows: —Mince a handful of parsley, a sprig of thjine, a bay-leaf, and one shallot. Fry these ingre- dients in a little salad oil over a gentle fire, and stir briskly to keep them from acquiring any colour. Pour upon them half a pint of brown sauce, and add a wine-glassful of mush- room ketchup, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a few fresh mushrooms finely minced, if they are to be had. Let the sauce boil; simmer by the side of the fire till it has thrown up the grease, skim it, and it will bo ready for use. A glassful of sherry or madeira will much improve this sauce. The sauce should of course be prepared before the cutlets are fried. Time to fi'y the cutlets, twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets and Celery.—Divide the best end of a neck of veal into neat cutlets. Trim these in the usual way, and beat them with a cutlet-bat. "Wash four heads of celery, and cut them into neat pieces. Put them into a saucepan, cover with boiling water slightljr salted, add a blade of mace, let them boil quickly for ten minutes, then dxain them. Lay the celery at the bottom of a saucepan, add the cutlets and a little salt and pepper, and pour over them as much veal stock made from the bones and trimmings of the cutlets as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently till tender. Take up the cutlets, and mix with the celery, now reduced to pulp, a quarter of a pint of miik or cream and a thickening of flour and butter. Stir the sauce over the fire for ten minutes, pour it over the cutlets, and serve immediately. A little stewed onion may be put with the celery if liked, but this is a matter of taste. Garnish the dish with veal, forcemeat balls, and sliced lemon. Time to stew the cutlets, about three- quarters of an hour. Veal Cutlets and Tomatoes.—Cut a shce of veal from the fillet half an inch thick, and weighing about a pound. Cut it into six pieces, and dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour upon them. Dissolve three ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the cutlets, and let thim remain until they are brightly browned on both sides. Put with them a small slice of lean ham cut into dice, one small onion, four large ripe tomatoes, two anchovies cleaned Jind