PIK ( 671 ) Pikelets.—AVhisk two eggs thoroughly, and mix with them a pinch of salt, a little gi-ated nutmeg, a pint of lukewarm milk, two poimds of Hour, and a table-spoonful of good fresh yeast. Beat the mixture for ten or twelve minutes, put it into a bowl, cover with a cloth, and let it remain near the fire for two hours, by wliich time it ought to have risen lightly. ' Make it into round cakes, half an inch tliick "and the size of a saucer. Bake these on a girdle, and when they are done enough on one side, turn them upon the other. Butter the pikelets whilst hot, and send three or four to table together. If any are left till the next day, they should bo toasted and buttered like crumpets. Time to bake, three or four minutes. Probable cost, id. each. Sufiicient, one or two for each person. Pikelets (another way).—Rub an ounce of fresh butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, and a well-beaten egg. Put the flour into a bowl, and make a hole in the middle of it. Pour into this a quarter of an ounce of German yeast dissolved in two table- spoonfuls of tepid water. Stir the whole together, and add as much lukewarm milk as will make the whole like thick batter. Beat for ten or twelve minutes, and let it stand near the fire for an hour. Put the bakestone over a moderate fire. Melt a little butter or lard upon this, and pour over it a tea-cupful of the batter. "When one side is done, turn it lightly upon the other. Butter the pikelets whilst hot, and serve them three or four on a plate. The bake- stone will require to be freshly greased with each pikelet. Time to bake, about two minutes each side. Sufficient, one or two for each person. Probable cost, ^d. each. Pilau.—This is an Oriental dish, much liked by those who have become accustomed to it wMlst travelling or residing in the East. We are told by travellers, that in Tui'key and Arabia it is a very simple preparation, consist- ing generally of poultry or meat too much dressed served with rice under-dressed, and reasoned; vnth. pepper and salt. English families who have resided abroad require a little more than this, however, and for them the succeeding recipes are given. The following additional recipes wUl be found under their respective headings:— Indian, Plain Rahbit Indian, Real Turkish Oyster Pilau. Arabian.—Take three or four pounds of a nock or loin of mutton. Trim off: the fat, and .stew the meat gently in four pints of nicely-seasoned stock until it is done enough. Take it up, and put it aside, then throw into the boiling stoclc a pound of Patna rice, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Stir in four winces of fresh butter, and simmer again until tho rice is tender without being broken. Cut the meat into convcnient-siK^d pieces, fry these lightly in butter, and servo ihem in the dish with the rice. If liked, the pilau may bo gar- nished with hard-boiled eggs out into quarters longthwise, or with forcemeat balls, or rings of onion, fried until very dry. Time to boil th». mutton, an hour and a half. Probable ooflt, 4s. 6d. Sufticiont for five or six persons. Pilau, Arabian (another way). See Arabian Pilau. Pilau, Indian.—Take three pounds of the neck or loin of mutton or lamb, and divide them into cutlets; or, if preferred, take a chicken, and cut it into neat joints. Chop three large onions, and fry. them in two- ounces of butter, with an Indian mango, cut uj> small. If the mango cannot be had, four ounces of Sultana raisins and a quarter of, a clove of gaiiic may be substituted; and in this case, two table-spoonfuls of curry powder may be mixed with the butter. Stir the ingredients over the fire for ten minutes, sprinkle a little salt over, and simmer all gently together- for three-quar- ters of an hour. Whilst the meat is simmering, boil the rice according to the directions given for Rice for a Pilau {see PUau, Rice for a). Pile it on a dish, lay the pieces of meat upon it, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Instead of preparing the rice as previously mentioned, it may be dressed as follows:—Wash three- quarters of a pound of rice, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour in a pint of stock. Pour off the gravy, add three ounces of fi-esh butter to the rice, and stir over a quick fire until it is brightly and equally coloured. Moisten with a little stock, season with a pinch of mixed sweet herbs, a pinch of gi-a,ted nutmeg, and the thin rind of half a lemon. Simmer again until the rice is quite tender without being broken. Lift out the lemon- rind, and add a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Spread half the rice on a hot dish, lay the pieces of meat upon it, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and cover with the remainder of the rice. Time, three-quarters of an hour to stew the meat and siriimCr the rice. Probable cost, 3s. 4d., if made with mutton and -wathout cream. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pilau, Indian (another way).—Boil a chicken and two pounds of bacon in the usual way. Take them up ; to keep in the heat as . much as possible, lay them on a hot dish, and cover with a cloth doubled in five or six thicknesses. Boil up again two pints , of the chicken broth, and put with it two sniall.onions, six cloves, six peppercorns^ and three allspice, and half a pound of rice. Simmer gently for three-quarters, of an hour, or until the rice is tender, but unbroken. Lift out the onions and the bag containing the spices, put in the fowl to make it quite hot, place it on a dish, and pile the rice smoothly over it. Send the bacon I to table on a separate dish. The bacon should ; be boiled in the same liquid as the fowl, in ' order to season it. Time to boil thfe chicken, ', according to size. Sufficient for three or four persons. Probable cost, 4s. 6d., with a chicken, at 2s. Gd. \ Pilau of Fowl.—Truss a' plump, young i chicken as if for boiling. Put it into a stew- Ipan, with five pints of stock seasoned ratlicr I highly -with popper, salt, and jiowdered mace, land boU gently until it is three-parts done. Whilst the fowl is boiling, wash a pound of test