SPB ( 928 ) Spruce Beer.—Dissolve sixteen pounds of troiiclo in eight gallons of water. Strain the Uquor into a cask, and add eight gallons of cold water and six table-spoonfuls of the essence of spruce. AVhen the liquor is new-milk-wai-m, stir briskly into it half a pint of good fresh yeast. Leave it in a wai-m place for a day or two until fei-mentation ceases, then bung it up closely. The following day it may be bottled, and can be used in a week. Sometimes the beer is flavoured by boiling for this quantity a tea-cupful of bruised ginger, a tea-spoonful of allspice, and thi-ee ounces of hops in a small quantity of the liquor, and adding this to the rest. When the outer sprigs of the spruce fir can be obtained, they may be boiled for a few minutes in a little of the liquor, and this decoction may be used instead of the essence. A pound of the sprigs will be equivalent to a pound and a half of the essence. Spruce Beer (another way).—This_ is made by adding the essence of spruce (which see) to water in which sugar or treacle has been dissolved in the proportion of about four ounces of essence of spruce to ten pounds of sugar, or three quarts of treacle, and ten or eleven gallons of water, and with about half a pint of yeast. For flavouring, various spices are added. " A similar beverage," says a writer in " Chambers' Encyclopaedia," " is made largely in the north of Europe from the buds of the Norway spruce, and is known as Black Beer, that of Danzig being the most famous. The antiscorbutic beer of the Russian army pharmacopoeia is made by mixing spruce tops and fresh, horseradish- root with common beer; ginger and Calamus aromaticm being added for flavouring, and, after fermentation, a little cream of tartar, tincture of mustard, and proof spirit. Spruce Beer Powders. — Take two tumblers, and pour into each as much cold water as wUl fiU them about a third. Stir into one glass eight grains of the essence of spruce, one grain of essence of lemon, one scruple of bicarbonate of soda, and one drachm of loaf sugar. In the other glass dissolve half a drachm of tartaric acid. Pour the contents of the one glass into the other, and drink the liquor during eiforvescence. If these powders are prepared beforehand, the mixture should be packed in papers of one colour and the tartaric acid in papers of a different one. Spruce, Essence of.—Essence of spruce is obtained by boiling the green tops of the black spruce in water, and then concentrating the decoction by another boiling without the spruce tops. The young shoots of this fir, like most others pf its family, are coated with a resinous exudation, which, is dissolved in the water. Squab Pie.—This is a favourite popular dish m the west of England. It is generally made of mutton, though in the midland coun- ties beef and fat bacon arc sometimes used. Take a deep dish, and fill it with layers of mutton chops, apples cut as for other pies, and finely-shred onions. Season the layers with pepper and salt, and sweeten the apples with Bugar. Cover the pie with a thick crust, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Time to bake, two to three hours, according to size. Squab Pie (another way).—*S'<?e Devon- shii-e Squab Pie. Squeak, Bubble and {see Bubble and Squeak). Staffordshire Syllabub.—Put a pint of cider into a bowl with a glassful of brandy, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, and half a grated nut- meg. Fill the bowl with frothed new nulk, or with milk heated tiU it is ncw-nulk-warm. Pour this into the syllabub from a teapot held high above it. Stale Bread.—Stale bread will taste com- paratively fresh and new if it be put into a cool oven till it is heated gently through. It will take about an hour. Stale Cake.—If a sweet sake becomes stale, it may be freshened by the following pro- cess :—Put it into a box with a closely-litting lid, place this before the fire, but not so near as to scorch the wood of the box, and turn it round occasionally. If the cake is large, cut it into thin slices before heating it. It wiU be ready for use ia about an hour. Star-Gazy Pie (a favourite Cornish dish).—This pic is thus named because the heads of the fish arc usually placed mouth uppermost in the centre of the lid of the crust, as pigeon's legs are in a pigeon pie, and there- fore the fish are supposed to be gazing at the sky or the stars. Take as many fresh herrings or mackerel as will till a moderate-sized dish. Scale, empty, and open them, and remove the bones. Lay them flat on the table, season the inside of each with salt, cayenne, and chopped parsley, and roll it up neatly. Butter the pie- dish, and spiinkle upon it a thick layer of finely-grated bread-crumbs, lay in some of the fish, and fill the dish with alternate layers of fish and bread-crumbs. Cover the contents of the pie with a few slices of fat bacon or the fat of a ready-dressed ham, and pour over aU six eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, or, if preferred, half a quaiter of a pint of cream. Cover the dish with a good crust, and bake the pie in a well-heated oven. Arrange the heads of the fish in the centre of the pastry; when the pie is baked put a piece of parsley into the mouth of each fish, and serve. Time, one hour to an hour and half. Steaming.—This is a process of cookery which is particularly adapted to very deli- cate preparations. It is sometimes carried on upon a large scale, and then an apparatus for the special purpose is provided. In ordinary kitchens, and for overy-day dishes, a kitchen steamer wiU be aU that is required. The article of food which is to be steamed should be prepared as for boiling. It should then be placed in a steamer, which has a closely-fitting lid, over a saucepan friU of boiling water, and this water should be kept boiling, and should bo replenished as it boils away. "When any delicate preparation is to be steamed, the cook should on no account boil anything strong and highly flavoured in the vessel under it. For