( 981 ) TOM TOM for a quart of tomatoes. Put the jai' in a warm place, and stir the fruit every now and then for three days. At the end of tliat time press the tomatoes through a sieve. Measure the juice, and boil it with a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, eiglit cloves, a blade of mace, a tea- spoonful of powdered ginger, and lialf an ounce of allspice to each quart of juice. Pour it while warm into wai-m bottles, and when it is quite cold cork up securely. At the end of three months boil it again, adding fresh spice ac- cording to taste. Cork it uj) again, and store for use. Time to boU the juice with the spice, a quarter of an hour. Tomato Ketchup (another way).—Boil one bushel of good tomatoes until soft, then squeeze through a fine -wire sieve. Add half a gallon of Adnegar, a few ounces of salt, two ounces of cloves, a quarter of a pound of all- spice, an ounce and a half of cayenne pepper, three table-spoonfuls of black pepper, and five heads of garlic skinned and separated. Mix and boil three hours or until reduced one-half, and bottle without straining. The garlic may bo omitted. Tomato Marmalade.—Weigh the fruit, and take as many ounces of sugar as there are pounds of tomatoes. Put this sugar into a preserving-pan, place it upon a gentle fire, and stir until it melts and acquires a light- brown colour. Throw into it three or four onions finely minced, allowing one small onion for each pound of tomatoes. When these are slightly browned, put into the pan the tomatoes cut into quarters, and add a slight seasoning of pepper, salt, powdered mace, and grated nut- meg. Boil all together till the tomatoes are reduced to pulp, strain the juice through a sieve, and boil it quickly until it will jelly when a small portion is poured upon a plate. Put the marmalade into jars, and cover with double layers of very thick paper. Time, two and a half to three hours. Tomato Omelet.—Take four ripe toma- toes, peel them, and chop them small. Beat a large table-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a little milk. Add six well-beaten eggs, a little pepper and salt, and the tomatoes. Fry the omelet in the usual way, and fold it over if liked, but do not turn it. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, about lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tomato Puree (for roast beef, mutton, pork, (fee).—Take a dozen ripe tomatoes, slice off the stalks and the part that adheres to them, squeeze out the pips, break them into pieces, and put them into a stcwpan with three or four spoonfuls of good brown gra-vy and a little salt and cayenne. Let them boil; put with thorn an onion, a bunch of jmrslcy, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, and simmer them very gently until they are quite soft. Take out the herbs, and rub the tomatoes through a fine hair sieve. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan, and mix a tea-.spoonful of flour smoothly with it. Add a spoonful or two of gravy and the tomato jiulp, and stir the puree over the fire for five or six minutes. Servo very hot. Time to stew the tomatoes, about an'hour. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomato Purde (for veal cutlets, calfs head, &c.).—Simmer the tomatoes in good gi-avy till soft, as in the last recipe. Take out the herbs, and rub them through a sieve. Mix an ounce of clarified butter with a tea-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste ; add gradually two or three spoonfuls of thick cream and the tomato pulp. Stir the puree over the fire for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Time to stew the tomatoes, about an hour. Probable cost, toma- toes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomato Sauce for present use (to serve with cutlets, roast meats, &c.).—Take a dozen ripe tomatoes, cut them in halves, and press the seeds and the watery part from them. Put them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pint of gravy or strong broth and a quarter of a salt- spoonful of cayenne. Let them stew softly until they are melted. Press them through a fine sieve, and put the pulp back into the stewpan with half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it simmer gently for a few minutes, and ser^^e very hot. If hked, a blade of mace, two or three shallots, and two cloves may be stewed with the tomatoes, but most lovers of tomatoes prefer that they should retain, their distinctive character, and consider that tomato sauce is spoilt if it is fla- voured with other ingredients. Tomatoes varj" so much in size and juiciness that it is difficult to give the exact quantity of liquor required for them. It should be remembered, however, that the sauce should be of the consistency of thick cream, and that if it is too thick a little more gravy should be added: if too thin, it should be boiled down very quickly for a short time. Time to simmer the tomatoes, about an hour. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sufficient I for six or eight persons. Tomato Sauce (another way).—Melt in a stewpan a dozen or two ripe tomatoes (which, before putting into the stewpan, cut in two, and squeeze the juice and the seeds out). Then put two shallots, one onion, with a few bits of ham, a clove, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a few leaves of mace, and when melted rub them through a tamis. Mix a few spoonfuls of good Espagnole and a little salt and pepper with this puree. Boil it for twenty minutes, and serve. Tomato 'Sauce (another way).—When gravy or stock is not at hand, tomatoes may be sliced and stewed with a little butter, cayenne, and salt. If dressed in this way, they should be pulped through a sieve just as if they had been simmered in gravy, and a little vinegar may be added to them if liked. Tornato Sauce (another way).—Halve a dozen ripe tomatoes, squeeze out the seeds, and put them into a jar or saucepan with a dessert- spoonful of lean ham cut into dice, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a large pinch of cayenne, a quiirter of a pint of good gravy, or two or three ounces of butter, and either three sliced shallots or a dozen button mushrooms cleaned and cut into small pieces. Stir them over a gentle fire until they are quite soft, then press