BEF ( 725 ) pressed down. This rising ice mixture enters the reservoir of dry salt, and as long as ice is mt'lting salt will bo dissolved and the cooling action will thus be kept up uninterrupted. No turning is required; the freezing compound, however, should be stirred occasionally, as the poi-tion in immediate contact with the freezing mixture will congeal first. The temperature attained is about 6"—7" below zero, Fahr. Refrigerator, Pood.—The ordinarj' food refrigerator is usually in the form of a chest which has a compartment for ice and one or more compartments for the food. Most of the older forms of refrigerators did not completely separate the ice fi-om the food compartments, and many of them were merely chests with double sides, separated by some non-conducting substance, as chai'coal, in which the ice as well as the articles to be kept cool were placed on shelves indiscriminately. In either case the moisture from the evaporating ice filled the whole apparatus, and caused the contents to begin decaying soon after their removal, and, indeed, prevented their being preserved -long while they were within it. In the presence of moistui'e, particularly when it contains the effluvia from various meats and articles of food, decomposition will go on even at a temperature considerably below the freezing point, and this cannot be secured by the presence of ice. In a dry atmosphere meats may even be preserved without ice. If a current of air is made to circu- late in a chamber surroimding an ice-box, much of the moisture of the air will be condensed upon the box, and there will also be a constant col- lection of impurities contained in the air. To make such a refrigerator efficient, the air must be first dried by passing it through a vessel containing chloride of calcium or some sub- stance which will rapidly absorb moisture. In either case the caloric absorbed by the ice to cool a continuous current causes it to melt rapidly. An efficient method is to place a tight ice-box within a tight meat-box, or surround the latter with an ice-chamber, the meats to be first cooled in the open air. Regent's Pudding.—Grate two ounces of the white meat of a cocoa-nut. Mix with this two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of flour, three ounces of finely-skred beef suet, a table-spoonful of picked and washed currants, a table-spoonful of chopped raisins, and a little sugar. Mix these ingredients tho- roughly, and beat them up with two eggs and half a quarter of a pint of milk. Pour the niixture into a buttered basin, put over it a picfe of buttered writing-paper, and tie it in a cloth. Plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and before sending to table, pour over it a little custard-sauce pleasantly flavoured with vanilla. Time to boil, about three hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. , Regent's Punch.—Take the very thin nnds of two lemouH, two china oranges, and one bitter one. Pour over them half a pound of white sugar-candy which has been boiled to a thin syruj) with water and allo-.vcd to cool Let I the rinds infuse for an hour. Pour over them a pint of cold strong green tea, and add the strained juice of the fruit, a glass of rum, a glass of brandy, a glass of arrack, a glass of pine-apple syrup, two bottles of chatapag-no, and one of seltzer water. Strain the punch through lawn till it is quite clear, bottle immediately, and put it into ice for an hour or two till wanted. Serve in a bowl or jug. If preferred, instead of using pine-apple syrup, a fresh pine-apple may be sliced into the punch. Regent's Sauce for Sweet Puddings. ■—Beat up the yolk of an egg with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Add a table-spoon- ful of rum, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and a slight flavouring of essence of vanilla. When thoroughly mixed, serve. Probable cost, if made with milk, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Regent's Soup.—Take the bones, trim- mings, and remains of cold game. Break them into small pieces, put them into a atewpan, and pour over them two quarts of stocl?: made from meat-bones. Add a large carrot, a large onion, a small turnip, and thi-ee or four heads of celery, all cut up small. Let the soup boil, skim carefully, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for 'two hom-s. Strain, and remove the fat. Wash four ounces of pearl barley, and boil it in a separate saucej.an until it is done enough. Drain, and put aside one- half. Pound the other half with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard, rub the mixture tlu-ough a fine sieve, moisten with a qupjter of a pint of cream, and add it gradually to the soup. Stir the whole over the fire until it is very hot without boiling, add the barley that was put aside, and serve immediately. Time, three hours. Probable cost, exclusive of the price of the game, 6d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Regent's Store Sauce.—Infuse six shallots, four clovfi, and an ounce of cayenne in a bottle with a < uart of vinegar for ten days, and shake the bottle every day. Strain the liquor, and mix thoroughly with it a quarter of a pint of soy, a quarter of a pint of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy. Put the sauce into small bottles, cork securely, and store for use. Regimen.—" Diet," says Dr. Reece, " con- sists in that coui-se of eating and drinking which every man employs for the support of life; and varies therefore with cverv in- dividual, in a certain degi-ee accord'.ng to temperament, age, predisposition, &c. In a medical view, it is proper to consider the course of diet which is best suited to each period, without regard to anything ext aneous, and in so doing I shall begin with that of youth. " The diet of children and young people should consist greatly of dilutents, in order to facili- tate the progress of youth. Hence broths and a large proportion of vegetables are the most suitable nourishment. Milk also is a proper part of diet, and it should be used in every form during this stage of life. In point of drink, water is the best, and should be almost the onlv