POB ( 602 7 POR a noatly-foldod napkin. Vinegar and mustard should bo served with pork brawn. Time to boil the head, two hours, less or more, according to size ; till tho llosh leaves the bone. Probable cost of head, 5d. to 6^d. per pound. Sufficient for a good-sized breakfast or luncheon dish. Pork, Breast of, with Rice—Wash one pound of best rice, and boil it in a quart of water for five minutes. Drain it, and put it aside. Cut a pound of the breast of pork, fat and lean together, into dice. Fry these in two oimees of butter till they are lightly browned, then add tho rice, three pints of stock or water, and a little pepper and salt if required. Sim- mer all gently for half an hour, and stir the mixture occasionally to keep the rice from burning to the bottom of the saucepan. Serve all together on a hot dishwith a pound of fried sausages laid round it. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of the sausages. Pork Cheese.—Take four pounds of rather imder-dressed cold roast pork, one poimd of which should be fat, and the rest lean. Cut it into small neat pieces, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Chop small six or eight large sage-leaves, and miY with them two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, half a tea- spoonful of powdered marjoram, two blades of powdered mace, a tea-spoonful of minced lemon- rind, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Put the meat into a mould, sprinkle the savoury powder in with it, and just cover it with strong, nicely-flavoured gravy. Bake in a moderate oven. Let the meat stand till cold, and turn it out before serving. Vinegar and mustard should be eaten with pork cheese. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost of pork, 9d. to lid. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate- sized breakfast dish. Pork Cheese (a I'ltalienne).—Take three pounds of fresh pork, one pound and three- quarters fat and one pound and a quarter lean. Chop it rather coarsely, and mix with it a savoury powder made of three tea-spoonfuls of salt, three salt-spoonfuls of pepper, a tea-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of chopped sage, a salt-spoonful of powdered thyme, a tea- spoonful of mushroom-powder, and a grated nutmeg. Press the meat into a shallow baking- tin, and bake in a slow oven. Let the cheese get cold, and when serving cut it in slices like brawn. Send vinegar and mustard to table with it. Pork Cheese (a I'ltalienne. Another way).—See Italian Pork Cheese. Pork, Chine of.—The chine of pork is that part of the pig which is taken from the spine between the shoulders. It is generally sent to table with turkey, and should be salted for three or four days before it is cooked. There is a good deal more of fat than lean in it. To boil it, put it in plenty of water, let it boil slowly, skim thoroughly, and serve garnished with any kind of greens. It is as often roasted as boiled. "When roasted, tho skin should be scored before it is put down to the fire. Make ^ sauce by frying two or three sliced onions in butter till they are lightly browned. Pour off the oil, and add a cupful of good gravy with a toa-Hpoonful of mixed mustard, half a cupful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, and a large limip of sugar. Boil this, and pour it into the (tsh. Time to boil, half an hour to tho pound after it boils; to roast, twenty minutes to the jjound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient, four or five pounds for a moderate-sized tui-key. Pork, Chine of (another way).—Make a savoury powder with a dessert-spoonful of finely - chopped sage, hiilf a tea-spoonful of thyme, half a tea-spoonful of parsley, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Score the chine lengthwise, and slip the powder under the skin. Roast according to the directions given above. If liked, the powder can be omitted, and a sauce, made as follows, sent to table with the chine:—Slice two large onions, and fry them in a little good dripping until they are lightly browned without being burnt. Drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a pint of brown sauce, two table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, or a tea-spoonful of mushroom-powder, or a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and one tea-spoon- ful of mixed mustard Let the sauce boil, and serve. Time to roast, twenty minutes per pound. Probable cost, 94d. to lOid. per pound. Pork, Chine of. Boiled.—Lay the chine in common brine, and turn it every day for ten days. Wash it from the pickle, drain it, put it into a saucepan, and cover with cold water. Bring it to the boil, skim the liquid carefully, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the pork simmer very gently imtil done enough. Gramish the dish with small boiled cauliflowers or brussels sprouts. Time to boil, half an hour to the poimd from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 9Jd. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Chine of. Roasted.—Score the chine length\vise, brush the skin over with salad oil, and put the meat down to a clear fire, a considerable distance from it at first, that it may heat gently through before it browns. Baste liberally. Send good brown gravy, apple sauce, tomato sauce, or piquant sauce, to table with it. If liked, a table-spoonful of powdered sage may be sprinkled over the meat a quarter of an hour before it is taken from the fire. When this is done, care should be taken that the gravy is poxu-ed round, and not upon, the meat. Time to roast, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, Q^d. to lOid. per pound. Pork, Chine of, Roasted (another way). —Remove some of the fat, then roast the meat for two hours or longer—say, until it is thoroughly done. Send it to table by itself, or with piquant sauce. Before cooking this joint it should be sprinkled with salt and spices, and hung up for three days, or longer, according to the season. Pork, Choosing of.—Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. Should the rind bo tough, thick, and not easily impressed by tho fingers, the meat is old. A thin rind is a dc- sirabjo feature ifl aU pork. When fresh, the