( 943 ) SUM SUM beaten ir.to a strong froth; mix them all well together while cold, and put the preparation into a copper. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then pour it into a cooler, and put to it two ounces of cream of tartar and the inside of six lemons sliced and the pips taken out. When it is nearly cold, put into a cloth four table- spoonfuls of yeast, and pour the liquor in upon it. When done working, bung it up, and let it stand a fortnight; then bottle it oft', and it will be fit for drinking in about ten days. Ginger Beer (other ways).—Take a poimd and a half of common brown sugar or treacle, a gallon and a half of water, an ounce of ground ginger, and a lemon if liked. Boil, and then add yeast. 2. Dissolve four ounces of candied ginger in two gallons and a quarter of boiling water, add two pounds of sugar, one ounce of powdered citric acid, when nearly cold, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast. Lemonade.—This favourite beverage is easily made and extremely refreshing. To make a quart, take two lemons or more, according to taste, pare thinly off a little of the rind, or rub lumps of sugar upon it. Squeeze out the juice of the fruit, and mix it with two ounces of white sugar, including what has been rubbed upon the lemons. Add boiling hot water, and when cool enough strain the liquor. Dilute the preparation with water to the strength required. Should lemons not be in season, syrup of lemons may be used, or crystallised citric acid and sugar, adding a few drops of the essence of lemon. Lemonade, like all similar drinks, is rendered much more refreshing by being iced. Lemonade (au lait).—Take half a pint of lemon- juice, the same of white wine, three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, and a quart of boiling N. ater. jMix, and when cold add a pint of boil- ing milk. Let it stand twelve hours, then pour through a jelly-bag. This makes two quarts ; about seven lemons will produce half a pint of juice. Lemonade (Soyer's recipe).—Thinly peel the third part of a lemon, which put into a basin with two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Roll the lemon with your hand upon the table to soften it; cut it in two lengthwise, squeeze the juice over the peel, &c., stir round for a minute with a spoon to form a sort of syrup, pour over a pint of water, mix well, and remove the pips; it will then be ready for use. If a very large lemon and full of juice and very fresh, you may make a pint and a half to a quart, adding sugar and peel in proportion to the increase of water. The juice only of the lemon and sugar will make lemonade, but it will then be deprived of the aroma which the rind contains, the said rind being generally thrown away. Mint Jukp,—Put about a dozen of the young sprigs of mint into a tumbler. Add a table- spoonful of white sugar, half a wine-glassful of peach, and the same of common brandy, then fill up the tumbler with pounded ice. Nectar.—This is a very simple and pleasant drink, and generally liked. Dissolve two pounds of loaf sugar in three quarts of hot water. When cool, add quite half an ounce of tartaric or, preferably, citric acid, and a tea- :ipoonful of fresh essence of lemon. Colour according to fancy with burnt sugar, strain, and bottle. This preparation will keep two or three weeks, and is the better for being made a few days before it is wanted. Orangeade.—Squeeze out the juice of an orange, pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover it close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. AVhen all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup with as much more water as will make a rich drink. Strain through a jelly-bag, and ice. Orgeat.—Blanch and pound three-quarters of a pound of sweet-almonds and thirty bitter ones with a table-spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water and three pints of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water, boil, skim well, and mix with the almond water, adding two table-spoonfuls of orange- flower water and a tea-cupful of good brandy. Quince Syrup.—Grate quinces, pass the pulp through a sieve, then set it before the fire for the juice to settle and clarify; strain, and add a pound of sugar (boiled down) to every four ounces of juice; remove from the fire, and when cold bottle for use. A table-spoonful of this syrup will flavour a pint of water. Raspberry Vinegar.—This is made by squeez- ing the juice of three quarts of raspberries into a quart of vinegar, and then simmering the vinegai" for about a quarter of an hour with two pounds of sugar in an earthen pipkin not glazed with lead. When cold it is to be corked; and a small spoonful of this in a glassful of I water makes a very cooling and refreshing drink. (For other ways see Raspberry Vinegar.) Sherry Cobbler. —Take some very fine and clean ice, break it into small pieces, fill a tumbler to within an inch of the top with it, put a table-spoonful of plain syrup, capillaire, or anj' other flavour—some prefer strawberry—add the quarter of the zest of a lemon and a few drops of the juice. Fill with sherry, stir it up, and let it stand for five or six minutes. Sip gently through a straw. Sodaic Fouders.—Take five drachms of citric or tartaric acid, pound it fine, and divide it into twelve parts, folding each in white paper. Take six drachms of carbonate of soda, pound it fine, and fold it in blue paper. Half fill two half- pint tumblers with water; stir into one a powder from the white paper, in the other one from the blue; when the powders are quite dis- solved pour one to the other, and perfect soda water will be instantaneously produced in its utmost perfection. Supreme Nectar.—Put into a nine-gallon cask six pounds of moist sugar, five ounces of bruised ginger, four oimces of cream of tartar, four lemons, eight ounces of yeast, and seven gallons of boiling water. Work two or three days, strain, add brandy one pint, bung very close, and in fourteen days bottle and wire down. Tamarind Drink.—Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, till about a third has evaporated. Strain, add a bit of lemon-peel, which is to bo removed in half an hour, then cool. Vinegar and Water.—'' It is commonly known that cold water is dangerous when used by