VEA ( 1047 ) VEA liquor. A short time before it is to be served take it up and put it into a well-heated oven to crisp the bacon. Strain the gi'avy, skim the fat from it, boil quickly to glaze, and baste the fricandeau witli it till it looks bright and glossy. Serve with the larded surface upper- most, in the centre of a pui-ee of any vegetables that are in season—sorrel, spinach, endive, as- paragus, peas, &c. If Kked, the gravy may be simply strained, skimmed, and poured over the meat, and then the dish is fricandeau with gravy. Sometimes as a matter of economy the lean part of the best end of a large neck of veal is used instead of the prime part of the leg, and does nearly as well. Truffles, mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms may all be served with this dish. Time to stew the fricandeau, about two hours and a half. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Pricandelles of.—Take a pound of lean veal from the fillet, and mince it finely with half its weight in suet freed from skin and fibre. Soak four rusks in milk, then press the moisture thoroughly from them, and mix them with the minced meat. Season and flavour the preparation with pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, and finely-minced lemon-rind. A little onion or shallot may be added, if liked. Bind together with the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Divide it into three portions, and form these into balls. Drop them into fast- boiling water, and let them remain for four minutes. Take them up, drain them, dip them into egg and bread-crimibs, and fry in hot fat tiU they are nicely browned. Make some gravy with the bones and trimmings of the veal. Flavour this nicely, and thicken with brown thickening. Stew the baUs in this gravy a short time before they are to be served, put them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish with slices of lemon. Time to stew the fricandelles, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for three or four per- sons. Veal, rricandelles of (another way). —Prepare the fricandelle mixture as in the last recipe. Put it into a buttered dish which it will half fill, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When the siuface is lightly brown, pour over it a little gravy, stock, or milk, and let it bake twenty minutes longer. Pour off the gravy which swims on the top, mix with it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, again pour it upon the mince, place it in the oven for a few minutes, and serve. Veal, Fricassee of.—Take two pounds, or more if required, of lean veal free from skin and bone. Cut this into small thick pieces convenient for serving, and fry them in hot butter until the flesh is firm without having acquired any colour. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon them, add a small strip of thin lemon-rind, and gradually as much boiling white stock as will cover the meat. Let it simmer very gently till tender. Take out the lemon- rind, flavour the gravy with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and mix with it a quarter of a pint of boiling cream. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, add gradually a little of the sauce (first allowing it to cool for a minute or two), then add it carefully to the remainder. Let the saucepan remain near the fire for three or four minutes till the eggs are sot, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve im- mediately. A few fried rashers of bacon should be served with this dish. A pint of stewed mushrooms may be served with it or not. The remains of di-essed veal may be served in this way. Time, about half an hour to simmer the veal. Probable cost, veal. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Fricassee of (a German recipe).— This is a dish for spring-time. Cut up a breast of veal, stew it till tender in water flavoui-ed with a little salt, bay-leaves, and a bunch of mixed herbs. Boil a dozen crayfish, pick out the meat, and set it aside; stew the shells when pounded in two ounces of butter, and strain them. Make the crayfish, with the exception of the tails, into balls with an equal quantitj-- of bread-crumbs, two eggs, half the crayfish butter, and a little spice. Next boil some aspa- ragus or cauliflower till tender. Make a sauce of two ounces of butter beaten to cream; to which add the yolks of two or three eggs beaten up, two spoonfuls of flour, the rest of the cray- fish butter, and as much of the liquor in which the vegetables were boiled, or broth, as will make it a thin sauce. Now put the meat, the vegetables, and tails into the sauce, together with the balls ; let all simmer for ten minutes ; then take out the meat, boil the sauce a few minutes longer, and pour it over. Be careful to arrange the vegetables, fish, and balls \vith taste. Veal, Fricassee of (another way).—Cut two pounds of veal into neat pieces free from skin, bone, or fat. Melt a slice of butter in a saute-pan, put in the veal, and cook it very gently for five minutes, being specially careful that it does not acquire any colour. Pour on as much stock or mil k and stock as will cover the veal, and simmer gently for about twenty minutes, or until quite tender. Flavour with mace, salt, and white pepper, and add half an inch of lemon-rind if liked. Thicken the sauce with corn-flour, and add a quarter of a pint of good cream, then take the sauce off the fire, and let it cool. Beat the yolks of two eggs. Mix a little of the sauce with them, add them gradually to the rest, and shake the pan over the fire for a minute or two. Serve the prepara- tion on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Veal, GS^teau of.—No. l. Take the re- mains of a roast fillet of veal and the ham that has been served with it, and cut them into neat thin slices. Line an earthenware mould with thin slices of fat bacon, and fill it with layers of ham and veal, intermixed with slices of hard- boiled yolk of eggs. Sprinkle over each layer a seasoning of salt, white pepper, and finelv- shred parsley, with a few truffles cut up small, if they can be had conveniently. Pour clari- fied butter over all, then tie three or four folds of paper tightly over the top of the mould. Bake in a moderate oven, and turn it out in a shape when cold. Time to bake, one hour. No. 2. Minoc finely two pounds of calf's liver with six ounces of fat bacon and a small onioa.