( 1103 ) WAT WAT Watercress Salad.—Gather the water- cress when young, cleanse it thoroughly in salt and water, and serve as fresh as possible. Place it in a bowl, cither alone or mixed with other salad plants, and toss it lightly in a simple salad sauce. "When served at breakfast, water- cress is best sent to table as it is, fresh and crisp. Watercresses, Wholesomeness of. —Watercress acts as a gentle stimiilant and diuretic ; for these purposes the expressed juice, which contains the peculiar taste and pungency of the herb, may be taken in doses of an ounce or two, and continued for a considerable time. It should be at the same time eaten at break- fast, also at dinner, and for supper, to expe- rience benefit from the virtues of this herb, Haller says, " We have seen patients in deep declines cured by almost entirely living on this plant." Water Gruel.—Ascertain whether it is desired that the gruel should be thick or thin. If it is preferred thick, mix two table-spoonfuls of oatmeal smoothly with a little cold water ; if it is preferred thin, one table-spoonful of oatmeal will be sufficient. Boil a pint of water in a saucepan, stir it gradually into the oatmeal in the basin, return the mixture to the sauce- pan, and boil it till smooth. Stir it well to keep it from bm-ning, skim it, strain through a sieve, sweeten, season, or flavour it, and it will be ready for use. The gruel may be used after it has boiled five minutes. It will be better if boUed a qiiarter of an hour. Probable cost, one halfpenny. Sufficient for one person. Water Gruel, Relishes for.—Gruel " may be sweetened and flavoured with nutmeg, ginger, or grated lemon, ale, wine, or spirit; or it may be seasoned with salt and pepper, and flavoured with spices, herbs, mushroom powder, celery-seed, shallots, or onions. \Vhen sweetened with treacle, and taken just before getting into bed, it is one of the best suppers that can be partaken of by any one who is sufier- ing from a cold in the head or on the chest. It is most usually served with a small piece of butter dissolved in it, and either sweetened with sugar or seasoned with salt. Water Ices.—Water ices are made of the juices of ripe fruits mixed with syrup and frozen; and it must be remembered that if the juices are sweetened excessively they will not freeze. It is, therefore, necessary to test them with an instrument called a saccharometer. To do this, put the mixture prepared for freezing in a tumbler, place the saccharometer gently in it: if it is mixed correctly for freezing with powder it will stick to the highest red mark; for freezing with ice and salt to the lowest red mark. To make it sink, add water to the mixture; to make it rise, add syrup. These remarks apply also to ice creams, ice puddings, and all drinks which are to be frozen. For water ices clarified sugar should be used ; and this may be made by boiling for ten minutes, and skimming thoroughly, a quart of water with three pounds of sugar and "half the white of an egg well whisked. Having prepared the mixture and also ascertained its strength, put it into an ice-pot. Place it in the ice-paU, and surround it with ice which has been broken almost to powder and mixed with, salt and a little saltpetre. Work the freezer rapidly for ten minutes; then remove the ice from the sides of the freezer with the ice-spattle, and work it again till it is stiff and smooth. Put it into the mould, and leave it in ice mixed with salt and saltpetre tUl it is to be served. To turn it out, wipe it with a cloth, dip it in cold water for a minute, and wipe it dry; lift off the ends of the mould, and with the fingers push the ice upon its dish. Recipes for the follo^\nng water ices will be found under their respective headings :— Easpberry Cherry Ginger Grape Lemon Melon Orange Pine-APPLE Pomegranate EUM Straw^berry Water in Food.—" The action of water in our food," says a medical writer, "is very important. There would be no carrjdng of food into the system but for the agency of water. It dissolves everything that we take, and nothing that we take as food can become nutriment that is not dissolved in water. It would not do to test that by taking things and putting them into water and seeing whether they dissolve, and rejecting them as food ac- cording to that circumstance; because food un- dergoes a considerable change in the stomach. It undergoes a change to begin with in our mouth. One of the great objects of that change is to render things soluble which had been before insoluble in water. Starch, which we cannot dissolve in water out of the stomach, is dissolved in water directly it gets into the mouth, for the starch is changed by the saliva into sugar, and that which would lie unchanged in water for months is so changed by the saliva of the mouth and the gastric juice of the stomach that it is speedily dissolved. Thus, when we are taking considerable quantities of dry food, it becomes absolutely necessary that we should add a certain quantity of water, so that this drj-- food should become dissolved. Such things as oats, barley, wheat, rice, maize, and other articles of diet containing little water, must have water added, in order that their starch, fat, and gluten may be dissolved, and enter into the system." Water-Melon Rind, To Preserve.— Pare off the outer skin, cut the rind into shapes, green them by simmering with vine-leaves and a little alum, and allow a pound and a quarter of sugar to each pound. Make the syrup, clarify it with the white of an egg, and simmer the melon-rind tiU done through and trans- parent. Boil down the syrup afterwards, and pour it over the preserves. Water, Orange (for flavouring).—Take the thin nnd of oranges, without any of the white part; bruise it in a mortar, and pour as much boiling water upon it as wiU barely cover it. Cover closely. When cold, strain the Hquoxi and bottle for use.