WIN WIN the meat, and press it for half an hour. Pour upon it as much strong veal gravy that will jelly when cold as will cover it, and add a slice of fresh butter. Cover the dish with good pastry, and bake till done enough. Serve cold. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, one hour and a half. Probable cost, fillet of veal, Is. a pound. Wine.—The tei-m wine is more strictly and specially applied to express the fermented juice of the grape, although it is generally used to denote that of any sub-acid fruit. The presence of tartar is, perhaps, the circumstance by which the grape is .most strongly distinguished from all the other sub-acid fruits that have been applied to the purpose of wine-making. The juice of the grape moreover contains within itself all the principles essential to vinification, in such a proportion and state of balance as to enable it at once to undergo a regular and com- plete fermentation, whereas the juices of other fruits require artificial additions for this pur- pose ; and the scientific application and the adjustment of these means constitute the art of making wines. Wine, Apricot. —Take ten gallons of river-water and boil it for half an hour; then set it to cool in a clean vessel. Take forty- five pounds of ripe apricots, cut them into thick slices, and put them with the juice into the water, adding twenty-five pounds of the best loaf sugar. Stir well, cover closely, and leave till the following day; then boil the fruit and liquid together, stir in the whites of eight eggs well beaten, and take off the scum as it rises. When the liquor is clear and the fruit reduced to a pulp, press, strain through a fine sieve into a cooler, add the broken stones, and stir well. Spread good yeast on both sides of a toast, and when the liquor is at the proper warmth work it well two days; strain it through a jelly-bag into the cask, put on the bung lightly, and let it work over, keeping the cask full. When it has done fermenting, add two quarts of French brandy and two ounces of white sugar-candy. Put in the bung, fasten it well, keep the liquor for twelve months, and then bottle it. It must re- main a year or more in bottle, for apricot wine is a very rich wine, and is improved greatly by age. Wine. Beetroot, Bed. — Bruise six quarts of ripe sloes (the fruit of the black thorn) in a stone mortar, breaking the stones, boil them twenty minutes in two quarts of soft water, strain the liquor, and pour it into a stone jar. Scrub well with a soft brush and wash thirty pounds of purple beetroots, but on no account cut or break the skins, and boil them slowly till tender. When cold, peel and slice them into a tub, pour to them the sloe liquor, cover them up, and the following day add the rinds of three lemons and four Seville oranges, and twelve pounds of Smyrna raisins cut in halves. Boil twenty-six pounds of strong moist sugar with nine gallons and a half of soft water three-quarters of an hour, skimming it well, and pour it hot into the tub upon the sliced beetroots, &c.; stir well, and when lukewarm work it well with eight table- spoonfuls of strong yeast, cover it up, and lot it K K* remain three days; then strain the hquor, and filter it into your cask, filling to the bung. Let it work out, and when the fermentation is over, put to the wine sLx ounces of sugar-candy and a quart of French brandy. Then stop it up for a month, rack it off, filter the lees, and put all again into the cask with an ounce of the best isinglass dissolved, and two ounces of bitter almonds blanched and slit, Secui-e the bung, and let the wine stand eighteen months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it a year longer. This is a nice light wine, and has fre- quently been introduced as claret. It improves greatly with age. Wine, Birch..—A wine used to be made from the sap of the birch-tree, though now it is scarcely known. The sap contains so much saccharine matter as to be fermented; it is to be obtained in the month of March, when it begins to ascend, by boring a hole in each tree, about a foot from the ground, large enough to adniit a faucet which is to be inserted. The sap will flow for several days into a vessel placed to receive it, without injury to the tree. Having obtained as much as is necessary, the hole should be stopped with a peg. To a gallon of this sap add a quart of honey or two pounds and a half of sugar, and boil them together, stirring the whole; add also two ounces of hops for every nine gallons, a few cloves, and a rind or two of lemons. Ferment this with yeast, transfer it to the cask, refine with isinglass, and proceed as in making other British wines. In about two months the wine may be bottled, and in two months more it will be fit for use. * It will im- prove by keeping. Wine Biscuits.—Dry one pound of flour and sift it, then rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter, and add three heaped table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, one well-beaten egg, and as much thick cream as will make a stiff paste. RoU it out very thin, stamp it into shapes with the top of a wine-glass, and bake the biscuits on tins in a weU-heated oven. A few currants or caraways may be added if liked. Time to bake the biscuits, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Wine Biscuits (another way).—Ladierf Wine Biscuits. Wine, Bitter.—Take a quart each of red and green camomile, and bruise them -with a pint of wormwood, all being picked nicely from the stalks; lay them in a vessel, and add two ounces of camomile flowers, a handful of rose- mary, and an ounce of gentian root. Boil four gallons of soft water with ten pounds of good loaf sugar, two ounces of ginger bniised, and the whites of four eggs well beaten, half an hour, skimming till quite clear. Pour the liquor scalding on the herbs, cover up close, and let them infuse for four days. At the end of that time warm a part of the liquor, mix it with, the rest, and work it with yeast; strain it into a small cask, and on fermentation ceasing, add an ounce of dissolved isinglass and a pint of bi-andy; stop up the bung, and keep it for nine months; then bottle in pint bottles, seal the corks, and keep for six months longer.