SMA ( 888 ) tbey are neaxly done thi-ough turn them, and let them remain until the outside is brightly browned. Put them on a hot dish, butter them, sprinkle pepper and salt upon them, and serve quickly. A Fi-ench cook would sprinkle pepper and salt upon them, ajid brush them over with butter, before laying them on the gridiron. Small Birds, Fried.—When the birds Ciinnot conveniently be broiled, they may be fiied as follows:—Pluck the birds carefully, split them open, and flatten them ; sprinkle salt and pepper upon them, and roU them in bread- raspings. Dissolve a small slice of fresh butter in a frying-pan; when it is hot, lay the birds in it, and fry them nicely. Put them on a hot dish. Add a table-spoonful of boiling water to the gravy in the pan, let it boil up once, strain it into the dish, and serve very hot. Smelts.—The smelt is a small delicately- flavoured fish, highly esteemed, which, when perfectly fresh and good, possesses an odour, said by some to resemble that of a violet, by others that of a freshly-cut cucumber. It loses this perfume about twelve hours after it is SMELT. taken. It may be dressed in various ways, of which frying is the most usual; it should never be quite plainly boiled, though the recipe for boiling smelts for invalids will be found excel- lent. Smelts are much used to garnish large fish, such as turbot or cod, but they may also be served alone. When fresh, the gills arc red and the eyes bright and full; the body, too, is of a silvery hue. They are in season from October to May. They should be handled as little as possible; should not be washed, but wiped with a soft cloth ; and in drawing them the gills should be pulled gently out, and the inside with them, as the fish must not be opened. The roe should be left inside. When split and dried smelts are called spar- lings. Smelts. Baked (au Gratin). —Take a dozen smelts, clean and dry them, and trim a'/ay the fins. Butter a pie-dish thickly, and STrinkle on the bottom finely-grated bread- cr mbs seasoned with popper and salt, finely- chopped parsley, and shallot. Put the smelts in the dish in a row, sprinkle seasoned bread- crumbs on the top, and pour upon the fish a glassful of sheiTy, a little Harvey's Sauce, or a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and half a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy. Place little pieces of butter here and there on the fish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done enough, serve the smelts quite hot in the dish in which they were baked. Time, a quarter of an hour to bake the smelts. Probable cost. Is. to 2s. per dozen. Sufficient for five or six persons. Smelts, Boiled, for Invalids.—Take a couple of large smelts, draw them carefully, and wipe them gently with a soft cloth; put a quarter of a pint of water into a saucepan with a pinch of salt, a small lump of sugar, and about fifty picked parsley-leaves. When the water boils put in the smelts, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up carefully on a slice, lay them on a dish, and pour the liquor in which they were boiled over them. Be watchful that the fish does not bum to the bottom of the saucepan. If liked, the gravy may be thickened with half a tea-spoonful of arrowroot, to be put with it when the sauce has simmered three minutes. Time to simmer the fish, five minutes, or longer if the smelts are unusually large. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Smelts, Broiled. — Draw carefully and wipe a couple of large smelts, flour them weU, and lay them on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When half done turn them carefully upon the other side. When they are done enough put them on a hot dish, sprinkle a little salt upon them, and serve immediately. A cut lemon or a little sauce may be sent to table with them, if preferred. Time, five or six minutes. Probable cost, about 2d. each. Sufficient for one person. Smelts, Choosing of.—If smelts be fresh, they will be very firm, will have a pecu- liarly strong smell, greatly resembling that of a pared cucumber, and will be of a fine silver hue. Smelts, Fried. —Draw and wipe the smelts, trim off the fins, soak them in milk, and flour them well; or, if preferred, flour them, and then dip them in beaten egg and bread-rasp- ings. Fry in hot fat till they are crisp and brown. Take them up carefully with a slice, di-ain them on blotting-paper, sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve on a napkin on a dish. Put half a lemon at each end of the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. If liked, the lemon may be omitted, and shrimp or Tartare sauce may be served with the smelts. Time to fry the smelts, three to five minutes. Probable cost. Is. to 2s. per dozen. Sufficient, a dozen for five or six persons. Smelts, Fried (another way).—Smelts are usually fried. Clean and empty them, wipe them dry, and dip them into an omelet of two eggs, and into crumbs of bread mixed with flour. Fry them of a fine colour, and send them to table garnished with fried parsley Smelts may be prepared au gratin like soles.