( 865 ) SHE SHE little of the juice may be set aside. When the pulp and sugai- are well rubbed together, pour a little boiling water over them, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Let the syrup cool, strain it, and add wine and spirit till the punch is of the requisite strength. Sometimes the rind and juice of a Seville orange are used to make the sherbet as well as the two lemons. Sherbet, Ice.—Take half a pound of re- fined sugar in lumps; rub these upon the rind of three lemons until the yellow part is rubbed off. Put the sugar into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of two oranges and of the lemons. Add a pint of cold spring water, and stir the mixture until the sugar is quite dissolved. Freeze in the usual way, and serve in glasses. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a pint and a half of ice. Sherbet, Lemon.—Rub one pound and a half of loaf sugar upon nine fresh lemons until the yellow part is taken off. Put the sugar into a bowl,. squeeze upon it the juice of the lemons, and add a quart of water. Stir the Uquor till the sugar is dissolved, strain, and freeze as for ice cream. Sherbet, Lemon (another way).—See Lemon Sherbet. Sherbet, Persian (see Persian Sherbet —a refreshing summer beverage). Sherbet Powder.—Rub half a pound of loaf sugar upon the rind of a lemon tiU the yellow part is taken off. Crush the sugar to powder, and mix intimately with it four ounces of tartaric acid and four ounces of bicarbonate of soda. Rub the mixture through a fine sieve; put it into a dry bottle, and keep it well corked until wanted. If liked, forty or fifty drops of essence of lemon may be used instead of the lemon-rind. The powder must be taken up with a dry tea-spoon. Sufficient for one pound of sherbet. A tea-spoonful of this powder stirred into a tumbler of water will make a refre^ng summer drink. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Sherbet, Rich.—Grate the thin rinds of fresh lemons with lumps of loaf sugar, and press the juice and pulp out into a bowl, re- jecting the seeds. Crush the sugar, rubbing and blending the ingredients with a silver spoon. Then add calf's-feet jelly, newly made, and madeira wine, with any spirit you please. Stir a long while, and after the sherbet has stood two or three hours, filter it until beauti- fully clear. Sherbet, Rhubarb (a pleasant summer beverage).—Take six or eight sticks of ripe red rhubarb. Wash it well, and without skinning it cut it up into short lengths. Put it into a saucepan with a quart of water, and let it boil till the flavour is extracted. Rub the rind of a fresh lemon upon three ounces of fine sugar in lumps. Stir this into the liquor until dissolved. Let the sherbet stand in a cool place fi.ve or six hours, filter through muslin, and it will be ready for use. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. 2 e Sherbet, Strawberry.—Pick a pound of ripe strawberries, and bruise them well in a bowl. Mix with them the strained juice of a lemon and a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and pour upon them three pints of cold spring water. Let them soak for four hours. Powder a pound of white sugar, and put it into another bowl. Squeeze the strawberry liquor into this through muslin, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Strain it again, and set it on ice till wanted. Serve in glasses. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost of straw- berries, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Sherbet, Turkish (a wholesome and refreshing beverage).—Boil two pounds of loaf sugar with a pint and a half of water to a clear syrup. Skim carefuUy, and pour it into a bowl. When cold, stir into it a pint and a half of strained lemon-juice and cme quart of white veal stock, clear and strong. Serve in glasses. Sherry {see Wines). Sherry and Hops Cordial (see Hops and Sherry Cordial). Sherry, British (Robinson's- recipe).— Mix well eleven gallons of river water with, thirty-five pounds of strong moist sugar, the whites of twelve eggs well beaten, a.nd six pounds of honey, and boil them slowly, nearly two hours, skimming until the liquor is clear and bright. Pour it boiling hot upon a peck of the young shoots and buds of the sweetbriar, the thin peels of ten Seville oranges and their juice, and ten ounces of gum arable. Stir it well half an hoiir, and when at the proper temperature work it with fresh yeast, and let it remain four or five days; then strain it into the cask upon two quarts of the pure juice of Lisbon grapes, ten ounces of sugar-candy broken small, and an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and beaten fine. Keep the bung out as long as the fer- mentation continues, and the vessel completely filled, and when it is quiet take the scum off the surface, add three pints of French brandy, and stop it up safely for two years or more; then bottle it^ and keep it eighteen months longer, when it wiH be excellent. Sherry Cobbler.—Take half a tumblerful of ice rasped into fine shavings. Add two mode- rate-sized lumps of sugar which have been rubbed upon the yellow part of half a lemon, then crushed to powder, and two glassfuls of sherry. Stir all briskly together, or pass the mixture quickly from one glass to another, and drink the liquor through a straw or glass tube. When time is a consideration, the cobbler can be flavoured by mixing with the ice a quarter of a lemon, or a quarter of an orange cut into small pieces, and adding a spoonful of powdered sugar. By way of variety, a cupful of straw- berries or raspberrios and a table-spoonful of cura9oa, may be substituted for the lemon. Sherry Cream {see Cream, Sherry). Sherry, GranitO (see Granito Sherry). Sherry, Wholesomeness of. — This •wine is free from tlie astriugency of port, and