( 528 ) PEA PEA thorn to a bubble,' is to take them out with a spoon, und tasto thorn. "Whon thoy aro doiio euougli, di'iiiu thorn on a huir siovo. If you liko thoiu butttii'od, put tlioui into a i)io-diHh, divido sonio buttoi- into wniall bitu, and lay thom on the peas; put another dish over thoui, and turn thom over and over; this will molt tlio butter through thom; but as all people do not liko buttered peas, you had bettor send tliom to table plain as thoy come out of tho saucepan, with molted butter in a sauce tui-eon. It is usual to boil some mint with the peas; but if you wish to garuisli tho pons witli mint, boil a few sprigs in a saucepan by themselves. A peck of young peas will not yield more than enough for a couple of hearty pea-eaters; when tho pods aro full, it may servo for three. Never think of purchasing peas ready-shelled, for the cogent reasons assigned in the first part of this recipe." Peas, G-reen, Bottled.—Shell the peas, put them into dry wide-mouthed bottles, and shake them together so that they may lie in as little space as possible. Cork the bottles closely, and seal the corks. Bury the bottles in the driest part of the garden, and take them up as they are wanted. They will keep good five or six months. Peas, Green, Bottled (another way).— Choose peas which are large and f uUy grown, though not old. Put them into perfectly dry mde-mouthed bottles, shake them down, cork securely, and cover the corks with bladder. Tie a wisp of hay round the lower part of the bottles to prevent their knocking against each other in the pan, put them side by side in a large saucepan, and pour into it as much cold water as will reach to- their necks. Put the saucepan on the fire, and let it remain for two hours after the water has reached the boiling point, then take it off, but do not remove the bottles until the water is cold. Seal the corks, and store in a cool dry place. Peas, Green, Old, How to Cook.— When peas are old they should be shelled, and soaked in water for some time before being cooked. If of superior quahty they will only require soaking about half an hour, but if not three or four hours will not be too much for them. An excellent dish may be made with old peas, by soaking them as above directed, and then stewing with them a small piece of beef, or salt pork. The time required for cook- in" wiU of course depend upon the weight of the meat. It is best, however, to use as much water only as will barely cover the peas. Serve the meat and vegetables on the same dish, and as hot as possible. Time, half an hour for the peas. Probable cost, 6d. per peck. Peas, Green, Preserved.—Take the peas when they are fully grown, but not old Shell them, throw thom into boiling water, and let them boil for ten minutes, then dram well, spread them out on tins, and put them m a cool oven once or twice to harden. When done piit them into paper bags, tie up securely, and hang in a dry warm room until wanted. Before using them, soak them in water for_ a bttle while, and put an ounce of butter into the water in which they are boiled. Peas, Green. Preserved (other ways) Fill a tin box witn thom, pour iu a bttle water wliich has boon salted, put on th(! C(jvor, wlxich must bo soldered, so that the box sliall be her- metically tiglit, and ihon boil the box. Or, dry tho pcuia in a cool oven, and afterwards hang thom up in paper bags. Or, gather the peas on a fine dry day, open the pods on a large clean cloth, and leave tho peas for five or six houis exposed to tho sun and air. Rub them gently in a rough towel till they are perfectly dry, bottle them as air-tight as possible, and store in a dry place. Peas, Green, Puree of.—Throw the peas into as much boiling water as will cover thom. Season with salt and sugar, and wlien they are quite soft di-ain in a colander, and press them through a fine hair sieve. Put the pulp into a stewpan, with one-eighth of its bulk of good stock or white sauce, or, if pre- ferred, with three or four ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is very hot, and serve immediately. This puree is used with lamb cutlets, and various other meats. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of peas, when in full season, 6d. per peck. Suflicient, a peck for four or five persons. Peas, Green, Soup.—In making green peas soup it is most important that the peas used should neither be old nor of inferior quality, or the flavour of the soup wiU be spoilt. They are best when they are almost fully grown. SheU a peck of green peas and put aside about a tandful of these to be used as hereafter directed. Put the rest into H stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter, a fresh lettuce finely shred, a small sprig of mint (if the flavour be not disliked), a moderate- sized onion, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dozen leaves of spinach for colouring. Let the vegetables steam gently in the butter until they are quite soft, stirring occasionally to prevent their burning, then press them through a fine sieve, and mix with the pulp two quarts of clear stock or water. Return the soup to the sauce- pan, add a small lump of sugar and a dessert- spoonful of arrowroot, mix smoothly with water and stock to make half a pint. Stir this into the hquid, boil, and skim carefully. Wliilst it is simmering, put the handful of peas which were put aside into another saucepan of boiling water with half a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar. Let the peas boil until tender, then drain them weU, and put them into the soup. Serve as hot as possible. Send a little powdered mint to table on a plate. Peas are so nourishing that stock is not needed for this soup, and the colour will be better if water be used. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per quart. Peas, Green, Soup, Economical.- The slioUs of peas arc sometimes used m making soup, and tho flavour and colour of the soup are improved thereby. Shell a pock of young peas, wash the shells, throw them into two quarts of boiling water with a dessert-spoonful of salt, a toa-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a sprig or two of parslov, ""d boil them for half an hour. Sti-ain the liquid, and rub the aholls