POR ( 600 ) POR 4. Foro To be jointed and loin. rousted. Cut into chops, used for curry or for pica. 9id. to lOid. per pound. 6. Hind Ditto, ditto. lid. per loin. pound. 6. Log. Roasted, or salted lOd. to lid. and boiled. Most per pound. economical joint. Head. Stuffed like a 6d. to Gjd. sucking-pig and per pound. roasted, or cheeks saltedand boiled. The rest of the head, with the tongue, feet, and eai's, salted and made into brawn. Fry, in- To be cooked as o d. per eluding soon as possible. pound, the liver, heart, kidneys, &c. Feet. Salted, boiled, and Hd. to 3d. served with each, parsley sauce. A bacon pig is cut up differently. The chine is in some parts cut from the centre of the pig the whole length from the tail to the neck. In other parts the meat which is taken from the upper part of the spine, between the shoulders, is called the chine, and the hind loin the griskin. The chine may be salted and boiled, or roasted. It is highly esteemed. The hind leg is salted and cured, and called ham; the fore leg is generally left with the side, and salted for bacon. The spare rib is sometimes cut out, oftener it is left with the bacon. Some- times the meat for bacon is cut oft' from the shoulder-blade and bones, and the latter, with very little meat on them, are divided into chines, spare-ribs, and griskins. The inner fat is melted down for lard. In pickling pork great care must be taken that every part is basted regularly and turned about the brine. If any portion is long exposed to the air it may be spoiled. Pork (a la mode).—Large pork, such as por- tions of the shoulder, loin, or spare rib, of large bacon hogs, may be cooked as follows:—Rub the joint with pepper and salt, and put it into a large saucepan which ha.s a closely-fitting Hd. Add two or three onions and caiTots, with half a dozen sticks of celery, four sage-loaves, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of mar- joram and thjTne, and as much stock or water as will cover the whole. Let the liquid boil, skim carefully, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours, according to the size of the joint. When the pork is done enough, lift it out, put the vegetables round it, strain and thicken a portion of the gravy, find pour it boiling hot over the pork. When the ])ork is removed from the table, trim it neatly, place it on a clean dish, strain and thicken the rest of the gravy, and pour it over the meat. It will be ready fu^ serving when cold. Time to boil the pork, twenty-two minutes per pound from tlie time the water boils. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Pork and Apple Pie.—Cut the pork m thin slices, and season these with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of thijse, and of apples which have been pared, cored, and sliced. Add a little sugar for sweetening, and as much white wine as will moisten the contents of the dish, and place two or three good-sized lumps of butter upon the top. Cover the whole with a good crust, and bake in a hot oven. Time to bake a moderate-si;ied pie, one hour and a half. Pork, Belly of.—The belly of pork is generally either pickled and boUed, or salted and cured for bacon, and it may be dressed as follows :—Take the belly of a porker, either fresh or salted, lay it, skin downwards, flat on the table, and sprmkle over the inside a savoury powder made of two table-spoonfulB of finely- grated bread-crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sage, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of pepper, and two finely-minced shallots. RoU the meat tightly roimd, bind it with tape, and either bake it or roast it. It may be served hot with brown gravy, or allowed to grow cold, and then be pressed. Time to roast or bake, twenty minutes per pound. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Pork, Belly of, Rolled and Boiled. —Salt a belly of pork; young meat will be the best for the purpose. To do this, mix a salt- spoonful of powdered saltpetre with two table- spoonfuls of common salt, sprinkle the mixture over the pork, and let it lie for three days. When ready to dress the meat, wash it in cold water, and dry it with a cloth. Lay it, skin downwards, on a table, remove the bones, and cover the inside with pickled gherkins cut into very thin slices. Sprinkle over these a little powdered mace and pepper. Roll the meat tightly, and bind securely with tape. Put it into a saucepan with two onions stuck with six cloves, three bay-leaves, a bimch of parsley, and a sprig of thjone. Bring the liquid slowly to the boil, skim carefully, draw it to the side, and simmer gently till the meat is done enough. Put it between two dishes, lay a weight upon it, and leave it until it is quite cold. The bandages should not be removed until the meat is to be served. Time to simmer, half an hour per pound. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Pork Black Puddings.-When black puddings or blood puddings are liked at all they are generally liked very much. They are boiied in the intestines of the hog, and these must of course be very carefully prepared for them ns follows : — Empty them, wash and scrape them in several waters, turning thcin inside out two or three times, and lay them in salt and water all night. The next day rinse them in fresh cold water, and thoy wiU be ready for use. To make the puddings, throw a little salt into a quart of the warm blood, and stir until the blood is cold. Mix with it a quart of whole groats which have been soaked in