TUR ( 1017 ) TUB they are done. Drain, and throw them into a aaucepjin with slightly-salted boiling water. Keop them covered, and let them boil till tender. Drain them by placing them in a bowl and pressing a plate upon them to squeeze out tlie moisture. Mash well, find carefully remove any stringy portions there may be among them. If necessary, pass them through a colander. Mix with them a little pepper and Siilt, a slice of butter, and a table-spoonful or two of cream or milk. Stir the pulp over the fire until it is hot and quite dry. Serve very hot. Time to boil, three-quarters of an horn- to an hoiu- and a half. Probable cost, 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Snfficipnt, one bimch for five or six persons. Turnips, Puree of.—Pare and wash half a dozen large sound turnips, and split them into halves, or even into quarters. Boil them till they are very tender, and press the water thoroughly from them. Pass them thi-ough a hair sieve, and put them back into the sauce- pan. Dredge a small quantity of flour over them, and add a little white pepper and salt, a slice of butter, half a tea-spoonful of white sugar, and a quarter of a pint of cream or milk. Stir them over the fire until they are quite dry and stiff. Serve the puree in the centre of a dish, and aiTange cutlets, &c., neatly round it. Some cooks add a little gi-ated nutmeg or a little powdered ginger to turnip puree. Time to simmer with the cream, about ten minutes; to boil, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half, according to age and size. Probable cost, 6d. per bunch. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnips, Stewed (a la Fran9aise).—Peel and wash half a dozen tm-nips, and boil them in salted water till tender. Take them up, drain them, and in the water in which they have been boiled simmer gently a cupful of bread-crumbs for five or six minutes. Wash the turnips, and put them into another saucepan with the boiled bread and a little butter and pepper. Stir over a gentle fire till they are quite hot, and mi.x with them the yolk of an egg beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of milk. Let them stew gently a minute or two longer, and serve very hot. Turnips prepared thus are very good as an accompaniment to boiled mutton, veal, or poultry. Time, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half to boil the turnips. Probable cost, 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnips Stewed in Gravy.—Pare and wash the turnips, and cut them into small square I)i(^ccs, or turn them to the shape of balls or pears. Put them into a saucepan, pour over thorn as much boiling gravy as will cover them, and add a little salt and pepper and a small lump of sugar. Let them simmer gently until they are tender. Put them in a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve very hot. Time to stew, three-quarters of an hour or more, according to age. Probable cost, 6d. per bunch. Turnips, White Puree of.—If you want to make a very wliite ])ureo, you must mince the turnips, blanch thorn in boiling water, and drain and sweat them over a very I slow fire in a little butter to prevent their getting brown. When they are done enough, add two or three spoonfuls of bechamel, strain them like a puree through a tamis, reduce, and serve surrounded with fried toasts of bread. If they are for entremets, the puree must be thicker; if for garnishing entrees, richer and more tasty. Turnips with White Sauce.—Prepare the turnips as before, stew them in graAy, and when they are quite tender lift them out with- out breaking them, drain them, and put them in a tureen. Have a tea-spoonful of arrowroot already mixed smoothly with a quarter of a pint of cream or milk. Mix the sauce gradually with this, put it back into the saucepan, and let it boil. Take it from the fire for a few minutes, stir half an ounce of cold butter into it: when this is dissolved pour the sauce over the turnips, and serve very hot. Time to stew the turnips, three-quarters of an hour or more, ac- cording to age and size. Probable cost, tur- nips, 5d. to 7d. per bimch. Sufficient, halt' a bunch of turnips for foui- or five persons. Turnips with White Sauce (another way).—Cut them in the shape of pears or balls; boil them in salt and water and butter, and when done enough di-ain them and serve with a white sauce, to which you may add a little mustard if approved of. Turnips, Young.—Wash and peel a dozen young turnips, and put them into a saucepan with a pint of milk; add a little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently. When they are half-dressed, put with them half an ounce of butter rolled in dour. Serve very hot. Time to simmer the turnips, about half an hour. Turnips, Young, Stewed in Butter. —Take two pounds of mild young turnips, cut them into small squares, or turn them to any shape that may be preferred. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the vegetables in a single layer. Put in the turnips, and simmer them very gently until they are tender without being broken. A few minutes before they are done enough, sprinkle a little salt and white pepper over'them. Put them in the centre of a dish, and arrange fried or broiled cutlets neatly round them. Time, three-quarters of an hour to an hour to stew the turnips. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnovers.—Make some good pastry, roll it out to the thickness of a quai-ter of an inch, and stamp it in rounds from four to seven inches in diameter, lay fresh fruit and sugar, or jam, on one half of the pastry, moisten the edges, and turn the other half right over. Press the edges closely, ornament them in any way, and brush the turnovers with white of egg. Sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them, and bake on tins in a brisk oven. Serve on a dish covered with a neatly-folded napkin. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient, one pound of pastry will make two dozen turnovers. Turnovers (another way).—iSee also Yvvit Pasties or Turnovers.