( 1043 ) VEA VEA some finely-grated bread-crumbs, season witb pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and add a table-spoonful of pai-sley which has been scalded and finely minced. Fry the cutlets in butter or di-ipping till they are cooked through and nicely browned, then serve as in the last recipe. Time to fry the cutlets, ten to fifteen minutes. Veal Cutlets, Fried (a laMaintenon).— Cut three or four cutlets from the best end of a ucck of veal. Trim them neatly in the usual manner, and fry them in melted butter until they are lightly browned on both sides. Allow them to cool, then cover each one smoothly with good sauce, wrap it in oiled paper, and fold the edges together lightly and securely, that the gravy may not escape. Put the cutlets on an oiled tin into a brisk oven, and allow them to remain until the envelopes are lightly browned; serve very hot. The sauce may be made in the following manner:—Fry gently in one ounce of butter, one ounce of lean ham; add one ounce and a half of flour and half a pint of stock, then stir the sauce till it boils. Put in four button mushirooms. Skim away the fat, and when the mixtui-e is very thack and smooth stir in off the fire four egg-yolks. When cool the sauce is ready for use. Time to simmer the cutlets in the fat, one hour. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Gravy for.—Put the bones and trimmings of the veal into a sauce- pan, barely cover them with cold water, and add (for a pint of water) a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme or marjoram, a small roll of thin lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, and a little pepper. A little bacon-rind may be added if it is at hand. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the stock gently tiU it is strong and nicely flavoured. Strain it, thicken with brown thickening, and let it simmer by the side of the fire tUl it has thrown up the grease. If the cutlets have been fried, lift them from the pan, and pour away the fat, leaving the brown gravy at the bottom. Pour the thickened sauce upon this gravy, stir well, boil it a few minutes, add a Httle salt if required, and then strain it over the meat. A few spoonfuls of cream may be added to the gi'avy if liked. Time, one hour to simmer the trimmings of veal. Veal Cutlets, Larded. — Take some cutlets of an equal thickness from the best end of a neck of veal. Trim these neatly, flatten f hem with a cutlet-bat, and lard the lean part with thin strips of fat bacon, with which, for a superlative dish, strips of red tongue and black truffle may be intermixed. Put the cutlets into a saucepan, and barely cover them with nicely- flavoured stock to which a glassful of light wine has been added. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the cutlets simmer gently until they are quite tender. Drain the gravy from them, and press them between two dishes with a weight upon them till they are cold. Strain the gravy, free it from fat, and boil quickly till it is considerably reduced. When the cutlets are to be served, heat them in the oven, dish them in a circle, pour the gravy over them, and place Fi-ench beans, or mushi-ooms, turnip, sorrel, or endive pui-6e in the centre. Time to stew the cutlets, according to thickness. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets Larded and Served Cold (Superlative).—Take six or eight thick veal cutlets, and prepare them as in the last recipe. Put them between two dishes, and press them tOl cold; then trim them neatly, and brush them over twice with liquid glaze. Serve on a dish, and garnish with aspic jelly and Montpellier butter. They will have a good appearance arranged as follows:—Boil some rice in water till it is tender and quite dry, then pound it, and press it into a flat round mould. When it is cold and stiff turn it out, place it in the centre of a dish, cover with Montpellier butter, arrange the cutlets rou}id it with the bones inward, and put a little chopped aspic jeUy between each one. Ornament the top of the rice with Montpellier butter and aspic jelly, fill the bottom of the dish with chopped aspic, and serve. Veal Cutlets made from Cold Dressed Veal.—Take a pound and a half of cold veal free from skin or gristle, and half a pound of lean ham or tongue. Mince the meat finely, pound it in a mortar, season with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, and add a tea- spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of anchovy, two table-spoonfuls of strong veal grdvy, the grated rind and juice of a small lemon, and a quarter of a pound of clarified butter. Half a cupful of rice boiled in milk tiU soft and pounded may be added if liked, and a little yolk of egg may be used to bind the mixture together. Form the jDaste into cutlets ; dip these into clarified butter, di-edge flour upon them, and egg and bread-crumb them twice. Fry them in hot fat, or bake them in a brisk oven, basting them two or thi'oe times whilst they are there. Send tartar sauce or any other piquant sauce to table with them. A little good stock thickened with brown thickening, and flavoured with lemon-juioe or lemon pickle, will answer the purpose, when the ingredients for tartar sauce cannot be procured. Time to fry the cutlets, eight to ten minutes; to bake them, about a quarter of an hour. Veal Cutlets. Roasted (ala Maintenon). —Take a cutlet ot veal from the fillet. Cut it into neat pieces, and flatten these vnth a cutlet- bat. Spread upon them a little good veal force- meat, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and put them on a skewer. Cover them evenly with oiled paper, and roast before a clear fire. Send piquant sauce to table with them. Veal Cutlets, Russian Mode of Dressing.—Slake a little Russian sauce in a quantity sufficient to coat the cutlets upon one side only to the thickness of half an inch. This sauce may be made in the following pro- portions. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, and put with it a stick of horseradish grated, a finely-minced shaUot, a pinch of powdered herbs, a spoonful of grated ham, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a table-spoon- ful of sheiTy, a aniall himp of sugar, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the Baui'cijun