oabbell's cookery. 1170 spread on after the tai-tlet is baked, and small ornaments of pastry which have been stumped out with the cutter, and baked separately, may be laid on the jam. Tartiet this should be oiled or buttered before the pastry is put on. When they are done with they shoukf be scalded and dried, and kept in a dry place. Tea Kettle.—Tea kettles are made of copper, iron, and blocked-tin. Iron kettles are very durable, but the water in them is a long time in coming to the Ijoil. Blocked-tin kettles boil quickly, but they have not nearly so much wear in them as an iron kettle. Blocked-tin kettles, with copper bottoms, are perhaps l>ett(ir than any other, as they are durable, and the water in them boils quickly. Cojjper kettle-s are genemlly intended to be brought into the dining-room. They should be cleaned every day either with vitriol or with oil and emery-powder. A tai-nished copper kettle has a very bad appearance. Probable cost, blocked-tin kettle, Ss. The price increases with the quality and size. Tongs.—One very important accompaniment to the gridiron is a pair of cooking tongs for turning chops and steaks. Cooks should never by any chance stick a fork into a steak or chop, as thereby all the gravy is let out, nms into the fire, and is wasted, and the meat instead of looking red inside will look white. When a chop or steak is cooked again, the cook should never cut it open to see if it is done, but should simply judge from pincliing it with the tongs. If it feels what may be described as spongy outside, it is evidently blue in the middle. The meat when pinched should feel soft; but neither hard which means over-cooked, or spongy which means underdone. When there are no tongs for the purpose, the chop or steak Ls best turned by means of two iron spoons. TuRBOT Kettle.—A turbot kettle is a fish kettle made broad and shallow to suit the shape of the fish for which it is intended. It is fitted with a drainer, like an ordinary fish kettle. Pi"ice, from £1. Vegetable Cutters.—Vegetable cutters are sold in boxes, and are wsed to stamp vegetables into neat shapes for garnishing dishes. The appearance of a dish is very much improved if the turnips and carrots placed round it are shaped, instead of being plainly sliced. Probable cost, vegetable cutters, 3s. a box. Vegetable scoops are sold for the same purpose. They cost Is. 6d. each. Warren's Cooking Pot.—Probably by means of this invention less food is wasted than in any other known methods of cooking. For instance, when a leg of mutton is roasted or baked, a certain amount of flavour and nutriment must of necessity go up the chimney; or when a leg of mutton is boiled, a certain amount of juice necessarily goes into the water in which it is boiled. Warren's cooking pot cooks meat in an almost air-tight chamber, heated by steam. Thus the meat cooks in its own vapour. w is a large oval-shaped pot, into which is fitted an inner case A, leaving a space into which water is poured. The lid c may now be placed on, and the pot, so far as cooking meat is concerned, is complete. The meat of course is placed in the chamber A. The pot is placed on the tire, and the water in w kept boiling, the steam of course arising and sun-ounding the chamber a, but not entering it. The lid c is made double for the purpose of condensing the steam, which runs back mto w. There is, however, a small hole in the lid c in the top, in order to let out the steam in case it should boU too fast. A good-sized leg of mutton takes about three hours to cook by this means. Shortly before it is done, open the chamber a, and pour into a basin all the liquor and melted fat that has run out of the leg of mutton owing to the heat, and replace the mutton in A. Strain ofi" the fat, which of coui-se must be kept for di-ipping, and warm up this liquor (from the condensation of the steam of the mutton, perchance increased by a trifling escape from the steam m the outer chamber) fresh in a small saucepan, and use it as the gf^yj^ P^"/ over the meat when served on a dish. In a leg of mutton cooked m Warrens cooking pot, a saving of quite ten per cent., if not more, is efi-ected. Joints of meat can be cooked in Warren's pot till nearly done, and then browned before the fare, but a leg of mutton served as a boiled leg cooked this way is far preferable. The portion a of the pot is for cooking vegetables, and can be placed on the top of the chamber A