(691 ) 1>LU Kquid is strongly flavoiired with, them, then strain it, and put it aside until wanted. Place the fruit in a saucepan with as much water only as will keep it from burning. Add a glass of claret, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and a slice of toasted bread, and simmer all gently together until the plums are quite soft. Press the whole through a coarse sieve, add the liquid from the kernels and as much sugar as will sweeten the sauce. If it is too thick, stir in a little more water before serving. Time, according to the quality of the plums. Suf- ficient, half a pint of sauce for five or six persons. Plum Sauce, Simple, for Sweet Puddings.—Wash and stone a pound of ripe red plums. Put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a poimd of sugar and a quarter of a pint of water. Let them boil to a pulp, and stir them occasionally to prevent their burning. Press them through a coarse sieve, and serve them in a tureen or poured over the pudding. Time to boil the plums, about half an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Soup (a German dish.).—Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a small stewpan, add an ounce of flour, and stir the mixture smoothly together until it is lightly coloured. Pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling water, add a little cinnamon for flavouring and as many ripe plums as the liquid will cover. Boil the plums to a pulp. Press aU through a sieve. Sweeten the juice, and mix with it equal por- tions of water and claret until it is of the con- sistency of thick cream. Eetum the soup to the saucepan. Throw into it a dozen or more ripe plums. When these are soft, without being broken, serve immediately. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, 8d. a quart, exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plum Tart.—Line the edge of a tart-dish with puff-paste or with good short crust. Fill the dish with plums, and sprinkle a little moist sugar over them. The quantity of sugar required wiU depend upon the quality of the plums. Cover the dish with pastry, bake in a moderate oven, and serve the tart hot or cold. The ap- pearance of the tart will be improved if it is glazed. To do this, take it from the oven before it is quite done enough. Brush it over with white of egg which has been whisked to a froth, and cover with finely-sifted sugar. Sprinkle a few drops of water over it, and return it to the oven to set the glaze. Or, before putting it in the oven, brush it quickly with cold water and sprinkle white sugar upon it. Probable cost. Is. for a moderate-sized tart. Plum Tart, French {see Frencli Plum Tart). Plum Vol-au-vent. —Boil six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for ten mmutes. Take off the stalks from a pound of plums, wash and drain them, and then put them into the syrup. Let them boil up once, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer them very gently for about throe minutes, or until they are quite tender without being broken. Lift the plums out carefully, boil the syrup tmtil it is considerably reduced and very thick, strain it, and when cold pour it over the fruit. Plums prepared in this way may be used for large and small vol-au-vents. The fruit should not be put into the pastry until the moment before it is to be served. Plum Wine.—A wholesome wine is oc- casionally made from plums with, or without other fruits and ingredients. Plums, Compote of.—Boil half a pint of water with from six to ten ounces of loaf sugar for ten minutes. Put in a pound of plums, and let them simmer until they are tender without being broken. Lift them out, place them on a compote dish, and pour the syrup over them. The amount of sugar used, and the length of time the fruit is boiled, must be regulated by the quality of the plums. Plums, Frencli or Dried.—French plums (known in France as pruneaux) are made from fresh fruit which has been slowly and carefully deprived of its moisture, by being placed alternately in the sunshine and in an oven. These plums are the object of a con- siderable trade in different parts of France, particularly in the Touraine and the Agenois. They are exported in large quantities to other countries, and are considered exceedingly whole- some. They may be had all the year round, but they are mostly used for dessert in winter time, when fresh fruit cannot be obtained. They may be bought either loose, in bottles, or in pretty ornamental boxes which are intended to be placed upon the table. Probable cost, Is. to 2s. per pound. Plujns, French, Stewed for Dessert. —Soak a pound of French plums. Put them into a saucepan with the water in which they were soaked, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Lift out the fruit, strain the liquid, and make a syrup of it by boiling with it four ounces of loaf sugar. When it is quite clear, put in the plums, the rind and juice of half a lemon, and a glass of port. Stew gently for an hour and a half. When the preparation is cold, put the plums into a glass dish, pour the syrup over them, and serve. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plums, French, Stewed (another way), —See French Plums, Stewed. Plums in Vinegar.—Take three pounds of mussel plums, sound and ripe, and rub them with a soft cloth. Boil a pound of loaf sugar in a pint and a half of vinegar, with a dozen cloves, and a quarter of an ounce of stick cin- namon. Put in the plums, a few at a time, and let them simmer gently. As the skins crack, lift them carefully out, and put them on dishes to cool. When they are cold lay them in a deep jar, and shake them to make them lie closely together. They ought not to be at all soft. Boil the vinegar and sugar a few minutes longer, then pour it out, and when it is cold strain it over the plums, which it ought to cover entirely. Leave the jar in a cool place for a week. At the end of that time strain off the 8>Tup and boil it. If the plums are hard, pour the syrup hot over them, if soft, let it get cold