PRtT ( 660 ) wring it well, and drodgo a littlo flour over it. I'onv tlio piidiliiif^ into it, and tie it Hocuroly, but loavci !i littlo room for tho pudding to swell, riungo it into boiling water, and keep tho pud- ding boiling until it is done enough. Horvo with sweet sauce. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 7d. SulKcient for live or six persons. Prune Roly-poly Pudding. — Wash and stone a pound of prunes. lUanch the kernels, and put thorn into a stowpan with tho fruit, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, half a pint of water, and a glassful of port. Boil tho prunes to a thick paste. lloU out a piece of pastry, such as is used for boiled pudding, a third of an inch thick. Spread the fruit upon it, moisten the edges, and make it into a roll. Fasten the ends securely. Tie the pudding in a tloured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil it quickly till done enough. Send wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, about two hours and a half. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Prune Sauce for Puddings.—Wash a quarter of a pound of prunes, and simmer them in as much water as will cover them until they are quite soft. Drain and stone them, and blanch the kernels. Put fruit and kernels into a stewpan with the liquid in which they were boiled, a glassful of wine, the strained juice of half a lemon, a small strip of thin lemon-rind, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon. Simmer gently for ten minutes, then rub the sauce with the back of a wooden spoon through a ^arse sieve. If the pulp is too thick, dilute ita^th a little water. Time, one hour. Probable cost of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Prunes and Prunelloes.—Prunes and prunelloes are a sort of dried plums, of which there are many varieties. The finest prunes come to us from France, large quantities being exported from Bordeaux. The best prunes are packed in hampers or baskets made of white osiers, weighing from six to ten pounds each. Prunes, when stewed, form an excellent article of diet for convalescents or persons in delicate health, as they act as gentle laxatives. Prunes, Stewed, for Dessert.—Wash the prunes, and let them soak all night in as much water as will cover them. Lift them out, and let the liquid stand a little while, then drain it from the sediment, and put it into a stewpan with a small quantity of sugar, if desired, and a little lemon-rind and cinnamon for flavouring. Stew gently for half an hour. Add as much wine as may be wished—port is the most suitable for the purpose—and stew twenty minutes longer; serve cold, in a glass dish. Probable cost of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Prunes, Tisane of, for Irritation of the Throat,—This simple beverage, if sipped in small quantiticis at intervals, will greatly re- lieve ii-ritation of the vocal organs. If it is too sweet to be agreeable it may bo diluted with water, or oven sharpened with strained lemon- juice. Boil half a poimd of prunes in a quart ^—— of water for three-quarters of an hour, and keep up tli(! (piantity of the liquor l^y adding a littlo fresli water occaHionally. Pour ofl' tho liquor, and when cold it is roftdy for una. Few children will refuse to eat the prunes after they have been boiled. Probable Wist of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for a quart of liquor. Prussian Balls,—Knead half a pound of ilour with lialf an ounce of fresh yeast and as inuch milk as will make a stiff dough. Put it into a bowl, throw a wanu cloth over it, and set it by the fire to rise. When it is light, mix it up with an ounce and a half of clarified butter, two weU-beaten eggs, and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar flavoured with lemon-rind, and knead it until it leaves the sides of the bowl in a lump. Make it into little balls, insert inside each one a tea-spoonful of good jam, and close the aperture. Put tho baUs on a floured paper, and lay this on a tin; put it in a warm place, and let them rise once more. When light, throw them into hot fat, and fry till they are lightly and equally browned all over. Drain them well, servo on a hot dish, and sift powdered sugar thickly over them. Time, five minutes or more, according to size. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prussian Cutlets.—Take a pound of lean meat—beef, mutton, or veal—and two ounces of fat Cut it into dice, and mix with it a little salt and pepper, and four ounces of bread-crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced onion, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Mix the meat with the seasoning, and bind it together with egg yolk. Divide it into portions the size of an egg, press it well together, and make it up into the shape of cutlets. Stick a little piece of bone in at the nan-ow end, and brush the cutlets over twice with beaten egg. Sprinkle grated bread-crumbs thickly over them, and fry in hot fat over a slow fire till they are brightly browned, then brush them over witli glaze. Place them in a circle roimd a hot dish, and put a mound of hot dressed vegetables in the centre. Send good brown gra\y, tomato, Robert, or onion sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the cutlets, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one or two for each person. Prussian Soup.—Cut two heads of celery into small pii3ces, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of dripping, two carrots, two turnips, two onions, two locks, and a pound of potatoes; the vegetables must all be cut up small. Fry until they are soft, which vnR bo in about twenty minutes. Put with them half a pound of lean beef or mutton cut into slices, cover the saucepan closely, let the ingredients steam gently for an hour, and be very careful that they do not bum. Pour over them two quarts of water, and add a pint of split peas soaked for twelve hours or more. Bring the liquor to the point of boiling, and skim carc- fullv. Draw it back, and lot it simmer for three hours. Press the vegetables through a co- lander, season the soup with salt and pepper, and, if liked, a little dried mint: boil it up again, and serve very hot. The peas may, if