( 769 ) BOA much dissipation of its nutritive juices as in buking, boiling, and some other processes. "Roasting," says Dr. Kitchiner, "preserves the nutritive part of flesh from dissipation in a greater degree than boiling; and it has been remarked by an observant author (Dr. "Willich) that' one pound of roast meat is, in real nourish- ment, equal to two or three pounds of boiled meat.' It ought, however, to be noticed that the fat of meat treated in this way has under- gone some degree of chemical decomposition from its exposure to heat, and is in consequence more oppressive to delicate stomachs, and gene- rally less salutary than boiled meat." By the process of roasting the fibrine is cor- rugated, the albumen coagulated, the fat lique- fied. As the operation proceeds, the sui-face becomes first brown and then scorched; and the tendinous parts are rendered softer and gluey. Care should always be taken that the meat should not be over-done, nor ought it to be under-dressed; for although in such a state it may contain more nutriment, yet it will be less digestible, on account of the density of its texture. This fact has been satisfactorily proved by the exjieriments of Spallanzani; and Mr. Hunter observes, that " boiled and roasted and even putrid meat is easier of digestion than raw." Animal matter loses more by roasting than by boiling: by the latter process mutton loses one-fifth and beef one-fourth; but by roasting, these meats lose about one-third of their weight. In roasting the loss arises from the melting out of the fat, and the evaporating of the water; but the nutritious matter remains condensed in the cooked soUd, whereas in boil- ing the gelatine is partly ab.stracted. Roast are, therefore, more nutritiouR than boiled moats. Roasting. —To roast meat is to cook it by exposing it to the direct heat of the fire, and the object is to preserve the nutritive qualities and retain the juices, while at the same time tlic joint is sufliciently dressed. The first thing to attend to is the fire. This should be made up some time before, so that when the meat is put down to it it may be bright, strong, and clear. Cinders and dust should be thoroughly cleared out at the bottom, some moderate-sized knobly pieces of coal should be packed closely together at the front, and cinders should be mixed with a little damped coal-dust behind. This will help the fire to retain its heat longer, besides throwing the heat forward. One or two pieces of coal should be put on gently every now and then, so doing away with the necessity of making up the fire again while the meat is before it. The grate should be suf- ficiently large to cover the joint, and leave an inch or two at each side. It should be remem- bered that it is impossible to have roast meat in perfection unless the joint has been hung a proper length of time before being laid down to the fins. Whatever apparatus may be used for suspending the joint before the fire, care should bf! taken that it is kept scru])ulously clean, and that the hook is not pushed through the ])rime juicy pfirts of the meat. A screen should be u.sed if po8sil)Ie, as it tends so much to kec]) in the heiit. Tht; excellence of a roust depends to a very great extent upon the amount of basting it receives. The more it is basted, the better it will be. A little extra dripping may be used at first until the fat melts; but when it has once begun to drop freely it should poured off every now and then, the quantity only which is required for basting being retained in the pan. This is to preserve the dripping itself, as it is much better if not allowed to bum. If the joint be very fat, a piece of paper may be fastened over the fat for the first hour. As to the position of the meat before the fire, '' doctors disagree." According to Baron Liebig, who is decidedly an oracle, the same principle ought to be observed in roasting as in boiling, that is, the surface should be hardened at once by placing the meat near the fire, and when the escape of the juices has thus been stopped, the meat should be drawn back and slowly finished. The almost universal custom is to place it some distance from the fire at first, baste it liberally, and when it is half done, and has been gradually weU-heated throughout, draw it nearer. The advantage of the latter plan is that it does not require so much time as the former. Besides which great judgment is necessary, if Liebig's directions are observed, or the meat -will be either sodden or burnt. The escape of the juices may be prevented by the meat being well basted directly it is put down with wanned dripping. The time required for roasting depends so much ujjon circum- stances that no exact rule can be given. The general rule is a quarter of an hour to the pound, and a quarter of an hour over; but it must lie borne in mind that fat meat takes longer than lean; and thick meat, such as legs an d fillets, longei' than thin, such as loins orbreast.v. White meat, such as pork, and the flesh of young animals, such as veal and lamb, should be well dressed; they need twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. When meat is just killed, it must be roasted longer than when it has been well kept, and it needs less of the fire in summer than in winter. Beef needs more cooking than mutton. However, it may be known that a joint is nearly done enough when the steam draws freely to the fire; also when the flesh yields readily, and offers no resistance when it is pressed with the fingers. If a joint is suificiently cooked without being properly browned, it should be put nearer to the fire for a few minutes. Some cooks flour the joint, but the plan is not recommended, thorough j iaasting will do aU that is wanted. Just before 1 it is served, a little salt may be sprinkled on it. I A very small quantity of gravy should be put into the dish with it. More can be sent to table in a tureen. Roasting, Dr. Kitchiner's Obser- vations on.—The following practicjil remarks are extracted from the " Cook's Oracle" of this famous goKrmct. In some resijccts they may be .slightly out of date, but in others they are for all time, and deserving of the most careful attention. Let the young cook never forgel that cleanliness is the chief cjirdinal ^^I•tue of the kitchen : the first preparation for roasting is to take care that the spit be properly deaneil with sand and water—nothing else. When it