( 1024 ) trsQ Udder, Calf's, for Forcemeat.—Put tho uddor into a saucoijan with aa much broth or water as will cover it. Lot it boil geutly till it is thoroughly done. When cold trim away the upper ptuis, and pound it ta a mortar till it ciin be passed through a sieve. The pulp will then bo ready for putting into French forcemeat. Butter may always be substituted for udder iu making forcemeat. Udder, Fresh Neat's Tongue and.— Those may be roasted together. When ready for serving, put half a pint of gravy into a saucepan, with the juice of a Seville orange, a glassful of claret, two lumps of sugar, and a piece of butter; toss these ingredients over tho tire, and serve with the tongue and udder. Garnish vfith slices of lemon. The udder should be stuck with cloves, and both it and tho tongue should be continually basted. Unfermented Bread.—Fermented bread is sometimes considered imwholesome. Those who are of this opinion may make their bread as follows:—Mix one ounce of bicarbonate of soda with eight pounds of flour. Stir one ounce of hydrochloric acid with four pints of warm water. Stir the liquor into the flour briskly, and with a wooden spoon, till the in- gredients are thoroughly blended; divide the dough into loaves, and bake these immediately in a brisk oven. It will need to bake as long as bread usually does. Unground Corn Soup (a German re- cipe).—Take a breakfast-cuptul of wheat, and put it into a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir till the butter is melted. Add water, and let all simmer till the com is quite soft. Season with salt and pepper, adding parsley, chervil, or any other herb, flnely minced. Place yolks of eggs in the tureen, grate in a little nutmeg, and pour in the boiling soup. United States Pudding.—Boil three- quarters of a pint of new milk with thi-ee ounces of fresh butter and half a tea-cupful of sugar. Stir in six oimces of Oswego, pour the pudding into a bowl, and beat it briskly for some minutes. When it is almost cold, mix with it first the yolks, and afterwards the weU- whisked whites of four eggs. Butter a pudding- basin, and fiU it with alternate layers of the corn-flour paste thus prepared and Jam, and let paste constitute the uppermost and undermost layers. Lay a round of oiled paper on the top of the pudding, and steam it over fast-boiling water tiU done enough. If pref ei-red, the pudding may be baked in a brisk oven, instead of being steamed. Serve with wine or brandy sauce in a tureen. Time to steam the pudding, one hour ; to bake it, three-quarters of an hour. Universal Store Sauces for Flavour- ing Gravies, &C.—Put two table-spoonfuls of port into a bottle with the same quantity of lemon pickle, chilli vinegar, mushroom and walnut pickle, and one table-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Shake the mixture, and it will be ready for use. If preferred, shallot vinegar may be used instead of lemon pickle. Another excellent store sauce for flavouring gravies may be made as follows: — Puc half a pint of ketchup into a bottle with a table-spoonful of port, a tea-spoonful of shallot vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of powdered allspice, one ounce of salt, and a little pepper and cayenne. Put the bottle in a warm place for some hours ; keep it for a week, then strain and bottle for use. University Pork Sausages. —To a couple of pounds of lean pork, young, white, and delicate, put three quarters of a pound of mmced beef suet—the pork must first be chopped very fine. Add three dessert-spoon- fuls of bread which has been dipped in port wine, dried, and grated fine. Work it together with the yolks of three eggs smoothly beaten; season with pepper and salt and dried sage—a very little cayenne may be introduced, and a vert/ small piece of garlic. Work the whole well together in a mortar until it forms a paste; it may then be put into wide skins, or pressed down into jars for future use. It is cut into square pieces, dredged with flour, fried in fresh butter, and sent to table on a toast as a breakfast dish. Upton Pudding. — Butter a pie-dish thickly, and put into it a tea-cupful of large- grained sago. Add two table-spoonfuls of sugar and a little grated lemon or nutmeg. Nearly fill the dish with boiling water (milk is better if it is to be had). Pare and core two large apples, and slice them into the pudding ; place a lump of butter upon it, and bake in a gentle oven. This pudding may be eaten cold or hot. Time to bake the pudding, about two hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Usquebach, Irish.—This was origi- nally a liqueur—a compound spirit made with spices. Among other recipes for its manufac- ture is the following:—Take of nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon each two ounces; of the seeds of anise, caraway, and coriander, each four ounces; sliced liquorice, half a pound. Bruise the seeds and spices, and put them, together with the Liquorice, into a still with eleven gallons of proof spirits and two gallons of water. Distil with a pretty fresh fire till the " faints " begin to rise. As soon as the liquor comes, over, fix some saffron to the end of the worm, that the liqueur may pass through it and extract its tincture. Soften the whole with sugar. Usquebach, Irish (another way).—Di- gest the following ingredients for a fortnight in five gallons of French brandy—nutmegs, cassia, cinnamon, angeHca-root, hay-satfron, rhubarb, of each one ovmce; mace, cloves, lesser cardamom-seeds, of each two drachms; liquorice-root, three ounces; coriander-seeds, aniseed, turmeric-root, caraway-seeds, of each one ounce. Usquebach (Meg Dod's recipe).—To two quarts of the best brandy, or wliisky without a smoky or any peculiar flavour, put a pound of stoned raisins, half an ounce of nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quan- tity of cardamoms, all bruised in a mortar; the riiid of a Seville orange rubbed off on lumps of sugai-, a little tincture of safEron, and half i! pound of brown sugar-rundy. Shake the