SPA ( 912 ) SPE of each cut into small pieces. Pour upon the meat as much stock or water as will bai-uly cover its surface, luid boil it until it becomes thick like gum. Check the heat of the tiro a little, and sinmier the preparation until it is brightly coloured, taking care that it does not bum. Add gradually a pint of stock or water, and put into the saucepan with the liquor a sliced uirrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, half a bay-loaf, an onion stuck with two cloves, two shallots, a quarter of a blade of mace, and four or five peppercorns. Simmer the sauce for about an hour, or till it is strong and agreeably flavoured, strain it, and let it stand till cold. When wanted, remove the cake of fat from the top, heat the sauce, thicken with a spoonful of brown thickening, and simmer till it is of the consistency of cream. Remove the fat as it is thrown up, add a glassful of sherry or madeira, and serve. Time, altogether, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. per pint. Spanish Sauce with Game—This is the same as Spanish Sauce (M. Ude's way), except that in this are introduced the loins and trimmings of either young or old partridges, pheasants, rabbits, &c., that this sauce may taste of game. Put them to sweat. Remem- ber that such sauces, if kept too long on the fire, lose their savour and the game flavour. This method may be thus shortened :—Prepare a small consomme of game by skinning a couple or more of pai-tridges ; fillet them, and take the back, legs, and bones, and put them into a stowpan with a little broth to sweat gently in the stove for one hour; when done, reduce it to glaze; then, by putting a small bit of that glaze in either sauce, it will save time an.d expense, and will answer much better to give it the taste of game. Spanish Sausages, or Chorissas.— Take equal weights of fat and lean pork taken from the prime parts of the animal; mince this finely, and season strongly with garlic and cayenne. Pour over it as much dry sherry as will cover it, and let it stand in a cool place for three or four days till it has absorbed the liquor. Put the meat into large skins, and moisten with the liquor that remains. Tie the sausages in links, and hang them in a cool, dry place. They will keep for six or eight months. When wanted, drop the sausages into hot water, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Serve them with rice boiled as for cuiTy. Time to boil the sausages, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. per poimd. Spanish Soup.—Take a piece of the shin of beef weighing about four pounds, and one pound of the knuckle of ham. Break the bones into small pieces with a cleaver, and tie the meat with string to keep it in shape. Put it into a large pot, and pour over it a gallon of cold water. Bring the liquor gently to the point of boiling, remove the scum carefully, and, before it fully boils, throw half a tea-spoonful of coLl water into it once or twice, to assist the scuin in rising. Add a little pepper, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer gently and steadily for two hours and a half. Blanch a table-spoonful of rice, throw it into the soup, and boil it an hour longer. Half an hour before the soup is to be served, put into it a pmt of Brussels sjirouts and an onion thinly shced. If preferred, other vegetables may be added to or substituted for the sprouts. They nmst bo bknched and stewed in the soup long enough to cook them, and no longer. Remove the bones from the soup, take up the meat, put it on a dish, garnish with the sprouts, and serve very hot. Send the soup to table in a tureen. ]f the ham has not wuuie the broth sufiiciently salt, a little mon; salt should be added. Time, three hours" and a half from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 4s. Gd. Sufiicient for seven or eight persons. Spanish Soup (another way).—Butter a large stewpan thic-kly; place in it, in an even layer, two large onions cut in slices, four ounces of lean ham cut into dice, and two pounds of freshly-killed juicy beef cut into pieces two inches square. Add any bones and trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand, or if an old pheasant, partridge, or hen can be pro- cured at a small expense, truss it for boiling, brown it in a saucepan with a httle butter, and lay it upon the meat. Pour over these ingredients as much stock as will barely cover them, and boil quickly till it begins to thicken and look like gum. Slacken the heat of the fire, and let the saucepan renuiin on it till this gum has become a bright-brown colour; pour upon it two quarts of stock or water, and add a large carrot, a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, a bay-leaf, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, half a blade of mace, and two cloves. Let the liquor boU, skim carefully, and simmer gently till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and when cold remove the fat from the surface. Prepare about a pint and a half of mixed vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, celery, and Spanish peas. Let these be cut into strips or shapes of an equal size, and partially boU them in plain water. Boil the soup, throw the vegetables into it, and let them remain until done enough. About twenty minutes before the soup is to be served, put into it some small pork sausages, and when these are done enough, serve them with the vegetables in the tureen with the soup. Time, two hours to simmer the stock. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per piut. Spatzen (sparrows or batter flakes; a German recipe).—Stir flour into cold water and milk, with a little salt, to make a thick batter; beat it well with a wooden spoon. Drop little flakes or buttons into boihng water. This is easiest done by putting some of the batter on a trencher or flat plate, and flaking it quickly off into the pot with a knife dipped con- stantly in the water. Boil them five minutes; they will swim on the top when done. Strain and dish them. Have ready a piece of butter melted in a stewpan, and a handful of crumbs in it, crisped brown. Pour this over the spatzen, and serve while they are light and hot. A piece of butter may be stirred in as they are dished. If preferred richer, use an egg or two, and milk alone for the batter. Speaker's Pudding.—Butter a plan mould thickly, dredge flom- upon it, and iirran^