TIM TIN ( 970 ) urpose. Have ready some Binall buttered cups, eat the rice well, press it into tlio cups wliile it is still warm, iiud let it reuuiia in thorn until quite cold. Boil the strained juice of a large fresh lemon witli a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar to a clear syrup, and slice into this six apples peeled and cored. Let them simmer gently imtil reduced to pulp, take them off the lire for a minute or two, and stir gradually into them the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat them over the lire for two minutes, then let them cool. Turn the rice out of the moulds. If it is found to bo at all difficult to do this, set the cups in hot water for a minute or two, again reverse them on a baking-tin, and with the point of a sharp knife carefully scoop out a hollow ill the centre of each. Fill this with the pre- pared apples, and brush the timbalcs all over with the white of egg whisked to a froth and mixed with powdered and sifted sugar. Pour as much of this icing as is left upon the fruit, and bake the timbales in a well-heated oven. Serve very hot. Time to bake the timbales, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. each. SuflScient for a small dish. Timbales, SmaU (for aU sorts of Entrees). —Butter eighteen dariole-monlds thoroughly, spread some trimmings of puff paste on the dresser, cut with a cutter a round of paste large enough to fill the mould, have a bit of paste of the same form as the inside of the mould, but not so large; put the round piece over the latter, let it faU all round, and then introduce this into the mould. Press equally everywhere with your finger to keep the paste the same thickness, cut off all the paste that is above the rim, fill the mould with trimmings of paste, and put on a false cover to prevent the border of the paste from taking a bad colour. A dozen is always sufficient, except when the dishes are very large. Bake them of a good colour; when done, empty all the inside, and garnish with whatever you may think proper. For pates au Jus (with, gravy), fill the inside with godiveau, and bake them with false covers. "When done, take off the cover, and open them with a knife to let in a spoonful of Espagnole sauce, then cover them with small covers made of puff paste that you have been particular to make of the proper size and a good colour, and serve up very hot. It is almost needless to say that the same paste and the same pre- paration will serve for a dozen different sorts, such as salpicon, soft roe of mackerel, lobster, flweetbrcad, fat liver and truffles, soft roc of cod, turbot, sole, &c. Timbales, Small (for Fruit, Jelly, or Cream).—Weigh tliree large fresh eggs, and then take their weight in flour and half their weight in powdered sugar. Break the eggs, and separate the yolks and the whites. Beat the yolks in a basin, and add to them first the sugar and afterwards the flour. When they are thoroughly mixed, and just before the timbales are to be baked, add the woU-whisked whites of the eggs, and a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Drop the paste in small lumps upon a buttered balcing-tin, and hollow these in the centre like a cup. Bake them in a slow oven, and when they are done enough, trim tlu'in to a neat shape. Kocj) them in a dr\-, warm place until wanted; and when they are to bo served fill them with fruit, jelly, or flavoured cream. Time to bake, half au hour. Vro)>uhh cost, without the contents, 2d. each. Sufficient for a small dish. Tinned Meats, Australian.—'J'he fol- lowmg original n.'cipos (one hundred in num- ber) are the result of several years' exiierience in the use of Australian meats. Against these considerable prejudice exists, owing, to a great extent, to the fact that few know how to cook them properly. If the recipes here given, how- ever, are followed, it will be found easy, even for a cook of moderate abilities, to pr(;pare from Australian meats a succession of tasty as w<-ll as digestible and nourishing dishes. (Jn p. 977 the names of the various recipes will be found in alphabetical order, so that any particular one may be referred to with ease. 1. Soup with Fokcemeat Balls. Boil half a pound of the lean of Australian mutton or beef in two quarts of water for half an hour with two ounces of chopped carrots, one ounce of chopped onions, a little celery, a blade of mace, using pepper and salt to season. Have ready forcemeat balls made of equal ])arts of finely-chopped meat, bacon, bread- crumbs, flour, and an egg to bind the mixture together. EoU into balls an inch in diameter, fry in a little Australian fat; strain the soup; brown it whilst at boiling point; place the balls in a tureen, and pour the soup on them. 2. Beef Tea. Turn out a tin of Australian beef. Take a tea-cupful of the clear jelly without a particle of fat, melt in the oven, season with pepper and salt, and brown with a few drops of colouring. Toast a thin sUce of bread crisply, cut into dice, and serve in the tin or on a small plate. 3. Mutton Bhoth. Take the required quantity of jelly from a shape of mutton, add a pint of boiling water, season with pepper and salt; thicken with one tea-spoonful of corn-flour, add a pinch of nut- meg, and serve with dried toast. 4. Soup, Julienne. Proceed as for Soup with Forcemeat Balls {see No. 1), but instead of forcemeat balls prepare carrots, turnips, and parsnips, by scraping, peel- ing, and washing them; cut them in thin slices, and again into thin strips; boU until tender in the soup, which must first be strained; brown, and thicken with a table-spoonful of corn-flom-. In summer, any kind of vegetable may be added —lettuce or French beans, <S:c. 5. Soup, Pea. Prepare the stock as for Soup with Forcemeat Balls {see No. 1), and thicken with a quarter of a pound of S>nnington's Prepared Pea Powder. Cut toasted bread into dice, fry crisply in Aus- tralian fat, place in the tureen, and pour the soup on it. 6. Irish Stew. Boil six onions sliced in a quart of water with six large potatoes peeled and cut in lialf: pepper and salt pretty freely, men boiled tender, but not broken, thicken the gravy with