VEG ( 1070 ) VEG Vegetable Marrows, Boiled.—Peoltho miirrows, frue them from sood, cut thorn iuto fiix or fight pieces, and put them into boiling water ; let them boil gently till tender. Lift them up carefully with a slice, put them on toast, pour melted butter or white sauce over them, and serve. No. 2. Put the marrow whole and with- out skinning it into boiling water. Lot it boil until tender. Take it up, halve, pare, and seed it, lay the halves on toast, with the hollow paii; uppermost, and fill tliom with rich melted butter. No. 3. Pare and seed the marrows, divide them into quarters, and the quarters into halves. Trim tliom neatly. Hub the inside of a saucepan with butter. Lay the pieces of marrow in it, and sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and pounded sugar. Pour upon them half a pint of veal stock, and boil gently tiU tender. Lift them upon a dish; add to the gravy the juice of half a lemon and a little piece of butter; pour it over the marrow, and serve. If liked, the marrows may be stewed in milk instead of gravy, and they may be seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Time to boil: ten to twenty minutes, if boiled in slices; if boiled whole, longer, according to size. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. each. Vegetable Marrows, Boiled (another ■way).—Peel the marrows, halve, and if very large quarter them, remove the seeds, and put them into boiling water to simmer gently imtU tender. Take them up with a slice, drain them, and serve upon toast. Send melted butter to table with them in a tureen, or, failing this, a little fresh butter. Time: young marrows, fifteen to twenty minutes; old marrows, three- quarters of an hour. ProlDable cost, 2d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, a good-sized marrow for three or four persons. Vegetable Marrows, Pried. — Boil the maiTows in the ordinarj' way till they are tender but quite firm. Let them get cold, and • cut them into slices. Brush them over with egg, dip in finely-grated bread-crumbs, and fry till they are lightly browned. Serve very hot. The remains of dressed marrow may be served in this way. Vegetable Marrows Marinaded and Stewed.—Take three good-sized mar- rows; pare, seed, and quarter them, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, and pour upon them a quarter of a pint of vinegar and two table-spoonfuls of lucca oil. Let them lie in this marinade for half an hour. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, cover with good brown gravy, and stew them gently until tender. Lift them up carefully with a slice, place them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Time to stow the marrows, about twenty minutes. Vegetable Marrows, Mashed.—Boil two good-.sizcd vegetable marrows in water till tender {see Vegetable Marrows Boiled). Take them up, drain them, turn them into a bowl, and mash them with a wooden spoon. Heat them in a saucepan with a piece of melted butter the size of a walnut and a little pepper and salt. Marrows dressed thus are excellent served piled high in the centre of a dish of cutlets. Vegetable Mullagatawny {nee Mulla- gatuwny. Vegetable;). Vegetable Patties.—Prepare a maod- doino of vegetables {nce Vegetables, ]Macc-doino of); moisten these with nicely-flnvoured white sauce, and put a small quantity into ready baked patty-cases {sec Patties, Preparation of) Servo on a neatly-folded najtkin. Vegetable Pie.—Scald some WindBor beans. Cut into small neat pieces some young carrots, tumijjs, artichoke bottoms, lettuces, mushrooms, celery, and parsley, with green peas. Onions and a small quantity of spinach may be added if liked, but any of these may be omitted. The proportions should be re- gulated by taste and convenience. Partially stew the vegetables in gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Trim the edges of a dish with pastry, put in the vegetables, pour the gravy over them, and place the cover on the top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven.- If a maigre dish is wanted, cream, or milk slightly thickened with flour and butter, may be used instead of gravy. Vegetable Pudding, Economical and Good.—Shred six ounces of good beef suet very finely. Mix with it half a pound of the inside of baked potatoes, and add half a pound of the red part of carrots finely scraped, two ounces of candied peel finely shred, four table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a little salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and moisten with one weU-beaten egg. Tie the pudding in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly till done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with sweet sauce, to which a little brandy may be added if liked. Time to boU the pudding, two and a half hours. Vegetable Bagoiit.—Take the remains of cold dressed vegetables of various kinds. Cut them into small pieces, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and moisten them with gravy. Put them into a buttered sauce- pan, and stir briskly over the fire with a wooden spoon till they are quite hot. Serve in a vegetable dish. Time, about ten minutes to heat the vegetables. Vegetable Salad, Summer {see Sum- mer Vegetable Salad). Vegetable Salads.—The remains of dressed vegetables of almost every kind may be advantageously served as a salad. The vege- tables should be sliced or minced, according to their nature, seasoned with popper and salt, and worked lightly together with oil and vme- gar, in the proportion of two table-spoonfuls of the former to one of the latter. Vegetable salads should be prepared an hour or two before they are wanted, so that the vcgotablos may become thoroughly impregnated with the sauce. By way of variety, cold meat or fish may be mtro- duced; and hard-boiled eggs, sliced beetroot, &c., may be used for garnish. Vegetable Soup.—Take a quart of old green peas, and boil them in a gallon of soft