TIN TIN ( 973 ) moro than half done:—Half a pound of mincod bouf, half a pound of luinced liani, two hard- boiled eggs cut up small, and half a pound of any kind of game meat or rabbit cut lino. Season highly ; stir over tlio fire with a gill of good cream and one ounce of butter till nearly cooked; then add a little lemon-j uico and nutmeg and a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Bake covered with greased paper till halJ- done. 82. Rice (Turkish Fashion). Boil the rice as in recipe No. 3G. Fry the rice with butter, cayenne, and saffron powder ; season with salt, and throw in a handful of cleansed Smyrna raisins. Put this rice as a border to the cui-ry prepared as in No. 8. 83. EiCK (Polish Fashion). Cut an onion into very thin slices, and fry in a. pan with butter, then add two ounces of cooked ham cut in shreds and si.K ounces of Austrahan meat cut in dice. Take the rice as prepared in No. 36, season with a pinch of jcayenne pepper and a table-spoonful of grated cheese. Stir all together lightly over the fire, and serve quite hot. 84. EiCE (llilanese Fashion). Fry the rice {see No. 36) in a pan with butter, season with grated cheese ; add six ounces of Australian meat cut in dice, half a pint of boiled and picked shrimps (lobster or crab will do), season, and serve hot with a tea-spoonful of anchovy stirred in. 85. Rice (Spanish Fashion). Fry the rice {see No. 36) till of a golden colour in oil, using only just enough to fry it; then add either a large table-spoonful of prepared tomato sauce or two large ripe red tomatoes squeezed free from seeds and watery juice through a wire sieve. Season with Spanish sauce, pepper, and grated cheese. Pile up lightly in a hot dish, and garnish round with curry No. 8. 86. FiiA>-GiPANE OF Mutton*. Steam some good mealy potatoes, skin them, mash them till smooth, put them into a sauce- pan with three eggs. Stir all together till cool enough to make them up with the hand. Take the marrow from a beef-bone, cut it up as suet, take a quarter of a pound of mutton cut into tiny dice, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, season it well, and pour in two table-spoonfuls of cream, mix well together; flour, the hands, and roll a small bit of the frangipane into a ball, hollow it with the flat part of a spoon, fill it with the mince, close it up, flour well, and when you have enough for a small dish fry them till light brown, or bake in quick oven. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 87. Cakes of Meat. Prepare some mince ; to each table-spoonful of mince add one tea-spoonful of bread-crumbs, enough egg to bind them, a little finely-chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Take a bit of the mince in floured hands, roll it in a ball, then flatten it into a cake, dip in egg and seasoned hread-cnimbs, and bake in a quick oven. Serve with a little good gravy and fried bacon in strips. 88. Gateau de Bceuf. Take two pounds at least of beef, one of Lam, mince them up fine, and season well. Tak(; aa ox foot, and boil till the foot separates. Take it out, and cut ofi: all the meat, and mince and season it. Lay it in a round tin that has been wetted -with vinegar, boil up the liquor, and ]x»ur it over till quite full and well soaked into the meat. When cold torn out, and it will eat like brawn. 89. Madkas Curky.' Take two large onions, and slice and fry them. Fry the meat you mean to curry, cut into small dice, in the same pan, first taking out the onions; stir into it a pint of good gravy well seasoned, two table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and a little salt; add it to the meat, and stew gently twenty minutes. When nearly done add the juice of a lemon, and serve up with boiled rice No. 36. 90. Vinaoaret of Beef. Cut small thin slices of boiled beef, put them in a salad-bowl with sliced beetroot, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and cold kidney potatoes; season with pepper and salt, thi-ee table-spoon- fuls of salad oil, two of vinegar, chopped shallot and j^arslej'; mix and pour over. Serve for lunch or made-up dinner. 91. Gateau Australien. Take a pie-dish, and butter it; cut hard- boiled eggs in shces, lay them round the sides of the dish and at the bottom. Then put slices of beef and mutton, and ham and bacon, and spread sliced pickles over each layer, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pour over it some good rich -well-seasoned gravy in which one ounce of gelatine has been dissolved ; let it stand tiU cold, turn out, and garnish with parsley. 92. TiMBALE DE MaCARONI. Boil some macaroni in water and one ounce of butter; when it has boiled a few minutes strain off the water, and return it to the stew- pan with half a pint of stock ; boil slowly on a stove till tender. Then add to it some diced mutton well seasoned, and a little grated cheese; make all hot together, then set to cool. Butter a mould, well sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and line with common puff paste ; put in the meat and macaroni quite cold, cover with paste, and bake in a rather slow oven. "WTien done, turn it out of the mould, cut off the top, and pour white sauce over and in the dish. 93. Carrole de Ris. Boil the rice {see No. 3G), put it into a pan -with a good slice of ham and an onion, and stew it over a gentle fire till tender. Have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon. Mix the yolks of thi-ee eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon with It about half an inch thick. Put into it a ragout of either beef or mutton or Australian rabbit. Fill up the mould, and cover close with rice. Bake it in the oven an hour, turn it on to a dish, and send it to table with gravy or curry sauce. 94. Sliced Beef with Matonnaisb Savcb. Lay trimly-cut slices of beef on a meat-dish with a little very finely-scraped horseradish here and there over it.' Spread over it thin