(918 ) SPO SPI prepared in all the wine countries of Europe, but particularly in l*Vauco, where, however, the localitiua of the best Frouclx bruiuly are ex- tromolj' limited. The j,Tapo8 most proper for wines are not the best suited for brandy. The general mode of preparing brandy is oxtromiily simple, being nothing more tlian a well-regu- lated distillation of wine in suitable vessels. At the commencement of the vintage, the manufacturers collect all the grapes tliat are not fit for good-wine, ferment their juices, and distil them for brandy ; they also use for this pui-pose all wines that have failed in the making —although, if they have become at all acid, the brandy is tainted. The spu-it next in importance is Gin. "This word is a corruption of Geneva, as that is of the French word genievre, or juniper. Gin is also called Hollands. Geneva, however, is not gin, but a kind of liquor made from the berries of the juniper, which contain as much as thirty- four per cent, of sugar, and may be easily fer- mented. Gin was first made in Holland, and was brought into this country as Hollands gin. It is distilled from com malt, and various sub- stances are added to it to give it flavour. The most common substances of this kind are juni- per berries, but a variety of substances are added to suit the taste of the customer, so that no two gins are alike. In this comitry every gin distiller uses his own ingredients, whilst the retailer of gin has also his particular recipes for rendering his gin profitable or palatable, or both. Sometimes injurious substances are added to gin to make it taste strong, as sul- phuric acid and sulphate of zinc; these, how- ever, are adulterations. The substances used for flavouring gin are numerous enough. Thus we find enumerated bitter almonds, turpentine, creosote, lemon, cardamoms, caraways, • cassia, garlic, Canada balsam, horseradish, cayenne pepper, and grains of paradise. None of these things are poisonous, and probably all of them assist in determining the action of the alcohol of the gin as a diuretic. Gin does not usually contain so much alcohol as brandy—not more than eight ounces to the pint being found i a the best gins. Sugar is added by many distillers, but others do not add this ingredient. Gin, as it is retailed, always contains sugar, and not frequently more than four ounces of alcohol to the pint. It is consequently a weaker spirit generally than brandy, and so far is perhaps less injurious when taken raw. The practice, how- ever, of taking any kind of raw spirits is a very hazardous proceeding, and cannot be habitually indulged in without danger."—Dr. Lankester. Whisky is a spirit produced by :?i8tillation from grain, roots, and other materials. The best is obtained from barley after it has been malted, though that which goes imdor the name of raw grain whisky, made from wheat, oats, rye, Indian com, rice, &c., after being kept for two or three years, almost as good. Whisky is also manufactured from potatoes, beetroot, beans, molaa.so.s, sugar, &o.,malt b(!ing sometimes added to a small extent._ Tliis spnit used to be made almost solely in Scotland, Ireland, and the United States; but distilleries now, however, are nnmerouH in England, France, Germany, Holland, and veden. The foreign spirit iB, as a rule, coarse in quality, and only suited for fortifying wines. Wliiiiky has frequently a slight smoky flavour, supposed to be owing to the way in which it is prepared. The whisky ordinarily sold in Engbind is more free from ilavouring ingredients than any other form of distilled spirit. " Rum," says Dr. Lankester, in his valuable work " On Food," " is less generally consumed in England than the other spirit; but from the fact of its being supplied by the Government to our soldiers and sailors, large quantities are entered for consumption in Great Britain. It is principally made in the West Indies, and our supplies are almost wholly drawn from Janiaica, where it is manufactured from the fermented scum of the sugar boilers and molasses. A fla- vour is often given to it by the addition of slices of pine-apple. It is usually sold much above proof, so that a pint of rum will con- tain fifteen ounces of alcohol. It kas a peculiai- odour, which is due to butyric ether. Like brandy, it improves by keeping, and probably develops the same class of bouquets as wine. The action of the alcohol of rum is of course the same as that of other fermented liquors; but Dr. Edward Smith has pointed out a curious fact in its action on the system, and that is, that it increases the quantity of carbonic acid thrown out from the limgs. This may be due to the butyric ether. Whether this suggestion be correct or not, it is a curious fact, resulting from Dr. Smith's experiments, that whilst other alcoholic drinks decrease the expiration of car- bonic acid, rum sho\ild increase it." Spit, Cradle {see Cradle Spit). Sponge Biscuits.—Break four fresh eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate bowls. Take out the specks, beat the yolks thoroughly, and add gradually, beating the mixture briskly, half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of orange- flower water, a quarter of a pound of flour, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth. Make some biscuit tins hot. Grease them with butter, and while hot sift powdered sugar over them. Three-parts fill them with the batter, and sprinkle sugar over them before putting them into the oven, which must be very brisk. \yTien done enough turn them out of the tins, and lay them on a sieve. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Sponge Cake (a German recipe).—Take half a pound of sifted sugar and the yolks of ten eggs; stir these ingredients for a quarter of an hour. Add six ounces of butter beaten to a cream, half a pound of fine flour, and the grated peel of a lemon and its juice. When these are thoroughly stirred in, add the whites of the ten eggs whipped to a snow. Stir all well together. Then take one or two moulds and butler them. Fill the moulds three-parts full, strew thm shces of ahnonds and some coarsely-powdered sugar on the top, and bake the cakes m a mode- rate oven. SDOnee Cake (another way).—Boil three quarters of a pound of :.lie finest loaf sugar pounded in a quarter or a pint of water