( 824 ) SAN potatoes, and pepper and salt to tasto, and lot the whole sinunor gently for two lioura ; if more potatoes aro required, not to bo done so mucli, put thorn in half an hour boforo serving. It is an improvement to put in a little mush- room ketehup or two dozen oysters. Sand Cake.—Take half a pound of butter and stir it to a cream, then add the yolks of twelve eggs and half a lemon-peel grated. Add to this preparation by degrees a quarter of a pound of fine Hour, a quarter of a pound of potato-flour, and half a pound of sifted sugar. When these ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated add the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Stir well, and bake in a moderate oven. The sand cake will be made consider- ably richer by adding half a wine-glassful of rum or brandy and the whole of the grated lemon-peel. Sand Cake (another way).—Take half a pound of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of potiito-flour, half a pound of warmed butter, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, six eggs, and the rind and juice of a lemon. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cake is three-parts done, draw it gently to the mouth of the oven, and strew the following quickly over it:—Two or three ounces of almonds cut small and mixed with one tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon and two ounces of powdered sugar. Place the cake back in the oven to finish baking, taking care that the almonds on the top do not become too brown. Sand Cake with Marmalade (a Ger- man recipe).—Take one pound of butter, half a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, the grated peel of a lemon, three-quarters of a pound of flour, four table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, and seven eggs. Work these ingre- dients into a paste, roU out, and divide into three round cakes. Between each cake place a layer of any sort of marmalade at hand, and bake slowly; when half baked, pour an icing over the whole, and finish baking. Sandwiches.—Sandwiches, when properly prepared, constitute a convenient, elegant, and palatable dish for suppers or luncheons, but they have fallen into bad repute on account of the careless manner in which they are often made. They are composed of different articles introduced between two thin slices of buttered bread. Amongst those commonly used may be mentioned—dressed chicken, game, beef, veal and ham, tongue, or mutton, potted meats, fish pastes of various kinds, hard-boiled eggs, German and other sausages, forcemeats, pounded cheese, stewed fruits, jellies, &c. Sometimes sliced pickles are sprinkled over the meat, and a suitable seasoning should always be added. Whatever the materials used, it is necessary, in order to make sandwiches properly, that two or three rules be observed :—Ist, what- ever meat, &c., is used, let it be well dressed, freed from skin, gristle, and all unpalatable portions, and it should be cut up into mouthfuls. The last is a most important point, and one not often attended to. 2nd, pare the crust from a stale loaf of bread, cut it into neat slices an eighth of an inoli in thickness, and butter these evenly and thinly with fresli butter. A loaf baked in a tin for the purpose, and called a sandwich loaf, may bo ordered from the baker when it is known two days beforehand that the sandwiches will be wanted, ard. Season the cut-up meat with mustard, salt, pepper, or whatever is required, and lay it between two shces of buttered bread, press it with the hand to make the ingredients adhere, and cut the sandwiches into squares with a sharp knife. To dish them, fold a napkin neatly, and lay it on a dish; put the sandwiches in circles upon it, one lapping half over the other, and garnish with parsley. If not wanted immediately, lay a napkin wrung out of cold water upon the sandwiches to keep them moist. Sandwiches ought, however, to be served when freshly made. Recipes for the following sandwiches will be found under their respective headings :— Aberdeen Hunter's Adelaide Irish American Italian Cheese Jam Chicken and Ham Lemon Egg Liebio's Fish Pastry Ham Potato In former days the term sandwich was applied exclusively to bread with thin slices of ham, tongue, or beef, but of late a great variety of materials have been used. A cele- brated Glasgow confectioner has the credit of making no fewer than a hundred different kinds of sandwiches. Sandwiches in Large Quantities.— "In making a large quantity," says M. Soyer, " a stale quartern loaf should be taken and trimmed free from all crust, and cut into slices the eighth of an inch in thickness, slightly buttered, and then thin slices of meat, nicely trimmed, may be laid on, and covered with another slice of bread, and then cut into eight parts. Should they be cut some time before they are wanted, they ought to be put one over the other, as they thus keep moist; a little mustard and salt may be added to the meat if preferred. Some thin slices of gherkin may be added to the meat." Sandwiches, Superior (for suppers and luncheons).—Cut the flesh of dressed fowl, game, or sheU-fish, into neat pieces. Laj' these upon thin slices of toast, and cover them with suitable sauce made very thick so as to adhere. Mayonnaise sauce may be used for poultrj' and fish, and salmis sauce is suitable for game. Garnish the surface of the sandwiches with white of egg chopped^ small, finely- shred tarragon leaves, and minced pickle or truffle. Dish the sandwiches in a circle, pile small salad or lettuces finely shred in the centre, and place a border of clear aspic jelly cut into dice round the dish. Or mince cold game finely, and stir the mince into a little stiff salmis sauce. Minced mushroom, truflle, or tongue ma^ be added if liked. Set the prepara- tion upon "ice, and when it is stiff put a layer