8AL ( 802 ) SAL done, and if it is uot iinincdiatoly wanted lay ii on a lish-drainer, and covor witli hut clotlis. If it is uUowud to lomain iu the water after it is done enouf,'h tlie ilavour will be spoilt; unless it is thorou{,'hly done, it will bo uneatable. Jn order to aaeurtain wlu^tlior it is done enouf,'h, press tlie llesh liyhtly with the linger, and if it loaves the bono easily it is done. (Sorvo on a neatly-folded najjkin, garnish with lemon and parsley, horseradish and fennel, or fennel and red currants, and send shrimp, lobster, parshjy, anchovy, or Dutch sauce to table with it. A dish of sliced cucumbor is usually served with boiled salmon. If ioDster sauce is chosen, the salmon should bo garnished with the coral. Time: experience alone can teach a cook how long to boil fish, as it varies so much in size and thickness ; as a general rule, eight minutes per pound may be allowed for thick salmon, six uiinutes per pound for thin salmon. Pro- bable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when in full season. Sufficient, one pound and a quarter for three persons. Salmon, Boiled (another way).—Put on a fish-kettle with spring water enough to well cover the salmon you are going to di-ess, or the salmon will neither look nor taste well (boil the liver in a separate saucepan). When the water boils, put in a handful of salt, take off the scima as soon as it rises, lay the fish in gently, draw it back at once, and keep it below boiling point till done. The time required will depend upon the thickness of the piece. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. Salmon, Boiled (a la Marechal).—When the fish is cleaned, strew salt on both sides of it; two hours after, perfectly wash, drain, and lay it upon a fish-strainer well buttered ; put it into the kettle with a good and well-seasoned Mirepoix, moistened with three bottles of cham- pagne. Place it over a quick fire, and when it boils throw the liquor well upon the fish; cover, and put it into a slow oven to simmer. Every twenty minutes see that the boiling is slow and regular, and mask the fish with the Mirepoix; give it an hour and a half's boiling; then take it up, cover it wiLh butter made lukewarm and mixed ^vith eight yolks of eggs passed through a tamis. Strew bread-crumbs mixed with one- fourth of their quantity of Parmesan cheese grated, pressing them on the salmon with the blade of a knife, and scattering drops of butter melted upon them, and give it a fine colour in the oven. Dish without disarranging its surface, and surround it with a Ragout a la Financier with a part of the same served in a sauce- boat. Salmon, Boiled, Plain (M. Soyer's way).—I prefer always dressing this fish in slices from an inch to two inches in thickness, boiling it in plenty of salt and water about twenty minutes; the whole fish may be boiled, or the head and shoulders of a large fish, but they require longer boiling. Salmon eats firmer by not Ijeing put into tho water until boiling. Dress the fish upon a napkin, and serve with lobster sauce, shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter in a boat with fresh sprigs of parsley boiled a few minutes in it. A salmon weighing about ton jpouiids will requiie an hour's gentle boiling; a head and shoulders weighing six pounds half an hour. Salmon, Boiled, To Carve.—For an ordmary-Bized fish, cut through tho fish in the direction of k to u, and then make cross-cuts as shown in tho drnx-tions of c and n, the former cut taking the thick, and the Ldter the thin part of the fish, a poi-tion of which should be given to each person. If the fish is large, it would bo necessary to make one or more cuts parallel with a and n. BOILED SALMON. Salmon Bone, Broiled.—If when a salmon is served the flesh is not taken too closely from the bone, the latter may be cut into pieces three or four inches long, and, lightly broiled over a clear fire, will make a savoury morsel for breakfast. Salt and cayenne t)epper should be strewn over it before it is broiled. Salmon^ Braized.—Take a thick sKce of salmon, weighing a little more than three pounds, wash it in salted water, and dry it in a cloth. Fold it in oiled paper, place it on a drainer over a saucepan of fast-boUing water, and let it steam until done enough. Drain it, and pour over it a sauce prepared as follows :— Bruise a table-spoonful of capers, and stir them into half a pint of good melted butter. Add a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, two tea-spoonfuls of soy, and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer the sauce gently for three or four minutes, add a glassful of sherry, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice, and serve. Time to steam the salmon, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, salmon. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. Salmon, Broiled.—Take one or more slices of salmon, not more than half an inch thick. Rub them over with oil, and sprinkle a httle pepper and salt over them. Rub a clean gridiron with fat, make it hot, and place the slices of salmon upon it over a clear fire. Turn the fish every five minutes till it is done onough. basting it occasionally with oil or butter, ^\'hou the flesh leaves the bone easily on slight pres- sure the salmon is done enough. Place it on a dish, and send lobster, shrimp, or caper sauce to table with it. Time to broil, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, stdmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. Sufficient, one pound and a (lunrter for three persons. Salmon, Broiled (another way).—Oil each piecie of salmon and wrap it in greased paper; boil gently and turn frequently. Time, fifteen minutes to givc l lio fish a nice pale yellow colour. Serve with Dutch or capei aauco.