( 61« ) PAT PAT purpose. Those pates are very expensive. A good iiuitutiou of thoni may be made without subjecting the unfortunate geeao to the cruelties desui-ibod by following the direc- tions here given:—Take the livers from three line fat geese, such as are ordinarily brought to market, and in drawing the birds bo careful not to break the gall-bag, as the contents would impart a bitter taste to the livers. Carefully Tomovo any yellow spots there may bo upon them, and lay the livers in milk for six or eight hours to whiten; cut them in halves, and put three halves aside for forcemeat. Soak, wash, and scrub, and peel three-quarters of a pound of truffles, carefully preserving the cuttings. Slice a third of them into narrow strips, like lardoons, and stick them into the re- mainder of the livers three-quarters of an inch apart; sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, and spice, and put them in a cool place until the forcemeat is made. Mince finely, first separately and afterwards together, a pound of fresh bacon, a third of the truffles, the halves of the livers that were put away for the purpose, two shallots, and eight or ten button mush- rooms ; season the mixture with plenty of pepper and salt, two or three grates of nutmeg, and half a salt-spoonful of powdered mar- joram, and keep chopping until it is quite smooth. Make the paste according to the direc- tions given in Paste for Raised Pies [see Paste for Eaised Pies). Cover the bottom of the pie with thin rashers of ham, fat and lean together; spread evenly on these one-half of the forcemeat, then put in the three livers, with the slices of truffle stuck in them, and afterwards the remainder of the forcemeat. Intersperse amongst the contents of the pie the remaining quarter of a pound of truffles, and cover the whole with two or three more slices of ham or bacon. Put the cover on the pie, ornament as fancy dictates, brush it over with beaten egg, make a hole in the centre for the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, two hours or more. Probable cost, iincertain. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pate of Poies Gras, Mock {see Calf's Liver). Pate of Macaroni—Put six ounces of the best macaroni into a saucepan, with a moderate-sized onion and three pints of boiling water, seasoned with half a salt-spoonful of salt and half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes; dram it well put it back into the saucepan, with half a pint of broth, and lot it simmer again until the onion is absorbed and the maca- roni tender, but unbroken. Place a layer at the bottom of a deep pie-dish, sprinkle over it a dessert-spoonful of grated Parmesan, and put little pieces of butter hero and there upon it ; cover it with beef-steak which has been seasoned rather highly, stewed until tender in good brown (rravv, and then cut into small thin pieces. A pound of beef-steak wiU be sufficient for this quantity of macaroni. If preferred, fncasseed chicken, minced veal, sweetbread cut into dice, or mushrooms, may be substituted for the beet, but they must aU be stewed in rich gravy before they are put with the macaroni. Fill up the dish with alternate layers of macaroni and moat, and let the upj>enno8t layer be composed of macjiroui; sprinkle an ounce of Parmesan oyer the top, and pour over it lialf an ounce of clarified butter, then put tlie dish into a Dutch oven, Ixjfore a clear fire, or into the oven, and •when the cheese is dissolved the pate is ready for serving. Time to bake, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 'is., if made with steak. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Patience.—Patience is the name of a plant which closely resembles spinach, and which is easily cultivated and very productive, though it has of late years fallen into comparative disuse. As it is particularly mild in flavour, the addition to it, at the time of cooking, of a small propor- tion of sorrel, or of true spinach, will be found a great improvement. It is prepared as follows:— Tear the mid-rib out of each leaf, lea\'ing only the green part. Wash the leaves in two or three waters to free them from grit, put them into a very large saucepan, with half a pint of water, or just sufficient to keep them from burning, press them down well with a wooden spoon, and let them boil until they are perfectly tender, then drain them thoroughly, and mash them well, seasoning them with pepper and salt. Put them into a clean saucepan, with a little butter, "and stir the preparation over the fire until it is quite hot. Put it on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time to boil, ten minutes. Probable cost uncertain, patience being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, a pailful for three or four persons. Patissiere, Cream {see Cream Patissiere). Patties.—Recipes for making the following patties wiU be found under their respective headings:— Beef Macaroni Cheese Makrow Chicken Meat Dresden Mince for Eel Mutton Fish Oysters Game Oysters with Ham and Chicken Mushrooms Ham and Eggs Shrimps Jam Sweet Lemon Turkey Lobster Veal. Patties, Fried.—Prepare some good puff paste, and roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, stamp it with a pastry- cutter into rounds an inch and three-quarters in diameter, place a tea-spoonful of minced meat between two of these, moisten the edges, pinch them securely, and frj' them in plenty of fat until they are crisped and lightly browned. Thoy should be placed in a ^^•l^e drainer, plunged into the fat ^yhen it is boiling, and wcU drained from it before they are served. The following is one amongst many of the preparations which may be put int^ the patties :-Minco finely six ounces of cold dressed veal, and twelve ounces of j'oilcd ha^, add an egg, boiled hard and chopped small, and s^son «fe mixture with a 1 ttle pepper. salt powdered mace, and grated lemon-nnd.