( 1677 ) VEL YEN mav be xised instead of the veal, if liked. Time, two hours to simmer the sauce. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Probable cost, 9d. Veloute Sauce, Maigre.—Put two poimds of fish into a saucepan with a small onion, a clove, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a very small sprig of thyme, half a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Pour upon these in- gredients a large wine-glassful of sauterne or ehablis, or, failing this, of fish stock. Cover the saucepan, and let its contents simmer gently for five or six minutes. Add two pints of fish stock, or water and another glassful of wine. Boil the liquor, skim it, and let it simmer untU the fish is done enough. Take it up, and strain the liquor. Thicken with white roux as in the last recipe, let it throw up the grease by the side of the fire, strain it, and put it aside for use. Whiting, gurnet, and pike are the fish best suited for this purpose. The heads and bones may be advantageously used for sauce. VeloTita Sauce, or White CuUis.— Butter the bottom of a stewpan, and cover it with slices of thin lean ham. Place upon it three pounds of the knuckle of veal and an old hen, if this is to be had, or the bones of a cold roast chicken. Pour over it half a pint of stock, and let it boil away till it is reduced to glaze. Draw it back before it has time to acquire any colour, pour upon it seven pints of stock, and add a small onion in which one clove has been stuck, a carrot, a little parsley, half a bay-leaf, a small sprig of thyme, and a little pepper and s£ilt. ' Let it simmer gently, and skim fre- quently till the goodness is all drawn from the veal. Strain it, let it get cold, and free it from fat. Make a roux in a stewpan of equal parts of butter and flour. Before it can brown, moisten with the stock. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire tiU it ceases to throw up grease. Skim carefully, strain through a cloth, and the sauce will be ready for use. For veloute sauce made in a large quantity, see Principles OF Cookery, page xxvi. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. for this quantity. Velvet Breakfast Gakes. American {see American Velvet Breakfast Cakes). Velvet Cream.—Dissolve haK an ounce of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of water. Add a large wine-glassful of sherry, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and six ounces of lump sugar which have been well rubbed upon the rind of a large fresh lemon. Stir the mixture over the fire until the sugar is entirely dissolved. Let the preparation get cold, and before it begins to stiffen mix with it a pint of cream. Pour it into a mould which has been soaked in cold water. Let it stand aU night in a cool place, and turn it out upon a glass dish. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Velvet Cream (another way).—&e Cream, Velvet. Velvet Cream (another way). — Pre- pare the velvet cream as in the last recipe. Cut four or five sponge cakes into slices, and Jay these in a glass dish. If preferred, substi- tute three ounces of macaroons and one ounce of ratafias for the sponge cakes. Place round them a little apricot or greengage jam. A glass- ful of sherry may be poured over them or not. Take the cream when it is quite cold, and before it begins to stiffen, and pom- it over the sweet- meat. Serve when cold and stiff. Probable cost, 38. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Velvet Cream (another way) .—Put a pint and a quarter of milk into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the thin rind, of half a lemon, and an inch of stick cinna- mon. Let it simmer till pleasantly flavoured. Put two dessert-spoonfuls of Oswego into a basin, and mix with it foui' well-beaten eggs. Strain the milk when it is cool into the eggs, and stir the custard over the fire tiU it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Stir it off the fire tiU it is almost cold, add a few drops of vanilla essence, and pour it into a glass dish over sponge cakes or ratafias soaked in sherry and covered with jam. Let it stand in a cool situation three or four hours before serving. Time, about twenty minutes to simmer the mUk with the flavouring. Probable cost, 2s- Sufficient for six or seven persons. Velvet Cream made with Gelatine. —Soak three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of water for half an hour. Pour upon it a quarter of a pint of sherry or raisin wine, and stir it over the fire till dis- solved. If it is preferred, the gelatine may be dissolved in half a pint of wine only, instead of wine and water. Add six ounces of loaf sugar which have been rubbed upon the rind of two fresh lemons to draw out the flavour, together with a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and stir the mixture over the flre till the sugar is dissolved. Pour the liquor into a bowl, and when it is cool mix with it gradually but thoroughly a pint of thick cream. Pour it into a moiild which has been laid in cold water for some time. Serve upon a glass dish. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Venetian Biscuit for Dessert.— Break four eggs, and put the whites upon a plate and the yolks into a basin. Beat the whites, and when they are firm add them to the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, together with half a pound of flour, half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, a small glassful of brandy, and a pinch of salt. Lastly, work in half a pound of butter melted but not oiled, and beat the mix- ture with a wooden spoon till the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Pour the batter a quarter of an inch thick into a baking-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is cold, stamp it into pieces about three inches long and of an oblong shape. Split these in halves, and insert a little jam between them. Press them closely together, and cover one half with pink icmg, and the other half vdth white icing. Dry the icing, and the biscuits will be ready fof serving. Venetian Biscuit with Chocolate Icmg.—Break six eggs, and beat the yolks and whites separately. ]Mix gradually with the yolks half a pound of powdered sugar, and beat the paste briskly for twenty minutes. Whisk the whites to a froth, and add tliem to the yolks.