PAT PEA ( 519 ) moisten it with a table-spoonful of thick cream and one of good gravy. It will then be ready for use. Time to fry the patties, twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. A dozen are required for a dish. Patties, Pried Bread.—Cut three or four sUces,an inch and a half thick, from a stale quartern loaf. That called by bakers a sand- ■svich loaf answers excellently for the purpose. Cut the slices into rounds an inch and thi-ee- quarters in diameter, and make a tolerably deep incision at one end, a quarter of an inch from the edge, to mark the Ud and the part which is afterwards to be scooped out for the admission of the meat. Fry the bread in plenty of boiling fat or dripping imtil it is lightly browned all over, drain it from the fat, take off the top, and remove the crumb from the middle, and put in its place the prepared meat. Serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Fry until the patties are equally and lightly browned all over. Time to fry, about twelve minutes. Probable cost of cases, Id. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Patties, Gravy for {see Gravy for Patties). Patties, Monks'. — Make some good puff paste, and line as many patty-moulds as are required, according to the directions already given. Pare a large truffle, and mince it very finely; mix with it the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs cut into dice, half a salt-spoonful of seilt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and as much powdered mace as would cover a threepenny-piece. Moisten the mixture •with a table-spoonful of thick cream. Put a smaU portion into each patty, place the cover on the top, press the edges securely, and pinch them with a pincers. Bake in a tolerably brisk oven. If preferred, half a dozen button mush- rooms, stewed in butter, and afterwards chopped small, may be used instead of the truffle. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2d. each. This quantity is sufficient for three or four patties. Patties, Preparation of.—Patties may either be baked in patty-pans or without them. They are usually made with puff paste, and filled with savoury ingredients of various kinds. They should be baked in a brisk oven. If made in patty-pans, lightly grease the pans. Make the pastry according to the directions given for puff paste, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Line the moulds with this, fill them ^.*J\ flo^. or place a crust of bread in the middle of them, put on the cover, trim the pastry evenly with the moulds, moisten the edges, press thorn together, and mark them with the prongs of a-fork, or with scissors. Hake in a moderate oven. When done enough, raise the covers, take out the crusts, and return the patties to the oven lor a minute or two to dry. Before serving, put the proper meat into the place where the bread has been. When made without moulds, roll out the paste as before, and cut it into an equal number of rounds, an inch and three- quarters m diameter. Place half of these on a huttered baking-tin, moisten the edges, place a tea-spoonful of the proper forcemeat in the centre of each, and cover if with another of the rounds, press the edges securely, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake in a brisk oven. Patties, whether served hot or cold, should be arranged on a folded napkin. Time to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes, Patty-pans {lee illustration accompanying the article on Almond Puffs). Peach.—The peach is amongst the most delicious and most highly-esteemed of our fruits. It differs from the nectarine in being covered with a soft down. This fruit, both when fresh and when preserved, is excellent for the table. The young leaves and the kernels possess an agreeable flavour, and may be used in cookery for flavour- ing purposes. When a peach is of superior quality and in good condition the skin is thin, and very lightly covered with down, the stone small, the pulp firm though full of a delicious juice, and the colour deep and bright on one side {see also Nectarines and Peaches). Peach. Cakes (a pretty dish for a Juvenile Party).—Divide carefully the yolks from the whites of four eggs; beat the yolks thoroughly, and mix with them six ounces of finely- powdered and sifted loaf sugar, a small pinch of salt, and a few drops of almond flavour- ing. Beat these ingredients thoroughly for a quarter of an hour, then dredge in gradually six ounces of fine flour, and afterwards the whites of the eggs, which have been whisked to a solid froth. Beat the mixture five minutes longer, then drop it, in small roimds of uniform size, either upon a buttered and floured baking- tin or upon a sheet of thick cartridge paper; bake in a brisk oven until they are lightly browned. The cakes must be carefully watched or they will be too highly coloured. When they are sufficiently baked, spread a little peach jam upon the under parts, and stick the cakes together in two, so that they will re- semble as nearly as possible a peach in size and shape. Cover them over very thinly with a little white icing, made by beating the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and then mixing with them half a pound of finely-sifted loaf sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, the whisking being continued until the Liquid looks thick, smooth, and white. Let the icing dry, and, if liked, brush over one side of the cakes with a little water, coloured with cochineal, to make them look more like peaches. Serve the cakes neatly arranged on a glass dish, with whipped cream in the centre. Time to bake, eight to twelve minutes. Probable cost, 2s, 6d. per pound. Peach Cream Ice.—Divide twelve ripe peaches into halves, blanch the kernels, and put them, with the fruit, into a stewpan, with a syrup, made by boiling six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water until the sugar is dis- solved. Stir the contents of the saucepan over the fire until the fruit is reduced to pulp, then press it through a hair sieve into a basin. Add three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in half a pint of water, a pint of whipped cream, and three or four drops of prepared cochineal. Put the cream into an ice-mould that has a cover, and when it begins to thicken