( 934 ) STU STTJ and for stuffing of veal, game, poultry, &c. The ingredients should bo so proportioned thut ni) flavour prodoniinatos. To give the same stuffing for voal, hare, &c., argues a poverty of invention; with a little contrivance you may make as great a variety as you have dishes. The poignancy of forcemeat should be pro- portioned to the savourinoss of the viands to which it is intended to give an additional zest. Some dishes require a very del:':..i.oiy ilavourcd forcemeat—for others it must be full and highly B ^asoned. What would be piquante in a turkey would be insipid with turtle. Tastes are so different, and the praise the cook receives will depend so much on her pleasing the palate of those she works for, that all her sagacity must bo on the alert to produce the flavours to which her employers are partial. Most people have an acquired and peculiar taste in stuffings, &c., and what exactly pleases one seldom is precisely what another considers the most agreeable, and after all the contrivance of a painstaking palatician to combine her " haul ffouts'^ in the most exquisite proportions, the very dish one likoa the best is acid or insipid to the rest. Sturgeon.—The sturgeon is a large fish somewhat resembling the shark in form. Its body is more or less covered with rows of bony spikes. In the north of Europe, and in some of the States of North America it is caught in abundance, but it is seldom met with in English rivers. It is said that those who have THE STURGrEON. the good fortune to capture it are bound to send their prize to the reigning sovereign, as the sturgeon is regarded as a royal fish. The flesh of the sturgeon is agreeable and whole- some, and looks something like veal. It was so highly esteemed in ancient days that it was crowned before being brought to table, and a band of music marched before it. Its roe is converted into caviare, a favourite Russian delicacy, and from its air-bladder fine ismglass IS prepared. It is occasionally to be met with in the London market, and generally fetches a Kood price; indeed, it is so rare, and costs so muchf that when it is obtained it is generaUy dressed regardless of expense. The sterlet, though the smallest, is the most highly-prized species of sturgeon. Its flesh is delicious, and its caviare is reserved exclusively for the Rus- sian court. Price, when for sale, from 7s. 6d per pound. Sturgeon (a la Cardinal).—Take a]>out two pounds of sturgeon. Cleanse thoroughly, and skin it. Bind it into shape firmly with tape, and lay in a saucejjan, and with it an onion stuck with four cloves, a little piece of mace, a sliced carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a glass of vinegar, and as much water as will cover the fish. Let all boil gently until the sturgeon is done. Lay it on a dish, poiu- lobster sauce over it, and serve. A few prawns and green parsley may be used as a garnish. The time required to boil sturgeon will vary accord- ing to the size and age of the fish from which the piece was taken—from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, from Is. 6d. per poimd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sturgeon (a la Proven<,'ale).—Take a slice of sturgeon cut from the middle of the fish, lard it all over with thin strips of ham, or even of eel, and brown it by putting it in a stew- pan with a large slice of butter, a spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, half a clove of garlic, and a httle pepper and salt. Lay two or three bay-leaves on the top of the fish, and pour a Uttle stock round. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents simmer over a gentle fire till they are done enough. Serve the fish on a hot dish, and send its own gravy, melted butter, brown sauce, anchovy sauce, or any similar sauce, to table with it. Time, according to the age and size of the fish. Sturgeon (a la Russe).—Take a piece of sturgeon weighing about two pounds. Cleanse thoroughly, scale it, remove the spikes, and lay it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. An hour before it is wanted rub it well with vinegar, and let it lie with a little vinegar poured round it. Put it into a fish-kettle with as much boiling water as ■vs'ill cover it, and add two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an ounce of bay-salt. Let it boil gentlv till done enough, take it up, flour it well, put it before a brisk fire, and baste it with butter till it is well browned. Put it on a dish, and pour over it. or serve separately in a tureen, a sauce prepared as follows:—Bone and skin two anchovies, and put them into a saucepan with a glass of white wine, a button onion, an inch of lemon-rind, and a cupful of stock. Boil all gently together for a minute or two. Strain the sauce, thicken it with flour and butter, stir two table-spoon- fuls of thick cream into it, and serve. Sturgeon (M. Ude's way).—Boil the stur- geon in salt and water. When it is done, dram, and mask or cover it with the foUowing sauce :- Reduce in a small stewpan four spoonfuls ol elder vinegar, men it is half reduced, put in six spoonfuls of vcloutc, or rather a quantitv proportionate to the size of the fish, and half a spoonful of cavicc ; thicken the sauce with three yolks of eggs, and add a quarter of a pound of butter and some salt and pepper. Work this sauce well; drain the fish, and cover