SAL ^ (817 ) SAL Salsify, Boiled (M. Soyer's way).—"I do not know," says M. Soyer, " why this vege- table, which is held in such high esteem on the Continent, should be so little esteemed with us. I will here supply their manner of cooking it, and perhaps you ^vill give it a fair trial. Take twelve middling-sized ones, scrape them well till quite white, rub each -mth. lemon, and put it in cold water. Put into a stewpan a quarter of a pound of beef or mutton suet cut in small dice, one onion, a bit of thyme, a bay-leaf, a table-spoonful of salt, and four cloves; put on the fire, and stir for five minutes; add two table-spoonfuls of floui-, and stir well; then add three pints of water. When just boiling, put in your salsify, and simmer till tender. They will take nearly one hour. Dish on toast; sauce over with Dutch, maitre d'hotel, or onion sauce, or a very good demi-glaze, or Italian sauce. Should any remain, they may be made into fritters thus: Put them in a basin, add a little salt, pepper, two spoonfuls of vinegar, half a chopped shallot, and a spoonful of oil; place in the salsify, and let it remain for some hours. When ready to serve, make a small quantity of batter, dip each piece in it, and fry for five minutes in lard or fat; dish up with fried parsley over." Salsify, Boiled, Plain.—Scrape the roots lightly, either cut them into three-inch lengths, or leave them whole, and throw them into water with a little lemon till wanted. Put them into boiling salt and water, and keep them boiling quickly till tender. Drain them, arrange on toast upon a hot dish, and pour over them good melted butter—white sauce, Dutch sauce, maitre d'hotel sauce, onion sauce, or Italian sauce, however, may be used. Sometimes the salsify is boiled in sauce flavoured with ve- getables, herbs, and spices instead of water. Time to boU, about one hour. Probable cost, 'variable. Suflicient, a dozen roots for a dish. Salsify Croquettes.—Wash, scrape, and boil the salsify till perfectly tender. Rub it through a colander or mash it, and mix with the puree a little butter, cream, salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice: beat it till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed and constitute a stilf smooth paste. Place this on ice, and when it is quite cold, shape it into the form of corks. Dip these into clarified butter, or, if preferred, into beaten egg and grated bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are crisp and brown. Lift them up, drain, and serve. Salsify, Fried.—IMake a batter as fol- lows:—Take six spoonfuls of flour, a small pinch of salt, a spoonful of olive oil, and beat the whole with beer enough to make it into batter, but do not make it too liquid. Then beat the whites of two eggs, and when well beaten pour them into the batter, which you must keep stirring gently. Next put the vegetables, that are done beforehand and well drained in a cloth, into the batter; take them out again one by one, and throw them into the dripping. Use a skewer to prevent their sticking together. When fried of a fine colour and crisp, send them up with fried parsley in the centre of the dish, and a little pounded salt sprinkled over the vegetables. Salsify, Fried, or Salsify Fritters. —Boil the salsify till tender, or, if preferred, take the remains of dressed salsify. Drain and dry the roots by pressing them in a soft cloth. Make a little frying batter, dip each root separately into this, throw them into hot fat, and fry them till they are lightly browned. Take them up, drain them on a sieve, an(l serve very hot, piled high on a dish, and garnished with fried parsley. No sauce will be needed for them when dressed in this way. Sometimes the salsify is dipped into egg and bread-cnmibs instead of batter before frying. When batter is used it may be made as follows: —Put three table-spoonfuls of flour into a bowl with a salt-spoonful of salt and an ounce of fresh butter. Add as much lukewarm water as will melt the butter, and beat the whole to a smooth batter. Put it into a cold place, and ten minutes before it is wanted add the weU- whisked white of an egg. The salsify is occa- sionally soaked in vinegar, with a little pepper and salt, before it is fried, but this is not neces- sary. When it has been done, the roots should be thoroughly drained afterwards. Time, one hour to boil the salsify; to be fried till crisp. Salsify in Salad or Aspic.—Take salsi- fies enough to fill a mould of the size of the dish, then boil them in the same way as the others; drain and cut them the length of the mould; dress them like a chartreuse, dip them into a little aspic to stick them together all round the mould, and fill the middle with a salad of small bits of salsifies all the same size; then season with salt, pepper, a little oil, vinegar, and aspic; put in also some parsley chopped very fine; toss the whole, and put it in the mould into ice. At dinner dip a rubber into hot water, rub the mould all round with it, and turn the salad out on the dish to serve up. If you can procure a few French beans very green, they will make the salad appear better; while haricot beans are likewise very useful. Salsify Salad.—Boil the salsify till per- fectly tender, drain it, and cut it into inch lengths. Put it on a dish, and pour over it any simple salad-dressing, or toss it up lightly with on, vinegar, salt, pepper, and chopped ravigote. Garnish as fancy dictates. Time to boil the salsify, one hour. Salsify Sauce.—Scrape and wash two roots of salsify, rub them with lemon, and throw them into cold water tiU wanted. Boil the roots till perfectly tender in lightly-salted water. Drain them, cut them into small pieces, stir them into half a pint of melted butter, simmer a few minutes, and serve. Time, one hour and a quarter. Salsify, Scalloped.—Boil the salsify till tender, and wash it or rub it through a colander. Put it into a bowl, which is placed in a larger one half filled with boiling water. This is to keep the salsify hot. Work into the pulp a little butter and milk, or cream, and season with salt and pepper. Add a pinch of celery salt, if it is at hand. Butter some scallop-shells, cover them with grated bread-crumbs, and fill them with the puree. Lay grated bread over the salsify, and place little pieces of butter here