woo ( IMG ) Woo of Tubingen. The following is his procoss, as wo tiiid it stated by Dr. Prout, in the " Philoso- phical Tninsautions" for 1827:—" In the iirst place, ovorylliing that was soluble in watijr was removed by frequent maceration and boiling. Tho wood was then reduced to a niinuto state of division—that is to say, not merely into hno fibres, but actual powder; and after being repeatedly subjected to tho heat of an oven, was ground in tho manner of corn. Wood thus prepared, according to tho author, acquires the taste and smeU of com-tlour. It is, however, never very white, but always of a yellowish colour. It also agrees with corn-flour in this respect, that it does not ferment without the addition of leaven, and in this case some leaven of corn-flour is found to answer best. With this it makes a perfectly uniform and spongy bread, and when it is thoroughly baked and has much crust, it has a much better taste of bread than what is made in times of scarcity, prepared from the bran and husks of com. Wood-flour, also, boiled in water, forms a thick, tough, trembling jelly, like that of wheat starch, and which is very nutritious." Woodcock.—Woodcocks, Hke snipe, are only good when they are fat. They are cooked but in a very few ways. The most delicate parts are the legs and the intestines. The fillets of woodcocks, for those persons who do not like their meat underdone, are tough, and without savour. They are held in high esti- mation when roasted or en salmi (as a hash). A puree of woodcocks is also served occa- sionally. They may, however, be dressed in as many ways as young partridges. When loasted, you must always put a toast imder them to receive the intestines, which generally drop out while roasting unless paper is used to secure them. Take care to stop the spit when the back is towards the fire, because the legs are to be well done and the fillets under- done. THE WOODCOCK. Woodcock la LucuUus).— Roast the woodcocks in tho usual way, and catch the trail on a toast. Take the birds up when they aro still under-dressed, pour over them a little melted butter with which the yolk of an egg and a little cream has been mixed, sprinkle grated bread-crumbs lightly over them, brown them in a Dutch oven or with a salamander, and serve with brown gravy. Time to roas'. the woodcocks, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Woodcock (a la Perigueux).—Truss three woodcocks, cover them with layers of bacon, and tie those on seciu-ely with string. Put tliem into a stewpan, pour over them as much richly-flavoured stock as will barely cover them, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Let them simmer gently till done enough. Drain them, and remove the tapes. Put them on a dish, pour over them some Perigueux or truffle sauce, and serve. Woodcock, Ch.aud Froid of.—Truss four woodcocks, and to keep them from ac- quiring any colour, wrap them in buttered Avriting-paper. Roast before a clear fire, let them get cold, and cut them into neat joints. Make a little highly-seasoned and stiffly-reduced iiUemande sauce. Cover the joints of wood- cock evenly with this, and put them on a dish in a cold place till it is set. Put in the centre of a dish a block of fried bread three inches high and an inch and a half across. Place tho woodcock roimd this in a pyramidal form, and •ornament the dish with aspic jelly. Woodcock, Devilled.—Divide a brace of under-dressed woodcocks into neat joints, and season the pieces with a savoury powder made in the propoiiion of a tea-spoonful of salt to a tea-spoonful of curry-powder, a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a dessert-spoonful of nmshroom- powder. Split the heads, take out the brains and put them in a basin with the trail, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, the grated rind of half a lemon, a pinch of pounded mace, and a table- spoonful of soy. Rub the mixture with the back of a wooden spoon till it is smooth, and add the juice of two Seville oranges, a table- spoonful of ketchup, and a glassful of madeira or sherry. Put the sauce with the birds into a silver dish over a spirit lamp, stir occasion- ally, and simmer gently till it is very hot and the flesh has become thoroughly impreg- nated with the liquor. Stir in quickly a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, and serA-e im- mediiitcly. Woodcock, Fillets of. -Take ax woodcocks, cut neatly tho fiUets from each side of the breast and the sUces from the^ sides. Season them aU with pepper and salt, i ut tlie large fiUets into a saucepan, pour clarified butter over them, cover with a round of but- tered paper, and let them cook gently tiU done enough. Put the small fillets into a buttered baking-dish, place a httle P^ece of truffle upon each, and bake m a gentle oven. Arrange the fillets neatly in a circle on a dish put a little truffle puree in the centre, and serve with brown gravy m a boat. Woodcock, Gravy for.-Plam "^^Ited butter or gi'uvy 'is generally served ^jithjvood- cocks. It should be put m a tureen, as if it wero poured into tho dish with the birds, it