cashell'8 cookery. 11G4 Put it into a mould, and embed it in ice till it is set. In the piston freezing macliii.« the preparation is placed in cylinders, and outside these are jnit j)ounded ic<^ salt, and a little water. The piston is then worked up and down, and tliis not only moves the ice and salt round the cylinders, but also moves the " stirrers " inside the cylinders, which nuikes the i>reparation smooth. Wlien it is frozen it is pi-essed firmly down and moulded, then embedded in ice till it is quite set. Fr(;ezing powders for generating ice are much used. Some machines can be used with these powdei-s only, othem requii-e a mixture of ice and salt. A freezing pail may be })rocured for about Vs. 6d.; a pewter freezing pot which will hold one quart, for 12s. 6d.; two quarts, IGs. Gd. • three quarts, 25s.; a spatula for 5s.; freezing machines from 35s. Freezing powdei-s are sold in boxes, or by the cwt. Ice Safes or Refrigerators.—Ice safes are constructed for the purpose of keeping mnes, jellies, butter, milk, &c., deliciously cool in summer time. The price varies according to size, which regulates also the quantity of ice required per week. A small safe, 1 ft. 10 in. by 1 ft, 8 in. will need 40 lbs. of ice per week, and for a large one measuring 4 ft. 2 in. by 2 ft. 3 in., 150 lbs. will be requisite. There is an improved refrigerator which is fitted with a filter, and is so constructed that the water as it melts is drained into the filter, where it is kept ready for drinking, and ice cold. The cost of a refrigerator will be from <£2 10s, to £8 8s., according to size. If fitted with a filter it will be more expensive. JELLY Bags.—Jelly bags may be bought ready made, but they are much the best when made at home. Procure a piece of very stout flannel. That used for making ironing blankets is very good. Turn it comerwise, and make it in the shape of a fool's cap. Be careful to stitch the seams twice with strong thread, and fasten tapes round the top at equal distances, by means of which it may be suspended from the stand. The easiest way of using it is to fasten the mouth of the bag round a loop, and tliis will keep it open, so that the jelly may be conveniently poured into it Stands are sold on purpose for jelly bags; when one of these is not at hand, the bag may be hung between two chairs tux^ned back to back. A jelly bag may be made of any size. It should be dipped into hot water, and wi-ung quite dry befoi-e being used. Extempore jelly-bags may be made by tying a clean cloth on the legs of a chau- turned upside down on a table. Jugs, Kitchen.—In buying jugs, always choose the shape so that the cook's hand can be easily inserted. Otherwise they are apt to be put by with a rim in the upper part of stale milk or beer, thus rendering sour the next liquid poured into them. Knife Baskets.—Knife baskets are made of wicker work, with a tin lining. They can be very easily washed out and dried. Probable cost of tinned baskets, 10s, Japanned baskets may be had for about 2s. Larding Needles.—Larding needles are used in larding. They are made with split ends, and are intended to hold the little strips of bacon called lardons, which, by their means, are introduced into the surface of the meat. Tliey are sold in boxes, which contain twelve needles of difierent sizes, or they may be bought separately, Probable cost, 9d. to Is. each. Lemon Squeezer.—By means of this little utensil the juice can be pressed from the lemon so thoroughly that scarcely a drop is left in it. As it is almost impossiljle to squeeze a lemon quite dry with the hand, the lemon squeezer may certainly be classed amongst the kitchen utensils which prevent waste. Price, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Marble Slab for Pastry.—Pufi" paste ought properly to be rolled upon a mai'ble slab; it is then much more likely to be light and puffy than when it is rolled upon wood. Marble slabs are sold for the purpose. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Meat Chopper.—A meat chopper is used to chop into small pieces and to dis- joint bones, which are to be stewed down for gravy or stock. The price is from Is. 9d. to 3s. A meat cleaver to be used for the same purpose will cost fi-om 4s. 6d. Meat Safes.—Meat safes belong properly to the larder. They are intended to preserve meat, pa.stry, &c., from flies and dust. They are almost indispensable in hot weather. It should be remembered that meat, &c., should be allowed to become perfectly cold before being ]mt into the safe. Small wire safes may be bought for