POR ( 601 ) POR cold water all niglit, add the grated crumb of a quartern loaf which has been soaked in two quarts of hot milk until the milk was ab- sorbed. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Prepare a seasoning of a tea-spoonful of winter savoury mixed with a tea-spoonful of chopped thyme, a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, half a tea-spoonful of penny-royal, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, half a dozen pounded cloves, half a nutmeg grated, and a quarter of an ounce each of pounded allspice and ginger. Stir this seasoning into the groats, bread- crumbs, and blood, and add thi-ee pounds of finely-chopped beef suet and six well-beaten eggs. Cut half a pound of the inward fat of the pig into pieces the size of a large bean. Tie the skins at one end, and turn them inside out. Half fill them only with the mixture to allow room for swelling, and put in the fat at regular intervals. Tie them in equal lengths or rounds, fasten the ends securely, thi'ow them into boil- ing water, and when they have boiled for five minutes take them out, prick them to let out the air, put them back, and boil gently for half an hour. Take them up, and when they are cold hang them in a cool dry place until wanted. When they are to be used, boil a few minutes in water, and toast in a Dutch oven. Probable cost, 48. 6d. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pork Black Puddings (another way).— Prepare the skins. {See the preceding recipe.) Put a little salt into the warm blood, and stir until it is cold. Boil a quart of half grits until tender in as much milk as will cover them all the time. Drain them, and mix with them half a pound of bread-crimibs which have been soaked in hot milk until all the milk was absorbed, a pint of cream, and as much blood as will make the pud- ding a dark colour. Add a pound of finely shred suet and a dessert-spoonful each of chopped sage, thj-me, marjoram, penny-royal, and onion, ^vith a table-spoonful of parsley, and a seasoning made of two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, six cloves, and a quarter of an ounce each of pounded nutmeg, ginger, and allspice. Mix all thoroughly with eight well- beaten eggs. Cut two pounds of the inward fat of the pig into pieces the size of a large beau. Half fill the skins, put in the fat at regular intervals, and tie the pudding in equal lengths. Put these into hot water, boil five minutes, then prick and boil them again half an hour. Sc Tve as before directed. Probable cost, 6s. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pork Black Puddings (another way). —8ee Black Pudding, &c.; also Pig's Blood. Pork Black Puddings with Onions. —Prepare the skins according to the directions given in the last recipe but one. Put a table- spoonful of vinegar into a quart of warm blood, and stir until it is cold. Cut four ounces of the inward fat of the pig into dice, and mix with thi.s two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, a quarter of an ounce each of allspice and ginger powdered, and six ounces of minced onions which have been fried until tender in a little dripy)ing or lard. Add the blood, and mix thoroughly. Half fill the skins, tie them in equal lengths, and boil very gently until they are done enough. In order to ascertain when they have reached the proper point, prick tliem with a large needle. If nothing but fat follows the needle, take them up, lay them on a napkin to cool, and hang them in a cool dry place. When they are wanted, simmer them for ten minutes, cut them into thin slices, and fiy them. Time to boil, about twenty-five minutes. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Pork Black Puddings with Rice. —Stir a little salt in a pint and a half of warm blood till it is cold. Add the grated crumb of half a quartern loaf, and six ounces of Carolina rice which has been boiled until tender in a quart of milk. Mix thoroughly, add the seasoning mentioned in the preced- ing recipe, with three ounces of the inward fat of the pig cut into dice, one pound of finely-shred beef suet, and four well-beaten eggs. Half fill the skins, boil, hang, and serve as before; these puddings are very good when they are lightly broiled instead of being fried. Time to boil, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pork, Bladebone of.—The bladebone of pork from a full-grown bacon-hog, and from which nearly all the meat has been cut, may be taken. It is best broiled over a quick fire until the meat is done through. A minute before it is taken from the fire a little pepper and salt should be sprinkled over it. Serve on a hot dish with a tea-spoonful of mustard mixed with a piece of butter the size of an egg laid upon the meat. Time to broil, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 8d. to 9d. per pound. Pork Brawn.—Take a small pig's head with the tongue, and two pig's feet. Clean and wash them, sprinkle two table-spoonfuls of salt over them, and let them drain until the following day. Dry them with a soft cloth, and rub into them a powder made of six ounce? of common salt, six ounces of moist sugar three-quarters of an ounce of saltpetre, and three-quarters of an ounce of black pepper. Dry the powder well, and rub it into every part of the head, tongue, ears, and feet: turn them over and rub them again every day for ten days. Wash the pickle from them, cut off the ears, and boil them vdth the feet in a separate saucepan with as much cold water as wiU cover them. They will require to be boiled one hour and a half before the head, and afterwards may be put with it. Put the head and tongue into a stewpan, cover with cold water, and let them boil gently until the bones will leave the meat. Take them up, di-ain them, cut the meat into small pieces, first re- moving the bones from the head, feet, and ears, and the skin from the tongue; do this as quickly as possible. Season the mince with a tea-spoonful of white pepper, three salt-spoon- fuls of powdered mace, one salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and one salt-spoonful of cayenne. Stir all well together, press the meat while still warm into a brawn tin, and lay a heavy weight on the lid. Put it in a cool place until the following day, dip the mould in boiling water, turn the brawn out, and serve on