SHE SHE ( 862 ) the hairs, and put the trotters iuto boiling water for five luiuutos. Clean and scrape them well, and cut an inch off the end of the foot, including the hoofs, and carefully remove a dark eiu-ly-looking substance which grows between the divisions of the hoof. Sheep's trotters are usually sold in sets or gangs, they are wholesome and noui-ishing, and good jelly may bo made from them. They should be kept soaking in cold water two or three hours before they are to bo boiled. The liquor in which they are boiled will make excellent stock or jelly. Sheep's Trotters [see Mutton Trotters). Sheep's Trotters (a la Poulette).—Take twelve feet, ali-eady scalded and cleaned. Boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour, then remove the large bone from each by holding the foot in the left hand, and giving the bone a sharp jerk with the right. Shred four ■ounces of suet, and put it into a saucepan with two sliced onions, a scraped can-ot, a sprig of thjTne, and a bay-leaf. Stir these ingredients over a brisk fire for five minutes, then beat in two table-spoonfuls of flour, and when this is smooth add gradually five pints of water or stock. Stir the liquor till it boils, put in the *'eet, and let them simmer tUl quite tender. Take them up, and drain them on a sieve. Put rour ounces of butter on a plate, and work •.smoothly into it with the point of a knife a tea-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Heat a gill of milk in a saucepan. Stir the butter in this till it is melted, and add the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up with a cupful of milk or ■cream. Stir the sauce over the fire, and as it thickens add a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice. It must on no account boil after the •eggs are added. Heat the trotters in the sauce, put them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Garnish the dish with fried sippets. If liked, a few mushrooms or a little chopped parsley can be put into the sauce. Time to boil the trotters, three hours and a ialf. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sheep's Trotters, Broiled.—BoU the trotters as before {see Sheep's Trotters, &. la Poulette). When tender, take out the bones, and let them get cold. Cut them into neat slices, dip them in clarified butter, then into finely-grated bread-crumbs, and broil over a ^lear fire. Serve with sharp sauce. Time, three hours and a half to boil the trotters. Sheep's Trotters, Jelly from—Jelly made from sheep's trotters is wholesome, nourishing, and inexpensive; it is particularly suited for invalids and children. Put four " gang" of sheep's trotters into cold water, and let them soak for four hours. Cleanse per- fectly, and put them into a stewpan with a pound of lean beef, a crust of bread toasted all ■over to a bright brown, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyrne, a small onion, a blade of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of pepporcoms. Pour upon them two quarts of cold watci-, ;md let the liquor simmer gently by the side of the fire for SIX or eight hours, or until it is considerably reduced, and will stiften wlum cold. Pour it off, strain it through a jelly-bag, and put it in a cool place to stiffen. Time, eight hours. Sheep's Trotters, Marinaded.—Boil a gang of trotters according to the directions already given {see Sheep's Trotters, a la Poulette). Drain them, let them get cold, and cut them up into neat pieces convenient for serving. Put them into a basin, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and pour upon them two table-spoonfuls of vinegar and one of oil. Move them about, turn them occasionally, and let them lie in this marinade for an hour. Half an hour before they are to be served, drain the pieces from the pickle, dip them separately in frying-batter, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned all over. If preferred, instead of being dipped in batter and fried, they may be roUed in bread-crumbs and giUled. Dish them on a napkin, and send tomato sauce or sauce piquant to table with them. The frying batter may be made as follows:—Put five ounces of flour into a bowl, and beat it up with a pinch of salt and a quai-ter of a pint of water. Break two eggs, and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the latter with two tab.e-spoonfuls of lucca oil, stir the mixture into the flour, and beat it till it is smooth and thick. Ten minutes before the batter is wanted, whisk the whites of the eggs, and add them to it. It should be as thick as cream. A spoonfnl or two of water may be added if required. This batter is better if made an hour or two before it is to be used. Time to boil the trotters, three hours and a half; to fry the pieces, about ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for a small dish. Sheep's Trotters, Pate of.—Take a coarse earthen pate-dish which has a closely- fitting cover. Procure three "gang" of sheep's trotters already cleaned and parboiled, and cut each one into three pieces. Boil till tender, and pack them closely in the pate-dish, and, to season them, sprinkle between the layers a little pepper, salt, and powdered spice, to- gether with a moderate proportion of minced onion, chopped parsley, powdered thyme, biiy- leaves, and cloves. Place the cover on the dish, and in order to prevent the escape of the steam, fasten it down with a coarse paste made of flour and water. Put the ]i£lte in a gentle oven for five or six hours, or if it can be done let it be put in a baker's oven after the bread is drawn, and remain there all night. If gently cooked the feet will be reduced to jolly, and will constitute an excellent dish, which may be served hot or cold. If the oven is too much heated, the feet will be burnt up, dry, and good for nothing. Time to bake, five or six hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Sheep's Trotters, Simple way of Serving.—Stew the trotters gcutly for three or four hours till the bones will come out. They may either be boiled in water, or in a sauce made according to the directions already given in Shoo]i's Trotters a la Poulette. Wh(>n tender diain them, let them get cold, cut them