{ 848 ) SEE SED basil, and ono ounce of thin lemon-rind. No. 3. i^picc fur liagoilts.—Hulf a pound of mustard, )ialf a pound of black peppor, half a pound of t;:ratod lemon-rind, two oimcos of cayenne, ono ounce of ginger, ono ounce of allspice, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, and one pound of diy Siilt. No. 4. Kidtlors Sweet Spice for Jlavotiring rastry.—Two ounces of cloves, two ounces of cinnamon, two ounces of mace, two ounces of uutmog, and two ounces of sugar. No. 6. M'ued Spice fur flavouring Sausages.—Five pounds of black pepper, two pounds and a half of ginger, ono pound of nutmegs, one pound of cloves, half a pound of aniseed, and half a pound of coriandor-seod. Sedentary, Diet for the.—The follow- ing observations on this subject are drawn from the valuable Fi-ench work by Tissot on " The Health of Men of Letters." Daily observation proves the force of the mind's action on the .stomach; and this every man has an oppor- tunity of experiencing in himself; for the more intensely any man thinks, and the more strongly he excites the reflecting powers of his mind, the more slowly and with the greater difficulty does he digest what he eats; and, on the other hand, the freer a man's mind is from reflection, the more readily and the better he digests. The diet of those of studious and sedentary habits ia therefore a subject of the utmost importance. To enumerate all the various aliments which should be chosen and all those that should be avoided vs^ould be tedious, but we may men- tion the principal. All fat viscid aliments and all aliments hardened either by nature or art are hurtful. The ancients condemned all sorts of pulse, and Pythagorus strictly forbade his disciples to eat beans, as these possess an extra- ordinary flatulency, highly destructive to the tranquillity of mind necessary to the investiga- tion of truth. The tender flesh of all young animals is of great service—except that of swine and geese—not when boiled in copious broth, for then they are deprived of their nutritious juices, but when roasted or boiled in a small quantity of water. Such roots are wholesome as consist of a light flour, not without a mix- ture of salt or sugar; and the same is to to be said of soft herbs which are neither too acid nor too emollient. Nor should the several sorts of seeds be neglected; nor ripe fruits, concerning the use of which a caution should be observed; for they relax, dissolve, cause acidity, and thereby are the less fit for the sedentary. But it is to be observed that amongst the most severe disorders of the studious and sedentary are reckoned the stag- nation, the thickening, and the hardening of the bile, which defects are best remedied by fruits that swell with saponaceous juices, as strawberries, raspberries, gooseberries, peaches, grapes, pears, and other fruits of the like nature, which studious, sedentary men cannot well do without, especially in summer. Care should be taken to prevent their being detri- mental by eating them when the stomach iS empty cither with or without bread, and long before and long after having drunk wine; for ivhus they neither disturb the digestion of the otliiir aliments, nor, being hardened with wine, prove more difficult of digestion themselves. Eggs properly boiled are very good. Well- baked bread and pr(j])arationB of bread are also of service. Milk is whol(;some provided it does not grow acid on the stomach. Chocolate de- serves to be recommended, for it soon repairs and restores the strength ; it should not, how- ever, bo used to excess. Various dishcw which may bo made out of the aliments ahead}- men- tioned by judicious and prudent mixture are very wholesome, but it is better to use only simple food either raw or boiled. lielaxed fibres sometimes require a gentle stimulus, therefore a mild seasoning is not to be disap- jn-oved of, as salt, sugar, cinruimon, nutmegs, and such agreeable aromatics as are geperally cultivated—thyme and sweet marjoram, for example; but those are to be avoided which stimulate with a sharp salt or oil that nature can scarcely overcome. There are other helps to digestion, and the chief of these is exact mas- tication, which greatly forwards the work of the stomach; this is highly recommended by physicians; but slighted by others, verj"^ foolishly, and greatly to their own prejudice. Digestion is performed slowly by the studious and the sedentary, therefore fresh aliments should sel- dom be given them. To make three meals a day, one somewhat considerable, and the other two rather slight, will be sufficient. The example of Julius Caesar, who was very mode- rate in eating, is very properly proposed to the learned, as is likewise that of the illustrious Cornaro, who restored his ruined health by a regular diet alone; and eating but the fourth part of the quantity of victuals eaten by his fellow-citizens, lived to an advanced age, vigo- rous and cheerful. A regular diet is capable of effecting everything; studious men, how- ever, whilst they take care of their health, ought not to forget that a man who is well should not so confine himself to rules as not to break through them when he thinks proper; for a constant habit is real slavery ; and many learned and studious men have been knovra who were so scrupulous with regard to their hours of eating and going to bed, that their minds seemed to be chained to their bodies^ which is the most shameful sort of servitude. Seed Biscuits.—No. l. Beat four ounces of fresh butter to cream, add a pinch of salt, four ounces of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, one poimd of flour, and a tea-spoonful of cara- way-seeds. Mix the dry ingi'cdients thoroughly, and stir into them three well-beatcn eggs. Eoll out the pastry, cut it into fancy biscuits of any shape, prick these with a fork, and bake in a weU-heatcd oven. If hked, one egg, a httle milk, and a tea-spoonful of baking-powder may be used. No. 2. Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds, and a dessert-spoonful of saleratus dissolved m a little milk. Knead the dough tiU it foims a bght smooth paste, roll it out, stamp it into shapes, and bake in a well-heated oven. ^o. ^- ^^"'^ one pound of butter into three pounds of flour, add a pinch of salt, an ounce of ciraway-secas, and three-quarters of a pound of powdered, sugar. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly,