( 960 ) TAR TAR day's use, as the preparation ia better when freshly luude. Tartar Sauce.—Put the yolk of an egg quite free from white into a basin, and beat it for a minute or two with a pinch of salt, u pipch of pepper, and a table-spoonful of dry mustard. Stir into this, first in drojjs and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, four tiibk;-spooufuls of jjui-o salad oil, and bo careful to beat the sauce for a minute or two between every addition, as its excellence depends in a great measure upon this being done. After each six tca-spoonfuls of oil put in a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Wash and mince finely three shallots, six small ghci-kins, and a table-spoonful of mixed chervil and tarragon. Put tliese into the sauce with a pinch of cayenne. Mix thoroughly, and serve. If the sauce is not immediately wanted, it should bo kept in a cool place. Time to mix the sauce, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tartar Sauce (another way).—Wash and mince finely four sliallots. Put them into a mor- tar with a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon or cherWl (or both), a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs. Pound these ingredients until quite smooth. Put them into a bowl, and mix with them very gradually three table-spoonfuls of pure salad- oil. The oil should be put in first in drops, and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, and the sauce should be well beaten between each addition. If this point is carefully attended to, there will be no danger of the sauce curdling. When the oil is thoroughly incorporated, add three dessert-spoonfuls of best vinegar and one of chilli vinegar. Serve in a tureen. Tartlet-tins {see illustration accompany- ing the article on Almond Cheesecakes). Tartlets. — Tartlets may be made with puff paste, almond paste, or any sweet pastry. They are made as follows :—Butter some patty- pans, and line them with pastry rolled out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Trim them neatly, put a little crust of bread into each tartlet—or what wiU answer the same purpose, which is to keep the pastry from puff- ing up in the centre—prick two or three holes in the bottom of the tart: bake in a quick oven, ^\'^len they are two-thirds baked, take the tartlets out of the oven, remove the bread, and in its place put a spoonful of jam or mar- malade. Eetum them to the oven, and bake until done enough. Let them get cold before serving, ornament prettily, and send them to table piled high on a dish covered with a white napkin. Some cooks put the jam into the tartlet before it is baked at all, but this spoils both the taste and the appearance. Time to bake the tartlets, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, about Id. each. Sufficient, half a ])0und of pastry will make a moderate-sized dish of tartlets. Tartlets (another way).—Roll out the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out in an even number of rounds of uniform size, and make half of these into rings by pressing a small cutter quite through the centre of thorn. Moisten the edges of the rounds, ])laco the rings upon them, and press them tightly together. Put the tartlets on a , baking-tin, and bake them in a w-11-heated oven. j As soon as they are done enougli, take them out of the oven, and before they are cool fill tliem witli jam or marmalade. Lay a pastry ornament or a spoonful of whipped cream on the top, and they are ready for serving. Time to bake, about twelve minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Tartlets, Orange.—Make some rich puff paste, with wliich Ime some mince-pie tins. Put some orange marmalade into each, and squeeze fresh Seville orange-juice over them. Bake for a quarter of an hour, and strew pounded sugar over. The tartlets are good hot or oold. Tartlets, Pastry Cream for Gkir- nishlng {^ec Pastry Cream). Tartlets, To Ornament. — The usual w^ay of ornamenting tartlets is to lay upon them pastry leaves, flowers, or other devices. These may be made of the trimmings of the pastry, and should be baked separately in a slow oven. Sometimes a tea-spoonful of whipped cream is substituted for the pastry. Ornaments for tartlets are made also of almond pastry prepared as follows :—Pound and sift two ounces of loaf sugar, and mix with it two ounces of dried flour and an ounce of almonds pounded till smooth. Make this mixture into a stiff paste with the white of an egg well whisked with a table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Beat the paste, and roll it out as thin as possible. Stamp it into leaves, stars, flowers, half-crescents, or any other fancy shapes, and bake these in a slow oven tiU they are firm without being coloured. When cold they are ready for use. These ornaments may be kept between sheets of writing-paper in a tin box to be used when wanted. Tarts.—Recipes for the following tarts wiU. be found under their respective headings : — Apple, Creamed Custard Apple Damson Apple, Economical French Plum Apple, Open Fruit, Cream for Apple, Plain Fruit, Preserved Apple, Rich Gooseberry Apple, Young Jam Apricot, Green Jam, Open Black Currant Jelly Custard Cherry Lemon Chocolate TiiTTLE Ladies' Craxrerry Monitors' Cream Paste, Short, for Crust for Fruit Paste, Transparent, Currant and Rasp- Plum [fob berry Raspberry Tarts, Icing for.—Beat the whites of two eggs to a froth, and when the tart is nearly done cover the crust by means of a paste-brush with some of the white, then sprinkle over it some finely-powdered loaf sugar. Wash the