TTJK ( 1005 ) TVn or barben-ies. Many cooks wrap the turkey in a tluiu-ed cloth before putting it in to boil, but this spoils the stock, and wiU be rendered unnecessary if tlie scum is carefully removed as it rises. Time to simmer gently—a tui'key weighing ten pounds, two liours from the time the water reaches the boiling point; fifteen pounds, two hours and v. half. Probable cost, 68. to 128., excepting at Christmas. Turkey, Boiled, and Stuffed with Tongue.—Take a smaU boiled pickled tongue. Cut oh' the root entirely, leaving only a small portion of the fat. Pluck, draw, singe, and bone a turkey, and cut off the legs, but not the wings. Nearly till the inside with good veal forcemeat, push the tongue into the centre of the stuffing, and sew the skin over the back securely. Truss the bird firmly, and restore it as nearly as possible to its original shape. Cover the breast with thin slices of fat bacon, tie the bird in a clean white cloth, and boil it according to the directions given in the last recipe, being careful to simmer it very gently, for fear the skin should break. Serve it hot or cold with white or celery sauce, and in carving cut slices across the breast, so that turkey, tongue, and forcemeat may be served together. If this dish is intended for supper, let the turkey stand in a cool place for an hour or two, then pour over it some good white sauce luke- warm, ornament with cut lemon, truffle, &c., and garnish the dish with aspic jelly, lemon, and parsley. Turkey, Boning of.—Boning poultry is a difficult business for the inexperienced, and generally speaking is best left to the poulterer. Written instructions for its accomplishment are almost valueless, and the knowledge gained from them is worth very little compared to that which may be derived from once watching an experienced cook perform the operation. Tur- keys are usually boned without the skin being cut up the back. To do this the joints are loosened inside the bird, the flesh raised with a short sharp-pointed knife, and the bones drawn out gradually, the flesh being laid back, until the body is turned inside out, when the boning may be easily finished. When a turkey has been boned, the legs and wings are generally drawn into the body of the bird, and care must be taken to simmer and then to cool the bird very gently, for fear the skin should burst. Turkey, Braised.—An old turkey is never so good as a young one. When, however, a young one cannot be obtained, the old one will be more likely to give satisfaction if it is braised than if it is roasted. Pluck and singe the bird, cut off the neck and legs, empty it, and save the heart, liver, and gizzard. Cut the neck into three pieces, clean and scald the legs and the gizzard, and peel oflE the outer scaly skin from the legs and the thick inner skin from the gizzard. Cover the bird with thin slices of unsmoked fat bacon, and tie it round with twine to keep it in shape. Put three or four slices of bacon into a braising-pan, lay the turkey on these, and put in with it the giblets and trimmings of the turkey, and a calf's foot cut in two, or two sheep's trotters, together with four onions stuck with thi'ce cloves, three carrots, a parsnip, two bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a little salt and pepper, and half a clove of garlic, if liked. Some cooks add one or two glassf uls of wine and a glassful of brandy, but these are unnecessary. Lay two or three slices of bacon over the tur- key, and almost cover it with good stock. Put the lid on the stewpan, and simmer its contents veri/ gently from four to six hours, according to the size of the bird. If an ordinary stewpan is used instead of a proper braising-pan, which will hold ombers in the lid, turn the turkey over when it is half done. Braised turkey may be served either hot or cold. If it is to be eaten hot, lay it upon the dish, surround it with the best of vegetables stewed in it, or with a chipolata garnish prepared separately, and pour over it a small portion of the gravy freed from fat, and thickened with brown thickening. If it is to be served cold, let it remaia in the gravy in which it was stewed for half an hour after taking it from the fire. Strain the liquor, and boU till it is reduced to two-thirds its original quantity, so that it will form a jelly when cold. Strain this, and free it entirely from fat. If necessary, clear it with white of egg, according to the directions given for clarifying jelly. Brush two coats of this jell}'- over the turkey, then let the rest get cold and stiff; cut it into dice, stai's, strips, or other devices, and use it for garnishing the dish. Time to braise the turkey, according to size. Probable cost, un- certain. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Turkey, Carving of.—The breast of a turkey is so large, that slices taken neatly from it and from the wings generally suffice for aU TURKEY, EOAST, TO CARVE. the company. They should be taken from each side alternately, begiiming close to the wings, and a little forcemeat and a small portion of liver should be served to each guest. When it is necessary for the legs to be used, they should be separated from the body with a sharp knife and cut in slices, but it should be remembered that they, with the gizzard, will make an ex- cellent devil. Turkey, Choosing of.—A hen turkey is the best, and it should be young and plump. If young, the legs will be black and smooth. If fresh, the eyes will be bright and the feet supple. The length of the spur will show whether or not a cock turkey is young. Tur- keys are in season from September to February, and are at their best at Christmas. They should be hung at least a week in suitable weather, but if there ia any four that thoy are frozen, they