TOA ( 978 ) TIP Mutton witli Sausages, 25 Omolot and J[iuce, 44 Peas, Hacliis with, 45 Patties, 77 Pea Soup, 5 Pie, Baked, 79 Pie, Potatoe, 33 Pie, liaised, 76 Pies, Mutton, 72, 74 Pies, Small liaised, 75 Polish Kiee, 83 Potato Cover, Meat with, 32 Potato Pie, 33 " Potato Kissoles, 35 Potato Wall, 34 Pudding (au Gratin), 12 Pudding, Boiled, 13 Pudding, Forcemeat, 14 Pudding, Koll, 11 Pudding, Sausage, 18 Eagout de Milan, 65 Eaised Pie, 76 Eice, Carrole of, 93 Eice Eissoles, 36 Eice, Milanese, 84 Eice, Polish, 83 Eice, Spanish, 85 Eice (Turkish Fashion), 82 Eissoles, 37; Potato, 35 Eissoles, Eice, 36 Eissolette, 38 Eoll Pudding, 11 Salad, German, 97 Sausage Pudding, 18 Sausage Eolls, 78 Sausages, 17 Sausages, Bologna, 19 Shapo with Maeai-oui, 71 Sheep's Heart, Stuffed, 62 Sheojj's Liver, Beef with, 61 Smoking Chimney, 60 Soup, Julienne, 4 Soup, Pea, 5 Soup with Forcemeat Balls, 1 Squeak, Bubble and, 61 Stew, Irish, 6 Stuffed Cucumber, 66 Suet Pudding, Mutton Fried with, 24 Tart, Open Mince, 40 Timbale de Macaroni, 92 Toad in a Hole, 21 Toad in a Hole Force- meat, 20 Tomato Sauce, Beef and, 64 Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 65 Vol-au-Vent, 81 Wall, Potato, 34 White Sauce, Frita- della with, 47 Tipsy Bread.—Take a stale roll. Pare off the crust, and cut it into rounds a quarter of an inch thick. Spread a little jam on each side of these, and pile them one uj^on the other in the centre of a glass dish. Sift powdered sugar thickly over them, and pour upon them as much sherry as they will absorb. Blanch two or three ounces of sweet almonds, cut them into shreds, and stick them all over the surface of the bread. Pour a good custard round them, and set the dish aside until wanted. Tipsy bread should be made two or three hours before it is wanted. TIPSY CAKE, Tipsy Cake.—Take a moulded sponge or savoury cake three or four days old. Cut it quite level at the bottom, so that it wiU stand firmly on the dish, pierce it in several places with a skewer or knitting needle, and pour over it as much sweet wine mixed with two wine-glassfuls of Ijrandy a# it will absorb* Take up tlio liquor that IIuwh into th(! dish, and pour It over again and again until tJi(; cake is quite soaked. Blanch two ouncos of sweet alnionds, split them into spikes, and stick them all over tlie cake. Pour round it a rich cold boiled custard, and it will be ready for serving. Some- times the juice of half a lemon is mixed with the wine and brandy. Tiino, two liours to soak the cake. PnjLable cost, exclusive of the wine and brandy, 28., if the custard m made with milk. Sufficient for a dish. ^ Tipsy Cake (simple, for children).—Take a dozen small stale sponge cakes, spread a little jam on each, and arrange them in a pile in the centre of a deep glass dish. Pour over them as much raisin wine as they will absorb, and keep putting it over them till they are soaked. Pour round them a pint of nicely-flavoured cold cus- tard, and ornament tlie dish with dried fruits cut in slices. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for a dish. Tiverton Pudding. — Beat four eggs till they are very light. Mix smoothly with them three dessert-spoonfuls of fine flour, and add a table-spoonful of sugar, as much grated nutmeg and ginger as will together stand on a sixpence, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Bring a pint of milk to the point of boiling, pour it upon the mixture, and stir it briskly for a minute or two. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling water. Flour it well, and tie the pudding in it. Plunge it at once into boiling water, and let it boil quickl)'^ until done enough. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. Time to boU, about an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Toad in the Hole.—Mix a pinch of salt with four large table-spoonfuls of flour. Beat this to a smooth paste with two well-beaten eggs, and add two-thirds of a pint of milk. The milk should be added very graduaUj', and the pudding should be well beaten so that there are no lumps, and it should be of the consistency of very thick cream. Cut a pound and a half of beefsteak and one or two sheep's kidne)'S, or a quarter of a pound of ox kidney, into pieces convenient for ser^^ng. Lay them at the bottom of a hot buttered dish, and pour the batter over them. Bake in a brisk oven. The batter will be better if it is made an hour or two before it is wanted, but it should be beaten up again at the last moment before it is poured over the meat. Mutton chops, sausages, or a stuffed fowl may be sub- stituted for the steak and kidney, or a few mushrooms or oysters may be put ^vith the meat, or even a small quantity of minced shallot. The remains of cold meat also may be served in this way, and will be found to be very good, though, of course, not so good as when fresh meat only is used. Some cooks fry the meat lightly, to brown it a liltle, before putting it into the di.sh. Time to bake, from one hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, if made with steak, 28. lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Toast, Anchovy {sec Anchovy Toast).