( 606 ) side, and simmer very gently until the chops are done enough. ThicKen the gravy with Hour and butter, season with popper and salt; boil a few minutes longer, and serve the pork on a hot dish with the gi-avy poured round it. Time, four minutes to fry the pork; three- quai-ters of an hour to stew. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Pork, Griskin of—A. griskin of pork is a loin from a large pig with the bacon cut off, and is unfortunately often sent to table dry and hard. In order to prevent this, put it into a stewpan with as much cold water as wiU cover it. Bring the water to the boil, take out the meat, remove the skin, and put it down to a clear fire. A short time before it is done enough, strew over it a tea-spoonful of pow- dered sage mixed with an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, and a little salt and pepper. Baste Ubei-ally before the powder is strewn over the meat, but not afterwards. Send some apple sauce and gravy to table with it. If the skin is left on it will require longer roasting. Time, for a joint weighing seven pounds, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Pork. Griskin of (as Dressed in the South of Europe).—In the Southern Penin- sula the griskin of pork is allowed to He in claret flavoured with garlic for five or six days before it is dressed, being hung up to diy at intervals. At the end of that time it is roasted, and served with tomato sauce; or sweet herbs being sprinkled over it, it is wrapped in bay leaves, and stewed gently in the wine in which it was soaked, to which a slight flavouring of Seville orange-juice has been added. It forms a peculiar and piqiiant dish, much liked by those who have acquired a taste for prepara- tions of the kind. Pork, Griskin of Roasted. — The griskin is usually roasted. It should be put down to a clear fire, and basted constantly, and brown gravy and apple sauce should be sent to table with it. If liked, a tea-spoonful of powdered sage may be sprinkled over it a few minutes before it is taken down. As this joint is liable to be hard and dry when served, many cooks are accustomed, before roasting it, to put it in a saucepan of cold water, place it on the fire, and bring the liquid to the point of boiling : then drj- it well, flour it, and roast it as above described. Time, twenty minutes to the poimd. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Pork, Hand of.—The hand of pork is usually salted and boiled, and may be. sent to tabic with greens and pease pudding in a separate dish. It should have lain in salt about four days. If it has lain longer than that, and is very salt, it is well to let it soak a short time before boiling. It should be put into cold water, skin uppermost, the liquid should bo brought slowly to the point of boiling, tikimmod carefully, and then simmered gently until the pork is done enough. Time, half an hour per pound from the time the water boils. • 'rohable cost, 9(1. per pound. Pork, Hashed.—( !ut a pound .-ind !i half of cold roast pork into neat slices. If any gravy was left from the joint, it may be thickened with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, or with flour and butter flavoured with a little mushroom-ketchup or any other flavour- ing, and used for the hash. If this is not at hand, put the bones and trimmings from which the meat was cut into a saucepan -with a sliced onion, a clove, a blade of mace, a little salt and pepper, and a pint of water. Stew gently for an hour or more, skim and strain the gravy, and flavour as above. Put in the shoes of pork, and let them heat gently by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes. The gravy must not boil after the meat is added. Serve on a hot dish, garnish with toasted sip- pets, and send apple sauce to table in a tureen. The gravy may be made more saA'Oury by gently frying the onions in butter before stew- ing them, and, if liked, sage and onion sauce may accompany the hash. Time, half an hour after the gravy is made. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the cold meat, 4d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pork Kidney, Stewed.—Pork kidneys may be fried as directed for mutton kidneys, or they may be served as follows :—Take oft" the skin, and cut two kidneys into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Season -with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over them equal parts of parsley and finely-minced shallot. Fry in butter until they are lightly browned, stir a tea-spoonful of flour amongst them, and shake them weU in the pan. Add gradually a wine- glassful of gravy, or even water, and half a wine- glassful of light wine. Bring the sauce to the point of boUing. Take out the kidney. Mix a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley with the sauce, let it boil two minutes longer, pour it over the kidney, and serve very hot. Time altogether, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, pork kidneys, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Pork Xiard.—The inside fat of the pig is melted for lard. To make it, cut the fat into thin slices, and put these into a jar. Place the jar in a pan of water, and keep this boUing until the fat dissolves. As it melts, pour it off into small jars or bladders properly prepared, the smaller the better, as the lard will not keep well after it has once been opened. Tie up securely, and store for use. Pork, Leg of, as Goose (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—Parboil a leg of pork, and take oft' the skin. Make a stuffing as follows:—Mince two ounces of onion very finely; if the strong flavour is objected to, the onions may be pre- viously boiled. Mix with the onions half a chopped apple, four ounces of bread-crumbs, half a dozen chopped sage-leaves, an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg. Make a slit in the knuckle, put the stuffing into it, and fasten securely. Put the pork down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. Half fin hour before it is taken up, sprinkle over it a stivonry powder made of two table-spoonfuls of brcad-cTumbs mixed with one table-spoon- ful of poAvdered sage, and a little pepper nnd salt. Do not baste the meat after the powder