1167 Appendix. lous care each time they are used. Enamel-lined iron pans are now much used for preserving. They are much cheaper than copper or " brass " pans, and will last for years if carefully used. If put upon the stove empty, or if over-heated, the enamel will crack. Probable cost of preserving-pan, 10 inches across, 12s. 6d. ; the price increasing with the size. Enamel-lined iron pans will be less than half the cost. Pudding Cloths.—Pudding cloths should be kept scrupulously clean, otherwise they may impai-t an unpleasant taste to the pudding. As soon as they are done with they should be thrown into water, and allowed to soak until they are washed. Very hot water, but no soap, should be used in washing them. They should be dried out of doors, and kept in a dry dean place. Pudding cloths are sometimes made of thick soft cord, loosely knitted, and these mark the pudding boiled in them, and give it a pretty appearance. In order to prevent a pudding which is boiled in a cloth from sticking to the bottom of a saucepan, a plate or saucer should be placed underneath it. Puddings which are steamed do not need to be boiled in a cloth. They are put into a well-greased basin or mould with a jDiece of buttered kitchen paper laid over them. The basin may then be placed in a stewpan with boiling water two inches deep. Steamed puddings are lighter than boiled ones, but they take longer to cook. Ranges, Kitchen. — The " range"—where shall we draw the line between the long rows of hot plates, (fee, that are necessary in the grand hotel and the modest little grate in the ai-tisan's cottage, or indeed the fire inclosed between a few open bricks which support the soldier's cooking-pot containing perchance the hastily- cut steak from the flank of the warrior's steed 1 To be pi-actical, however, we need seek neither the camp nor the court, but rather the ordinary dwellings of those whom the large majority of the recipes we have published are chiefly intended to benefit, and the very first point that it is necessary for us to consider is the advantages and disadvantages of open and shut stoves. One of the chief points in favour of all close ranges is that there is no fear of any of the dishes cooked being sent to table smoky. Secondly, a far gi-eater number of saucepans can be kept hot on a close range than on an open fire, and it is far more easy to regulate the heat. Too often in open fireplaces when saucepans are left for a short time they will boil over. Thirdly, in using close ranges the outsides of the saucepans do not get covered with soot, as is necessarily the case in open fireplaces. The best close ranges are also fitted up with a rack over the top for warming ])lates. In roasting joints care should be taken that a current of aii- passes through the oven or roaster while the meat is cooking, as by this means that peculiar gi-easy flavour detected too often in meat that has been baked will be avoided. Another purpose to which close stoves can be turned is that of an ironing stove, and undoubtedly close stoves for ironing purposes generally, but especially for heating irons, possess enormous advantages over open gi-ates. There is one point in connection with stoves to which I would call particular attention, and that is the boiler. This latter indispensable part of every stove should always be made to fili itself, and also should be made so that it can be easily got at for the jjurpose of being cleaned. In shut stoves it will generally be found that the boiler is more accessible than in the old-fashioned open grates, and this is another important advantage possessed by the close oven. When boilers do not fill themselves they are very apt to be forgotten by even careful servants, and are almost certain to be neglected by the average nin of servants in the present day. You will therefore run the following risk :—The boiler will get empty and then hot. The servant finding it empty will take a can of cold water, and without thinking of the risk she is i-unning fill the boiler just as It w, thereby cracking it probably, and doing some pounds' worth of mischief A^ain you have a still greater risk to run. Supposing the fire to have been very fierce?and the boOer to have got red-hot, then the water when poured into the boiler by a careless servant gets quickly converted into steam, and an explosion occurs that may be senous An explosion from this very cause occurred many years back at a house in Gower Street.