( 914 ) SPI BPI served in a shapo with poachod eggs laid upon it. It is to bo hud during tlu; spring and autunm. Turnip-tops, dandoliou leaves, boet- root-topB, and oven nettles, are sonietiuies served as a substitute fur it. Spinach, Boiled (common English method).—-Take two pailfuls of spinach, young and freshly-gathered. Pick away the stalks, Wash the leaves in several waters, Hft them out with the hands that the sand or grit may remain at the bottom, and drain them on a sieve. Put them into a saucepan with a good sprinkling of salt and the water which clings to the leaves, and let them boil until tender. Take the spinach up, drain it, and press it well; chop it small, and put it into a clean saucepan with a little pepper and salt and a slice of fresh butter. Stir it well for five minutes. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with fried sippets. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Spinach. Cream.—Break the yolks of four eggs in a bowl, and free them from specks. Beat them weU, and stir into them the third of a pint of hot milk and half a pint of thick cream. Sweeten the mixture, and put it into a saucepan with half a stick of cinnamon. Stir it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken; add half a quarter of a pint of spinach juice, and stir it again till it is equally coloured. Slice some sponge biscuits, put them into a glass dish, pour the cream upon them, and lay thin strips of candied fruit on the siuTface. Serve cold. If preferred, macaroons or preserved oranges may be substituted for the sponge biscuits, or the cream may be served in custard glasses. To prepare tlie spinach juice, sec Spinach, Green, for Colouring. Time, a few minutes to simmer the custard. Probable cost, about 38. Sufficient for a moderate-sized sup- per-dish. Spinach, Croustades of. —Cut some bread into the shape of hearts, and slit tliem all round, then fry them in butter. Arrange the hearts in the form of a rosette. Nejtt cut a round of bread, which slit in the same way, and place it in the centre over th<; pointnof the hearts. Fry them till they an; of a fim- bj own, then cut out thcj interior, tjike out all the crumb, and fiU the space left with spimich, either with cream or con8omm6. Spinach, Dandelion-leaves dressed like.—When spinach is out of wjason, dande- lion leaves may be suljstituted for it. The young leaves only should ha used, and they may bo boiled and served just like spinach. As they shrink very much m boiling, a large quantity will be required for a moderate-sized dish. Turnip-tops, beetroot-to])8, and even young nettles, as we have remarked ekewhere, may all be used as substitutes for spinach. Spinach, Dressed.—Pick the leaves from the stem, wash them well, and throw them intfj a large saucepan, and salt them. If old, the spinach must have a little boiling water with it. Boil fast for ten minutes, then strain on the back of a sieve or colander ; press the spinach in a napkin, and squeeze out all the water that remains. Put the spinach into a stewpan with a little butter, pepper and salt, and about ten minutes before serving place it on the stove to be made hot; add about half a cupful of cream, pile the spinach on the dish, and send to table. " When spinach," says M. Ude, " is dressed to put under meat, whether fricandeau or sweet- bread, &c., it must be more highly seasoned than when dressed for entremets, and a little more liquid, as it is like sauce. Spinach is often used in sweet dishes to dye the almonds or make the green colour of the marbled biscuit. Pound in the mortar some of the spinach, and squeeze the juice out of it by pressing it through a towel; put the liquor into a small stewpan, and place the stewpan in a hot water bath to poach. When the green is settled at the bottom of the stewpan, drain it through a silk sieve, and use it for almonds, or whatever else requires green." " Spinach, English."—Garden patience is known in Germany as English spinach. It was formerly much cultivated in this country, but is now neglected. Spinach, French mode of Dressing. —Prepare the spinach exactly as in Spinach with Gravy. When it has been boiled, di*ained, soaked in cold water, squeezed dry, and chopped small, dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, and stir the spinach in it over the fire tiU it is hot and dry. Add to it gradually two or three spoonfuls of boiling cream. Add a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar and a little salt, and stir the mixture over the fire till the moisture is absorbed; then serve the spinach very hot. Garnish the dish with fried sippets, or freshly-baked pieces of puff paste cut into fancy shapes. Time, ten minutes to boil the spinach. Probable cost, spinach, 3d. to 6d. i)er pound. Spinach Fritters.—Take spinach and boil it thorouglily, drain it well, mincv, and add some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and cinna- mon, all pounded. Add as much cream oi yolks and whites of eggs as will make thf preparation of the consistence of batter; sovlg