SHA ( 863 ) SHA Shallot Gravy, for Broiled Cutlets, —Peel and mince half a dozen sliallots. Put them into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, and a little coarse pepper, and let them boil very gently for five minutes. Pour over them a quai-ter of a pint of bro\vn gravy, add a small lump of sugar, let the sauce boil again until the gravy is pleasantly flavoured, and strain it into a tureen. If liked, a clove and a little piece of mace may be boiled with the shallot. Time, altogether, twelve to fifteen minutes. Shallot Pickle.—Shallot pickle is pre- pared in the same way as garlic pickle, that is to say, as follows:—Steep one quarter of a pound of ginger in strong salt and water for five days. At the end of that time cut it into slices, and di-y it in the sun; put it into a large stone jar with a gallon of the best white-wine vinegar. Peel one pound of garlic or shallot, salt it well, and let it stand in the salt for thi-ee days. Wipe it, and dry it in the sun, then put it into the pickle. Add also to the pickle a quarter of a pound of long pepper steeped in salt and water and well dried, one pound of bruised mustard-seed, and a quarter of a pound of tur- meric. Shake these ingredients well in the jar, and add anything that it is desirable to pickle as it comes into season, salting and drying it pre- viously in the sun. When completed, the pickle should be kept for a year or two. When that time has expired, it will be found to be excellent. The flavour of shallots may be obtained by placing them in a bottle of cold vinegar : in a month they will be foimd to have imparted their flavoiu- to the vinegar. Shallot Sauce, for Boiled Mutton, Poultry, Chops, and Steaks. — Mince foui" shallots, lay them on the comer of a napkin, pour cold water over them, and press them with a cloth till dry. Put them into a Sciucepan with a quarter of a pint of stock, add & little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently till they are tender. Mix with them a quarter of a pint of good melted butter, and stir the sauce again over the fire, but do not •allow it to boil up. Add a dessert-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and serve. Time, altogether, a quarter of an hour. Shallot Sauce, for Tripe, &c.—Skin and mince twelve shallots, and add, if liked, a little piece of garlic the size of a pea. This addition, however, is sometimes objected to. Put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh "butter, and also a tea-spoonful of finely-grated horseradish, a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice, and a little salt, cayenne, and mixed mus- tard. Stir these ingredients quickly over a brisk fire for five minutes; add gradually a quarter of a pint of milk, and simmer the sauce a few minutes longer. Lift the saucepan from the fire, and let its contents cool for two minutes. Stir into the sauce the yolk of an egg beaten up with a quarter of a pint of cream or milk, and whisk it over the fire for a minute or two, but on no account allow it to boil; serve very hot. Time, altogether, a quarter of an hour. Shallot Sauce, Mild.—Pare four or six shallots, and throw them into boiling water slightly salted. Let them boil five minutes; di-ain them, and boil them again in fresh boiling water: repeat this until the shallots are tender. Drain them, mince them, and stir them into a pint of good melted butter or white sauce. Let all simmer together a few minutes longer, and serve. Some cooks put an inch of lemon-rind with the shallots. Time to boil the shallots, about a quarter of an hour. Shallot Vinegar.—Take four ounces of shallots that are fully ripe without being at all acrid. Skin and mince them, put them into a bottle, and pour over them a quart of best pickling vinegar. Let them infuse for ten days, shaking the bottle every day. Strain the vinegar, filter it, bottle in small bottles, cork these securely, and store for use. This j)re- paration will prove most valuable for flavouring soups, sauces, hashes, &c. It will keep for a long time. Time, ten days to infuse. Shallots are in season during the months of July, August, I and September. Shallot Vinegar (another way).—Skin five or six ounces of shallots, and put them into I a jar with a quart of good vinegar ; keep the jar closely corked for three weeks, then strain for use. If a stronger flavour be desired, use more shallots. Garlic vinegar is made in the same way, only using half the quantity of garlic to one quart of vinegar. Time, from two to three weeks. Shallot Wine.—Shallot wine is a pre- paration largely used and highly esteemed. When an acid taste is not requii-ed, and, con- sequently, when shallot vinegar would be objected to, shallot wine wiU flavour a hash or ragout with onion most pleasantly, and the wine extracts the flavour of shallots even better than vinegar does. Skin, mince, and bruise four ounces of shallots; put them into a bottle with a pint of sherry, and let them infuse ten days or a fortnight; straia the Hquor, and bottle for use. When a very strong flavouring is desired, pour the pint of sherry over three ounces of shallots; let them infuse ten days; pour off the liquor, and put it into a clean bottle with three ounces of fresh shallots, skinned and bruised. Infuse ten days longer, strain, and bottle for use. Time, ten days or more. Shallot Wine.—Put four ounces of shallots, after having peeled and bruised them, into a bottle, add a pint of sherry ; look at the wine in about a fortnight, and if sufficiently flavoured strain it off; but if not, add two ovmces more shallots to the wine, and half a tea-spoonful of cayeime. Shake the bottle occasionally, but let it rest three or four days before straining, so that the wine may be a good colour and not thick. This wine is very useful in all large culinary establishments, as it imparts an agreeable flavour without any acidity. Time to prepare, from ten to twenty days. Probable cost, 8d. without wine. Shallots, Pickled.—Take as much vino- gar as will 1)0 required to cover the shallots, and boil it with spices in the following propor- tions. To each quart of vinegar put a small blade of mace, two cloves, four allspice, two grains of cayenne, a salt-spoonful of black peppercorns, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Strain