( 699 ) POO FOB quickly until it is done enough. Serve imme- diately. Send toasted sippets to table on a separate dish. If, instead of water, the liquid in which meat has been boiled can be used, the soup will, of course, be much improved. Suf- ficient for five pints of soup. Probable cost. Id. per pint. Pool- Man's Soup (anotherway).—Slice two onions, and cut four ounces of bacon into dice. Fry these in two ounces of good beef dripping until they are lightly browned. Add a large carrot, a turnip, a leek, and three or four outer sticks of celery, aU cut into thin pieces. Fry for a few minutes longer. Pour in six quarts of water. Let the liquid boil, then throw in a little more than a pint of split peas, which have been soaked for several hours in cold water. Simmer the soup gently until the peas are re- duced to a pulp. Press through a sieve. Eetum the soup to the saucepan, mix with it two table- spoonfuls of salt, one of sugar, one of dried mint, half a table-spoonful of pepper, and half a poimd of flour mixed smoothly with a pint of water. BoU half an hour longer, and serve. If preferred, the mint can be served separately at table, and taken or not according to indi- vidual taste. Time, varying with the freshness of the peas, usually about four hours. Suf- ficient for twelve or fourteen people. Probable cost, Id. per quart. Poor Man's Soup, Dr. Kitchiner's. —Wash a quarter of a pound of Scotch barley in two or three waters. Drain it, and put it into a large stewpan with four ounces of sliced onion and five quarts of water. Boil the liquid, skim it, and let it simmer gently for an hour, then pour it out. Put into the pan two ounces of clear beef dripping and two ounces of fat bacon cut into dace. When these are melted, stir in four ounces of oatmeal, and rub these to a smooth paste with the back of a wooden spoon. When well mixed, add the barley liquid very gradually, first by spoonfuls. Stir frequently imtU it boils. Season with salt, jwpper, and a little allspice; boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve. If hked, the flavour of this soup can be varied by frying a larger portion of onion or a little carrot and celery with the bacon. Time, two and a half to three hours. Probable cost, Id. per quart. Suf- ficient for a dozen people. Pope, or Ruffe—This is a small fresh- water fish,_ closely allied to the perch. It is to be met with in all the rivers and canals of England, its favourite haunt being slow shady streams. It greatly resembles the perch iu flavour, being firm, delicate, and well-tasted, and is excellent broiled in buttered paper. Pope's Posset.—Blanch eight ounces of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones, and pound thom in a mortar with a few drops of w-ater to prevent them oiling. Put them into a pint of cold water, and bring the liquid slowly to a boU. Strain, and mix vnth it a bottle of white wine boiling hot. Add sugar to taste, and serve. Time, about half an hour to pro- pare. Sufficient for a quart jug. Porcupine Meat (we Meat, Porcupine). Porcupine Pudding.—Wash a quarter of a pound of the best Carolina rice in two or three waters. Drain it, and put it into a stew- pan with a pint or more of cold milk, a little sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon, or any- other flavouring that may be preferred. Boil very gently until the rice is quite tender and has absorbed all the milk. The time required will depend in a great measure upon the quality of the rice, but fully an hour should be allowed for it. When it is quite dry, turn it out, beat it well with a spoon to a smooth paste, mix vnth it three weU beaten eggs, and turn it into a well-oiled mould. Cover it, and steam it by placing it on a plate turned upside down in a saucepan with about three inches of water round it. Whilst it is steaming, blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, cut them into shreds, and throw them into cold water to preserve their colour. Turn the pudding out upon a dish, stick the almonds all over it, and pour round it a pint and a half of nicely-flavoured custard. Time to steam, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 9d. exclusive of the custard. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Pork.—Pork, more than any other meat, requires to be chosen with the greatest care. The pig, from its gluttonous habits, is particu- larly liable to disease, and if it is killed and its flesh eaten when in an unhealthy condition, those who partake of it wiU probably have to pay dearly for their indulgence. It is gene- rally understood that dairy-fed pork is the best. When it is possible, therefore, it is always safest to obtain pork direct from some farm where it has been fed and killed. When this cannot be done, it should either be purchased from a thoroughly respectable and reliable person or dispensed with altogether. Pork is best in cold weather. It is in season from November to March. It shoiild be avoided during the summer months. The fat should be white and firm, the lean finely grained, and the skin thin and cool. If the skm is thick, the pig is old; if it is clammy, it is stale; if any kernels are to be seen in the fat, the pig was diseased at the time it was killed. Pork should not be allowed to hang more than a day or two before it is cooked, as it will not keep unless it be salted. If cooked quite fresh, however, it will be hard. The head, heart, kidneys, liver, &c., should be cooked as soon as possible. Care should be taken that pork is thoroughly cooked, as it is most indigestible when under-dressed. A porker, or pig which is to be cut up for fresh pork, is generally kiUed when it is from six to nine months old. A bacon pig is allowed to grow older and bigger. The manner of cutting up the pig varies in diif orent parts. A porker is generally divided as follows :— 1. Spare- rib. 2. Hand. 3. BeUy, or spring. Eoasted. To be cooked whilst fresh. Slightly salted and boUod. Gene- rally too fat for roasting. Slightly sjilted and boiled, or salted for bacon. lOd. to lO^d. per pound. 8d. to 9d. per pound. 9d. to lOd. per pound.