( 780 ) RUS BUS pleasantly tastod tliau that iiut. Some British travoUers have rofusod it, bcilioving it to he deleterious; but wo can assure thoin that thore ifs no necessity for starving wlien a dish of rush- j nut can be procured, and that it is not only I safe, but, when properly prepared, an agreeable article of diet. It might bo introduced into Britain with little trouble. Rusk Cake.—Crush a quarter of a pound of rusks to powder, and pass them through a colander. Boat the yolks of seven eggs till light, and add six ounces of powdered white sugar, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, three j cloves powdered, and three ounces of blanched and pounded almonds. Beat the ingredients briskly together for twenty minutes. Add the powdered rusks, a table-spoonful of strained j lomon-juice, and, lastly, the whites of aU the I eggs -whisked to a firm froth. Beat the mix- ture thoroughly, put it into a buttered mould, and bake immediately. In order to ascertain whether or not the cake is done enough, try it with a skewer in the ordinary way, but do not do this until the cake looks firm, as it will be all tlie nicer if it is not moved about during the baking. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Rusk Pudding.—Take three ounces of thin rusks. Spread a little jam between every two, and press them closely together. Arrange them neatly in a buttered mould, and pour over them a custard made with a pint of milk (or half milk and half cream), the yolks of four eggs, and a little sugar and flavouring. Let the rusks soak for an hour, then steam the pudding, and when done enough serve on a hot dish with wine or arrowroot sauce poured roimd it. Time to steam the pudding, about two houi's. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rusk Pudding (another way).—Sweeten a pint of milk, and flavour it with lemon- rind or cinnamon. Arrange three or four rusks in a buttered basin, and pour the milk I over them; let them soak for half an houi-. r "Whisk two eggs, and beat them up with the rusks; then add a pinch of salt and a slice of fresh butter. Lay a buttered paper over the iiasin, which must be quite fuU, tie it in a floured cloth, and plunge it into fast-boiling water. Boil it quickly until done enough, ^love it about two or three times during the first half of boiling. When done enough, turn it upon a hot dish, and serve with sweet sauce or wine sauce. If liked, candied peel, stoned raisins, or washed currants may be mixed with the pudding. Time to boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rusks.—No. 1. Put two pounds of flour into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt and six ounces of powdered sugar (if the rusks are intended for cheese the sugar should bo omitted). Dissolve four ounces of butter in half a pint of hot milk. Add six wcll-bcaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast, and with this liquor work the flour into a smooth dough. Cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When light knead it, and divide into small cakes the size of an orange. Lay those closely together in a buttered pan and bake in a brisk oven. Wlien done enough," 4 take them out, break them in halves, and I pLico them again in the oven to got crisp | on the other side. Wlien cold keep them I closely packed in tin canisters. Time to bake ■ altogetlier about half an hour. No. 2. Warm I half a pint of milk, and stir into it two table- I spoonfuls of good yeast. Put a pound of flour ■ into a bowl, and mix with it a i>inch of salt and ■ three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Make I a hollow in the flour, but not so deep as to lay ■ bare the bottom of the bowl, and stir in the ■ yeast and milk to make a thin batter. Shred ■ a quarter of a pound of butter into the flour, ■ cover the bowl, and leave it in a warm place I until the batter rises in bubbles. Work all I lightly together until the dough no longer ™ sticks to the hand, then let it rise again until the surface cracks. Divide the dough into rolls six inches long and two broad, lay these side by side on a buttered tin, and set them before the flre for a few minutes to rise. Bake in a quick oven. When done enough, tear them into halves, and put them again into the oven till they are crisp. A table-spoonful of aniseed may be worked into the rusks, if liked, and they wiU then be good for infants' food. No. 3. Stir two ounces of butter in half a pint of warm milk imtil dissolved, add a table-spoonful of yeast and two weU-beaten eggs. Put a potmd of flour into a bowl, and mix with it a heaped table-spoonful of pow- dered sugar. Make a hole in the centre, pour in the eggs and milk, and beat in as much flour from the side as will make a thin batter. Sprinkle a little flour over this, cover the bowl with a cloth, and leave the preparation to rise until the bubbles show themselves through the flour; this wiU be in about an hour. Knead the whole into a firm dough, divide it into small cakes a little larger than an egg, and let these rise on the baking-tins for another hour. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven, and when cool put them in a warm screen to dry for half an hour. Store in tins in a dry place. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Rusks (another way).—Take four eggs, half a pint each of new milk and wami water, quarter of a pound of melted-butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, and three table-spoonfuls of yeast. I Beat these ingredients together with as much I flour, added gradually, as will make a very light I paste. Let it rise for half an hour before the fire, I then add a little more flour, and form into small I cakes or loaves five or six inches wide; flatten the I cakes, bake them moderately, and when cold cut I them into slices the size of rusks, and put them I into the oven to brown a little. This is a nice I tea-cake to eat hot, or, with carraways, to eat I cold. I Rusks (another way).—Take four poimds I of Hour, six ounces of butter, four ounces of I loaf sugar, and one quart of milk. P'erment I and make into a dough as for buns, weigh it in I ; pieces of one pound, one pound and a half, or I ' two pounds each, and make it into long even I j rolls five or six inches in circumference; let I ^ these be qiiite straight and square at the ends, I place them on buttered tins, so that they may I i;