PER C 837 ) PER ten minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, j varying with the price of the truffles. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Periwinkle.—Littor 'ma lUtorea is pre-emi- | uently the periwinkle of the British coasts, j Immense quantities are brought to the London market, and form a considerable article of food among the poorer classes. After being boiled, the animal is picked out of the shell with a pin. Periwinkles, Boiled.—Wash the peri- winkles in several waters, and then let them soak in plenty of fresh water for half an hour; when that is done, wash them again. These precau- tions will be fomad necessary to cleanse the fish from the mud and sand which adhere to them. Before boiling, shake them up to make them withdraw into their shells. Put them into a saucepan, and cover with boiling sea-water that has stood a little while to settle, and then been poured off from the sediment. Boil quickly for twenty minutes, and serve, accompanied by brown bread and butter. Probable cost, 2d. a pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Perricot.—To make this liqueur take four ounces each of the kernels of apricots and nec- tarines ; mash them in a mortar along with eight ounces of peach-leaves and half that quantity of black cui-rant-leaves; add a drachm of beaten cinnamon and a drachm of mace. Put all these ingredients into five quarts of prepared spirit, let them infuse for a week, then draw off about two quarts, or, if it runs clear, five pints, with a gentle heat. Perry and Cider.—Those are fermented beverages, prepared from the juice of pears and apples. They are not usually reckoned among the wines, but they belong to that class of beverages as much as those obtained from cui-- rants, gooseberries, and other fruits. Both are of ancient date : Pliny tells us that they were made by the Komans in Italy. There are many varieties of pears suited for making perry. In Gloucestershire the Tinton squash is in the highest esteem; it is an early fruit, and remarkable for the tenderness of its flesh. The perry obtained from it is pale and sweet, yet uncommonly fine, and of a strong body. The Oldfield pear is another favom-ite ; it yields a finely-flavoured liquor. The Bar- land pear of Worcestershire is in high repute, as is also the red pear. The best pears for perry, or, at least, the kinds which hitherto have been deemed the fittest for making the liquor, are so _ excessively tart and harsh, that no one can think of eating them as fruit: even hungry swine will not feed on them. All pears which possess colour and richness are capable of making perry, but a good perry pear requires an assemblage of qualities which are not often met with in the same fruit. " It must contain a large proportion of sugar, or its juice can never possess sufficient strength; and unless it be at the same time astringent, the liquor produced from it will be acetous when- ever it ceases to be saccharine; in the latter Htate it will agree with few constitutions, in the former with none. The juice of the best perry pears, according to one authority, ' is so harsh and rough as to occasion a long-continued, heat and ii-ritation in the throat when the fruit is attempted to be eaten; yet by being simply pressed from the pulp, it becomes rich and sweet, without more roughness than is agree- able to almost every palate.' This circumstance, though extraordinary, does not stand alone in the vegetable world; there are many cases where similar changes take place with acrid vegetable substances." To affox'd perry in the greatest perfection, the pear must be in a certain state of maturity : it should be ripe without being either mellow or decaying. The produce of the same tree ripens very irregularly; the planter must therefore have a considerable number of each kind he plants, or he will rarely have a suffi- cient quantity of fruit ready to be ground at the same time. Even when the pears have fallen spontaneously from the trees, a fourth at least of some kinds wiU be found immature or decaying, and quite unfit for making fine perry. These ought to be separated from the rest-, though they rarely or never are. To speak now of the apples required for cider : no juice can be depended on for making a good liquor that does not possess at the same time body and flavour; the former depends on the juice contained in the pulp or flesh of the fruit, and the latter on the juice contained in the external skin or peel, and in the seeds or pips. The most agi-eeable apples to the palate are those which abound in a jixice at once sweet and acidulous, whereas those which suit best for cider have the juice both sweet and acerb, with little mixtui-e of acid. Hence the best fruits for cider manufacture, with few excep- tions, are too astringent to be in demand for table use. Perry and cider are obtained from their respective fruits pretty much in the same way. To describe the process of making the one, wiU enable the reader to understand how to make the other. We shall describe, then, the manu- facture of cider, that being decidedly the most popular liquor. " Cider is manufactuxed," says a writer in the English Cyclopeedia," with very rude machinery, by the following process:—The apples are thrown into a circular stone trough, usually about eighteen feet in diameter, called the chase, round which the rutmer, a heavy circular stone, is turned by one or sometimes two horses. When the fruit has been ground until the rind and the core are so completely reduced that a handful of ' must,' when squeezed, wiU all pass without lumps between the fingers, and the maker sees from the white spots that are in it that the pips have been broken, a square horse- hair cloth is spread under a screw-press; and some of the must is poured with pails upon the hair, the edges and comers of which are foldec*. inwards so as to prevent its escape. Ten or twelve of these hairs are piled and filled one upon the other, and then surmounted with a frame of thick boards. [This is the process in Hereford district. In Devonshire a lever press is used, and 'reed,' unthrashed straw, is placed in layers in the place of hairs. The method used in the South of France for expressing oil from olives is identically the same]. Upon this