SIP ( 878 ) SIM it on a geutlo firo, and as soon as it begiuH to heat, diBcoiitimio stirring it, and leave it quite atill. Let it boil gently for five minutes; add half a puit of marasehino, and siunui'r three oi- four minutes longer. Take the saueepan from the lire, and let the pre^jaratiuu remain un- touched for a quarter of an liuur; then strain it through a jolly-bag till it is quite clear. Tut it into a mould which has been soaked till the last moment in cold water, and hiy it in a cool place to set. Time, ten minutes to boil the jelly. Probable cost, exclusive of the maras- chmo, 3s. Sufidcient for about three pints of jeUy. Simnel Cakes.—" It is an old custom," says l)r. Chiimbers, in his " Book of Days," " in Shropshire and Herefordshire, and espe- cially at iShrewsbury, to make during Lent and Easter, and also at Christmas, a sort of i-ich and expensive cakes, which are called Simnel Cakes. They ai-e raised cakes, the crust of ■which is made of fine flour and water, with sufficient saffron to give it a deep yellow colour, and the interior is filled with the materials of a very rich plum cake, with plenty of candied lemon-peel and other good things. They are made up very stiff, tied up in a cloth, and boiled for several hours, after which they are brushed over with egg, and then baked. When ready for sale, the crust is as hard as if made of wood — a circumstance which has given rise to various stories of the manner in which they have at times been treated by persons to whom they were sent as presents, and who had never seen one before : one ordering his Simnel to be boiled to soften it, and a lady taking hers for a footstool. They are made of different sizes, and, as may be sup- posed from the ingredients, are rather expensive, some large ones selling for as much as half a guinea, or even, we believe, a guinea, while smaller ones may be had for half-a-crown. " The usage of these cakes is evidently one of great antiquity. It appears from one of the epigrams of the poet Herrick that, at the beginning of the seventeenth century, it was the custom at Gloucester for young people to carry Siinnels to theii- mothers on Mid-Lent or Mothering Sunday. It appears also from some other writers of this age, that these Simnels, like the modem ones, were boiled as well as baked." Simple Cakes.—Rub four oimces of fresh butter into half a pound of biscuit flour. Add a pinch of salt, three table-spoonfuls of finely- sifted sugar, and a well-beaten fresh egg. Roll the pastry out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into fancy cakes with a cutter, and bake these upon tins in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, aibout twenty minutes. Simple Soup.—Cut into very small pieces half a pound of turnips, half a poimd of cari'ots, quarter of a pound of onions, three or four sticks of celery, and a lettuce. Put these ingredients into a saucepan which has a very closely-fitting lid with four ounces of dissolved butter, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, if liked. Cover the saucepan, and steam its contents over a gentle fire for twenty minutes. Pour upon the vege- tables three pints of stock made from bones; let this boil, and carefully remove the scum as it nses. Add ii pint of freshly-shelled green peas, and snnuier all gently together for thiee hours. Rub the preparation througli a sieve, Ijoil it up once uiore, add pepper and salt, and serve. Tmie, foui' hours. Probable cost, 8d. per piui. SuUieient for eight or nine persons. Simple Soup (anotlier way).—Take three quarts of good gravy. Put it into a saucepan with two cariots, tkree or four turnips, thrci- or four potatoes, some celery, lettuce, endive, parsley, and a piece of butter, with a Uttle flour. Stew till the vegetables become quite tender, so as to permit them to be rubbed through a sieve, after which let them be put to the soup. Stew again for about a quarter of an hour, and season to taste. If too strong, add a little water. Singe, To (term used in cookery).—To singe poultry or game is to bum off the hairs which remain after the bird is plucked. The most usual way of doing this is to pass a piece of lighted writing-paper over the body of the bird till the desired end is attained. The best way is to pass the plucked bird over a Ughted spirit-lamp. When performing the operation care should be taken not to blacken the bird. Singhara, or Water Nuts.—The large seeds of Trapa bicornis, a native of China, and of Trapa bispinosa and natans, species indi- genous to India, are sweet and eatable, and the aquatic plants which furnish them are hence an extensive article of cultivation. In Cashmere and other parts of the East they are common food, and are known under the name of Singhara nuts. From 90,000 to 120,000 loads of this nut are yielded annually by the lake of Ooler alone. The nut abounds in fecula. In China the kemel is used as an article of food, being ro.asted or boiled like the potato. Sippets for Garnishing Dishes.— Ordinary sippets are simply made by cutting stale bread into slices the third of an inch thick, toasting these on both sides to a bright brown, cutting them into small three-cornered pieces, and placing them round the dish. "^Tien properly made, they are fried in hot fat imtil brown and crisp, instead of being toasted, and are then drained and dried for use. In order to make them stick to the dish, make a paste with the whisked white of an egg beaten up with a little flour; brush the under part of the sippet with the paste, and stick it on the dish. If the latter is very hot, the sippets will not adhere. Sippets for Invalids.—Cut a slice of stale bread. Toast it on both sides to a bright brown colour; cut it into small shapes, and lay these side bj' side on a dish. Pour upon them as much strong beef, mutton, or veal gravy, perfectly freed from fat, as they will absorb. Sprinkle a little salt over, and sen'c. Sip- pets thus simply prepared are often enjoyed by invalids who cmnot partiike of fresh meat. Sippets, Superlative.—Cut slices Uie third of an inch thick from a stale loaf. Tnin away the crust, lay the br&id on a dish, and