POR (612) POR a pound and a quarter of fat pork and a pound and a quarter of lean pork. Add throe ounccH of white popper, one ounce of salt, a doHSort- spoonful of powdered sago, a pinch of powdered mace, and a pinch of cloves. Or mince finely two pounds of loan pork and a pound and a half of the inward fat of the pig. Add the crumb of a penny roll which has boon soaked in cold water and pressed quite dry, and a seasoning of popper, salt, powdered sage, grated nutmeg, and lemon thyme. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Or mince finely one pound of pork, fat and lean together. Add one pound of linely-shrod beef suet, one pound of lean veal, half a pound of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a small nutmeg grated, six or seven youn^ sage-loavos cut small, or a tea-spoonful of dried and powdered sage, two tea-spoonfuls of sjilt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a pinch of powdered savory, a pinch of powderedmarjoram, and the rind of half a small lemon cut small. Mix thoroughly, and put the meat into skins. Or mince finely six pounds of pork, fat and lean together; add half a tea-spoonfxil of pounded sage, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, a tea-spoonful of ground allspice, an ounce of salt, and half an ounce of white pepper. In making sausage meat it must be remembered that it is most important to keep out all pieces of bone, sinew, and skin. If a larger quantity of the meat has been mixed than is required for immediate use, what is left may be packed closely in a perfectly dry jar, tied tightly with bladder, and kept in a cold place till wanted.. Probable cost, pork, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Pork Sausages, Dressed.—Pork sau- sages may be either baked, broiled, boiled, or fried. The usual way of cooking is to fry them : the best way is to bake them. To fry them :— Put the sausages into a frying-pan over a clear fire with a little piece of butter in the pan to keep them from burning. Roll and turn them about that they may be equally cooked. The time required will depend upon the size of the sausages. If large, they will need twenty minutes; if small, ten or fifteen minutes will be enough. To bake sausages:—Put them in a tin in a single layer, and place them in a moderate oven. Turn them over when they are half done, that they may be equally browned all over. The advantage of cooking sausages in this way is that they get cooked through, and are consequently much more wholesome. Time, one hour to one hour and a half. To broil sausages:—Prick smaU sausages on both sides to keep them from bursting, and broil them till they are done enough. Serve on a hot disli. They will require from eight to twelve minutes. To boil sausages:—Plunge them into boiling water, let them boil up, draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer gently for half an hour. Pork sausages should be served very hot, either on fresh toast or round a mound of mashed potatoes. Brown-sauce, apple-sauce, or tomato-sauce may be sent to table with them. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Pork Sausages for Eating Cold.— Put two pounds of pork, fat and lean together, and two pounds of lean beef into a pickle for ten days {see Pork, Pickled). Take the meat out. waah, drain, and dry it, mince it finely, season with a littlo black popper, salt, and allBpice, mix thoroughly, and put it into skinu. Tie the ends securely, wrap the sausages in one fold of muslin, and lumg thetn in smoke, as hams are hung, imtil they turn red. When wanted, tlirow them into boiling water, lot them simmer gently until done enough, let them get (;old, and serve cut into tliin slices. Time to l>oil, hall an hour. I'robable cost, Is. 2d. per pound. Pork Sausages without Skins.— Prepare the sausages according to the directions ah-eady given {see Pork Sausages); and when the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, bind them together with two or three weU-beaten eggs. Make them into small rolls, egg and broad-crumb them, and fry them over a cleai- fire vmtil they are nicely bro-wned. Send good brown gravy to table with them. Time to fry, ton to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. por pound. Pork Saveloys.—Take three pounds of tender pork free from skin and sinew; rub it well with half an ounce of saltpetre and eight ounces of common salt. Leave it for three or four days, and turn and rub it every day. Mince finely, and mix with it a heaped tea- spoonful of white pepper, half a dozen young sage-leaves chopped small, and half a pound of finel3''-grated bread-crumbs. Mix these ingre- dients thoroughly. Fill the skins which have been prepared according to the directions given in the recipe for making pork sausages, tie them securely at both ends, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pork, Scambled (an American dish).— Soak a pound of salt pork to freshen it. Drain it, cut it into pieces about an inch square; fry these in hot fat, and move them about that they may be equally cooked. "VNTien they are almost done enough, stir in with them from six to twelve weU-beaten eggs, and beat aU quickly together. When the eggs are set, turn the mixture upon a hot dish, and send boiled, baked, or roasted potatoes to table with it. If the pork gives out a good deal of fat whilst it is being fried, pour it off before dishing the meat. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, pork, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pork, Shoulder of, Marinaded (a German mode of cooking).—Lay a shoulder of pork in a deep cjirthen pan, pour over it half a pint of vinegar, and put with it a dessert- spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of bruised peppercorns, half a lemon, two onions sliced, a tea-spoonful of juniper berries, half a dozen cloves, and a bay-leaf. Let the pork lie ih this pickle for five days, and turn and rub it every day. Take it up, drain it, cover it with oiled paper, and roast before a clcjir fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally with the strained ]uckle. For sauce, mix a quarter of a pint of the pickle with a quarter of a pint of cold water; add half a toa-spoonful of brown thickening, and a little popper and salt if re- quired. Serve in a tureen.