STTB ( 937 ) SUB some good gravy, is the best way of dressing ; or cut in slices and fried, as you would a veal cutlet, it eats very well. Sturgeon pickled makes a handsome winter dish for a second course." Suedoise of Apples, or Apple Hedgehog Apple Hedgehog). Suedoise of Peaches.—Boil six ounces of refined sugar in half a pint of water till it is a clear syrup. Put into this half a dozen fine ripe peaches which have been merely wiped with a soft cloth, and let them simmer very o-ently for six or eight minutes. Lift them out , carefully, pare them, split them in halves, and , let them soak for a while in half the syrup, j Into the other half throw two pounds of ripe , peaches which have been pared and split in halves, j and boil them till they form a smooth dry pulp. Add as much sugar as they require to sweeten i them pleasantly, and also a table-spoonful of , strained lemon-juice to bring out the flavour. Spread a layer of this pulp at the bottom of a , dish, arrange the peaches upon it, leaving out ^ three or four of the halves, and fill all the • empty spaces with the pulp. Stick half a j blanched peach-kernel in each peach, and pour over all the reduced syrup. Garnish the dish with a border of macaroons or ratafias, or even of candied peel stamped in fancy shapes. Pile ; the unused halves of peaches on the top of the dish, and serve. When peaches are expensive, the fruit pulp may be made of apples instead of peaches. Time to simmer the whole peaches, six to eight minutes; to boil the fruit to pulp, j from three-quarters of an hour to one hour, j Probable cost, peaches, very variable. Suf- i ficient for half a dozen persons. | Suet, Beef, for Pie-crust {see Beef Suet €or Pie-crust). Suet Crust {see Crust, Suet, for Puddings). Suet Dumpling, Plain.—It cannot be too strongly insisted upon, and mothers of families cannot be too fully persuaded that •a certain quantity of fat taken with food is absolutely necessary to health. Those who do not take it are particularly liable to con- sumption, and this is specially the case with young pcojile who are growing rapidly. To these anxious friends administer fat as a medicine in the shape of cod-liver oil, but it matters Uttle in what shape fat is taken, the effect on the system of dripping, butter, or oil being exactly the same-. Unfortunately, though one man can lead a horse to water, a hundred cannot make him drink, and it is useless to set before delicate, perhaps fanciful, persons things j from which, however nourishing and whole- { some, they turn away with dislike and loathing, j There are families in which every scrap of fat which is served to its members seated at table j is left on the plate and thrown to the cat or j into the dust-bin. This ought not to be. It ' <loes not often happen, indeed, in households ! where the members of the families are employed out of doors, but it does when their occupations are sedentary. We have no right to say an unkind word about " daintiness " if those who are confined all day long in a close in-door atmoaphere have not the sharp-set appetite of 2 E* the ploughman who hears the smgmg of the lark, and feels the freshness of the breeze from misty daybreak to ruddy sunset. Still, wo would urge those who think they can take no meat but lean to use the fat under some disguise. They akeady take it in many shapes uncon- sciously, and without thinking of it, as m broth, milk, and butter, and even in meat which they call and consider lean. The housewife, at any rate, ought to be thoroughly convinced of the o-reat impoiiance of aU kinds of fat m family dishes. She ought to see that none is wasted, to procure all she can at an economical rate, to buy not one ounce less than the usual quantity of good wholesome fat with the meat, and then so to employ it that her family shall be cheated, as it were, into taking, almost without knowing it, what is essential for their bodily welfare. One of the easiest ways of doing this is to serve fat in puddings, and amongst pud- dings of the kind one of the most excellent is suet dumpling. This is wholesome, excellent, and cheap; it may be made more or less sub- stantial, its flavour may be varied according to taste, and it can be eaten as a savoury or a sweet dish. For plain suet dumpling, the best suet is the kidney-fat of beef or veal, which can be bought separately in small quantities, and at a moderate, though, unfortunately, a gradually- increasing price. To make the dumplings, clear the suet from skin and fibre, chop it fine, and to a pound of flour put from a quarter to half a pound of chopped suet. Before putting in the suet, however, mix with the flour a pinch of salt, and, if liked, a small pinch of pepper, and if a small quantity only of suet is used, add a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Add cold water to make the mixture into a tolerably stiff dough. Divide this into balls about the size of a large orange. Flour them well. Tie each one separately and securely in a cloth which has been wrung out of boiling water and floured, and be careful to leave the dumplings room to swell. Throw them into fast-boiling water, and keep them boiling quickly until done enough. Turn them out of the cloth, and serve immediately. Jam, sugar, treacle, sweet sauce, or salt and meat-gravy may all be served with them. WTien the dumplings are to be served with the meat they may be thrown without cloth into the liquor in which the meat is boiled, and allowed to remain until done enough. Time to boil the dumplings, half to three-quarters of an hour, according to size. Probable cost, suet, lOd. per pound. SuflBcient, one dumpling for each person. Suet Dumplings, Excellent.—Shred finely six ounces of suet freed from skin and fibre. Add to it a tea-spoonful of salt, six ounces of flour, and two ounces of bread-crumbs. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Break two eggs into a bowl, whisk them well, mix with them six table-spoonfuls of milk, and stir all well together. Divide the mixture into five or six dumplings, tie these separately into cloths lightly dredged with flour, and boil them quickly until done enough. If any of these dump- lings are left, they may be cut into slices, fried in butter, and served a second time. Time to boil, three quarters of an hour to one hour,