SYL SYR ( 953 ) on the top, and keep the syllabubs in a cool place. Syllabubs under the Cow.—Take a largo china bowl—a punch bowl is the most suitiible for the purpose—put into it half a pound of lump sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, a pint of sherry, a glassful of brandy, and three-quarters of a pint of cream beaten up with white of egg. Stir the mixture briskly for a minute or two, and put a dozen ratafias into it. Take it to the dairjTnaid, and let her milk the cow into the bowl until it is quite full. Put it away, and let it remain untouched till the following day. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve. Syllabubs, Whipped.—Rub a lump of loaf sugar on the outside of a lemon, put to it half a pint of thick cream, and sweeten to taste. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a glassful of madeira wine or French brandy. Mill it to a froth with a chocolate mill, take oflE the froth as it rises, and lay it in a hair sieve. Fill one half of the glass with red wine, then lay the froth as high as possible; but take care that it is well drained in the sieve, otherwise it will mix with the wine, and the syllabub be spoiled. Syrup and Wine Sauce for Rich Sweet Puddings.—Take a quai-ter of a pint of good melted butter. Stir into this half a quarter of a pint of dissolved red-currant jelly and half a quarter of a pint of poii. Stir the sauce over the five till it is on the point of boihng, and pour it upon and around the pudding. Syrup Clarified for Jellies.—Put two pounds of refined sugar into a well-tinned saucepan with a quart of water. When the sugar is dissolved, stir in briskly the white of an egg beaten up with a spoonful of cold water. Beat the syrup thoroughly, let it boil, and remove the scum as it rises. Strain it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. Syrup Clarified for Jelly (another way).—See Jelly, Syrup Clarified for. Syrup Clarified for Keeping.—Allow half a pmt of water to a pound of refined loaf sugar, and the white of an egg to four pounds of sugar. Break up the sugar, and pour the water upon it. Stir it until (Ussolved. Beat the white of egg, and stir it into the syrup while it is still cold. Let it heat gradually, removing the scum as it rises. When per- fectly clear, strain it into a napkin, and keep it in closely-stoppered bottles for use. This syrup will keep for some weeks. If less sugar were used than the quantity named the syrup would ferment. Syrup Clarified with Isinglass.— Allow half a pint of water to each poimd of sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of Russian isinglass to six pounds of sugar. Pour the water over the sugar, and let it stand till dis- solved. Dissolve the isinglass in boiling water, and add it to the syrup. Let the mixture cool, then put it on the fire, and as the scum rises remove it. When quite clear it will be ready for use. Syrup thus prepared may be us('d for preserving fruit. Syrup, Custard and {see Custard and Syrup). Syrup for Competes.—The quantity of sugar used in preparing syrup for compotes must vary with the nature of the fruit. Very acid fruit will of course need more sugar than luscious fruit. For a good many kinds of fruit half a pound of sugar may be boiled in three- quarters of a pint of water. Syrup thus made is not intended to keep. To make it, dissolve the sugar in the water, and boil it till clear. Remove the scum as it rises. Time to boil, about a quarter of an hour. Syrup for Compotes (another way).— See Compotes, Syrup for. Syrup for Liqueurs.—Put a pint of water in a preserving-pan over the fire. Wlien it boils, drop gradually into it half a pound of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, let it boil up, .sldm it, and pour it out. When cold it will be fit for use. Syrup of Apples (a Gorman recipe).—Peel a dozen tine rennets, cut them into slices as thin as possible, put them into a jar with a pound and a half of sugar and six spoonfuls of water; put the lid on, and place it in a bain-marie for ' two hours, keeping the water always boiling: j be careful from time to time to move the ji:r, I but do not take it out of the water, because by j coming into the cold air it might crack. When it has boiled two hours let the fire go out, and leave the jar in the bain-marie till nearly cold. AVhen the juice is almost cold, flavour it with, lemon-juice, adding a spoonful of essence of lemon, a spoonful of essence of cinnamor., orange-flower water, or anything you please to flavour it with. If it is not quite clear, let it stand for two or three hours more, then poui' it gently into bottles, taking great care not to disturb the sediment at the bottom. Syrup of Barberries.—Boil a quart of water, throw into it a pound of very ripe bar- berries picked from the stalks; after boiling up a few times let them infuse till the following j day; then boil two pounds and a half of sugar I to pearling; set the barberries again on the fire, and after boiling them up three or four times strain them ; add the juice to the sugar, and put the whole on the fire. Skim the preparar tion the whole time of boiling, which must be about twenty minutes. When done bottle it. This sjTup seldom ferments. Syrup of Cowslips.—Upon every gallon of cowslip flowers with their white part cut off pour a quart of boiling water. Put the pan containing them over a very slow fire, where it must simmer gently during six hours. Let it stand till next day, then replace it over a good fire until it reaches the boiling point, but before ebullition commences remove it from the fire. Squeeze out the flowers as hard as you possibly can, and add the same quantity of fresh flowers. Make the preparation boil; but the moment ebullition begins, replace it on the skiw I fire, and let it simmer again for six hours.