BAT ( 713 ) corks. Store in a dry, cool place. When there is ii garden the raspberries may be gathered and thrown into the vinegar as they ripen, until the requisite quantity has been obtained. Infusion for an additional day or two will not injure the preparation. Time, a fortnight. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Raspberry "Water Ice.—Press out the juice from some fresh raspberries, and with each pint of juice mix a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup -with a quarter of a pint of water. Put the preparation in a freezing pot, and freeze in the usual way. To obtain the juice of the raspberries, put a pound of fruit into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of water. Stir the fi-uit till it boils, rub it through a sieve, and it wiU be ready for use. A water-ice made with equal portions of raspberries and red cur- rants is superior in flavour to one made with raspberries alone. Raspberry Whisky.—Take nine quarts of ripe red raspberries, and pick them nicely; boil them twenty minutes with four pounds and a haK of the best loaf sugar, skimming fre- quently ; strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and mix it with a gallon of genuine old whisky and a quarter of a pint of strained lemon-juice. Pour it into a clean stone jar upon one ounce of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, two nutmegs sliced, and two ounces of sugar- candy broken small. Stir these ingredients well together, put in the bung, and seal the jar. Let the jar stand six months in a dry, warm cellar, then strain the liquor, and filter it through fine flannel till it is perfectly clear and bright. Bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it for twelve months longer that the sweet taste may be lost; it will then be beautifully rich. Raspberry, Wholesomeness of the.— This fruit is subacid and cooling; it allays heat and thirst, and, in cojnmon with other summer fruits, promotes the natural excretions. Rasp- berry sjTup is next to strawberry in dissolving the tartar of the teeth ; and as, like that fruit, it does not undergo the acetous fermentation in the stomach, it is recommended to gouty and rheumatic patients. Both preserved in the form of jam, and combined with vinegar and sugar, forming what is known as raspberrj' vinegar, the raspberry is in great estimation. " In either of these forms," says Dr. Andrew, " when diluted with water, it makes an agreeable beverage in febrile complaints, and is also an excellent tliough expensive addition to sea-stores, as an anti-scorbutic." Raspberry Wine.—Pick some ripe rasp- berries, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Let them stand for twenty- four hours, and strain the juice through a flannel bag. Boil the juice, and with every gallon put a pound and a half of loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, let the liquor cool a little, and stir briskly into it the whites of throe or four eggs. Let all boil gently for a quarter of an hour, and carefully remove the froth as it rises. Let it stand till cool, pour it X* very gently into a cask, so as not to disturb the settlings, and add as much yeast as will ferment it. When the fei-mentation begins to decline, tie some flavouring ingredients in a muslin bag, suspend this in the cask for a short time, and taste the liquor frequently, so that the bag may be removed as soon as the wine is pleasantly flavoured. The flavom-ing articles may either be bruised mace, ginger, almonds, orris-root, or odoriferous flowers, such as cowslip or mignonette. When fermentation ceases, put a pint of white wine with each gallon of liquor, close the cask, and in three months it will be ready for use. Raspberry Wine (another way).—Bruise fine ripe raspberries with the back of a wooden spoon, put them into a stone jar, and pour over them an equal quantity of cold spring water. Leave them imtil the next day, strain ofi the liquor, and press the fruit. Dissolve in a small portion of the liquor one pound of loaf sugar for each quart of wine. Stir this into the rest, put the wine into a cask, and stir every day. When fermentation ceases, close the cask. In three months it wiU be ready for use. Raspberry Wine (another way).—Take forty-two quarts of sound ripe red raspberries, gathered in fine weather, pick them, and clear them from the stalks. Put them into a tub, and pour upon them ten gallons of boiling soft water, cover the A^essel up close, and let the raspberries stand until the next day. Then take ofi the scum, press the fruit throiigh a fine sieve, and when the liquid has stood to settle ■ three or four houi's, draw it off clear, and put it into your cask, filter the thick perfectly clear, and add that. Stir in by degrees twenty-five pounds of good moist sugar, and work it with six table-spoonfuls of fresh ale yeast, mixed well with two quarts of the liquor. Put paper and a tile over the bung-hole, keep the cask full, and let it work over. When fermentation has ceased, stop it up for a month, then rack it off into a clean vessel, filter the lees well, and put the wine again into the cask with an ounce of dissolved isinglass and three pints of French brandy. Secure the bung well, and let the wine remain in a cool cellar twelve months; you may then bottle it, and, sealing the corks, keep it until two years old. RatajS.a. — This is the name given to spirituous liquor when flavoured with the kernels of various fruits, like peaches, apricots, and cherries. It should be dropped into any preparation with great care, as, though very delicious when sparingly used, it is poisonous as well as most unpleasant when moderation is not exercised. Small biscuits flavoured with sweet and bitter almonds are named ratafias. Distilled peach or apricot leaves, when cut in the spring, may be used instead of ratafia for flavouring puddings. One way of uiaking ratafia is as follows:— Take the stones from two pounds of morella cherries, and pound them well with one ounce of blanched apricot kernels and a spoonful of brandy. Put them into a large stone jar with a quart of fine brandy, and cover closely. Let the jar re- main for six weeks, and shake it twice a day.