SAG ( 786 ) SAF tho proBsui-d of a thirk board, to form tho mum into cakus. Two pounds of dried cako is tho average crop of an acre, after tho first planting, and twenty-four pounds for tho two following years. After tho third crop tho roots are taken up, divided, and transplanted. Saffron, Properties of.—Dr. Thomson in his " j\lateria Medica" states that saffron excites tho nerves of the stomach, and is in some degree narcotic; its incautious use has sometimes been attended with dangerous con- sequences. It is sometimes adulterated with safflower and marigolds; but the adulteration is easily detected, for the petals of these ilowers ■will appear distinct from the stigmata of the crocus. tSaffron is said to impart an intoxicating quality to bees. It exorcises a specific in- fluence on the brain and nerves, and when taken in large doses causes immoderate mirth and involuntary laughter. Its exhilarating qualities are so remarkable that it has been supposed to be the"nepenthes" of Homer; and to denote a merry temper it became a proverb —" He has slept in a saifron-bag." It has the singular property, also, of counteracting the intoxication produced by alcoholic liquors, as hops to some extent do. This was known to Plmy, who says it allays the fumes of wine and prevents drunkenness. " It was therefore taken in drink by great wine-bibbers, to enable them to drink largely without intoxication. Its efEects, however," says Professor Johnston, " are very uncertain, and it is now little used in medicine, and stiU less, I believe, for adul- terating beer." Saffron Pudding.—Boil a table-spoonful of real saffron in half a tea-cupful of water until the decided taste and smell peculiar to the flower has been extracted and the liquor has acquired a clear light-yellow tinge. Mince finely three-quarters of a poimd of suet, and mix with it a pinch of salt, half a pound of flour, half a pound of grated bread-crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger. When thoroughly mixed, stir in the safEron-water, three well-beaten eggs, and as much milk or cream as .is required to make a light, smooth dough. Turn this into a floured cloth, tie securely, allowing room for the pudding to swell, plunge it into boiling water, and boil until done enough. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for haK a dozen persons. Saffron, Spurious.—The term safron is often applied to the Carthamus tinctorius, a large thistle-like plant, belonging to the order Composite. The root is perennial, but the stem herbaceous. It is said to have been originally brought from the East, but it is now naturalised in many parts of Europe, and is, besides, extensively cultivated. In Spain the flowers are used for colouring soups, olives, and other dishes. The Jews in Poland are remark- ably fond of this spurious saffron, and mix it with their bread and most of their viands. In Germany it is cultivated in a light soil, well pulverieed, and is sown in rows about eighteen inches apart: it is afterwards thinned so as to leave throe or four inches between the plants. Tho pliintH b(jgin to flower in h»ept(imber, and the field is then gone over once every w(;(ik for six or seven weeks, in order to gather the expanded florets, which are dried in a kiln, in the same way as true saftron. Th(; Carthamus 18 occasionally employed in cookery under tho impression that it is the genuine saffron. If too gi-eat quantities are used, it produces a piu-gative efllect. Safift'on Tea (to assist digestion).—Mix a pinch of saffron -with, a quarter of a pmt of hot water. Let it infuse for ten minutes, then add two or three table-spoonfuls of brandy or any other spirit and a lump of sugar. Ser\'e hot or cold. Time, ten minutes. Sage.—Sage is a plant much used in cookery for stuffings and sauces: it is supposed to assist digestion. lied sage is the best, and green sage the next best. August and September are the months for drjdng sage. Sage and Onion Gravy.—Prepare a little more sage and onion stuffing than is re- quired, and rub a portion of it through a sieve. ]\Iix with the pulp as much good stock as wUl make the requisite quantity of gravy, add a spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, let all boil up once, and serve. Sage and Onion Stuffing for Greese, Pork, and Ducks.—Skin ton or twelve onions, and throw them into cold water. "WTien all are peeled, put them with six or eight green sage-leaves into a saucepan of boiling water and let them boil till tender. Pour off the water, mince the onions and sage finely, and beat them well with a piece of butter the size of an egg and a little pepper and salt. Heat the onions again till the butter is dissolved, and serve very hot. If dried sage is used, it must bo pow- dered and mixed with the onions after they are boiled. Time, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Sage and Onion Sttiffing (another way). —See Onion and Sage Stuffing for Geese. &c.