SIC ( 876 ) SIC Chicken Fanada.—Boil the chicken till fibout throo parts ready, in a quart of water, take oif the skin, cut the white meat olt' when cold, and put it into a marble mortar; pound it to a paste ' with a little of the water it was boiled in. | ISeason with a little salt, a grate of nutmej^, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Hoil gently for a few minutes to the consistency liked; ' it should be such as can bo drunk, although tolerably thick. Chicken tvith Sauce.—Prepare the chicken as in the recipe Chicken with Sippets. Serve it up with a delicate sauce made by stirring the yolks of two fresh eggs with a spoonful of water, and then adding them to the gravy of the chicken while hot, but which must not be allowed to boil. Chicken dressed in this way forms an agreeable repast for an invaUd, and is very light for the stomach, and easy of digestion. Chicken tvith Sippets.—Take a small chicken trussed for boiling, and let it soak in a pan of cold water for half an hour. Put it into a small stewpan just large enough to hold it; put in half a pint of cold water, and when it boils cover the saucepan closely, and let it simmer very gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes, according to its size. Dish up the chickens in a very hot covered dish, put half a dozen sippets of bread round the bottom, and then strain the broth from the chicken through a fine lawn sieve into the dish, taking care to prevent any fat" passing through. Add a little salt, if ap- proved. ^el Broth.—Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few peppercorns; let them simmer till the eels are broken and the broth good; add salt, and strain it ofi:. The above should make three half-pints of broth. Egg Wine.—Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water. Set on the fire a glassful of white wine, half a glassful of water, sugar, and nutmeg; when it boils, pour off a little of it to the egg by degrees, till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute; for if it boils, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine may be made as above without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste. Eggs.—An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten •.(■parately, then mixed with a glassful of -wine, wiU afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Gloucester Jelly. — Take rice, sago, pearl barley, hartshorn shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce; simmer with three pints of water to one, and strain it. When cold it vnW be a jelly; which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change Avith other nourish- ment. . Isinglass Jelly.—Put one ounce of ismglnss into a stewpan" with a pint of cold water, the thin rind of a fresh lemon, and four ounces of loaf sugar; the half of the white of an egg beaten on a i)lato may be added. Put the stewpan on the tire, and occasionally stir its contents. The moment they boil place the stewpan at the corner of the fire, and let the jelly siuimer very gently for fifteen minutes; then strain through a fine lawn sieve. This jelly may be fiavoured with lemon-juice, maraschino, or noyeau. Lemonade. —Peel the thin rind of one or two fresh lemons without any of the white part; put the peel into a jug, and pour over it a pint of boiling water ; add four ounces of loaf sugar, and cover the jug closely to keep in the steam. Let it stand till cold, and then add the juice of the lemons ; strain through a fine piece of muslin into a clean jug or decanter. Lemon- Water. — Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boUing water, and stop it closely for two hours. Light Puddings of Vermicelli, Semolina, Tapioca, Mice, Ground Rice, S;c.—Whatever sub- stance is used, it must first be boiled tender in milk, then proceeded wth as for the other puddings {see Bread Pudding, Light, &c.), always taking care that the substance employed is of a thick consistence before the eggs, &c., are added. All light puddings, either of bread, sponge cake, vermicelli, &c., may be flavoured in various ways by using vanilla, orange- flowers, cinnamon, almond, or any other ap- proved flavours. Macaroni with Broth.—Take a small quantity of real Italian macaroni, and boil it in water tin it is just tender. Drain the water off on a hair sieve, then put the macaroni into a stewpan with some of the broth, and let it simmer for five or six minutes; season with a little salt, if preferred. Meat Jelly, Restorative.—Take two or three pounds of the knuckle of veal, the same weight of fresh-killed gravy beef, and one caK's foot, cut the meat from the bones, and chop them in pieces; lay them in the bottom of a stewpan, and put the meat on the top of them; then add as much cold water as will rise two or three inches above the meat; let the whole simmer gently for four hours, taking great care to remove every particle of scum as it rises in the first boiling. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and the next morning the whole of the fat can be taken off. Mutton Broth.—This is best made with the scrag-ends of the necks chopped in pieces, then well washed and soaked in wai-m water to di-aw out the blood, and allowed to simmer for two hours. Mutton Broth (another way).—This is a very supporting broth against any kind of weakness. Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any.other herbs or roots may be added. Take habE a pint four times a day. Orange Jelli/.—'Uso only half a pint of water to one ounce "of isinglass, and proceed as in the recipe Isinglass Jolly. Then rub the rinds of one lemon and of two oranges on a piece of loaf I sugar, which must bf scraped off into a basin-