108S ) for a day or two, accoiding to the season, in a nuxture of vinegai-, onions, thyme, bay-leaves, salt, nutmeg, and popper ; then roast the meat, and serve with sauce d la poivrade. Venison, Neck of, to Roast.—A neck of venison should not be separated from the shoulder till the buck is quite stiff, otherwise the appearance of both joints wiU be spoilt. Shorten the rib bones, but do not cut thi-ough the fat; saw off the chine bone, and remove the small bones which cover the fillet part of the neck. Roll the piece of fat from which the bones were taken over the ribs. Wrap the neck in oiled paper, then in a stiff paste of flour and water, and afterwards in greased paper again. Tie the coverings secui'ely on with tape, and roast the neck according to the directions already given for roasting haunch of venison. When, done enough, serve with the same ac- companiments as the haunch. A neck of veni- son should properly be roasted on a cradle spit. When this is not at hand, three skewers should be put through it, and the spit should be put between them and the bones. Although it is best to cover the neck with the paste, this is oftener than not emitted, and the neck is enveloped in buttered paper only. Time to roast a neck of venison, eleven minutes to the pound. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain Venison, Oxford John of.—Take seme slices of equal size, and half an inch thick, from a well-kept leg, loin, or neck of venison. Season these rather highly with powdered spice, and fry in hot fat till they are brown on both sides. Put them in a stewpan, pour over fchem equal portions of claret and strong brown gravy, enough to cover them, and add a table- spoonful of white wine vinegar, half a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, and a few fried bread-crumbs. Cover the saucepan closely, and heat the sauce gently till it is close upon the point of boiling. Put the slices of venison on a dish, strain the sauce over, and serve very hot. If liked, the slices may be marinaded for an hour or two in the wine, vinegar, and spice, before being fried. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Pasty.—Venison pasty is gene- rally made of the portions of venison which do not roast very well, such as the neck, breast, and shoulders, though even the neck is more generally roasted. The pasty should properly contain venison only. When game and force- meat are introduced, it is laiown no more as venison pasty but as game pie. Wash the veni- son in vinegar, sprinkle a little sugar upon it, and hang it in a cool, airy situation for ten days, or a fortnight- in favourable weather. It should not hang too long, and should be examined night and morning and dried with a cloth. When it is to be used, sponge it over with lukewarm water, and dry it with a soft cloth. Bone it, trim away aU the skin and cut it into pieces two inches square. Lino a baking-dish entirely with good stiflt pastry. Put in the pieces of meat, fat and lean together. If there is not sufficient fat belong- ing to the venison, a thin slice of the firm fat of a loin or peck of mutton may be put in with each piece of lean venison. Season the meat with pepper and salt only, put haU a pound of butter over it, and pour in a quarter of a pint of stock or water. Cover the dish with thick pastry, ornament the top, make an opening in the centre, and lay a sheet of letter-paper over it. Bake in a moderately- heated oven. Whilst it is being baked, put the bones and trimmings of the venison into a stewpan with a pinch of powdered mace, a little pepper and salt, and thi-ee pints of water. Simmer the gravy tiU it is strong and plea- santly flavoured and reduced to less than half the quantity. Strain it, let it cool, and remove the fat. AVhen the pie is done enough, beat the gtavy with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice and a glassful of port. Pour it into the pie, by means of a pointed strainer, through the hole in the centre, incline the dish a little to each side that the gravy may penetrate to all parts, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake the pasty, two hours to three hours and a half, according to size. If the under-crust is omitted, the pie will not need to bake so long. Unless the pastry is thick it will be burnt up before the meat is done enough. Many cooks partially stew the- venison before putting it into the pie. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Pasty (another way).—If the meat is fresh, keep it for a fortnight or three weeks, cut it into pieces, boil it well, and make good gravy, season with pepper, salt, port wine, vinegar, and a little sugar (according to taste); if not fat, put in a little fat mutton. Let it get cold, and then pack it in a dish as close as you can pack it, and put it into the oven. Venison Pasty (another way).—A modem pasty is made of what does not roast well, as the neck, the breast, or shoulder. The breast makes a good pasty. Cut it into little chops, trimming oS the bones and skin; make some good gravy from the bones and other trim- mings ; place fat and lean pieces of the meat together, or, if very lean, place thin slices from the firm fat of a leg or a neck of mutton along with each piece; season the meat with black pepper, salt, pounded mace, and allspice; place it handsomely in a dish, and put in'the di-awn g-ravy, a quarter of & pint of claret or port, a wine-glassful' of shallot vinegar, and if liked a couple oi onions very finely shred. Cover the dish with a thick crust. Before serviag the pasty, if the meat is lean, more sauce, made of a little wine, gravy, mixed spiee, and the juice of a lemon may be put in hot. An hour and a half in a moderate oven is quite sufficient for baking an ordinary-sized pasty; an hour wiU do for a small one. Some cooks marinade the meat in the wine and other seasonings for a night, or for some hours previous to baking. This no doubt imbues the venison with the flavour of the seasonings, but at the same time draws off the juices and hurts the natural flavour of the meat. Venison Pasty, Pastry for.—Pastry .yj^^^"^""- P^^*^ should be good and short, but stilt, h or a nch pasty, it may be made in the proportion of ten ounces of butter to one pound