( 1011 ) TUB TITE wipe the outside with a damp cloth, wash j the inside, and dry it well. Fill with onion forcemeat, truss securely for roasting, and put it down to a clear tiro. Baste liberally, and when it is done en jugh dish it, and pour over it some tomato or truffle sauce. Serve very hot. The onion stuffing may be made as fol- lows :—Skin half a dozen large onions, throw them into boiling water, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Drain and mince them, and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, three moderate-sized truffles thinly sliced, the crumb of two stale roUs which have been soaked in milk and afterwards squeezed tiU dry, a table-spoonful of shred parsley, the yolks of three eggs, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Beat these ingredients thoroughly over a gentle fire until they form a smooth compact mass, and the forcemeat -svill be ready for use. Time to roast small turkey, an hour and a half; large turkey, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 88. to 14s., but more expensive at Christmas. Sufficient, a moderate-sized turkey for six or seven persons. Turkey, Rolled.—Cut a young turkey down the middle into two parts, remove the bones without injuring the skin, lay the pieces flat on the table—skin downwards—and spread over each a layer of good veal forcemeat three- quarters of an inch thick. Roll them up like a sausage, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie this on with twine. Lay the rolls in a stewpan, cover with stock, and put with them a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two carrots, two onions in which two cloves have been stuck, a parsnip, half a small blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently until they are done enough, and skim the liquor carefully. When the bird is half- cooked a glassful of wine may be added to the liquor. Rolled turkey may be eaten hot or cold. If it is to be eaten hot, put the rolls on a hot dish, remove the twine, strain and thicken the sauce, pour part of it over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. If it is to be eaten cold, let the roUs lie in the liquor for half an hour after they are taken from the fire, and when the meat is cold brush over with two ooats of glaze. Time to simmer the rolls, one hour and a half. Turkey, Sauces for.—Brown gravy and bread sauce are the usual accompaniments to roast turkey. Oyster sauce, celerj- sauce, to- mato sauce, mushroom, chestnut, and truffle sauce, are all suitable accompaniments. Sau- sages are generally put round the bird, and gar- nish with sliced lemon. Ham, tongue, bacon, or pickled pork is sent to table with both roast and boiled turkey. With boiled turkey, celery sauce, j oyster sauce, bread sauce, or white sauce should be served. The nature of the sauce should, of course, be regulated by that of the forcemeat. Turkey Soup, Economical.—Take the bones and trimmings of a turkey, after the meat has been made into patties, or "rissoles, minced, pulled, or devilled, break them into small pieces, put thorn into a stewpan with any forcemeat or sauce that may be left, and pour over them two quarts of stock. Bring this slowly to the boil, skim carefully, and add a little salt and pepper, a few sticks of celery, an onion, and a carrot. Let these simmer gently till the bones are quite clean. Strain the soup, and free it from fat. Add further seasoning if liked, and either thicken the soup with two ounces of ground rice or arro^v^oot made into a paste with a little stock and boilec" up in the soup, or, it a clear soup is preferred, clarify according to the directions given for clarifying soup. Drop a little vermicelli, or macaroni, or turned vege- tables into it, let them boil a few minutes, and then serve. The clarifying process will not be necessary if the soup has been gently simmered, thoroughly skimmed, and well strained. If no stock from bones, &c., is at hand, a little may be made by boiling two pounds of the inferior parts of beef in five pints of water for two or three hours, and in this case the bones of the turkey may be stewed with the beef. Or half a pound only of fresh beef may be used, with a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat dis- solved in the liquor. Time, four hours. Turkey Soup, Superior.—Take the re- mains of a cold boiled or roast turkey, cut ofi the meat, mince it finely, pound till smooth, and put it aside till wanted. Break up the body of the bird into small pieces, put these into a stewpan with two quarts of nicely- flavoured white stock, and let them simmer gently for one hour and a half. Strain the gravy, let it cool, skim off the fat, and season with salt and cayenne. Cut a quarter of a pound of stale crumb of bread into thin slices, soak these for a few minutes in as much of the stock as they will absorb, let them simmer a few minutes, and afterwards squeeze the pulp in a cloth till it is quite dry. ]\Iix this tho- roughly with the flesh of the turkey which was put aside, add the soup gradually and srrioothly to the paste, and rub the whole through a fine sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Let it boil once more, add salt and cayenne as re- quired, and just before serving add a pint of boiling cream or milk. If the soup is not sufficiently thick, it may be made so by adding an ounce of arrowroot or ground rice made into a smooth batter -with a little cold milk and boiled in it before the cream is added. The soup ought to be of the consistency of thick cream. If no white stock is at hand, a little may be made as foUows:—Divide two pounds of the scrag-end of a neck of veal, or a calf's foot weU cleaned, or a knuckle-bone of veal, into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with five pints of cold water, a slice of lean ham, a carrot, a turnip, three onions, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a few outer sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Let all simmer gently for three hours. Strain the soup, let it go cold, remove the fat, add a little salt, and it wiU be ready for use. If there be any liquor in which mutton, veal, rab- bits, or chickens have been boiled, it may be stewed with the flavouring ingredients, without any moat. Time, four hours to make the stock, throe hours to make the soup. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Turkey, Stewed.—A small turkey should be chosen lor this dish. Stuff the bird, and