SAL (812) SAL Salmon, Preserved. — Amongst tho miiny lish prescrvod by tho hoiit process and , put up in tins, salmon is undoubtedly tho best. Henco its enonnous and daily-increasing con- sumption in this country. A few years ago it was put up in considorablo quantities by tho Scotch tirma at Aberdeen, as at certain seasons of the year it could be obtained at a very moderate cost. But the Scotch is now almost supplanted by American salmon, which is put up in California, Oregon, New Brunswick, Salvador, and in other districts where it can often be bought by the preservers at one penny per pound. This salmon in tins is retailed in ordinary shops from eightpence to a shilling per pound, according to the popularity of the "brand" and the position of the firm whose label is attached. There are some brands, however, to be obtained at a much cheaper rate, and at the same time they are quite equal to those for which a higher price is asked. The best way of dealing with tinned salmon is to stand the tins, their tops having been previously cut off, in boiling water till the contents are warmed through, for it must be remembered that the salmon is already thoroughly cooked; or it may be made into " fisli-cakss." Good preserved salmon. yn\l turn out whole, and so excellent is it that it takes a good judge to distinguish between, it and the fresh-cooked fish. It is certainly a very valuable addition to our food supply. Sa.'"moil Pudding.—Take half a pound of cold dressed salmon freed from skin and bone. Tear it into flakes, then pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste. Boil a quarter of a pound of grated crumbs in as much milk as these will absorb. Beat these ingredients till they form a smooth paste, and when cool mix this with the salmon, and add a seasoning of salt and cayenne, a grate or two of nutmeg, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Pound thft pudding again until the seasoning is thoroughly incorporated, and add two or more well-whisked eggs. Press the prepara- tion into a thickly-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven; or, if preferred, roll it into the shape of a roly-poly pudding, dredge it well with flour, and wrap it first in buttered paper and afterwards in a pudding cloth. Fasten the ends, and steam the pudding until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with thin custard sauce flavoured with laurel-leaf. The pudding will be richer if cream is used instead of milk, and if additional eggs are allowed. Time to steam or bake the pudding, a little more than half an hour. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the cold salmon, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Salmon, Raised Pie (to be served cold). —Take two pounds of fresh salmon, and one and a half pounds of whiting forcemeat. Remove the skin and bone from the salmon, cut it into neat slices, and season each slice separately with salt and cayenne. Line the pie-mould with pastry (see Raised Pies), and fill with alternate layers of forcemeat and fish, and let forcemeat form the undermost and uppermost layer. Cover tho pie with pastry, and finish in the usual way. Bake, and when done enough let it get cool, then pour into it through an incision in tho top a licjuid jelly made by boiling the bones and skin of the salmon in water and flavouring it pleasantly with salt, cayenne, and (issence of trufBos. Close tho hole, and serve the pie on a neatly- folded napkin. To make the forcemeat, press one pound of tho flesh of whiting through a sieve. Pound the pulp tiU smooth with ten ounces of panada and ten oun(x;H of butter. Add salt and cayenne, and moisten the pre- paration with tho yolk of an egg and a little rich white sauce. Make it in a cool jjlace. In order to ascertain when the pie is done enough, run a skewer quite to the bottom in the centre. If the meat feels tender, it is done. Salmon, il6cha\iff6 of. — Take the remains of cold boiled salmon; free it from skin and bone, and tear it into flakes with two forks. Bruise the bones, and simmer them gently for half an hour in as much water as wiU cover them. Strain the liquor, and thicken it with a little flour and butter. Boil it till smooth, season with pepper and salt, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, half a tea-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a pinch of powdered mace. Mix a pint of shelled shrimps with the flakes of salmon, stir the whole into the sauce, and let it heat gently, hut it must not boil. Serve very hot. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Salmon Roe, Pried.—Boil the hard roe of a salmon. When done enough, draw it on a sieve, and let it remain until cold. Cut it into thin slices, dip these in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat tu\ they are lightly and equally browned all over. Garnish witi parsley, and serve with tartar sauce. Salmon Roes, Caviare of.—Wash the roes thoroughly in milk and water, and drain them till dry. Let them lie in salt for two days. A pound of spawn will require two ounces and a half of salt. Take them up, lay them on a board before the fire, and let them remain for some hours. Crush them with a roUer, and with every pound of spawn put eight drops of spirit of nitre and as much pounded saltpetre as win cover a sixpence. Press the preparation into jars, cover the surface with writing-paper, and spread upon them a little cold lard. Tie bladder over the top, and keep in a warm place. Salmon Salad. —Take the remains of broiled salmon, or broil some slices specially for the purpose. Divide these into neat pieces two inches square and half an inch thick. Season, the pieces separately with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Make a Uttle clear aspic j elly, stoned with pepper, salt, vinegar, and chopped ravi- gote fscc Ravigote). Wash some lettuces or any other suitable salad, and drj- thorn per- fectly. Divide the hearts into halves, and with them make a border round a dish. Deco- rate this border ^vith picked prawns, hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, &c. Put a layer of salmon into the centre of the dish, and pour over it a little of the savoury a.spic. When it is se^ put another layer, and let this set again, and