WIL ( 1126 ) WIL a wild duck should be allowed only to fly through a hot kitchen before it is sent to table; and though this ia scarcely the case, still the bird is considered to be in perfection only when it is crisp and brown on the surface, and so much underdone that tlio gravy Hows into the dish when it is cut. Usually the breast of the bird is the only part cared for. A wild duck should be roasted before a brisk lire, and it ahould be basted constantly. The duck is to bo preferred to the drake, though the latter often fetches the higher price. Wild Ducks (American fashion) .—Pluck and di-aw the ducks, wipe the inside with a cloth, !ind sprinkle salt and pepper over them inside and out. Fill them with crumb of bread "which has been thickly buttered and soaked in hot water till quite soft. Truss them securely, put them down to a clear fire, and baste them for ten minutes with half a pint of slightly-salted water in which a sliced onion has been soaked. This is to remove the un- pleasant fishy flavour from the birds. When it has been used, throw the onion water away, and in its place put haK a pint of hot water. Baste the birds with a little butter, dredge flour over them, and baste with the water in the pan. When they are done enough, take them up, and serve with gravy which has been made by stewing the giblets, then straining the liquor, thickening it with brown thickening, and stirring into it a table-spoonful of black- currant jeUy, a glassful of port, and a little salt and cayenne. Time to roast the ducks, twenty to thirty minutes. Wild. Ducks, Fillets of.—As the breast only of the wild duck is usually eaten at table, the fillets from each side of the breast and the slices from the sides are frequently cut oft' after the birds are roasted, and served on toast with orange gravy {see Orange Sauce, for Ducks and Wild Fowls) poured over them. When served in this way the bird is underdressed. Wild Ducks, Fillets of. with Olives or Celery.—iioast three or lour wild ducks, and cut ofi the fiUets according to the recipe already given. Score the skin, dish the fillets in a circle, and put into the centre either some stewed celery {see Celery, Stewed) or some stoned olives. Send clear brown gravy to table in a tureen, and serve. Time to roast the ducks, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4s. to 5s. per pair. Sufficient for a dish. Wild Ducks, Fillets of, with Poivrade Sauce.—Roast three or four wild ducks, and cut off the fillets according to the recipe already given {see Wild Ducks, FiUets of). Score the skin, dish the fillets in a circle, and pour over them a little poivrade sauce. Serve, and send additional sauce to table in a tureen {see Poivrade Sauce). Time to roast the ducks, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4b. to 6s. per pair. Sufficient for a dish. Wild Ducks. Roasted (Polish fashion). —Take two wild ducks, singe them, wash them inwardly, truss, put them in a kitchen basin, pour over a little cooked marinade, and let them macerate for five or six hours. At the end of that time lay them in a roasting-pan with the marinade; cover them with buttered paper, and cook them, basting often. When half done, add to their cooking-stock two gills of good thick sour cream, and finish cooking gently basting from time to time. Just bo- fore serving, draw, divest them of the string, and dish them up. Mix a little gravy with their cooking-stock, reduce the liquid, stirring till it is thickened Like a sauce, then pour it over the birds. Wild Fowl (Hunter's fashion).—Roast the fowls before a clear fire, baste liberally, and take them up whilst they are still decidedly underdressed. Send them to table very hot with rich brown gravy in a tureen. Put near the carver a silver dish which can be placed over a spirit lamp. Put into this dish a spoon- ful of Harvey, two glassfuls of port, two glass- fuls of gravy, the strained juice of a lemon, and a little salt and cayenne. Mix the sauce thoroughly, cut the fillets from the breast of the fowls, and the slices from the sides; put these into the gravy. Heat the whole over the spirit lamp, and serve very hot. Time, a minute or two to heat the fillets in the sauce. Our American cousins dissolve a little black- currant jelly in the sauce thus prepared for wUd fowl. Probable cost of wUd fowl, very uncertain. Wild Fowl, FUlets of, with Bigarade Sauce.—Roast three or four wild fowls, take them up, and cut the flesh off each side of the breast and from the sides under the wings. Score the skin, and dish the fiUets in a circle with a little bigarade sauce poured over them, and more sent to table in a tureen. This sauce may be made as foUows:—Take the yeUow rind of two oranges without any of the white part, cut it into thin shreds, blanch it in boiling water for two minutes, drain it, and put it into an earthenware jar with the strained juice of the lemons. Add a pinch of cayenne and a tea-cupful of good brown gravy. Put the jar into a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, set it on the fire, and keep the water boiling tiU the sauce is very hot. Stir it aU the time; add a smaU glassful of port to it, and it wiU be ready for serving. The wine may be omitted. Time, two minutes to boil the sauce. Wild Fowl, Plucking of.—It is rather a tedious affair to dispossess the generality of wUd fowl of the closely-adhesive down which is pecuUar to them. The most effectual plan to adopt is to immerse the birds, when divested of their feathers, in scalding water. AUow them to remain therein for about two minutes. Have at hand some finely-powdered resin, and by the appUcation of the hand with the use of the latter rubbed over the fowl the whole of the down wiU be removed. Wild Fowl, Roast.—It is an old and true figurative saying that a wild duck to bo pro- perly roasted should only walk through the kitchen, that the widgeon should run gently through, but that the teal should scamper through. AU these birds must therefore be very Httle done. If they are of a kind that ia usuaUy impregnated with a fishy flavour, which is most inveterate when they are not fa.,