SHA SHA ( 852 ) sauce, or raaitre d'hotol butter, to tuMe with it. Tiuio, half an hour to Boak the fish, and about eighteen minutes to broii each side. Cost, vai-iable. Shad, French way of Cooking.— "This tish," siiys M. Udo, " is hold in high esti- mation in Fi-anco, and especially in Paiis. Tt must be scaled, emptied, and washed nicely. Next it is to bo steeped in a little oil with pepper and salt. It is necessary to split it, that the salt may penetrate. Broil it on both sides over a slow fire. It will be done in the coiu-so of one houi\ When done, let it be served with caper sauce, or with son-ol." Shad, Pried.—Scale the fish, lift the flesh from the bones, and divide it into pieces con- venient for serving. Preserve the roe to fry with it. Wash the pieces, wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and dip each one separately in flour. Put them into boiling hot fat, and fry them gently imtil done enough. Drain them, and serve them upon a hot dish. Fry the roe, and garnish the fish with it. Serve with caper or maitre d'hotel sauce. Time to fry, ten minutes or more, according to thickness. Shad, Planked, American.—Scale and empty the fish, cut off the head, and split it open from head to tail. Spread it on a board, and fasten it down with pegs or skewers to keep it in position. Put it before a clear fire, and rest the lower end of the plank in a tub containing salt and water. Toast the fish, and keep basting it well with the liquor; when it is almost cooked baste it with butter. Serve on a hot dish, garnish with pickled walnuts, and send melted butter flavoured with walnut ketchup to table in a tureen. Shad, Potted.—Clean the shad, take off the head, tail, and fins, and cut it in pieces to suit the jar in which it is to be potted. Pound, first separately and afterwards together, two blades of mace, two tea-spoonfuls of allspice, and a tea-spoonful of cloves. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and cayeime over the pieces of fish, pack them in layers in a jar, and di-edge a little of the seasoning over each layer. When the jar is ftdl cover the whole with vinegar, put the lid on the jar, or if it is necessary to tie a covering of paper or cloth over it, lay a piece of dough upon this to prevent the steam escaping. Put the jar in a moderate oven, and bake untU done enough. Keep the potted fish covered with the liquor tUl wanted. It wiU make a good breakfast relish. Herrings may be potted in the same way. Time to bake, about three hoirrs. Shad, Stuffed and Baked.—Wash, empty, and scale a shad, and fill the mside with veal or oyster forcemeat, or with a force- meat prepared as follows -.—Moisten two slices of crumb of bread with hot water, press the water from it, and beat it up with a sUce of butter, three or four sage-leaves chopped small, and a little pepper and salt. Sew up the body of the fish with soft cotton, and dredge it weU with flour. Lay it upon a trivet m a dnpping- pan, seasoning it with pepper and salt; lay I little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and pour a pint of wat(;r round it to bastft it with. Bake in a quick oven, and basto frequently, and if neccHsary add a httle more water. Mix a heaped tea-spoonful of flour to I a smooth paste with a little water, work into it a sUce of fresh butter, and mix with it liulf a I pint of the gravy in the pan. Put it into a saucepan, stir it till it thickens, and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Put tlu; lish on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, garnish with parsley and lemon, and send mashed potatoes to table with it. Time to bake, one hour. Shad^ Stuffed and Broiled.—Scale a shad weighing about two pounds, empty and clean it carefully, opening it as little as pos- sible in doing so. Fill it with veal or oyster forcemeat; sew up the body of the fish with soft cotton that the forcemeat may not escape. Wrap it in a sheet of paper that has been dipped in oil, and broil over a clear, gentle fire. Serve with caper sauce or with oil and vinegar. Time to broil, about an hour. Shaddock Orange.—This plant was brought from the East Indies to the West, where it is now much cultivated. It sometimes produces fruit larger than a man's head, but they are of a harsh flavour and pale colour when compared with those of India, the flesh of which is sweet and of a deep gold colour. When several sorts of orange are presented at I the dessert it makes a striking addition to the I variety. The juice is of a sub-acid sweetness, and excellent for quenching thirst, and the fruit, from the thickness of its skin, will keep longer in sea-voyages than any of the other species of citrm. Shallot.—The shallot, or eschalot, is a kind of onion—the mildest cultivated—used for seasoning soups and made dishes, and for flavouring sauces and salads. The shallot has a bulbous root, made up of a number of smaller bulbs, called cloves. It ought to be taken up in the autumn, and be hung in nets in a cool airy place. Wlien properly dried, it will keep till spring. It is stronger in taste than the onion, but does not leave so strong an odour on the palate, and for this reason is often em- ployed instead of the onion, both in cooking and for eating in a raw state. It is planted during October or November, or early in spring, say in February, March, or the beginning of April. Shallots are in the best condition during July, August, and September. Shallot for Venison. — Strip off the skin from some fine shallots—about a pint in quantity—boil them in salted water for five minutes, then throw off the first water, and add more boiling water to them. If the sauce is desired very mild, change the water until quite done, and throw in salt enough to flavour. Drain them thoroughly. Serve in good melted butter or gravj^ This sauce is often sei-ved as an accompaniment to venison when the true flavour of the meat is not relished. Time, about fifteen minutes to boU. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Shallot Gravy {see Gravj-, Shallot).