BOA BIS ( 768 ) Bissoles, Pancake.—^lako some batter as for paiirakc'ji. It will bo bottor if iiiado two or Ihi'od liours buforc it i.s wantud. Miuco Knoly some cold-drossod vcul, and with it a quarter of its woijjbt in loan ham or tongue. Season with salt, jiopper, grated nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. i'ry a thin pancake in the usual way. When it is brown on the upi)or side turn it over, and put into the middle of it two table-spoonfuls of tho mineod veal. Fold it over at the ends, and at oaeli side, that the meat may not escape, and fry tho rissoles thus made till they are lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve very hot. Time to fxy tho rissoles with the meat, three or four minutes. Sufficient, five or six for a dish. Pro- bable cost, 4d. each. Bissoles, Bice.—Boil half a pound of rice till soft and dry. Beat it well, and mi.\ with it the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, two table-spoonfuls of good white sauce, and a little peppor, salt, and grated nutmeg. Beat the mixture over the fire till the eggs are set, then turn it upon a dish. "When cold, mould a spoonful of it in a teacup to a hollow round form, put into the centre any kind of sa- voury mince, and cover with the rice. Dip the rissoles in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, dish them neatly on a napkin, and serve very hot. Time to beat the rice over the fire with the eggs, five minutes. To fry the rissoles, fiA'e or six minutes. Probable cost, 3d. cMch. Sufficient, eight or ten for a dish. Bissoles, Savoury.-Mince very finely H ny white meat remaining from da-essed poultry, and nibir with it a fourth of its weight in ham or tongue. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and add a fourth part of grated bread-crumbs. Bind the mince together with beaten egg. Instead of pastry, make a force- meat as follows :—With four ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs mix a quarter of an ounce of minced lemon-rind, a quarter of an ounce of powdered savoury herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. With the fingers work into the bread two ounces of sweet butter, and the unbeaten yolk of an egg. The forcemeat ought to be sufficiently firm to roll out on a floured board to the thickness of the third of an inch. Roll out the forcemeat, stamp it into rounds, lay upon one of these a small ball of minced chicken, put another forcemeat round upon it, and repeat until the meat is used. Close the edges securely, dip the i-issoles in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Bissoles, Sweet.—RoU and stamp the pastry in small rounds, as for ordinary rissoles. Lay in the centre a spoonful of jam or marma- lade, put a round of pastry on the top, and ])ro.HS the edges securely. Brush the rissoles over with egg, lay a little ring of pastry on the top of each, ])r"u.sh over with egg again, and bake on a baking-tin in ii well-heated ov(<n. When the pastry ia set, take the rissoles out. sift finely-powdered sugar over them, and re- turn them to the oven for a few miuutoH. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Biver Crab.—This a genus of crab in- liabitiug fresh water. One species—the grancio of the Italians—is very cijiiimon in the 8<juth of Europe, and is often met with figun-d im Greek medals. In ancient times it was higldy esteemed as an article of food, and it in much thought of even at the i)reseut day, being connnonly eaten in Italy during the sesisoii of Lent. It frequents muddy lakes and slow rivers, and in some it ali.solutely swarms. Itb captors bring it to market tied on strings, care being taken that the cjubs are placed at such distances as to prevent their fighting and mutilating one another. Boach..—The roach is a fish which inhabits shallow and gently-flowing streams. Its flesh is white, but turns red when boiled; and its com- pactness is thought by many to have given rise to the proverb, " As sound as a roach." It is more likely, however, that this is derived from the French roche, or " rock." Roach is in season from September to March. It seldom weighs more than a pound and a half. It is best fried. Boach, Pried.—Wash the fish, dry them thoroughly with a soft cloth, dredge flour lightly over them, and fry them in hot fat till the flesh leaves the bone easily. Draiu. and serve them on a hot dish, garnished wiih parslev. Send anchovy sauce to tible ^vith them." Time to fry, ten minutes. Sufficient, thi-ee or four for a dish. Probable <-n<t. un- certain, roach being .seldom .sold. Boast Meat, Gravy for.—"NVheu the meat is done, lay that end which is least done in a clean hot dish before the fire, then pour all the fat out of your dripping-pan through a haii- sieve into your stone jar, and put it away . then wipe out of your pan any dust or cinders that may be in it ^vith a clean dish-cloth, and for a joint of about ten pounds pour a small-.sized cupful of boiling stock made from trimining.s into yom' dripping-pan, and with this stock, and 5'our basting-ladle rub all the baked brown gravy off the pan—for nearly all the re^l gravy which drops from the meat will be baked to the dripping-pan. When you have rubbed and washed all the brown off the pan, mix it Avell together, and strain it through a fine hair sieve into a butter siiucepan, simmer it gently over the fire till it is quite hot but not to boil , pour it over the meat, and servo it up. You will find it a good nice brown gravy, better than is frequently made with half a pound of gravy-beef. Boast Meat, Gravy for (another way;. —See Gravy for Roast Meat. Boast Meat, Wholesomeness of.— Roasting is an excellent method of rendering food wholesome and nourishing, as without making any great change in the chemical pro- ])erties of meat, it renders it more tender, sapid, and highly flavoured, whilst there is not s./