TAB ( 959 ) TAB tai-o root is something like an oblong turnip or l eetroot, teiininating abruptly, as if the smaller end had been cut off. The taro roots when raw are poisonous, and they are prepared for eating by two iiistinct processes. One is by the ordinary method of boiling as potatoes are boiled, with the addition of salt thrown into the water. After being boiled, the root, now pos- sessing a fine white mealy appearance, is eaten as li yam or sweet potato. The more general practice, however, is to mash or pulverise the taro into a floury substance, and afterwards, mixing it with water, make batter cakes of it, to be frittered in lard. When thus prepared, the taro may be easily mistaken for pancakes made of the best flour. Tarragon Sauce for Boiled Fowls. I — Take a small bunch of tarragon, and put it I into a saucepan with a pint of nicely-seasoned ' white stock and the white of an egg which has been beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of cold water and a table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Whisk all thoroughly over the fire until the broth boils, then draw it to the side, let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and afterwards let it stand to settle for another quarter of an hour. Strain through a jelly- bag, and when clear, reduce the sauce by quick boiling until it is rich and good. Time, a quarter of an hoiu* to boil, and a quarter of an hour to settle. Tarragon Vinegar for Salads and various Sauces.—Gather the tarragon on a dry day, just before the plant begins to bloom. This will be late in July, or in the early part of August. Pick the leaves from the stalks, and with them fill wide-mouthed glass bottles up to the neck, and in doing so bruise the leaves slightly that their flavour may more easily escape. Cover with best vinegar, tie bladder over the mouths of the bottles, and then let the leaves infuse six weeks or two months. Pour off the liquid, strain through muslin till it is quite clear, put it into small bottles, and cork down securely. Store in a dry place. Time, about two months. Tarragon "Vinegar (another w&j).—See Elder-flower and Tarragon Vinegar. Tart, Fruit (English way).—Spread some puff paste over the table with a rolling-pin ; cut a piece the size of the dish, and out of the trim- mings cut some strips; brush the edge of the dish with dorure, and stick the strips on it: then put the fruit into the dish with some sugar and a little water ; roll the paste on the rolling-pin, and lay it over the fruit. Before you put the paste on, brush the strips with some dorure (egg- wash, or water) to make it stick. When you have trimmed the dish all roimd, brush some white of egg over the tart, and sift some sugar over it: then dip the paste-brush into water, and shake it over the tart. Bake it properly, and serve up cold. Apples, however, are an exception, as thoy are bettor hot. Instead of brushing the tart with white of egg only, you may use yolk and white beaten together, which 18 called dorure, and should be borne in mind. When this has been done, take a small knife and ornament the paste with figures according to your fancy; then put the tart in the oven, and if it begins to have too much colour cover it with paper. When done, spread over it some fine sugar through a sieve, replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, and with the red salamander glaze the tart of a bright colour. You must prepare all kinds of fruit in the same way: use sometimes the paste for tarts, but in that case no strips are absolutely necessary. Tart, My Lady's.—Make a little pastry with six ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, three ounces of fresh butter, and as much cold water or milk as will make a smooth firm paste. Roll it out lightly two or three times, and the last time roll it to the thickness of a little less than an inch. Stamp it out with a fluted cutter the size of the dish in which it is to be served, and lay it on a floured baking-tin. Roll the trim- mings of the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and stamp this out in rounds the size of the flutings of the larger cutter. Moisten the edges slightly, lay the rounds upon the border of the tart, and press them upon the inner side, so that the outer edge may have a flak}'- appearance. Lastly, make a circular incision a quarter of an inch deep almost close to the border, and bake the tart in a moderate oven. When it is done enough take out the part which has been marked with a sharp knife, carefully scrape away tlie soft crummy centre, and fill the tart with good jam of any kind, or with oysters or lobstcr-s prepared as for a vol-au-vent. Put the tart into the oven again for a minute, and serve it hot or cold. It may be ornamented according to fancy. If filled with sweetmeat, a few blanched and sliced almonds may be strewn over it, or the rounds of the border may be glazed with beaten egg. At Christmas-time the tart may be filled with hot mincemeat instead of jam. Time to bake, twenty-five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the interior, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tart with Sugar Icing.—The appear- ance of tarts made in the orcGnary way, and with all kinds of fruit, is very much improved by icing them. In order to do this proceed as follows:—Line the edges of the dish with good crust, fill it with fruit and a little sugar, lay on the cover, press down the edges, and trim them neatly. Make a small hole at each side for the steam to escape, then before putting the tart in the oven, brush it over with cold water, and sift white sugar thickly upon it. Or, when the tart is nearly baked, take it out, brush it over with white of egg whisked to froth; sift white sugar on this and sprinkle a little water on the top. If necessarj', lay a sheet of writing-paper over it to keep it from acquiring too much colour. Time to bake, half an hour for a moderate-sized tart. Tartar Mustard.—Put a table-spoonful of the best Durham mustard into a cup with a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne, and 'nib it down to a smooth paste, using horse- radish vinegar instead of water. Be careful to mix no more than wiU be required for one