HAB KAB ( 693 ) out the rabbit, skim and strain the sauce, and thicken with a table-spoonful of brown thickening. Season with salt, pepper, and "■rated nutmeg, and let it boil tiU smooth. Add a glassful of sherry or madeira if liked. Put in the pieces of meat. Lot them get thoroughly hot without allowing the gravy to boil, arrange them neatly in a dish, pour the gravy oyer them, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Time to sunmer the rabbit, from an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Roast—Take a plump young rabbit. Skin, empty, and wash it; fill the inside with good veal forcemeat, sew it up securely, and truss firmly with the forelegs back, the hind legs forwards, and the head fastened in an upright position with a skewer. The flavour of the rabbit will be improved if the inside is lined with fat bacon before the forcemeat is put in, but this may be omitted. Fasten a slice of fat bacon over the back of the rabbit, put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. 'When it is partially roasted, flour well, and baste again. When done enough, take it up, remove the skewers, and serve on a hot dish with a little gravy poured over it, and the rest in a tureen. Serve fried bacon on a separate dish. Rabbit, Roast, and Chestnuts.— Take two dozen fine large chestnuts. Slit each one lightly with a penknife, and throw all into a saucepan .of cold water. Let them boil for a quarter of an hour, drain, and peel them. WhUst the cliestnuts are boiling, skin, wash, and empty a plump young rabbit. Throw the liver into boiling water, let it boil ten minutes, and afterwards mince it finely, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, four ounces of fat bacon, a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and half the boUed chestnuts. Pound these in- gredients thoroughly in a mortar, and when the forcemeat is well mixed put it inside the rabbit, sew up securely, and truss firmly. Tie three or four slices of fat bacon over it, put it down before a clear fire, baste frequently, and lot it remain until done enough. Eemove the skewers, lay it on a hot dish, pour over it a spoonful or two of the sauce made with the remainder of the chestnuts, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Garnish with sliced lemon. The sauce may be made as follows:— Pound the peeled chestnuts till they are quite smooth, and with them an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Mix half a pint of good brown gravy gradually with the chestnut paste, and stir over the fire tiU it is quite smooth. Time to roast the rabbit, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Roast (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe). —If tlie fire is clear and sharp, thirty minutes will roast a young and forty a full-grown rabbit. When you lay it down, baste it with butter, and dredge it lightly and carefully with. flour that you may have it fr-^thy and of a fine light brown. While the rabbit"is roasl;ing, boil its liver with some parsley; when tender, . chop them together, and put half the mixture into some melted butter, reserving the other half for garnish, divided into little hillocks. Cut oft' the head and lay hiilf on each side of the dish. A fine, well-grown (but young) waxTcn rabbit, kept some time after it has been killed, and roasted with a stuffing in its belly, eats very like a hare, to the nature of which it approaches. It is nice noui-ishing food when young, but hard and unwliolesome when old. Rabbit, Roast, Plain.—Skin, empty, and wash a plump young rabbit. Truss it firmly, the fore-legs backwards, the back-legs forwards, and the head fixed in an upright position ijy means of a string passing across the shoulders. Tie one or two rashers of fat bacon over the back, put the rabbit down to a clear fire, and baste it well until done enough. Put it on a hot dish, remove the skewers, garnish with slices of fried bacon, and send to table with a sauce prepared as follows:—Cut an ounce of lean ham or bacon into dice. Put these into a stewpan with a small slice of fresh butter, a table-spoon- ful of chopped carrot, a tea-spoonful of chopped onion, an inch or two of celery, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a tea-spoonful of i)epper- corns, and a pinch of powdered mace. Stir these ingredients with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire imtil they are well browned. Pom- over them a tea-spoonful of ketchup, a table- spoonful of vinegar, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Simmer all gently together for ten minutes, add a quarter of a pint of stock, and a glass of sherry, and simmer again until the sauce is pleasantly flavoured. Add a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening, or failing this a table-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water, and a spoon- ful of sugar browning. Boil a few minutes longer, and serve very hot. Time to roast the rabbit, three-quarters of an hour to one hour ; less if the rabbit be small. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Rabbit, Roast, To Carve.—Proceed in the same way as for hare {sec Hare, Eoast, To Carve). Rabbit, Roasted, Sauce for (a sauce for a roasted rabbit used by King Henry the Eighth).—Take a handful of washed parsley, mince it small, boil it with butter and verjuice upon a chafing-dish, season it with sugar and a little pepper " gross^ beaten;" when it is ready, put in a few crumbs of white bread amongst the other. Let it boil again till it be thick, then lay it in a platter, like the breadth of three fingers, lay on each side one roasted conny (rabbit) or more, and so serve them.—From John Fartridffe's " Treasure of Commodious Conceits and Hidden Secrets." Fourth Udition, l5Si. Rabbit Salad.—Cut the flesh of a roasted rabbit into neat slices, and let these lie in a marinade composed of a table-spoonful of vinegar, the same quantity of salad oil, three or four tarragon leaves, or a little tarragon vinegar, a sliced onion, and a little pepper and salt. Turn the meat over, and baste fre- quently till it is thoroughly impregnated with the flavour of the marinade. Wash and dry