WIN (11 28) Windborry.—This ia another name for the whortleberry (which see). Windermere Ketchup.—Procure the largest iiiushruoins, with broad flaps and rod gills, gathered before they are discoloured by the sun. Wipe them with a clean cloth, and break them into an earthen pan. Upon every three handfuls of mushrooms put a handful of Bait, 80 as to form layers, until all tlio mush- rooms are in the pan. 8tir them well with a stick or a wooden spoon throe or four times a day imtil the mushrooms are dissolved, which process may bo hastened by pressing the several lumps. Now throw the whole into a boiler, and set it over a slow fire, when it must simmer until the whole is perfectly liquescent. Strain the hot liquid through a hair-sieve, then boil it gently again with some allspice, pepper- corns, horseradish, a few shallots, and two or three bay-leaves. After it has simmered some time, and all the dark scimi is taken from it, strain it into a large bottle or jar, which, when the ketchup is quite cold, must be well corked, and a bladder tied over the cork. At the expiration of three months boil it again with a few peppercorns, some fresh allspice, a stick of horseradQsh, a few more shallots, and two bay- leaves. Let it simmer half an hour after it has boiled up, then strain it into small bottles; when the ketchup is quite cold, cork the bottles, tie a bladder over the corks, and cover the bladder with sealing-wax. It will then keep any length of time. Windmill Pancakes.—These are pink pancakes prepared as follows:—Boil a large red beetroot until it is very tender; then peel it, cut it into thin slices, and pound it to a pulp in a marble mortar. Add the yolks of five eggs, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four of cream, plenty of powdered loaf sugar, half of a nut- meg grated, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Rub the whole into a batter, and fry the pan- cakes with lard. Serve them up hot, garnished with green sweetmeats. Windsor Beans {see Beans, Broad or Windsor). Windsor Beans (a la Poulette).—Wind- sor beans are to be served at a good table only when very young and fresh-gathered. Boil them in salt and water. When nearly done drain them, and stew them in a little sauce toumee with a bunch of parsley and green onions, a little savory chopped very fine, and a small lump of sugar. When the beans are sufficiently reduced, throw in a thickening made of the yolks of two eggs and a little thick cream. Send them up in a short sauce, and properly seasoned. Windsor Beans, Ham with {see Ham with AVindsor BnanH). Windsor Beans (preserved in tins).— Procure, as a pattern, from an Italian ware- house a tin box, pint size, with its cover. Get as many similar boxes made as will be required. Gather the Windsor beans when they are the size of green pcaa; put them into the tins with a tea-spoonful of salt, a sprig of green winter f-avory, and haH a gill of wat(!r. liot a tinman Bolder down the covers; then put the tms into a largo stowpan. Cover with boiling water, and boil quickly for half an hour. Take tliem from tho tire, and when cold examine them care- fully. Solder again any parts tliat l(!ak, and keep them in a cool place. When tlie beans are to bo used, open tho tin, and turn its contents, liquor and all, into a saucepan with a sprig of parsley and a pinch of powdered white sugar. When tho beans aro hot, strain off the liquor, put the vegetables into a tureen with a small piece of butter, and serve. Time to boil tho beans in the tins, half an hour. Windsor or Broad Beans.—These beans are great favourites witli many persons, but they are not good unless they are young and freshly gathered. They are in season in July and August. To boil them, first shell them, then put them into slightly-salted and fast-boiling water. When tender, drain them, dish them quickly, and serve with parsley sauce. They are the usual accompaniment to boiled bacon. They should be boiled separately. Two or three recipes for dressing these beans are given under Beans, Broad or Windsor. Windsor Pancakes {see Pancakes, Windsor). Windsor Pies of Meat, Potdtry, or Game.—Take a pound of lean undressed mutton from the loin or leg, or an equal quan- tity of any other kind of meat, poultry, or game. Cut it into dice, season with pepper, salt, chopped mushrooms, finely-shred parsley, and minced shallot, and moisten with good gravy. Line some patty-pans with pastrj', three-parts fiU them with the mixture, cover them with pastry, and press the edges securely together. Make a little slit in the centre of each patty, and ornament it. Brush the patties over with egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, dish them on a napkin, and serve. Time to bake the patties, about twenty minutes. Sufticient, a dozen for a dish. Windsor Pudding.—Pare and core half a dozen baking apples, and boil or bake them tin quite soft. Beat them to a smooth pulp, and with them an ounce of best Carolina rice boiled in milk till it is tender, an ounce of powdered white sugar, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a pinch of grated lemon-rind. Whisk the whites of four eggs to snow, stir them into the pudding mixture, and beat it again till it is yery light. Dip a pudding-mould into boiling water, take it out, and whilst it is hot pour the mixture into it; cover it, put it into a large pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling till the white of the egg is firm. Turn it out, and pom- round it a custard made with the yolks of the eggs. Serve immediately. Windsor Syllabub. — Put a pint of sherry into a china bowl, sweeten it, and flavour with grated nutmeg. Pour upon it a pint and a half of milk, stir briskly, and serve the syllabub frothed. Windsor Veal Pie.—Fill a dish with alternate layers of lean voal cut in slices halt an inch thick and thin slices of lo^in ham. and season each layer with powdered man- and white pepper. Place a dish with a weight over