( 663 ) 'i'imc, four to six minutes. Probablo cost, lOd. Sutlicient for two or three persons. Preserves, Fruit.—Homo-made jam is both a convenicnco and a luxury. When well and ciirefully made it is not only superior to that which is usually ottered for sale, but very much more economical also, and no store-closet can bo said to be well filled which does not boast a goodly show of neatly-labelled jars of preserves. In making jam, the first thing to be looked after is the fruit. As a general rule, this should be fully ripe, fresh, sound, and scrupulously clean and dry. It should be gathered in the morning of a sunny day, as it will then possess its finest flavour. The best sugar is the cheapest; indeed, there is no economy in' stinting the sugar, either as to quality or necessary quantity, for inferior sugar is wasted in scum, and the jam will not keep unless a sufficient proportion of sugar is boiled with the fruit. At the same time too large a proportion of sugar will destroy the natural flavour of the fruit,°and in aU probability make the jam candy. The sugar should be dried and broken up into smaU pieces before it is mixed with the fruit. If it is left in large lumps it wiU be a long time in dissolving, and if it is crushed to powder it will make the jam look thick instead of clear and bright. The quantity to be used must depend in every instance on the nature of the fruit, and will be found in the several recipes throughout this work. Fruit is generally boiled in a brass or copper pan uncovered, and this should be kept perfectly bright and clean. Great care should be taken not to place the pan flat upon the fire, as this will be likely to make the jam bum to the bottom of the pan. If it cannot be placed upon a stove-plate, it should be hung a little distance above the fire. Glass jars are much the best for jam, as through them the condition of the fruit can be observed. Whatever jars are used, however, the jam should be examined every three weeks for the first two months, and if there are any signs of either mould or fer- mentation, it should be boiled over again. The best way to cover jam is to lay a piece of paper the size of the jar upon the jam, to stretch over the top a piece of writing-paper or tissue paper which has been dipped in white of egg, and to press the sides closely down. When dry, this paper will be stiff and tight like a drum. The strict economist may use gum dissolved in water instead of white of egg. The object aimed at is to exclude the air entirely. Jam should be stored in a cool dry place, but not in one into which fresh air never enters. Damp has a ten- dency to make the fruit go mouldy, and heat to make it ferment. Some cooks cover the jam as soon as possible after it is poured out, but the generally-approved plan is to let the fruit gro%v cold before covering it. In making jam, continual watchfulness is required, as the result of five minutes' inattention may be loss and disappointment. There are other ways of pre- serving fruit besides making it into jam, such as drying, bottling, and candying. The recipes for these processes will be given in their proT)er places. Uocipes for the following preserves will bo round under their respective headings :— Jaugonbllb Peaks Lemon Juice Lemon Peel Lettuce Stalks Limes Magnum Bonum Plums Melon mulberuies Nectarines Orange Plums Oranges, Whole Oranges, Whole, Cauveh Peaches in Brandt Peaches, Whole Pears Pears, Red Plums Pumpkin Quinces Siberian Crabs Strawberries Straw HERRiES in Wine Tomatoes Truffles Water Melon Rind Windsor Beans Almack's Apples Ari'LEs for Winter Use Apricots in Jelly Apricots, Whole or IN Halves Barberries Beetroot Biffins Black Currant Cherries Cherries in Svrup Cherries, Morella Cranberries Cucumbers Damsons Eggs Figs Ginger Ginger, Imitation Golden Pippins Gooseberries, Green, as Hops Gooseberries, Green, Whole Grapes Grapes in Brandy Greengages, Dry Greengages in Syrup Preserving Pans are used for boiling sugar and sjTups. They are usually made of copper, and require a well-regulated heat, for which charcoal stoves and hot plates are very convenient. Pressed Beef. — Take any number of pounds of the brisket of beef, as lean as can be obtained, and nicely salted. The beef may be bought salted of the butcher, or it may be salted at home. To do this, dissolve a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre in a little water, and mix with it two pounds of common salt and half a pound of moist sugar. Rub this pickle into the meat every morning for eight days, and turn it over each day. Take it from the pan, drain, and bone it. The butcher wUl do this if desired. Put it into a saucepan with as much lukewarm water as wUl quite cover it, and put with it an onion stuck with two cloves a large carrot, and a bay-leaf. Let the water- boil up once, skim carefully, then draw the saucepan quite to the side of the fire, and sim- mer the meat as gently as possible till it is done enough. Lift the saucepan quite away from the fire, and leave the meat in the liquor for half an hour. Take it out carefully, drain it, place it between two flat dishes, and put a heavy weight on the top. Let it remain until the next day. Take off the weight, and glaze the beef. The easiest way of doing this is to buy a quarter of a pound of glaze ^of the grocer. This is sold in skins like sausages, and may be bought for 8d. or 9d. Peel the skin froni an inch of this glaze, and put it into a jar with a table-spoonful of cold water. Place "the jar in a saucepan with about two inches of boiling water, and let it steam until the glaze is dis- solved. The water in the saucepan must not be allowed to flow over into the jar. Take an