PEA PEA ( 527 ) when newly-gathered they are crisp, when old they look yellow, and when plump the peas are fine and Itirgo. If peas are shelled some hours before they are cooked they lose gi-eatly in flavour. Peas, Green (a French mode of cooking). Peas are often served in France as a dish by themselves, and eaten with bread alone. They require, therefore, to be enriched with butter and flavom-ed with seasoning. They are pre- pared as follows:—Put a quart of freshly- gathered young green peas into a bowl with plenty of cold spring water and two ounces of butter. Work well with the fingers until the butter adheres to the peas, then pour off the water, and drain the peas in a colander. Put them into a stewpan with half a tea-spoon- ful of salt, half a dozen small young onions, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. A sprig of parsley is frequently added, but it shoidd be used very sparingly, as its strong flavour destroys the fresh taste of the peas. Put the lid on the saucepan, and let the peas stew gently over a slow fu-e for thirty minutes. Eemove the onions and parsley, and add a table-spoonful of strong gravy and two ounces of fresh butter which has been kneaded to a smooth paste with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Shake the saucepan over the fire until the butter is melted and the peas properly thickened: taste them to ascertain if a little more salt and sugar are required. Serve the peas as quickly as possible, piled high on a hot dish. Probable cost, 8d. per peck, when in full season. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Peas, Green (a French mode of cooking: another way).—Melt one oxince of fresh butter in a saucepan. When it is dissolved without being the least coloured, throw in a quart of peas. Shake them over the fire for a minute or two, then pour over them as much boiling water or weak stock as will barely cover them, add half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, the heart of a lettuce finely skred, three young onions, and a small sprig of parsley. Simmer gently until the peas are tender. Take the saucepan from the fire for a minute, and in order to thicken the sauce stir in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. . The peas must not boil up after the eggs are added. Serve the peas on a hot dish with the sauce poured over them. Time, half an hour. Pro- bable cost of peas, 8d. per peck, when in full season. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peas, Green (a French mode of cooking: another way).—Take two quarts of green peas, and put them in a panful of cold water with three ounces of butter. Work the peas in the water, so that their surface may bo equally smeared with the butter, that they may adhere together. Drain off the water, take out the peas by handfuls, and transfer them to a colander. Stew them over a moderate fire with some green onions and a bunch of parsley; dust a little flour over them, and stir carefully ; next pour over the peas just enough boiling water to cover them. Boil fast till the water is evaporated, then' put in a lump of sugar, tnoiatenfd. tJiat it maybe more quickly dissolved, and a little salt. Have ready mixed two ounces of butter with some flour; stir it into the peas, and lot it be equally distributed among them. Then serve. Peas, Green la Paysanne).—Prepare the peas as in the preceding recipe. Take a handful of parsley, a few green onions, and a few cabbage and cos-lettuces, wash them, and break, instead of cutting them. Drain them from the water, and put them with the peas over a very slow fire. No other moisture than the butter will be required. Be careful, by stirring the contents of the stewpan repeatedly, that they do not burn. When done enough, add pepper and salt, and serve. Peas, Green, Boiled.—Choose peas which are young and freshly-gathered. Do not shell them until just before they are to be boiled. To boil a quart of peas, put two quarts of water into a saucepan, and with it a quarter of an ounce of salt. Let it boil, and skim it well, then thi-ow in the peas, and let them boil quickly without being covered until they are tender. As soon as this point is reached, take them at once off the fire, or they will quickly break, and their appearance be spoilt. Drain them, put them into a clean saucepan with three ounces of fresh butter, sprinkle a little salt and white sugar upon them, and shake them over the fire until the butter is melted. Serve immediately. A bunch of mint is frequently thrown into the water with the peas ; but before doing this it is well to ascer- tain if the flavour is liked, as some jjersons have a strong objection to it. Instead of being shaken up with butter, green peas are sometimes served with a handful of finely- chopped mint strewn over them in the tureen, pats of fresh butter being served separately in a cooler. Time to boil young fresh peas, a quarter of an hour; large old ones, twenty-five minutes or more. Probable cost of garden peas when in full season, 8d. per peck; field peas, 4d. Sufficient for fotir or five persons. Peas, Green, Boiled (Dr. Kitchener's recipe).—" Young green peas well dressed are one of the most delicious delicacies of the vege- table kingdom. They must be young; it is equally indispensable that they be fresh gathered, and cooked as soon as they are shelled, for they soon lose both their colour and sweet- ness. If you wish to feast upon peas in per- fection, you must have them gathered the same day they are dressed, and put on to boil within half an hour tifter they are shelled. Pass them through a riddle, i.e., a coarse sieve, which is made for the purpose of separating them. This precaution is necessary, for large and small peas cannot be boiled together, as the former will take more time than the latter. For a peck of peas, set on a saucepan with a gallon of water in it; when it boils, put in your peas with a table-spoonful of salt; skim it well, keep them boiling quick from twenty to thirty minutes, according to their age and size; the best way to judge of their being done enough, and indeed the only way to make sure of cook, ing them to and not beyond the point of per- fection, or, as the pea-eatera eay, of ' boiling