SAP SAB ( 826 ) of an inch in thickness; a largo turnip pre- pared in the siunt! manner; as also two heads of celery and two leeks sliced—these roots should bo blanched—add two small lettuces, a little sorrel and chervil. After an hour's boiling throw in a littlo sugar and three table-spoonfuls of asparagus points bhuiched of a tine green, and throw the soup into a tureen containing small crusts of a French roll rasped, cut round three-quarters of an inch wide, ^vithout the least appofiranco of crimib, and dried in a hot closet. Sapucaia Nut.—This nut is very plenti- ful in the forests of Brazil, where it gi'ows on a lofty tree. The fruit of the tree is wire-shaped and as large as a child's head, and opens with a lid which falls off. In each fruit are a number of seeds or nuts, as in the case of the allied Brazil nut. The flavour is superior to that of the Brazil nut, although, hitherto, the sapucaia nut is much less common in our shops; its form is oval, somewhat pointed at both ends, the ends being sUghtly bent in opposite directions. "Monkeys," says one writer, "are very fond of the sapucaia nut, and are sometimes caught in consequence of thrusting the hand into a capsule, and not being able to withdraw it when filled with a nut, whilst they obstinately keep hold of the expected prize." Saratoga Pudding.—Put a pinch of salt into two table-spoonfuls of flour, add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and work the whole into a smooth paste by beating it briskly with three fresh eggs. Add gradually a quart of hot milk, pour the batter into a buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Sardine Butter.—This preparation is very good spread on toast or made into sand- wiches. Take twelve sardines and wash them quickly in cold water. Scrape oflc the skin, remove the bones, and pound the flesh in a marble mortar with a piece of fresh butter, and add butter gradually till the quantity mixed in equals half a pound. Add salt and cayenne pepper to taste, and work the preparation into a smooth paste. If sardines preserved in oil— such as are imported in small bottles and boxes —are used, do not wash the fish: do nothing but scrape off the skin and remove the bones. Press the paste into a jar or into small potting- pans, and store for use. Anchovies may be pre- pared in the same way as sardines. If liked, one may add a little ground mace along with the cayenne pepper. Sardine Fritters—The following recipe for sardine fritters as made in Germany is given in " German National Cookery for Eng- lish Kitchens." " Cut slices of roll or loaf bread into equal-sized shapes. They must be a good half-inch thick, and enough of them to form a ring round the edge of a small dish. Beat two or three eggs, and mix -^vith them rather more than their measure of milk. Soak the bread slices in this, and fry them in butter a delicate pale brown. Lay the slices round the edge of your dish, letting one slice rest on the edge of tbo other. Lay poached eggs in the middle of the diah, and put on thorn the following sauce, which must bo just thick enough to spread Mince the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs quit* small. Chop fine some parsley, a little sprig of taiTagon, and some pimpernel or burnet. ilelt a piece of butter in a stowpan; put in the minced herbs, end stir them a few minutes to soften; then add salt, pejjper, and the minced eggs, with a dessert-spoonful of gravy, the same of lemon-juice or vinegar, a spoonful of capers whole, a littlo oil and mustard, and, if required, a few crumbs to thicken. Stir all together. Put a small tuft on each poached egg, and spread the rest on the wreath of sippets. Take about a dozen of sardines, bone them, and mince them small with a piece of butter and a little cayenne pepper. Divide and spread this on the sippets. Place them to warm for a minute in the oven, and serve directly after the soup." Sardine Mustard.—Take half-a-dozen sardines, remove the bones carefulty, and pound the flesh with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Mix a shallot, finely minced, with the paste. Add also two table-spoonfuls of mustard mixed with vinegar, or any sort of made mustard, two tablespoonf uls of vinegar, and the same of salad oil, together with salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Work all together till quite smooth. Sardine Salad (a German dish).—Take any cold dressed fish. Free it from skin and bone, and tear it into flakes. Put a layer of it in the centre of a dish, and sprinkle lightly over it a small portion of minced gherkins and bruised capers. Place on this a layer of sliced German sausage, and arrange on the top of the pile sardines split into halves and freed from bone and skin. Cut lettuce-hearts into quar- ters, place these round the salad, and garnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. At the moment of ser%'ing, pour over the salad a sauce prepared as follows:— Take the flesh of three sardines freed from skin and gristle. Rub this in a mortar to a smooth paste with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs; and add a pinch of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, and two table-spoonfuls each of oil, vinegar, and hght wine. Add the ingredients slowly, and beat the sauce well between every addition. Sardine Sandwiches.—Take as many tinned sardines as will be wanted. Scrape the skin lightly off each fish, split it open, cut off the tail, and remove any bones there may be. Take thin slices of bread from a stale loaf, butter these, and lay the sardines between two of them. Cut away the crust, and press the slices with the hand" to make them adhere. Cut them with a sharp knife into long narrow sandwiches, and serve on a dish covered with a neatly-folded napkin. Garnish with parsley. Sardine Sauce.—Take eight sardines, and remove the bones. Make a butter sauce ready, with water or broth, of the ordinary thickness. In this boil the bones of the fish, a bay-leaf, and a finely-minced shallot, adding some pepper, nutmeg, or mace, and a little leraon-jmce. men the sauce is properiy flavoured, strain it. and add to it the fish chopped snuUl.