( 913 ) SFE SFI some raisinB in even rounds on the inside; line it wth thin strips of crumb of bread which have been dried before the fire and well but- tered. After lining, fill the mould with al- ternate layers of raisins, sugar, and strips of bread, and let the topmost layer be of bread. Mix the well-beaten yolks of four eggs with a pint of milk, add sugar and flavouring, and pour the custai-d upon the bread. Let it soak for two hours. Bake or steam the pudding, and when done enough turn it out carefully upon a hot dish, and send sweet sauce to table with it. Time to bake the pudding, about an houi- ; to steiun it, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 4d. SuflBicient for five or six persons. Spearmint. — This species of mint is employed in salads and sauces, as well as di'ied for soups in winter. There are two varieties —the broad and the narrow-leaved; both are equally good. Spice Biscuits, Almond" {see Ahnond Spice Biscuits). Spice Cakes. —These are the French gateaux d'epice; they are made of the follow- ing ingredients:—Treacle, one pint, the very freshest butter,_ half a pound, powdered gin- ger, an ounce, powdered cinnamon, an ounce, powdered allspice, a quarter of an ounce, coriander seeds and small cardamom seeds pounded, each a quarter of an ounce, candied lemon-peel chopped very fine, two ounces, tincture of vanUla, six drops, flour, as much as necessary. These ingredients are to be thus manipulated: the treacle being set over the fire, the butter is to be added, and, suc- cessively, all the other ingredients, except the flour. Let them, when well mixed, take a single boil, stirring all the while, then set them to cool. When cold, mix in with a wooden spoon as much flour as will convert the whole into a pretty stiff paste. Butter a tin baking- dish, and lay on it with the spoon the paste in bits of the size and shape necessary to form the small cakes or nuts. Set the baking-dish in the oven. You may ascertain when these cakes are done by taking one out of the oven, and letting it cool. If, when cold, it is hard, they are done enough. These are considered the ne plus ultra of French gingerbread-nuts. Spice, Mixed, for Seasoning Sauces, Stews, &C.—Take two dozen allspice, the i-ind of three lemons, a quarter of an ounce of mace, twelve cloves, and two nutmegs. Powder the ingredients, first separately, and after- wards together, and mix with them a salt- spoonful of cayenne and three ounces of white pepper. Put the powder into a perfectly dry ancT sound bottle, cork closely, and store in a dry place till wanted. It will retain its flavour for months. Spice, Mixed (another way),—Take three quarters of an ounce of ground allspice, three- quarters of an ounce of ground black pepper, three-quarters of an ounce of grated nutmeg, an ounce and a half of ground ginger, a dozen cloves powdered, and nine oimces of salt." Mix these ingredients thoroughly, put the powder into a (fij', closely-stoppered bottle, and keep it corked for use. Spice, Mixed, for White Sauce (see Kitchen Mixed Spice, &c.). Spice Nuts (a German recipe). — Take f om- eggs and beat them up; stir in a pound of sifted sugar, half an ounce of powdered cinna- mon, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, and the peel of a lemon cut very fine. Stir these ingredients together for a quarter of an hour, then add by degrees a pound of flour and two ounces of candied peel. When this is well mixed, drop the preparation on buttered tins in small lumps. Bake in a moderate oven. Spices.—Under this head are ranged those vegetable products which are fragrant to the smeU and pungent to the palate. "All the substances classed as spices are the product of tropical climates only; none of ouj native plants, and no plants that come to maturity in the open air in this climate, possess sufficient aromatic flavour to be reckoned amongthe spices. The most valuable of these natural productions were originally found in the islands situated in the Indian Ocean, called the Spice Islands or Moluccas, and were probably conveyed from them in the most distant ages." The chief spices are pepper, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, mace, ginger, allspice, &c. Spices, Wholesomeness of.—On the use of foreign spices we may quote Dr. Paris, in his work "On Diet." "These are not," he says, " intended by Nature for the inhabitants of temperate climes: they are heating and highly stimulant. I am, however, not anxious to give more weight to this objection than it deserves. Man is no longer the child of Nature, nor the passive inhabitant of any particular region; he ranges over every part of the globe, and elicits nourishment from the productions of every climate. It may be, therefore, necessary that he should accompany the ingestion of foreign aliment with foreign condiment. Na- ture is very kind in favouring the growth of those productions which are most likely to answer our local wants. Those climates, for instance, which engender endemic diseases are in general congenial to the growth of the plants which operate as antidotes to them. But if we go to the East for tea, there is no reason why we should not go to the West for sugar. The dyspeptic invalid, however, should be cautious in their use, for they may afford temporary benefit at the expense of permanent mischief. It has been well said that the best quality of spices is to stimulate the appetite, and their worst to destroy, by insensible degrees, the tone of the stomach. The intrinsic good- ness of meats should always be suspected when they require spicy seasoning to compensate for their natural want of sapidity." Spinach.—Spinach is a vegetable of an agreeable taste, light, and wholesome. It con- tains, however, very little nourishment. It should be washed in two or three waters, then drained on a sieve instead of being dried in a cloth, as it is ver>'- delicate, and needs to bo gently handled. It is generally boiled, and served with meat as a puree, or with cream or gravy; pr it maybe pressed into a moiUd, s^ni