VER ( 1088 ) VEE ■with a pint and a quarter of milk. Bring it gently to tlie boil, and simmer it, stirring all the time, till it is tender, and the milk thick. It will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Pour it into a bowl, lot it cool, sweeten it, and 11a- voiir witli lemon and nutmeg. Add a pinch of salt, and stir in gradually tlu'oe well-beaten eggs. Butter thickly the inside of a mould. iStick raisins here and there upon it, and pour in the vermicelli and milk very gently, so as not to disturb the raisins. Let tlio mould be quite full. Place a round of buttered paper on the top, tie the pudding firmly in a floured cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and keep it boiUng quickly till done enough. Move it occasionally for the first quai-ter of an hour to prevent any of the ingre- dients from settling to the bottom. As the water boils away add more, boiling. Let the pudding stand four minutes after it is taken out of the ■water, and place it on a hot dish. Pour sweet sauce round it, and serve. If more convenient, the pudding may be steamed instead of being boiled. Time, one hour and a quarter to boil or steam the pudding. Probable cost, lOd, Sufficient for four or five persons. Vermicelli Pudding, Rich.—Simmer the rind of half a lemon and half an inch of stick cinnamon in a quart of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, let it boil, and drop into it hghtly and gi-adually four ounces of fresh vermicelli. Stu- constantly, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Turn it into a howl, and stir into it a slice of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of thick cream, and sugar to sweeten it sufficiently. Beat, first separately and afterwards together, the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs. Stir them into the pudding, pour it into a thickly-buttered pie- dish, and bake in a gentle oven. Serve with powdered sugar sifted thickly over it, and with ■wine sauce as an accompaniment. Instead of ■wine sauce, jam or fi-esh stewed fruit may be sent to table "with it. Time to bake the pudding, about an hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vermicelli Pudding with Apples.— Put a quart of milk into a saucepan with a thin strip of lemon-rind, bring it gently to the boil, remove the lemon-rind, and drop lightly and gradually into it four ounces of very fresh ver- micelli. Simmer over a gentle fire, stirring it all the time till it is quite tender and very thick. Turn it into a bowl, work into it a large slice of fresh butter, and sweeten to taste. Let the pudding become almost cold, stir into it two, three, four, or five well-beaten eggs, according to the kind of pudding required, and add a spoonful of brandy if liked. I3utter a dish, turn the pudding into it, and cover the surface with good baking apples which have been pared, cored, and thinly sliced. Press them into the pudding, so that they may be covered with the batter, and bake the pudding in a moderately-heated oven till the fruit is tender. Time to bake the pudding, three- quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. or more, according to quality. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. I Vermicelli Soup.—For eight people take a quarter of a puund of vermicelli, wliich blanch in boding water to take oH tlie taste of dust. Stmm it, and tlu-ow it into some broth tliat is boihng, otherwise the vermiceUi will stick together, and cannot bo separated unless crumbled into a thousand pieces. Mind, the vermicelli must bo boiled in Ijroth before you mix it wth any of the puree, and take care to break the vermicelli before you blanch it in the water, otherwise it will be in long pieces and unpleasant to serve up. Vermicelli Soup (another way).—Take a knuckle of veal antf a scrag of mutton, from each of which cut the flesh into small pieces aljout the size of walnuts, and mix them together with five or six sKces of lean ham. Put into the bottom of your pan about four ounces of butter, and then your meat; to which add four blades of mace, three carrots, two parsnips, two large onions with a clove stuck on both sides of each, four or five cut heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, ten morels, and an anchovy. AVhen these are prepared and mixed together in the pan, cover it very clcse, and set it over a slow fire without any water untn the gravy is dra^^•n out of the meat. This being effected, pour it into an earthen pan, and let the meat brown ; then add to it four quarts of water. Let the whole stew gently until wasted to three pints, then strain it, and add the gravy reserved. Set it on the fire, add ten ounces of vermicelli, a head of celery cut small, cayenne pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer for about six minutes. Lay a French roll in the bottom of the tureen, pour the soup upon it, strew some vermiceUi on the surface, and serve up. Vermicelli Soup (another way).—Break lightly four ounces of Italian vermicelli, and soak it in cold water for half an hour. Drain it, and drop it into three pints of boiling stock, j Add a spoonful of mixed mustard, half a tea- cupful of gTated Parmesan, a lump of sugar, and a Httle salt. Stu- frequently, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Pour into it two additional pints of stock, simmer a few minutes longer, and serve. Send some grated Pai-mesan to table with the soup on a separate dish. A Uttle sherrj- or marsala may bo thrown into the soup if liked, and will greatly improve its flavour. Time, one hour. Vermicelli Soup, Clear.—Lightly break a quarter of a pound of vermicelli, to prevent it hanging in long threads over the side of the spoon as the soup is carried to the mouth. Put it into boiling water, let it boil for five minutes, drain it, and it will be ready for the soup. If it cannot bo immediately used, cool it by putting it into cold water (if it is left in a sieve to strain while hot, it will become lumpy, and -will not again dissolve). "VMien cold, drain it again, and it will be ready for use. If the ver- micelli is not thus blanched before it is put into the soup, it will in all probability impart a cloudy look to the hquor. Boil three pints of bright, clear stock already _ seasoned and flavoured, put in the vermicelli, simmer gently till tender, and stir it now and then