BED BED ( 720 ) a l)ro\vnish-rod or piirplo colour. It is chiefly tjinploycd for pickling, and tho dwarf rod vurioty certainly nuiketi one of the most hoau- tiful pickles that can bo presented at tal)le. Both tho dwarf and large kinds aro sometinios shredded down in winter in salads, like hoet- root. In Germany, sauer kraut is prepared from all or any of the varieties. Red Champagne, British.—Take forty quarts of ripe green gooseberries, crush thoni in a tub, pour on them ten gallons of soft watf^r that has bc^en well boiled and become cold, add tlu-ee pounds of sliced beet-roots that have been boiled twenty minutes without breaking their skins, stir well ton minutes, and leave them to steep four days covered up, stirring well three times daily. Strain the liquor, and filter it through a flannel bag into the cask; add thirty pounds of best loaf sugar in small lumps, two ounces of best ginger bruised, the thin rinds of four lemons, and an ounce of best isinglass dissolved in a quart of the liquor. Leave the bung out till the fermentation has ceased, then add a quart of brandy, put in the bung, and secure it with paper and sand. Keep it in a cool cellar twelve months, then put it into champagne bottles, wii-e the corks, and seal them. It will be in high perfection in six months more, and is an excee(£ingly fine wine. Red Clary Wine.—Pick and stone forty- five pounds of good Malaga raisins, cut them small, and pour on them ten gallons of pure soft -water ; cover the vessel up close, -stirring well for twelve days, strain the liquor from the fruit, and put it into a cask upon a peck of the tops of clary when in flower, leaving the cask open imtil fermentation has ceased. Boil two quarts of the wine with two pounds of purple beet-root peeled and sliced for twenty minutes; strain this, and when cold add to it three pints of French brandy and an oimce of isinglass dissolved ; then add this to the wine, and stop it up for twelve months. It may now be bottled, and if kept six months will be very good. Longer keeping will much improve this excellent wine. Red Clary Wine (another way).—Boil twenty-five pounds of good loaf sugar with ten gallons of river or rain water half an hour, beat up the whites of ten eggs to a froth, add them, continue the boiling half an hour longer, and skim continually until the liquor is perfectly clear, adding three pounds of red beet-root peeled and cut in thick slices. "When the liquor is a beautiful bright red colour, strain it through a fine sieve into a vessel upon nearly a peck of clary- tops in flower, and two ounces of best ginger sliced or bruised well; and when nool enough work it with nearly a pint of yeast three days, stirring it well twice daily, and covering it close. Strain the liquor into the cask, which mn.st be full, that it may work over; and when tho fermentation has entirely subsided, put in an ounce of bitter almonds blanched, a quart of brandy, and an ounce of isinglass or guni iirabic dissolved in a (piaii of the wine. Then atop it up safely, put \sxt sand over the bung, and keep it fifteen months at least, after which bottle it; and in six months more it will be very rich, clear, and strong. Red Cordial Water.—Take three or four thick slices of purjilo beet-root boiled, one ouncp each of carraway and coriandevseed bruised, one ounce of cloves and cinnamon, thrco-quai-tcrs of an ounce each of Jamaica popper and nutmeg bruised, half-an-ounce of thin rind of lemon, twelve ounces of sugar- candy beaten and rolled, two quarts of proof spirit of wine, and three pints of water. Put these ingredients into a stone jar, and fastfjn the cork securely; tie bladder over it, and s< t the jar in hot water for six hours. Kliake it well daily, and keep it for a month in a wai-m room. Then strain and filter it perfectly bright; fill small bottles, cork and seal them. Red Currant.—This fruit is acceptable at the dessert, being of an agreeable acid taste. It is much used for jellies, jams, and wines. Forsyth says it is the most agreeable of all the small fruits, either for the table or the kitchen; and that it continues longer in succession than any other. According to Withering, the juice gives an agreeable acid to punch; and Professor ]\Iartyn says it was a common beverage in Paris in 1763. Its medicinal qualities are similar to those of other sub-acid fruits, allaj'- ing thirst, lessening an increased secretion of the bile, and correcting a putrid and scorbutic state of the fluids. The red currant is a native of the northern parts of Europe, and found in hedges and woods in England. The berries of this shrub in its wild state are red; cultiva- tion has produced white and pale-red berried varieties. Professor Martyn obser\'es that " the cuiTant does not seem to have been known to the ancient Greeks and Pomans, as the Southern nations of Europe have not even an appropriate name to it at this day. The old French name Groseilles d'outre iner pro- claims their having been strangers imported. Our English name of currant is evidentlj' from the similitude of the fruit to that of the Uva corinthica, the small grape of Zante, or the common grocers' corinths or currants." Red Currant Solid.—Dissolve half a pound of red-currant jelly in a pint of cream, and add a little sugar if necessary. Stir in three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass which has been dissolved in a quarter of a pint of water, whisk the mixture for a few minutes, pour it into a damped mould of earthenware— not metal—and set it in a cool place, ^^'^len "wanted, turn it out carefully upon a glass dish, and serve. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Suflicient for ^ quart mould. Red Deer Venison.—In suitable weather rod deer venison should hang three weeks before it is used, and should in all respects be cooked like ordinary venison (which see). The flesh of the red deer is highly prized by some epicures, though others consider it strong and coarse in flavour. This is, of course, a matter of taste, but whatever may be the opinion of sportsmen, ordinary housekeepers will be wise to choose