SAU SAtT ^ 828 ) and pour it over the fish, which has been pre- viously cut in pieces. Boil the whole till suf- ficiently cooked. The result is said to be much more savoury if the fish aro simply boiled in water. Sauce for Bouilli {see Pot-au-Fou).— When the bouilli or boiled beef which has been stewed in a pot-au-feu is to bo served, a sauce made as follows may be poured over it, or sent to table in a tureen as an accompaniment • - Mince a boiled carrot, and put it into a stow- pan with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a dozen button onions, two or three pickleJ cucumbera, some pickled walnuts if Hked, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Pour over these ingredients a pint of good stock, simmer all very gently together till the liquor is con- siderably reduced and flavoured pleasantb-. Add thickened brown gravy to make the requisite quantity of sauce, let the preparation boil up, and serve. If more convenient, mushroom ketchup may be substituted for the mushrooms and walnut pickle for the walnuts. Time to prepare, about three-quarters of an hour. Sauce for Freshwater Pish.—Mince half a dozen mushrooms, half a dozen onions, and a clove of garlic. The latter may be omitted. Put the vegetables into a saucepan, pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and simmer gently till the sauce is plea- santly flavoured. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, and press vsdth the back of a wooden spoon to obtain as much sauce as possible. Add a glass of claret, boil up once more, and serve. A few drops of anchovy essence may be added or not, as preferred, and the sauce may be thickened with brown thickening. Sauce for Relishing Beef Hot or Cold.—Put two tea-spoonfuls of prepared mustard into a large cup, and mix with it a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and five table-spoonfuls of good vinegar. Stir this preparation briskly for two or three minutes with a wooden or silver fork, then pour it into a tureen in which has been placed a stick of horseradish finely grated; stir the mixture again, and serve. Probable cost of horseradish, 2d. per stick. Suflicient for five or six persons. Sauce Mirepoix, or Essence of Vegetables, for Flavouring. — When stock is already prepared for sauce, and it re- quires flavouring, proceed as follows:—Take a sliced carrot, a sliced onion, two sticks of celery cut small, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjmie, and a bay-leaf, together with a shallot and an inch or two of raw ham or bacon-rind, if these are at hand. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, and stir the above ingredients briskly in this over a sharp fire until they become brightly browned. Pour over them as much stock as will cover this, and simmer gently. Add pepper and a little spice, if re- quired. A glass of wine may be stirred in or not. When the preparation is pleasantly and rather strongly flavoured, strain it off for use. A larger quantity of this preparation may be made than is needed for present use. If put in a cool place, it will keep for some days in cool weather. Time to simmer the flavourinir twenty to thirty minutes. Sauce, Store, for Cold Meat and G-ame.—Pound the flesh of live anchovies with three cloves of garlic and six shallots. Add half a spoonful of (;ayonne pejjper, Imlf a spoonful of white pepper, three bkdes of mace powdered, one giuted nutmeg, half a lemon sliced, four bay-leaves, and a sprig of basQ, Put the ingredients into a saucepan, pour over them a pint of walnut ketchup, a pint of mush- room ketchup, half a pint of good vinegar, and a quarter of a pint of soy. Simmer all gently together till the flavour of the ingredients is extracted, strain, bottle securely, and store for use. Time to boil, one hour. Sauce, Store, for Cold Meat or Fish.—Slice two cloves of garlic, put them into a quart wine-bottle, and pour over them two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, with a table- spoonful of soy, and half a pint of chilli vine- gar. Put the bottle on one side, and let it remain for six days, shaking it frequently during the time. On the seventh day fill up the bottle vnth good ordinary vinegar, and in ten days strain it off. Put the sauce into small bottles, cork these closely, and store for use. Sauce, Store, for Fish,Game, Steaks, &C.—Poimd the flesh of six fine anchovies smoothly, and with them six chopped cloves of garlic. If the flavour of garlic is disliked, shallots may be substituted, or they may be omitted. Add half a drachm of bruised cloves and half a drachm of cayenne pepper, put the mixture into a saucepan, pour over it half a pint each of mushroom ketchup, walnut pickle, and soy, and simmer all gently for ten minutes. Strain and bottle the sauce for use. Saucepans.—Under the general name of saucepans are included utensils indispensable in cookery, of different shapes and sizes, and of various kinds. A description of those generally in use will be found in another place. It may be said here, however, that the cook cannot be too careful to keep her saucepans sweet and clean, and to do this she must fill them with water the moment she has finished using them, clean them as soon as possible after- wards, on no account put them away dirty, remember to dry them before the fire a few minutes before putting them away, and keep them in a dry place. A celebrated French cook used to say that a dirty saucepan was sufl&cient to spoil the effect of a whole dinner. Besides being washed, scoured, and rinsed inside each time they are used, saucepans should be made bright outside on the upper rim, and where the fire does not touch them. When tinned saucepans are used, they should be examined constantly, and retinned as soon as ever they begin to redden, as satisfactory cookery cannot be carried on with an insuffi- ciently tinned saucepan. It will not only render whatever is cooked in it unwholesome, but will injure its colour and taste. Saucer Cake.—Mix a quarter of a pound of flour with a quarter of auound of bffi nrrow-