VEA ( 1062 ) TEA lound of this rasped moat is su£G,ciont for a ash. Boil u calf's uddor, either in yom- stock- ot or in plain water. Wlien it is done and _ as become cold, trim all the upper part, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar till it can be rubbed tlu-ough a sieve. All that part which has been thus strained through the sieve you make into a ball of the same size as the meat, which you have also roll(.d into a ball; you tlien make a panada. You must have three balls, one of udder, ono of meat, and one of panada. Veal Rissoles.—Take about three-quar- ters of a iiouud of cold roast veal, free from skin, gi-istlo, and fat, and a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon. Cut the meat into slices, then mhice very finely. Mix with the meat half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, the eighth part' of a nutmeg grated, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and three table-spoonfuls of gi-ated bread-crumbs. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cream, milk, or strong unsalted gravj% Form the paste into balls the size of a small walnut. Flour the balls, then dip them into beaten egg and bread-crumbs; let them stand an houi', then dip them in again. Fry them in plentj' of hot fat till they are lightly browned all over. Drain, them, serve on a hot dish with good gravy poured round but not upon them, and place fried rashers of bacon round them. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time to fiy the rissoles, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for thi-ee or iovix persons. Veal Kissoles (another way).—Take some cold veal, a little cold -ham, some parsley, a small quantity of thyme, a little lemon-peel, and one anchovy; chop them aU very small, and mix them with a few bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg to taste. Wet them with an egg, and make them into little balls ot- pyramids ; then dip them in egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs ; fry them brown, and serve with a good beef-gravy in the dish. Beef may be done in the same way. Veal Rissoles, Gravy for.—Put the bones of the veal broken up small, •with the trimmings and any other bones that are to be had, into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter and a large onion finely minced. Shake the saucepan over the fire till the onion is lightly browned, then pour upon them as much thin fiour and water as will barely cover them. Add a bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, an inch of lemon-rind, six or eight peppercorns, and a little sugar browning; cover the sauce- pan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the stock is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain and cool it, then clear it from fat. Add a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of cream, and also a little pepper and salt. Let it boil up, and it will be ready for serving. Time, about an hour and a half to simmer the gravy. Veal, Roast.—Veal requires to be roasted carefully if it is to be nicely browned. It is always best to fasten a sheet of oiled or buttered paper over the joint. Hang it close to a clear fire, and at the eud of twenty minutes draw it back and let it roast slowly till done enough. Baste with good dripping every quarter of an hour. Twenty miuutos before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge a little flour over the joint, and baste with fresh butter molted for the purpose in a spoon. Sprinkle a little salt over it five minutes before serving. Those joints which are not stufl'ed should have forcemeat balls sent to table with them. Ilam, bacon, tongue, or pickled pork should accompany roast veal. A little brown gravy should be poured over the joint, and a little more served in the tureen. Veal, Roast (a la Languedocienne).—Roast a joint of veal in the usual way, und baste liberally with good di-ipi)ing. Half an hour before taking it up, baste with a mixtui-e of oil and vinegar in which two ancho%'ies and five or six peppercorns have been infused. When the veal is to be served, skim the gra\y, and pour it round the veal in the dish. Veal, Roast, Sauce for.—Brown sauce is generally served with roast veal (see Yeal, Gravy for), and clear brown gravj', melted butter coloured with ketchup, tomato, sorrel sauce, and bechamel are also serA'ed with it. Or a sauce may bo prepared as follows:—Mince an anchovy, and boil it with a minced shallot in good stock till the anchovy is dissolved. Strain it, stir into it a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice and a glassful of port, let it boU, then mix it with the gra'S'y in the dish. Time, about twenty minutes to simmer the gravy. Veal RoU, Baked.—Mince finely from two to thi-ee poimds of vmdressed lean veal and one pound of good streaky bacon. Add to the mince a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a small lemon, half a tea-spoon- ful of minced thyme, a minced shallot, an oimce of finely-grated bread-criunbs, and a Httle salt— the quantity to be regulated by the qualitj'^ of the bacon. Foim the mince into a roll, cover with oUed paper, and wrap it in coarse paste made of fiour and water. Bake in a moderate oven. Tm-n it out, and serve with good brown sauce pom-ed round it {see Yeal Forcemeat, RoU of). Time to bake the roU, about two hours. Veal Rolls, Pried.-Take the remains of cold roast veal. Cut from it half a dozen slices of lean meat haK an inch thick. Brush these over with egg, cover with a thin slice of fat bacon, egg again, spread forcemeat upon them, and roU tightly. Skewer securely, egg and bread-crumb the rolls, and fry till tliey are brightly browned. Sctyo on a hot dish, and pour mushroom sauce or brown gra^y over them. Ganiish with sliced lemon and parsley. Time to fry the rolls, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Veal Sausages.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon. Mince finely, and to everj' pound of meat add a tea-spoonful of minced sage and a little pp])per and SJilt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Bind the mixture together with yolk of egg, and form it into