(613) POB POR Pork, Spare-rib of, Roasted. — A spare-rib of pork usually weighs about eight or nine pounds, and will take from two to three hours to roast it thoroughly—not exactly ac- tording to its weight, but the thickness of the meat upon it, which varies very much. Lay the thick end nearest to the fire. A proper hald spare-rib of eight pounds' weight (so called Jbecause almost all the meat is pared off), with a steady fire, will bo done in an hour and a quarter — there is so little meat on a bald sparo-rib that if you have a large, fierce fire it will be burnt before it is warm through. Joint it nicely, and crack the ribs across as you do ribs of lamb. When you put it down to roast, dust on some flour, and baste with a little hutter. Dry a dozen sage-leaves, rub them through a hair sieve, and put them into the top of a pepper-box, and about a quarter of an hour before the meat is done baste it with butter, then dust pulverised sage, or sprinkle with duck-stuffing. Some people carve a spare-rib by cutting out in slices the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When this meat is cut away the bones may be easily separated, and are esteemed very sweet picking. Apple-sauce, mashed potatoes, and good mustard, are indis- pensable. Pork, Spare-rib of. Roasted (another •way).—Sprinkle a handful of salt over the spare- rib, and let it lie for a day or two. When it is to be cooked,brush or wash the salt off, joint the meat neatly, and crack the ribs across. Put it down to a clear and steady, but by no means fierce, fire, or the little meat that there is upon it win be dried up. Dredge a little flour over it, and baste well. About a quarter of an hour be- fore it is done enough, sprinkle a little powdered sage over it, and send brown gravy and apple- sauce to table with it. Time, according to the thickness rather than the weight of the joint: ^«ly a quarter of an hour per pound, if thin. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Pork, Stewed with Vegetables (Ger- man recipe).—Cut the heait of a large savoy into quarters. Put these into a large iron stewpan with half a dozen carrots cut into lengths, three turnips halved, eight moderate- sized whole potatoes, and two pounds of fresh pork with more lean than fat in it. Season with pepper and salt, pour over them a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, cover the saucepan closely, and let them stew as gently as pos- sible until done enough. Serve the pork on a hot dish with the vegetables neatly arranged round it. Pour part of the gravy over the meat, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time to stew, from two and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pork, Stufllng for {^ee Onion and Sage Stuffing for Gccse, Ducks, or Pork). Pork, Trichinatous.—There are some dangers attending the consumption of pork, and to these we would here call attention. To the pig wo arc indebted for two of the most repulsive and dangerous worms ever introduced into the human system—the Totnia, or tape- worm, and Trichina. The latter is particularly deserving of notice, as people in this country are often in the habit of eating cold foreign sausages and uncooked pork relishes liable to contain this deadly parasite. The first notice taken of Trichina spiralis seems to have been in 1822 by Tidemann ; it was not, however, des- cribed till 1835, when it received the notice of Owen. From 1835 to 1859 it occupied pretty much the position of a curiosity, and was not regarded as dangerous. But immediately after the latter date a Prussian doctor had no fewer than six patients suffering in one year from trichinatous disease. Fear and interest were at once roused, and the excitement was augmented by the investigation of Zenker, a Prussian medical man of repute, who showed that the migrations of trichina3 among human muscles, far from being harmless, as had hitherto been ' believed, produced symptoms of the most agonising sort, and terminated the existence even of the strong and healthy within a few weeks after the unfortunate sufferers had par- taken of the contaminated pork. Shortly ^er this—namely, in October, 1863—at the little town of Helstadt, in Prussia, on a festive occa- sion, a hundred and thi-ee people dined together. "Before a month had elapsed, twenty had died of trichinatous disease, eighty were in the excruciating agonies of the fearful malady, while the remainder, not yet attacked, lived in. continual terror of the fatal worm. Case after case perished, lingeringly and horribly, as, although most of the leading physicians of the coimtry were consulted, none were able to cure or even assuage the pangs of the dying. At first it was suspected that the distemper was the result of intentional poisoning, but microsco- pical investigations of the remains of the feast revealed the cause of all the suffering and death. The damage had been done at the third course of the dinner, consisting of rostewurst, or smoked sausage meat, which on examination turned out to have been made from an ill- conditioned pig that swarmed with encapsuled worms." Facts such as these should put the public on their guard. It is a case for caution, however, and not one for unnecessary alarm, as will be seen from the following abstract of a paper read by Dr. Cobbold before the Linnaean Society :—" In England ordinary precautions will suffice to prevent the introduction of tri- chinasis. English swine are almost entirely, if not absolutely, free from this disease, and not a single case of trichinasis in the living human subject has been diagnosed in the United King- dom. Some twenty or thirty cases have been discovered post mortem, but it is most probable that all these individuals had contracted the disease by eating German sausage or other pre- paration of foreign meat." In these days, when cheapness in the article of food is too often achieved by the sacrifice of purity and care in its selection, no precautions can be un- necessary. Professor Kiihne, of Halle, who was engaged by the Prussian Government in 1865 to investigate the disease, states that "pigs affected with trichinae do not present symptoms sufficiently obvious to be recognised by the breeders. The process of boiling or roasting should be carried on with the greatest care. People should not partake of any meat that has