( 024 ) mMtiinco, liquor coutaixiiiig vogotablos muBt not bo boiled uudor a puddiny, or tho Uavour of the latter will bo ontiroly spoilt. If a proper steamer Bhould not bo at hand, a sulwtituto may bo improviH(!d for Btcaming puddini^w, 6iii., aa follows :—Turn a plato upside down in a sauce- pan, and surround it with about three inches of fast-boiling water. Place the mould con- taining tho pudding on the plate, cover tlio tiiiucepan closely, and Iceep the water gently l)oiling round it. Lay a round of oiled paper on tlu! top of the mould. Sterz Meal {see Meal, Sterz). Stew, Bachelor's (we Beef, Bachelor's Stew). Stew, English (see English Stew) Stewing.—This is a mode of cookery much favoured by French cooks. It is wholesome and excellent, as well aa most economical, not only on accoimt of the small quantity of fuel which is required to keep up the gentle simmer- ing, which alone is needed, but also because food cooked in this way, even if coarse and hard in itself, may often be rendered tender, delicious, and palatable. Inexperienced cooks too often confound stewing wit^i boiling, and thus they convert meat or poultry that would be excel- lent and delicate if properly dressed into some- thing dry, hard, and indigestible. It should be understood that when we speak of stewing anything we simply mean simmering it gently in a saucepan which has a closely-fitting lid over a gentle fire. Stewing is best done over a stove. At times when the old-fashioned kitchen range is in use, however, the cook should place her stewpan on a trivet high above the fire, and watch it constantly, in order that she may move it nearer to the flame, or fui-ther from it, as occasion requires. The ebullition, though very gentle, should be continuous. Sometimes meat to be stewed is put into a jar with a closely-fitting lid, and this is placed in a sauce- pan of fast-boiUng water. Then the gravy extracted is really the juice of the meat. The greatest cleanliness should be observed in aU vessels which are to be used for stewing. Enamelled saucepans are excellent, because they can be so easily and thoroughly cleansed. Well-tinned copper ones are, however, the best for the purpose, though well-tinned iron ones wiU. answer for ordinary cookery. The cook, however, should be particularly careful that the tinning of copper vessels is in good condition, for if it is at all worn away, the preparation stewed in it may become poisonous, and most lamentable consequences may ensue. Stewing, Mr. Buckmaster on.— Stewing is a gradual simmering. It may be done in a saucepan over the fire, or in a stone jar which will stand the fire, with a lid fitting •steam-tight. The common red iar is not to be recommended ; it docs not stand the heat, and tho glaze, which is a composition of lead, often gives way in the presence of salt. Stone jars are preferable to metal saucepans ; they can bo easily cleaned, and they retain the heat bettor. For stewing, select lean meat, free from blood. The quantity of water should be about a quart to a pound of meat; but this liquor will be very rich, and it can easily bo reduced if necessary with warm water. Add about a tea- spoonful of Sfilt to a quart of water—I think salt is best added towai-dH tho end of the. c(joking, as the tendency is to harden the meat. Warn when boihjd with salt pork will njmair. hard throughout the cooking. Bring tho water gradually to tho boil, remove all the scum, ami let tho contents simmer till the flavour of the meat is absorbed in the liquor. Remove all the fat, which can bo eaten with bre;id, or used for puddings or frying. All and every kind of meat wiU do for a stew. They may be used together or separately, according to taste or convenience. The better the meat, the l^ettcr the stew; but by careful stewing the coarsest and roughest parts will become soft, tender, and easily digested, which would not be possible by any other method of coolting. AU the gristly parts —the feet, shanks, knuckles—should be stewed. There is no other way of cooking these parts to advantage. They require time, and this is often the difficulty and objection; but what is there to prevent a woman, when the family are all sitting round the fire in the evening, think- ing about to-morrow's dinner ? The fire which warms the children will also cook their dinner. The great vice of most women, not only among the poor, but among the middle classes, is that they never think of cooking till they feel hungry. Trimmings of all kinds of meat can sometimes be purchased cheaply. A woman who has but little to spend should watch her opportunities. Sheep's feet, the shank-bones of legs of mutton, and pieces of bone and gristle, are often thrown away as useless. We used formerly to send ox tails to the tan-yard, and even now much goes there which could be turned into good food. Twopence or three- pence spent in the purchase of bones—although containing little meat, they contain 30 per cent, of gelatine, and may be made to jneld excellent food; large bones should be broken into small pieces, and allowed to simmer till every piece of bone is white and dry. I have said nothing about flavouring or thickening, or adding vegetables. As a rule, all vegetables except potatoes may be cut into slices and cooked in the stew; or, if preferred, they may be cooked separately, and added afterwards. Carrots, tur- nips, parsnips, swedes, cabbages, leeks, onions, celery, beetroot, vegetable-marrow—any or aU of these may be used in a stew. Stews, Forcemeat for {see Forcemeat for Fish, Soups, or Stews). Stews, Onions for Garnishing {see Onions, Brown, for Garnishing Stews). Stilton Cheese {see Cheese, Stilton). Stock. — Stock is the basis of all meat- sauces, soups, and purees. It is really the juio; of meat extracted by long and gentle simmer- ing, and in making it, it should be remembered that the object to be aimed at is to draw tho goodness out of the materials into tho liquor. It may be prepared in various ways, richly and Gxpensively, or economically, and recipes for all modes are given in this work. All general stock, or stock which is to be _ uscil for miscellaneous purpose?', should he simply