801. ( 896 ) SOL expensive white wiuoa. The Nonnuns use the best sparkling cider—" Sillerio de Normandie." Time to bake the solo, half to three-quarters of ;in hour, according to size. Probable cost, one thick sole, Is. iSuHicient for throe persons. Sole, Paupiettes of Fillets of.—The fai-co or forcemeat must be iTiado of whiting {see Whiting Forcemeat). Fillet a pair of soles, trim them evenly, and season them with pepper and salt. Keep the skin on the white side of the sole, but remember to scrape it well. Spread a little forcemeat on the fillets on the white side, and roll them round to make the paupiettes. Butter a piece of paper large enough to contain two or three; roll them in that paper, and do the same for the others; then put them into the oven, bake them ten or twelve minutes, and drain and make them all equal: place them in a circle on a hot dish, and garnish prettily. Serve them with the same sauce as for whitings, or white sharp sauce. Sole Pie.—Take a pair of moderate-sized soles, or, if preferred, the remains of fried or boiled soles. Lift the flesh from the bones, and place it in layers in a buttered pie-dish. Be- tween each layer put a dozen fresh or tinned oysters and the liquor; season the fish with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and lay little pieces of butter here and there upon the top. A dozen oysters will be sufl&cient for a pound of sole. Cover the dish with good pufl: paste, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, pour into it, thi-ough a strainer put into the hole at the top, as much white sauce as will moisten it. This sauce may be prepared as follows:—Make stock by boiling the fish-bones in as much water as will cover them. Strain the liquor, mix with it an equal quantity of cream, thicken with flour, and season it. The remains of cold cod may be made into a pie in the same way. When the pastry is baked the pie is done enough. Probable cost, soles, Is. 6d. to 28. per pair. Sole, Roulettes of.—Choose fine fish : remove the heads, fins, and tails. Strip them from the bone. Cut small oblong fillets; lay these in r marinade of salt, pepper, lemon- juice, and a grate of nutmeg for half an hour. Roll the fillets egg-shaped, and bind them with thread. Pack closely together in a stewpan with a little water or broth, adding some butter and lemon-juice. Cover them closely, and stew gently till done enough. Serve the roulettes in their own sauce, or glaze them brown and serve as ragoiit. Sole, Sauce for.—Mix a table-spoonful of dried flour with a good slice of fresh butter. Pour half a pint of boiling water upon the mixture, stir it well, and let it boil for ten minutes. Add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vino- gar and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar. A tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy may be added if liksd. Serve immediately. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pair of soles. Sole, Small Patties of.—Make small vol-au-vent cases in the usual way. Bake them, take off the covers, and fill them with a savoury preparation made by cutting the flesh of a cold fried sole into dice, and wanning it in thick Allemand sauce. Put the covers on the top, and serve on a dish covered with a napkin. Sole, Stewed (a maigre dish).—Skin, scale, and clean a large solo, and put it into a saucepan with an onion stuck with two cloves, fifteen black p(jpiJ(;i-c(;nis, and as many berries of allspice. Pour upon it as much boiling water as will cover it, and let it simmer gently until done enough. Take the fish up carefully with a slice, lay it on a hot dish, and keep it hot for a few minutes. Thicken the sauce with Hour and butter, and—supposing there is half a pint—stir into it half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of claret, and a pinch of cayenne. Let it boil till thick and smooth, strain it over the fish, garnish with toasted sippets, and serve very hot. Time to stew the sole, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two persons. Sole, Stewed, (another way).—Clean, skin, and scale a pair of soles, and then stew them as before with as much boiling water as will cover them, an onion stuck with two cloves, fifteen peppercorns, and fifteen berries of all- spice. Let them simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put into a separate saucepan half a pint of milk or cream, the thin rind of a small lemon, a little salt and cayenne, and a thickening of flour and butter. Strain into this sauce half the liquor in which the fish was boiled, lift the soles into it, and let them simmer in it ten minutes. Lift the soles into a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with toasted sip- pets, and serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, if milk be used, 2s. to 2s. 6d., accord- ing to the size of the soles. A pair of mode- rate-sized soles are enough for four or five persons. Sole, Stuffed and Baked (a Portu. guese recipe).—Make a little forcemeat as fol- lows :—Mince very finely six ounces of lean veal or beef thoroughly freed from skin and fat. Mix with it two ounces of finely-grated bresid- crumbs which have been soaked in milk and squeezed dry, and two oimces of shred suet, butter, or fat bacon that has been slightly fried. Pound the ingredients in a mortar with one fillet of an anchovy, a table-spoonful of picked and chopped parsley, a small onion, and a fla- vouring of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture together with the yolk of an egg. Clean, skin, and fillet a large fresh sole. Squeeze a little lemon-juice upon the fillets, spread the forcemeat upon them, roll them roimd, and tie them with tyrine. Put the roUs in a buttered dish, brush over with beaten egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, and put into the dish imder them a cupful of gravy mixed with what remains of the egg, a tea- spoonful of caper vinegar, a filleted anchovj', and a tea-spoonful of shred parsley. Cover the dish tightly, and bake the rolls in a gentle oven. When done enough, put the rolls into a hot dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish with fried parsley. Sometimes the rolls are dipped in French frjnng-batter, and fried till crisp, then baked afterwards. Time