( 868 ) SHB SHR Httlo wciik broth. Boil half a pint of Hhrimi)s, sepamtu the tish from the tihells, pound the latter, and set thorn on the fire with a piece of butter for a few minutes. Then strain tlirougli a tamis.. Add a spoonful of Hour to tlic shrimp-butter, and thin it with the liquor in which the asparagus was boiled; sot it on the lire with a httlo grated nutmeg, salt, and a piece of butter. Wlien it boils, put in the shrimps and asparagus, give them a boil up, and servo with boiled fowl, fricassee of chicken or veal, &c. Lobsters may bo dressed in the same way. Shrimp Butter, for Sauces, &c.—The shells of shi-imps which are to be potted, or served in any other way, may be utiUsed for tlavouring butter to be used for making fish sauce, and for garnishing dishes. The butter will not keep good more than a few hours. Put the shells of about two hundred and fifty shi'imps in a mortar, pound them as finely as possible, and mix with them two ounces of butter. Put the mixture into a jar, set this in a pan of hot water, and let it remain for an hour. Press it through a cloth, and put it into cold water. Lift it from the liquor, drain it, and press it through a silk sieve; work a slice of fresh butter in with it, and it will be ready for use. Shrimp Canapees.—Cut some slices of stale crumb of bread the third part of an inch thick. Stamp these out with a plain round or oval cutter about two inches in diameter, and fry the rounds in butter till they are lightly browned. Let them get cold, then spread a little shrimp butter upon them. Ornament them by placing picked shrimps upon them, and place them in a circle on a dish overlapping each other. Put a little parsley in the centre, and serve. Shrimp Cromesquis, or Kromeskies. —Divide some shelled shrimps iato small pieces, put them into a clean saucepan, with a small portion of white sauce, the yolks of two or three eggs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture over the fire for three or four minutes to set the eggs, then spread it an inch thick upon a plate, and leave it to get cold and stifP. Divide it into portions of an equal size, and form these to the shape of corks or balls. Boil half a pound of bacon for twenty minutes; let it get cold, then cut it into very thin slices of a size to cover the shrimp balls. Wrap the balls in the bacon, and, if not immediately wanted, leave them in a cool place. Dip them in frying batter, and fry them in hot lard tUl they are crisp. Drain them from the fat, and serve immediately. Garnish the dish with parsley. Shrimp Forcemeat. - Mix shelled shrimps with an equal quantity of grated bread-crumbs, and season the mixture with salt, cayenne, and poimded mace. Pound it in a mortar, soften with fresh butter, and bind together with yolk of egg. Forcemeat thus made is very excellent for filling any kind of freshwater fish, but is especially suited for pike and eel. Shrimp Patties, or Vol-au-Vents, or Bouch6es.—Prepare tlie orusts of the patties, and bake them in the usual way. Pick the shrimps, and cut the tails in two pieces. Put tlu) heads and shells into a saucepan, with a small quantity of water, and boil them gently for a quarter of an hour to extract the flavour. Tliicken the liquor with arrowroot, egg yolks, or Hour, till it is of the consistency of cream, and with this sauce moisten the shrimps' talk a little. Season the ragout with salt, if neces- sary, cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg or scraped horseradish, or two or three pounded anchovies; or leave it without seasoning. For many tastes the natural flavour of the shrimps will siu-pass all others. Take the patties or the vol-au-vent fresh from the oven, or if they are cold, heat them, then fill them with the pre- paration, after making it hot, without boihng it. A glassful of white wine may be added if liked. Send the patties to table on a neatly- folded napkin. Sometimes shrimp patties are served with bread-crumbs sprinkled over them, and without the pastry covers. Time, a minute or two to heat the patties. Shrimp Pie.—Take as many shrimps as will almost fiU the dish, pick them, and season with cayenne, pounded mace, a little salt, and vinegar or lemon pickle. A small propor- tion of essence of anchovies may be added, if liked. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, and line the edges with puff paste. Put in the shrimps, pour over them a glassful of hght wine and a small cupful of rich gravy, cover the dish with puff paste, and bake in a well-heated oven. For a maigre dish the gravy must be omitted. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimp Pie (another way).—Pick three pints of shrimps from the shells. Mix with them two or three anchovies, washed, boned, and shred very fine, some shred parsley, two chopped shallots, and a handful of verj' small bleached mushrooms. ■ Butter well the bottom of a pie-dish with good fi-esh butter, and put the shrimps into it, seasoning them with a little black pepper and some cayenne; if not salt enough add a little, making allowance, however, for the salt of the anchovies, for if too salt the pie will be worthless. Place over the shrimps several Imnps of fresh butter, amoimting in all to a quarter of a pound, also two hard-boilod eggs, shelled and cut into quarters. Pour into the dish a good glassful of sherry, and also a good glassful of broth, in which has been pre- viously mixed a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of soy. Put a good substantial crust over the pie, and bake m a quick oven. Shrimp Pudding (a Danish recipe).— This is made in the same way as spmach pud- ding {see Spinach Pudding), only instead ot using spinach take a pint of picked shnmps. Chop the shrimps smaU before mixing them with the bread and eggs. This pudding is eaten with shrimp and asparagus sauce. Shrimp Pudding (for Break-fast or Lun- cheon).—Take freshly-boiled shrimps, shell