( 724 ) EE! JELET? a half. A Lirgo number of those vossols are aiTiingod in an oxcuvation in the ground, be- tween thirty and forty foot square, and with a depth of two feet, tlio bottom being covered to tlio depth of ton or twolve inches with tlio stalks of Indian corn or with sugar cancm. Tlioso pans are visited at sunrise, and the ice is 8ei)arated from tlio water, and packed as tiglit as possible in a deep cavity or pit, well screened fi-om the heat. Refrigeration, Food Preserved by. —" Refrigeration as applied to animal sub- slnmcos, with a view to their preservation, is an important subject, though, strictly speaking, a substance temporarily kept from decomposition by being surrounded by a temperature suf- hcicutly low for the purpose, can hardly bo called 'preserved food,' as by this term is generally meant an article preserved in a re- ceptacle, or otherwise, which is not subject to decomposition through atmospheric influences. The first patent for the preservation of food by means of refi-igeration was taken out in 1845; since that time many expedients have been adopted by the use of ice, and by arti- ficial methods of lowering the temperature by evaporation, with a view to the impor- tation of fresh meat from Australia, America, and elsewhere into this country. The object of all the contrivances is the same, namely, to secure a sufficiently low degree of temperature for the preservation of the meat dm-ing the voyage, and to produce it at such a cost as would repay the importers." An eminent dietetic authority who took a deep interest in the preservation of meat re- marks:—"The application of cold is, in my opinion, the most fitting mode of solving the problem, and it should be effected either by inducing the inhabitants of countries where ice is abundant in the cold season, to grow animals for our markets, or by storing large quantities of ice in an economical manner at the ports of other meat-producing coimtries. We need not despair of seeing the time when the whole carcase of an animal will be imported in a state fit to be cut up in oxrr shops for immediate sale, and when the exporters from Australia will supply themselves with'ice for this purpose from the southern hemisphere, or when the pastures of the North American con- tinent will become our chief, as they may be our nearest, sources of supply. Canada oft'ers unbounded facilities for this pui-pose, by reason of its great ice-fields, its pastures, and agricul- tural population, as well as its nearness to this country; and should the present high price of meat continue it will induce commercial men to organise a system, both of feeding animals and of exporting the meat in ice, which may be very profitable to the Canadians." The preservation of food by keeping it at a low temperature is sufficiently well known. In such countries as Russia, where the climate during winter is one long frost, the preservative action of cold is largely taken advantage of. Cattle, poultry., &c., are killed when the frost begins, allowed to become frozen through, and in this conditjon brought to market and sold :it the large winter fairs. Fisli are dealt with Ijx tho ^me fashion, and are kept for months quite fresh and wholesome. Provisions thuB preserved only require the precaution of being gradually tlmwed before use by immersion in cold water. Refrigerating Machines. —The manu- huaure of ice by machinery is one of the most interesting applications of science, and tliis hits now become a practicfil trade. In 1851, M. Kezet, of Itouen, volatilised ether in a closo vessel by exhausting the air from its surface. After the air, the ether-v.-ipour itself was ex- hausted by a pump, then cond(;n)ied by the aid of cold water, and forced back into the same vessel, by which a continujil absorption of caloric from the surrounding bodies was effected, and a continual refrigeration obtained as long as the circulation of ether waa kept up by working the pump. Harrison's ice-making machine and its im- proved form by Mr. Siebe is a particular ap- pUcation of the exhausting air-pump. The working of the process is as foUows:—A quan- tity of sulphuric ether contained in a close vessel surrounded by a current of salt water, is made to pass rapidly into a state of vapour by the action of a large air-pump driven by steam- power, the necessary amount of heat requisite to effect this change in the ether is abstracted from the surrounding salt-water casing, which is thus cooled to a temperature below the freezing point of water, and is then made to circulate through a box containing the water to be frozen in tin moulds arranged on a tra- velling frame, which moves in a direction con- trary to the refrigerating current. The ether- vapour removed at every stroke of the pump is passed over to a condenser, where it reassumes the "liquid form and is returned to the evapora- ting vessel. The machine invented by M. Carre appears to be much more effective. Messrs. Carre and Co.'s ice-making machines are of two kinds, one being continuous and the other intermittent in action; but the principle involved is the same in both cases, viz., the production of cold by the volatilisation of a gas which is easilj' liquefiable, and at the same time in a high degree soluble in water. , Dr. Meidinger, of Baden, has constructed a little apparatus for freezing cream or cooling wine, and which has been very favourablj' re- ceived, as being simple, elegant, and automatic. The freezing mixture consists of finely-poimded ice and a saturated solution of table salt. Since, however, the melting ice necessarily dilutes this solution, a reservoir containing dry salt is introduced in such a manner as to constantly supply the deficiency of salt and keep the solu- tion unaltered upon the point of saturation. For this purpose Dr. iMeidinger advises tlie following arrangement:—In an external cylin- drical vessel, a bad conductor of heat and very much like a water-cooler, an annular perforated vessel is suspended to contain the dry salt above mentioned. A slightly conical metallic cup re- ceives the material to bo acted upon, and fits into the circular opening left for the purpose. The mush of pounded ice and brine is poiired into the outer vessel, up to a certain mark, just enough to rtiake it rise to the very rim as soon as thfl cup containing the cream &o., is elowly