FBJl ( 626 ) PEA sugar, and a small lump of butter. Put them | into a stowpan with the atalk onda uppermost, and pour over thorn three ouiicos of cliirilied butter; cover the saucepan closely, and lot them stew gently until they are quite soft without being broken, then lift them out carefully, 1111 the hollows with red currant jelly, and arrange the peiirs on a dish, with the narrow parts meet- ing in the centre. Pile half a dozen macaroons which have boon soaked in sherry in the centre of the fruit, pour the syrup round it, and serve. Time to stew the pears, about one hour. Proba- ble cost, e.xclusive of the sherry, is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Pears Stewed in Vinegar (for Dessert). —Pare smoothly two pounds of small winter pears, cut them in halves, and take out the cores. Boil a pint of vinegar, twelve cloves, twelve ounces of sugar, and a stick of cinnamon for ten minutes. Put the pears into the syrup, and let them simmer very gently imtil they are sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a pin. Take them out carefully, drain them, and put them into jars. Boil the syrup quickly until it is quite thick, and when it is cold pour it over the fruit, which must be covered with it. Tie down the jars with bladder, and store in a cool diy place. At the end of a week look | at the fruit, and if the syrup has turned their colour boil it over again. Time to stew the pears, until tender; the time will vary with the quality of the pears. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Pears, Stewed, To Colour.—This may be done in several ways. Port wine and a few drops of liquid cochineal will impart a bright red colour. Or some fine white candied sugar dissolved in a wine-glassful of port wine may be added to a moderate-sized dish of pears. Or pears may be stewed in a block-tin vessel, which wiU give a fine red. Pears, The Pips of {see Apples and Pears, The Pips of). Pears, Wine of.—A sort of wine in which pears were employed is thus described by Mr. Booth in his work on wine making. " In the North of France, having hedted fifty- live pounds of the juice of wild pears to 180 degrees, I added about a tenth of that weight of raisins, and bunged up the whole in a cask. In a short time the heat of the liquor had fallen to 77 degrees, when I drained out the raisins, bruised them, returned them into the must, and closed the cask, so as to allow the fermentation to take place. A fortnight after, the wine, or perry, was racked into stone cans, and, after standing three months in the cellar, it was reckoned by good judges equal to the best wine from grapes." Pears with Rice.—Wash six ounces of best Carolina rice in two or three waters, put it into a saucepan with a quart of milk, some white sugar, and a quarter of a stick of vanilla, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Turn it upon a hot dish, and lay upon it four or five good baking pears which have been cored, halved, and stewed until quite tender with three pints of water, four ounces of sugar, and a quarter of a stick of vanilla. Boil the syrup in which the pears were ' i stewed very quickly for a few minutes to thicken it, and pour it over the rice. Serve eitlier liot or cold. Time, one hour and a bilf or more to stew the pears. Probable cost, 9d. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Peas.—Tlie pea has been cultivated as a culinary vegetable from a very early period. The Greeks prized it highly, and grew it ex- tensively. It is uncertain when it was first cultivated in Britain. Long after its introduc- tion it was rare, and in the time of Elizabeth we find it imported from Holland, most hkoly in a ripe state. Either as a horticultural or as an agricultural product the pea is of great im- portance. In a green state the seeds are held to be one of our most esteemed vegetables, when boiled; when ripe they are much used in forming a favourite and nutritious soup. Though a great many varieties of peas have been produced by cultivation, yet they may all be ranged under one or other of two divisions— white, or yellow, and grey peas. Of the former the choicest kinds are grown in gardens to be eaten green, but vast quantities are also cul- tivated in the fields, and allowed to ripen for drying. Grey peas are coarse in flavour, and are used solely as food for horses and cattle, i Peas are sown in the garden at different periods so that they may be fit for gathering in succes- sion. They are usually divided into early and late peas; the former, which constitute one of the great luxuries of the beginning of summer, are often forced on hot-beds. The peas, how- ever, which are best in quahty are those which have been brought to maturity by the natural heat of summer. Peas, Asparagus Heads as {see Aspargugus Heads as Peas). Peas "Brose."—"In the West of Scot- land, especially in Glasgow," says Dr. Andrew in the "Cyclopaadia of Domestic Medicine," &c., "' peas brose,' as it is called, is made of the fine flour of the white pea, by forming it into a mass merely by the addition of boiling water and a Uttle salt. It is a favourite dish with not only the working classes, but is even esteemed by many of the gentrj'. It was in- troduced into fashion chiefly by the recom- mendation of Dr. Cleghom, late Professor of Chemistry in Glasgow University. The peas brose is eaten with milk or butter, and is a sweet nourishing article of diet, peculiarly fitted for persons of a costive habit, and for children." Peas, Chick.—^This is a small variety of pea, little known in Britain, but much cul- tivated in the South of Europe. The seeds are not softened by boiling. They are sometimes parched in a frying-pan in Egypt and S>Tia, where they are held to be a conA enient food for travellers bound on long expeditions. In Italy and the South of France they are occasionally roasted, and made to do duty for coffee. Peas, Green.—To have green peas in perfection, care should bo taken to ohtim them young, frcshlv-gathered, and freshly- shelled. The condition of the peas may bo kno^vn from the appearance of the shells. ' When the peas are young the shells are grepn,