SWE SWE ( 950 ) aiiartcrs of an hoiu', according to size. I'roh- ablo cost, Is. Gd. to os. each. Suliiciont for a niodoratc-sizcd dish. Sweetbreads, Vol-au-Vent of.—Soak two largo tiuo 8\v( ctl)rcads in water for a couple of hours. Boil thorn quickly for ton niinutos, and tlu-ow them into cold water. When cool, dry theiu perfectly, cut them into small pieces, and dredge flour upon them. Melt two ounc(3S of butter in a saucepan, put in the pieces of sweetbread, and add the tliird of a pint of white stock, the strained juice of a lemon, two table- spoonfuls of sherry or madeii'a, a bunch of and a tew Bticks of celery, and fry these vegetables in hot fat till tliey are hghtly browned. Drain away the fat, put the sweet- breads upon the vegetables, and add as much stock as will barely cover them, together with a little salt and cayenne, a small lump of sugar, the thin rind of lialf a lemon, as much gi-ated nutmeg as will he on a threepeniay-piece, a small blade of mace, four allspice, and lialf a wine-glassful of brandy. Let tlie sauce boil quickly, skim carefully, and then simmer the sweetbreads till done enough. Take them up, put a little piece of fresh butter on each, and place them in the oven to keep them hot. Put into the gravy a dozen small mushrooms which have been skinned and cleaned, and add a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a little brown thickening. Put the sweetbreads again into the sauce, and let them simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve on a hot dish with the sauce poured round them. Time to simmer the sweetbreads, half to three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sweetbreads with Truffles.—Prepare the sweetbreads in the usual manner, flour them, and bake in a gentle oven till they are lightly browned. Baste frequently. Whilst they are baking, prepare the sauce to be served with them as follows :—Peel half a dozen truffles, and cut them into slices about the third of an inch thick. Put these in a saucepan with a large wine-glassful of marsala, the strained juice of a lemon, and a httle salt and cayenne. Let them simmer gently a few minutes, then add a quarter of a pint of good stock. Thicken the gravy with brown thickening, and let it boil till smooth. Put in the sweetbreads, let them simmer twenty minutes longer, and serve verj,- hot. Time, altogether, one hour. Probable cost of sweetbreads, Is. 6d. to 5s. each. Sweet Creams.—A variety of rich and dehcate preparations are included under this denomination. In all, cream is the principal article which enters into their composition. These dishes generally take their distinctive name from the flavouring ingredients, and it is imder these headings that they must be looked for. Sweet Herbs.—The sweet herbs most frequently used in cookery are parsley, thyme, marjoram, sage, basil, savory, and mint. When they are not stored for use they may be pur- chased of the herbalist or greengrocer, or they may be bought dried and in bottles of the grocer or Italian warehouseman. When it is recommended that a bunch of sweet herbs is to be used, it is to be understood that a handful of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, and a bay-leaf are to be taken. To these a bunch of sweet marjoram and a little piece of garlic about the size of a pea may be added, men these ingredients are to be stewed in soups or sauces they should be tied securely in a bunch with the parsley outside. When thus fastened together they are often spoken of as a fagot or a bouquet garni. ^ A properly-made fagot is about three inches long. Sweet Herbs, Omelet of. - Prepare the omelet in the usual way. {See Omelet,