TUB TXTJEl ( 1008 ) toa-spoonful of brown thickening. Put in the giblets onco more with the Uver, and Hiinnicr all goutly for tun niinutos. Arrungo tliu gihlots noiitly in tho contro of a dish, pour the gntvy over thoni, and servo very hot. Any kind of vegetables may accompany this dish. Time, one hour and a half to simmer tho giblots. Suilicient for throe or four persons. Turkey Giblets with Turnips and Potatoes.—Prepare the giblets as above. Take half a pound of streaky bacon, and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Fry ihese in a littlo butter till they are lightly browned. Lift them out, then put in the giblets, and fry them in the same butter. Pooi- gravy over them, and simmer gently as in the last recipe. Cut three or four large turnips to tho shape of corks, and peel six or eight button onions. Put them into boiling water for five minutes, di'ain and diy them, fry them in one ounce of butter till they are lightly browned, and put them aside. Peel a dozen small potatoes, and trim them neatly. Skim, strain, and thicken the gravy in which the giblets are stewed, and put in with the bacon fried vegetables, soon enough for them to be sufficiently dressed at the same time as the meat. They will require from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to age and size. Arrange the giblets neatly in the centre of a hot dish, put the vegetables round them, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. The wings only of turkeys are often stewed in this way. Time, one hour and a half. Sufficient for three or four persons. Turkey, Hashed,—Cut the remains of a cold di-essed turkey into neat slices, dredge a little flour over them, put them into a stewpan, pour over them any sauce that may be left, and add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, if requu-ed. Shake the pan over the fire until its contents are quite hot, but do not allow them to boil. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let the hash simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Cut the forcemeat-balls into slices, and warm these in the oven or before the fire. Arrange the turkey neatly on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with alternate slices of forcemeat and toasted sippets. A spoonful of pickled walnuts, pickled mushrooms, kernelled olives, or minced gherkins, simmered in the sauce, will pleasantly vary the flavour of the hash. When there is no sauce left from tho previous day, a little may be made as follo\ys :— Put the skin, bones, and trimmings of the turkey into a saucepan with a pint of stock or water, a shallot, a spoonful of parsley, four or five cloves, and two or three sUccd mushrooms. Simmer the sauce gently for half an hour, strain it, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and thicken >vith the crushed liver of the turkey and a little brown thickening, before sending to table, a spoonful of lemon- juice may be added or not. Time, half an hour, exclusive of the sauce. Turkey, Marinaded and Broiled.— Parboil a young turkey, and when cold cut it into neat joints. Bone these, and restore them to their original form. Lay them in a marinade made with four tulile-spoonful.'i of vinegar, four table-spoonfuls of water, two table-spoonfuls of oil, three finely-minced shallots, two tea-spoon- fuls of salt, and one of pepper. Let them ho in this twelve liours, and turn them over two or three times tliat they may bo equally seasoned. Drain them, dip them twice in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear tire. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Send to table with them a sauce prepared as follows:—Boil two eggs for ten minutes; put them in cold water for five minutes, and^ afterwards put the yolks into a mortar with four finely-minced sliallots, a tea- spoonful of chopjjed tarragun-leaves, a tear spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Pound the ingredients to a smooth paste, and then add very gradually, first by di-ops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, thi'ce table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, two of best vinegar, and one of chilli vinegar. Beat the sauce for a minute or two between every addition, and send it to table in a tm-een. Time to broil the joints, about a quarter of an hour. Px-obable cost, tm-key, 68. or Ss. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey, Minced.—When a turkey has been so far used that neat sUces cannot be cut from it to make a hash, the remains may be minced as follows:—Cut ofE the meat, free it from skin, bone, and sinew, and mince it finely. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and put it into a stewpan with sufficient white sauce to moisten it. Let it simmer gently without boiling till it is quite hot, stirring all the time. Turn it upon a hot dish, and garnish with poached eggs and toasted sippets placed alternately. When the white sauce is not at hand, a httle may be made as follows :—Put a quarter of a pint of stock into a saucepan wdth a thin strip of lemon-rind. Let it simmer gentlj a few moments till it is pleasantly flavoured with the lemon. Strain, and add gradually a dessert-spoonful of flour which has been smoothly mixed with three or four table-spoon- fuls of milk or cream. Stir the sauce gently over the fixe for a few minutes till it is quite thick, and add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg if required, and after it is taken from the fire stir half an ounce of fresh butter into it imtil dissolved. Time, a few miuutes to heat tho mince. Turkey, Old, The Best Way of Dressing.—Stuff the turkey with veal force- meat, and truss it for boiling. Cut a pound of lean bacon into dice, and fry these in a quarter of a pound of butter over a clear fire tiU tliey are lightly browned. Put in the turkey, breast downwards. Cover the saucepan closely, and let it steam gently for an hour. Lift it out, dredge two table-spoonfuls of flour into tho butter, and stir it briskly witli the back of a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth jiaste. Add gradually tliree or four pints of boihng stock, put in the turkey, and with it four or five large; carrots sliced, four turnips, a dozen button onions, a largo bunch of pareley, two bay- leaves, three or four sprigs of thj-me, and a little pepper and stilt. Let all simmer gently together for four liours. Lift Iho turkey out. and ke.jj) it \ti. V:it the vegetables and s.iuoe