( 900 ) SPA SPA preferable to that of Cliina, and is free from the sweet treacly flavour which distinguishes the latter. Spanish Busts.—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg and pow- dered cinnamon, and also six table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and work them into a paste with four well-beaten eggs. Drop the mixture in knobs upon a floured tin, and bake these until done enough. When half-baked, brush the surface with milk. If liked, half a pound of currants may be added to the buns, and then an additional egg or a little milk will be required. Time to bake the buns, about twenty minutes. Spanish. Buns (another way).—Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Beat four eggs thoroughly, and work them into the nuxture with two table-spoonfuls of rose- water and as much mUk as wiU form a thick batter. Knead into this a quarter of a pint of yeast, cover the bowl, and leave the dough on the hearth all night. The next morning knead it again, and let it rise a second time. Butter some shallow tins, fill them three-parts full, and bake the buns in a moderate oven. When done enough, let them get cold, sift powdered sugar upon them, and -with a sharp knife cut them into squares. Spanish Cakes.—Blanch four ounces of sweet almonds and six or seven bitter ones, and pound them to paste with orange-flower water. Mix with them six ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, half a pound of dried flour, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon. Break six eggs, free them from specks, and whisk them thoroughly. Put them into a chocolate mill, and add gTadually the dry ingredients, together with two table-spoonfuls of rose- water and two table-spoonfuls of light wine. Mill the mixtm-e between every addition, and for some time after all additions have been made, and tiU the batter is very light. Butter a pan, and bake the cake in a slow oven. Probable cost, 2s. for a cake this size. Spanish Cakes (another way).—Rub six ounces of butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon! Work the mixture into a paste with two well- beaten eggs, roll it out the third of an inch thick, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake these in a moderate oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Spanish Cakes (another way). —Put half a pint of water, a pinch of salt, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and two table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar into a delicately clean saucepan over a gentle fire. Stir the mixture until it begins to boil, then draw it from the hro, and dredge into it five ounces of dried flour. Stir it briskly till it forms a soft, firm paste. Add any kind of flavouring, imd work in —one at a time—throe well-beatfm eggs. Form the paste into balls the size of a ^^■t^lnx^t, brush these over with beaten egg, and sprinkle upon them chopped almonds which have been shaken in a small portion of the white of one of the eggs mixed with pounded sugar. Bake the cakes in a slow, steady oven, and when they are lightly coloured, they are done enough. If liked, a spoonful of jam maybe introduced into the centre of the cakes before they are sent to table. Spanish Chestnut Soup.—Take fifty large Spanish chestnuts. Throw them into a pan of warm water, and when this is hot enough to bum the fijagers take the nuts out, peel and scrape them, and throw each one as it is done into- a pan of cold water. When all are ready, wipe the chestnuts, cover them with good stock, and let them simmer gently tUl they break when touched with a spoon or fork. Drain and crush them, mix with them a quart of stock, and rub the soup through a fine sieve. Add as much salt, cayenne, and mace as will flavour it pleasantly. Boil it up again, mix with it ofE the fire a quarter of a pint of boiling cream, and serve immediately. If its sweetness is not objected to, the whole or part of the stock in which the chestnuts were boiled may be added to the soup. If brown soup is preferred instead of white, the chestnuts, after being scalded, peeled, and scraped, may be steamed with two ounces of butter, a sliced onion, half an ounce of loaf sugar, and a little pepper and salt. When tender, they should be drained and crushed, mixed with a quart of good brown gravy, and then boiled and rubbed through a fine sieve reversed. The puree, when made hot, will be ready for serving. Time to boil the chestnuts, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Spanish Cream—Boil half an ounce of ismgiass m a quarter of a pint of milk till it is dissolved. When nearly cold, strain it through muslin, and mix with it a custard made of a quarter of a pint of milk, half a pmt of double cream, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, any flavouring that may be pre- ferred, and an ounce of white sugar. Stir it untU nearly cold, pour it into a damp mould, and put it in a cool place till set. When wanted for use, dip it into hot water for half a mmute, shake it well to loosen the edo-es place the dish upon the mould, and turn it°out quickly. Care must be taken that the custara docs not curdle. Sufficient for a pint and a half of cream. Probable cost, if made with cream, 2s. Spanish Ham.— The following is a Spanish cook's recipe for boiling a Spanish ham:—"Put the ham into cold water to soak for sixteen or eighteen hours; scrape and trim it well, putting it into cold water to simmer. Add to the water a tea-cupful of vinegar and a large tea-cupful of brown sugar; simmer five hours. _ A pint of sherry wine put into the water instead of the vinegar improves the fla- vour of the ham." Spanish Ham (another way).—Soak the ham in cold water for a couple of days before cooking it. Take it up, scrape it well, trim it neatly, put it mto a stewpan, with as much cold