( 766 ) BIO BIG Rice Ttirban.—Prepare the rice as in tlie rei'ipe, Kico, Casserole of. Cut some apples into quarters, and stew them in syrup. Take pirticular care that the quarters are kept whole. Dish the rice; put a gallipot in the ci'ntre, to form a vaciincy, into which you are afterwards to pour a vanilla cream. Dress the rice round the gallipot, and level it with the back of a spoon. Next place the apples round .the rice, till you have reached the summit of it, .and put the whole into the oven, but only leave it there time enough to dry up the syrup which sticks round the apples. Next decorate with sweetmeats of different colours, such as greengages, apricots, and cherries , and when you are ready to send up, remove the gallipot, imd fill the vacancy with the vanilla cream. Rice, Varieties of.—"NVhat is known in England as cargo rice is a Bengalese variety, having a reddish cast and rather coarse-looking. The unusual size and sweetness of the grain, however, cause it to be esteemed by the Hindoos above all other kinds. The red rice, sometimes seen in American shipments scattered among the white grains, is not a distinct variety, like that of the Ben- galese, but is the result of careless cultiva- tion. Seeds of the whitest kinds, allowed to fall into the earth at harvest, and to lie there all the winter, will mature the next year into red rice. Its presence is regarded as a blemish. The small variety known as Patna, and remarkable for the slendcrness and whiteness of the grain, is no doubt the best known and most highly esteemed in Europe of all the liastem importations. The Carolina rice, acknowledged to be the best in the world, is cultivated in its greatest perfection at Wacamaw, near Georgetown, .South Carolina, and on the Savannah and Altamalia rivers; but can be produced in equal perfection along the tideways of the Floridas, as well as of Carolina and Georgia. Of the many sub-varieties in favour with American rice-planters the two most highly prized are the white and the golden, so called from the colour of their chaff. Both kinds produce abundant crops, and turn out beautiful grains; but the white is preferred by some planters as being more prolific, and better suited to a highland or semi-highland culture; and the golden is pre- ferred by others as better suited to tide-water culture, and as furnishing more pearly grain. In India the varieties of rice are very nu- merous. Xo less than one hundred and sixty- one are enumerated in Moon's " Catalogue of •Ceylon Plants" as being known in that island. But the finest rice in the world is that raised in North and South Carolina, in the United States, whore the prevalence of swampy lands and a rich vegetable soil renders its cultivation «a8y and very profitable. The rice of Carolina is remarkable for its pure white colour and large size, and it is most valued as an article of food. Rice Waffles.—Boil a quarter of a pint of rice in ;i very little watfT till it is tender. Drain it, and beat it well while hot with an ounce of butter. Add six ounces of flour, the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, and as much milk as will form a batter—a little less than a pint will be required. Beat the whites of the eggs till tirm, and add them to the batter at the last moment. Be sure to beat aU well together, and to make the batter lighter pour it backwards and forwards from a good height for a few minutes. Make the watfie-irons hot, rub them over in every part with dissolved butter, and put a large spoonful of the mixture into them for each cake. Close the iron, and set it over a stove, or over hot coals, turn it over at the end of six or eight minutes, then open it, and if the cake is nicely coloured and leaves the ii'ons easily it is done enough. When pouring in the batter be careful to leave room in the iron for rising. Time to bake the waffles, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, for this quantity. Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice Waffles (another way).—See Waffles, Kice. Rice-Water.—Put seven pints of water to boil, add to it two ounces of washed rice, two ounces of sugar, and the peel of two-thirds of a lemon; boil gently for three-quarters of an hour; the liquid will reduce'to live pints, strain through a colander, and the lice-water will be ready. The rice may be left in the beverage or made into a pudding, or by the addition of a Little sugar or jam it will be found very good for either childi'en or invalids. Rice, Water.—The water rice {Zizania aquatica) is abundant in Wisconsin and other parts of North America, on the swampy margins of streams in shallow water. A gently-flowing current, where the water is from two to six or eight feet deep, is the most favourable habitat for this plant, which forms an important article of food among the Indian tribes. They obtain it by paddling a canoe among the plants, when, with a hooked stick, they draw the stems OA'er the canoe and beat ofl' the grain. The harvest only lasts for a very few days, as, when ripe, the gi-ain is shaken oflE by the slightest touch, and if the wind should blow hard for a day or two the rice is all lost. It is gathered both " in the milk" and after it is mature. The Indians take it to theii- camp, and put it into pans, when it is roasted until the husks become dry and reddish; they then place it in sacks, and pound it by striking on the outside so as to separate the grain from the husk. It is winnowed, and is then ready for use. Those who have tried it prefer the Zizania to the ordinary rice of com- merce.—Gardener's Chronicle. {See also Rice, Canadian.) Rice Water, for Invalids.—Wash two ounces of rice in several waters, boil it gently for two hours and a half, and stir frequently. Strain it through a fine sieve, and rub through the glutinous part, but not that which is firm. When the liquor is cold it is ready for use. A table-spoonful of raisins is sometimes boiled with the rice. If the water is wanted quickly, boil three ounces of rice for half an hour in a, quart of water.