TAB TAD ( 965 ) T Table Beer, or Small Ale (Dr. Kitchiner's .recipe).—To make four eighteen- gallon barrels, or seventy-two gallons, begin at night: have the water boiling by nine o'clock. For the quantity of three bushels, draw off into the mash-tub eighteen gallons of boiling water, and let it stand till it comes down to l)etween 160° and 170° of heat, or till you can see your face well in it; then pour in the malt, having one person to stir it all the time it is pouring in; continue to stir it for five or six minutes; let it stand about half an hour, then add thirty-three gaUons of water from 170° to 190° : cover up at about ten o'clock, and let it .stand till six next morning, then draw it off. If the first part is not quite bright, return it into the masb-tub. "When the whole is drawn off, put thirty-three gallons of nearly-boiHng water, mash for some minutes, cover it up, and let it stand for one hour. The third mash the .same. When the third mash is in the mash- tub, clean the copper, and make it nearly dry, then take the first wort and part of the second (if the copper is sufficiently large), add the hops, and boil for about a quarter of an hour (I reckon from the time it absolutely boils). Draw off one-half, or one-third, according to the quantity, and fill up with the remainder of the wort; let this boil nearly an hour, draw off a part, and continue to fill up till the whole is boiled. This is much less trouble than to make two or three separate boilings. Put your oeer to cool as fast as you draw it off from the copper. When you can get it down to 50° or 60°, you may put it together : the mash-tub having been cleared of the grains, and well washed, will make a good working tun. Let it stand till you find it about 60° or 65°, when you may add the yeast. About a quart of good fresh yeast ' wll be sufficient; if not quite fresh, three ))int8. The best way to add the yeast is to put it into a wooden bowl, and stir it well with a whisk; add, as you stir it, about a handful of flour : let some of the yeast from the bowl run over into the beer, and let it swim quite full. Cover up; keep the room from 50° to 60°. WTien the head begins to fall, which may be from twenty-four to even sixty hours, skim off the yeast, stir it well, add about a double hand- ful of salt with a little flour before you stir it up, and then barrel. It will work in the barrels from two to ten days, according to the weather and other circumstances. As it works the barrels must be filled up twice a day with some of the beer you have left, or if you are short in your brewing from any you have in tap. When it has nearly done working, which you may know from the yeast appearing wet or frothy, add two or three handfuls of the old hops to each barrel; stir them well, and let them stand for about twelve hours; bung down, and in about twelve or fifteen days you ought to have beer as bright as wine. The hops shoiild be soaked the night before in three or four gallons of cold water, and the sugar melted in an iron saucepan and put into the copper about a quarter of an hour before- you draw it oft". It is customary with some to make one sort of beer only—if you make ale and table beer you generally rob one or the other. Five bushels of malt and ten or twelve pounds of sugar will make seventy-two gallons of excellent ale; about one pound of hops to each bushel of malt is the usual quantity; but for beer to be kept during the summer half a pound to the bushel will not be found too much. Table Beer (another way).—On three bushels of malt pour thirteen gallons of hot water. Cover it up for half an hour, then mash; let it stand two hours and a half, and then draw off the h'quor. Again add to the malt another thirteen gallons of water, and pro- ceed as before. A final mashing with a third thirteen gallons of hot water will complete this part of the operation. Now take a pound and a half of hops, and let them boil an hour with about a pailful of wort obtained as above. Strain off the liquid, and add to the rest. When sufficiently cool add about one quart of yeast. Now place the wort in the fermenting tun; when it has ceased to work, cover the bunghole with paper for three days, then bung down, close. Tablet, Cinnamoil {see Cinnamon Tablet). Tablets, Sugar, Flavoured.—Clarify a pound of sugar. To do this, break it up into small pieces, and pour over it a quarter of a pint of water which has been beaten up with a tea-spoonful of white of egg. Let it stand until the sugar is dissolved, then put it on the fire, and when it boils throw in another quarter of a pint of water, and let it boil up again without stirring. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, let the syrup settle, and carefully remove the scum. In order to avoid waste, put this scum upon an inverted sieve; a small portion of clear syrup will drain from it, which may be put with the rest. Flavour the syrup with three drops of oil of cinnamon, the grated peel of two lemons, or a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger. Return it to the preserving- pan, and boil it to candy height, or until it rises high in the pan, and has sufficient firmness to make a thread when taken between the thumb and finger, which have been previously dipped in cold water. Pour it on a large flat dish or well-oiled slab, and mark it quickly into squares, into which it may be broken when cold. If liked, essence of peppermint, or essence of cloves may be used for flavouring. Tadcaster Pudding. — Shred eight ounces of suet very finely, and mix it with a pound of flour; or, if preferred, rub six ounces of butter or good beef dripping into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, two heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, four ounces of well-washed currants, four ounces of chopped and stoned raisins, two ounces of moist sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. Mix the dry in- gredients together thoroughly. Dissolve a dessert-spoonful of treacle in about three- quarters of a pint of milk, and stir this into the pudding to make a stiff batter. Pour the