ROD ( 763 ) BOC powder, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, two or three grates of nutmeg, and a handful of picked and dried currants. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, add milk or water to make a light dough, and bake immediately in a well-heated oven. No. 4. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into half a pound of flour, and add four ounces of moist sugar, a few currants, and a tea- spoonful of baking powder. Mix to a stiif paste with an egg and a little milk. Bake as before. Rock Cakes, Almond or Cocoa-nut. —Blanch three-quarters of a pound of sweet and three or four bitter almonds, and cut them in pieces the size of a pea. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a firm froth. Stir in three- quarters of a pound of white and sifted sugar, a tea-spoonful at a time, and add quite as gradually the blanched almonds. Lay a piece of buttered paper on a flat tin, and with a fork drop the mixture in Uttle knobs upon it. Bake in a moderate oven. Half a pound of grated cocoa-nut may be substituted for the almonds. Time, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Rock Cream.—Take a tea-cupful of good rice and boil it till soft in sweet milk, sweeten with powdered loaf sugar, and pile it up high on a dish. Lay on the rice, here and there, square pieces of currant jelly, or any kind of preserved fruit. Beat up very stilf the whites of four or five eggs, and a little powdered sugar fhivoured with orange-flower water or vanilla; add a tea-spoonful of cream, and drop the pre- paration over the rice, giving it the look of a rock covered with snow. Rock, Dublin.—Take half a pound of sweet almonds. Pick out eight of them, blanch them, cut them into strips, and then throw them into rose or orange-water till wanted. Put the rest of the almonds into a mortar with six bitter ones, and pound them to a paste with a dessert-spoonful of brandy. Add gradually two ounces of powdered sugar and four ounces of sweet butter. Pound the mixture till it looks very white, and set it in a cold place to stiffen. Dip two spoons into cold water, and with these form the paste into pieces the size and shape of an egg. Pile these in a glass dish in a rock-like form, and ornament with strips of angelica, the almonds which were put aside, and a little myrtle. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for a small dish. Rock, Irish {see Irish Rock). Rock or Candy.—Put a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of water, and stir it until it is dissolved, add a spoonful of vinegar to clear it, and carefully remove the scum. Have ready a shallow tin rubbed over with butter. When the sugar is boiled suf- ficiently, stir into it sliced almonds, chopped cocoa-nut, or Brazil nuts shelled and cut in slices, and pour it into the tin to the thickness of half or a quarter of an inch. If preferred, the nuts, &c., may be left out, and the rock may be .'<imply marked across with a knife when it is almost cold. In order to ascertain when the sugar is done enough, dip a spoon into it, and raise it. If the threads thus formed snap like glass, it ifl ready. Rock, Snowy.—Take a pound of loaf sugar, clirrffy it, and boil it till it reaches the degi-ee of crackled; then add a table-spoonful of vinegar. A few drops of either the essence oi lemon or the oil of peppermint may also be mixed in. When the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, pour the mixture out on a slightly- oiled marble slab; whilst cooling it may be twisted, rolled, moulded, or made up into any shape at pleasure. Rock Sugar, Coloured.—Take a pint of clarified sugar and boil it in a copper or earthenware pan over a clear fire till it reaches the degree of crackled. Remove it from the fire, and mix well into it a table-spoonful of icing, stirring briskly all the time with your skimmer. If no icing is at hand, mix some sifted loaf sugar with the white of an egg till it is quite thick, put in a table-spoonful, and that will answer as well. If the rock is wanted coloured, mix with the icing any of the colour- ings used for confectionery before you put it to the sugar. When the sugar and icing are well mixed, put it into a papered sieve to cool, and when quite cold break it in pieces. Rockling.—A genus of fish of the cod and haddock family. On the British coast several species are found, the largest being never above nineteen or twenty inches long, the smallest—the mackerel Midge—being only about an inch and a quarter. Fishermen do not hold any of the species in great esteem, partly, no doubt, on account of decomposition setting in very soon after they are taken out of the water. When fresh, however, they are well suited for the table. Rocks, Almond. — Take one pound of -sweet almonds, two pounds of loaf sugar, and a pound and a half of sweet almonds cut in slices. Beat the almonds that are not sliced and the sugar together in a mortar, and pass it all through a flour-sieve. Put the whites of seven or eight eggs into a middling-sized pan, and whisk them up to a very strong froth. Stir in sufficient of your almonds and sugar to make it into a moderate stiff paste, adding also your sliced almonds; form it into small heaps with your fingers the required size—mind you do not press the heaps together too tight, but let them be rather loose, especially on the top. Cover some tins with wafer-paper, and lay them on it, about an inch and a half apart. Bake in a cool oA'en, and leave the oven-door open the greater part of the time they are baking ; when they are of a nice pale brown they are done. If managed properly, almond rocks have a pretty appearance. Rocks, Alpha [sec Alpha Rocks). Rocks for Cheese (frequently called Pulled Bread).—Take a half-baked loaf or one that is perfectly new ; tear off the crust, and with two forks pull the crumb into pieces the size of a Brazil nut. Lay these on a tin, put them in a brisk oven, and bake till they are crisp and brown. Serve with the cheese course. Rodon Cake.—Lay two pounds of fine flour on a sheet of paper before the fire, and