SAG (m) 8AQ of the palm—a soft white spongy and mealy substance—id gathered, and for the purpose of •distant trtinspoi-tation it is put into conical bags made of plantain-leaves, and neatly tied up. In that state it is called by the Malays aaiiffoo tampin, or 'bundles of sago'—each bundle weighs about thirty pounds. On its aiTival at Singapore it is bought by the Chinese mfinufac- turers of sago, and is thus treated :—Upon being carried to the manufactory, the plantain-leaf covering is removed, and the raw sago, inipart- ing a strong acid odour, is bruised, and is put into large tubs of cold spring water, where it undergoes a process of purification by being stirred, suffered to repose, and then re-stirred in newly-introduced water. When well purified thus, it is taken out of the tubs by means of small vessels; and being mixed with a great deal of watei-, the liquid is gently poured upon a large and slightly-inclined trough, about ten inches in height and width, and in the descent towards the depressed end the sago is deposited in the bottom of the trough, whilst the water flows into another large tub, where what may remain of sago is finally deposited. As the strata of deposited sago increases in the trough, small pieces of slate are adjusted to its lower end to prevent the escape of the substance. When by this pouring process the trough becomes quite fuU of sago, it is then removed to make room for "a fresh one, whilst the former one is put out into the air, under cover, for a short time; and on its being well dried, the sago within is cut into square pieces and taken out to be thoroughly diied, under cover, to protect it from the sun. It has then lost the acid smell already noticed, and has become quite wliite. After one day's drying thus, it is taken into what may be called the manufactory—a long shed, open in front and on one side, and closed at the other and in the rear. Here the lumps of sago are broken up, and are reduced to an impalpable flour, which is passed through a sieve. The lumps which are retained by the sieve are put back to be rebruised, whilst that portion which has passed is collected, and is placed in a long cloth bag, the gathered ends of which, like those of a hammock, are attached to a pole, which pole being suspended to a beam of the building by a rope, one end of it is sharply thrown forward with a particular jerk, by moans of which the sago within is speedily granulated very fine, and becomes what is technically termed ' pearled.' It is then taken out and put into iron vessels, called quallies, for the purpose of being dried. These quallies are small elliptical pans, and resemble in form the sugar coppers of the West Indies, and would each hold about five gallons of fluid. They are set a little inclining, and in a range, over a line of furnaces, each one ha^dng its own fire. Before putting in the sago to be dried, a cloth, which contains a small quantity of hog's lard or some oily substance, is hastily passed into the qually, and the sago is equally quickly put into it, and a Chinese labourer who attends it commences stirring it vigorously, and thus continues his labour during the few minutes necessary to expel the moisture contained in the substance. Thus each qually, containing about ten pounds of sago, requires the attendance of a man. The sago, on being taken off the fira is spread out to cool on large tables, after which it is fit to bo packed in boxes, or put into bags for shipment, and is known in commerce under the name of ' pearl sago.' " Sago-Meal.—Sago is sometimes imported into this country in the pulverulent state, in which it can be distinguished from arrowroot only by microscopic examination of its particles. These are uniform and sjjherical, not unequal and ovoid, like those of aiTOwroot. In this state it is known as sago-meal. Sago Milk.—Soak a large table-spoonful of sago in water for an hour, then boil it in fresh water for two or three minutes. Pour the liquor off, and substitute for it a quart of new milk. Boil the sago gently till the milk is reduced to a pint. Sweeten, flavour, and serve. Time, about an hour to boil the sago with the milk. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one person. Sago Milk (another way).—See Milk, Sago. Sago, Nutritive Properties of.— " The sago palm," says Professor Johnston, "is cultivated in many places, but it is the chief support of the inhabitants of North-western New Guinea and of parts of the coast of Africa. The meal is extracted from the pith by rubbing it to powder, and then washing it with water upon a sieve. It is baked by the natives into a kind of bread or hard cake, by putting it for a few minutes into a hot mould. The exact nutritive value of sago has not been chemically asceitained. It has been stated, however, that two and a half pounds of it are enough for a day's sustenance for a healthy full-grown man. And as each tree, when cut down in its seventh year, yields seven hundred pounds of sago-meal, it has been calculated that a single acre of land planted with three hundred trees—one-seventh to be cut down every year—will maintain four- teen men." The pith of the sago palm made into bread probably contains a sufficient quan- tity of gluten to sustain life; but this is in a great measure washed out in manufacturing the sago of commerce. Sago has been sometimes used, as we have shown elsewhere, as an in- gredient of household bread, in the proportion of one part of sago to about three of wheaten flour. Sago, Portland.—Portland sago derives its name from the island of Portland, where it is manufactured from the roots of the common wake robin {Arum macidatum), which is found there in great abundance. The roots are full of farina, but in their natural state are so acrid that on the juice being applied to the skin it raises blisters. On heat being applied by roasting or boiling, this juice is dissipated, and the roots are rendered perfectly harmless. This being done, they are dried and pounded. They jaeld a starchy matter not unlike the Indian arrowroot; hence Portland sago is sometimes called English arrowroot. Sago Pudding (A German recipe) .—Take four oimces of sago, and boil in a quart of milk. When the sago is quite boiled out, remove it from the fire, and stir in a quarter of a pound of creamed butter, four ounces of