TRA ( 980 ) point is reached, take it from the fire and set the bottom of the saucepan in a basin of cold water: as soon as the sugar begins to tliicken beat it from the middle against the side of the pan for a minute or two, and add very gradually half a quarter of a pint of maraschino or cura(,'oa and two or throe spoonfuls of clear syrup. Spread a little of this preparation over tho jam upon tho cakes, and as each cake is masked lay it on a drainer in a dish, and wlion this is full place it in an open screen for a few minutes to dry. In order to ascertain when the sugar has reached the second degree, skim it carefully, dip a perforated spoon into it, and blow the sugar off into the pan. When it has boiled long enougli, large bubbles will form on the holes of tho skimmer. Transparent Paste for Tarts, &c. {see Paste, Transparent). Transparent Pie Crust.—Take throe quarters of a pound of sweet fresh butter, break it into little pieces, and put it into a jar until it is quite melted without being oiled. Let it cool, and mix with it a well-beaten fresh egg and one pound of dried and sifted flour. Roll the paste very thin, line the tartlet tins as quickly as possible, and bake the tarts in a well-heated os'cn. Just before jjutting them in brush them over with cold water, and sift a little powdered sugar over them. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd. for this quantity. Sufficient for two dishes of tarts. Transparent Pudding,—Whisk eight eggs thoroughly. Put them into a saucepan with half a poimd of powdered .sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, and any flavouring that may be preferred, either grated lemon-rind, grated nutmeg, or almond flavouring. If fresh lemon-rind is used, a little lemon-juice may be added as well. Stir the mixture over tho fire until it thickens, then pour it out to cool. Line the edges of a buttered baking-dish with good pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. It may be served either cold or hot. A little powdered sugar should be sifted over the pudding before sending it to table. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Treacle Beer.—Boil three-quarters of a pound of hops in eighteen gallons of water. Add seven pounds of good treacle, and stir the liquid until the treacle is dissolved. Strain the beer, and when it is cool ferment with half a pound of yeast. In winter time it will be found an improvement to boil a little cayenne with the hops. Treacle-Beer (another way).—One gallon of boiling water to two pounds of treacle, with half a pint of yeast: put these into a cask, and cover tho whole close over: in three days it will be ready for use. If the beer is intended for keeping, put in a small quantity of malt and hops, and when it liua done working stop it up. Treacle Cheesecakes.—Line a buttered plate or large t:'.rtlet-tin witli good short ci-ust, and then fill it with a mixture prepared as follows : Stir a table-s])oonful of flour into four table-spoonfuls of good treacle, and when tho I)reparation is quite smooth add as much pow- dered ginger as will lie on a fourpenny-piece. Ornament the cheesecakes by htyiug twists of pastry acro.ss the top, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Treacle Parkin.—Put four ounces of butter witli three-quarters of a pound of best treacle into a jar, and place this near the fire until the butter is dissolved, then stir in four ounces of moist sugar. Mix a pound of oat- meal with half a pound of flour, three-quarters of an ounce of powdered ginger, and a quarter of an ounce of caraway-seeds. Stir the treacle, &c., into the oatmeal, and make the mixture into a firm paste with a little flour. HoU it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and bake in buttered tartlet-tins in a moderate oven. If liked, the caraway-seeds may be omitted, and a little sliced candied-peel added when tho parkin is rolled on the table. Keep the parkin in tins carefully excluded from the air. Or rub one pound of butter into four- pounds of oatmeal, add half a pound of sugar, two ounces of ground ginger, and as much warm treacle as will make a tolerably stiff batter. A cupful of milk ma}' be added if liked. Put the batter into buttered baking-tins, or small tartlet-tins, and bake in a moderate oven. In order to ascertain when it is done enough, put a skewer into the centre, and if this comes out dry and clean the parkin is ready. A little sliced candied-peel or a few caraway-seeds may be added if approved. Time to bake, according to size: the parkin should be done rather slowlj-, or the outside will be burnt before the inner part is done enough. Treacle Posset.—Boil half a pint of new milk, and as it is rising in the pan stir into it two table-spoonfuls of treacle. Boil until the curd separates, then drain it off, and boil the posset again. Treacle posset should be taken the last thing before going to bed. It is an excellent thing for promoting perspiration. Time, a few minutes. Probable cost, 2d. Suf- ficient for one person. Treacle Pudding.—Make some good crust with suet or dripping, and roll it out to the thickness of a third of an inch. Butter a pudding-basin, and line it with the pastry. Put a layer of pastry at the bottom, then a laver of treacle, and repeat until the basin i; full. Put a cover on the top, moisten the edges, and pinch them closely together. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling water, flour it well, and tie it securely over the basin. Plunge the pudding into as much boiling water as will cover it, and boil quickly and without ceasing until it is done enough. Turn it out on a hot dish, and serve very hot. If liked, a little lemon-juice, grated lemon-peel, and fine bread-crumbs may be sprinkled over each layer of treacle. Time to boil, three hours for a moderate-sized pudding. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, Is.