POT POT ( 638 ) the odgos of the pot carofuUy; then add the vogctubloB lis mentioned above, and as soon as the pot begins to boil put it on the side of the tiro, and simmer very gently—five hours for the great pot-au-fou, and three hours for the smaller. Never let the boiling be rapid ; never let it fail to simmer. Take the meat out, and place it on a dish. Taste the soup, and if not salt enough, add a little wilt when in the tureen. Skim off the fat, strain off the soup, add a little burnt sugar to colour it five minuteB before serving, and send up the meat with the vegetables arranged round it. This soup will serve as the stock for ahnost any soup that is desired. Pot-au-Feu (another way).—" The pot-au- feu," says Mr. Buckmaster, " is an economical and wholesome dish, and is well-suited either to a large or small family. It is the standard dish ■of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock." Mr. Buckmaster's recipe for making pot-au-feu and bouillon is as follows :—Take a piece of fresh beef weighing six pounds, and about a pound of bones. Tie up the meat neatly with tape or string. Put all into a saucepan holding six quarts, fill it up with •enough rain-water to cover well both meat and bones, and set the pan on the fire. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, and do not let the liquid boil. At intervals add small quantities •of cold water, which will have the effect of ■checking the ebullition and helping the scum to rise. "WTien the scum is all removed, put in an ounce of salt, a salt-spoonful of whole pepper and allspice, one onion stuck with three cloves, one leek, three carrots of average size cut in two-inch lengths, two turnips of average size each cut in four, and a bouquet garni (bunch of herbs). These vegetables should not be put in all at once, but at short intervals, so as to keep the contents of the saucepan at the same temperature. Skim now for the last time, and set the pan by the side of the fire to simmer gently for three or four hours. According to the season aU or some of the following vege- tables may now be added:—A small head of celery cut in two-inch lengths, and a couple ■of parsnips. When about to serve, strain the broth, skim off the fat, and add a small tea- spoonful of pounded loaf sugar. Make the broth boUing hot, and pour it into the soup tureen over small slices of toasted bread, adding, according to taste, a portion of the vegetables cut into thin slices. Remove the tape or string, and serve the meat, garnishing with mashed potatoes, spinach, or other vege- tables in season. Do not be too liberal in the use of pepper and salt; these can be added according to taste after the soup is ready. Pot-au-Peu, Frencli, Analysis of the.—In the housekeeping of the French artisan the broth-pot yields the most substan- tial nourishment; the wife attending to it, yet without possessing the slightest notion of chemistry: she places the meat in the pot, with about two quarts of water to three pounds of beef, at the corner of the firo, where, slowly becoming hot, the heat swells the muscular fibres of the beef, dissolving the gelatinous substances therein contained. By these means > J the scum gradually rises, the oswazome (which 18 the most savoury part of the meat) gently adds Its unction to tlie broth, and the a/butxen (which is the muscular part producing the scAim) exuding itself, rises to the surface. Ihus by the simple process of having conduet^.'d her broth-jjot by slow degi-(!es, a relishing and nutritious broth lias been obtained, and a piece of meat tender and palaUible also. Such are the advantages of this truly chemical operation; whilst in inconsiderately pkcing the pot over too quick a fire, the boiling is precipitated, the albumen coagulates and hardens; the water fjre- yented from jjcnetrating the meat, the osmazome is hindered from disengaging itself, and thus nothing is obtained but a piece of meat hard in the eating, and a broth without taste or succu- lence; therefore the greatest masters direct those who are charged with the putting on of the stock-pots, to skim them slowly over a gentle fire, adding at intervals a little cold water, that the scum may rise more copiously; these are the useful results that practice daily evinces to even the least skilful of the profes- sion. It is sufficient to possess but a small share of sense to become quickly aware of these first principles of alimentary chemistry. Pot-au-Peu, au Bain-Marie.—Put in an earthen pot three pounds of beef cut in sUces, two pound? of fiUet of veal, a loin of mutton, removing all the fat, a fowl coloured by roasting, and five pints of cold water. Add two carrots, a turnip, thi'ee leeks, and half a head of celery tied in a bimdle, and a clove stuck in an onion. Cover the pot closely, and surround it with a rim of paste made rather soft and of flour and water only. The paste should hermetically close the cover that the steam may be retained within. Place the pot within a stewpan four inches more in width containing water, and let it boU im inter- ruptedly for six hours. Be careful to add boil- ing water at intervals to the bain-marie, the ebullition of which will thus always remain the same. At the end of the six hours remove the IDaste from the cover, pass the broth through a silk sieve, and use it for soups and consommes. This is also a stock for a familj"^, and nourishing for persons whose stomachs are impaired by fatigue, and it may be made more refreshing if, in making, two lettuces, a handful of sorrel and chervil, picked, washed, and tied in a bundle, are added. Pot-au-Feu, Household (a restorative broth).—Put in an earthen jjot sufficiently large four pounds of beef sliced, a good Icnuckle of veal, and a fowl half roasted. Add nearljf three quarts of cold water, set it at the side of the fire, and skim gently. Add salt, two carrots, a turnip, three leeks, and half a head of celery tied in a bundle, and a clove stuck in an onion, and let it boil slowly for five hours without ceasing. Then take up the roots and trim them neatly; taste the broth, using but little salt to flavour the soup; skim, add the roots to it, and serve. This is a healthy soup, and good in families whore the nourish* ment of cliildren is to be attended to.