( 872) SIC SIB the flyrup, and set them away uncovered. On the following day pour thorn all out into a colander, place the syrup in the saucepan with more sugar, so as to insure a thick syru]), boil and skini it, and again return it hot over tho fruit; continue to keep tho mouths of tho jars open, and the next day, if they are soft enough, ajid the syrup appears sufficiently thick and clear, tie them over with bladder. In a week, look at them, and if any mould or fermentation begin to show, roboil the syrup as before directed. For puddings and pies the Siberian crab cannot be excelled. These apples require neither peeling nor coring, and if used before they become meUow, are juicy and brisk in flavour; the core remains entire, and imparts a unique and most delicious flavour; they are less ti-ouble also than most other fruits from their being dressed whole. Siberian Crabs, To Preserve "Whole. —No. 1. Boil an inch of cinnamon, thi-ee or four cloves, and a small piece of whole ginger in a pint of water till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and make it into syrup by boUing with it for a quarter of an horn* a pound of loaf sugar, and let it stand till cold. Put it into a pan, with a pint of Siberian crabs, which have been well wiped with a cloth and pricked with a needle about the stalks, and let all get hot together. Take the preparation off the fire, let it get cold, then heat it again, and repeat this pro- cess three times. When the crabs look clear, lift them out, put them into jars, and pour the syi-up over them. Put brandy papers over the top, and cover the fruit in the usual way. If more convenient, the syrup may be boiled on three successive days. No. 2. Take the crabs with an inch or more of stalk, wash them well, and prick them in three or four places round the stalk. Put them into a pan, and pour upon them as much boiling water as will barely cover them. When cold, drain them from the liquor, then boil the liquor with a pound of refined sugar to every pint. When it is thick and clear, pour it upon the crabs, and let them stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Put fruit and syrup into a pan, and make both scalding hot. Lift out the fruit, boil up the juice, and pour it upon the crabs. Repeat this process till the fruit looks clear, and be careful in these later boUings to let the syrup get quite cold before it is poured upon the fruit. Put the jam carefully into jars, and cover in the usual way. Time, five or six days. Probable cost, uncertain—Siberian crabs being seldom sold. Siberian Crabs {see Crab Apples, Siberian). Sicilian Biscuits.—Pound half a stick of vanilla, and work it up thoroughly with six ounces of powdered and sifted sugar and two ■well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a copper saucepan, and stir it briskly over a gentle fire until it is warm. Pour it out, and continue stirring until cold. Add five ounces of flour, and mix all thoroughly together. Fill a biscuit-forcer with tho batter, and press it out in fancy shapes upon a baking-sheet. Cover the surface of the biscuits with finely- nowdered su!?ar. and bake in a gentle oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. per pound. Sicilian Sauce, for Fowls, Turkeys. &0.—Cut four ounces of loan liam into (Uct^ and simmer gently in a quarter of a pint of water till it is reduced to liaLf the quantitj. Strain, stir it into a quarter of a pint oi strong stock, then simmer it again with a slice of lemon-rind and pulp, together half an iucli thick, half a tea-spoonful of coriander-6e(;d, and a pinch of powdered mace. At the end of eight or ten minutes add a stick of celer}-, a pinch of cayenne, and a clove of garlic. If the flavour is objected to, the latter article 'jan ha omitted, and a shallot or a small onion sub- stituted for it. Simmer all gently together for twenty minutes. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter, add a glassful of light wine, and lot tho sauce boil till it coats the spoon. Time altogether, one hour and three-quarters. Suf- ficient for a good-sized fowl. Sick, Cooking for the.—On this subject we have extracted tlie following observations, which cannot be too widely read, from MisH Florence Nightingale's " Notes on Nm-sing:"— " I will mention one or two of the most common errors among those in charge of sick respecting sick diet. One is the belief that beef-tea is the most nourishing of all articles. Now just try and boil down a pound of beef into beef-tea; evaporate your beef-tea, and see what is left of your beef. You wiU find that there is barely a tea-spoonful of solid nourish- ment to half a pint of water in beef-tea. It is quite true that by mincing the beef and then stewing it you can get a larger quantity of solid in the Liquor ; but then it is not beef-tea, and there are many patients who could not take it. There is a certain nourishing quahty in beef-tea—we do not know what—as there is in tea; it may safely be given in almost any in- fiammatory disease, but is little to be depended upon with the healthy or convalescent where much nourishment is required. Again, it is an ever-ready saw that an egg is equivalent to a pound of meat, whereas it is not so at all. Also, it is seldom noticed with how many patients, particularly of nervous or bilious temperament, eggs disagree. AH puddings made with eggs are distasteful to them in con- sequence. An egg whipped up with wine is often the only form in which they can take this kind of noiurishment. Again, if the patient is able to eat meat, it is supposed that to give him meat is the only thing needful for his recovery: whereas scorbutic sores have beeu actually known to appear among sick persons living in the midst of plenty in England, which could be traced to no other source than this, viz., that the nurse, depending on meat alone, had allowed the patient to be witliout vegetables for a considerable time, these latter being so badly cooked that ho always left them untouched. Arrowroot is another grand de- pendence of tho nurse. To mix the patient's wine in, being, as it is, quickly prepared, it is all very well; but it is nothing but starch and water. Flour is both more nutritive, and less liable to ferment, and is preferable whfrc\er it can be used.