WIN WIN ( 1133 ) pounds, is then to be added to the mixed liquors, and the quantity being made up to ten gallons and a half, the process for making goosoberrj'- wine is to be followed. Although the water is here directed to bo boiling hot, it must be remembered that it is immediately cooled down to that temperature which is most efficacious in extracting the several soluble in- gredients of the fruit." The following additional observations on this curious subject are extracted from the same author :—"The difference between young and old leaves is very great; the former contain ten or twelve times the quantity of bitter that the latter do. The old leaves are unfit for the ferment. June is the proper time to pluck them; at this season it is usual to remove leaves from the fruit-bearing vines, so that they may be easily procured; but if vines should be grown for this sole purpose, as they may be in any waste place or hedgerow, being allowed to rim wild and impruned, it will be always easy to procure a sufficient quantity and in the best condition. In their very best state at least six pounds are required for two of sugar, and it is perhaps preferable to adopt eight and a half; though no rule can be absolute, such is the va- riation in the extractive produce of the leaves. In the progress of the fermentation, should the wine promise to be too sweet, from defect of ferment, it is quite easy to add a fresh infusion, 80 as to correct this defect by a renewal of the fermentation. Of the leaves it must be ob- served, as they scarcely yield anything to the press, they require to be infused in the water for some time before they are subjected to fermentation, and they seem to yield their soluble parts most readily to hot water, without any material alteration in the result—a matter of no sui'prise because, though the water be ap- plied at the boiling heat, its temperature is immediately lowered. Tartar appears some- times to bo a useful addition to the leaves of the claret-vine; and it may be added in the proportion of half a pound or one pound to ten gallons of the must. One advantage re- sults from the use of vine-leaves—the facility with which they are reproduced during the growth of the vine. By this the produce of a small vineyard in leaves alone will be abundant, and even that of a single vine suffered to run wild, branches and leaves, will be as great as is required for the use of most families. It must always be remembered that in these cases the price of the sugar is the price of the wine. The expense of utensils and labour is comparatively trifling, and, when the manufacture is upon a small scale, scarcely worthy of regard." Wine Froth for Dessert—Take the yolks of twelve eggs and a pint of wine, and place them in a deep saucepan on the fire, adding the grated peel of a lemon and sugar to taste. Beat with a whisk till the mixture of the eggs becomes a thick froth, then stir in the" whites, which must be beaten to snow. Whisk the froth until it thickens, then pour it into cups or glasses: if into glasses, the froth should first be allowed to cool a little. Wine, Gilliflower.—To three gallons of ■water j)ut six iioundn of the best powdered white sugar; boil the sugar and water together for half an hour, keep skimming as the scum rises; let it stand to cool. Beat up three ounces of syrup of betony with a large spoonful of ale yeast, put it into the liquor, and brew it well together; then, having a peck of giUiflowers cut from the stalks, put them into the liquor, let them infuse and work together three days covered with a cloth ; strain it, and put it into a cask, and let it settle for three or four weeks; then bottle it. Wine, Ginger.—Take eighteen or twenty pounds of sugar, dissolve in nine gallons and a half of boiling water, and add ten or twelve ounces of bruised ginger-root. Boil the mixture for about a quarter of an hour, and when nearly cold, add to it half a pint of yeast, and pour it into a cask to ferment, taking care to fill the cask from time to time with the surplus of the liquor made for that purpose. "When the fer- mentation ceases, rack off the wine, and bottle it when transparent. Very often the outer rind of a few lemons is boiled together with the ginger intended for the wine, to impart to the wine the flavour of lemon-peel. Wine, Gooseberry.—The following ia Dr. Macculloch's recipe lor making gooseberry wine:—" The fruit must be selected before it has shown the least tendency to ripen, but about the time when it has attained its full growth. The particular variety of gooseberry is perhaps indifferent; but it wUl be advis- able to avoid the use of those which in their ripe state have the highest flavour. The Green Bath is perhaps among the best. The smallest should be separated by a sieve properly adapted to this purpose, and any unsound or bruised fruit rejected, while the remains of the blossom and the fruit-stalk should be removed by friction or other means. Forty pounds of such fruit are then to be introduced into a tub properly cleaned and of the capacity of fifteen or twenty gallons, in which it is to be bruised in successive proportions, by a pressure suffi- cient to burst the berries without breaking the seeds or materially compressing the skins. Four gallons of water are then to be poured into the vessel, and the contents are to be carefully stirred and squeezed in the hand until the whole of the juice and pulp are separated from the solid matters. The materials are then to remain at rest from six to twenty-foiir hours, when they are to be strained through a coars6 bag with as much force as can conveniently be applied to them. One gallon of fresh water may afterwards be passed through the marc for the purpose of removing any soluble matter which may have remained behind. Thirty or twenty-five pounds of white sugar are now to be dissolved in the juice thus procured, and the total bulk of the fluid made up with water to the amount of ten gallons and a haK. If I name two quantities, it is because the fruit itself varies in quality, and it depends on the operator to distinguish. The old recipes allow forty _ pounds, of which the consequence is, invariably, a sweet wine, while it fails of being brisk in nine cases out of ten. And the smaller proportion here giver will -most frequently en- sure a brisk wine, if the operator will but attend