ti'tra ( 776 ) RUM if he has found where they lie, may catch forty or fifty, or Bometimes twice as many, at a Btfinding." Ruglen Cream.—This is another name sometimcH given to the old-fashionod prepara- tion named Corstorphine, the recipe for making which is given in another portion of this book. It is an open question whether the cream was originally made in Corstorphine, near Edin- h'lrgh, or in the borough of Rutherglen (whence Tvuglen), in Lanarkshire. Hum.—This well-kno^vn and much esteemed Foirituous liquor is imported into this country ivom the West Indies, of which it is one of the Ecaple products. It is obtained by means of fermentation and distillation from molasses, the refuse of the cane-juice, and portions of the cane, after the sugar has been extracted. The flavour and taste peculiar to rum are derived from the essential oils carried over in distil- lation. When the distillation has been care- lessly performed, the spirit contains so large a quantity of the grosser and less volatile part of the oil as to be unfit for use till it has attained a considerable age. When it is well rectified it mellows much sooner. Rum of a brownish transparent colour, smooth oily taste, strong body and consistence, good age, and well kept, is the best. That which is clear and limpid, and has a hot pungent taste, is either too new or mixed with other spirits. Jamaica rum is the first in point of quality ; the Leeward Island rum, as it is called, being always inferior to it in flavour, strength, and value. The price of the latter is usually twenty per cent, below that of the former. We import almost all our rum in puncheons containing from eighty-four to ninety gallons each. It is customary, in some of the West India islands, to put spiced pine-apples in puncheons of rum; this gives the spirit the flavour of the fruit; and hence the designation pine-apple rum. Rum is also produced in and imported from the Mauritius and the East Indies. But that of the latter is more nearly allied to arrack than to genuine nma. Rum is said to be much adiilterated by the retail dealers in England, Bometimes with com spirit; but if done with molasses spirit, the tastes of both are so nearly allied that the cheat is not easily discovered. Rum often has a deep red colour, which is acquired from molasses or caramel added for the purpose, and not from the wood of the casks, as is commonly supposed. Unlike other spirits, rum tends to cause perspiration. It is greatly improved by age, and when very old is often highly prized. At a sale in Carlisle in 1865, rum known to be a hundred and forty years old sold for three guineas a bottle. Rum-and-Milk.—Rum-and-milk, the first thing in the morning or else twice a day, is strongly recommended as of the greatest service in cases of consumption. It is often almost as efficacious as cod-liver oil. It may be taken with bread-and-butter, as a moal, at breakfast and tea, if these times are preferred by the invalid. The usual qnantiticH at each period ire a tumblerful of rich milk, a table-spoonful ot old rum, and a little sugar. Rum Blancmange.—Rub the yellow rmd of two fresh lomonb upon eight good-sized lumps of Bugar. Soak an ouncfi of gelatine in a cupful of milk, and when it is swollen pour upon it a pint of boiling milk or cream, or half milk and half cream. Htir it until the gelatine 18 dissolved, then add the lemon-flavoured sugar and the well-beaten yolks of five or more eggs mixed with an additional half pint of milk or cream. IStir the blancmange over the fire till it is quite hot, let it cool a little, then put with it four table-spoonfubj of rum, and a pinch of saffron dissolved in a table-spoonful of water, and continue stirring till it is abnost cold. Pour it into a damp mould, and put it in a cool place till stiff. Squeeze the strained juice of a lemon over it before sending it to table. Time to prepare, about one hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 8d., exclusive of the rum. Sufiicient for a quart mould. Rum Cake.—Take the yolks of twelve eggs, beat them up, and add three-quarters of a pint of cream, the same quantity of rum, and sugar to taste; add also the grated peel of a lemon. Butter a form, pour the mixture in, and bake it till it is dry at the top; the cake may be iced or only strewn with sifted sugar, and ornamented with preserved cherries, &c., or whipped cream may be laid on the top. Rum Ice.—Rub the rind of a large fresh lemon upon three or four lumps of sugar till aU the yellow part is taken oif, and add as much sugar as will make up the weight to three- quarters of a pound. Put this into a saucepan with a pint of cold water and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Stir the syrup over the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, add gradually the whites of three eggs beaten till firm. Pour the preparation out before it begins to simmer, let it cool, add a quarter of a pint of old Jamaica rum, freeze in the usual way, and serve in glasses. Rum Jelly.—Boil a pound of sugar to a clear syrup. Mix with this two ounces of clarified isinglass or gelatine, and add the juice of a lemon and a wine-glassful of fine old Jamaica rum. Pour the jelly into a damp mould, set it in ice or in a cool place till it is stiff, then turn it out, and serve. Rum Omelette.—Beat three eggs in a bowl, and add a very small pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of finely-powdered sugar, a slice of butter, and a table-spoonful of rum. Fry the omelette in the usual way. Lay it on a hot dish, and pour round it half a tumblerful of rum which has been warmed in a saucepan. Set light to this, and take the omelette to table with the flame rising round it. Sufficient for one or two persons. ^ • Rum Pudding.—Grate three ounces of stale bread-crumbs, and pour over thorn a.s much rum as will moisten them. "\\Tien they are well soaked, be^t thorn up with six ounces of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and first the • yolks, and aftcj-wards the woll-whisked whites, of four eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and let it steam until done enough. Turn it upon a hot dish, pour half a tumblerful of rum over it, set light to this, and serve