( 555 ) PIG PIG five days. The day before they are to be served, boil them gently in a quart of water, with an onion, a carrot, a bunch of savoury herbs, a stick of celery, and a little pepper and salt When they ai-e done enough, take them up, "drain them, cut the feet in two, lengthways, draw out the large bone, and press them, with the ears, between two dishes, until they are stiff and cold. Two hours before they are wanted, make a batter, by mixing five ounces of flour and a pinch of salt smoothly with a gill of water. Beat the yolks of two eggs to a paste, with two table-spoonfuls of oil; stir this mto the flour, and put the mixture aside. Twenty minutes before it is to be used, add the whisked wliites of the eggs, and a little more water if the batter is too tliick. Beat it weU; dip mto it the pig's feet and ears, and fry in hot fat nntil they are equally and lightly browned. Drain them, and serve on a hot napkin. If liked, a gravy, made of two or three table- spoonfuls of the liquid in which they were boiled, mLxed with a little vinegar, may be sent to table with them. Time, the feet and ears must be boiled till tender ; twenty minutes to fry them. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pig's Feet and Ears in Jelly.— Cleanse and scrape the feet and ears, and let them soak in cold water for two or thi-ee hours. Put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will barely cover them, and simmer gently until they are quite tender. Take them up, and draw out all the bones. Put the meat back into the liquid, with six sage-leaves, chopped small, a table-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and pov/dered mace, and simmer again until the flavour is drawn out of the herbs and the liquid is reduced to a jelly. Pour the whole into a shape, and serve cold. Time, the pigs' feet and ears must be long and gently boiled till they are tender. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Feet, Boiled (au Naturel).—Scald and scrape the leet of a fully-grown porker, and carefully remove the covering of the toes. Split them in halves, lengthways, and bind them securely with tape in their original position. Put them into a ste^vpan, with a quart of stock or water, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two onions, two carrots, a stick of celery, and a little salt and cayenne. I^et them simmer gently until they are tender. Drain them, and draw out the largo bones. Put them back into the liquid, and let them remain in it until cold. After the feet have been boiled as above directed, they may be either served hot, with peas pudding and tiirnip-topg, eaten cold with vinegar, broiled, or fried. Time to simmer, three hours from the time the gravy reaches the boiling point. Sufficient for two persons. Pigs' Feet, Soup of.—Take two sets of pigs' fcctand pigs' ears, cleanse thorn thoroughly, and put them into a stewpan, with three quarts of water, a little pepper and salt, a bunch of savoury herbs, a carrot, two onions, and half a head of celery. Remove the scum as it rises, and simmer the liquid gently for four hours. Pour it out, strain it, cut the meat into dice. lay it aside, and leave the soup to get cold. The next morning Uft oflE the cake of fat which wUl have settled on the top, pour ofl:' the liquid, free from sediment, return it to the saucepan, season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and white pepper, and thicken with flour and butter. Let the soup boil gently for some minutes. Put the pieces of meat into a saucepan, with as much gravj' as will cover them; let them get quite hot, then put them with the soup. Simmer all together for a few minutes, and serve. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pig's Feet, Soused.—Take four young and tender pig's feet. Scald and scrape them, and put them into a stewpan, with as much, lukewarm water as wiU cover them. Bring the liquor to a boil, and skim carefuUy, then simmer the feet gently until aU the bones can be taken out. Lift them out, put them into a deep pan, and sprinkle salt over them. As the liquid cools, remove the fat from the top of it; and when it is quite clear, boil a quart of it with the same quantity of vinegar, a dessert-spoon- ful of whole pepper, and a blade of mace. Let it boU ten minutes, and pour it boiling hot over the feet. Cover the jar closely. If liked, the head can be soused with the feet. The meat may be eaten cold from the vinegar, or fried and browned, and served hot. Time to boll the feet, three hours. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Pig's Fry.—A pig's fry, which is composed of the heart, liver, lights, and sweetbread, should be used when quite fresh. Wash it well, and sinmier it in a little salt and water for half an hour. Dry it, and cut it into slices the third of an inch thick. Dredge these with flour, and season with a little salt, pepper, cayenne, and powdered sage. Fry them in hot fat until they are lightly browned. If liked, a slice of bacon, finely minced, and a chopped onion, may be fried with them. Serve the fry neatly ai-ranged on a hot dish, with a shallot, finely minced, sprinkled over it, or with the following sauce poured round it:—Mince two large onions and one large apple, and fry them in melted butter until they are quite soft. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add a pinch of cayenne, a large pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. Pour over these a table-spoon- ful of vinegar, and stir the sauce over a gentle fire for four minutes. Add two table-spoonfuls of claret, and serve. Time to fry the slices, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Fry (another way).—Procure a fresh pig's fry. Wash it well, and dry it, then cut it into slices the third of an inch in thickness. Butter a baking-dish, cover the bottom with" a layer of the lean slices, and sprinkle over them a little powdered sage, minced onion, pepper, and salt. Place sliced potatoes on these, axid then a layer of fat slices, with a little more seasoning, and sHced potatoes over the whole. Fill the dish with boiling stock or water, mixed smoothly with a small portion of flour, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve very hot Time to bake, two hours and a half. Probable