( 980 ) t TOM TOD cold. Take one or two slicea of bread a quart(?r of an iiieh t\wk. Toast them ou botli sides, and cut tliuiu into tlireo-coruerod pieces. .Spread tho savoury minco thickly upon tliem, and cover the surface with a luird-hoiled egg chojiped small. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over tliein, and put them in a brisk oven for a minute or two till they arc quite liot. Arruugo them neatly on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Time altogether, about one hour. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the fricassee. Toddy, American.—Take the thin rind of two large lemons, and put it in a bowl with half a pound of sifted sugar and a pint of cold water, and let it soak imtil tho liquor is plea- siintly flavoured. Take out the rind, and in its place put a small quantity of fruit—three or four large ripe strawberries, a slice of pine-apple, or a mellow peach peeled and sliced will answer excellently. Ten minutes before the toddy is served add a pint of best rum and a quarter of a pound of ice. Toffee.—IMclt three ounces of fresh butter in a small brass saucepan over a clear, bright fire. As soon as it is dissolved, stir into it one pound of good brown sugar, and keep stirring until it is done enough. In order to ascertain when this point is reached, let a cup of cold water be placed close at hand, and keep drop- ping a little of the toffee into it. When the toffee thus dropped hardens immediately, and breaks between the teeth without sticking to them it is done, and must be poured out at once or it will bum. The flavour of this toffee may be pleasantly varied by stirring into it a tea- spoonful of slightly moistened j)Owdered ginger, or the grated rind of a small lemon. Pour the toft'ee upon a buttered dish, and put it in a cool place to set. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty- five minutes. Probable cost, this quantity, 8d. Toffee, Almond.—Melt five ounces of fresh butter in a small brass saucepan over a clear fire, and when it is dissolved stir into it a pound of good brown sugar, and let the mixture boU for a quarter of an hour. Have ready pre- pared two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched, halved, and dried. Throw them into the toffee, and let it boil after they are added until it hardens instantly when dropped into cold water, and breaks between the teeth without sticking to them. When this point is reached, turn the toffee out immediately or it will bum. Pour it upon buttered dishes. Or blanch an ounce of sweet almonds, divide them into strips, and dry them thoroughly in a cool oven or before the fire. Boil a pound of sugar in half a pint of water till it is dissolved, then throw in an ounce of butter. Boil the toft'ee until it hardens instantly when dropped into cold water. Pour it on a buttered dish or oiled slab, and add the sliced almonds after the toftee is poured upon the dish. When nearly cold, mark it out in squares with the back of a knife. Time, fifteen to thirty minutes. Toffee, Almond (another way). —/See Almond Toffy. Toffee, Everton (see Everton Toffee). Tomato.—The tomato or love apple is a fruit much valued in cookery for sauces, soups, gravies, and keteaiuj). It is about the size of a potato. It comes into season in April, and continues until frost sets in. It possesses a very peculiar flavour, and when liked at all is generally very highly esteemed. When fresh truit 18 not in season, tinned tomatoes may be used. Tho large tomatoes are the best for stewing and for sauces, and the small ones for pickling. TOMATOES. Tomato (an Gratin).—Cut half a dozen tomatoes in halves, remove the pips, and fill the inside with a mixture of bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt, in due proportions. Place a smaU piece of butter on each half tomato, and lay them then close together in a well-buttered tin. Bake in a slow oven for about half an hour, then serve. They may be eaten hot or cold. Tomato Beef. — Take three pounds of lean beef, cut into large steaks; lay it in the stewpan -with seven or eight nice ripe tomatoes, a spoonful of water, and a finely-chopped onion. Stew slowly for one hour and a half. Add salt, pepper, cloves, and just before dishing, a piece of butter as large as an egg, and half a gill of ketchup. Tomato Ketchup.—A small glassful of tomato ketchup stirred into half a pint of melted butter or gi-avy may be used instead of tomato sauce. Take two quarts of small ripe tomatoes, cut them into slices, lay them in a deep pan, and sprinkle amongst them four ounces of salt. Let them lie for twenty-four liours. Pour the juice from them, and boil it with four ounces of shallots and a dozen and a half small capsicums. Press the tomatoes through a sieve> stir the pulp into the juice, and let it boil half an hour longer. Pour the ketchup into wai-m bottles whilst it is warm. Cork securely, and seal the corks. Time, two days. Tomato Ketchup (another way).—Take any quantity of very ripe tomatoes, and cut them into slices. Put a layer into a deep jar, sprinkle a little salt over it, add another layer and a little more salt, and repeat this until tho tomatoes are all used. The quantity of salt required will bo about two ounces of salt