( 1014 ) TTJB TTJH like the livor, guarded from tho licat by but- torud paper. Turkey, Trussing and Carving of (Dr. Kitchiuor'a obscrviitions).—Tho rules for cutting up a pheasant are in all roHpectB ap- plicable to a turkey; whether roasted or boiled, it is trussed and sent to table like a fowl. In trussing it, throe skewers should bo placed so as to admit tho spit between them and tho back of it: these keep it firm on tho spit, and prevent the great weight of tho stufiing, &c., from making it turn irregular while at the fire. One skewer should bo passed through the legs ; one in tho middle, which confines the wings; and tho other under the wings, near tho end of the merry-thought. Tho best parts of a tur- key are the white ones—the breast, wings, and neck-bones. The neck must be taken away, and the hollow part under the breast stuffed with forcemeat, which is to be cut in thin slices in the direction from the rump to tho neck, and a slice given with each piece of turkey. The breast is the only part usually cut up ; if more is wanted, take off one or both wings, a leg, &c. The gizzard and rump are favourites with some epicures. It is called a devil when well peppered, salted, and broiled: many people score it with a knife before it is peppered and salted. If you wish a turkey, especially a very large one, to be tender, never dress it till at least four or five days (in cold weather, eight or ten) after it has been killed. " No man who understands good living will say, on such a day I will eat that turkey—but will hang it up by four of the large tail-feathers, and when, on paying his morning visit to the larder, he finds it lying upon a cloth prepared to receive it when it falls, that day let it be cooked." Turkey with Celery Sauce.—Truss it nicely, wrap it up in layers of bacon; then boil it in water with a little salt, butter, and lemon- juice. Drain it, and cover over with celery sauce. Turkey with Chipolata Garnish.— Pluck, draw, and singe a plump turkey, stuff and roast in the usual way. Put it on a dish, and garnish with chipolata garnish [see Chipo- lata Garnish). Pour a little brown sauce over it, and send some more to table in a tureen. A good deal of taste is required to garnish this dish. Chipolata garnish is worth nothing un- less it is tastefully arranged. Turkey with Truffles.—Take a nice fat turkey the moment it has been killed; empty it, and put plenty of salt inside the body to draw the blood out. Then let it cool, and prepare some truffles in the following manner: take two or throe pounds, peel them, and smeU whether they are all of a good flavour, and not musked. Pick out the smallest from amongst them, and chop them very fine. Take some fat white bacon, and rasp it, so as to obtain the fat only, without any of the sinews. When you have rasped a sufiBcient quantity to fill the body of the turkey, put the chopped truffles into the mortar, pound them with the rasped bacon, season weU with salt, pejjper, spices, &c., then mix this with largo truffles, and put all in the turkey. Let tho turkey remain thus for two or thre(i days to iuiquire the flavour of the trulllcs; sow the Ijird up as soon as you have finished it, and when you want it roasted, put it on the spit, cfjvered witli bacon on tho l}r(;a8t and a few slieets of white paper, and take great care when you open the paper tliat you do not loosen the truflies. Serve with a clear Kpauish sauce. This dish is one of the best possible if it is well seasoned and roasted. It is scarcely necessary to observe that tho carver nmst serve the inside with t)ie fillet, as that is one of the best parts of the dish. Turkey's Eggs {see Eggs, Turkey's). Turkeys, Torcemeat for {nee Force- meat for Turkeys ; Oysters for Forcemeat for Boiled Fowls or Turkeys; and Forcemeat for Turkeys, Roast). Turkish Pilau.—A pilau, as really served in Turkey and Ai-abia, consists simply of rice boiled as for curry so that the grains are kept entire, mixed with a little butter, and seasoned with pepper and salt, then laid upon a dish, and the stewed meat placed upon it. For Western use, a pilau is very good prepared as follows :— Roast a rabbit, a chicken, or two or three pounds of mutton; when the meat is sufficiently cooked cut it into neat pieces convenient for serving, and p'lt these aside until wanted. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with two ounces of lean ham cut into dice, or a little blanched bacon-rind, a sprig of thjine, an onion stuck with two cloves, a small carrot, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pint of stock or water. Simmer the liquor gently, and skim carefully until it is pleasantly flavoured and considerably reduced. Add some salt if required. Wash one pound of Patna rice, throw it into boiling water for five minutes, drain it, dry it in a cloth, put it into a clean saucepan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and stir it about over a gentle fire until it is lightly and equally coloured. Pour over it a pint and a half of stock, and let it simmer verj' gentlj^ until it has entirely absorbed the liquor, and is quite tender and dry without the grains being broken. Throw in a Kttle salt and white pepper and a tea-spoonful of curry-powder, and stir lightly with a fork to separate the grains. Pile it at once high on a dish, and place upon it the shces of meat which, a few minutes pre-vaously, have been heated but not boiled in the sauce made from the bones, &c. If a fowl has been used for the pilau, a table-spoonful of stewed sultana raisins may be placed on the top before serving. Time, about three-quarters of an hour to boil the rice. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnip.—This excellent vegetable is ex- tensively used in cooker}', either alone and boiled whole, mashed in stews, or to flavour soups and sauces. There are many varieties of the turnip. The best are small, finely-grained, juicy, smooth, and sotmd "V\Ticn turnips are used for flavouring soups and sauces, it should be remembered that tho liquor in which they are boiled will not keep very long, and also that turnips boiled with onions will correct tht- verj- strong flavour of the latter. The peel of