WHI WHI ( 1119 ) whitings, wipe them clean. Preserve the liver. Take a silver dish if you have one, if not, a baking-pan. Rub the bottom over with butter, and sprinkle it with parsley and imishrooms chopped verj' fine, over which lay the whitings. Then take some rasps of bread that are not burnt, and sprinkle thorn over the whitings, with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; then again dust them over with sweet herbs, namely, parsley and mushrooms, chopped very fine. (If shallots are approved of, you may add some.) Next lay small lumps of butter on the whit- ings ; pour into the dish a glassful or two of white ^vine, a tea-spoonful of each of the follow- ing articles—essence of anchovies, cavice, chili, vinegar, Harvey's sauce, &c.—and bake in a hot oven. The whitings will be done within a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, accord- ing to size. Serve with lemon-juice and no other sauce. This is a very palatable dish ; if there is too much sauce, reduce it on a stove, as it must be very short, it being called " au gratin " because it is a short sauce. W Hiting (aux Fines Herbes).—Clean and skin the fish, and fasten it with its tail in its mouth. Place it on a dish, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over it a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder. Lay little pieces of butter here and there thickly upon it, cover with another dish, and bake in a moderately- heated oven till done enough. Tiuti it once or twice that it may be equally cooked, and serve with the sauce poiu-ed over it. Time to bake the fish, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one whiting for each person. Whiting, Baked. — Cut the heads off some fuU-sized whitings, empty them, and cleanse them perfectly, opening them for the purpose as little as possible. Dry them, fold them in a cloth, and leave them for a quarter of an hour. Butter a baking-dish, and put them into it backs downwards, that the sauce maj'- cover the thickest part of the flesh. Sprinkle salt and cayenne upon them, and put roimd them half an ounce of butter kneaded with a salt-spoonful of flour, half a tea-spoonful of chili vinegar, a table-spoonful of port, and a small pinch of powdered mace for each fish. Lay a double fold of oiled paper upon the dish, and press it upon the fish. Put them in a gentle oven, and bake till done enough. Take them up carefully with a fish slice, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Time to bake the fish, twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one whiting for each person. Wlliting, Boiled.—Whiting plainly boiled 18 sometimes recommended for invalids, as it is considered light and easy of digestion; but it is insipid food, and this method of dressing the fish cannot be recommended. Large whiting should be chosen for boiling. Skin the fish, and skewer it with its tail in its mouth. Put it into boiling water slightly salted, clear off the scum frequently, and simmer the fish till the eyes start and the flesh will leave the bone. Take it up the moment it is done enough. Drain it, remove the skewer, put the whiting on a hot dish covered with a napkin, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter, anchovy, shrimp, parsley, white, or Dutch sauce to table with it; or, if preferred, merely mix a little fresh butter lightly with the flakes of the fish- Time to boil, from five to eight minutes, ac- cording to size. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one whiting for each person. Whiting, Broiled.—Wash the whiting ill salted water, and be careful to preserve the liver, as it is by some considered a delicacy. Dry the fish thoroughly, brush it over with oil, and roU it in flour. Broil it over a clear bright fire. Serve on a hot dish, either with a little piece of butter placed upon the fish, or with melted butter or parsley sauce; or, better still, with a sauce prepared as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg in a gallipot, and put with it two table-spoonfuls of water and two table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Put the galli- pot into a saucepan, and surround it with boil- ing water. Place it on the fire, stir briskly for a minute, and add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of chopped pars- ley, and half a tea-spoonful of flour which has been kneaded into two ounces of butter. Stir the mixture till it thickens, work in a few drops of strained lemon-juice, and serve. The sauce must not boil. Time to broil the fish, six to twelve minutes, according to size. If liked, the tarragon vinegar can be omitted, and the sauce flavoured entirely with lemon-juice. Whiting, Broiled (another way).— Empty the whitings, scale them, but preserve the Uver, which is very delicate. When you have washed and wiped them clean, sUt the back on both sides. Beat the yolk of an egg with a little salt and pepper, and rub some of it over the whitings with a brush. Then dip the fish into crumbs of bread, next into melted butter, and then into crixmbs of bread again. Broil them of a fine colour, and serve up. The sauce is to be sent up separately in a boat, whether it is anchovy sauce or melted butter. It is to be sent up separately, for if you were to pour the sauce over the fish, the whiting would not prove palatable, and the sauce would get too thick. Whiting, Buckhorn. — In Cornwall, whitings which have been salted and dried are sold vmder the name of buckhorn. Whiting, Choosing of. — Whitings should be procured as fresh as possible. The goodness of the fish may be known by the firmness of its flesh, the brightness of its eyes, and the silvery hue of its appearance. Codlmgs and pollacks are frequently sold as whitings. The true whiting may be known by its having no barbel under its chin, by the under jaw being shorter than the upper one, and by its tail being even at the end. In point of flavour, those are the best whitings which are about nine inches long. Whiting, Curried.—Take three full-sized whitmgs. Clean and skin the fish, fillet them neatly, and cut the fillets into pieces about three inches in length. Skin two onions and cut them into dice. Put them into a frjnng- pan with a little fat, place them on the fire, and turn them about till soft. When they