( 1052 ) VEA VEA till it is lightly and equally hrowned. Put it into a stowpan with the onions und as nmeh hoiling stock or water as will cover it. Let tho liquor boil, then simmer gently for an hour. Add two lettuces lin(»ly shred, a pint of freshly- shelUd green ])0a8, two tea-Hi)o()ufuls of salt, and a tea-spoonful of pepper, and simmer all gently together another hour. iServo tho meat on a hot dish with tho gravy poured over it, and send boiled rice to table on a sejiarate dish. If liked, one or more cucumbers, pared, freed from seeds, and sliced, may be stewed in tho gi-avy as well as tho peas. Boiled bacon sliould be sent to table with it. Time to stew the veal, about two hours or more, according to size. Probable cost, four pounds at 5d. per pound, five pounds at 6d. per pound, six pounds at 7cl. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of. Stewed with Macaroni.—Break the shank-bone of a small knuckle of veal, wash it well, and put it into a stewpan with a shallot or a small onion, and a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Cover with stock or water, and let it simmer for an hour and a half. Throw half a pound of macaroni into it, and let it simmer till tender, when it will be ready for ser^'ing. If preferred, the sauce may be thickened and will be much improved by boiling with it for the last ten minutes a table-spoonful of ground rice mixed smoothly with milk; a little cream may be added to enrich it. I'ime, two hours. Probable cost, veal, od. to 7d. per pound. Veal, Knuckle of. Stewed with jj,iQe.—Put a small knuckle of veal into a stewpan just large enough to contain it. If too large, so much water will be needed that the veal will be rendered insipid. Cover with stock or water, thi'ow a tea-spoonful of salt into it, let the liquor boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently for thi-ee-quarters of an hour-. Throw into it half a pound of well-washed rice, and let all stew gently together till the meat and the rice are tender. HaU an hour before it is taken up, season the preparation with mace and cayenne, and add a little more salt if required. Send boiled bacon and parsley and butter to table with the veal. Time to stew the veal, two hours to two hours and a half— half an hour to the pound. Veal Liver Pat6 (to be eaten cold).— Take one pound of calf's liver and ten ounces of fat bacon. Mince these first separately, and afterwards together, and season the mixture with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Add two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, two ounces of iinely-minced lean ham, and a moderate- sized onion that has been sliced and browned m fat. Iklix these ingredients thoroughly, and mix with them first the beaten yolks, and afterwards the well-whisked whites of two eggs. Line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the mince, place sHces of bacon on the top, and bake the pate very gradually in a gentle oven. When it is done enough it can be easily pierced quite through with a skewer. Lot it get cold, turn it upon a dish, and garaish with parsley. Carve it in shccs. Veal, Loin of.-Tho loin is gonorally considered the prime joint of veal lor roasting. It is fieiiuently divided, and then there ig the kidni^y end und the chump end. The chump end is sometimes stufled, l)ut if this is not done forcemeat balls should be served witli it. A loin (jf veal is frequently stewed also, and in w inter-tiiiK^ is (;xc(.'llent. Veal, Loin of (a la creme). —Prepare and roast a loin of vi al in the usual way. About a quarter of an hour before it is done enough take up tho dripping-tin, put a clean dish in its place, and baste the veal continually with boil- ing cream. This will impart to its suj-face a rich brown coating of delicious flavour. Dish tho veal, and in doing so handle it carefully, for fear of injuring its surface. Pour two table- spoonfuls of boiling water into the dish over which it was basted, and in this stir the brown gravy which has dropped from the joint, and add it to half a pint of good white sauce. Pom- some of this round the veal, and serve the rest in a tui-een. Ham, tongue, or pickled ijoik wiU be needed as an accompaniment. Veal, Loin of (au bechamel).—Take a loin of veal, and have it boned entirely by the butcher. Take out the kidney, remove some of the fat, and put the kidney back in its place. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the veal, roU in and skewer the flap to give the joint a good shape, and put a buttered paper round the meat. Eoast before a clear fire, and baste liberally. Ten minutes before taking up the meat remove the paper, sprinkle a little salt upon the meat, and let it brown. Send be- chamel sauce to table in a tureen. Serve boiled ham or bacon on a separate dish. Time to roast the loin, two hours to two hours and a half, or twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Veal, Loin of (au bechamel—Cold Meat CooKEKv).—Take the remains of a di-essed loin of veal. Cut ofl: the meat, mince finely, and season with salt, cayenne, and grated lemon- rind. Wrap the loin in oiled paper, place it in the oven, and heat thi-oughout. Moisten the mince with bechamel, and make it quite hot. Dish it, put the loin over it, pour about a quarter of a pound of bechamel upon it, and serve immediately. Fried or boiled bacon should be sent to table with this dish. Tmic, about one hour and a half to heat the joint. Veal, Loin of, BoUed.-It is not often that tho loin of veal is boiled whole, as it is always best to finish it the day on wluch it is dressed, because cold boiled veal is not a par- ticularly relishing dish. Nevertheless, to inva- lids and persons of delicate taste boiled veal is sometimes more acceptable than roa.st vcaL The best end of the loin, with the kidney lyit in, is excellent, and should be served with oyster or well-made white sauce The chump end may be accompanied by parsley and but er A loin of veal should be boiled just like a hllot of veal, though on account of its being less solid it will not need to bo boii?d quite so long A piece weighing from eight to .on PO"" J j' need to simmer from two hours and a quarter to two hours and a half. Veal Loin of. Braised.-Take four polds 'of tSe chum'p end of a lorn of vcai.