8PA (911) SPA that is capable of holding three or four gallons of sauce, or, if prefoiTed, lay flattened pieces of beof suet at the bottom of the stewpan. Place thick slices of onion upon the suet, or thin shoes of lean ham on the butter, and on these put thick slices of beef or veal and any bones and trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand. A little lean ham, a knuckle-bone of ham, some bacon-rind scalded and scraped, or the carcase of a cold roast rabbit or fowl, wUl very much imijrove the flavour of the sauce. Pour in as much stock made from bones, or water, as will barely cover the surface of the meat. Cover the saucepan, set it on a brisk fire, and let it boil quickly till it turns to glaze or thin gum. As soon as this point is reached, slacken the heat of the fire, and let the sauce remain gently simmering until it becomes thick and sticky, and, without being at all burnt, has acquired a bright brown colour. Fill up the stewpan with cold stock or water (allowing a quart of water for a pound and a half of meat and bones). Let it boil, skim carefully, and add two or three carrots, a bundle of outer sticks of celery, a small piece of mace, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, a dozen peppei-coms, and a little salt. Simmer all gently together for three hours. Keep skimming the sauce as required, and strain it off for use. Let it get cold, then remove every particle of fat from it. When wanted, boil the quantity needed, thicken with roux or brown thickening, and let it boU tiH it is of the consistency of cream, carefully re- moving the fat as it is thrown up. Pass it through a fine sieve, and it will be ready for use. A glassful of sherry or madeira may be added if liked. When any quantity of brown sauce is wanted, it should be made the day before it is to be used. In cool weather it wiU keep for four or five days. It should be looked at every day, and boiled up if necessary. Time, four to five hours. Probable cost, 28. per pint. Spanish Sauce, Highly Flavoured. —Dissolve a thick shce of fresh butter in a saucepan, and throw into it a quarter of a pound of lean ham cut into dice, four sliced shallots, a dozen mushrooms cleaned a»d cut small, a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thjone, a bay-leaf, a dozen peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and three cloves. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire till a red tinge appears round the inside of the SJiucepan. Add gradually a pint of clear stock, and simmer the sauce gently for three-quarters of an hour. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain the sauce, add cayenne and salt if necessary, and thicken with a little brown thickening. Let it simmer again, that it may throw up the fat, and carefully remove this till no more appears. A few minutes before the sauce is to be served stir into it a wine-glassful of sherry or madeira. Time, altogether, about an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 28. per pint. Spanish Sauce made from Bones.— Tako the bone of a log of mutton or of a piece of beef weighing six o. seven pounds. Break it into small pieces, and put these into a stewpan with a large onion stuck with throe cloves, a sliced carrot, half a dozen outer sticks of celery (or, if this is not at hand, as much bruised celery- seed as win lie on a threepenny-piece), a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a couple of leeks (if they can be had), half a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Pour over these ingredients three quarts of cold water. Let the liquor boU, skim carefully, and simmer gently for four hours, or until it is reduced to two quarts. Strain it, and when it is cold take away any fat there may be on the top. When Spanish sauce is wanted, take as much of this stock as wiU make the requisite quantity; make it hot, and dissolve a little Liebig's Extract of Meat in it—a quarter of a tea-spoonful will be suflficient for a pint. Thicken with brown thickening, let it simmer by the side of the fire till it has thrown up the grease, strain through a sieve, and serve. When brown thickening is not at hand, a substitute may be made as follows :—Eoiead together in a saucepan equal proportions of butter and flour. Stir this paste quickly over a slow fire for three minutes tiU it is brightly coloured without being at all burnt. Moisten it with the stock, let the sauce simmer gently to throw up the grease, and when it is smooth and thick it will be ready for serving. Time, five hours. Probable cost, 3d. per pint. Spanish Sauce (M. Tide's way).—Besides some slices of ham, put into a stewpan some sUces of veal. Moisten the same as for the cuUis; sweat them in the Kke manner; let aU the glaze go to the bottom, and when of a nice red colour moisten with a few spoonfuls of stock-broth liquor to detach the glaze; then pour in the cuUis. Let the whole boU for half an hour to remove all the fat. Strain it through a clean tamis. Eemember always to put some mushrooms, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, into these sauces. It is neces- sary to observe to the professors of cookery that the flavour proceeds from the seasoning, and if the necessary articles are neglected to be put to a nicety into the sauces, the flavour will be deficient. Mind that the sauce or broth when kept too long on the fire loses the proper taste, and acquires instead a strong and dis- agreeable one. Spanish Sauce, Quickly made.—Peel an onion, split it in halves, stick a clove in each half, and put these into a saucepan with a bunch of parsley, a tea-spoonful of gelatine, half a dozen celery-seeds, and a pinch of dried tar- ragon, if it is at hand. Boil all gently together with a pint of water tiU the gelatine is dissolved, strain off the liquor, and stir into it a tea-spoon- ful of Liebig's Extract of Meat; add as much salt as will be necessarj' to bring out the flavour. Thicken the gravy with a small piece of brown thickening. If this is not at hand, mix together smaU equal portions of flour and butter, stir the paste quickly over a brisk fire tiU it is brightly coloured, moisten with the stock, boil tiU smooth, and serve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Spanish Sauce, To make a small quantity of.—Butter a stewpan, and lay in the bottom of it a couple of slices of l(»n ham and a pound of lean beef or veal, or half a pound