( 1093 ) VIN VIN for bottling in three months. If the cask has not had vinegar in it before, it must have a little boiling vinegar poured into it, be well shaken, and then be left with the vinegar in it until the next day. Time, about three months to stand. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for three gallons and a half. Vinegar and Lemon Whey (Invalid Cookery.)—Take a sufficient quantity of boiling nulk, and pour into it as much vinegar or lemon whey as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a lump or two of sugar. This drink is less heating than if made with wine, and, if only to excite perspiration, answers as well. Vinegar, Basil.—FiU a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh green basil-leaves, cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days. If a very strong essence be re- quired, the liquor must be strained ofP, and more leaves be added to it, to steep in it for another fortnight; when this is done it must be corked down. When used, a table-spoonful will give to mock-turtle soup the basU flavour. Vinegar, Cider.—Cider is the principal source of vinegar in the northern states of North America. The common family method is as follows:—The vinegar barrel in summer is placed in the garret, or on the sunny side of a building, and in winter in a room where it does not freeze. The refuse cider, already sour, or the daily remnants of the family table, are added to some good vinegar in the barrel, or to the mother of vinegar, as it is called. This mother of vinegar is a white or yellowish ropy coagu- lum of a mucilaginous appearance which is formed in the vinegar, and acts as a ferment upon cider not yet thoroughly acidified. The fermentation is often aided by putting into it a piece of dough or lean animal muscle, or by adding molasses, or the sugar which falls spon- taneously from molasses. In a few weeks the vinegar will be formed. Vinegar, Colourless.—To render pick- ling vinegar colourless, which it should be for some sorts of pickles, stir together one gallon of the best pickling vinegar and six ounces of bone black (animal charcoal); let the mixture stand for two or three days, then pour off the clear vinegar. Vinegar, Cucumber.—Take eighteen large cucumbers and six large onions; slice them thin, and put them into a pan with twelve shallots, one head of garlic, a table-spoonful of salt, the same of ground pepper, and a tea- epoonful of cayenne pepper. Add to these two quarts of good \'inegar, and let it stand four days ; then strain it through a flannel bag, <».nd bottle it, with twenty peppercorns in each bottle. Vinegar for Salads.—Put into a jar two handf uls of tarragon, half a handful of cress, the B?imc of chervil and of the young leaves of the pimpernel, and two cloves of garlic; fill the jar with vinegar, cover it closely, and let it infuse for eight days; then strain and bottle it. Vinegar, Fruit.—Take pears, apples, or any other juicy fruit, crush them well with a stamper, and put them in a suitable tub. For every two bushels of fruit add four gallons of boiling water. Stir wcU, and set the prepara- tion in a warm place for a week, skimming o£E impiirities whenever fermentation arises. At the end of that time strain the vinegar through strong fine linen, pressing the pulp. Put the juice in a barrel, stir in a pint of yeast, and throw in a piece of bread. Let the cask be quite full; put the bung in loosely, and throw- over it a piece of flannel. Set in a warm place for a month or six weeks, when the -\nnegar will be fit for bottling. Vinegar made with a Vinegar Plant.—Boil half a pound of coarse brown sugar and half a pound of treacle in two gallons of water, stir it well, put it into a, large jar, and when it is lukewarm put on it a -vinegar plant. Let it stand in a warm place for two months or more, when the liquor will have turned to vinegar. Boil the vinegar, strain it, and bottle for use. Keep it in a cool place. The vinegar plant is a fungus which grows in the liquor in warmth and darkness. If left without the liquor, it will die. A plant may be purchased often at a trifling cost; market people are the most hkely to sell it. It will form in vinegar casks, and when it is used, a young plant will grow on the old one, which can be applied to the same purpose. In countrj' places it is often spoken of as the " mother.'' Vinegar made with a Vinegar Plant (another way). — By means of the vinegar plant an insipid sort of vinegar is some- times manufactured. The vinegar plant itself may be thus produced:—Take a solution of quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of treacle in three quarts of water, simmer it, then pour it into a jar, cover it up, and keep it in a warm place for six weeks. The liquid will become vinegar, and on the top will form a scum-like fungus, which is the vinegar plant. By adding a piece of this to a similar solution, the process of conversion into vinegar will now take place in much less time. During the pro- cess the plant thickens by the formation of a new layer on its under surface, and by peeling off this layer and using it in a fresh operation, the plant may be propagated indefinitely. The vinegar plant is a fungus somewhat resembling those known by the name of mould. " It forma a flocculent mass or web, which is tough and crust-hke, or leathery. It is found on decaying bodies, and in fluids undergoing the acetous fermentation, which it greatly promotes, and which, indeed, it very, readily occasions—a small piece placed in sugar and water soon changing it into vinegar. Vinegar, Malt.—In Great Britain vinegar is usually made from malt. By mashing with hot water, one hundred gallons of wort are ex.- tracted in less than two hours from one boll of malt. When the liquor has fallen to the tem- perature of 75" Fahr., four gallons of the barm of beer are added. After thirty-six hours it is racked off into casks, placed upright, having a false cover, pierced with holes, fixed at about a foot from their bottom. On this a considerable quantity of rape, or the refuse from the makers