( 684 ) BAB BAB raLbitB. Chooso niodoratoly young rabbits, skin, draw, and wasli tlioiu. TrusH them witli Iho heads skew(!rod to the sides, drop them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until ilono onough. Drain them, and serve either with onion, liver, white, or mushroom sauce, or parsley and butter. The first of these is generally preferred. Hend boiled bacon to table with the boiled rablnts, or garnish the dish with mshers of broiled bacon. The flesh ■ of a boiled rabbit will bo rendered more juicy ' nnd tender if it is soaked in milk and water for a couple of hours before being boiled. Its flavour, too, will be improved if an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, half a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt aro put into the water with it. Time to simmer the 'rabbits, thirty to forty-five minutes, according to age and size. A very young rabbit will bo done enough in twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient, two rabbits for five or six persons. Babbit, Boiled (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe). .—Truss the rabbits short, lay them in a basin of warm water for ten minutes, then put them into plenty of water, and boil them about half an hour; if large ones, three quarters; if very old, an hour; smother them with plenty of white onion sauce, mince the liver, and lay it round the dish, or make liver sauce, and send it up in a boat. Ask those you are going to make liver sauce for, if they like plain liver •sauce, or liver and parsley, or liver and lemon sauce. It will save much trouble to the carver if the" rabbits be cut up in the Idtchen into pieces fit to serve at table, and the head divided, one half laid at each end, and slices of lemon and tho liver chopped very finely laid on the sides of the dish. At all events, cut off the head before you send it to table. We hardly remember that the thing ever lived if we do not sec the head, while it may excite ugly ideas to see it cut up in an attitude imitative of life; besides, for the preservation of the] head the poor animal sometimes suffers a slower deatli. Babbit, Boiled, and Onions. — Take one or two rabbits, skin them, and skewer as for boiling; put them into warm water in order to extract all the blood; when they are very white, boil in boiling water and a little salt. They will take from three-quarters to one hour. Make the sauce as follows :—Peel a dozen white onions, cut off the tops and tails, then cut them into six pieces each, put them to boil in boiling water and a little salt; when nearly done, drain them on a sieve, put them into a clean towel, squeeze out the water, then chop them very fine; put them into a stewpan ■with half a quarter of a jjound of butter, let them fry to drain the water away; then put half a spoonful of flour, mix well together, and moisten with cream or milk, but cream is preferable ; next let this sauce boil doNNTi on a sharp fire, put some salt and pepper to it, and malcc it rather thick. Drain the rabbits, and cover them 7?-th this sauce. Babbit, Boiled, To Carve. — First Hepanito the l<!gs and shoulders; then cut the bark across into tyvo parts. Tlus may readily be accomplished by inserting the knife in the joint, and raising up tho back with the fork. As in the case of the liaie, the back of the rabbit is best worth (jating. Some liver-sauce should always be served with boiled rabbit. BABBrr, BOILED, TO CABVE. Babbit, Boudins of.—Take the white flcsil of a rabbit. Free it from skin and sinew, mince finely, pound weU, and make into a delicate forcemeat, by mixing with each pound of meat two ounces of butter, one ounce of fat bacon, and a dessert-spoonful of flour. Season the forcemeat with salt, pepper, and pounded mace,' flavour with dressed onions or mush- rooms finely minced, and bind it together with one or two yolks of eggs. Beat till it is quite smooth. Spread it on a dish, and form the forcemeat into small sausages. Put these into a stewpan, cover with boiling stock, and let them simmer gently until the forcemeat is set. Drain them, dish them in a circle, pour over them some nicely-flavoured brown sauce, and serve very hot. If liked, two or three pounded potatoes, or a small portion of panada, may be mixed with the forcemeat; if so the flour should be omitted. This is a convenient way of using the remains of cold dressed rabbit. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil the boudins.: Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. , . Babbit, Boudins of (a la Peine).— Prepare in the same manner as croquettes {see Rabbit, Croquettes of: II. Tide's' way); roU the meat into large boudins, sausage shape, dip into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them. Serve under them some veloute, with a little glaze of game. For croquettes or boudins d la reine, made of fowls, rabbits, or game, if you should have by you some sweetbreads, they will be a great improvement, as they make them more mellow and delicate. Babbit, BVoiled (a la Maintenon).—Cut up a f icsli young rabbit into neat joints con- venient for sers'ing. Put these into a stfewpan, pour over them as much good stock as will barely cover them, and put \s'ith them a bunch of parsley, one or two sticks of celerj-, two onions, a blade of mace, a sliced carrot, six or eight peppercorns, and half a dozen mushrooms. Let them simmer gently for half an hour. Take them up, drain them, and let them cool. Cut as many pieces of writing-paper as there are pieces of rabbit, butter these, and lay inside each one a piece of fat bacon. Lay the rabbit on this, and sprinkle over it a little white pepper and grated nutmeg. Fold the paper round the meat, and broil the pieces of rabbit over a clmv fire until the bacon has had time to cook suf- ficiently. Serve in the papers. Thicken the