( 658 ) PIG PIG it two or thrco times while it is being cooked with llio li(iui(l. Tut llio head on a hot dish. Skim and strain tho sauce, and send it to tablu in a tureen. Time, five days to lie in tho marinade; a quarter of an hour to colour tho head; ono hour and a half to steam it. Pro- bable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig's Head, Roast.—Take up a pig's head which has been already boiled until it is sufficiently tender to take out tho bones. Shape it neatly, and skewer it finnly. Sprinkle over it some sage-leaves, finely powdered, and a little pepper and salt, and hang it before a clear fire. Baste it well whilst it is roasting. Servo on a hot dish, with a good gravy poured over it, and send apple sauce to table in a tureen. Time to roast, half an hour. Pig's Head, Scrapple of (an American dish).—Scald and clean a pig's head, and remove the hair, the snout, the ears, and the brain. Put it on the fire in four quarts of cold water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim carefully, season the liquid rather highly with salt and cayenne, and add half a dozen sage- leaves, chopped small. Let the head simmer gently for two hours, then take out the bones, mince the flesh finely, and put it back into the liquid. Stir in as much sifted corn-meal as will thicken the liquid, and simmer two hours longer, until it is of the consistency of thick porridge. Pour it into deep jars, and set in a cool place. When scrapple of pig's head is to be eaten, cut it into slices, and fry these in hot fat for break- fast. Time, ten minutes to fry the slices. Probable cost of head, 8d. per pound. Suffi- cient for three or four good-sized jars. Pig's Kidneys.—Pig's kidneys may be broiled, fried, or stewed, in the same way as mutton kidneys. The skirts may be cooked with the kidneys. Cut them, lengthwise, into slices a quarter of an inch thick, season with salt and cayenne, and sprinkle over them a dessert-spoonful of finely-powdered herbs, of which two-thirds should be parsley, and one- third chives. Fry them for five or six minutes in two ounces of hot butter, and when nicely browned, stir a dessert-spoonful of flour in amongst them, and add, very gradually, a quarter of a pint of good gravy, and a table- spoonful of ketchup. When on the point of boiling, take out the meat, put it on a hot dish, let the sauce remain on the fire for one minute, and pour it boiling over the kidneys. Garnish with toasted sippets. A glassful of light wine may be added to the sauce or not. Time, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Pig's Kidneys. Broiled.—Split the kidneys lengthwise from the rounded part, without separating them entirely. Peel off the skin, and pass a wooden or metal skewer through them to keep them flat. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and powdered sage over them, oil them slightly, and broil them over a clear fire, the hollow side first, so that the gravy may be kept in when they are turned. Serve on a hot dish, either with or without maitre d'hOtel sauce in a tureen. Time to broil tho kidneys, four minutes each mdc, or more, ac- cording to the size. Sufficient for two persona. Pig's Kidneys, Pried. — Peel tho kidneys, cut them into slices, dip them in clariiicd butter, and afterwards into a mixture, made of two finely-minced shuUota, two table- spoonfuls of cliopped parsley, a pinch of l)Owdorcd thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Fry them in an ounce of butter until thoy are lightly browned, put them into a hot disli, and mix with tho butter two table-spoonfuls of thick brown gravy and two tabie-spoonfuIb of claret. Boil the sauce, pour it over the kidneys, and serve hot. If no sauce is at hand, take the kidneys up, mix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with the butter in the pan, and add a wine-glassful of boiling water, a dessert-si^on- ful of mushroom-ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, and a glassful of claret. Boil the sauce, and strain it over the kidneys. Time to fry, six minutes. Probable cost of pig's kidneys, 6d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pig's Liver, Baked.—Pig's liver may be dressed according to the directions given for calf's liver. It is very good prepared as follows :—Soak a fresh pig's fiver and cut it iuto slices less than half an inch thick. Boil and mash two poimds of potatoes, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a well-buttered mould. Lay on this a few slices of the hver, with an equal number of slices of fat bacon, and sprinkle over the meat a little pepper, chopped parsley, minced onion, and powdered sage. Put in potatoes again, and repeat until the dish is full, remembering always that the topmost layer must consist of potatoes. Pour half a cupful of boiling stock or water over the whole, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn the mould upon a hot dish, bro-wm the top with a salamander, and serve. A large handful of parsley, two sage-leaves, two onions, and a tea- spoonful of pepper, will season this dish. The amount of salt required must be regulated by the quahty of the bacon. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Liver, Baked in a Caul.—Wash and soak the liver until it is quite free from blood. Di-sade it into halves, horizontally, without separating the two pieces, and lay it open on a dish. Sprinkle pepper and salt on it, pour over it two ounces of clarified butter, and let it Ue for twenty minutes. Spread evenly over it a layer of forcemeat, a quarter of an inch in thickness, close the liver, and wrap it in some pig's caul, or " leaf," which has been soaked in cold water, drained, and dried in a soft cloth. Put the roll in a deep dish, with a slice of fat bacon under and over it, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is done enough take it out of its covering, and serve on a hot dish, with the gravy which has flowed from it, mixed with a little lemon-juice. "The force- meat may bo made as follows :—^Mincc half a pound of loan ham, and mix with it half a pound of fat bacon, four ounces of buUor. half a dozen chopped onions, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of