( 748 ) BIO BIC Add lomon-juiw or wiuo, and let the jelly cool, then servo. Rice Jelly (another way).—See Jelly, Kice. Rice, Lamb with {stw Lamb with Rice). Rice, Lemon {xee Lemon llice). Rice Meridon.—Kice meridon is on a large scale what the rissole is on a small scah;, namely, a crust enclosing a stuffing or forccnioat, but the preparation is different. Take half a pound of rice, well washed and picked, boil it in a quart of milk for an hour; by this time the rice will have soaked up the milk and become swollen and tender. Care must be taken to keep it stirred, that it may not stick to the saucepan. Now stii" in foui- ounces of butter, six whole eggs, and a little salt; let it remain tn-er the fire till the eggs thicken the whole; it must be stirred all the time; then set it aside to cool; when cold, take a form well buttered and sprinkled with bread-crumbs, which line about an inch with the cold rice; fill the vacant space with a blanquette, a ragout, or a force- meat prepared for fowl or fish rissole; cover the top with a thick layer of rice, and bake. When it has baked a quarter of an hour, and the rice has become nicely browned, gently loosen it with a knife from the form, put a dish on the top, and tm-n it out. Great care must be taken that it does not burst, which will spoil the effect. Serve with a good sauce. Rice Meringue.—Boil half a pound of rice in water till almost tender, drain it, and put it into the saucepan with a pint of milk and a little sugar and flavouring. Let it simmer till it has absorbed all the milk, pour it out, and stir into it the yolks of four well-beaten eggs. Spread it on a buttered dish, beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth with a table-spoonful of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and lay this neatly and evenly over the surface. Sprinkle a little powdered sugar on the top, and bake in a moderatoly-heated oven till the surface is brightly brosvned. The meringue will be im- proved if any kind of fruit is boiled to pulp, sweetened, and laid in the centre of the dish, the rice being arranged in a wall roimd it, and the white of egg plastered over all. Time to brown the surface, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the fruit. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Milk.—Wash two table-spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it in a quart of milk till tender. Put a piece of butter the size of a pea into it, and stir occasionally to keep it from burning. Rub it through a sieve, sweeten and flavour it, boil up again, and serve. When milk is not plentiful, the rice maj^ be softened in water, and afterwards boiled in a small quantity of milk. This is a very whole- some dish for children. A little finely-shred suet boiled with it will make it more nourish- ing. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour to one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rice Milk (a Spanish recipe).—Take a •pound of rice, wash it, and i)ut it into a stew- pan \vit\\ cold water; half cook, drain it, and complete the cooking in milk. The rice should i be kept on the fire till it is very tender but not m a pulp; at the last moment add sugar to taste. When done enough, place the rice in a deep dish, smooth the surfac<3, and place on the top a buttered paper ; cut out in any open or- namental pattern. Mix cinnamon powder witli a little sugar, and sprinkle this over the paper; remove the jiaper, and the pattern will be found described with sugar on the surface of the rice. Rice-Milk {nee Milk-Rice and Rice Caudle). Rice, Mussels and (an Algerian recipe). —Wash the mussels well; set them on the fire in a stewpan without any water, but with a close-fitting lid. Shake them up from tiuie to time so as to bring them all in turn to the bottom. They will gradually open and give out their liquor, in which, and in the steam from it, they will cook. When they are all well opened and detach easily from the shell, turn them out into a large-holed colander placed over a vessel to catch the liquor which strains, and set aside to settle. Take the mussels out of their shells, rejecting the weed attached to their inside and any little parasitical crabs within them, and put them aside. Boil rice as if for a curry, so as to be as dry as possible when done. To this put a good lump of butter and a few table-spoonfuls of the mussel liquor, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put in the mussels, beat up all together, mixing with- out breaking them; or heap the warmed-up mussels in the centre of a dish, and surround them with the seasoned rice. Rice, Norfolk {see Norfolk Rice). Rice, Nutritive Properties of.—The seeds of rice contain a much less proportion of nitrogenised compounds than the other cereal grains, and particularly wheat, viz., about seven per cent.; the quantity of fatty matter is also less. Much difference of opinion has prevailed in reference to the value of rice as an aiticle of diet, some persons placing it very high. Analj'sis, however, clearly proves that it is the least nutritious of the cereal grasses. This diflterence of opinion has probably arisen from the fact that rice is seldom eaten by itself, but is partaken of usually with milk, butter, or sugar, the nutritious portions of wiiiih sub- stances have been attributed to the rice itself. The following analy sis of rice is by Bni- connot:— Carolina. Piedxuout. Water . 5-0 7-0 Husk 4-8 4-8 Gluten . 3-6 3-6 Starch . 86 07 83-8 Sugar 0-3 005 Gum 0-7 01 Oil. 013 0-25 Phosphates 0-4 0-4 1000 1000 " Rice," remarks Professor Johnston in his " Cliemistry of Common Lif(>," " is remarkable chiefly for the c'omparatively small proportion of gluten it contains. This docs not exceed seven or eight per cent.—less than half V..e