WIN WIN ( 1144 ) Winter Hotch-Potch (another way) .— 'J'liis ilisli may oithcr bo made of fresh hoof or of a uock or back ribs of mutton, or of a mix- tiiru of both. Cut four pounds of moat into neat piecos. Boil and skim woU, add caiTots and turnips sliced, small leeks and parsley cut down, and some German greens shred; and, if tender, put in only half an hour before the soup is completed. Season with pepper and siilt. The quantity of vegetables must be regulated by the quantity of meat, so that tho soup may have consistency, but not be dis- agreeably thick. Serve the meat and soup together. Rice or dry but melting gi-een peas may, if Uked, be boiled in the soup. Winter Jelly, Mosaic. — Boil half a pint of cream. When it boils, infuse the peel either of an orange or of a lemon, according as you -wish to decorate the jelly with either. When the cream has imbibed the flavour of the fruit, put in a little sugar. Break the yolks of four eggs, which beat with tho cream, lay it on the fire to thicken, and then put in some isin- glass that has previously been melted. Strain the whole thi-ough a hair sieve, and put it in a basin, well covered, on some ice, in order that it may get quite firm. Now take the mould which you intend to use, brush it lightly with oil all over the inside, and then cut the white cream jelly with a knife in the first place, and next with small tin cutters. Decorate the mould without putting it on ice, for the damp would prevent the decoration from sticking on. Decorate the bottom first, next the sides; then only put the mould over ice. Now pour a little orange jellj' lightly, not to injure the decora- tion, and let it get thick. When the orange jeUy is frozen, thrust the mould deeper into the ice; then put a little more jelly to the height of the lower decoration on the sides; let the preparation be made firm again. Mind, the jelly is never to come higher than the flowerets till the bottom has been first made fii-m, then gi-adually ascend to the top. Cover and sur- round the mould with ice. When you wish to serve up, dip a towel into some hot water, and rub the mould all round. Ascertain that none of the jelly sticks to the sides before you meddle with the bottom of the mould; then rub the bottom with the hot towel, and turn the jelly neatly into a dish. Were it not for aU these precautions, the two colours would melt and mix with one another. This jeUy looks beautiful when well made. N.B.—It is to be observed, that this jeUy can only be made in winter, hence its name; for during the summer season it would melt, except made hard, then it would not be good; however, you may work it in a very cold place. Winter Salad, Endive with (nee En- dive with Winter Salad). Winter Salads.—In winter-time excellent salads may be made with endive, celery, beet- root, scraped horseradish, boiled potatoes, or whatever vegetables are available. A pretty efPect may be produced by contrasting the different colours of the ingredients. Two or three recipes are given for the preparation of a dish which may be varied in numberless ways. No. I. Wash thoroughly in two or three waters a head of endive and another of celery. Dry thom perfectly, and put with them a small pro- portion of red cabbage finely shred, and some mustard and cress, if it is to bo had. Hub the iiisido of a salad bowl with a slice of fresh onion, put in tlio mixed vegetables, toss them lightly in good salad sauce, garnish the salad with slices of boiled beetroot, and serve. No. 2. Wash a head of endive, dry it perfectly, and shred it finely. Place it in tho contio of a dish, and an-ange neatly round it, first, a littlo red cabbage, and then some white celery cut up small. Garnish the salad with sHced beet- root and hard-boiled eggs, cut into quarters lengthwise. Send the sauce to table in a boat, and mix it with the salad at the moment of serving. No. 3. Take equal poilions of pickled ' cabbage, fresh celery, and cold boiled potato— one pound of each. Cut the celery into small pieces, throw it into boiling water for ten minutes, and drain it. Drain the cabbage from its vinegar, mix it with tho celeiy, and add the cold boiled potatoes thinly sliced. Pepper the salad, toss it Ughtly in three table-spoonfuls of good Lucca oil, add a table-spoonful of chopped tarragon leaves, and serve. No. 4. Boil some small onions; let them get cold, then place them at the bottom of a salad bowl, and put round them three or four gherkins chopped small. Cover with pieces of honing or an- chovy, and add a Uberal allowance of pickled tunny or salmon. Sprinkle a Httle chopped parsley and a table-spoonful of bruised capers over the salad, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise, and olives from which the kernels have been removed. Serve a good sauce with the salad. Cold boiled potatoes, brussels sprouts, endive, or celerj', will be a valuable addition. Beetroot and raw apples may also be added. No. 6. Procure two heads of celery; wash and dry them, and cut the white stalks into pieces an inch long. Toss them Hghtly in a salad bowl with some mayonnaise sauce. Cover the surface with hard-boiled yolk of egg which has been rubbed through a wire sieve; sprinkle a tea-spoonful of chopped green parsley over the egg, and garnish tha celery with a border of boiled beet- root, cut into thin strips and arranged like trellis-work. Two or three black trufiles, chopped small and sprinkled over the egg yolk, will have a very good appearance and improve the flavour of the salad. Gei-man sausage or pink ham, thinly sliced, may be serv^ed round the salad. Cold dressed vegetables, finely shred, and seasoned with pepper, salt, oil, and A-inegar, may be served as a salad {see also Russian Salad). Winter Snow.—Take the white of six eggs, which wiU be enough for an entremct; whip them till they get thick; have some milk boiling over the fire in a large stew^ian; poach several spoonfuls of tho whites in it, and when done enough, di'ain and dish them. Next, make a Siiuce to pour over them in the follow- ing manner : take some of the milk in which you have poached your eggs, then put a Httlo sugar, a Uttle orange-flower, and a httle salt; mix the yolks of four eggs with the same, stir