(716) yolks of throo og-^s with half a pint of milk ; add tho grated rind of a lemon or of a Sevillo ' orange, four ounces of ratatias, two table- j spoonfuls of sugar, and a glassful of brandy. Stir the mixture over tho fire till it thiukcns, rub it through a fine siovo, and mix with it tho gelatine dissolved in milk, and two or throo ounces of candied fruit cut into thin slices. Add a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and boat the mixture thoroughly. l*ut it in a daujp mould, sot it on ice, and when set turn it out carefully. Time to thicken the custard, ton to Hfteon minutes. SulHcient for rather less than a quart. Probable cost, 'is. Ratafia, Marasquin Rose.—In a quart of spirits of wine infuse for a month thirty black cherry stones, after taking away the pulp, but without washing them; filter this liquid through paper. Clarify two pounds and a half of fine sugar, pour it on the liquor; add to it a quart of water and a pint of rum, shake it all well, and when quite clear put it into bottles. This is a most delicious liqueur. Ratafia, Noyeau.—Put into a large jar six ounces of apricot-kernels cut into small pieces, with three quarts of brandy; let them infuse for three weeks, shaking or stirring them from time to time. Take out the kernels; dis- solve a pound and three-quarters of sugar in a pint of water; mix all together, filter, and bottle it. Ratafla. Or ange-fiower.—For each quart of brandy take three ounces of picked orange- flowers and half a pound of fine pounded sugar; put into a jar alternately a layer of sugar and a layer of flowers; let the last be sugar, cover- ing the flowers well and more thickly than the others; cover the jar close; let it stand to infuse for twelve hours, but not longer, in the cellar; at the end of that time, pour the brandy over, and filter, then bottle the ratafia. Ratafia Pudding, Baked.—Slice four penny sponge cakes, lay them in a buttered dish, pour a glassful of sherry over them, and let them soak for a little while. Spread a large spoonful of good jam upon them, and pour over th(;m half a pint of good custard flavoui-ed with almonds. Let the pudding stand for half an hour, cover the to\) with ratafia biscuits, and pour another half-pint of custard over these. Bake in a moderate oven. The custard may be made with three-quarters of a pint of milk, the yolks of four and the white of one egg, two ounces of almonds blanched and pounded, and a table-spoonful of sugar. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the -wine, Is. 6d. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Ratafia Pudding, Baked (another way). —Crush four ounces of ratafias to powder. Mix with thorn two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, a pint of cream, the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a glassful of brandy or sherry. Line a dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a well-heatcd oven. Servo hot or cold. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, exclu.sive of tho wine, 3s. I Ratafia Pudding, Boiled.—Boil the ; thin rind of a l(;mon and an inch of stick cin- namon in thi-eo-quarters of a pint of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured. Sweeten it, pour it over a quarter of a pound of grated bread- crumbs, and lot it cool. Add tlio yolks of four oggs, tho whites of two, and, if it is at hand, a tabhi-spoonful of ratafia, or two or three diops of the flavouring, and boat the mixture woU. Butter a plain mould thickly, lay even rows of ratafias or of sweet almonds "blanched and sliced round it, pour the pudding in gently, cover with a round of buttered writing-paper, tie it up, and steam over boiling water Turn the pudding out gently, and send arrowroot sauce, flavoured with ratafia, to table with it. Time to stojim, rather less than one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for throo or four persons. Ratafia Pudding, Boiled (another way).—Butter a plain round mould thickly, and ornament the inside with even rows of dried cherries. Pour a pint of cream or milk over four penny sponge biscuits and eight ounces of crushed ratafias. Beat the mixture well, add the yolks of six eggs, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a glassful of brandy. Lay a round of buttered paper on the top of the mould, tie it up, and boil or steam the pudding. Serve with arrowroot or wine sauce. Time to steam, one hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Ratafia Puddings.—Blanch and pound to a smooth paste four ounces of sweet almonds and three or four bitter ones. Add a few drops of water to prevent oiling. Mix with the paste a table-spoonful of sugar, two ounces of fresh butter which has been dissolved in a quarter of a pint of hot milk or cream, a table- spoonful of brandy, and two well-beaten eggs. Butter some small cups, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, turn the puddings out carefully, sift white sugar thickly over them, and serve with wine sauce. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the brandy, lOd., if made with milk. Sufiicient for three or four persons. Ratafia, Quince.—Grate ripe quinces till you come to the core, but be careful that there are no pips ; let the mass remain for thi-ee dnya in an earthen pan; squeeze it to extract all the juice, measure it, and add to it an equal quantity of brandy; allow six ounces of sugar to each quart of the mixture, with some cin- namon and cloves to taste; let it infuse for two montlis, then filter it, and pour it into bottles. This liqueur when old is excellent. Ratafia, Raspberry.—Dissolve tinst two pounds of sugar m a pound and a quarter of raspbeiTy-juice and a quarter of a pound of cherry-juice, then add four quarts of brandy. Lot it stand, and when the liquor is quite clear bottle it. Ratafia, Red.—A fortnight before the ratafia is to be made infuse some bruised cloves in brandy, and use this for flavouiing. A drachm will be sufficient for a quart. Put a quarter of a jiound of small black cherries, bometimcs called brandy cherries, into a largo