RHO ( 729 ) BES ready for use. !Many invalids prefer to take this hroth cold in the form of a jelly. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pint. Suffi- cient for nearly two quarts of broth. Or, take half a pound of lean beef, and half a pound of lean mutton or veal. Cut the meat into small pieces, put these into a jar with a closely- fitting lid, pour a quarter of a pint of cold water over them, and plac^ in a moderately- heated oven for half an hour. Take the meat out, pour over it a pint of water, and put it in the oven again for an hour and a half. Strain it thi'Oiigh muslin, carefully remove every particle of fat, and add salt and pepper to taste. These should be put in sparingly, as an invalid's tastes are often peculiar. Suf- ficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint. Probable cost, 9d. per pint. Time, two horns. Or, cut up a partridge into small pieces with a pound of the roll of the bladebone of beef. Fry these in a little butter till they are lightly and equally browned, then lift them out, and l)ut them into a dish. Cut two ounces of undressed ham into dice. Mix with it the red part of a carrot finely scraped, and five or six sticks of celerj' cut up small. Stir these in a saucepan with a little butter for three or four minutes, add the fried meat, a little salt, a pinch of powdered thyme, and three or four pepper- corns, and pour over all three pints of cold spring water. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, remove the sciun as it rises, and throw in a spoonful of cold water now and again to assist it in rising. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, poui' it out, and strain for use. Time, two hours. Probable cost, varying with the price of the partridge. Suffi- cient for a little more than a quart of broth. Or, take a chicken and cut it up into small joints. Put it into a saucepan with two pounds of knuckle of veal broken up into small pieces, an onion stuck with three cloves, six pepper- corns, and one pint of cold water. Boil the liquor quickly until it begins to thicken, and be very careful that it does not burn. Pour over this three quarts of cold water, and add two scraped carrots, and five or six sticks of celery, or half a tea-spoonful of bruised celery-seed. Let the broth boil, remove the scum, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer for two hours. Strain through a sieve, and the broth will be ready for use. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost. Is. per pint. Sufficient for a little more than two quarts. Many physicians are of opinion that Licbig's extract of meat dissolved in a little boiling water forms by itself a most excellent and restorative broth. A small quantity is also a valuable addition to broth made from fresli meat. Restorative Meat Jelly.—Take three or four pounds of the knuckle of veal, the same weight of fresh-killed gravy beef, and one calf's foot; cut the meat from the bones, and chop them in pieces; lay them in the bottom of a f'to\vpan, and put the meat on the top of them ; then add as much cold water as will rise two or throe inches above the meat; let the whole simmer very gently for four hours, taking great care to remove every particle of scum as it rises iii the first boiling. Strain throutrh a fine hair sieve, and the next morning the whole of the fat can be taken off. Revalenta Arabica.—Under this name a preparation has long been sold as an empirical diet for invalids, uncommon restorative pro- perties being attributed to it. It is really nothing but a preparation of the common lentil. Its nutritive value is about on a par with that of good pea-meal, the constituents of 100 parts of each being as follows :— Lentil Meal or Revalenta. Water 12-70 Nitrogenous matter . . . 24*57 Starch 59-43 Fatty matter 1-01 Inorganic matter . . . .2-29 100-00 Fea Meal. Water 12-60 Nitrogenous matter . . . 25-30 Starch 58-38 Fatty matter 1-20 Inorganic matter . . . . 2-52 100-00 Revolution Cake (sometimes called La- fayette Cake).—Take a Savoy or Madeira cake which has been baked in a plain square mould, and cut it into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness. Spread some jam over these, and place five or six slices together, one on the top of the other. Whisk the whites of two eggs thoroughly, add half a poimd of finely-sifted sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice or orange-flower water. Whisk the mixture until quite smooth, spread it evenly over the cake with the back of a spoon, and mark the shape of the pieces in which it is afterwards to be cut. Place the cake in a very cool oven to dry the icing. Two or three drops of cochineal will give it a rose tint. Time, half an hour to prepare. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient, one cake for three or four persons. Rhenish Cream.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass and four ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of boiUng -water, and let the liquor stand until cold. Add the grated rind of haK a SeviUc \ orange, and one lemon, and the juice of both, j or, if preferred, the rind of two and the juice of I three lemons. Add the yolks of four fresli eggs and half a pint of light -wine, and boiJ gently, stin-ing all the time until it is on the point of boiling; pour it into a damp mould, and let it stand in a cool place till set. The flavour of this cream is often varied by the addition of two ounces of sweet almonds and eight bitter ones, which have been blanched and pounded, then mixed with a cupful of cold water, and allowed to soak for an hour. When this addition is made it will be desirable to add the yolks of two more eggs to the cream. Time to prepare the almonds, an hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, Is. lOd. Sufficient for a quart mould. Rhododendron, Yellow-flowered.— The Rhododendron Chrysantliomum, or yellow- flowered rhododendron, a native of Siberia