VEA ( 1048 ) VEA. Dissolyo a slice of butter in a stowpan, put in tho onion tuid bacon, unil when tho latter bogina to aoi'ten, put in tho livor with ii BouBoning of popper, aiilt, and gritted nutmeg. Stir tho mixture over tho fire till the liver I0HO8 its red appearance, turn it out to cool, and beat it to a paste. Add foiu- woll-beaton eggs with a few stewed mushrooms or truflles cut into pieces, if these are to bo had. Lino a basin with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the mince, and cover the top with bacon. Cover the basin closely, and bake the mince in the oven, or gently steam it over hot water till a skewer will pierce it easily. Let it remain till cold, trim neatly, and servo cut into slices. Veal, Godiveau (a kind of forcemeat).— Take a quarter of a pound of lean veal free from skin and sinew and an equal weight of good beef suet. JMince these very finely. Add a small bunch of parsley and a few chives chopped small, together with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pound the ingi-edients in a mortar till they form a smooth, fiiTu paste, and place this on ice for an hour. Put it again into the mortar with three ounces of pure ice, and pound it till it looks soft and creamy. Roll it on the table with flour, divide it into small round balls about the size of marbles, and bake these on a baking-sheet in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake the balls, five minutes. Veal, Goose.—This very savoury dish, which is a favoui-ite with many, may be made of breast of veal after the tendons or bones have been removed, or of the upper part of the flank of the loin, or of the skin of the best end of the neck which has been pared off with about an inch and a half of the flesh adhering to it. Lay the meat upon a table, cover with sage and onion stuffing, such as is used for goose; then roll it, bind securely with tape, and roast before a clear fire. When done enough place it upon a hot dish, and send good brown gravy and apple sauce to table with it. Veal Gravy, Endive with.—"Wash and clean twelve heads of endive, and beware of the worms which generally are found in the heart. After having taken off all the green part of the leaves, wash the endive again in two or three different waters, and blanch them to take off the bitter taste. Then throw them into cold water, and when quite cold squeeze them tiU there is no water left in them, then chop them very fine. Next stew them in a quantity of gravy sufficient to cover them entirely, to which add a little salt and a very small lump of sugar to cover the bitter tart taste of the endive. Ascertain if they are done enough by squeezing a bit between two fingers; if very tender they are done. Then add two spoonfuls of Spanish sauce reduced, and use them either for entremets under poached eggs or for entrees, such as minces of mutton, fricandeaux, sweetbreads, fillets of fowl, &c. Veal, Gravy for,—Take the bones and trimmings of the veal, and if the bones are large break them into small pieces. Put them into a saucepan, and pom over them as much cold watar aa will cover them. Supposing there is a quart of water, ad<l a bunch of parsley, two sprigs of tliyiuo or marjoruiii, a quarter of tho rind of a Icnujii thinly pared, a blade of mace, a jiinch of pcjipta-, and a few stripL of bacon-rind if they are at hand. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the liquor gently till it is strong and jileasantly flavoured. Strain it, pour it into a bowl, and when cold remove the fat from the top. When wanted, thicken with a little brown thickening, and let it remain at the side of the fire till it has thrown up the fat. If brown thickening is not at hand, mix two table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with a little cold water and a slice of butter, boil this with the stock, and add a Httlo sugar-browning. Pour the fat from tho pan under the veal, leaving the brown gravy untouched. Stir the sauce into the pan, dissolve a small lump of sugar in it, add a little salt, boil it up once more, and serve very hot. A httle boiling cream may be added if liked. Time, one to two hours to simmer the stock. Veal, Grenadin of.—Prepare an equal number of neat pieces of lean veal seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and of slices of good bacon, together with a portion of good forcemeat. Line a small dish with a veal caul, and be careful to leave as much of the skin hanging over the sides as wiU. cover the meat entirely. Fill the dish with alternate layers of bacon, veal, and forcemeat, and let bacon form the \mdermost and uppermost layers. Minced mushrooms and savoury herbs may be added or not. Fasten the caul over the meat, tie three or four folds of paper over the dish, and bake the grenadin in a moderately-heated oven. Turn it upon a dish, and send plenty of good brown gravy to table with it. Time to bake a small dish, about an hour. Veal, Grenadins of.—Take a sHce of veal from the fillet about an inch in thickness, and divide it into neat round pieces; or if pre- ferred the roimd piece of lean cut out of fi\-e or six chops from the best end of a neck or loin of veal may be used. Flatten the coUops, and lard them on one side only very thickly with strips of fat bacon. Put the bones and trim- mings of the veal into a stewpan with a pint and a half of cold water, a canrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with two cloves, a mmch of sweet herbs, a sprig of marjoram, an ounce of lean ham, a small lump of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of unmixed mustard, and a little salt and white pepper. Let the sauce boil till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Skim frequently, and when it is done enough strain, let it get cold, and then remove the cake of fat from the top. Eub the bottom of a bright stewpan quickly across with garlic, dissolve a thick slice of fresh butter in it, lay in the pieces of veal, the larded side uppermost, and let them remain until they are hghtly browned. Pour m as much of tho strained gravy as wiU just touch without covei-ing the larding, and let the veal simmer gently till done enough. Skmi the gi-avy, and baste the veal with the hquor frequently. Take out the veal, and put into tho gravy a pint of young freslily-shelled green peas, with a small lump of white siigar. Leave the Ud off the pan, and let the peas hod