SAL SAL ( 796 ) cut up small. Add four anchovios, previously soaked in milk or water for a short timo, freed from skin and bone, and torn into tlakos, a tablo-spoonful of woU-diainod capi^rs, a taljlo- spoonful of picklod gherkins chopped small, a table-spoonful of chopped tarragon loaves, two table-spoonfuls of chopped chervil, and twenty stoned olives. Mix those ingredients lightly, idd some sjilad dressing of oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and season the preparation rather highly. If liked, the anchovies may be omitted and a dozen or more of freshly-opened oysters may be laid upon the mixture. Salad Vinegar.—Take three ounces each of shallots, sweet savory, chives, and tarragon. Bruise them in a mortar, put them into a large stone jar, and with them two table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered mint, and the same of balm. Pour over all a gallon of the best vine- gar, cork the bottle securely, and put it in the Bun. At the end of a fortnight strain the vinegar through a filtering bag, put it into small bottles, cork these tightly, and use the vinegar for salads, &c., instead of ordinary vinegar. " Salade " (a pickle for present use).— Almost fill a quart stone jar with equal quan- tities of peeled onions, pared cucumbers, and sour apples, all cut into thin slices. Whilst filling the jar sprinkle in a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful and a half of cayenne, two wine-glassfuls of soy, and two wine-glassfuls of white wine. Fill up the jar with vinegar, cover the pickle with bladder, and store in a cool dry place. The preparation may be used the same day. Salads.—Recipes for the following salads will be found under their respective headings:— Anchovy Moor Game, a la Artichoke Soyer Beans, French Nautese Beetroot Orange Celery Partridge Chicken, Plain Poet's Recipe Chicken, Rich Potato Crab Potatoes en Salade Currant Ptarmigan Egg Rabbit Endive with Winter Rabbit, Simple Salad Raspberry Fish Remoulade, French French Salad Dressing German Remoulade, Green Grouse Remoulade, Indian Grouse a la Soyer Rochelle Hamburg Beef Russian Hop, German Salmagundi Indian Salsify Italian Sauce Kitchiner's Mix- Shikaree ture Sidney Smith's {see Lettuce, German Poet's Recipe) liETTUcE IN Salads Spanish Lobster Strawberry LoiLSTER, German Summer Lobster Salad Turbot Dressing Vegetable Mixture {xee Kit- Vinegar chiner's Salad Watercress Mixture) Wintbb "Our ancestors," says a great culinary autho- rity, " served salads with roasted moat, roasted poultry, &c. 'I'hey had a great many which are no longer in vogue. They ate leeks cooked in the wood-ashes, and seasoned with sitlt and honey; borage, mint, and parsley, with salt and oil; lettuce, fennel, mint, chervil, parsley, and elderflowers, mixed together. They also classed among their salads an agglomeration of feet, heads, cocks' combs, and fowls' livers, cooked, and seasoned with parsley, mint, vine- gar, pepper, and cinnamon. Nettles, and the twigs of rosemary fonned delicious salads for our forefathers; and to these they Bometimes added pickled gherkins." Salads, Wholesomeness of. — For persons of weak digestion, salads as a rule are not suited. When, however, the stomach is equal to the work, they appear generally to exer- cise a beneficial effect on the system, particularly in the case of salads derived from the tribe of the cruciferous plants, to which the watercress, radish, mustard, cress, scurvy-grass, and such- like, belong. " Many persons," says a medical writer, "with whom raw vegetables, such as salads, cucumbers, &c., invariably disagree if eaten ' undressed,' find the addition of the ordinary salad or ' Florence' oil correct the tendency. In this country some individuals have a prejudice against the use of oil. It is difficult to see why it should extend to the beautiful preparation in question." Salads are eaten as a condiment, not as an article of aliment. They are of great use in moderating the excitement of the sj'stem which would be produced by a diet composed altogether of animal food, particularly in hot weather. They are also very effective as anti- scorbutics. One should observe moderation, however, in eating salads, and they should be avoided by dyspeptic patients. Salamander.—This is an instrument which is, after being made red-hot, used to bro\vn any- thing wanting colour. An old iron fire-shovel if heated thoroughly and held over the article to be browned will answer the same purpose. Price, 6s. to 12s. Saleratus. — Saleratus is a carbonate of potash used in cookery to make bread or cakes light. It should be kept in a wooden box with a cover, and no moisture should be allowed to reach it, as very little will spread through and dissolve a large quantity. Saleratus should be powdered and (Mssolved in a little hot water before it is put into the bread. Half a tea- spoonful dissolved in water and added to a pound cake wiU ensure its being light. Sallylunns. — Sallylunns aro served at breakfast or tea, and are generally much liked. They should be put on the table on a hot plate very hot and well buttered. If they are not to be used at once after being baked, it will be well not to overbake them, as they will need to be heated a second time. They are considered very indigestible. They may be made in either of the following ways:—Rub half a pound of butter into two pounds of flour. Add a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast mixed with a pint of lukewarm milk, and