BIN ( 7«7 ; HIS Bink Cake.—Take threo-quartei-s of a ]iuiiik1 of fresh butter, beat it up, and add to it clir('L'-(iuavti'is of a pound of sugar, one pound of llour, tlie yolks of seven e'^gs and the whites of four beaten to a snow. When these ingio- dients are thoroughly incorporated, butter a sheet of white paper, and spread the paste upon it rather thinly; have ready some almonds blanched and sliced; lay them upon the paste in rows, strewing cm-rants between; strew sifted sugar over the whole. When the cake is baked of a light-brown colour, cut it into squares while warm, in such a way that there will be almonds and currants on each square. Kemove the paper quickly. BisottO.—This is an elegant Italian dish, the principal ingredient of which is rice. Shred onions into a frying-pan with plenty of butter, and fry till the onions become very brown and commimicate their colour to the butter. Run the butter off, and add to this some rich broth, slightly flavoured with saffron; thicken the whole with well-boiled rice, and serve up as a pottage, instead of soup, it the beginning of dinner. Bissables. — Chop ve?i and ham finely together, add a few bread crumbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little parsiey and lemon-peel or shallot, lilix these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggS well beaten. Roll the pre- paration into shape like a flat sausage, or into the shape of pears, sticking a bit of horse-radish in the ends to represent the stalks; egg over each, and gi-ate bread-crumbs upon them. Fry to a broNvn colour, and serve on crisp fried parsley. Bissoles.—Rissoles are composed of savoury mince of any kind enclosed in pastry and fried. They may be served with gravy, or they may bo sent up dry on a neatly-folded napkin. The latter is the more usual manner. They are chiefly useful as furnishing a convenient and elegant mode of using the remains of cold- dressed meat, game, or tish. Patties if fried instead of baked will become rissoles. Ris- soles should be thoroughly drained from fat either on a sieve or on blotting-paper before being sent to table. The dift'erence between a rissole and a croquette is that a rissole is always fried in pastry, a croquette is egged, breaded, and fried. Bissoles, Beef .—Take one pound of cold- dressed beef. Cut it into thin slices, remove the gristle, and chop the meat finely. Mix with it a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, thiee table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a blade of mace finely pounded, and a little pepper and salt. Bind the whole together -v^dth a beaten egg. If it is not suflSciently moist with this, add a little meat gravy and a spoon- ful of ketchup. Roll out the trimmings of puff paste to the thicljuess of a florin. Place small balls of mince, two inches from the edge and one inch distant from each other, moisten tlie pastry round the meat with water, and fold it over the balls. Stamp the rissoles out in rounds, and press the edges securely together. Dredge lightly with flour, and then fry in fat, not too hot, till they lue browned. Drain them, and serve on a napldn garnished with parsley. Or prepare the mince as above. Roll out the pastry, and stamp it in rounds two inches in diameter. Place a little ball of meat in the centre, moisten the edges of the pastrj-, draw it up over the meat, and pinch it seciu'ely. Or stamp out an equal number of rounds. Place a little ball of meat upon one round, moisten the edges, and lay another round upon it. Press the edges of the pastry securely to- gether, and flute them with, the back of a knife. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bissoles (Careme's recipe).—^Take tliree- quarters of a pound of Brioche paste. Roll it out very thin, and place upon it—about two inches from the edge and one inch fi-om each other—small balls about the size of a nutmeg of any savoury mince. Brush the pastry round the mince with beaten egg, fold it over the meat. Press it round each ball, stamp out the rissoles with a pastry-cutter two inches in diameter, taking care to keep the mince- meat ball exactly in the centre of each one. Lay the rissoles on a hot plate for two or three minutes to make them rise, and fry in but- ter or lard, not too hot, till they are brown They wdll become quite round. Drain them from the fat, and serve very hot. Bissoles, Cold Mutton, Chicken, Turkey, Veal, &C.—Prepare the mince, and proceed as in the last recipe, substituting mutton, veal, or poultry, for the beef. With veal and poultry, the weight of a fourth part of the meat in lean ham, tongue, or bacon, may be added to the mince, and the flavouring may be varied to suit the palate. Bissoles, Gravy for (see Gravy for Rissoles). Bissoles of Calves' Brains.—Take two sets of brains; let them soak for some time in warm water; skim them carefully, and boil them a quarter of an hour in salt and water; let them drain; then fry them in four ounces of butter. When they have lost their fluidity, sprinkle them with a spoonful of flour, fry them again a little, and pour over as much broth as will convert them into a thickish fluid; beat up the yoUvs of three eggs and add to it, that it may become firm and thick; season with pepper, salt, and gi-ated nutmeg; and lastly, add two ounces of beef marrow chopped fine, and set it aside to get cold. Roll out puff paste, stamp it in forms with a cutter, rub the edges with j-olk of egg, put a spoonful of this force- meat in the centre; laj' a piece of the same- sized paste over, pinch down the edges in the shape of a haU-moon or any other shape you may fancy ; dip them in egg beat up, sprinkle them thickly with bread-crumbs, find fry them in hot lard. Serve them quite hot; when you take them out of the pan, throw a handful of fresh-picked parsley into the hot lard; stii- it about gently, and when it ceases crackling, take it o;it, at which moment it will be of a fine gi-cen and crisp; sprinkle it M-ith salt, and strew it over the rissoles.