VEA ( 1046 ) VEA (underdone veal bein^? neither wholesome nor iiH:n'L'iibk(), and tjf a Tiiro brown. Wlien dished, half a pint of nioltod Imttor, HOURitinios mixed' with a blown gravy, is poured over it. Ourry stiuco in a tureen may also bo served with it. Bacon, or fried pork sausage-balls, with greens are among the accompaniments of roasted veal. Veal, Fillet of, with Oysters or Mushrooms. — Komovo the bono from a lillet of veal, and, witliout stufling it, bind it very tightly with tape, so that there may be no hollow loft in the centre. Koast in the usvial way. Whilst it is before the fire, take about two dozen oysters, and scald them in their liquor. Beard them, and simmer the beards in about half a pint of good veal stock. Strain the sauce, add to it the oyster liquor and an equal quantity of cream or milk, and boil with a small piece of white thickening, together with a few drops of anchovy and a little cayenne, nutmeg, and lemon-juice. Take up tlie veal, quickly cut out about a pound from the centre, and keep the meat hot in the oven, ojlince the slice which has been cut cut finely with the oysters, put them into the sauce, and poiu- the whole into the cavity in the veal. Serve very hot. If Kked, mushrooms stewed in butter may be substituted for the oysters. Veal Forcemeat.—No. l. Shred finely half a pound of suet, free from skin and fibre. Mix with it half a pound of bread-crumbs crib- bled thi-ough a colander, the rind of half a small lemon grated, one tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of thyme, a tea-spoonful of marjoram, two small blades of mace pounded. Bind the mixture together with yolk of egg to which a little milk may be added when economy is a consideration. No. 2. Chop finely a quarter of a pound of beef suet with two ounces of lean raw ham and five oimces of bread-crumbs rubbed through a colander. Add a piece of thin lemon-rind about the size of a thumb-nail, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs if fresh—if verj' dry, two tea-spoonfuls— and half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne or white pepper. Bind the mixture together with two whole eggs. No. 3. Take half a pound of veal, and a quarter of a pound of fat bacon. Cut these into strips, and scrape them with the back of a knife, then pound them well in a mortar, and pass the preparation through a sieve. Mix with it the crumb of half a roll, half a drachm of powdered mace, the same quantity of grated nutmeg, a dessert- spoonful of chopped onions, parsley, and mush- rooms, with a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, continually pounding them in the mortar, bind them together with two well-beaten eggs, and poach a small quantity in boiling water. \V7ien the pre- paration is firm, light, and delicately flavoured it will be ready for use. This forcemeat may be used oh all occasions, for pies, balls, &c. When forcemeat is to bo served in the form of balls, mould it to the size and shape of large marbles, put these into hot fat over the fire, and turn thorn about for a few minutes till they are lightly bro%vned. Place them on a sheet of blotting paper before the fire to drain off the fat. When dry they are ready for serving. Veal Forcemeat, Roll of.— Take a pound of lean veal from tlio fillet, three ounces of fat bacon, and two ounces of lean Ijam. Cut the meat in long shces, scrape with a knife, and pound it in a mortar. Mix with it one ounce of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a dessert- spoonful of baked flour, the gmted rind of half a_ small lemon, luilf a shallot finely minced, a pinch of grated imtmeg, and a little pepper. Add the yolks of three and the wliites of two eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Mould the mixture to the shape of a roll. Brush over with the white of the egg which was left untouched, dredge baked flour upon it, roll it in well-oiled paper, tie it in a cloth, and steam over fast-boiUng water till done enough. Turn the roll upon a hot dish, pour a little nicelyrflavoured brown sauce over, and serve verj-^ hot. Time to steam the roU, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Suf- ficient for thi-ee or four persons. Veal, Fricandeaii of.—For this dish— a segment of veal, larded and stewed, with bacon, sUced vegetables, sweet herbs, and sea- sonings—we are indebted to the age of Leo X. Its inventor was Jean de Careme (John of Lent), who received the nickname in conse- quence of a celebrated soupe maigre which he made for the Pope, his master. He was the direct ancestor of the famous Careme, who was cook first to George lY., and afterwards to Baron Eothschild. Leo X., luxurious and mag- nificent in his tastes, was far from narrow- minded in his patronage of merit. He fostered the genius of Raphael, the painter, and en- couraged also the genius which could discover a fricandeau. The following recipe will be found excellent:—Take about three pounds of the fat, fleshy side of a fiUet of veal, of the best quality, or a shoe about four inches thick. With one stroke of the knife cut it even, trim it into an oblong or oval shape, then lard thickly and evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Slice two carrots, two turnips, and two onions, and put these into the centre of a stew- pan with two or throe slices of bacon, the trimmings of the moat, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a little salt and white popper. Put the fricandeau on the vegetables, and pour in about a pint of stock, or as much as will cover the bacon without touching the veal. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents come slowly to the boil, then stow very gently by the side of the lire till the meat is quite tender. Baste frequently with UiJ