( 779 ) RUS BUM strained juice of a lemon. Lay the steak on the dish, pour the juice over, and sprinkle the minced shallot upon it. Serve very hot, with fried potatoes round the dish. Rump Steak, Stewed—No. l. Take a slice of tender rump steak an inch and a half thick. Fry this in hot fat till it is equally and lightly browned. Put it into a saucepan, pour over it as much stock or water as ■will cover it, and add an onion stuck with six cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew as gently as possible for three hours. Take it up, strain the gravy, thicken with flour or roux, and add a spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketch- up, if necessaiy. Serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle over it some pickled cucumber or pickled gherkins finely minced. No. 2. Take a slice of tender rump steak three-quarters of an inch thick. Fry this in butter or hot fat till it is lightly browned, and pour over it as much good gravy or stock as -vviU barely cover it. Add a tea-spoonful of freshly-made mus- tard, a little pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Let the sauce boil up quickly, then put the pan at the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible for one hour or more. Fry in hot fat till lightly browned twelve button mushrooms, twelve small onions, a carrot, a turnip, and two or three sticks of celery, all cut small. Put these into the saucepan, and let all continue simmer- ing till the vegetables are tender. Thicken the gravy with a spoonful of brown thickening; when it is smooth add a table-spoonful of Wor- cester sauce, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the strained juice of a lemon, and a glassful of port or claret. Serve very hot. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Rump Steak, Stewed, with Onions. —Take a pound of tender rump steak, and dredge pepper and a little salt over it. Butter a saucepan which has a tightly-fitting lid very thickly ; or, if preferred, rub it over with good beef dripping. Lay the steak in it, add two large Spanish onions thinly sKced, and an ounce of butter or dripping. Cover the saucepan closely, and put it by the side of the fire to steam as gentlj'' as possible for two hoiu's and a half. Take it up, lay the steak upon a dish, put the onions upon it, and serve immediately. It will be found that sufficient moisture has exuded from the onions to make gravy, although no liquor was put into the pan. If tomatoes are used instead of onions, the dripping wiU not be needed. Time, two and a half hours. Rump Steak, Stewed, with Oysters. —Take a slice of rump steak three quarters of an inch thick, weighing about 2|- pounds. Rub this well on both sides with a savoury mixture made of a minced onion, three salt-spoonfuls of salt, as much summer savoury as will lie on a sixpence, and fry it in hot fat till lightly browned. Lay it in a saucepan with three- quarters of a pint of water, and add a clove, two allspice, a blade of mace, and the liquor from two dozen oysters. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the steak simmer gently till it 18 tender. Take out the steak, strain the gravy, and thicken with a little brown thickcnin-' or ! flour and butter. Let it boil till smooth. Put back the steak and the oysters bearded, let them simmer for five minutes, and then serve. They must on no account boil. When expense is a consideration, tinned oysters may be used for this dish instead of fresh ones. Time, one and a half to two hours. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steak, Stewed, with Piquant Sauce.—Take a pound and a half of tender steak an inch thick, and fry this in hot fat till it is lightly and equally browned. Take it up, put it into a saucepan which has been twice rubbed across with garlic, and pour over it a quarter of a pint of good gravy. Add the strained juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of grated horseradish, a tea-spoonful of finely minced shaUot, a tea-spoonful of chopped pars- ley, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, half a tea- spoonful of mixed mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew gently for an hour. Peel and mince finely two small mushrooms, and a truffle, if it can be had. If not, use four mushrooms. Simmer them quickly in two table-spoonfuls of vinegar for ten minutes. Add them to the steak, simmer all gently together for half an hour longer, and serve. Time, nearly two hours. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rump Steak, Stuffed.—Take two pounds of well-hung steak cut in one piece, and three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay it on a table, and spread upon it a quarter of a pint of good veal stuffing. Roll it round, and tic it with twine, fastening the ends securely. Dissolve a table-spoonful of bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the rolled steak, and turn it about till it is equally browned all over. Pour upon it three- quarters of a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let the steak stew gently until tender. Lay the meat in a hot dish, and remove the twine. Thicken the gravy, pour it over the beef, and serve verj- hot. Time to stew the steak, two hom-s. Probable cost, rump steak. Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. per jjound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steaks, Gravy for.—Pour the fat out of the pan, dredge the joan with flour, let it brown a little, and then put into it one ounce of butter; rub and mix the butter and flour well together in the pan, and when it is a little brown reduce it to the thickness of cream, by mixing gradually with it a little boiling water, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and salt to taste ; keep stirring it well till the sauce boils for a minute or two, and then pour it over the steaks through a sieve. The steaks may be ganiished with a few sprigs of parsley, or with scraped horseradish; they are mostly served up with- out any other sauce than the above, but some families eat them with oyster sauce or mush- room sauce. Rush-Nut (the root of the cypru.i escu- lentus).—This is a favourite article of diet in some parts of Italy. It is not only a substi- tute for the fhoHtiiut, but more delicately and