( 843 ) SCO SCO • boiling water slightly salted, and let it boil quii kly until done enough. Take it up, drain it thoroughly, and serve very hot. Whilst the kale is boiling, the sjiucepan should be left uncovered. Time to boU, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. per pound. Scotch Oatmeal Brose.—Brose is a Scotch food made from oatmeal, and is perhaps the food most quickly cooked of any used by civilised men. The process is as follows :—Put a handful of oatmeal into a good-sized basin, add a large pinch of salt, pour about a pint of boiling water over it, stir with the handle of a spoon, when the meal will form little lumps. Do not break the lumps, but pour in half a pint of either sweet milk or buttermilk, and thfe cooking will be complete. Eat immediately after cooking. Some add a piece of butter, but the brose is more wholesome without it; indeed, all preparations of oatmeal are more wholesome without the addition of any fatty substance, the oatmeal having quite enough of the heat-producing element in itself. This is a common breakfast among Scotch ploughmen in some districts. It cannot be recommended to sedentary persons. Scotch Oatmeal Cakes. —For oaten cakes, take some meal, mix with it a little salt and melted suet and sufficient water to work it into a thick dough, roll out into a cake as thin as possible, divide into quarters, and spread out on the "girdle" (a flat circular piece of iron about eighteen inches in diameter, suspended over the fire), and bake each side in turn. The | cakes must then be toasted before the fire till ' they are curled and crisp. They must be crisp j and brittle to be palatable. Scotch Oatmeal Cakes (another way). —Oat-cake, or bannocks, should be made from meal as fine as can be got, and as newly ground as possible. The meal should be saturated ^vith lukewarm water, and as much salt as can be lifted between the finger and thumb for each cake; stir about well, and squeeze through , the fingers, adding dry meal until the mass is i of the consistency of dough (all this should be j done in a basin); then spread some dry meal , on the " bake-board," flatten the dough with the knuckles of both hands until nearly the size wanted; smooth and finish with a rolling- pin. Crimp with the thumb all round the edge, but do not cut it in any way. It is now ready for the girdle. Now for the "firing," which is of as much importance as the " baking." The fire must be clear, and free from smoke; as a precaution, throw some salt on. The girdle should be of malleable iron, and a quarter of an inch thick, with a bow handle. Heat till salt crackles on it, brush it clean, and put on the bannock. Give it an occasional turn while on its flat, so that it may be equally done. Take it off with the spurtle—an instrument made of thin flat iron, shaped like a hoart, with a handle—to see if well browned. If the bannocks are to be " scoudered" do them on the other side the same way; but they are much hotter to have the other side done br!foro the fire on the toaster, this will give them a beautiful curl, and make them nice and j crisp. Then you will have real Scotch oatmeal bannocks. Scotch Oatmeal Cakea (another way). —The following directions are given by one writer us the result of some experience and study :—1. Let the oatmeal be of mediiun size in the grain. If coarse oatmeal be used, the cakes will not bear kneading out to the proper thinness, but will break in pieces; if the finest be used, the cakes will be tough, not crisp, as- they ought to be. 2. Use cold water only in making the dough. If hot or lukewarm water be used, the cakes will also be tough, and quite wanting in the peculiar sweetness that cakes made with cold water have. The use of fine oatmeal and hot water certainly makes the work easier to the person making the cakesy and also produces a better-looking article, but just as surely makes the cakes much less- pleasant to eat. 3. Use no fat, nor carbonate of soda, nor anything but oatmeal, cold water,, and just as much salt as is used in the making of bread from flour. Fat and carbonate of soda both cause the cakes to be shorter; but both, especially the former, have a great tendency to produce heartburn and other un.- pleasant residts in the eater. Cakes properly- made do not require any such devices to make them very pleasant eating. 4. Knead up the dough as quickly as possible, and make no more dough at a time than is enough for one cake, which cut into three or four sections for convenience of handling. If the dough is made in a lump for a number of cakes, those that are baked last will not be so crisp and sweet as the first baked. The size of the cake will be detennined by the diameter of the hot-plate on girdle on which it is to be baked, but cakes of small diameter are more easily made by per- sons unaccustomed to the work. 5. Make the cakes thin—as little over an eighth of an inch as possible. If rolled out thicker than that they will not have the nice crispness that a good oat-cake always has. 6. Bake the ono side on the hot-plate over the fire just as much as will serve to stiffen the cake sufficiently ta bear its own weight when set on edge in the toaster before the fire. The more the baking is done before the fire the bettor. Lastly, do not eat them hot, and keep them until used in a perfectly dry and, if possible, rather warm place. Scotch Oatmeal Porridge.—Oatmeal porridge is made of oatmeal, water, and salf only; no sweet milk, buttermilk, nor butter being used in the preparation of the food, although all of these articles may be used as relishes with it. It is best made from meal of medium coarseness. The water must be boiling- when the meal is stirred in, and it must be stirred in carefully and gradually, and not thrown in all at once, and the stirring must be continued during the time of boiling, which should not be less than fifteen minutes, and is much better boiled longer. If longer boiled, the grain of the meal gets softer, and of course the porridge gets thicker. Porridge is more palatable when a plate or other flat dish is us.-d for It than when it is put into a bowl or basm. When a plate is used the moisture