C 860 ) SHE SHE of sheep's heart and liver may bo served in ^ihis way. Time to simmer the niiuce, about half an hour. Probable coat, Is. (id. Sufficient for thieo or four persons. Sheep's Tails.—Tluow the tails into boiling water fur tiftoon minutes. Drain thorn, and put thom into a stewpan with as much boiling stock as will cover them. Lot the stock boil, skim carefully, and put into it a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three onions, a pinch of mixed spice, and a Uttlo popper and salt. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the tails simmer gently for three or four hours. When done enough, drain and bono them, and press them between two dishes till cold. Let the gravy cool, remove the fat from the top, strain it, and boil it quickly till it is considerably reduced. Cut the ends off the tails, and simmer them in the reduced gravy till they are heated throughout. Dish them in a circle, and put into the centre sorrel, or onion, or lentil, or haricot, or pease puree {see Puree), or brown cucumber sauce, and send brown gravy or tomato sauce to table with them. French cooks, instead of stewing the tails in stock, would braize them with shces of bacon, and equal quantities of mirepoix {see Mirepoix) and veal stock. Time to stew the tails, four hours. Probable cost \mcertain, sheep's tails being seldom sold. Sufficient, three or four for a dish. Sheep's Tails and Kidneys.—Blanch, trim, and stew the tails, as before, in as much stock as will cover them, and stew with them a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. When the tails are don# enough, take them up, and place them in a circle on a hot dish; put in the centre an equal number of broiled kidneys, and serve in a tureen a sauce prepared as follows:—Strain the gravy in which the tails were stewed, thicken with flour and butter, boil it till it is thick enough to coat the spoon, and stir into it Ihe juice of half a lemon. Tune, three or four hours to stew the tails. Sheep's Ta.ils, Broiled.—Blanch, stew, press, and trim the tails as before. When qmte cold, brush them over with oil or beaten egg, and dip them in bread-crumbs. Let them lie a few minutes, then egg and bread-cnmab them again. Broil them over a clear fire, or fry them until they are brightly browned, dish them in a circle, and serve with ravigote or Valois sauce, or with a sauce made with the stock in which they were stewed, thickened with brown thickening, and fiavourcd with lemon-juice. Sheep's tails and sheep's tongues (an equal quantity of each) may be stewed and l)roiled together. The tongues will require to be skinned and split in halves. Time, four hours to stew the tails, a few minutes to broil them. Sheep's Tails with Pur6e of Green Peas.—Lay the tails in water to disgorge the blood; then blanch them, and braize them in an old braize ; otherwise they are to be sea- soned with carrots, onions, spices, &c. When done, drain and glaze them. Put the puree of gi-eon peas under them; do the same if you use puree of sorrel. Sheep's Tails with Rice.—Put three or lour sheep's tails into boiling water, and let them boil for a quarter of an hour. 1 ake thcin up, and lay them side by side in a stewjwn, with slices of bacon under and over them. Put with them a sliced onion, a scraped carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a Ijay-loaf, two cloves, and a dozen peppercorns; pour upon them as much stock as wiU barely cover them. Put the lid on the saucepan, and stow the tails very gently until done enough. Boil separately in nicely-flavoured stock a quarter of a pound of well-washed rice. Put half of this at the bottom of a dish, lay the tails upon it, and cover them with the other half. Strain the gravy, thicken with brown thickening, add a little s.it if required, and send it to table in a tureen. Time to simmer the tails, four hours. Sheep's Tongues (au Gratin).—Sheep's tongues may be bought at the tripe shop either fresh or partially boiled. If fresh, they will need to be soaked in salt and water for a couple of hours, and then boiled for two hours. If partially boiled, they will not require to be boUed more than half or three-quarters of an hour, or they may be eaten cold. Boil three or four tongues in as much stock as will co^er them, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a Httle salt and pepper. When the skin wiU peel off, take them up and skin them. Make as much good veal forcemeat as will cover the bottom of the dish on which the tongues are to be served, llix a little minced bacon with this, and moisten with the raw yolks of two eggs and a little of the hot liquor in which the tongues are boUed. Make it hot, spread it on a hot dish, drain oif any particles of fat that may float on the surface, and lay the sheep's tongues, boiled, skinned, and spUt in halves, on the forcemeat. Strain the gravy, pour a little of it over the tongues, and sex've the rest in a tmreen. Some- times the forcemeat is soaked in the Liquor and rubbed through a hair sieve, and the tongues are gently stewed in the sauce for half an hour, then served on a hot dish with the sauce over and round them. Time to boil the tongues, two hours. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sheep's Tongues (au Gratin). Another way.—Cut as many bits of bread in the shape of cock's-combs as you have tongues. Take some fine forcemeat. Erect a little dome in the centre of the dish, and dress the tongues in the said forcemeat, leaving, how- ever, room enough between to place one of the toasts; then put the dish into the oven. A^'hcn the forcemeat and tongues are done, take them out of the oven, and drain all the grease : tliey must be covered with bacon in order that they may not get dry (unless a mould may be pro- cured to close hermetically); then put the toasts, or croutons, fried of a fine brown colour, between each tongue, and the sauce with a thick essence. Mind that the tongues must l)e glazed and braized before with whatever sauto they were served.