( 643 ) POTJ POU sauce over the fixe for a quarter of an hour. Draw it away for a minute that it may cool slightly, and mix with it the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up with two table- spoonfuls of thick cream. Simmer the sauce again until it Logins to thicken, but it must not boil. Add to it a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a dozen mushroom buttons, and pour it into the tureen. Just before sending to table stir into it the little piece of butter which was reserved : then serve immediately. To prepare the mushrooms, re- move the stalks and peel them. Put them into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of lemon- juice and a table-spoonful of water. Shake them over the fire for a minute or two till they have absorbed the juice. Put an ounce of but- ter with them, and boil over a quick fire for five minutes. Turn them into a basin, cover them over, and they are ready for the sauce. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Suificient for six or seven persons. Poultry.—Under this head are included domestic birds which are reared for the table, and for their eggs, feathers, &c. The poultry of this country are the common domestic fowl, the turkey, the duck, and the goose ; to which some would add the guinea-fowl, and the peacock. In the following table, drawn up by Dr. Kitchiner, we have the particulai- seasons for various kinds of poultry and game :— Come into Season. rSpring . < Chickens, CApril . , Poutodswith|^ eggs . . .> I Dearest Poultry and Ga/ine. Chickens . Continue. Cheapest. To he had") through)- November, the year .) Till June . Decemher. Fowls Caiwns J in April, • I May, and ( June ^ Largest . < at Christ- Cmas Green Geese , Geese . . . Turkey Poults Turkeys . . Ducklings . . Ducks . . . To be had'^ through >November, the year .) C October Ditto. . . and No- C vemher. JTiUSeptem-|j5i^^^_ September{1^^/«^"r«- April . . Till June . September Till March March . . Till May . June . .(Till Febm- I ary March Wild Ducks September Till ditto Widgeons Teal Plovers Larks . Wheatears . . Wild Pigeons. Tame ditto . Tame Babbits Wild ditto. . Sucking Pigs Leverets . . 1 Lire's . . . Partridfjcs. . Pheasants . . Grouse . . . i'vrof>r Game . Woodcock Snipes ] Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. ] Ditto. 'December; but the flights are un- certain. November July . . Till March fAnd during I August Ditto. March. .{Tilljeptem-j^^^g^ Juno March , September Ditto October August All the year • { ary^'^'"^'^'} November. All the year ("Till Septem- ' C her — Till March. ■) Novenibe:-. For the month of January. — Capons, poulards, and fowls of all sizes; chickens, tur- keys, larks, snipes (golden plovers are the best). The well-known plovers' eggs are those of the black plover. Woodcocks, tame pigeons, and squab pigeons, wild ducks, widgeons, teal, dun- birds, pintails (commonly called sea-pheasants). Tame rabbits every month alike. Febbuaky.—AH kinds of poultry peculiar to January may be had in this month (wild fowl upon the decline), guinea-fowl, green geese, ducklings, &c. Makch.—Guinea-fowl, &c. &c. &c., same as the preceding months (the March flight of wild fowl is generally known). Turkey poults, turkeys, wild fowl (these mai/ be obtained, but are out of season). April.—Same as March, spring chickens (no -wild fowl). May, June.—Quails, pea-fowls, guinea-fowls, turkey poults, ducklings; geese are considered to be prime in these months; chickens to be had every month in the year. Plovers' eggs come in season the beginning of April, and continue till the 5th or 6th of June. Wild rabbits in this month. July. —The same as June, ruffs and reas. August.—Fine Essex ducks are good this month ; quails are good till game is in season. Other things the same as July. September. — Turkeys, game, ducks and geese, fowls and chickens, pigeons, rabbits, wild and tame. October.—Pheasants, &c. &c. &c., same as September. November.—All kinds of wildfowl; guinea- fowls come in this month, turkeys of all sizes. December.—Wild fowl cf every description; the largest turkeys and capons, and almost all other kinds of poultry, to be had in perfection this month. Fowls and chickens to be had every day in the year. Fowls which are fattened artificially are by some epicures preferred to those called barn- door fowls, whom we have heard say, that they should as soon think of ordering a iar»- doo7- for dinner as a barn-door fowl. The age of poultry makes all the difference —^nothing is tenderer than a young chicken; few things are tougher than an old cock or hen, which ia only fit to make broth. The meridian of perfection of poultry is just before they have come to their full growth, before they have begun to harden. Fowls must be kiUed a couple of days in moderate and more in cold weather before they are dressed, or they will eat tough; a good criterion of the ripeness of poultry for the spit is the ease with which you can then pull out the feathers: when a fowl is plucked leave a few to help you to ascertain this. "It is sometimes taken for granted by writers on this subject," says one author, " that aU the birds which can bo domesticated with advantage have already been domcstic^ttod. The assumption is quite gratuitous, and it might as well be asserted that improvement had reached its utmost in any other direction. The concurrent supposition that the common •lomestica-ted kinds were given to man at first as domestic is likewise unsupported by evidence,