WAL WAT ( 1099 ) about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the jcUy, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. WafiB-es.—Take a tea-cupful of fresh butter, put it into a large bowl, and beat it to cream. Add three cupfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, half a nutmeg grated, a few di-ops of essence ■of lemon, three well-beaten eggs, half a tea- «IJOonf ul of saleratus dissolved in a tea-spoonful of milk, and as much flour as will make a thick batter. Boat the mixture thoroughly. Heat the waffle-iron, rub it over with butter, and put into it one or two large spoonfuls of the mix- lure. Be careful to leave room for rising; ■close it, and put it over hot coals. Let it re- main for six or eight minutes, then turn it •over, and leave it a few minutes longer: if on •opening it the cake is nicely browned, and ■will leave the iron easily, it is done enough. Probable cost, Is. 6d. for this quantity. Waffles (another way).—Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a pint of milk; beat two eggs in a bowl, and add to them gradually the "buttered milk and as much flour as will make -a stiff batter. Stir in a wine-glassful of fresh yeast and a little salt. Let the batter rise till light. Heat the waffle-irons, and bake the waflles in the usual way. Butter them, and if liked serve with sugar and powdered cinnamon. "Waffles (another way).—Take a quart of •milk, five eggs, a pound and a quarter of flour, half a pound of butter, and a spoonful of yeast. When the waffles are baked, sift pounded sugar and powdered cassia over them. Waffles (a Danish recipe). — Take one pound of fresli butter, and beat it till it creams. Add the yolks of six eggs, a quarter of a pound ■of sugar, one poimd of flour, a quart of warm milk, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to snow. Butter the waffle-iron each time before fiUing it, and heat it befoi-e using. When baked strew sifted sugar over the waffles. This <[uantity will make twenty-four waffles. Waffles (a German recipe). — Mix one pound and a half of flour with the same quan- tity of clarified butter, add twelve eggs one by one, then a little gi-ated nutmeg, a few grains of salt, two handfuls of pounded almonds with a few bitter ones among them, four or five spoonfuls of yeast, nearly a pint of milk, and lastly the whites of the eggs beaten to snow. Mix and beat well together, then leave the mixture for two hours before proceeding further. Have ready tlie waffle-iron, heat it in the fire, and rub it over with butter; pour into it a ladlef ul of the batter, and bake of a fine yeUow. The iron must be buttered each time before any batter is poiu-ed in. Strew pounded sugar and ■cinnamon over the waffles aiter they are done. Waffles (another German recipe). — Mix together three-quarters of a pound of flour, seven eggs, a pint of milk, three good spoonfuls of yeast, a gill of brandy, and half a pound of butter beaten to cream. Beat the butter and <3gg:5 first together, then add the flour, and, ■whon smooth, the other ingredients ; let this stand in a warm ])lace for an hour to rise. Butter the waffle-iron before you pour in tlie batter, and bake of a light yellow colour. Strew with pounded cinnamon and sugar before serving. Waffles made with Yeast.—Beat three fresh eggs to a light froth; mix with them a pint of lukewarm milk and a large table-spoon- ful of fresh yeast, and add half a nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, an ounce of butter, and as much flour as will make a Kght batter. Put this in a warm place, and let it rise for_ two or thi-ee hours. Bake the cake in waffle-irons in the usual way {see Waffles). Waffles made without Yeast or Soda.—Take a pint and a quarter of flour, and as much additional flour as will go into a wine-glass; mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a pint of hot milk, and let the milk cool. Beat the yolks of thi-ee eggs in a bowl, and add to them the milk and the flour alternately. Whisk the whites of the eggs separately to a fii-m froth, and stir them lightly into the batter. Bake the waffles immediately after the whites are put in, and do not beat the batter after the whites are added. Waffles, Rice.—Boil half a pint of rice tiU soft; put it into a bowl, and add very gi'adually three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pint and a quarter of milk, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the batter, and beat it again. Take a small quantity of this mixture in a cup, and pour it backwards and forwards from a good height for a few minutes; then bake immediately. Waffles, Rice (a German recipe).—Wash half a pound of rice in warm water, drain it, and boil in milk till it swells and becomes a thick mass. Take the rice off the fire then, and keep stii-ring it, adding by degrees one pound of flour, five eggs beaten up, two spoonfuls of yeast, half a pound of melted butter, a little salt, and a cupful of warm milk. Set it in a warm place to rise, and bake quickly in the usual way. Wales', Prince of. Sauce for Salads and Broiled Pish.—Take a small handful of bumet, chervil, chives, and tan-agon leaves, throw them into boiling water, and boil them for a few minutes; then put them into the corner of a napkin, and press the moisture thoroughly from them. Put the pulp into a mortar with two anchovies filleted, two hard- boiled yolks of eggs, a dessert - spoonful of capers, a dessert-spoonful of unmixed mustard, and the yolk of a raw egg. Pound these in- gredients to a smooth paste, then add (first by drops, and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls) a quarter of a pint of lucca oil, beating the sauce well between every addition. Add last of all and very gradually about two table- spoonfuls of tan-agon vinegar; rub the sauce through a hair sieve to make it smooth, and it will be ready for serving. Time, about tliree- quarters of an hour to prepare the sauce. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons.