APPENDIX A.—KITCHEN UTENSILS. Oi^ the subject of culinary utensils we may reproduce the following remarks of Mt^. Eliet:—" The various utensils used for the preparation and keeping of food are made either of metal, glass, pottery-ware, or wood, each of which is better suited for some particular purpose than the others; Metallic utensils are quite unfit for many uses, ahd the knowledge of this is necessslry to the preservation of health in general^ and sometimes to the prevention of immediate dangerous consequences. " The metals commonly used in the construction of these vessels are silver^ copper, brass, tin, iron, and lead. Silver is preferable to all others because it cannot be dissolved by any of the substances used as food. Brimstone unites with silver, and forms a brittle crust over it, that gives it the appearance of being tarnished. The discolouring of silver spoons used with eggs arises from the brimstone contained in eggs. Nitre or saltpetre has also a slight efiect upon silver, but nitre and silver seldom tetaaiii long enough together in domestic uses to require any particular caution. " Cojiper and bl-ass are both liable to be dissolved by vinegar, acid fruits, and pearlash. Such solutions are highly poisonous, and great precautions should be used to prevent accidents. Vessels inade of these metals are generally tinned, that is, linisd with a thin coating of a mixed metal containing both tin and lead. Neither acids nor anything containing pearlash should ever remain above an hoUr in vessels of this kind, as the tin is dissolvable by acids, and the coating is seldom pierfect over thfe surface of copper or brass. " The utensils made of what is called 1)lock-tin are constructed of iron plates coated with tin. This is as liable to be dissolved as the tinning of copper or brass vessels, but iron is not an unwholesome substance if even a portion of it should be dissolved arid mixed in the food. Iron is therefore one of the safest metals for the construction of culinary utensils, and the objection to its hiore extensive use only rests upon its liability to rust, so that it requires more cleaning, and soon decays. Some ^rtibles of food, such as quinces, orange-peel, artichokes, &c., are blackened by remaining in ii'on vessels, which must not therefore be used for them. " Leaden vessels are very unwholesome, and should never be used for milk and cream if it be ever likely to stand till it becomes sour. They are unsafe also for the purpose of keeping salted meats. " Tlie best kind of pottery-ware is oriental china, because the glazing is a perfect glass which cannot be dissolved, and the whole substance is so compact that liquid cahnot penetrate it. Many of our own pottery-wares are badly glazed, and as the glazing is made principally of lead, it is necessary to avoid putting vinegar and other acids into them. Acids and greasy substances penetrate into uUglazed warfes— excepting the strong stoneware—or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence give a bad flavour to anything they are used for afterwards. They are quite imfit, therefore, fdr keeping pickles or salted ineats. Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery-ware but oriental china, and shoidd be used whenever the occasion admits of it. " Wooden vessels are very proper for keeping many articles of food, and should always be preferred to those lined with lead. If any substance has fermented or become putrid in a wooden cask or tub, it is sure to taint the vessel so as to produce a similar effect upon anything that may be put into it in future. It is useful to