( 1091 ) VIC of an hour. Probdble cost, 6d. Sufficient for . foui or live persons. Victoria Soup (said to be a favourite with the Queen).—^\Vash half a pound of best Carolina rice. Throw it into boiling water, and boil it quickly for ten minutes. Drain it, put it in a stewpan, and pour upon it three pints of good nicely-flavouri d white stock. Let it simmer gently tiU quite tender. Put aside two heaped table-spoonfuls of the rice; rub the rest through a sieve, and stir the pulp into the stock. Let it boil, and pour it upon the whole rice. Season with salt and pepper if required, and stir into it half a pint of boiling cream or milk. Serve immediately. If liked, pearl barlej' may be used instead of rice. It must, of course, be partially boiled in water to remove the impurities before it is put into the stock. Time to boil the rice, about an hour and a half. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Vienna Cake (a German recipe).—Make four or five white paper plates by stretching the paper over any round utensil—a large dinner or soup-plate will do—plait up an edge an inch deep, and tack it round with needle and thread to keep it upright. Butter these papers, and lay them on baking-tins. Spread over each a layer of " sand tourte" mixture not thicker than a thin pancake. The sand tourte mixture is made thus:—Stir half a poimd of butter to a cream* then add the yolks of twelve eggs and half a lemon-peel grated. Add by degrees half a pound of sifted sugar, quarter of a pound of fine flour, and the same of potato flour. When these ingredients are well mixed, add the egg-whites whipped to a snow. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven a nice yellow; do not let them tinge brown. "When cold cut away the paper roimd, turn the cakes over, and peel off the bottom paper without breaking them. Lay one cake over the other, with different coloured preserves and marmalades between, till all are piled up. Dissolve powdered sugar with g, little lemon-juice, spread it thickly over the top and sides of the cake to make a glazing. Put it into a cool oven to dry, and when cold ornament the top with preserved fruit or marmalade. Vienna Yeast.—The good qualities of Vienna beer and bread are celebrated all over Germany, and are due to the excellence of the yeast used in preparing them. According to Dr. Vogel, the formula for preparing this sub- stance is as foUows :—Previously malted barley, maize and rj'e, are ground up, and mixed; next put into water at a temperature of 150 deg. to 170 deg. Fahr.; after a few hours the saccharine liquid is decanted from the dregs, and the clear liquid brought into a state of fermentation by the aid of some yeast. The fermentation becomes very strong, and, by the force of the carbonic acid which is evolved, the yeast globules are carried to the surface of the liquid, and there form a thick sciun, which is to be removed by a skimmer, placed on cloth filters, drained, washed with a little distilled water, and next pressed into any desired shape by means of hydraulic pressure, and covered with a strong and stoutly-woven canvas. This kind of yeast keeps from eight to foui-teen days, according to the season, and is, both for bakers and brewers, very superior to that ordinarily used. Viennese Biscuits for Dessert.— Beat five eggs for fully a quai-ter of an hour with haU a pound of powdered white sugar. Add gradually half a pound of flour, and beat the mixture again till it is light and smooth. Have ready some baking-sheets buttered and floured for the purpose. Put the batter into a biscuit-forcer, and gently press it out upon the baking-sheets in shapes broad at the ends and narrow in the middle. Dredge powdered white sugar on the surface, and bake the bis- cuits in a brisk oven. When they are lightly browned they are done enough. Time to bake the biscuits, about eight minutes. Probable cost. Is. for this quantity. Vinaigrette of Cold Meat.—Take any kind of cold dressed meat, cut it into neat slices, and put it upon a dish with cold pota- toes cut into slices, hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and slices of beetroot. Season rather highly with pepper and salt, pour upon it oil and vinegar, in the proportion of three table- spoonfuls of oil to two of vinegar, and toss it lightly together with a fork. Sliced cucumber, chopped parsley, and finely-minced onion may be added if liked, and a few drops of tarragon or chilli vinegar may be mixed with the ordinary \'inegar. Sometimes the various in- gredients are sent to table prettily arranged in rings round a dish, with the colours contrasting, and they are mixed with the salad dressing at the moment of serving. A vinaigrette of cold boiled beef is excellent. Vinaigrette, Sauce a la.—Thisisasauco much used in Paris for cold viands. Sauce a la vinaigrette is composed of salad oil, vinegar, finely-chopped parsley, and shallots, onions, or chives, with pepper and salt to taste. For those who have no objection to oil this sauce is infinitely superior to mere vinegar, pepper, and salt. It is suitable for every kind of cold meat, and especially for cold calf's head ; and is ad- mirable with cold salmon, turbot, or indeed any sort of cold fish. Hard-boiled eggs also eat extremely well with sauce a la vinaigrette; so do many kinds of cold vegetables, and es- pecially asparagus; in fact, this is quite aa often eaten cold as hot in Paris, and always a la vinaigrette. Cold artichokes are also very largely consumed with this sauce. When used with cold meat, and particularly with calf's head, the addition of a few capers to the sauce is a great improvement; and with cold roast meat a gherkin cut up fine is excellent As this is a sauce produced almost entirely out of the cruet-stand, its suits well with our English habits. _ You rub up the salt and pepper with a Mtle vmegar, then add as much oil as you please, with chopped parsley, shallot, gherkins, or capers, according to convenience or taste. Vine Leaves, Wine from.—Gather the leaves when young, weigh them, wash them, and drain them. As the stems are fuU of flavour, they must on no account be picked