TOM ( 983 ) TOM reduced to rather less than half a pint. Put in with it a table-spoonful of chopped onion, three table-spoonfuls of finely-slu-ed parsley, and a little pepper and salt, and boil it quickly for ten minutes. Take eight or ten large ripe tomatoes. Slice off the stalks and the part that adheres to them, and make a round hole in the top the size of a shilling. Scoop out the seeds thi'ough this, and fiU their place with the prepared sauce. Set them carefully in a baking-tin, the stalk end uppermost, with two oimces of butter, and sprinkle bread-crumbs lightly over them. Put them in a brisk oven, and bake them for ten minutes. Serve very hot. Time to make the stuffing, about one hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Tomatoes, Australian Meat and {see Australian Meat, &c.). Tomatoes, Baked.—Slice the stalks from six or eight ripe tomatoes with the green part that adheres to them. Season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly over them. Divide about two ounces of fresh butter into little pieces, and place these here and there upon them. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve on a hot dish as an accompaniment to roast moat of all kinds. If liked, the toma- toes may be cut into slices, or into halves, in- stead of being baked whole, and they will not then require so much time for baking. Time to bake, from twenty to thirty minutes—till they are quite soft without breaking. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, toma- toes, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Tomatoes, Baked (another way).—Take five or six largo ripe tomatoes, plimge them for one minute into boiling water, take them out, remove the thin skin, divide them in halves, and squeeze out the seeds. Mix a salt- spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg, into two ounces of fresh butter. Arrange the tomatoes in a single layer on a baking-dish, the cut side uppermost; put an equal portion of the seasoned butter on each, and bake in a brisk oven. When done enough pour the juice of a lemon over them, lay them upon hot buttered toast, and pour over them the gravy which is in the dish with them. Serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Tomatoes for Garnish {see Garnish, Tomatoes for). Tomatoes, Fowl Braised with {see Fowl Braised with Tomatoes). Tomatoes, Pickled.—This pickle is very good with roast meat, cold or hot. Take two dozen small ripe tomatoes ; prick each one in two or three places, carefully preserve the juice that flows from them, and keep it in a covered vessel until wanted. Put the tomatoes in layers in a deep earthen jar, and sprinkle a little salt between each layer. Cover the pan, and let the tomatoes remain undisturbed for three days. At the end of that time wash them well from the brine and dry them care- fully. Put them into jars, and cover tliem with vinegar which has been boiled and allowed to get cold. Add the juice which flowed from the fruit in the first instance, and cover the jars closely. The pickle will be ready for use in about a fortnight. The following spices should be boiled with the vinegar for this quantity of tomatoes:—Half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and a heaped table-spoonful of mustard-seed. Sometimes minced onions or minced celery, or both, are put into the jars with the tomatoes. Time, four days. Tomatoes Preserved.—Cut the toma- toes into pieces, and simmer them gently over j a slow fire till they are reduced to a pulp. ! Squeeze the juice from this pulp, boil it until I it is as thick as cream, and then pour it into '. small bottles. Place these in a large boiler j with cold water up to their necks. Bring the I water to the boil, and let it boil for a quarter of j an hour, then lift the bottles from the fire, and i let them remain in the water till it is cold. Cork securely, and wax the corks. Store in a I cool, diy place. Time to boil, a quarter of an I hour. ! Tomatoes, Roast.—Take six or eight small ripe tomatoes. Slice off the stalks and the parts that adhere to them. Put them in a Dutch oven, place them before the fire, and roast them until done enough. Serve on a hot dish as an accompaniment to roast meat. If it is more convenient they may be placed at the edge of the dripping-tin I instead of in the Dutch oven, but care must I be taken that the fat from the joint does not I fall upon them. Time to roast, twelve to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomatoes, Stewed.—Take six or eight ripe red tomatoes. Eemove the stalks, sHce the fruit, and put the slices into a lined sauce- pan. Season with pepper and salt, and place about two ounces of butter divided into little pieces here and there amongst them. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the tomatoes gently until they are quite tender. Stir them ! two or three times, and serve on a hot dish as j an accompaniment to roast meat. A spoon- j ful or two of vinegar will be an improvement, j Time to stew the tomatoes, about twenty i minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. I per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomatoes, Stewed (Portuguese way). —Slice half a dozen ripe tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and put little pieces of butter here and there upon them. Mince two onions finely, sprinkle them over the tomatoes, cover the saucepan closely, and steam tliem for a quarter of an hour. Afterwards pour a quarter of a pint of good brown gravy over them, stir frequently, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Have ready a quarter of a pound of freshly-boiled rice. Stir this in with the tomatoes, and mix the ingredients thoroughly. Turn the whole upon a hot dish, and send a little more brown sauce to table in a tureen. Time, about one hour to stew the tomatoes. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons.