SHO ( 866 ) SHI generally agrees better with persons of weak digestion. To bo good it should be free from acid, or nearly so. Shikaree Sauce, for Ducks and Wild Fowl.—Mix a tea-spooiiful of cuyemio with a table-spoouful of powdered white sugar. I'ut the mixture into a small saucepan, and pour over it two glassfuls of iimshroom ketchup, two glassfuls of claret, and the strained juice of a large fresh lemon. Stir the liquor over the fire till the sugar is dissolved and it is quite hot. Serve immediately. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Short Bread {see Bread, Short). Short Bread, Scotch.—No. l. Mix two pounds of flour with four ounces of moist sugar, two ounces of candied citron, chopped small, and two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and sliced. Eub one pound of butter into the flom-, melt another half pound of butter, and with this work up the flour to a smooth paste. If a plainer cake is wanted, less butter may be used. Sometimes the whole of the butter is melted, and then the bread is more easily made. RoU out the pastry to the thickness of an inch, and in a large oval shape, pinch the edges evenly, prick the surface with a fork or skewer, and sprinkle large comfits over the top. Cut the oval across, thus making two cakes, and place these on paper rubbed with flour, and then upon tins. Bake in a moderate oven. When the bread is lightly browned, it is done enough. It should be remembered that the less the bread is kneaded the shorter it will be. No. 2: Eub three-quarters of a pound of fresh imsalted butter into half a pound of flour ; add a quarter of a pound of ground rice, four table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, two ounces of candied citron, finely minced, and an ounce of sweet almonds, blanched and chopped small. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, work the whole into a smooth paste with the yolks of two small eggs. EoU the pastry out to the thickness of half an inch, divide it into four squares, pinch the edges neatly, prick the sur- face with a " dabber" or fork, sprinkle comfits and sliced citron on the top, and bake as above. Time to bake the bread, half to three-quarters of an hour. Short-bread, Scotch (another way).— Put two pounds of butter in some warm place overnight whore it will gradually become soft without at the same time melting. Take two quarterns of flour, and mix with it haK a pound of loaf sugar in powder, and lemon-peel and blanched sweet almonds (in quantities accord- ing to taste) cut very fine; add all these to the butter, and knead the whole till it appears like dough; then add a table-spoonful or two of yeast; again knead it, and roll out into cakes of the proper size and thickness. Ornament the edges with candiod-lemon and comfits, having previously pricked the cakes with a fork. Short Cakes. — Ordinary short cakes are simply made of pastry, sweetened with sugar, rolled out to the thickness of three- quarters of an inch, cut into pieces of any con- veniont size, baked, and served hot. These are frecjuently nutdo in economical households of pastry that is left after making pies and tarts. Superior short cak(is may be made as follows No. 1. Rub half a pound of fresh butter into a pound of fiour; add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a beaten egg, and as much milk as will make a smooth paste. Roll out the pastry to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake these on tins till crisp and lightly coloui-ed. No. 2. Put a pint of flom- into a basin, and scoop a hollow place out of the centre. Dissolve a little more than half a tea-spoonful of soda in a tea-spoonful of boihng water. Stir this into half a pint of thick sour milk, and beat it well with a pinch of salt and three ounces of creamed butter. Pour this mixture into the hollow, and stir it with the flour to form a smooth paste. Eoll it out on a floured board to the thickness of the third of an inch, stamp into fancy shapes, and bake these on tins in a brisk oven. No. 3. Eub six ounces of fresh butter into a pound of ground rice; add a pinch of salt and as much cold water as will make a smooth paste. RoU this out, stamp it into cakes, and bake in a brisk oven. No. 4. Dis- solve half a pound of fresh butter in a pint of milk. Stir in as much flour as wHl make a smooth, light paste. Roll this out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, cut it into large round cakes, and bake these in a frjang- pan over a clear fire. Serve hot. A pinch of salt should be mixed with the flour. Time, ten minutes to bake the small cakes. Short Crust, a Substitute for Puff Paste.—When puff paste cannot be had, pastry made according to any of the following recipes may be used instead. It should be made in a cool place and should be handled very lightly. A moderately-heated oven will be required for baking it. No. 1. Rub three ounces of fresh butter into a pound of flour till it is as fine as possible; add a pinch of salt and two table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, and make a smooth paste with two eggs beaten up with milk or cream. RoU out thin. No. 2. Rub three ounces of butter into a pound of flour; add a pinch of salt and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and beat the whole to a smooth paste with a quarter of a pint of boiling cream. No. 3. Rub eight ounces of butter into a pound of flour, and add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and £i8 much milk as will make a firm smooth paste. If a richer crust is required, ten ounces of butter may be used. {See also Paste, Short). Shprt Paste Cake.—Put a pound of fine flour into a basin; scoop out a hollow in the centre of it, and put into this ten ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water. Work all together with the fingers, and when necessary add another quarter of a pint of water. To make a smooth, firm paste, gather this together into a hunp, and leave it in a cool place for a couple of hours. Eoll it out to an oblong shape, an inch and a quarter thick