( 1132 ) WIN cask. For the above quantity some will put in u qvuirt of brandy alone ; others first mix it with honey. Whether the wine should bo racked off from the ley at the end of six months, put into a fresh cask for si.x months longer bofore it is bottled, or be sull:ered to remain the whole time in the lees, nmst dej)end upon the state of the wine. The bottling should be carefully attended to. Wine Custard..—Kub off the zest of a lemon on six ounces of sugar; boat eighteen eggs to froth with half a spoonful of flour- potato flour, if it is at hand—a quart of wine, and a cupful of orange-flower water. Set the mixture on the fire, and keep stirring it till it froths. Pour the custard into cups or bowls, and serve with macaroons. Wine Custard Sauce.—Take the yolks of eight eggs, beat them up till thick, mix with them sugar to taste, the juice of two lemons, half a pint of white wine, and a little more than half that quantity of water. Set it on the fire, beat with a whisk till it froths: whenever the sauce boils, take it off. This sauce is to be eaten with puddings and tarts. Wine, Damson.—Boil ten gallons and a half of pure river water with thirty-two pounds of strong moist sugar and the whites of ten eggs well beaten half an hour, skimming it well; then add thirty-two quarts of ripe prune damsons well picked from the stalks and stoned, and boil them half an hour longer, skimming and stirring until the liquor is beautifully bright. Strain it off the fruit in a fine hair sieve into your cooler, and when at the proper temperature work it with fresh yeast, spread on a toast, three or four days. Then draw it off the sediment, put it into the cask, filter the lees, and fill up, letting it work out at the bung. When it has ceased hissing put to it a quart of French brandy, and stop it up safely, pasting paper over the bung. Let it stand six months, then rack it off, filter the lees through flanriel twice folded, and filling the cask again, add an ounce of isinglass dissolved and mixed with two quarts of the wine. Secure the bung well, and let it remain two years; then draw it oft' and bottle, sealing the corks. This being a rich wine, requires age, and should not be drunk until it has been bottled two years or more. Wine, Damson (another way).—Gather the damsons when dry, stone them, and mash them with your hand. Put them into a vessel with a fauset, and to eight pounds of fruit add one gallon of water. Boil the water, and put it to the fruit scalding hot. Let it stand about two days, then draw it off; and to every gallon of liquor put three pounds of fine sugar. Let the barrel be full, and stop it close. If it is A large quantity, let it stand twelve months before you drink it. Wine Decanters, Cleaning of.—Use a little pearlash or soda, and some cinders and water. Rinse the decanters well out with clean water. Wine, Elderberry.—The elderberry is well suited to the production of wine. The \<^'u:q contains a considerable quantity of the principle necessary for a vigorous fermentatixjn, and its beautiful colour imparts a rich tint to the wine made from it. It isi however, deficient in sweetness, and sugar must be added to it. The following is an approved recipe :—Take one gallon of ri]>e eldorbenies and one quart of damsons or sloes for every two galluns of wine to be made. Boil the elderberries in al^out half the quantity of water till they burst, breaking them frequently with a stick. Strain the liquor, and return it to the copper. To produce eighteen gallons of wine, twenty gallons of this liquor are required, and for whatever quan- tity the liquor falls short of this, water must be added to make it up. Boil this along with fifty-six pounds of coarse moist sugar for half an hour, and it is to bo fermented in the usual manner when sufficiently cooled, and then it is to be tunned or put into the cask. Put now into a muslin bag a pound and a half of ginger bruised, a pound of allspice, two ounces of cinnamon, and four or six ounces of hops; suspend the bag with the spice in the cask by a string not long enough to let it touch the bottom; let the liquor work in the cask for a fortnight, and fill up in the usual way. The wine will be fit to tap in two months, and is not improved by keeping hke many other wines. Elderberries alone may be used. Wine, Elderberry (another way).—Take ten gallons of elderberries, ten gallons of water, forty-five pounds of white sugar, eight ounces of red tartar, and ferment with yeast in the usual way. When in the cask, ginger root sliced or allspice, four ounces, bitter almonds, three ounces, suspended to a bag may -be allowed to infuse in the liquor while it is fer- menting ; they are then to be removed. Brandy may be added or not. AVhen the wine is clear, which will be in about three months, it may be drawn off from the lees and bottled. The spices may be varied according to taste. Wine from the Leaves and Stalks of the Grape.—The following is Dr. Jlaccul- loch's recipe for making this wine:—"The young leaves may be taken at any period from vines which have been cultivated for this pur- pose, and from which no fruit is expected. In other cases they may be obtained from the summer pruning. The tendrils and green shoots are equally useful. The claret ^-ine may be cultivated for this purpose, in which case the wine wiU have a red colour. The leaves are best when young, and should not hf^ve at- tained more than half their growi-h; they should be plucked with their stems. In the neighbourhood of London they require to be carefully washed to remove the taste of soot which so often adheres to them: sometimes that is insufficient. From sixty to eighty pounds of such leaves being introduced into a tub of sufficient capacity, seven or eight gal- lons of boiling water are to be poured on them, in which they are to infuse for twenty-four hours. The liquid being poured off, the leaves must bo pressed in a press of considerable power; and being subsequently washed with an additional gallon of water, they are a^n submitted to the action of the press. The sugar, varj-ing from twenty-five to thirty