PEP PEP ( 633 ) waa levied in pepper, and it was often used as a medium of exchange. When Kome was besieged by Alaric, in the beginning of the fifth century, he demanded as a ransom, besides gold and silver, 3,000 pounds of pepper. Dealers in spices were of old called pepperers, and in the twelfth century they formed a fraternity which afterwai-ds merged into the Grocers' Company. " Pepper is very generally employed as a condiment, and from its promoting the secre- tion of the gastric juice, it aids the digestive powers of the stomach, sometimes rendered necessary in our artificial mode of living ; but, even in small quantities, it is hurtful in inflammatory habits." Pepper, Black.—This is the most im- portant sort of pepper. It is the dried ripe berry of a cUmbiag plant that has been culti- vated in India for ages. In the state in which we receive the berries they are black and wrinkled. They are then ground into the coarse grey powder known at table as black pepper. From Pereira we learn that there are three kinds of Hack pepper^ distinguished by wholesale dealers. These are " Malabar Pepper —this is the most valuable ; it is brownish black, free from stalks, and nearly free from dust. Penang pepper—this is brownish black, larger, smoother, free from stalks, but very dusty. It is sometimes used in England to manufacture white pepper. Sumatra pepper—this is the cheapest sort. It is black mixed with stalks, and contains much dust. Under the name of Sumatra pepper, some dealers include the Penang or brownish black sort, and the black Sumatra sort." Pepper, Butter Seasoned with {see Butter Seasoned with Pepper). Pepper, Cayenne, is a compound article, the chief ingredient of which is the epidermis and pulp of the common capsicum, a plant much cultivated in most tropical cUmates. The best cayenne pepper is manufactured in the West Indies. " The berries, which are often larger than an egg, although other varieties are scarcely larger than a clove, are opened, and the seeds are taken out: the scarlet epidermis and pulp are then weU beaten up with flour and salt into a paste, which is afterwards baked imtil quite hard, and then ground into a coarse powder, which is put into weU-corked bottles for use. Other methods are used, but this is the mode of preparing the much-prized West India cayenne pepper." Cayenne pepper has become a necessary article at table, and is highly esteemed for its flavour and the quality it is supposed to possess of aiding the diges- tion of fish and other kinds of food. One may reasonably question whether indulgence in this powerful spice is conducive to health, for though cayenne pepper, like highly-flavoured Indian soys, may occasionally assist digestion, it would perhaps be better for persons of weak digestion to abstain from food requiring a vigorous stomach, than to employ artificial stimulants. The capsicum from which cayenne popper is mostly obtained is a native of the East and West Indie^ where it grows readily with very little care. " There are," says Dr. Yeats, " numerous species of capsicimi, named after the form and colour of the pod, which varies considerably. All are, however, included tmder the Mexican name of chillies. In tropical coun- tries cnillies are used in great quantities, the con- sumption as a condiment being almost universal, and nearly equal to that of salt. In India they are the principal ingredients in all curries, and form the only seasoning which the millions of the poor of that country can obtain to eat with theii' insipid rice. Capsicums or chillies are imported into this country in the form of red and brown pods, which are broken, dried, and packed in bales, weighing 2^ cwt., principally for making pepper." Pepper Gherkins.—Choose the gher- kins of uniform size, and not more than two inches long. Cover with salt, and leave them until the next day, then wipe each one singly with a cloth, and put them into jars, cover with boiling vinegar, and allow a dozen bay-leaves, a sprig of tarragon, a quarter of an ounce of black peppercorns, an ounce and a quarter of salt, two small blades of mace, and two shallots, to each quart of vinegar. Cover the jars, and leave them for three days; then drain off the vinegar, boil it up, let it get quite cold, pour it once more over the gherkins, and tie the jars securely down with bladder. Store in a cool dry place. Probable cost, uncertain. Pepper, XiOng, is the product of a plant found in the Circar mountains, where it is gathered in its wild state. It is imported into England from Bengal, but in inconsiderable quantities, as the qualities of long pepper are analogous to those of white pepper. It is a favourite in some culinary operations, particu- larly in making pickles. Pepper, Neilgherry.—The Neilgherry pepper, so much prized by East Indian gourmets, is prepared from the berries of a yellow variety of the pepper-plant, cultivated for the purpose on the Neilgherry Hills. It is flavoured with cumin and other aromatic seeds. Pepper Pot (a hotch-potch).—Put four quarts of boiling water inta a large stewpan, with a mixture of any meats that may be pre- ferred—either three pounds of gravy beef and haK a pound of lean ham, or three pounds of the neck of mutton and half a pound of pickled pork; add half a cupful of best rice, a bunch of savoury herbs, two large onions, and three large potatoes coarsely grated. Skim the liquid carefully during the first half hour, and let it simmer gently until all the goodness is drawn out of the meat. This will require from three to four hours. Strain the soup and let it stand until cold, so that the fat may be entirely removed. Put the liquid into the stewpan, with a large fowl cut into joints, and the meat of a lobster or crab finely minced. When the fowl is almost tender, put in a dozen small light suet dumplings, and a pint and a half of whatever vegetables are in season cut up into small pieces. In summer these will consist of peas, cauliflowers, French beans, lettuces, or spinach, and in Avinter of carrots, turnips, or celery. Season with cayenne and salt, if required. When the vegetables are done enough serve the entile preparation in a tureen. In the