SAG ( 790 ) SAI biacuit-powder, four ounces of augar, the pool of a lonioii griitod, and six or eight eggs beat up. Butter a mould, pour this preparation in, and bake or boil. Send to tal)lo with a wine or raspberry saueo poured over the pudding. Sago Pudding, Baked.—Wash three table-spoonfuls of sago, and soak it for an hour in half a pint of cold water. Meantime put a pint and a half of milk into a saucepan with a little lemon-rind, an inch of stick cinnamon, or an ounce of blanched and pounded almonds, and let it simmer gently till it is pleasantly flavoured. 8train and sweeten; mix with it the soaked sago drained from the water, and simmer gently, stirring frequently till the preparation is thick. Let it cool, then add two well-beaten eggs and a slice of fresh butter, and beat it again for a few minutes. Pour it into a but- tered pie-dish, and bake until the surface is brightly browned. Serve with ■svine sauce. If a superior pudding is required, four eggs may be used instead of two, and the dish may be lined with puff paste before the sago is poured into it. Time to bake the pudding, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sago Pudding, Boiled.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with the thin rind of half a lemon, and let it simmer gently until it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, mix with it three table-spoonfuls of well-washed sago and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and then boil the mixture, stirring gently till it is thick and smooth. Let it cool, then add two well-beaten eggs. Turn it into a weU-buttered basin which it will quite fill, lay a buttered paper on the top, and tie a floured cloth securely over it. Plunge it into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and keep it boiling till done enough. Move it about occasionally for the first quarter of an hour. Let it stand in the basin a few minutes, then turn it out carefully, and garnish with jelly, or send wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sago Pudding Boiled (superior).—Soak an ounce and a half of sago for an hour. Strain it, and boil it in a pint of milk till it is clear, and to flavour it add an ounce of blanched and poimded almonds, the thin rind of a lemon, or an inch of stick cinnamon. Pour the sago out, remove the flavouring ingredients, and stir till cool. Beat it up with two sponge biscuits crushed to powder, the well-whisked yolks of :five and the whites of two eggs a little sugar, and a glassful of sherry or madeira. Boil the pudding as in the last recipe. Let it stand three or four minutes, turn it out carefully, and serve with wine sauce or with half a pint of any fresh fruit boiled with sugar and water to a rich syrup, and strained over the pudding. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, Is., ex- clusive of the wine and sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sago Pudding, Red.—Boil in milk two ounces of sago. When it is quite thick, beat into it six eggs, leaving nut three of the whites: add half a pint of cream and two sjjoonfuls of sherry, with nutmeg and sugar according to tusto. Put paste round the dish. w®^^°.^^^°® BoUed Puddings.- Wish a table-spoonful of large sago, and foil it in the third of a pint of water for ten minuU^s. Sweeten it, flavour with a little grated lemon- rind or pounded cinnamon, add the strained juico of a small lemon and a glassful of sherry or madeira, let it boil up once, and serve Time twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient lor SIX or eight persons. Sago Soup.—Wash six ounces of sago, and add it gradually to two quarts of nicely- flavoured stock. Let it simmer gently till the sago is quite clear, and put in further seasoning if necessary. Before serving the soup mix with it either the strained juice of a lemon and a glass of light wine, or the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little cream. Serve very hot. Sago Soup, Red (a Danish recipe).—Boil the sago as in the recipe Sago Soup, White. Instead, however, of beating up eggs and wine in the tureen, put into it preserved raspberries, currants, or cherries. In summer, ripe fruit may be used, which must be boiled with the sago. Add sugar to taste. Sago Soup, Restorative. — Boil two oimces of sago in a pint of mutton, veal, or chicken broth till clear. Serve hot or cold. Sago Soup, White (a Danish recipe).— Take half a pound of pearl sago, and wash it well in cold water; put it into four pints of boiling water along with the rind of a lemon. If liked, four ounces of raisins may afterwards be added. Beat up in the tureen the yolks of four eggs, add white or very pale brown sugar to taste, the juice of two or three lemons, and half a pint of white wine. Pour the soup slowly over this mixture, beating the eggs and wine vigorously all the while. The sago should boil for haK an hour. Sago with Wine Sauce (a German recipe).—Take a quarter of a poimd of sago, and boil it in a pint of water with the peel of a lemon till it is quite boiled out; add a little white wine, sugar, and cinnamon. Stir the preparation till it becomes thin, then let it boil a little longer, and remove the peel and cinna- mon. Pour the sago out to cool in a deep plate; when cold cut it into shapes, and place it in the dish in which it is to appear at table. Pour over it a sauce composed of wine, sugar, cirma- mon, and grated lemon-peel. If preferred, the juice of fruit may be used instead of wine. Sailor's Soup.—Clean a small pike, a tench, a carp, and a middling-sized eel; cut them into small lengths, thi-ow over them a little sea-water to cleanse, and salt them at the same time; an hour after wash and drain thorn on a napkin; then lay each fish separately in a saute-pan containing two onions, two oar- rots, and a pottle of mushrooms sliced, some jjarsley-roots, bay-leaf, basil, thyme, two cloves, a clove of nutmeg, a pinch of piijiper and grated nutmeg, half a pint of Chablis wino, and a ladhiful of oonsommo; lot them simmer for ten minutes, take out tlio lurp, and ten minulo:i