( 1089 ) VIC to keep it from getting into lumps. "WTien tender, serve in a tureen. Grated Parmesan cheese served on a separate dish is a great improvement to this soup. It may of course bo dispensed with. Time to boil the vermicelli, twelve to twenty minutes, according to quality. It must not be overcooked, or it will be spoilt. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Vermicelli Soup, White.—Take two or thi-ee pmts of white stock seasoned with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and flavoured with a turnip, a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of parsley. Put the crumb of a French roll in as much of the liquor as it will absorb, let it simmer till it is quite soft, and beat it smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Stir it into the soup, boil for a quarter of an hour, and add half a pint of boiling cream. Blanch two ounces of vermicelU by boiUng it in water for five minutes, drain it, put it into fresh water, and boil till it is tender. Put it into a tureen, pour the boihng soup upon it, and serve very hot. If cream is not to be had, the yolk of an egg and half a pint of milk may be used instead. Stir the boiling milk into the soup, beat the egg in the tureen, mix a little of the soup with it, and add the rest. Put in the vermicelli, and serve. Time, twelve to twenty minutes to boil the vermicelli. Sufficient for five or seven persons. Vermicelli Soup, "WTiite (another way).—Boil a quart of nicely-flavoured stock, break lightly two ounces of vennicelli, and blanch it in boiling water for five minutes, then put it into the soup, and boil till tender. Beat the yolk of an egg with two table-spoon- fuls of cream. A few minutes before it is to be served, mix a spoonful or two of the soup with the egg, add it to the rest, and let it simmer gently for a short time, but the soup must not boil after the egg is added. Put a French roll into the bottom of a tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. A few leaves of green cher\'il or finely-shred parsley may, if liked, be added to the soup to improve its appearance. Time, from twelve to twenty minutes to boil the vermicelli. Vermicelli with Boiled Chicken.— Truss a tender chicken for boiling, put it into a stewpan with two pounds of the cushion of bacon into which three or four cloves have been stuck. Add a small piece of white roux, or, failing this, half an ounce of butter mixed smoothly with flour, pour over it as much white stock as will cover it, and let all stew gently together for three-quarters of an hour. Throw into the stock two ounces of vcrmiceUi, and boil it till tender. Take up the fowl and bacon, and place them in separate dishes. Skim the stock, and pour it with the vermicelli over the fowl. Serve very hot. Time, two hours. Vermont Biscuits.—Rub six ounces of loaf sugar upon the rind of half a small fresh lemon until the yellow part has been rubbed ofE, then crush the sugar to powder, and mix with it five ounces of fine flour and the wcll- whiakcd yolks of three eggs. Put the mixture into a copper saucepan, and beat it briskly over a very gentle fire until smooth and thick, J J something like cream, then add the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Drop small portions from the end of a spoon upon waxed baking-sheets, and then put them into a cool oven. When they are firm and li"-htly browned they are done enough- Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Vermoute, or Wormwood Wine.— Put a tea-spoonful of the extract of woi-mwood in a pint of light wine. (Use the wine as a tonic.) St. George, a Hungarian wine, is useiV. in the preparation of true vermoute, but this cannot always be procured. Wonnwood is a plant which posesses intensely bitter tonic and stimulating qualities. It is frequently used in medicine. Vesuvian Macaroni.—"Wash a quarter of a pound of pipe macaroni, then let it simmei in a little veal gi'avy imtil it is quite tender but unbroken. Strain off the liquid, and put the macaroni into a stewpan with two ounces of finely-grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces of fresh butter broken into small pieces, and a little pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan over the fire for five or six minutes, then put its contents into a hot dish, and strew over the top four ounces of grated Parmesan, which, should have been prepared beforehand. Send good brown gravy to table in a tm-een. Servo immediately. Time, about half an hour to boil the macaroni. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Vice-Chancellor's Pudding.—Boil a quarter of a pint of milk and a quarter of a pint of cream with a dessert-spoonful of sugar and a small strip of lemon-rind. If liked, miUc only should be used. Strain it over a slice of the crumb of bread, and let it stand till the bread has absorbed it. Beat it lightly with a fork, and add the yolks of two eggs, the white of one, a table-spoonful of brandy, a little grated nutmeg, and sugar to sweeten it. Pour the pudding into a weU-buttered shape which it will quite fill, place a round of buttered paper on the top, tie it in a cloth, and boil tiU done enough. Let it stand for a minute or two, and turn it out. Time to boil the pudding, half an hour. Victoria Biscuits.—Put three ounces of fresh butter into a bowl, and beat it to cream; add, gradually, haK a pound of powdered white sugar, six ounces of dried flour, three ounces of pounded bitter almonds, and the rind of a lemon which has been rubbed upon sugar and crushed to powder. Moisten the mixture with a small glassful of liqueur, butter some small tms, dredge flour upon them, and bake in a tolerably brisk oven till they are lightly browned. Spread upon them thinly a little orange marmalade, dip them in glaze, and put them on a drainer in a cool oven for a few mmutes till it is set. The glaze may be pre- pared as follows:—Boil together over a quick fire half a pound of refined sugar and a quarter of a pmt of water. When bubbles appear on the surface of the syrup, dip the finger and thumb m cold water, and take a little of the sugar between them. Open them instantly, and when the thread between them is strong