PRO pRir ( 659 ) Articles of Diet. Soup, Beef, Vegetables, and Bread . Soup, Marrow-bones Ditto, Beans . Ditto, Barley . Ditto, Mutton Green Corn and Beans . Chicken Soup. Oyster ditto . Hashed Meat and Vege- tables . . Sausage, Fresh Heart, Animal Tendon .... Cartilage Aponeurosis . Beans, Pod . Bread, Wheaten, Fresh Ditto, Com . Cake, ditto Ditto, Sponge. Dumpling, Apple . Apples, Sour and Hard . Ditto, ditto. Mellow Ditto, Sweet ditto Parsnips Carrots, Orange Beet Turnips, Flat. Potatoes, Irish Ditto, ditto . Ditto, ditto Cabbage Head Ditto, wath Vinegar Ditto, ditto From these details, and the whole coxrrse of his experiments. Dr. Beaumont drew a number of inferences, of which the following were the most important:— " That stimulating condiments are injurious to the healthy stomach." " That the use of ardent spirits always pro- duces disease in the stomach, if persevered in." " That the quantity of food generally taken is more than the wants of the system require; and that such excess, if persevered in, gener- ally produces not only functional aberration, but disease of the coats of the stomach." " That bulk as well as nutriment is necessary to the articles of diet." " That the digestibility of aliment does not depend upon the quantity of nutrient principles that it contains." " That gentle exercise facilitates the digestion of food." " That the time required for that purpose is various, depending iipon the quantity and quality of the food, state of the stomach, &c.; but that the time ordinarily required for the dispersal of a moderate meal of the fibrous parts of meat, with bread, &c., is from three to three and a half hours." Provencal Potage, Bouillabaisse.— Take any kind of fish, but tho best are whiting, dory, haddock, or cod. Fillet the fish and trim it. Put in a frying-pan an onion sliced, a clove of garlic, some parsley finely chopped. Time re- Mode of quired for jzi cpu.rUiXJ.uii* "Oiirestion. h. m. Boiled . . 4 0 Ditto . . 4 15 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . I 30 Ditto . . 3 30 Ditto . . 3 45 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . 3 30 Warmed . 2 30 Broiled. . 3 20 Fried . . 4 0 Boiled . . 5 30 Ditto . . 4 15 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . 2 30 Baked . . 3 30 Ditto . . 3 15 Ditto . . 3 0 Ditto . . 2 30 Boiled . -30 Raw . 2 60 Ditto . . 2 0 Ditto . . 1 30 Boiled . . 2 30 Ditto . . 3 15 Ditto . . 3 45 Ditto . . 3 30 Ditto . . 3 30 Roasted . 2 30 Baked . . 2 30 Raw . 2 30 Ditto . . 2 0 Boiled . . 4 30 a bit of lemon or orange-peel, some salt, popper, spice, saifron, with a pint of water, a table- spoonful of oil and a glass of light wine for each pound of fish. Add tho fish filleted. Stii- the potage, and put it on a quick fire for a quarter of an hour till it bubbles. Let it remain now on the fire for five minutes; add a bit of butter mixed with flour, and serve. Fennel and bay-leaf may be added, if liked. Provencal Potage, Bouillabaisse (another way).—This way is for mackerel, sar- dines, herrings, or any otber rich fish. Take the fish and cut them ia fillets. Put in a stew- pan some leeks cut fine. Add some oil, or a. little melted butter, then put in the fish, well floured. Let them brown well, turning the fillets during five or six minutes. Add a glassful of water for every guest who ia to partake of the potage, along T\dth an onion, cloves, lemon- peel, pepper, salt, spice, and safEron, dissolved in butter or oil. Boil quickly for a quarter of an hour; add a roux; let the potage remain for five minutes at the fire, and then serve as in the last recipe. Proven9ale Sauce.—Put a spoonful of salad oil into a stewpan with a clove of garlic, a table-spoonful of chopped shallots, and three table-spoonfuls of chopped raw mushrcoms. Stir these ingredients over the fire for five minutes., then add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a glass- ful of sherry, half a tea-spoonful of pepper- corns, and half a blade of mace. Simmer gently for a quax-ter of an hour. Take out the herbs- and garlic, and add two table-spoonfuls more^ stock, and a little salt if required. Simmer five; minui^k carefully skim the sauce, rub it thxoughi a fine TO,ir-sieve, heat it again, and serve very- hot. A table-spoonful of lemon-juice should! be added at the last moment, or, if preferred, three or four ripe tomatoes may be boiled in the sauce rmtU they are soft enough to pass through the sieve. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. SuiEcient for four or five persons. Prune Pudding. — Wasb and stone a pound of prunes. Blanch the kernels, and simmer them with, three-quarters of a pint of water, a glassful of port, and a table-spoonful of sugar, till they are quite soft. Line a mould with pieces of the crumb of bread which have been soaked in clarified butter. Poiir in the stewed prunes gently, so as not to displace the bread, and add a table-spoonful of marmalade. Cover the fruit with a layer of bread, tie a piece of buttered paper over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Or, stew the fruit as above, mix with it half an ounce of dissolved isinglass, pour it into a mould, and when it is set, turn out, and serve. Time to bake, one hour. Pro- bable cost of prunes, 4d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight jjersons. Prune Pudding (another waj'^).—Beat a tea-cupful of flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Add two well-beaten eggs, a pinch of salt, and as much milk as will make a rather thick batter. Wash half a pound of pnmes, and simmer them in a little water tiU they are quite soft. Drain off the liquid, take out the stones, sprinkle a little flour over the prune?, and then stir them into the pudding. Dip a cloth into boiling water,