SKA SKA ( 880 ) taWc-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a aliced onion, to a gallon of watur. Boil tho tiah gontly until done enough. Tho timo rtKjuirud will diipund upon tho thicknosH. Tho livor, which is liighly priziid, should ho hoilod Boparatuly, and soi vod at tho side, or flnoly chopped and mixed with ptu'sloy and huttor. Good n\oltod huttor Ha- voured with lemon-juice, caper sauce, Bhriuij) sauce, o^' anc:hovy sauce, may all ho served with Bkate, or there may bo a sauce prepared as follows:—Dissolve four ounces of butter in a small saucepan, and stir in with it a tea-spoon- ful of chopped paraley and a table-spoonful of \-inogar. Simmer three minutes, and serve. Time to boil the skato, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per lb. Skate, Boiled in Stock.—Skin a skate, and cut it into square pieces. Take as much stock in which fish has been boiled, or veal stock, as Avill cover the fish, and simmer it gently for an hour with the trimmings of the fish, the shell of a lobster or crab thoroughly cleansed, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two or three sliced onions. Strain and thicken the stock with brown thickening, and add pepper and salt, a little ketchup and soy, and a glass of claret. Put in the skate, and boil it until done enough. Serve it with the sauce poured over. Time to boil the skate, fifteen to twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Skate, Choosing of. — Skate varies in quality more than most fish. The best is broad and thick, prickly on the back, with the brown side brown and healthy-looking, and the under side of a delicate creamy whiteness. Large fish ctre firmer and altogether more profitable than small fish, ha%dng more flesh in proportion to the quantity of gristle. The upper skin should be removed, and it should be stripped ofE from the middle outwards. If skate has a strange smell, unlike the ordinary smell of fish, it should be discarded as dangerous. " Skate," says Dr. Kitchener, " is a very good fish when it is in good season, but no fish so bad when it is otherwise. Those persons who hke it firm and dry should have it crimped, but those who like it tender should have it plain, and ate not earlier than the second day; and, if cold weather, three or four days old it is better; it cannot be kept too long if perfectly sweet. Skate, if young, eats very fine crimped and fried." Skate, Crimped.—Skin the skate on both sides, cut it in stnps the length of tho fish and an inch broad, roU each length round the finger, and tie it with thread. Lay the rolled strips for an hour or two in salted water mixed with a table-spoonful of vinegar, or in cold spring water. Fish to be crimped should be taken as soon as possible after it is dead. The inhuman practice of crimping it while alive cannot be too strongly deprecated. Crimped skate is generally sold cut in sbces, rolled and tied with string, and with a little piece of tho liver in each roU. Put the fish into fast- boiling salted water, and boil it gently until done enough. Take it up, drain it, remove the string, and serve on a napkin with one of the sauces recommended for boUed skato in a tureen, or without a napkin and with the sauce poured over it. 'J'inie, fift(!cn to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per jjound. Skate. Curried.—Curried skate requires to be cooked very carefully, or it will drop to pieces. Boil two pounds of skiite with a little of tho Uver; diain it well, afid put it on a diisii. Whilst it is boihng, shco two onions and a good-sized apple, and fry them in a httle butter till soft. Rub them patiently through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a tea-spoonful of cmry powder, a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a tea-spoonful of ground rice, and about a pint of stock. Boil the sauce, and stir it fre- quently. When it is thick and smooth pour it upon the fish in the dish, and send rice boiled for curry to table in a separate dish. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the fish. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per lb. Skate, Dressed, To Re-dress.—Pick the flesh from the bones, mince finely, and mix with it its bulk in finely-grated bread- crumbs. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; moisten the preparation with butter, and mix in a little chopped parsley. Beat it till smooth, bind it together with yolk of egg, and form it into the shape of corks or balls. Fry these in hot fat, drain them, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to frj', ten minutes. Skate, Fried.—Cut the skate into square pieces; let these He in cold water v.'ith. a Uttle vinegar or lemon-juice, a sprig of parsley, and a few peppercorns, for an hour; drain, dry, and flour them, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot dripping till they are hghtly browned. Send brown sauce, tomato, piquant, or caper sauce to table with them. Time, eight to ten minutes, according to thick- ness. If skate is too much done it is spoiled. Skate, Fried (another way).—When the fish are very small, pickle them in vinegar, salt, pepper, a sliced onion, some parsley, and lemon-juice, for about an hour. Next drain them, and dip them into an omelet, and then into flour. Then fry them in hot dripping, and send them up either with or without sauce. When skate is boiled with marinade, the skin must remain while boiling, otherwise the colour of the marinade will dye the fish; take off the skin after it is done, and dress it in the dish immediately. Skate, Fried, To Eat Cold—Put the skate into boiling water, and boil it for five minutes; take it up, drain and dry it, and dip it into egg and bread-crumbs. Fry it slowly in hot fat,let it get cold, and serve garnished with parsley. Send mustard, pepper, and vinegar to table "with it. Skate, Marinaded.—Remove the skin on both sides, and divide the fish into slices two or three inches long and an inch broad. Lay these in a dish, pour vinegar over them, and add a little pepper and salt, a bunch of parsley, and a sliced onion. Let the fish soak for some hours; when wanted, drain the pieces, dip them in flour, and fry them in hot dripping.till they arc brightly browned. Send them to Uiblo