SAL C 821 ) SAX. from sea-water, the other from salt-springs and lakes. The former method is practised in Hampshire, France, Spain, and Portugal; the latter in the island ot Cape Verd and many- parts of America. 2. Marine or Newcastle salt, which is extracted from sea-water when boiled. 3. Brine or fountain salt, prepared in a similar manner from brine taken from rivers, lakes, &c. 4. White salt—one kind prepared from sea-water, after having been subjected to the sun's heat and exposed to the air; another kind, extracted from sand or stones, impreg- nated with saline particles. 5. Kefined rock salt, boiled from a solution. 6. Salt-upon- salt, procm-ed from an amalgamation of bay and other salts, and much used by the Dutch in preserving herrings. Salt-water Fish, Wholesomeness of.—Salt-water fish are the best of any, as their flesh is more sohd, more agreeable and healthy, less exposed to putrescency, and less viscid. They possess these excellent qualities when fresh; when salted, they have all the properties of salt flesh, and consequently its disadvantages. Those fish which have scales are in general the most easily digested and the best: and of all these the fresh herring appears to deserve the preference. The herring, the whiting, the sole, the cod-fish, the dory, the turbot, and the flounder, are perhaps the most digestible and best of fish. Salmon, mackerel, lobster, and most kinds of sheU-fish, are very ditficult of digestion and unwholesome. Salting Meat.—Full instructions for salt- ing the various joints are given under the different headings, nevertheless it may be useful to present in a concise form general instructions for the process. The meat should always be brought in as soon as the animal is killed, the kernels, sinews, and pipes should be at once removed, and the blood and moisture wiped away. Then, if liked, it may be allowed to hang for a few days in cool weather to become tender; in hot weather it should be im- mediately salted. Exceedingly hot and exceed- ingly cold weather are equally unfavourable for salting meat. A handful of common salt should first be sprinkled over the meat, then it should be allowed to lie on a dish in a cool place for twenty-four hours, and afterwards the brine should be drained from it, the moisture wiped off, and the salting process continued. The great art of salting meat consists in rubbing the salt thoroughly and equally into every part, between the muscles and under the flaps, and into the places from which the kemek were taken; the holes in which the butcher's skewers were pushed ought also to be filled with salt. The meat ought to be turned every day, and rubbed in the brine which flows from it. It ought to be examined too, and if any mouldiness gathers on any portion of it, that part should be cut off, and the place rubbed with salt. The quantity of salt used must be regulated by the weight of the joint, which should be rubbed plentifully in every part with the salt-mixture, and afterwards well covered with it. The salt should be heated and pounded before being used. Bay-salt, though mors expensive, gives a better flavour to meat than common salt, saltpetre reddens it, but makes it hard and dry. As Little should be used as possible. A little sugar makes the meat mellow. An ounce of saltpetre will be sufficient for four pounds of sugar and salt, and one pound of sugar may be put with four pounds of salt. Sometimes a minced onion and a spoonful of poxmded herbs are mixed with the salt—they help to make the meat savoury. Meat which is salted dry will lose in weight, whereas if it is pickled, that is, if it is immersed completely in liquid brine, it will gain slightly in weight, and keep longer. Pickle which is once made can be used again and again if boiled up occasionally, and if fresh salt is put in to make up for loss. The meat should be kept under the pickle, and if necessary a board should be laid upon it to ensure this. The tub, too, in which the meat is cured should be kept covered with a lid or with a blanket folded into two or three thicknesses. Pickle made in the following proportions will be found excellent and very strong. Three pounds of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, half a pound of sugar, and two gallons of water. Boil half an hour, skim, and cool. When the pickle is boiled up with additional salt, it should be carefully skimmed each time, as the portion which would make it spoil will rise in scum, and can be removed. A piece of meat can be kept two or three weeks in this pickle in cool weather. When it has been kept in so long, it should be soaked in water for an hour or two before being dressed or it will be too salt. Pork needs to remain in pickle longer in proportion to its weight than beef. Salting Meat (additional particulars).— The preservation of meat by the process of salt- ing is that which is universally practised in the domestic economy of the British Isles. Long as this method has been known, the mode of its operation has never been clearly explained. Meat preserved by salt, as might be expected, becomes hard and ill-tasted if very long kept. But if it be withdrawn from the salt in a rea- sonable time, and the water entirely removed by drying the meat in the &ir, it will keep with much less injury; and if it be dried in the smoke of burning peat, turf, or wood, the vege- table tar and pyroligneous acid generated by the combustion will not only communicate an agreeable taste, but will considerably assist in its preservation. This mode of preserving is adopted in the case of himg beef, bacon, hams, tongues, and various kinds of fish. Smoked provisions are, however, apt to disagree with some persons, and there are instances known of empyreiraia even proving poisonous. The antiseptic power of salt must appear to be a most fortunate property of that substance, when we consider how great a relish mankind have had for it in all ages. " Can that," says Job, " which is unsavoury be eaten without salt ? or is there any taste in the white of an egg ? " Much better for us would it be to be deprived of all that remains of the tribe of condiments than this one. It should, however, be observed that, according to the experiments of Sir John Pringle, salt, Uke sugar, is only an antiseptic in largo quantities; he found that a