( 972 ) TIN TIN of flour, four tablo-spooiifuls of cold wiitor, a small piuch uf salt, a pint of new milk, and two eggs well-beatou. liuko in a modoratoly hot ovon. 21. Toad in a Hole. Pour tlio batter No. 20 over layers of Aus- tralian mutton and very thin slices of crumb of broad placed alternately in a buttered pie- dish and seasoned. Bake for an hour, and serve with a boat of good gravy. 22. PuDuiNQ, Beef and Kidney. Prepare a crust as for No. 11; lino a greased basin with it, and place in it alternate layers of sUces of beef cut an inch thick and well seasoned, and of thinly-sliced kidneys (ox kidneys do very well for this purpose, they are larger and cheaper), a httle linely-minced shallot, and a tea-cupful of good gravy. "When the dish is full, cover with crust, and boil an hour and a half. Serve some brown gravy with the pudding. 23. Beef Fkied with Suet Dumplings. Cut some nice tidy pieces of beef across the i grain, flour them well, i)epper and salt them, and then fry in Australian fat till of a nice brown; place in a hot dish, and put it in the oven to keep hot till you have the dumplings ready. Eoli up a table-spoonful of paste (see'No. 11} in well-floured hands, and drop into a fiercely- boiling saucepan of water; as they rise, take them out, and lay them round the meat in the dish, pour a little thick brown gravy over, and serve. 24. Mutton Fried with Suet Pudding. Fry mutton in slices as the beef is done in No. 23. Cut a boiled suet pudding made as the crust in No. 11 into slices, fry lightly—if just boiled and hot it will only require a short time to fry—lay it round the meat, pour gravy over, and serve. 25. Mutton with Sausages. Prepare the meat as in the two foregoing recipes. Fry some sausages cut in short lengths and pricked in Australian fat, place them on the meat, and serve with brown gravy poured over. 26. Mutton with Bacon. Prepare the meat as before; and place on each piece a nicely-fried piece of bacon. Pom- over it the following sauce:—First prepare of chopped gherkins, capers, and shallots, one table-spoonful each ; put in a pan with a little pepper and one wine-glassful of vinegar; let it boil four minutes, then add rather more than half a pint of good stock, a table-spoonful of flour, a little colouring, a piece of batter the size of a nut, and one tea-spoonful of anchovy; boil, and stir well. 27. Beef fried in Batter. Cut some tidy pieces of beef an inch thick, flour well, and dip in a batter made according to No. 20. Have ready some boiling fat in a frying-pan, lay in the pieces of meat gently, so as not to break them ; fry a light brown, and serve with a boat of gravy. 28. Beep with Savoury Pudding. ■ Fry tho beof as in recipe No. 23, and place round the dish in. neat slices the following savoury pudding :—Pour boiling milk on some bread rubbed line, add four large table-Ki>oon- fuls of fine oatmeal, two well beaten eggs, pepper and salt, a httle onion choi)pod fine', dried and rubbed sago and sweet marjoram,' half a tea-spoonful of each. The compound should be as stUf as thick l>atter. Beat all well together, and bake m a diipping-jjan an inch thick, cut up like Yorkshire pudding, and serve with good gravy. 29. Beep (au Fromage). Mince finely a pound of Australian beof, sea- son it with pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a chopped shallot; boil some macaroni tender in broth, lay the mince in a pie-dish, cover with the macaroni, pour on it a tea-cupful of the broth, pepper it, and grate two ounces of cheese over it. Bake a quarter of an hour in a hot oven. 30. Beef (au Macaroni). Mince as in Beef au Fromage. Lay the meat in a shallow pie-dish, boil some macaroni in broth with a sliallot; when tender, lay it over the meat, pour on it a tea-cupful of the broth, cover with a plate, and heat it through in the oven. 31. Beef (au Gratin). Mince two pounds of beef, mix with it half a pound of minced bacon, season the whole with pepper and salt and nutmeg; lay it in a shallow dish, spread grated bread-crumbs over it half an inch thick, bake half an hour, and serve, putting the dish in another before sending to table. 32. Meat with Potato Cover. Mince some Australian mutton, season with pepper and salt, mix with it a tea-cupful of broth, and put it in a shallow dish. Boil some mealy potatoes, mash them, beat them up with an egg, a bit of butter, and a little milk; spread this mixture smoothly over the meat, and bake till of a golden brown. 33. Potato Pie. Put into a pie-dish alternate layers of sliced meat and sliced potatoes, pepper and salt it (a few button mushrooms are a great addition); pour in a tea-cupful of thickened gravy, cover it with mashed potatoes as for No. 32 ; mark it over with a three-pronged fork, and bake half an hour in a brisk oven. 34. Potato Wall. Mash some potatoes as for No. 32 ; pile them round the inside of a meat-dish, raised up three inches high and two and a half inches thick. Smooth the surface of the wall with a knife, and brush over with the yolk of an ogg beaten; fill up the hollow inside with a well-seasoned mince, and bake half an hour. 35. Potato Rissoles. Have ready well-seasoned mince mixed with a fourth of its own weight in bread-crumbs, roll a piece into a ball, cover it with mashed potato prepared as in No. 32; floiir well, and fry a nice brown colour in Austrahan fat. 36. Rice Rlssoler. Take a tea-cupful of well-washed rice, leave it to soak twenty minutes in cold water; stium