( 1123 ) WHO WIG- in a moderately-heated oven. Or, whole meal, seven pounds; flour, three pounds and a half; solid beer yeast, three large dessert-spoonfuls, or fresh German yeast, nearly two oimces; liquid, rather more than four pints and a quarter; salt as ahove. Or, whole meal, one gallon; German yeast, one ounce and a quarter in summer, one ounce and a half in wnter, or solid brewer's yeast, three dessert-spoonfuls; all else as in the foregoing recipe. It is to be observed that about an ounce or a moderiite- sized table-spoonful of salt to the gallon of flour is suflicient to remove any insipidity of flavour fi-om bread, but a larger proportion is liked by many persons. Not only will a smaller quan- tity of yeast be required in summer than in very cold weather for the fermentation of dough, but the liquid used in making it will require to bo less warm than in winter. Ex- perienced breadmakers recommend that it should then be used at blood-heat (98"). Wholesome-fare Pudding.—This fa- vourite bread-and-butter pudding may be thus made : — Cut some thin sUces of bread and butter; butter a dish, and lay slices all over it. Strew on a few currants picked and washed clean, a little grated nutmeg and cinnamon pounded or in small pieces; then a row of bread and butter, then a few currants again, with the spice as before, and so on, till the dish is fuU. Sweeten some milk according to the size of the dish, and beat up three eggs, a little salt, and a little more nutmeg grated. Mix them all together, pour it over the bread, and bake it. Three rows of bread and butter are sufficient for a dish of a moderate size, as it swells considerably. Slices of bread and beef- suet chopped fine will answer the purpose of bread and butter for a family pudding. Let it stand an hour after the milk has been put to it before it is put into the oven. More eggs may be added, and cream used instead of milk, if it is intended to be very rich. Some people put a little brandy into it. Whortleberry.—This berry sometimes goes under the names of windberry, bartleberry, and bilberry. It grows wild in great abundance upon our heathy commons and imcultivated hills. It is also plentiful in the northern parts of Europe. The fruit is seldom brought to market, but it is much relished by some persons in tarts or cream, and made into jellies. There are several varieties of whortleberry; the purple are rather larger than juniper-berries, and are covered with a fine blue or purple bloom, like the bloom of plums. They are seldom culti- vated. This little berry makes an excellent jelly, being treated exactly in the same manner as currant jelly, to which, in flavour, it is far superior. It, however, requires a pound and a half of sugar to each pint of juice. It will keep good two years, and if properly and carefully made be bettor the second year than the first. Whortleberry Jam (a German recipe). —Moisten the sugar with wine, and boil it well. To four quarts of fruit allow two pounds of sugar and half an ounce of powdered cinnamon. When the sugar boils in transparent bubbles, throw in the fruit, and keep stii-ring till it is of a smooth consistency and no more thin juica collects on the top. Sprinkle inihe cinnamon just before it is done. Widgeon.—The common widgeon is plenti- ful in Britain during winter. The flesh is good for the table. The American widgeon forms also an esteemed food. It breeds chiefly in the northern parts oi America, and is common in winter on the coasts of the United States and in the rice-grounds. Widgeon, Gravy for.—Put a quarter of a pint of veal stock into a saucepan with an inch of thin lemon-rind, three leaves of basil, and a thin slice of onion. Let the liquor boil a few minutes, and strain it. Put with it the clear juice of a lemon or of a Seville orange, and add a glassful of port and a little salt and cayenne. Send it to table very hot. Or dissolve an ounce of fresh butter in a saucepan, stir into it the strained juice of two lemons, and add a little salt and cayenne. Send the gravy to table in a tureen and very hot. Many cooks score the breast of the bird deeply, and pour the gravy over it; but this plan is not to be recommended, because many persons prefer widgeon without gravy. Sirfecient for two birds. Widgeon, Gravy for (another way).— See Orange Gravy for Teal, Widgeons, &c. Widgeon, Hashed.—Cut the best parts of the widgeons into neat pieces. Place them on a dish, cover them over, and place them in a cool pantry till wanted. Put the carcases and trimmings of the birds into a small saucepan with the remains of the gravy that was served with them, or, failing this, with a Uttle broth or water. Let them simmer gently till the liquor is strong and good, then rub the gravy with the Httle pieces of meat that have fallen from the bones through a sieve. Add a wine-glassful of sherry to the sauce, and put it back into the saucepan with the pieces that were put aside. Let these simmer gently till they are warmed through. Of course they must not be allowed to boU. Arrange them on toast upon a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. Time, about half an hour to simmer the pieces. Widgeon, Roasted.—Rub the breast of the widgeon -\vith the liver till it is red. Truss it securely, and put it down before a clear fire. Flour it, and baste frequently till done. Serve on toast in a dish, and send the gravy to table with it. It is generally preferred that a widgeon should be underdressed. If liked, it may be stuffed with the liver pounded and mixed with a few bread-crumbs, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon-rind, and bound together with the yolk of an egg. Time to roast the widgeon, a quarter of an hour; if liked well done, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, Is. each. Widgeon are seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, two for a dish. Wiggs.—Put half a pint of warm milk to three-quarters of a pound of fine flour; mix in it two or three spoonfuls of light yeast. Cover it up, and set it before the fire an hour, in order to make it rise. W^ork into it four ounces each of sugar and butter; make it into cakes, or