( 1120 ) WHI have steamed a minute, put with thorn a sour apple chopped small. Kub the onion and the apple through a sieve. Place the pulp in a basin, and mix smoothly with it a tablo-apoon- ful of- curry paste or powder, a table-spoonful of ground rice, and as much nicely-llavourod stock as will cover the fish. Put the sauce into a stewpan, and when it boils, put into it the fillets of whiting. Let them boil gently till done enough. Put them carefully on a 'dish; slcim the sauce and pour it over them, and send rice boiled for cuny to table on a separate dish. If liked, a little cream may be added to the sauce to em-ich it, and if it is not sufficiently acid, a little lemon-juice may bo stin-ed into it. Time, a few minutes to boil the whitings. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for four or five persons. Whiting, Fillets of .—Empty and cleanse the fish, but do not skin them. Pass a knife from the tail to the head, and take off the flesh close to the bone. Divide the fillets into halves crosswise, trim them neatly, fold them in a soft cloth, and leave them for awhile that they may be perfectly dried. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle a little oil and vinegar over them, dip them in beaten white of egg, flour them well, and fry in hot fat till they are crisp and lightly browned. Drain them, press them in white blotting-paper to free them from fat, and place in a cii-cle on a hot dish, and serve with melted butter, or with parsley, an- chovy, shrimp, ra\agote, piquant, or oyster sauce. The last-named sauce, if made very thick and white, may be served in the centre of the fillets. Time to fry the fillets, five minuteg or more. Probable cost of whiting, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one small whiting for each person. Whiting, FiUetS of (another way).— After having scaled, emptied, and washed the whitings, take up the fillets. Pare them nicely on both sides without damaging the skin. Cut each fillet in two pieces of an equal size, and put them into an earthen pan with a few stalks of parsley, and a few shallots shredded, some salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon; stir the whole in the lemon-juice. Let it steep for about three houi-s. Then drain the fillets on a clean towel. Next beat the whites of two eggs, so that they may stick to the fillets. Slix some crumbs of bread and flour, dip the fillets into the whites of eggs and in the crumbs of bread and flour, and fry the whole just before they are wanted in very hot dripping, that they may be served up hot with white sharp sauce. Whiting Forcemeat.—Skin and fillet two or three whitings, scrape the flesh with a Bpoon, and rub it through a wire sieve. To twelve ounces of the fish thus prepared put half a pound of panada {see Panada) and six ounces of fresh butter. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, mix the ingredients thoroughly, and add gradually three whole eggs and the yolks of two. Poach a small quantity of the forcemeat to ascertain whether or not it is firm, yet light and delicately flavoured. If too stiff, mix a little .cream with it. Keep it on ice till required. Whiting Forcemoat, Boudins of.— Prupuro some whiting i'orcom.^at according to the instructions abeudy given. Roll out tlie forcemeat' on tlio table in the fonn of oval cutlets two inches and a half long, one incli and a half wide, and one and three-qujii-ters of an inch thick. Lay these on strips of oiled paper three-quarters of an inch larger than the cutlttg. Make a hollow in the centre of each boudiii size of a failhing and three-quai"ter8 of an inch deep. Throe-parts fill this with shrimps, mussels, or oysters, cut into small dice and mixed in some very stiffly-reduced allemande .sauce. Ck)ver the sauce entirely witli forcemeat. A quarter of an hour before the boudins are to bo served, drop them airefully into some hot but not boiling water slightly salted, and simmer gently till the forcemeat is set. Drain them, dish them in a circle on a hot dish, pour over them some allemande or ravigote sauce, and serve. By way of variety, instead of poaching the boudins, brush them over with egg, roU them in bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear but not too fierce fire. Dish them in a circle, and serve with clear gravy flavoured -with lemon-juice. Whiting, Fried.—Clean, skin, and dry the fish thoroughly in a soft cloth. If they are not perfectly dried, the egg and bread- crumbs will not adhere to them. Turn the tail of each one round and fasten it between the jaws by means of a small skewer. Brush the fish over with Ughtly-beaten egg, and cover with fine bread-crumbs mixed with a little flour. Fry in plenty of hot fat till they are done through and lightly browned; drain and dry them well, and serve on a dish covered with a napkin. Garnish with parsley. Send anchovy or shi-imp sauce to table in a tureen. Small fried whitings are frequently used to garnish lai'ge fish, such as turbot and cod. The whiting, if very large, should be split open, crumbed, and fried flat, or they may be filleted, rolled, and fried. Time to fry small wliitings, about six minutes. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Whiting, Fried, Economical. — Empty, cleanse, scrape, and wipe the whitings without skinning them, and score them on each side to the depth of a quarter of an inch with a sharp knife. Dip the fish in milk, flour it well, and fry it in fat till crisp and lightly browned. Drain it, serve on a hot dish covered with a napkin, and send anchovy, shrimp, or ra\-igote sauce to table with it. Time, about six minutes to fry the fish. Whiting, Hot Pie of Fillets of (Careme's recipe).—Take the fillets of fifteen small whitings, wash and trim them without taking off the skins. Season highly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Spread thinly over them a forcemeat of crayfish, Nvith truffles of mush- rooms ; roU up the fillet (beginning at the small end) quite round, men thus prepared, spread some of.the same forcemeat at the bottom and sides of the pie; place upon it ten of the faUets upright, which should thus cover the bottom; pour upon them two spoonfuls of butter scarcely