POR POB ( 611 ) left press the outside closely to keep it firm and smooth Be cai-eful that the walls are equally thick in every part. FiU the pie, put on the ^over, pinch the edges, fasten sccui-ely witn white of egg, ornament the outside m any way that may suit the fancy, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake in a slow oven if the pie be large, in a quicker one if it be small. Pork, Precautions in Cooking.— Take particular care it be done enough : other meats underdone are unpleasant, but pork is absolutely uneatable; the sight of it is enough to appal the sharpest appetite if its gi-avy has the least tint of redness. Be careful of the ■crackUng: if this be not crisp, or if it be .burned, you will be scolded. Pork Pudding. — line a well-buttered -basin with good suet crust. Fill it with alter- nate layers of pork cut into neat slices and j)ork sausage meat, and allow double the weight .of pork to that of sausage meat. Put a little pepper and salt, a chopped onion, and half a ^ozen sage-leaves finely shred with the meat, .and add two or three spoonfuls of gravy made irom the trimmings. Put on the cover, fasten the edges securely, tie the pudding in a floured <;loth, plimge it into boiling water, and keep it "boiling untn it is done enough; then turn it out carefully, and serve on a hot dish. Time to boil a moderate-sized pudding, about three hours. Probable cost, pork and pork sausage, lOd. per pound. Pork Pudding (another way). A Dutch recipe. — Put half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs into a bowl. Pour over these three-quarters of a pint of milk which has been mixed with two well-beaten eggs, and let them .-soak for an hour. Stir in with them two pounds of lean pork finely minced and sea- .soned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Add a little more butter to the sides of the dish, if requii'ed. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, 28. 3d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Pork, Rearing Hogs for.—As regards the wholesomeness of its flesh, the hog is more affected by the mode of keeping than any other known animal. It is naturally indolent and filthy in its habits, but cleanliness and atten- tion have a great influence in making it thrive. The kind of food given to swine produces a marked eft'oct on the quality of the flesh. Skimmed milk and peas, oats, and barley-meal rank first in excellence as food for making delicate pork. Milk alone will fatten pigs, and milk-fed pork is the most delicate of any. Pork fed on beans is hard and ill-flavoured; that which is fed entirely on grain has the fat spongy; fermented grain and the must of cider render the hog bloated, and " liable to fits of the gout, from being kept in a state of constant intoxication." Potatoes make a light, insipid flesh. Reared on oUcake the flesh is little better than carrion, and butchers' offal makes the pork fuU of gravy, but gives it a disgusting strong taste and smell. For bacon and flitches hogs are fattened on purpose, and their food will depend on the circumstances of their owners. Round the forests of this country it is tho practice to di-ive the hogs in at the proper season of the year, that they may feed on the acorns and other kernels that fall from the trees. It is said that Westphalia hams owe much of their excellence to a similar custom. Pork, Roast, Apple Sauce for.— Peel some apples, cut them into quarters, and put them into a stewpan with a little brown sugar and water. Stir weU with a wooden spoon, add a little butter, and when done enough send the sauce to table. The apples must not be too much stewed, or they will lose their acidity and become too brown. Pork, Rolled.—Bone a leg of pork; have ready a forcemeat of chopped sage, bread- crumbs, allspice, salt, and pepper; put this forcemeat within the meat, and roll it up tight. Roast gently, keeping the meat at fii'st some distance from the fiLre; froth it with butter and flour a few minutes before serving. Pork, Saddle of, Roasted.—Have a saddle of pork cut in the same way as a saddle of mutton. As pork is not often cut up in this way, it wiU be necessary to order it beforehand. Take ofi the skin, trim the joint neatly, and cover the fat with buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. Half an hour before it is taken up, remove the paper, dredge the meat lightly with flour, and baste until it is brightly browned. Send brown gravy and apple-sauce, tomato-sauce, orpoivrade sauce, to table with it. If Uked, the skin can be left on, and it will then require to be scored lengthwise, the same way in which the saddle is carved. This is the handsomest joint of pork that can be served. Time, without the skin, twenty minutes per pound. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Pork, Salted.—Of all animal food pork takes salt best, and is most easily preserved. A smaller quantity of salt will keep it than any other meat. It also acquires saltness mol-e slowly than any other. Pork, Salted, for Larding.—In salting pork it is well to put aside a piece to be used exclusively for larding, and for this to omit saltpetre altogether, and merely rub it well with salt, put a weight upon it, and leave it for five or six weeks, until it is ready for smoking. If saltpetre is rubbed into bacon which is to be used for larding, there wall be danger that the lardoons will impart a pink tinge to the white meats that come in contact with them. Pork Sausages.—First prepare the skins. To do this, empty the hog's intestines, cut them into lengths, and lay them in salt and water for three or four days. Turn them inside out once or twice during that time. Rinse and scrape them, and they are ready for use. To make the sausages:—Mince finely a pound of lean pork free from skin and gristle. Add one pound of finely-shred beef suet, two large table-spoonfuls of grated bread, a plentiful allowance of pepper, salt, and finely-chopped sage, and a pinch of powdered allspice and powdered cloves. Fill the skins, and leave plenty of room to tie the ends. Or mince finely