WHI C 1121 ) WHI melted, and place two more layers of the fillets (ten in each), and pour two or more spoonfuls of butter over them, with two bay-leaves added. Finish the pie in the usual way, and bake it an hour and a qufirter; then pour oft' at the time of serving all the fat, and mask with a ragoflt of carp-roes, crayfish-tails, mushrooms, and arti- choke-bottoms, with a tomato sauce or an Eapagnole with lemon-juice. Whiting, Paupiettes of—FiUet three or four fuU-sized whitings. Trim the fillets, season with pepper and salt, and spread upon each a little whiting forcemeat {see Whiting Forcemeat). Roll them round, tie securely with twine, and wrap them in strips of oiled paper. Put them in the oven, and bake until done enough. Remove the paper, place the paupiettes upright on a dish, put upon the top of each a turned mushroom or a bunch of parsley, pour a little lobster sauce round them, and serve. Time to bake the paupiettes, about half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Wtiiting Pollack.—This fish is not much prized as an article of food. It is com- mon near the shores of Britain and in the Baltic, and, is usually about the size of a had- dock. The flesh is rather coarse. Whiting Pout, — The whiting pout, otherwise known as the bib, the brassy, the bleus, and the pout, is an excellent fish, which is not so highly esteemed as it deserves to be, possibly because it may be purchased in the places where it is abundant at a trifling cost. It possesses the singular power of inflating the membrane which cover the eyes and other parts of the head, which, when thus distended, have the appeai-ance of bladders. It is probably from this that it derives its name of pout. It is a deeper and stouter fish than the whiting, and its flesh is firmer, di-ier, and less delicate. It seldom exceeds twelve inches in length. It should be eaten very fresh, and may be cooked in every way like whiting. It is improved by being salted for twelve hours, and still further improved by being dried in a current of air. To vary the flavour of the fish, slightly smoke it over a wood fire, then broil it. The great Soyer pronounced this fish to be quite equal to the red mullet. Whiting Pudding.—Take half a pound of the flesh of cold boiled whiting perfectly freed from skin and bone. Pound it to a smooth paste, soften by working gradually into it four ounces of fresh butter which has been beaten to cream, and add three ounces of baked flour, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with the yolks of four and the weU-whisked whites of three eggs. Form the pudding to a bolster shape, roll it in oiled paper, and tie it in a cloth. Fasten both ends securely, and steam it over fast-boiling water. Turn it out carefully, serve on a hot dish, and send good white sauce nicely flavoured with lemon-juice in a tureen to table with it. Timo to steam the pudding, one hour. K I. Probable cost, Is,, without the sauce. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Whiting Quenelles. — Prepare some whiting forcemeat, and keep it upon ico till required {see Whiting Forcemeat). Take two spoons of the size it is intended the quenelles should be, and fill one of them with the forcemeat. Dip the other spoon into boil- ing water, remove the queneUe with it, and put it in a buttered saucepan. Repeat until there are as many quenelles as are desired. Pour over them some stock, and boil thero. gently till firm. Take up the quenelles, put them into a dish, pour a little fish sauce round them, and serve. Time to boil the quenelles, about ten minutes. Whiting, Sauce for.—Whitings may be served with plain melted butter, or with shrimp, anchovy, maitre d'hotel, piquant, tomato, ravi- gote, white, or Dutch sauce. Sometimes they are sent to table with no other accompani- ment than a cut lemon. Whiting, Stewed.— Skin, cleanse, and fillet three full-sized whitings, trim the fiUets neatly, and divide them into halves. Season with pepper, salt, and grated lemon-rind, and sprinkle over them a pinch of powdered mixed sweet herbs. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, put the fish into it, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Pour a glass of sherry over them, and add the strained juice of half a lemon. Let them heat thi-ee oi four minutes. Take them up carefully, put them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Serve inunediately. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the fish. Probable cost, whitings, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Whiting, Wholesomeness of.—The whiting is very tender and delicate; it possesses these qualities in a greater degree than any other fish which our coasts afford. It is not a very nutritive food, but it produces no stimu- lating action on the system, and not being oily or viscid is easily digested, and therefore weU suited to deUcate stomachs, and to patients labouring under various complaints, in which the daily use of even the least exciting meat might prove injurious. Whiting with Caper Sauce.—Cleanse, scrape, and dry two full-sized whitings, and score them on both sides to the depth of a quarter of an inch with a sharp knife. Sea- son with pepper and salt, lay them in a buttered baking-dish, and pom- over them a large wine-glassful of light wine. Put them in the oven, and bake gently till done enough. Make the third of a pint of melted butter, stir into it the liquor from the fish, and add two table-spoonfuls of bruised capers. Pour it over the fish, and serve. Time to bake the fish, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, whitings, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Whiting with Herbs.—Take off the heads and tails, and lay the fish in a stewpan rubbed well with butter, with a handful of mixed herbs chopped fine. Sprinkle with melted butter and a glassful of white wine. Whcu.