TEO TRO ( 994 ) onion stuck with a clove, a small hunch of parsley, and a sprig of tliynu\ a salt-spoouful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of whito pepper. Mix thoroughly, and add half a pint of Khcrry or madeira. iSimmor the trout very gently till the eyes start. I'our off tlio liquor, leaving only sullieient to ke(;p the fish moist, thicken with flour and butter, let it boil up, then servo tho fish on a hot dish with part of the sauce poured over it and tho rest in a tureen. If this dish is considered too extravagant, the fish may bo boiled in stock flavoured with sherry, then thickened with flour and butter, and flavoiu-ed with the strained juice of a lemon, a tea-spoon- ful of anchovy essence, and a little salt and cayenne. Time, ten minutes or more, accord- ing to size. Probable cost—very uncertain. Sufficient for two or three persons. TEO0T. Trout (a I'Aurore).—Take two moderate- sized trout, empty them, remove the gills and fins, scrape off the scales, then wash carefully, and wipe them dry. Put into the kettle as much water as will cover the fish, and with each quart put a table-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Put the trout into the water when it is boiling, and boil gently: when the eyes start they are done enough. Lift them out carefully, drain them, place them in a hot dish, and cover en- tirely with a sauce prepared as foUows:— Beat the yolks of throe eggs thoroughly, and mix with them a quarter of a pint of white sauce, an ounce of grated parmesan, a tea- spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken ; it is then ready. Boil two eggs till hard, mince them finely, mix a table-spoonful of grated parmesan with them and sprinkle the mixture over the fish, i ut it in the oven for about a quarter of an hour till it is hot through, brown the surface with a salamander or red-hot shovel, then pour a little shrimp, tomato, or lol)ster sauce round the tisn, and serve it very hot. Time, trout weighing about a pound, ten or twelve minu es to boil, \arffe trout, twenty minutes. Probable coat, un- certoin. Sufficient for thice or four persons. Trout, Baked.—Clean and dry the fish, and season tliem inside and out with a little salt and cayenne and a pinch of powdered mace if liked. I'ut them in a baking-dish, and lay little pieces of butter here aii(l there upon them, liaste occasionally with the liquor tliat colleds in the i)an. Baked trout rniiy be served liot or cold. If served liot, the fish gravy should be mixed with a Uttle good melted butter, and sent to table in a tureen. When it is a convenience, several trout may be baked together. They should be put into the dish in layers, and a little seasoning, chopped parsley, and butter should be placed between each layer. Time, according to size. The trout are done enough when the flesh leaves the bone easily. Trout, Baked (another way). — Wa«h, empty, and dry three or four small trout, split them open, and remove the bones. Lay three or four thin slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a baking-dish, lay the trout upon these, skin uppei-most, and sprinkle a little pepper, 8<ilt, grated nutmeg, and chopped parsley over them. Bake in a quick oven, and serve very hot. Time to bake, haK an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Trout, Baked (M. Tide's recipe).—Having emptied and scaled the trout, put a well-sea- soned stuffing inside, then turn it round with its tail fixed in its mouth. Put the fish in a small quantity of marinade, so that it may not burn in the oven. Baste fi-equently, and let it be made a fine colour. When it is done reduce the liquor in which the trout has been baked, put in a good lump of fresh butter kneaded with flour, with a little essence of anchovies, a few fine capers, salt, and pepper, if the sauce is not sufficiently seasoned ; but be careful when you use anchovies not to use too much salt. Then squeeze the juice of a lemon, drain the fish, send it up to table with the sauce under it, but without covering the fish. Trout, Boiled.—Clean, empty, and dry the fish, and put them into fast-boiling water, to each quart of which a dessert-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar have been added. Eemove the scum as it rises, and boil the fish until the eyes start. Drain it, and lift it out carefully not to break the skin, serve on a hot napkin or fish-paper, and gamish ■\\dth parsley or lemon. Send melted butter, shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, or Dutch sauce to table in a tureen. The great angler, Tsaak Walton, recommends that trout should be boiled in a mixture of beer, vinegar, and water, in which the rind of a lemon, and a little rosemarv, thjTiie, winter savory, and horseradish had been boiled. Time, a trout weighing one pound, from t(^n to twelve minutes' boiling; two pounds, fifteen minutes; three pounds, twenty minutes. Trout, Boiled Plain (^I- T'de's recipe) —After having emptied, scaled, and wa.shed the fish, have some boiling water rciu which put the trout with a good handf ul oi sjilt only, but no vinegar, as it spoils the colour of the' fish. Whon it is done, dram it well, and serve it up on a clean cloth garnished with parsley. Send up lobster sauce separately in a