( 67? ) PIN its juice, and a dessert-spoonful of water, and lot it simmer very gently until tender; then add foui- ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, and boil gently until tho sauce looks bright and clear. Before sending to table stir into it a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. A superior sauce, and one which will keep for some time, may be made as follows :—Put a pound of the minced flesh of a pine-apple into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of cold water. Let it simmer gently until tender; strain the juice, and mix with it a pound of refined loaf-sugar broken small. Let it heat until the sugar is dissolved, then boil it over a moderate fire. If it is not wanted immediately, pour it into a jar, and cover like jam. Time to boil the juice -svith the sugar, a quarter of an hour. Proi)able cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. 6d. to 2s. each. Pine-apple to Cut for Serving.— Pare a pine-apple so that the fruit shall be wasted as little as possible, and in order to do this notch it in and out, and carefully remove all the specks or eyes. Pick the fruit from the core with a silver fork in pieces as large as a bean, and place the dish which contains it on ice until it is wanted. Sugar may be strewed over the fruit or not. It draws out the juice, which is not always desired. Pine-apple Water (a refreshing summer beverage).—Take a moderate-sized pine-apple ; pare and slice it, and pound it to a pulp in a mortar. Put this into a bowl with the strained juice of a large fresh lemon, and pour over it a pint of boiling sjTup made in the proportion of one pound of sugar to a pint of water. Cover the jug which contains the liquid, and leave it in a cool place for two hours or more. Strain through .a napkin, put two pints of cold spring water with it, and serve. Probable cost, pine- apples, Is. 6d. to 2s. Sufficient for three pints of pine-apple water. Pine-apple Water Ice.—Take one or two pine-apples which are perfectly sound and fully ripe. Pare them, and pick out the specks. Grate the flesh on a coarse grater, and press the pulp through a colander. To a pint of pulp add half a pint of water and eight ounces of sugar, with the white of a fresh egg beaten to a firm froth. Put in the egg in smaU quantities at a time, and beat the mixture for some minutes. Freeze in the usual way. Or, take half a pound of the flesh of a ripe pine-apple. Pound in a mortar, then mix with it the strained juice of a fresh lemon, a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water. Strain through a napkin, and freeze in tho usual way. Probable cost, pine-applcs, Is. 6d. to 2s. each. _ Pink Cream.—Take a pint and a half of npo red currants. Strip thorn from the stalks, and put them into an earthen jar with a closely- fitting lid. Set this in a pan of boiling water, and boil gently until tho juice flows freely. Strain the juice through a fine sieve, and sweeten to taste with powdered Avhite sugar. Stir into b:ilf a i)int of jiiicf; a pint of cream, and beat the niixtun; until it begins to thicken. Servo in a glass dish. If liked, the juice of a loiuon may ha added to the cream. Time to boil the T currants, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 2i Sufficient for five or six persons. Pink Icing.—Put the whites of two eggs into a bowl and break them lightly. Mix in gradually icing sugar to make a stiffish paste, and mix but do not work the icing. Add now and then three or four drops of lemon-juice and a drop of cochineal until the mixture looks thick, smooth, shiny, and as deeply coloured as is desired. The icing should be spread fuUy a quarter of an inch thick over the cake, or whatever it is used for, and should be placed in a cool oven until dry. If the eggs are beaten to a firm froth, the icing will not dry so easily. Time to mix the paste, till it is stiff. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Pink Pancakes.—Take a moderate-sized boiled beet-root; pare off the dark outer skin, and cut the root into slices, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth pulp. Make a batter by mixing two table-spoonfuls of flour with half a pint of milk and five well-beaten eggs. Add half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg and a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and when these ingredients are weU mixed beat the pulp of the beet-root into the batter. Fry the pan- cakes as quickly as possible, and serve them rolled, with a little bright coloured jam inside each one. Time, four or five minutes to fry the pancakes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pink Sauce for Meat or Fish.—Take a large, wide-mouthed bottle, and put into it a quarter of a pint of port, a pint of vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, two dessert- spoonfuls of anchovy liquor, two cloves of garlic, or, if preferred, three shallots, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and half a quarter of an ounce of cochineal. Stir the mixture briskly for a minute or two, then cork it, and leave it in a cool place for two days, stirring it up every now and then. Strain through a tamis, and keep the sauce in srhall bottles closely corked until wanted; this sauce may be used as a relish for cold meat, or to flavour fish sauces. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter. Pink Sugar for Ornamenting Sweet Dishes.—Crush the sugar either coarsely or to a powder, whichever is required. Place two or three drops of prepared cochineal in the palm of the hand, and rub the sugar in with it until it is sufficiently coloured, when it is ready for use. Pintail, or Sea Pheasant. — This bird, though highly esteemed where it is known, is not common. It is considered best when roasted, and is cooked like an ordinary pheasant, great care being taken to baste it constantly. It should be sent to table with good brown gravy, and a piquant sauce. It will of itself yield a good gravy if it is taken down when it has been before the fire for about twenty-five minutes, dished, laid in front of the firo for a few minutes, and then served imme- diately. Time to roast, about haJf an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, sia-])hea8antH being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for thi'ee or four persons.