( 961 ) TAR TEA brush and splash the sugar very gently with water until it is cUssolved. Put the tart again into the oven for five minutes. Tarts, Paste for.-Take a pound and a half of nour, a pound and a quarter ot fresh butter, a large pinch of salt, four yo^lvS e^'s, and half a glassful of water. Mix this paste as lightly as possible without hancUing it too much; spread it over the dresser with a rollin<--pin, and then fold it in three, as you do puff paste; roll it out, and fold it up again. Do this four times running: this is what is called four-turned. Use this paste either tor tourte of entrees, for pies of meat or fruit, or when it may be wanted. {See also Puff Paste.) tain the same organic constituents, although in different proportions :— 100 parts of Tea con- tain 15 18 3 a trace 26-25 0-75 4 20 5 100 parts of Cotfeo contain 12 1-75 13 9 . 6.5 a trace 4 0-002 12 35 6-7 THE TEA PLANT. ipea.—Doctors disagree as to whether the constant use of tea is beneficial or otherwise in its effects upon the human frame. There can be little doubt, however, that when partaken of too freely it acts injuriously upon the nervous system; yet, when taken in moderation, it is exhilarating, strengthening, and refreshing. Tastes differ as to the superiority of the flavour of the different kinds of tea. Some like all black, eome all green, and some a mixture of the two. For mixed tea the usual proportion is four parts of black tea to one of green. Green tea is more exhilarating than black, and it has a tendency to produce excitement and wakeful- ness. When taken \ery strong it is exceedingly pernicious. Amongst the black teas may be mentioned Bohea, Congo, Souchong, Assam, and Pekoe. Amongst the green teas, Twankay, Hyson-skin, Young Hyson, Hyson, Imperial, and Gunpowder. {See Tea, Varieties of.) Some- times two or three kinds of tea are mixed together—a finely-flavoured one with an in- expensive one—and then cheapness can bo combined with superiority of flavour. The following is a favourite and inexpensive mix- ture of black teas :—One pound of Moning Congo, a quarter of a pound of Assam, and a quarter of a pound of Orange Pekoe. Tea and Coffee, Analysis of.—The following analys(!S of tea and coffee are in- teresting, as showing how nearly they con- 2 p Water . Theine . Caseinc . Gum ^ Sugar . ^ Starch . Tannin . _ . Aromatic oil . Fat Fibre Mineral substances Tea Biscuits.—Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter and a largo pinch of salt in a pint of warm milk. Stir this into a pound of flour, and make the paste into a stiff dough by knead- ing it well with a table-spoonful of brewer's yeast. Put the dough into a bowl, cover it with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When quite light, roll it out very thin, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake in a moderate oven. Tea biscuits should be eaten cold, and a little butter or marmalade should be sent to table with them. Time to bake, ten to twenty minutes, according to size. Probable cost for this quantity, 8d. Sufficient for a dish. Tea Cakes {see Queen's Tea Cakes). Tea Cakes, Baker's, To Toast.—Cut the tea cake across into three or four slices, according to thickness. Toast and butter theso on both sides, and lay them one upon another in a hot dish. Cut them into quarters, and serve as hot as possible. They will retain their heat much longer if kept in a covered plate over a basin of boiling water. Tea Cakes, Boyal.—Take the weight of a large egg in fresh butter. Beat it to a cream, and mix with it four ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, four ounces of best flour, a small pinch of salt, and the grated peel of half a lemon. Beat the egg with a little rose or orange-flower water, and with this knead the mixture to a smooth paste. Roll it out, cut it into small rounds, and bake these upon floured tins in a weU-heated oven. Time to bake, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to the size of the cakes. Probable cost, about 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for one or two persons. Tea Cakes, Yorkshire (excellent).— Rub six ounces of butter into two piounds of fine flour; add a pinch of salt, two eggs well beaten, a pint of milk, and an ounce of German yeast. Knead the mixture well, put it into a bowl, cover with a cloth, and set on the hearth to rise. When it is quite light, and the surface has cracked, divide it into ten cakes, and roll these out lightly to the size of a saucer. Let them rise before the fire a few minutes, and bake in a quick oven. They must not be turned over in the oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Tea Cakes, Yorkshire, Plain.—Rub one ounce of butter and one ounce and a half of lard into two pounds of the best flour. Jlix rather less than an ounce of German yeast with