( 1080 ) VEN VEN a handful of crumbs, salt, pepper, and a little hoib seasoning if liked. Mix those ingredients thoroughly, form apple-sized balls; flatten and dip them in egg, uiul crumb thum or dij) thorn in warmed butter, and then fry of a nice pale brown. Venison Collops, Minced.—Minco finely a pound of veuisou taken from the neck or loin, and season pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter in a siiucepan over the fire, stir a dessert-spoonful of fiour into it, and when it is quite smooth add a largo tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. A small onion chopped small, or a particle of garUc, may bo stirred in also when the flavour is liked. Keep beating the paste over the fire till it is lightly browned, then stir in the minced venison, and keep tossing lightly with a fork till it is quite hot. Moisten gradually with half a cupful of stock, and let the collops sim- mer for ten minutes. Ketchup, port, tarragon vinegar, lemon-juice, or basil wine may be added if liked. Probable cost of venison, very imcertain, varying with the supply. Venison Collops, Scotch.—Take as much venison as may be required in slices from the neck or loin. Trim neatly, and put them aside. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, cover either with cold stock or water, and let them stew gently tUl the gravy be- comes strong and good. Strain it, thicken with brown thickening, clear it from fat, and season with salt, cayeime, and a small pinch of grated nutmeg. Flavour with strained lemon- juice and a glassful of claret, to which may be added, if liked, a few drops of tarragon, chilli, or shallot vinegar. Fry the collops in butter, dish them, and pour the gravy over. By way of variety, vinegar and a small lump of sugar may be stirred into the gravy in the dish, and red-currant jeUy dissolved in the gravy .in the tureen. Time, about two hours to draw the gravy from the bones. Probable cost of venison, very imcertain. Venison Cutlets. Broiled.—Cut the cutlets an inch thick from a fine, weU-hung neck of venison. Trim them neatly without depriving them of their fat. Pepper and salt them, and lay them upon the bars of a gridiron over a clear, gentle fire. Turn them every two minutes to keep in the gravy. Serve on a very hot dish with a small slice of butter under each. Send stewed mushrooms and baked pota- toes to table with the chops. Time to broil the cutlets, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, very imcertain. Venison Cutlets, Stewed.—Take the cutlets from the neck an inch thick. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stcwpan, put in the cutlets, and let them remain until they are lightly and equally browned on both sides. Pour over them as much good beef stock as will barely cover them, and add half a tumbler- ful of port or claret, a table-spoonful of vinegar, n small spoonful of brown thickening, and a little pei)pcr and salt. Stew the cutlets gently till tender, and skim and strain the gravj\ . Put the cutlets on a dish, pour the gravy over and servo very hot. Time to stew the cutlets^ twenty minutes. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison, Pried.—Cut the meat into sUces, and make gravy of the bones. Fry it of a light brown, and keep it hot before the fire. Put butter rolled in flour into the pan, and ke<:'p stirring it till thick and brown. I'ut in some finely powdered sugar, the gravy made of the bones, and some red wine—let it be the thick- ness of cream—squeeze in a lemon; warm the venison in it, put it in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Omit the sugar if you choose, and send cuiTant jelly to table with it in a glass. Venison Fry.—Cleanse the fry, and cut it into neiit slices about half an inch thick. Season these with pepper and salt, dredge fiour upon them, and frj- in hot fat till they arc brightly browned and sufficiently cooked. Drain them, put them round a hot dish, place fried parsley in the centre, and send highly- seasoned brown gravy to table in a tureen. Red-currant jelly may be served as an accom- paniment. Venison fry consists of the liver, heart, skirts, melt, &c. Probable cost, very imcertain. Venison, Gravy for.—A strong, unfla- voured gravy, seasoned with salt only, is generally served with venison. It may be made as follows:—Take the trimmings of the venison, or, failing these, a pound or two of the scrag end of a neck of mutton cut into chops. Fry these till they are brightly browned on both sides. Fovlt over them a quart of boiling water, and let the gravy simmer gently till it is reduced one-half. Skim as required, and season with salt. Let it get cold, free it entirely from fat, and serve in a tureen. The meat on the mutton bones may be potted and used as a breakfast relish. For sauces to serve with venison, see Venison, Sauces for. Pro- bable cost, very imcertain. Venison, Gravy for (another way).— Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton, half a pound of liver, the venison trimmings, and a kidney. Cut the meat into small pieces, and fry these in butter till they are shghtly browned. Put them into a saucepan, pour the contents of the frying-pan over them, and add a pint and a half of water and a few pepper- corns. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew its contents gently till the gra^T is strong and good. Stir occasionally. Strain it into a bowl, and when cold entirely remove the fat. Before serving, boil it, season with salt, add a table-spoonful of port and a Uttle sugar brown- ing, and send the gra\y to table in a tureen. Strong, unflavoured gravy is usually served with venison, together with venison sauce. If, however, it is preferred that the gravy should be slightly flavoured, then stew a sliced carrot, a minced shaUot, a clove and a bay- leaf with the other ingredients. hen the liver and k-idney cannot be procured, tliree or four mutton chops from the loin may be used instead. The meat mav afterwards be potted or made into rissoles. ' Time to stew the gravj-, about three hours.