RUS RUS ( 782 ) them 80 oloso together that no spaco remains between; till the centre with a whipptnl cream or a fromago; tum the charlotte out into a dish, and send at once to table. It should not be kept long unless on ice. Russian Charlotto with Apples.— Take souie biscuits a la cuillero {nee Uie pre- ceding recipe). Line a form witli them, placing them as close as possible, so tliat they may form a comploto case. Peel and slice a dozen apphjs, and stew them in a little butter. Fill the form with the api)le8, leaving a space in the centre. Fill this space with a mannalado of apricots, cherries, or quinces. Tum out the charlotte on a dish, and serve cold. Russian Jelly. —Take the remains of jelly of any kind, put it in a bowl, and set it in a pan of hot water until dissolved. Put the basin upon ice, and whisk the jelly briskly till it begins to stiffen and form a creamy froth, then pour it at once into a mould set in ice. When it is fii-m turn it out. \VTien convenient, two or three kinds of jelly appropriately fla- voured can be mixed together. Russian niode of Preserving Fruit. —A method of preserving fruit, in extensive use in Russia, consists in moistening quicklime with water containing a little creosote, so as to cause it to fall into powder. The fruit is packed in a wooden box, the bottom of which is filled in to the depth of an inch with the lime. The stratum is covered with a sheet of paper, and the fruit laid upon this, each piece by it- self, so that no one touches another. A sheet of paper is placed on the top of this layer of fruit and then a second layer of lime is sifted in. In this wajf lime, paper, and fruit alternately tiU the box is fiUed. The comers are then filled with finely-powdered charcoal. By covering the box with a tightly-fitting top, the fruit can, it is said, be kept fresh for at least a year. Russian Polony.—Russian polony should be made of hard old Belfast hams, which are easily procured, and from beef, which is to be prepared in the following manner:—Take a small round, or part of a large one, of ox beef (for the udder of the cow cannot be used here); rub it all over with common salt, and scatter more under and over it; so let it lie four days. Then wipe it, and put it into the following pickle, in a deep pan :— Water that has boiled . 1 gallon Common salt . . . 2 lbs. Saltpetre . . . .2 ounces Bay-salt . . . .2 lbs. Let it lie fourteen days more covered with pickle. Take it out and wipe it well; tie string round it, and hang it to smoke for twenty days in a powerful smoke, turning it often ; and when taken from the chimney hang it in a warm dry room three weeks longer to harden. Tako then an equal weight of ham and beef, and cut off all the hard fat, which put aside. Cut up the meat in small pieces, and leave no skinny or fibrous parts in it. Beat each separately in a mortar until verj' fine, and work it into a consistence; being completely mixed, add finely-ground black pepper, and then cut your hard fat up into small squares the eizo of a pea, and mix these generally and iqually throughout the mass. Dissolve gum-dragon so that it is very thick, ; and work it aiuongst the meat until the pnuu'i has l)ecome just soft enough to stuff the skins, which must bo the largest you can get, and taken from large oxen. Great care must be taken in filling them, so tliat the meat may soon bo united into a solid mass, which can only be effected by force ; the skins must then bo well tied up, and hung to dry; they muiit be smoked for a fortnight, and kept three months in a dry closet. Russian Salad.—Cut some carrots, tur- nips, parsnips, and beetroot into strips with a scoop. Add, if liked, other vegetables, such as asparagus, peas, French beans, gherkins, capers, scraped horseradish, &c. &c. Put the vegetables in a salad-dish in layers, season each layer with mayonnaise or Tartar sauce, and gradually di- minish the size of the layers, tiU the salad comes to a point. Ornament Avith a border of aspic jelly, picked prawns, olives, or gherkins, and gamish the surface with small balls of caviare. Russian Sauce.—Dissolve a slice of butter in a small saucepan, and add two ounces of lean undressed ham cut into dice, four minced shal- lots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a spoonful of chopped parsley, two table-spoonfuls of scraped horseradish^ a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a wine-glassful of vinegar, and the same of light wine. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents steam gently for a.quarter of an hour. Add half a pint of good white sauce and the yolks of four eggs. Stir the sauce over the fire tiU it begins to thicken, and strain through a sieve for use. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, and care must be taken not to put them into it until partially cooled. Time, about forty minutes to prepare the sauce. Russian Sauce (another way).— Take four spoonfuls of grated horseradish; two tea- spoonfuls of made mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and as much vine- gar as will just cover the ingredients. This is a good sauce for all kinds of cold meat, and when added to melted butter makes a good fish sauce. Russian Soup.—Take about two quarts of good broAvn soup nicely flavoured, and pour this, when ready for serving, into the tureen over three ounces of dressed ham finely shred and some small sausages already fried and drained thoroughly from fat. The soup may be made as follows :—Chop two Spanish onions, and mix with them the whole heart of a cabbage finely shred. Fry the mixture in a little butter till the vegetables are lightly browned, dredge two ounces of flour over them, and moisten the paste with about three pints of good stock. Add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; let the soup boil once, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer for half an hour or more, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Add a glassful "of light wine and a spoonful of coarsoly-shrod tarragon or chervil, and the soup will "be ready for serving. Time, about an liour. Sufficient "for six or eight persons.