BAB ( 695 ) BAB with hot toast either dry or buttered. To prepia-o this tlish properly, a cheese-toaster contaiiiinji: a reservoir for hot water should be used. When this is not at hand the cheese may be dissolved in a saucepan. Time, a few minutes. Babbit, Smothered with Onions.— Skin and empty a rabbit, and remove the eyes. Dr\' it well, and truss it firmly. Put ten or twelve large onions into a saucepan with three quarts of water. When this boils, put in the rabbit, and let all simmer gently together until both rabbit and onions are sufficiently dressed. Take out the onions, mince them, and put them into a clean saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a spoonful of milk, and a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Mix these ingredients thoroughly over a gentle fire to foi-m a puree. Put the rabbit on a hot dish, and remove the skewers ; pour the onion puree over it, and serve very hot. Rabbit smothered with onions is sometimes stuffed with veal force- meat, but this is not common. This dish should always be accompanied with boiled bacon, or boiled pickled pork. Excellent pea soup may be made of the rabbit broth, or if this is not required the rabbit broth will prove a valu- able addition to stock. Time to boil the rabbit, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter, according to the size. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient, one medium-sized rabbit for three or four persons. Babbit Soup.—Skin and empty a fine rabbit, and lay the liver aside. Cut it into joints, flour the pieces, and fry them lightly; put them in a stewpan with the liver and three pints of good stock made from bones, let them simmer as gently as possible for an hour, or until the rabbit is done enough, carefully re- moving the scum as it rises. Take out the rabbit, cut oft" the best of the meat, lay it in a covered dish, and put it in a c«ol place. Bruise the bones, and put them back into the stock, and with them two onions, a shallot, a carrot, a small bunch of parsley, a pinch of thyme, three or four_ outer sticks of celery, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer the broth two hours longer. Take out the liver, rub it till smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, moisten with a little of the liquor, and return it to the soup. Just before sending to table add half a glassful of port and a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Cut the pieces of meat into dice, let them get quite hot without boil- ing, and serve immediately. Time, three hours. Probable cost, lOd. per pint. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit Soup (M. Tide's recipe).—Take the fillets of four rabbits to make an entree, and with the legs and shoulders make the soup as follows:—Put them into warm water to take out the blood; when quite clean put them into a stewpan with a bundle of parsley and a ladle- ful of good broth; put-all this to simmer over a slow fire ; when done through, moisten with some good l)roth. Season to taste, and let it boil for an hour only: if you let it boil too long the 6oup will be brown. Next take the meat out of the broth, drain it, and lot it cool, then pick all the meat from the bones, and put it into the mortar, with four yolks of eggs boiled hard, and the crumb of a roll soaked in a little broth; pound all this very fine ; rub it through a tammy, moisten with the broth, and when done add a pint of double cream that has boiled; mix all together, and serve. Take particular notice that this soup must be very white; sometimes you give it with vermicelli, some- times with pearl barley, sometimes with rice : on all occasions, each of these articles must be done separately in broth, and put into the soup afterwards. If you have abundance of rabbits, you may also use the fillets, as the soup will then be whiter and better. Babbit Soup, Superior. — Skin and empty two rabbits, and let them lie in lukewarm Avater for an hour. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan -with, two quarts of white stock made from veal bones. Let them simmer gently until they are quite tender. Lift them out, and pick all the best meat from the bones. Bruise the latter, and put them back into the broth with two carrots, two onions, three or four sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Let all simmer gently for three hours. At the end of that time, strain the liquor, and let it stand to settle, so that it may be poured off free from sediment. Meantime mince the meat, and pound it till it is perfectly smooth, cover it, and put it aside. Wlien the broth is cold, pour off the clear liquor free from sediment, and boil it. Put the pounded meat into a basin, moisten it very gradually with the warm broth, and rub the paste well with the back of a wooden spoon that it may be free from lumps. Add this thickening to the broth, season pleasantly with additional salt and cayenne, and pass it through a sieve. Put it into a clean saucepan, and when it boils stir into it three-quarters of a pint of cream which has been mixed with a table-spoonful of good arrowroot. Let the soup boil up again, and serve veiy hot. Sippets of toast dipped in cream and fried may be served with the soup. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter to boil the rabbits; three hours to boil the liquor. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for nine or ten persons. Babbit Soup, White.—A small quantity of good rabbit soup may be made with the inferior parts of the rabbit, that ia the head, neck, and shoulders, leaving the best parts, that is the legs and the back, to be stewed, and served as an entree. Divide the rabbit, and soak the part which is to be used for soup in lukewarm water for half an hour. Cut it into small pieces, and put these into a stewpan with as much stock made from bones and water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently until the meat is done enough. Take it up, pick it from the bones, and put these back into the liquor with a carrot, a turnip, aii onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Add a pint and a half of additional stock, and simmer all gently together for two hours. Strain the soup, and leave it to cool. Mince the meat, and