( 640 ) PER has coasod to fonnont, it is to bo drawn off tlio leoa by boring a gimlet-hole at the bottom of the cask, a littlo above the chimb. The liquor as it runs out is to be received in a clean cask, which when fuU is to be bunged, and may be kept for draught. Or, after remaining in tliis aisk for two or three weeks, it may bo drawn oft' and bottled, when it wiU soon get into good order. If the cider bo made in cold weather it will require a longer time to clear; and the same will happen if there had been a very considerable ratio of crabs amongst tho apples. A littlo dissolved isinglass added will soon clear it; but this tends to Hatten. Those, and a variety of minor circumstances can be only learned and provided for by practice.— Donovan. Before bottling cider, examine it, and see whether it is clear and sparkling. If not so, clarify it in the same way as beer, and leave it for a fortnight. The night before you intend to put it into bottles, take the bung out of the cask, and leave it so till the next day. The filled bottles should not be corked down tiU the day after ; if this is done immediately, they will burst by keeping. Use only the best corks. Champagne bottles are the sort usually chosen for cider. It is customary to wire down the corks, and cover them with tin-foil, just like champagne. A few bottled at a time may be laid to ripen in a warm place. Should the cider be wanted for immediate use, or for consump- tion during the cooler months of the year, drop a small piece of loaf sugar into each bottle before corking. Or, which comes to the same thing, cork the bottles two or three hours after they are filled. In summer, or for long keep- ing, this practice, however, is inadmissible. Store the bottled cider in a cool cellar; the quality will greatly improve by age. Cider for bottling should be of good quality, sound and piquant, and at least a twelvemonth old. When out of condition it is unfit for bottling. Mr. Knight, a well-known authority on the subject, states, that in the manufacture of perry the pears are ground and pressed in the same way as apples in the manufacture of cider; but that it is not usual for the reduced pulp to be allowed to remain any length of time with- out being pressed. In Herefordshire, and in the counties in its neighbourhood, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to cor- rect the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another. It is, however, Mr. Knight aUows, more easy to find the required portion of sugar and of astringency in three or four varieties than in one; hence, he supposes, a judicious mixture of fruits affords a prospect of great benefit. The method of fermenting perry is nearly the same as that of fermenting cider. The former, however, does not afford the same indi- cations as the latter by which the proper period of racking-off may be known. "The thick scum that collects on the surface of cider rarely appears in the juice of the pear, and during the time of the suspension of its fermentation the excessive brightness of the former bquor in seldom seen in the latter; but where the fruit has been regularly ripe, its produce will generally become moderately clear and quiet in a few days after it is made, and it should then be drawn olf from its grosser lees. In tho after-management of perry the method is the same as that of cider; but it does not so well boar situations where it is much exposed to change of temperature. In bottle it almost always retains its good qualities, and in that situation it is always advisable to put it, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first succeeding summer. Perry is generally thought inferior to cider. Some hold tliat it resembles champagne more than gooseberry-wine does; and it is said, when of the best quality, to have been occa- sionally sold for cliampagne. Perry and Cider, Wliolesomeiiess of.—Perry should be used in moderation by those liable to stomach and bowel complaints, as it sometimes causes colic, especially if it is anywise acid. Either alone, however, or mixed with equal parts of water, it is, when of good quality, an excellent refreshing summer beve- rage. " Cider," says one writer, " is not so nutritious as malt liquor, but it forms an excel- lent beverage for labouring men in the summer months, its acid assisting materially in quench- ing thirst. Eough Herefordshire cider has been recommended as an antiseptic in cases of low fever." Persian Sherbet (a refreshing summer beverage).—Boil six or eight stalks of green rhubarb and a quarter of a pound of raisins or figs, cut into slices, in three pints of water. When the liquid has boiled gently for half an hour, strain it through muslm, and stir into it as much lemon or orange syrup as is agreeable to the taste, and a few drops of rose water or orange-fiower water. Probable cost, 4d. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Persian Sherbet (another way).—Pick a pound of ripe strawberries, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Put them into a basin, with a fresh lemon, cut into thin slices, and a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and pour over them a quart of cold water. Let them remain for three hours, then stram the liquid through muslin, and squeeze the fruit weU to make it yield as much juice as possible. Mix with the juice a pound of refined loaf sugar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; then strain it again, and place the vessel con- taining the sherbet on ice until it is wanted for use. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for nearly three pints of sherbet. Persian Sherbet, as Sold in the Shops.—Mix two ounces of bicarbonate of soda with two ounces of tartaric acid, and four ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Flavour the mixture with thirty drops of the essence of lemon, and add two or three drops of any sbght perfume. Keep the powder in a closely- stoppered bottle, men wanted for use, mix a tea-spoonful in half a tumbler of water. PetitS Morceaux (for Dessert).—Rub the rind of half a lemon upon four ounces of loaf suRar ; crush it to powder, and mix with it tho white of one egg which has been whisked to a firm froth, and six ounces of sweet almonds, and