POW ( 646 ) POU meat on a dish, pour tho hot gravy over it, ' garnish with toastod sippots, and sorvo very hot. If liked, chilli vinegar can bo substituted for the lemon-juice. The remains of cold poultry may be served in tho same way, but the meat will not bo so succulent as it would bo if it were only partially roasted before it was stewed. Time, varying with tho size and age of the bird. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poultry, Ragout of (another way) .-This is a general recipe, and may bo used to ragout poultry, pigeons, rabbits, &c. Half roast tho thing which is to bo dressed as a ragout. Carve it into joints, as at table, and stew in good stock, with a couple of onions, two dozen corns of allspice and black popper, a few cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and for some things a stick of celery, for others a couple of bay-leaves. Skim the stew, and, keeping the lid quite close, let it simmer for thi-eo-quarters of an hour or more, according to the age and size of the birds. Strain off the gravy, leaving the fowls in the stewpan to keep hot. Take off the cake of fat which will soon form, and thicken the gravy with bro^vn roiix, or butter rolled in browned flour till it is as thick and stiff as pancake batter. Add to this a glass of white wine and the squeeze of a lemon. Dish the fowls, ducks, or rabbits, or whatever your dish may be, and pour the sauce hot over' them. The sauce must be well worked, and ought to be smooth, thick, and well coloured. It may be made without wine. Poultry, Roasted.—Poultry requires to be plucked and drawn carefully before being roasted. It is a good thing for the cook to know how to do this, as geese and ducks may often be bought at less expense unplucked and Tintrussed than when ready for the spit, besides which the feathers, if trimmed and dried in the oven, may be used to make pillows and cushions. Geese and ducks are generally stuffed with sage and onions; turkeys with veal forcemeat or with pork sausage-meat. Poultry, To Make Tender.—"If obliged to dress poultry immediately^ after killing," says the author of a collection of French recipes, "to make it tender, do as foUowB:—Steep it in boiling water, and feather it in the hot water; or before you kill the poultry, be it turkey or goose, make it swallow a spoonful of vinegar. These methods wiU make the poultry as tender as if lolled some days previous to being dressed." Pound Cake. —Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Beat into it a pound of fine sugar pounded and sifted, upon part of which, before it was pounded, the rind of two oranges or lemons has been rubbed, a pound of dried flour, a pinch of salt, eight eggs which have been thoroughly whisked, the whites and volks separately, and a glass of wme, brandy, or rose-water. Beat the mixture for twenty minutes, and pour it into a tin which has boon lined with buttered paper. Bake in a wcll- heatcd though not fierce oven and if possible do not increase the heat untU the cake is baked. Though the cake must be turned about that it may bo equally browned, the oven door must not bo opened oftener than is absolutely necessary; and if tho cake gets too highly coloui-ed before it is done enough, a ijiece of paper should be laid upon it. In order to as- cei-tain wliether it is sufficiently baked, put a skewer to tho bottom of it, and if it comes out dry and clean the cake is done; if moist, it must bo returned at once to the oven. When the cake is done it should be turned out at once, and placed upon its side, or else on a sieve, which has been turned upside down until it is cold, and tho i)aper should not be removed until tho cake is to be used. This cake may be made either larger or smaller by increasing the quantity of the ingredients in their due proportions; and it may be made less rich by using a larger quantity of flour. A pound of picked and dried currants is fre- quently added to the other ingredients, and the flavour may be varied by the addition of candied peel, lemon or orange, blanched and chopped almonds, pistachio kernels, dried cherries, or plums. Time to bake, one hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Poutarg.—This is a kind of dry and pressed caviar. It is prepared with the roes of mullet or tunny, and is much in demand in Italy and the East. It is served as a hors d^ceuvre, cut iato thin slices, and seasoned with oil, pepper, and lemon-juice. Powders.—^In addition to those given be- low, recipes for the following powders will be f oimd under their respective headings:— Almond-dust, Burnt Cukry Anchovy Herbs Baking Horseradish Biscuit Mushrooms Curry (Dr. Kitch- Oyster iaer's Kecipe) Ragout Powder, Baking {see Pastry-powder or Baking-powaer). Powder, Blancmange.—To make this powder, mix one pound of sago meal, fifteen drops of essence of lemon, and twelve grains of mace. Powder, Custard.—Take two pounds of sago meal, half an ounce of powdered turmeric, and half a drachm each of mace, cassia, and bitter-almond powder. Powders, Ginger Beer.—Take one to two drachms of white sugar powdered, twenty- six grains of bicarbonate of soda, six grains of the finest Jamaica ginger powdered, and one drop of essence of lemon. Mix these ingre- dients, and wrap the powder in blue paper. Take thirty-five grains of powdered tartanc acid, or thirty grains of powdered citric acid, and wrap in white paper. To use, dissolve each colour in about half a glassful of water; mix the two, and drink whilst cffervcscmg. Powders, Ginger Beer (another way). —Take sixteen ounces of wliitc sugar powdered, one ounce of tho finest Jamaica ginger, five ounces of bicarbonate of soda, and fifty or sixty drops of essence of lemon. Tilix, and dmde the