SOL ^891 ) SOL H little pepper and salt, and a small pinch of powdcrod spico. IStii- the mixture over the fire for live or six minutes, take it ofl:' the fii'e, beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with the herbs; stir them over the tire again for about half a minute, and spread the forcemeat on a plate to cool. Cleanse and trim a fi-osh thick sole. Remove the bone carefully so as not to deform the fish, and put the cold forcemeat in the cavity thus prepared. Lay the sole in a buttered dish or saucepan, season with salt and pepper, and moisten with a glassful of French white wine or cider {see Sole, Normande)—a wine-glassful ^vill be enough for one sole. Cover the fish with buttered white paper, to prevent its acquiring any colour, and bake until done enough. Watch it carefully whilst it is baking, as if it is too much done it will be good for nothing. Serve on a hot dish. If liked, tomato or shrimp sauce may be sent to table with the fish. Time to bake the sole, according to size. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 6d. for one thick sole. Sole, Baked, with Pine Herbs.—Take a thick sole, perfectly fresh. Cleanse, scale, and skin it, and carefully remove the back-bone without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Mince separately a shallot and a small hand- ful of picked and washed parsley-leaves. Mix these ingredients, and fry them with a tea- spoonful of powdered sweet herbs in two ounces of butter for five or six minutes. Thi-ow in two table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs and the well- beaten yolks of two eggs; shake all quickly together for half a minute, and turn the force- meat out to cool. Put it in the place of the bone inside the fish. Put the fish in a buttered baking-dish, sprinkle pepper and salt over it, dredge flour upon it, place little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and add the juice of a lemon and a quarter of a pint of water. Lay the fish in a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. If additional sauce is required, put an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour into a saucepan. Stir these over the fire for two minutes, then add three-quarters of a pint of water and a little pepper and salt. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, pom- the liquor from the sole into it, and stir into it a table-spoonful of the fried herbs which were used for stufling the fish, made and preserved for the purpose. Take the sauce off the fire, stir into it until dissolved a slice of fresh butter, and it will be ready for use. Time to bake the sole, ten to fiifteen mmutes, according to size. Probable cost. Is. or Is. 6d. for one large sole. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Sole, Baked, with Fine Herbs (another way).—Cleanse, scale, trim, and skin a sole. Lay it in a buttered baking-dish, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle a dozen chopped mushrooms, a finely-minced shallot, and a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley over it. Cover with thick white sauce, and bake in a moderate oven When done enough, lift the sole upon a hot flish with a fish-slice; add the juice of half a lemon to the sauce, and stir into it until dis- solved a slice of frouh butter; pour it over the fash, and serve. Time to bake, according to size. Probable cost, one thick sole, from la. to Is. 6d. Suflicient for three persons. Sole, Baked, with Wine Sauce.— Cleanse, scale, skin, trim, and diy a thick sole, and with a sharp knife make an incision down each side of the back-bone. Season with pepper and salt, put it into a baking-dish thickly buttered, and pour upon it half a jjint of French white wine, or, where economy is a consideration, a pint of cider or perry. Bake the fish in a moderate oven. When done enough, stii' the liquor into half a pint of good melted butter, let it boil up, and add a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley. Take the sauce ofl: the fire, and stir into it until dissolved an ounce of fresh butter. Lift the fish carefully -\vith a fish-slice upon a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. IHme to bake, about fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost, a large sole, Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Sole, Boiled.—The flesh of a boiled sole is tender and delicate, and somewhat resembles tm'bot in flavoui-. It is particularly suited for invalids and convalescents. Choose the fish fresh, and very thick—a sole for boiling should weigh at least two pounds. Scale and clean it, remove the fins and gUls, but do not take off the brown skin. Put it into plenty of cold water with a table-spoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar; let the liquor boil, skim carefully, then draw the pan to the side, and let its contents simmer very gently till the fish is done enough. When this point is reached, the flesh will shrink from the bone. In taking up the sole, set the fish-drainer across the kettle for a minute, then lay the fish on a dish, covered with a warm napkin. The white side must be uppermost. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon, and send melted butter, or shrimp, an- chovy, caper, lobster, or oyster sauce to table in a tureen. Some cooks plunge the fish into boiling water, and boil it gently until done enough, but it is more usual to put it into cold water. Time to boU the fish, according to size. A good-sized fish will take seven or eight minutes from the time the water boils. Sole, Buttered.—Clean, scale, skin, and dry the fish. Rub a tin dish quickly with a clove of garHc freshly cut, lay the soles in it, and dredge flour upon them. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon them, allowing three ounces cf butter for each moderate-sized sole, and bake them until done enough in a moderate oven. Lay them on a hot dish, pour the butter over, and sprinkle on them a tea- spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes, ac- cording to size. Probable cost, soles. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Sole, Choosing of.—Soles should be chosen thick, firm, and fresh, with the under part of a delicate cream-colour. The colour as well as the smell, is a test of freshness. Medium-sized fish are the best. Sole, Cold.—Divide the cold fish into fil- lets. Put a lump of clarified fat or butter into the saucepan. When melted, dredge in half a table-spoonful of flour, and let it fry till brown