QUE QUE ( 677 ) Time, thrco minutes to poach the quenelles. tf.utticieut for a small tureen of soup. Quenelles, Forcemeat for.—QucneUe forcemeat is made by mixing meat, poultry, game, or fish with an equal quantity in bulk ot panada and calf's udder: it must be remem- bered that each ingredient must be pounded and passed through a sieve by itself, and after- wai-ds all must be pounded together, and to- gether passed through the sieve. The prepara- tion of the udder is a troublesome and tedious process, besides which the udder cannot always be procured. Therefore fresh butter is fre- quently substituted for it; and when this is the case the following jiroportions may be followed: they will be found to make good forcemeat, whether meat, poultrv, game, or fish is used :— Take half a pound of meat properly prepared, a quarter of a pound of panada (see Panada), and three ounces of fresh butter. Pound these together, with a Uttle salt, cayenne, and mace, if the ])anada is not already seasoned. A little anchovy may be added for fish quenelles, lilix in gi-adually a table-spoonful of good white sauce, and the yolks of two and the white of one egg. Test the forcemeat as directed in the preceding recipes (see Quenelles, &c.), and, if required, add a little more seasoning or the yolk of another egg: keep the preparation in a cool place or upon ice until it is wanted. It wiU keep for a day or two. Quenelles, Forcemeat for (another way).—See Forcemeat for Quenelles. Quenelles, German.—Various recipes are given in this book for the German klossc, which are a kind of quenelles. They are made both sweet and savoury. When sweet, they are served with sugar and sauce ; when savoury, they are either served in soups or as a garnish for dishes, or piled high on a dish with vege- tables. The following are made with flour, and may either be used as a garnish, served with vegetables, or, after being poached, may be dipped into clarified butter, and aftei'wards into egg and bread-crumbs, and fried tUl they are lightly browned, then drained, and served hot on a neatly-folded napkin:—Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan, with three small cupf uls of milk. "S^'Tien the liquor rises in the pan, stir six ounces of flour quickly into it, add a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and stir the paste briskly till it leaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon. Turn it out, and add gradually throe whole eggs and a little grated parmesan. Mould the quenelles in the usual way, and let them simmer gently until they are done through. The water or gra\y in which these quenelles are poached should not be allowed to boil at all, or the balls will break. Time to simmer, according to size. Probable cost, lOd. for this quantity. Quenelles, Lobster (for Fish Soups).— Takf! the meat, pith, coral, and spawn of a small hen lobster, and pound it to a paste. Mix with it two tablo-spoonfuls of finoly-gratod broad-crumbs and three ounces of butter. Season the forcemeat with a tea-spoonful of anchovy, a little salt, nutmeg, and cayenne, and moisten with the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Test a little piece, to be suro that it is properly seasoned and fiim, and if necessary, add the yolk of another egg. ]\Iould the forcemeat into small quenelles, and brown these in hot fat, or poach them in boiling water. They may be served with fish, soup, or, with good gravy poured over them, as a breakfast or supper dish. Time to fry, according to size. Probable cost of lobster, Is. to 2c. Quenelles, Moulding of.— Take a spoon of the size it is wished the quenelles should be, fill it with the forcemeat, and smooth the surface with a knife which has been dipped in hot water. Dip another spoon of the same size into hot water, and with it slip the meat out of the first spoon, put it into a buttered dish, and proceed with another quenelle. When as many are made as are required, slip the balls from the dish into a saucepan of water lightly salted, and lot them boil until firm. Quenelles of Cod, Salmon, &c.— Take the skin from a thick slice of salmon or cod, scrape the flesh with a spoon, and rub it through a wire sieve upon a dish. Pound six ounces of the fish thus prepared, with three ounces of butter, and four ounces of panada; season with salt and cayenne, and then add, gradually, one whole egg, and the yolks of two others. Pound the mixture again, and put it on ice or in a cool place till it is wanted. Any kind of fish forcemeat may be made in the same way. Quenelles of Game.—Take the remains of cold game or poultrj^ carefully remove the skin, bone, and sinew, then mince and pound the meat, and prepare the quenelles according to the recipe ah-eady given for quenelle forcemeat. If this method is con- sidered too troublesome, adopt the following:— IMince a poimd of the meat finely, and pound it in a mortar, with three oimces of butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and six or eight button mushrooms chopped small. Soak the crumb of a French roll in gravy, and squeeze the moistiire from it. Put it into a stewpan with as much gra^^ as it will absorb, and stir it over a clear fire till it forms a smooth mass and leaves the side of the saucepan with the spoon. Mix with it the unbeaten yolk of an egg, and set it aside to cool, then pound it with the other ingredients till all are thoroughly blended. Leave the preparation in a cool place or on ice for an hour or two, mould it into baUs, dip these in egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain on blotting-paper, and serve on a hot dish, with good brown sauce or mushroom sauce poured over theto. Time to fry, about ten minutes. Quenelles of Game (another way).— Pick the meat from the remains of cold game, and carefully remove the skin, bone, and sinew. Cut it small, and put half a pound of it into a mortar, with a tea-spocnful of flour, an ounce of butter, half an ounce of fat bacon, and a little salt, pepper, and gxatcd nutmeg. Pound the mixtm-e to a smooth paste, and bind it together Avith the unbeaten yoUc of an egg. Mould into balls in the usual way, nnd ])f)il