( 1038 ) VEA VEA a saute-pan. Take them up, put them ou a dish, and fry the voal in the fat \vhich has come from the bacon. When it is nicely browned on both sides, place it neatly on a dish, and arrange the bacon round it. Pour the fat out of the pan, and dissolve a small slice of butter in it. Mix a little tloui- smoothly with this, and moisten gradually with a little stock or "water. Lot it boil till smooth, add salt and pepper, and pour it round the veal in the dish. Serve very hot. Time to fry the meat, about twenty minutes. No. 2. Cut the collops as before. Rub them quickly over with a freshly- cut shallot, and sprinkle a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg upon them. Dip them in egg and bread-crumb, or in floui-, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browTied on both aides. Drain them, and put them in a saucepan, pour over them as much stock as will cover them, add a small roll of lemon-rind, a blade of mace, half a dozen pep- percorns, and an onion, and let them simmer gently till done enough. Put them on a hot dish, strain the gravy upon them, and serve. Time to simmer the veal, half an hour. No. 3. Divide the veal into slices as before, and take an equal number of thin rashers of bacon of the same shape and size. Lay the bacon on the veal, cover with a thin layer of veal force- meat, sprinkle a little cayenne upon this, and roll up the collops tightly. Skewer each one firmly. Melt a little butter in a stewpan, put in the rolls and turn them about till they are equally and lightly browned. Put them on a hot dish before the fire. Pour off the fat in which they were fried, and dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the pan. Mix a little flour smoothly with it, and add as much stock or water as will make the sauce of the consistency of cream, together Avith a little salt, pepper, pounded mace, and a small piece of lemon-rind for seasoning. Simmer the rolls gently in the sauce for an hour and a half. When serving garnish with sprigs of cauliflower. Probable cost, veal, Is. per pound. Veal Collops, Minced (made with cold meat).—Take the remains of cold dressed veal. With a pound and a half of veal, freed from gkin and gristle, mix half a pound of lean ham or tongue. Cut the meat into small pieces, mince finely, and season with a pinch of cayenne, half a small nutmeg grated, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a tea-spoon- ful of mixed mustard, the grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, and a few drops of anchovy. Moisten the mixture with a slice of fresh butter clarified, and a spoonful or two of strong stock, and let it form a stiff paste Make this into neat round collops, brush each one with clarified butter, dredge flour upon it, then dip it in egg and seasoned bread-crumbs : repeat this operation twice. Put the collops in a baking-dish. Place a small piece ol outter upon each, and bake in a quick oven. When lightly browned, serve them in a circle on a hot dish with cold tartar sauce in the centre {see Tartar Sauce). Time to bake the collops, a quarter of an hour. Veal Collops, Scotch—No. i. Cut the veal into small round collops half an inch thick and about three inches across. Beat them with a cutlet-bat to flatten them, and sprinkle upon them salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg, or if i)refcrred dip tlieni in egg and seahouod bread-crumbs. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan over a gentle fire. Fry the col- lops in this till they are equally and hglitly browned. Drain them, lift them into a hot dish, and pour over them a little good brown sauce seasoned rather highly, and flavoured with lemon-juice. Serve very hot with thin slices of bacon round the dish. Time to fry the collops, about four minutes. No. 2. Fry the collops as above. Lift them upon a hot dish before the fire. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the saucepan, and as it melts mix a taljle- spoonful of flour smoothly with it. Stir it for two or three minutes, then add gradually ajj much stock made from bones as will make the sauce of the consistency of cream. Put in also an anchovy and half a dozen button mushi'oomB chopped small. Let the sauce simmer for ten minutes, then add a little salt and white pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the fried collops. Let them simmer \vithout boiling for ten or fifteen minutes, and seiwe them in a hot dish with the gravy poured over, and toasted bacon round them. Time, four minutes to fry the coUops, ten minutes to sinuner them in the gravy. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Veal Cones.—Mince the veal with a little ham or tongue, and form it into a paste as for Veal Collops, ]\Iinced. li liked, this paste may be moistened with cream instead of stock. Form it into cones about three inches high. Brush these over with beaten egg, dredge bread-crumbs thickly upon them, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned, or bake them in a brisk oven. Put a layer of fried bread-crumbs in a dish, place the cones upon them, and send tartar sauce, or if pre- ferred brown sauce, to table with them. Veal Consomme for Making White Sauces.—Rub the inside of a bright saucepan wdth a coarse towel briskly for a minute or two. Heat it a little, and rub it with butter. Lay in it two or three sUces of lean ham or bacon, then add two pounds of the neck or knuckle of veal cut into pieces about four inches square. Pour upon it half a pint of stock made from bones. Place it on a brisk fire for about twenty minutes, or till the veal is very lightly browned. Prohe it in several places with the point of a knife till the juice flows freely. Put it again on the fire till the gravy begins to thicken without being at all coloured. Turn it over once or twice, pour upon it boiling stock made from bones in the proportion of a pint and a half of stock to a pound of meat. Let the Uquor boil, throw in a httle salt, and sk-im it well, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer the gravy veiy gently for about two hours. Strain it into a bowl, and when cold remove the fat from the surface. An onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or throe sticks of colerv, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a blade of mace should be simmered with the gniyy to flavour it. A few button mushrooms will greatly improve it, but they may be omitted. The bonds of poultry may, if likod, be pmo-