SAL ( 818) SAI. and there upon «ach scallop. Put them in a hot ovon, and lot thorn remain until the surface is hrightly browned. If scallop-sholls are not at hand, small dishes may be used instead. Time, one hour and a quarter to bake the scjiUops. Salsify, Stewed.—Scrape and wash the roots, and cut them into round slices. Boil thorn in as much water as will barely cover them, and wlien they are tender hft them out with a slice, and pour away all but a quarter of a pint of the liquor. Thicken this with flour and butter, stir half a cupful of cream into it, and season with pepper and salt. Let it sim- mer gently for a few minutes. Put the salsify into a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Time, one hour. Salsifies with Velout6.—Prepare as in the preceding recipe. Only take note that all sauces sent up with vegetables should be refined and thickened with fresh butter. Never forget to add salt and a little cayenne. Salt Butter, Choosing.—When you choose salt butter, taste a piece of the outside next the tub: if that is good and free from rankness, you may be certain the middle is; but the centre is often excellent when the sides are half spoilt; and those who sell it, knowing this, often give you to taste out of the middle. Salt Butter made Fresh. — Put a pound of salt butter in a wooden bowl kept very clean for the purpose, only with a quart of water, and work it well, either with your hand or a wooden spoon, for twenty minutes; then pour away the water, and wash it well in seven or eight different waters. Add a very little fine salt, and make it into pats. Salt Butter, To Make.—The common method of preserving butter is by salting it more or less. Salt is thoroughly worked into the butter, in the proportion of one or two ounces to the pound, according as the butter is required to be kept for a shorter or longer time. Dr. Anderson, in his "Recreations," re- commends another method of curing butter, by which, he says, with ordinary care, it may be kept for years in this climate, or carried to the East Indies, if packed so as not to melt. " Mix two parts of the best salt, one of sugar, and one of saltpetre, and beat them into a fine powder: one ounce of this preparation is suf- ficient for a pound of butter. This should be thoroughly mixed with the butter as soon as it is separated from the whey, and it should then be put into a clean cask. It should be packed very well down, to exclude the air thoroughly; the top should be covered with a sprinkling of salt, and melted butter poured over it to fill up every crevice before the cover is fixed down. Butter cured in this manner does not taste well till it has stood at least a fortnight after being salted ; but after that time it has a rich marrowy taste that no other butter ever acquires, and tastes so little salt that one would imagine it would not keep." Dr. Anderson had seen it perfectly sound when two years old in this climate. Salt, Common, Wholesomeness of. —So far as the health and vigour of the body are concerned, tliis is an article of the firbt importance. All animals require salt. It facili- tates the absorption of water into the systcim. and being a compound of chlorine and sodium, it seems to supply to the body a certain quantity of chlorine essential to the proper performantM) of some of the vital processes. It has a stimu- lant action upon the throat, guUct, and stomach, thereby promoting the secretion of saliva and of the gastric juice, and in this way facilitating digestion. To the digestive functions it is a natural and necessary stimulant, and the daily use of salt conduces much to the preservation of health and strength. Dr. Lankester, in his work " On Food," gives some curious informa- tion regarding the effects of this much-used condiment. " Let us," he observes, " inquire a little into the probable use of salt in our sys- tem. If we take a vessel and divide it into two parts by an animal membrane, such as exists in our own bodies, and then put salt and water on one side and spring water on the other side, so that they may both stand at the same level, in the course of time we shall find that the spring water will go down and the salt water wiL rise and flow over. The pure water, in fact, passes through the membrane, but the salt water will not. Now, this is precisely the relation of the blood to the membranes of the stomach. It is a solution of salt; and if we place in our stomachs pure water, it will pass through the membranes of the stomach just in the same way that it passes through the membrane in the vessel. This, then, appears to be one of the important functions performed by salt. It facilitates the absorption of water into the sys- tem. This wUl also account for the thirst pro- duced by taking excessive quantities of salt or salted food of any kind. ' 'Another action of salt to which physiologists have attached importance is, that it suppUes to the system a certain quantity of chlorine, which is necessary to the perfection of some of the vital processes. Thus, during digestion, a fluid is thrown out of the stomach called gastric juice. This fluid contains free hydrochloric acid, and the chlorine of this compound could be only furnished by the salt taken with the food. " Then salt appears to facilitate certain changes in the system which are beneficial to health, but which are diflicult to explain exactly. The nature of these changes is indicated by such an experiment as the following:—A num- ber of oxen were taken by a great French chemist and experimentalist; he fed one set of them with salt, and another set of the same weight without salt. For a short time there appeared no difference, but at the end of a month the cattle that had the salt were sleek and well-favoured, while the others had rough coats and looked less comfortable; and so it went on for two years, and at the end of that time there was no doubt that the healthier animals were those which had the salt. Then- seemed to bo some improvement in the quality of the blood going on by the action of the salt. The practice of placing pieces of rock-salt in meadows for horses, cows, and sheep to lick, is quite common in tuia country. It is also well