POTT ( 644 ) potr although tho domosticjition of some of our poul- try birds must bo roforrod to u vory ourly date. Among tho Anfiii(/(c Homo progroaa has rocontly bcon made in tho domestication of new kinds ; and a beginning may even bo said to have been made as to somo additional gallinaceous birds." Poultry a la Tartare.—Divide tho remains of a turkey capon or any poultry into neat joints, dip those in egg and bread-crumbs, tlien into clarified butter, then into egg and bread-crumbs again, and sot them aside until wanted. Put tho yolk of an egg into a bowl, and beat it for two or three minutes. Add a tablo-spoonfiil of dry mustard, a littlo popper and salt, and a small pinch of cayenne, and, vory gradually, eight tablo-spoonfuls of salad- oil. Tho oil should bo put in first in drops and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, beating well between each addition. Stir in a tea-spoon- ful of vinegar, and then more oil and vine- gar in the same proportion until the sauce is as thick as custard. Taste it, and add a larger proportion of vinegar if liked, but this will make the sauce thinner, which is not de- sirable. Add three shallots finely minced, a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, and five or six drops of the essence of an- chovies. Pour this cold sauce upon a dish. lU-oil the pieces of chicken over a clear fire tiU they are brightly browned, lay them upon tho sauce, and garnish the dish with finely-minced pickled gherkins. A fresh chicken may be cut into neat joints and served in this way, and if young, will be excellent. It should be seasoned, dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, sprinkled with clarified butter, dipped into egg and bread-crumbs again, and broUed over a clear fire for twenty-five minutes or half an hour. Time to broil the chicken, ten minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold chicken. Is. 4d. Poultry, Aspic {see Aspic Game or Poultry). Poultry, Boiled, Remarks on. —In picking, be careful-not tj break the skin; in I Ira wing, not to break tho gall-bladder. Let the fowls hang from two to five days, for the most diilicate" fowl will be tough and thready if too soon dressed. When to be used, draw, singe without blackening, and wash thoroughly, passing a stream of water again and again through the inside. Boiled fowls must be very neatly trussed, as they have small aid from skewers; and nothing is more indecorous than to see unfortunates on a dinner-table, " whose dying limbs no decent hands composed." Put them on ^vith plenty of water, a littlo warmed, and in a floured cloth if you like. Ha^^ng, as usual, skimmed thorn vory carefully, simmer by the side of the fire from thirty-five minutes to an hour and a hrilf, according to the mv.c of the fowl. A small turcon of very good barley or rice broth, seasoned with shred parsley and young onions, may be added at the same time, d a .s/inn/i: or small cutlets of neck-mutton be added; which last may be frugally served in tho broth. Some good cooks put fresh 8\iet and slices of peeled lemon to boil with fowls, if loan, but larding is better; while legged fowls are most worthy of attention, whether for eating or ajjpeurancc. Poultry, Boning of.— It is scarcely likely that written iuHtructions only will enable any one to perform this diflicult operation; and far moro would be leanit by watcliing a com- petent person do tho work once than by read- ing whole pages about it. Nevertheless, the knowledge how to bone meat and poultry in a very desirable kind of knowledge to attain, and ono which can only be perfected by practice. The thing to aim at is to loosen the flesh with- out injuring the skin, and this can be done only by working the knife close to the bone. A short, sharjj-pointed knife is the most suitable for the purpose. It is easiest to divide the bii'd into joints, and remove the bone from each joint separately. If this will not do, the bird may be split open right down the back, and the bones cut out afterwards, and this jilan answers excellently for galantines and dishes of a similar description. The most diflicult operation of all is to bone the bird without opening it. Poul- terers and butchers are generally very pleased when desired to do this work for their cus- tomers. Poultry, Boudins, or French Pud- dings, of.—Half roast the bird. Take ofl; the skin, draw out the siniews, and mince and pound the flesh till it is quite smooth. IMix with it its bulk in baked potatoes, dry and floury, season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and add as much butter as there was meat. Pound the forcemeat between every addition, then mix in gradually three whole eggs and the yolks of two others, together with one or two table-spoonfuls of white sauce, chopped mushrooms, or dressed onions, but take care that the mixture is not too moist. To ascertain this, make up a small ball, drop it into boUing water, and poach it for five minutes. If it wants firmness, put another egg to it; if it is too firm, add a httle sauce or water. Form the forcemeat into small sausages or boudins, or mould them into the shape of an egg ^vith a table-spoon: drop them then into boiling water and poach them. Serve the bou- dins piled high on a dish, and pour brown Italian sauce, or white sauce, roimd them. Before moulding the boudins, put the prepara- tion on ice or in a cool place for some time. Time, four or five minutes to poach the bou- dins. Poultry, Fattening of, for the Table.—They should be kept clean, warm, and dry. For their food, mix oat and poase- meal with mashed potatoes, and a Uttlc kitchen- stuff. Have their food always fresh and plenti- ful, but do not cram them. Those who value (>olour as much as quality sometimes fatten fowls on rice swelled in sweet, skimmed milk. On the Continent they arc fattened on barley- meal with milk, or on buckwheat, and the flavour is excellent. Young pullets are used at any age. Poultry for the Sick.—Boil or roast a fowl in the usual way. As it i8 not likely