TUB ( 1012 ) truss it for roasting. Dissolve two ounces of l)Utt«r in a stewpan just laryo enough to hold the bird, and add two large slices of fat bacon cut into dice. Lay the bird iu this, put it over a clear lire, and when it is briglitly browned on one side, turn it ui)on the other. Lift it out, drain it, and i)ut it into another stewpan, with a bunch of piu\sley, a largo blade of mace, and a clove of gtu-lic or not, as preferred. Cover the bird with good stock, add a little popper and salt, and let it simmer gently until it is half- cooked. Put in a glassful of sherry, and lot it remain until done euougli. Take it up, and put it on !i dish in a hot oven, that it may retain its heat for a few minutes. Strain and skim tho gravy, thicken with a little brown thickening, and lot it boil a minute or two. Pour a little of it round the turkey, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Oyster sauce is an excellent ac- companiment to this dish, and a boned and pounded anchovy and a small shallot may be advantageously added to the forcemeat with which the turkey is stufEed. Time to stew the tui-key, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 6s. to 12s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts.— Take as many sound chestnuts as will com- pletely fill the body of the bird. Make a small gash with a sharp knife in the outer slrin to keep them from bursting, throw them into plenty of fast-boiling water, and let them boil until soft. Drain and dry them, and peel o£E the outer and the inner skin, look them over carefully, and reject any decayed or mouldy nuts. Fill the turkey's crop with good veal forcemeat, after- wards fill the body of the bird with the boiled chestnuts and the hver, and sew it up securely. Put it down to roast, and baste liberally. Serve on a hot dish, and send b^o^vn gravy and either bread sauce or onion sauce to table with it. The brown sauce may be made with the turkey giblets as follows :—Mince the heart and gizzard, and let them simmer gently for an hour or more. Skim the liquor, strain it, thicken with a Uttle brown thickening, and season with pepper and salt. Add a glassful of claret and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, let it boil a minute or two, and it will he ready for serving. Time to roast the turkey, an hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to size. Turkey Stuffed with Chicken.— Bone a young chicken without injuring the skin. Draw the legs and wings inside, fill the body with freshly-made nicely-seasoned sausage- meat, and make it round and compact in form. Put it inside a boned turkey; fill all the empty spaces with sausage-meat, and truss the turkey firmly, restoring it as nearly as possible to its original form. Cover with buttered paper, and put it down before a clear fire, though at some distance from it. Baste liberally, and roast very slowly, or the outside of the turkey will be done enough before the heat has penetrated to the interior of the chicken. This dish is a great favouiite with many of the English residents in Calcutta. It may be served hot or cold with the usual sauces, and in carving the turkey slices should be cut across the breast, so that each guest may have a sliare of turkey, chicken, and forcemeat. Tunc, two or three hours, according to the size of the birds. Turkey Stuffed with Mushroom Forcemeat.—Take six or eiglit small mush- rouius, peel them, put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and let them sinuner gently for seven or eight minutes. Drain tho liquor from them, and let them cool; then mince tiiem, and mix tlieiti with a quarU.-r of apound of finely-grated bn.-itd-crunibs. Add a slight seasoning of salt, cayenne, grated nut- meg, and grated lemon-rinil, but be careful that the mushroom flavour in not overjjowerod. Work an ounce of fresh Ijutter into the force- meat, bind it together with the j'olk of an egg, and add as much of the butter in which the mushrooms were stewed as it will take without being made too moist. Pound the mixture thoroughly, and it will be ready for use. FiU the tm-key with it, boil or roast it, and send mushroom sauce to table with it. Double this quantity of forcemeat will be required for a larffe turkey. Time, one hour to prepare the forcemeat. Turkey Stuffed with Sausage-meat. —Take a well-kept turkey weighing about eight pounds. Bone it according to the dii-ections previously given, and draw out all the bones excepting those of the wings. Take about three pounds of fine sausage-meat, and one pound of veal forcemeat. If liked, sausage- meat only may be used, and in this case some minced herbs should be mixed with the season- ing. The sausage-meat should be rich with fat, and moistened with a little cold stock or water. Fill the empty places where the bones have been and the body of the bii-d with the sausage-meat. Draw the turkey to its original form, tie both ends of the bird and the ends of the legs securely, truss the bird firmly, and plump it well {see Turkey, Trussed for Roast- ing). Flour it, tie it to the spit, instead of sticking the hook into it, and let it be well supported by leaving a string tied once or twice round the body, as the stuffing wiU make the bird heavy. Put it down to a clear fire, but at sonie distance from it, and baste libenilly until done enough. When this point is reached the steam will draw towards the fire. Flour and baste the bird again for a few minutes, take it up, send it to table on a hot dish, gar- nishing with sausage and forcemeat balls. Bread sauce may be served with the turkey, together with a little gravy made of the bones of the bird stewed down with stock, and a little seasoning. The appearance of the dish wiQ be improved if the breast is evenly larded. A roasted turkey is very good stuffed with sausage-meat without being boned. Time to roast the turkey, nearly two hours. Probable cost, turkey, 6s. to 12s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turkey, To Bone, {see Fowl, To Bone, without opening). Turkey, Truflaed.—There is no dish more highly esteemed than a truffled turkey. The easiest and perhaps in the end the most satisfactory way of getting one is to procure