PIN ( 575 ) PIN will fly off like snow-flakes. When the precise point is reached (a few seconds will make, a difference), put in the slices of pine-apple by means of the skewers, cover them entirely with the sugar, and then place them on a wu-e fruit- di-ainer. In about ten minutes, if the operation has been successful, it ought to be possible to draw away the fi-uit, without distui-bing the sugar, by pressing it with the fingers from beneath. Preparations of this kind are best left to the confectioner. Time to drj' the fruit, about an hour. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. to 2s. each. Pine-apple Ice Cream.—Whisk the yolks of six eggs thoroughly. Mix with them half a pint of lukewarm riiilk, and add two ounces of loaf sugar. Stir this custard over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken, then pom- it out, and stir it again. Pai-e a pine-apple with as Kttle waste as possible. Cut it into slices, and boil it for five minutes in a syrup made of half a pound of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of water. Press the fruit thi-ough a coarse sieve, and stir the pulp and the syi'up into the custard. Put the cream into a mould, and freeze in the usual way. This cream may be made with half a pound of preserved pine- apple. Probable cost, pine-apples, Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pine-apple Ice Cream (another way). —Slice the pine-apple, and bruise it in a mortar. Add a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of good fi'esh milk, a little lemon-juice, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar. IkGx the whole well together, and pass it through a hair sieve. Freeze. If preserved pine-apple be used, a half-pound pot will be required. Time, twenty-five minutes to freeze. Probable cost, 3b. per quart. Sufficient for eight persons. Pine Apple Jam. — Weigh the pine- apples, then skin and eye them, and cut them into thin slices. Boil it tiU cooked in as much water as will barely cover it, and add a little sugar. Rub it through a sieve. Take half a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Boil this with the pine-apple water to a clear thick syrup, add the fruit pulp, and stir over the fire till done. Pine-apple Jelly.—Pare a ripe pine- apple, and cut it into slices. Lay these on a dish, cover them with powdered and sifted sugar, and leave them for six or seven hours. Pour off the syrup and strain it. Dissolve and clarify an ounce of isinglass {sec Isinglass to Clarify) in half a pint of water. Mix with it a pint of the strained juice, and simmer all gently together for five minutes. Add a glass- ful of curaijoa. Pour three table-spoonfuls of the jelly into a mould shaped like a pine-apple, if one be at hand. Let the jelly stiffen, then lay neatly on it two or three slices of the pine- apple, and a little more jelly. Let this also stiffen, and repeat until the mould is fiiU. Turn the jelly out very carefully when it is wanted for use. If preferred, this jelly can be piit into the moTild without the fruit, but will not then be so elegant. When time is a consideration, the flavour of the pine-apple may be drawn out tnore quickly by cutting the fruit into slices, and boiling half a pound of it with eight ounces of loaf sugar, and haK a pint of Avater for half an hour, then straining it thi-ough a napkin. Time, two days. If the mould cannot be put upon ice, the jelly should be made some houi-s before it is wanted. Probable cost, 3s., exclu- sive of the cui-a9oa, if made with a pine-apple costing Is. 6d. Sufficient fcr six or eight persons. Pine-apple Julep.—Paxe a very ripe pine-apple with as little waste as possible, and. cut it into thin slices. Lay these in a large bowl, and strain over them the juice of two sweet oranges. Pour in a quarter of a pint of maraschino, a quarter of a pint of gin, and a quarter of a pint of raspberry syrup, and mix thoroughly. Just before serving, add a bottle of sparkling Moselle and a tumblerful of shaved ice. Pine-apple MTarmalade.—Choose ripe sound pines. Pare them, take out the eyes, weigh the fi-uit, and allow an equal weight of pounded and dried sugar. Grate the flesh on a coarse grater, then put it over a moderate fire, and let it heat gently for ten minutes, or until it is quite tender. Add the sugar very gradually, and boil the mixture until it looks thick and clear. Turn it into jars, and cover in the usual way. If preferred, the fruit may be cut up and pounded iostead of being gTated; but though more troublesome it is best when grated. Pi-obable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Pine-apple, Preserved. — Pine-apples are so expensive that it is very unusual to pre- serve them in any quantity. Nevertheless, as the jam made fi-om them is very delicious and highly esteemed, the following recipes are given:—The foreign fruit and that which is grown at home is often mixed with advantage. It need scarcely be said that that which is grown at home is much superior to that sent from abroad. Great care must be taken in choosing the fruit to secure it perfectly sound and fully ripe, without being in the least de- cayed. If the flesh roimd the stalk looks mouldy or dark, the fruit should not be pre- served. The flavour of pine-apples may gene- rally be guessed at by their odour. Pare the pine-apples, and take out the eyes. Cut them into slices a third oi an inch thick. For every pound of fruit thus weighed after being pared, take a pound of loaf sugar, and a small teacup- ful of water. Dissolve the sugar in the water, skim carefully, and boil until it forms a clear syrup. Put in the slices of pine, and boil gently until thev look bright and clear. Put the preserve into jars, cover closely, and store in a cool, dry place. Time to boil, at least half an hour after the fruit reaches the boiling point. Probable cost, when pine-apples are cheap, Is. 3d. per pound. Pine-apples, Preserved (for a short time only).—Pare the fruit, cut it into slices, and remove the specks and the hard part from the centre. Tear the rind into small pieces; put these and the waste portions into a stewpan. with as much water as wiU cover them, and let them simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, or until the liquid is pleasantly flavoured.