SCO ( 842 ) SGH Schpeischlitz, German. — This dish may bo umdu oithor swcot or siivoury. If pro- feri'od swoet, tho poppt;r and pursloy in tho following recipo may bo oniittod. Tut throo- quartors of a pint of inilk into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of buttor, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a littlo pepper and salt. When tlio milk rises in tho pan, stir quickly into it six ounces of maize tlour, and continue stirring over the fire until it forms a smooth com- pact mass, and loaves the sides of tho saucepan with tho spoon. Remove it from the fire, and work gradually into it a table-spoonful of chopped ptu-sley, and three fresh eggs. Mould the forcemeat into the form of quenelles with two tea-spoons which have been dipped into hot water, throw tho quenollos into boiling milk slightly salted, and poach them until the batter is set. Drain them, cover with fried crumbs, and serve immediately. Send jam to table with sweet schpeischlitz, and grated gi'uyere or parmesan with savoury schpeischlitz. Time to poach the schpeischlitz, ten minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Scones.—Put as much barley-meal as will be required into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and stir in cold water to make a stiff paste. Roll this out into round cakes a quarter of an inch thick, and bake on a girdle. SpUt the cakes open, butter them well, and serve hot. A little buttor may be rubbed into the meal if liked. Richer scones may be made by dissoh-ing an ounce of fresh butter in a pint of hot milk, and stirring this into as much flour as will make a stiff dough. When it is not convenient to bake the scones on a girdle, a thick frying-pan may be used instead. Time to bake the scones, about four minutes. Scones, Soda.—Dissolve half a salt-spoon- ful of carbonate of soda and five ounces of fresh butter or lard in a quarter of a pint of warm water or milk: put ten ounces of flour into a bowl, add a pinch of salt, and stir in the liquor to make a stiff dough. Roll this out into a round cake a quarter of an inch thick, mark this into eight portions, and bake on a girdle or in a thick frjing-pan. Split the scones, butter them well, and serve very hot. Time, to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. ScorOj To.—To score fish or vegetables is to make incisions on them with a sharp knife, thus facilitating the cooking. Scorzonera.—The roots of thie plant are sugary and well flavoured ; they may be boiled and served like parsnips, or treated like salsify. The coarse outer rind must be scraped off, and the roots soaked in cold water for a few hours to extract the bitter flavour. Scotch Broth (Genuine Scotch Recipe).— Take about three pounds of fresh beef. The shin or hock, or the thick flank, or any similar piece, will answer excellently. Procure also a tea-cupful of pearl barley, a cabbage, three leeks, one large turnip, one large carrot, and a quarter of a peck of peas, fresh or dried. When there is any difliculty in procuring the peas, they are frequently omitted. If dried peas are used, they must be soaked overnight. Put tho barley nito a Blewpun with six quarts of cold water. Whilst this is heating prepare tho vogetablcb. Shred the cabbage finely and cut the looks and turnip into small dice, and throw them into cold water till tliey are wanted, iiofore using, drain them. Chjanse the carrot, then scrape or grate it to pulp; and do not put any cold water upon it after it is grated, as tliat would cause it to lose its flavour. When the water boils, put into it all the vegetables, with tho beef and a little pepper and salt, and sim- mer the broth very gently till the beef is tender. If the meat is done enough before it is needed, it should bo taken out for awhile and put back in time to heat again. Particular care should bo taken to skim the broth carefully. Serve the beef on a separate dish, and send the broth with the vegetables and barley to table in a tureen. Excellent broth may be made with mutton or lamb, as well as beef. It is excellent the second day. Time to simmer the broth, about four hours. Probable cost, 3s. 4d. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. Scotch Broth (M. Tide's recipe).—Take some of the worst cutlets of the neck, trim them, but not too finely; put them by, and with the trimmings make the soup in the following manner:—Put into a stewpan th(.' mutton trimmings, some scrag ditto, and a knuckle of veal; moisten this with good boiHng broth; then season the broth with a bunch of celery, leeks, parsley, one large onion with two cloves, a few slices of turnip cut into dice, and one or two carrots, also cut in dice. Let this broth boil gently three hours; season it with salt, and skim off the fat. When it becomes of a good flavour, drain it over the chops, which you must put in a small stew- pan, large enough, however, to contain the soup. Have some barley that has been boiled a long time; wash it well, and put it with the turnips and carrots and chops to boil one hour. Skim again before sending to table. No bread is used with this soup. Celery cut in dice with the tuiTups gives additional flavour; you can sometimes add, just at dinner-time, a. little parsley chopped very fine just as you serve up. Scotch Cake.—Beat three-quarters of a pound of butter to cream, add a pound of pow- dered and sifted sugar, one pound of dried flour, one table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a quarter of a pint of milk. Roll out the dough to the thickness of the third of an inch, cut it into cakes, and bake these in a well-heated oven. When the cakes are lightly and equally coloured they are done enough. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. for this quantity. Scotch Dishes.—Recipes for the vnriou.s national dishes of Scotland will be found under their respective headings. On this and the succeeding page, however, we have given a few additional examples of Caledonian cookery. Scotch Kale.— Like all other greens, Scotch kale should be procured as fresh as possible. Cut awav the outer and decavod leaves and the stalks, ^yash the kale with scrupulous care, and drain it. Put it into