SOR SOB ( 898 ) and frooze in tho usual way. When frozen, fla- vour it with tlu-ee tiiLlo-apoonfulti of kirschou- wasser. Put tho Horbot into gluHBOH, and Horvo it at dinnor with tho roaHta. Sorbet of Rum.—Make the ice as before, but boioro i'rcu/iii^' mix with the BOrbet a quarter of a pint of straiut^d Iciuon-juice. When frozen, flavoui- with tlueo table-apoonfiilH of lino old Jamaica ruin, and servo it in glaHses with the roasts. Sorrel. — >Sorrol is an acid-leaved root lai-gely used on the Continent to make soups, sauces, and salads. Where the taste for it luis been acquired, it is considered a pleasant ac- companiment to young meat. Sometimes, when soiTcl alone is considered too acid, a mixture of equal pai'ts of spinach and sorrel is served. Sorrel grows wild, and may be liad for the plucking, and gathered thus is very good; nevertheless, as the flavour of cultivated son-el is much superior to that of wild sorrel, every garden should contain a few plants. The most useful vai-iety is the broad-leaved sorrel, which is easily propagated either by seed or division of the root. This root, like that of rhubarb, will stand almost any amount of ill-usage. The seed is very small, and must be only slightly covered with earth. The young plants may be thinned to from three to six inches apart; but if they are left crowded no great harm will be done, as they must eventually be transplanted. Spring-sown soiTel may be gathered the next autumn; during the following season it wiU afford several cuttings. Sorrel and Eggs {see Eggs and Sorrel). Sorrel for Garmshing Meat.—Pick three pounds of fresh green sorrel, wash it in several waters, and di-ain it thoroughly. Put it into a good-sized saucepan with a tea-spoon- ful of salt and a quart of boiling water, and let it boil quicldy till tender, turning occasionally to prevent the lower leaves burning to the bottom of the pan. Drain it well, then chop it till very small. Work an ounce of flom- into an ounce and a half of butter, and stir the mixture quickly over the fire for three minutes. Put in the sox-rel, and add, a little at a time, half a pint of strong stock. Stir the sorrel over the fire for fully twenty minutes. Beat two eggs with three table-spoonfuls of milk, stir this quickly into the sorrel, and in four or five minutes it Avill bo ready for serving. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the sorrel. Sorrel Fried in Batter.-Make a small quantity of frying-batter {see Batter for Frying Vegfitaijles). This will be better if made an hour or two before it is wanted. Take the middle leaves only of the sorrel, wash them in two or three waters, drain and dry them well, and trim them neatly. Dip them in tliu batter, and fry them in hot fat till crisp and brown. Serve ou a hot dish, garnished with parsley. Time to fiy, three or four minutes. Sorrel, Lamb Ragout with {see Lamb Ragout with Sorrel). Sorrel, Pur6e of (to serve with cutlets, }pa.st veal, &c.).—Wash half a peck of fresh green sorrel in several waters; pick away the stalks, and boil it witli hidf a pint of water till tender, then drain it tliorouglily. .Slice two Lugo onieuH, and fry them in butter tj^l they turu yellow ; di-edge a little Hour ujjon theui, and add half a pint of giavy, a small lumj) of sugar, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the sorrel over a gcintlcj lire for twenty minutes, and afterwitrds rub it patiently through a hair sieve. It may be s<jrved in the centre of a dish, with cutl(;ts round it, or as an accompaniment to roast veal. Limb, or mutton. I'ime to boil the soiTcil, a quai-t(jr of an hour. Suilicient for three or four peisons. Sorrel, Pur^e of (another way).—Wash and pick some sorr(;l and some cos or (atbbage- lettuces, and put them into a stewjjan with a little water: keep stirring with a spoon to pre- vent its buiTiing; when melted lay it in a hair sieve to di-ain; then put it on the table, and chop it well with some trimmings of mushrooms. When chopped fine, put it into a stewpan with a little butter and a few small pieces of good ham; let it fry a long time on the fire, in order to drain the water it contains. When it has become qmte dry, mix it with four spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, or more if a large quantity is required, and let it stew for a long time over a small stove. After it has been constantly boil- ing for an hour, rub it through a tamis. If it should happen to be too thick, dilute it with a little consomme or stock broth, or Spanish sauce. If too acid, put in a little glaze and sugar. Always put cabbage-lettuce with the sorrel, to correct its acidity. When you make puree of sorrel, put a spoonful of flour to thicken the sauce, and dilute with veal gravy, and then proceed as before. If you have no gravy of veal or of beef, two spoonfuls of broth and a small bit of glaze will answer the same purpose. Sorrel Salad.—Take a quart of fresh green sorrel; pick the leaves from the stalks, but on no account cut them; wash them well, and drain and dry them thoroughly. Pile them in a salad-bowl, and send any simple salad sauce to table with them. Sorrel Sauce.—Pick the stalks and large fibres from a quart of fresh green sorrel, wash it in several watei-s, di-ain it, and put it into an enamelled saucepan with a shce of fresh butter, and stew it gently till tender. Stir it well to keep it from burning. Drain it, and rub it through a coarse hair sieve, season with pepper and salt, and add half a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, the juice of half a lemon, if the sauce is for roast veal; or a spoonful or two of thick brown sauce, if it is for roast nionl; or a little cream, if wanted white for fowls. Serve when hot. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Sorrel Sauce (another way).—Take a few handfuls of sorrel leaves, wash them, and choj) them small, adding a few chives or half a sinall onion. Put them with a piece of butter m a small casserole, cover it, and leave it to steam. Add enough broth or water thickened with a table-spoonful of flour. Boil the till the Porrel softens. Add a grate of nutmeg and salt.