TAN ( 956 ) TAM mixture into a thickly-buttered baking-dish, jmd lot it bo from two to throo inches in thick- ness, liukti in a moderate oven. When the pudding is done enough, let it stand for a couple of minutes, then turn it out on a hot ■'iiah. Time to bake, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Id. 8uliicient for half a dozen persons. Tamara, Italian.—Take one ounce of coriander-seed, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, half an ounce of fenncl-sced, half an ounce of aniseed; beat these ingredients to a powder, and use in the same way as curry powder. Tamarind.—This is the fruit—or rather the pod—of a tree indigenous to the East and West Indies. It thrives also in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine. In these countries it is some- times used as an article of food in the form of confectionery, and it is highly thought of on account of its pleasant acid taste and cooUng properties. The pod consists of two parts: the outer is fleshy, and the inner as thin as parch- ment. Between these two there is a space of about a quarter of an inch, which is occupied by a soft pulp of a tart but agreeable taste. The pods are gathered when quite ripe, freed from the shelly fragments, and placed in a cask in layers; boiling syrup is then poiired over them till the cask is full. The syrUp pervades every TAMARINDS part, even to the bottom. WTien cold the casks are headed down and sent to market. The more refined mode of preparation, however, is to clarify the juice of the fruit with the white of egg, and form it with sugar into a clear, trans- parent syrup : this and the fruit supplies an agreeable and cooling beverage. Tamarind-juice.—Mix a quarter of a pint of tamarind-juice with half a pint of cold spring water. This will make a refreshing drink in hot weather or for a sick person. Tamis.—A tamis is a worsted cloth made on purpose for straining sauces. The best way of using it (says Dr. Kitchiner) is for two people to twist it contrary ways. This is a better way of straining sauce than passing it llirough a sieve, and refines it much more completely. Tangerine Oranges, Frosted.—Divide some tangerine oruugea into (juarters. IIuvo ready some thin wooden skewers four or five inches long, a skewer for each piece of oran-'e and put them in the point of each quarter^of orange about half-way through. Lay one end of the skewers upon a sieve bo that the fruit can hang outside without touching anything and let it dry for two or three hours. Make an icing by boiling a pound of sugar with a pmt of water to a clear syrup, and when it is smooth and clear add a Uttle of the juice and grated rind of the orange to flavour it agreeably. When the sugar rises like large beads in the pan, take a little quickly from the top with the finger, and plunge it at once into cold water. If it comes easily off the finger the sugar is ready for use, and must not be boiled longer, or it will be discoloured. Dip the pieces of oranges in the icing, and afterwards let them drain from the sieve imtil cold. Remove the skewers, and serve the iced fruit in a compote- dish. Time, about three hours. Sufiicient, six oranges for a moderate-sized dish. Tankard Cup.—Make a slice of toast, put it in a large goblet, and grate over it the eighth of a nutmeg. Add two inches of thin lemon-rind, and squeeze upon it the juice of half a lemon. Mix a pint of nuld ale with a table-spoonful of brandy, a table-spoonful of white wine, and a table-spoonful of capillaire. Pour the mixture over the toast, and it will be ready to serve. A sprig of mint or borage may be put into the mixture for a minute, or not. Tansy, Apple {see Apple Tansy). Tansy Pudding. — This is an old- fashionea dish seldom to be met with at modern tables. Pound a handful of green tansy with three or four young spinach-leaves, and squeeze out the juice. Pour a pint of boiling milk over a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, and let it stand until cool. Add two ounces of butter, a glassful of brandy, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of the tansy- juice. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, then add four well-beaten eggs. Pour the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a well- heated oven. Serve very hot, and sift pow- dered sugar thickly over the top of the pudding. A superior tansy pudding may be made by flavouring the milk with pounded almonds, and Uning the edges of the dish with puif paste before putting in the mixture. At old- fashioned tables the ordinary batter pudding may occasionally be seen coloured and flavoured with tansy-j uice. Tansy-leaves have a peculiar bitter taste, and are said to act as a tonic. Time to bake, about throe-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tansy Pudding (another w,iy).—Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of Jordan al- monds ; put thorn into a stewpan, add a gill of the sjTup of roses, tho crumb of a Frrnch roll, some grated nutmeg, half a glassful of brandy.