BAT RAT? (714) Strain tho liquor through a sieve with blotting- paper laid in it, and add half a pound of white Hugar-candy dissolved in a quarter of a pint of cold water. Taste tho ratatia, and if not suf- ficiently sweet add a little more sugar-candy. Put tho preparation into small bottles, cork these closely, and store for use. If apricot kernels cannot easily bo obtained, blanched bitter almonds may be used instead. Sufficient for nearly thi'ee pints of ratafia. HatafLa (another way).—Blanch and bruise the kernels of 300 apricots, peaches, and necta- rines ; put them into a clean stone jar with a pound of white sugar candy and half a pound of sweet and one ounce of blanched bitter almonds beaten in a stone mortar with orange-flower water; pour on them a gallon of French brandy; cork the jar well, and seal it; let it stand in a warm room two months, shaking it daily; then store it for twelve months; filter it perfectly clear through two or thi-ee thicknesses of muslin, and put into small bottles corked and sealed.— Ratafia, Angelica (see Angelica Eatafia). Ratafia, Anisette.—Bruise two ounces of green aniseed, one ounce of coriander-seed, two pennyweights of cinnamon, and quarter of a di-achm of mace. Put these ingredients into a jar with two quarts of brandy; add twelve ounces of sugar partially dissolved in a very little water; let the whole infuse for a month, then filter through paper, and bottle it. Ratafia, Apricot—Katafia of apricots is prepared in two ways—namely, either by bod- ing the apricots in white wine, adding to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, with sugar, cinnamon, mace, and the kernels of apricots, infusing the whole for eight or ten days, then straining the Hquor, and putting it up for use; or by infusing the apricots, cut m pieces, in brandy for a day or two, passing it through a straining bag, and then putting in the usual ingredients. Ratafia Biscuits. —Blanch and pound together to a smooth paste three ounces of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter almonds, and add whilst pounding a dessert- spoonful of brandy and the whites of two eggs beaten to a firm froth; stir m half a pound of loaf sugar powdered and sifted, and beat the mixture tiU it is a firm smooth paste Bake one or two little cakes to test the lightness of the paste, and if they are heavy add gradually the whites of one or two" additional eggs Lay the mixture on writing-paper in rounds the size of a halfpenny, and bake these on tins m a moderate oven till they are hghtly browned. Take them from the paper as soon as cold. Some cooks add a spoonful of flour to the above pre%tion. Or, blanch and pound together to a smooth paste two ounces of sweet Jordan almonds and three-quarters of an ounce of hitter almonds. Add gradually the whites of JlfeggTbeaten to a Irm froth, half a pound of loafsugar powdered and sifted, and half a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water: beat the iSctSre till it is a firm paste. Test the ratafias, S in addition two whites of eggs if required - 7.d balie as before in a moderate oven, lime to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pound. Ratafia. Blackberry. — Take twenty pounds of blackberries, and mash them with the J uico of twenty oranges and ton lemons. Pound in a mortar hiilf a pound of bitter almonds, half an ounce of nutmeg, two pods of vanilla, an ounce of coriander-seeds, and four sticks of Jamaica pepper. Put this into the ma«h-pan with tho fruit and a quart of syrup. Let the mass bo put into a large well-corkod stone bottle, and stand it near the fire for a fortnight. At the end of that time strain off the liquor, and to each quart add one of French brandy. Lot it stand another fortnight. Then make it clear by running it as often as necessary through a jelly-bag, and bottle for use. Ratafia, Black Currant.—Take twelvr pounds of black currants, and mash them in a deep earthen pan. Pound in a mortar half an ounce of cinnamon, three pods of vanilla cut in bits, an ounce of cardamom-seeds, four sticks of Jamaica pepper, a drachm of mace, a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, and six apricot kernels. Add these ingredients to the fruit, together with a quart of syrup. Put the whole into a large stone bottle, and let it stand during a fortnight near the fire. Then strain out all the juice through a linen bag, pressing it well out, and with each quart of the juice mix a quart of the best French brandy. Let it stand another fortnight in the same place. Then run it through a jelly-bag until it is clear, and bottle for use. Ratafia, Cacao.—Take one pound of Caracca cacao-nuts, half a pound of West Indian cacao-nuts, both being roasted and bruised, and a gallon of proof spirit. Digest for a fort- night, then filter, and add two pounds and a half of white sugar and half a drachm of tinc- ture of vanilla, or, instead of this, a shred of vaniUa may be infused with the nuts in the spirit. After a month, decant and bottle the ratafia. Ratafia Cake.—Blanch and pound to- gether to a smooth paste six ounces of sweet almonds and two ounces of bitter almonds. Add the whites of two eggs beaten to a sohd froth, and beat in very gradually half a pound of loaf sugar powdered and sifted, half a tea- spoonful of grated lemon-rind, and the yolks of eight eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly. Add two ounces of fine flour, and the re- maining whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Butter a mould, half fill it with the mixture, and bake the cake in a slow oven. Let it stand a few minutes, shake it to loosen it, take it out carefully, and set it upon a reversed sieve till cold. .Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 28. Ratafia Cheese-cakes.—Boil a pint ot milk till lukewai-m. Sweeten and flavour it with a dessert-spoonful of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of brandy, then stir into it a table-spoonful of rennet. Let it stand in a cool place till it is tinned to a curd. Beat it well, draw off the whey, and stir into it three- quarters of an ounce of powdered ratJifia bis- cuits, one ounce of dissolved butter, and two