BAB BAB ( 697 ) flour, Jind bako in a well-heated oven till it'is firmly set. Let it cool, turn out the flour, and spread the forcemeat aU over the inside. Fill the vacant space evenly and compactly with the meat from the legs. Place the iillets from the back o^■er the top to show the larding, and put a slice of ham between each piece to give the dish a pretty appearance. Wrap the whole meat and case together in a thick fold of oiled paper, and bako in a moderate oven. Remove the paper. Hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over the top of the turban for three or four minutes to crisp the lardons, make a little hole in the centre and poui- into this a little gravy, place the case on a neatly-folded napkin, gar- nish the dish with parsley, &c., and serve very hot. If liked, a few mushrooms may be stewed in gravy, and laid upon and around the turban. The gravy may be made as follows:—Put the bones of "the rabbits into a stewpan with as much stock or water as will cover them, and add an onion stuck with two cloves, three or four outer sticks of celery, a dozen peppercorns, and a little salt. Let all simmer gently together till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and put it back into the saucepan, stir into it a slice of butter rolled in flour, and boil it till it is smooth and thick. Add a quarter of a pint of cream. A spoonful or two of this sauce may be poured into the turban, and the rest sent to table in a tureen. Time to bake, about an hour. Sufficient for a luncheon or supper dish. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit (Venetian way).—Take thi-eo or more young rabbits; skin and empty them nicely, then cut them into pieces in the following way: —Take ofl: the shoulders, then the head from the neck, divide the back in foui- parts; take off the legs on each side of the saddle, and cut them into two pieces. Have ready half a pottle of mushrooms chopped verj' fine, with parsley and shallots, also chopped fine. Put a small lump of butter into a stewpan with a little rasped bacon; put the sweet herbs on the fire with a little salt, pepper, and allspice; let them stew for-a short time on a slow fire. When sufficiently fried, put in the rabbits, make them get finn with these sweet herbs tiU they are sufficiently done. Take the limbs out from the seasoning, lean the stewpan sideways to skim the fat that comes uppermost, put a spoonful of sauce toumee, or if you have none, add to it a small tea-spoonful of flour, mois- tened with a spoonful or two of consomme, let it boil a few minutes, and make a thickening of the yolks of four eggs; add the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper; stir the sauce well; if it happens to be too thick, make it thinner with a spoonful of broth; keep it quite hot, throw the members into the sauce again, and send up quite hot. This sauce must be rather highly seasoned. Rabbit, (Rare-bit), Welsh—Take a slice of bread about half an inch thick. Cut off the crust, toast it lightly, and butter it. Cut it in halves, and lay upon each half a slice of good Stilton or Cheshire cheese. Put the toasts in a cheese-toaster before a clear fire, and let them rc- niain until the cheese is equally done. Serve the rabbit, or rare-bit, very hot, with pepper, salt, and made mustard. Some cooks toast the cheese partially in a Dutch oven, before laying it on the toast. Time to toast the cheese, a few minutes. The length of time varies with the quality of the cheese. {See also Eare-bit, Welsh, and Cheese, Toasted). Rabbit with Cucumber.—Cut the meat from the remains of a cold roast rabbit into neat strips, and lay it aside. Slice a fine cucumber very thinly. Sprinkle a little salt over it, and lay it between two dishes for an hour. Drain the water from it, pour over it a spoonful or two of vinegar, and let it remain for another hour-. Pour off the vinegar, and put the slices of cucumber into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and either an onion or a small bunch of chives. Shake the saucepan over -the fire, till the cucumber is slightly brovmed. Dredge a little flour over it, pour upon it a quarter of a pint of good gravy or stock made from bones, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Take out the herbs, season the sauce with pepper and salt, put in the pieces of rabbit, and. let them get quite hot. The sauce must not boil after the rabbit is put in. Pile the rabbit qn a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve very hot. Time, half an hour to simmer the sauce; a few minutes to heat the pieces of rabbit. Rabbit with Curry.—Take two or three rabbits, and cut in pieces the hind-legs, back, and loins. Put these in a stewpan with butter and six ounces of streaky bacon in large dice. Fry over a moderate fire, but do not let the contents of the pan take too much colour: salt, sprinkle with flour, and curry powder. Fry the pieces of rabbit for a few seconds longer, moisten with broth off the fire, put the stewpan again on the fire, and stir the liquid till it is boiling. In five minutes remove the stewpan on a moderate fire to finish cooking the rabbits. Ten minutes before serving, lay the pieces of rabbit in another stewpan, and pass the sauce over; then add to the stew two large onions cut into dice, seasoned and coloured with butter in a frying-pan. Just before serving, thicken the sauce with two yolks of eggs diluted with cream; cook the liaison without permitting the sauce to boil, then send the meat to table, with some rice, boiled Indian fashion, in a separate dish. Rabbit with Herbs.—Skin, empty, and wash a rabbit, and cut it into pieces the size of an egg. If the head is used split it in halves. Fry the pieces in a little hot fat, and turn them about till they are equally and lightly browned. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add eight or ten mushrooms chopped small, a shaUot finely minced, a table-spoonful of parsley, a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over them a quaiier of a pint of good gravy, and let all simmer gently together till tender. Crush the liver of the rabbit (which has been previously boiled for ten minutes), and mix it with the gravy. A glassful of sherry may be added or not. Serve very hot. Time,