WIN WIN ( 1138 ) Ifames of the M'ineit, Malt and Spirituous Liquors, and l/io l>ro})ortion nf Alcohol (.s-jjoci/ii: iiravity O HliS) in one hundred parts of these tK/uids by measure. Xorea or iShorry (averugo) . . 19-17 Tenorilt'e 19'7'J Laclu-yma Christi .... iy-70 CouBtiinlia (wliito).... 19-7() .^o- M .... 18-92 Lisbon 1894 Capo Muscat 18-25 Houssillon (average) . . , 18-13 Miilaga 17-26 Hermitage (wliito). . . . 17-43 Malmsey Madeira . . . .10-40 Lunel 15-52 Bordeaux Wine or Claret (average) 15-10 ISauterne 14-22 Burgundy (average) . , . 14-57 Nice 14-63 Champagne (still) . . . .13-80 do. (sparkling) . . . 12-61 Red Hermitage .... 12-32 Vin de Grave .... 13.37 Frontignac 12-89 Cote Eotie 12-32 Ehenish Wine (average) . . 12-08 Tokay 9-88 Gooseberry Wine . . . .11-84 Cider (highest average) . . . 9-87 do. (lowest average) . . 6-21 Mead 7-32 Ale (average) 6-87 Brown Stout 6-80 Porter (average) .... 4-20 Small Beer 1-28 Brandy 53-39 Eum 63-68 Gin 51-60 Whisky 54-32 Irish Whisky .... 53-90 The action of wines upon the animal economy depends principally upon the quantity of alco- hol they contain. However, a certain given quantity of wine does not act in the same way as a mixture of alcohol and water in the same proportions; and certain wines yielding on distillation very nearly the same pro- portion of alcohol do not inebriate with the same facility. This difference must be ascribed to the various kinds of combinations in which alcohol exists in these complex products. Wines, Analysis of.—The following re- marks on this subject are drawn from the admirable South Kensington Museum Hand- book on " Food," by Professor Church. " When the sugary juice of any fruit is left to itself for a time at a moderately warm temperature, the change known as fermentation occurs. This fermentation is generally brought about by the growth of a low form of vegetable life—an organised ferment. It consists of a splitting up of the sugar present in the liquid (or at least of a large part of it) into alcohol, which remains in the liquid, and carbonic acid gas, which escapes more or less complctely- " Although the fermented juice of all fruits may be regarded as wine, yet the term is gene- rally limited to the alcoholic liquor prepared from the grape- But we have in England at least two familiax native wines—perry or pear wine, and cider or apple wine. Other so-called lintish wiiKiH are usually made-up or compound iKinors, into wliich a krge quantity of cane or b(;i;t sugar has been introduced. They cannot bo regarded as true wines, nor are they generally wholesome. "The analysis of grapes shows us that the chief mgrodient in their juice is glucow;, a kind of sugar. There is also some albuminoid matter and a little tartaric acid, chiefly in wjmbination with potash; other minor ingredients also exist m grape--juice. The seeds of the grape contain the astringent substance, tannin, with some bitter principles, while in the skins not only docs colouring matter exist, but also some flavour- ing matters and tannin. From these facts it will be clearly seen that very different qualities of -Nvine may be made from the same quality of grape, according to the method of operating upon the fruit. The colour, the bouquet or volatile flavour, the astringency, &c., of a wine may thus be varied according to the admission or exclusion of the characteristic ingredients of the skins and stones of the grapes. "The main difference between grape-juice and grape-wine is the substitution of the sugar in the former by the alcohol which is charac- teristic of the latter. But other changes occur in the fermentation and ripening of wine. Much of the acid tartrate of potash is deposited from the liquid on being kept, this deposit being called argol. Argol consists chiefly of the above- mentioned tartrate, but with it a little colouring matter and some tartrate of lime are always found. In the stronger but natural white wines small floating crystals of cream of tartar often occur; they are nearly pure acid tartrate of potash. A small quantity of free acetic acid is found in wines. When they become sour it is this acid to which the sourness is due; it is formed by the oxidation of some of the alcohol present, a change which occurs more readily in weak natural wines than in those which contain much alcohol. Another important characteristic of wines is the presence in small quantity of certain compounds called ethers. They are usually fragrant oily liquids, of which traces are present in all wines. These ethers are com- pounds formed by the imion of the ordinary alcohol or spirit of wine with some of the acids which are contained in the fermented liquor—at least this is usually the case. Much, then, of the flavour and perfume of a wine is due to these ethers, some of which existed, ready- formed, in the grape itself, while others were slowly formed in keeping the fermented liquor. Different varieties of grape yield differently- flavoured wines, but the alcoholic strength of a wine depends mainly upon the propoi-tion of sugar in the grapes, and in the degree of com- pletion to which the process of fennentation is carried. The same kind of grape gives a very different wine as to flavour and alcoholic strength in accordance with the climate in which it is grown, the season, and the soil. " The quantity of true or absolute alcohol in natural wines varies from 7 per cent, in some hocks, clarets, and other light wines, to 13 ])er cent- in many Greek and Hungarian -^ intiiges. When the quantity of absolute alcohol exceeds 13 or 13^ per cent, it may usually be considered