VEA VEA ( 1030 ) two ounces of butter on the moat, and lav on tho buttor thi-oe frosli trufHos which have boon cleanod and cut into thin slices. Place tho skni in its original jiosition, and sew it on with coiu-so twine. I'loceed as before. Priibable cost, voal, lid. por pound. Suflicient for six or seven persons. Veal, Braised, with Truffles.—Take about four pounds of veal from tlie middle of tho loin. Saw off tlie chine-bone, cut tho bones short, and take off tho skin an eighth of an inch thick. Spread on this two ounces of butter and throe fresh truffles which have been cleaned and thinly sliced. Restore tho skin to its original position, and sew it on securely with twine. Butter a stewpan, and cover the bottom with a thin slice of ham. Put the veal on this, and place round it the bones and trimmings, a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a mushroom chopped small, a lump of sugar, a small blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a grain of coriander-seed and a piece of garlic the size of a split pea. These two last ingredients may be omitted. Pour over all half a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently till done enough. Skim the liquor, and baste the meat with it frequently. Take up the veal, and put it in the oven to keep hot. Skim the fat from the gravy, and rub it with the' vegetables, &c., through a fine sieve. Let it boil, and if liked add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the veal on a dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the veal, two hours and a half. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Veal, Breast of.—A breast of veal consists of two portions, the best end and the brisket end. The brisket is generally Id. or 2d. per pound cheaper than the best end. Breast of veal may be bought whole or in parts. A whole one weighs from nine to twelve poimds. Veal, Breast of (a la Chipolata).—Bone, roll, braise, and dish the veal according to the directions given in Veal, Breast of, Rolled and Braised. Place round it a chipolata ragout (see Chipolata Garnish), omitting any of the ingre- dients that are difficult to procure. A little bacon should be served with the veal, either in the garnish or on a separate dish. Veal, Breast of (a la Marengo).—This is an imitation of the famous fricasseed Chicken, a la Marengo. Cut up a portion of the breast of veal into neat pieces convenient for serving. Fry these in butter or fat till they are lightly browned, and put into the pan with them a little grated ham, a large onion thinly sliced, and a little pepper and salt. Pour upon them as much stock or water as will barely cover them. Simmer all gently together tiU the veal is done enough, then add half a dozen or more stowed mushrooms. Thicken the sauce with a small piece of brown thickening, and throw into it at the moment of serving a little finely- chopped parsley. Put the veal into a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time to simmer tho veal, about two hours. Probable cost, breast of veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of, Boiled.—If the sweet- bread IS to be boiled with tho veal, let it soak in water for a couple of hours, then skewer it to tho veal. l>ut this into a saucepan, with boiling water to cover it, let it boil once more, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Add a handful of parsley, a tea-spoonful of pepper- corns, a blade of mace, and a little salt. Draw it back, and then simmer gently until done enough. Servo on a hot dish, and pour a little good onion sauce or jjarsley sauce over it. Send boiled bacon to table on a separate dish. The sweetbread may, of course, be dressed separately. Time to simmer tho veal, about one hour and a half. Veal, Breast of. Broiled.—Three parts roast a portion of the breast of veal. Take it up, score it across in oven lines, and fili these -with salt and cayenne and a few powdered herbs. Broil the veal over a clear fire, and tm-n it over from one side to the other till it is done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with piquant sauce jjoured over it. Veal, Breast of, Collared.—Bone the veal, remove the gristle and tendons, and to flatten it beat it gently with a rolling-pin. Spread upon it a little pepper, salt, and poimded mace, together with some parsley, thyme and marjoram, and two or three shallots, all finely chopped. Lay upon the herbs some thick shoes of fine ham, together with two calves' tongues, boUed, skinned, and shced. Roll the veal tightly, and bind it with tape. Put it into a saucepan with as much stock or water as will cover it, and let it simmer gently tin it is quite tender throughout. Take it up, and put it in press till cold. If Uked, the flesh of two boiled pigs' or calves' feet may be put upon the ham, and to improve the ajDpearance of the veal some hard-boiled yolks of eggs and a little shced beetroot may be interspersed with the seasoning. Time to simmer the veal, about four hours. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Probable cost, 14s. to 16s. Veal, Breast of. Collared (another way).—Bone a breast of veal. Lay it on the table, and sisread on it a thick layer of nicely seasoned oyster forcemeat {see Oysters, Force- meat of). Roll the veal as tightly as possible, and bind it -wath tape. Put it into boiling water, let it boil up once, skim the Hquor carefully, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible till the veal is tender. Put the bones into a separate saucepan with a moderate-sized onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer till the liquor is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, thicken with white thickening or with a little flour and butter, and stir into it two or three table-spoonfuls of thick cream. If milk has to be used instead of cream the yolk of an egg may be beaten up with it. Serve the meat on a hot di.sh with the sauce poured over. This dish may be garnished with forcemeat-balls, and with the sweetbread cut into slices, egged and broad-crnmbod, and fried; or a little parsley and sliced lemon may be used in.flcad. The moat is somotimos baked instead of boiled, and then a little weak stock