VEA ( 1042 ) VEA pounded to pasto, the strained juice of half a large lemon, and a little salt, pepper, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. A wine-glassful of sherry or nuideira will greatly improve the gravy. Cover the saucepan closely, and bimmer the ingredients as gently as possible till the voal is quite tender. Remember to remove the scum as it rises, and shake tlie saucepan frequently in order to keep the contents from burning. Time to simmer the veal, one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Sufficient for thi'eo persons. Veal Cutlets, Bread-crumbed and Broiled.—Divide the best end of a neck of veal into cutlets. Saw off the chine-bone, shorten the rib-bones, trim the cutlets neatly, and flatten them. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them. Brush them over first with clarified butter or oil, then with beaten egg; dip them in bread-criunbs, once more into oil, and then into the bread-crumbs again. Broil over a clear fire of a moderate heat, and turn them that they may be equally cooked on both sides. When they axe brightly browned take them up, arrange them on a dish alter- nately with rashers of ham or bacon, and send good gravy, or tomato, or any piquant sauce to table with them. Time to broil the cut- lets, ten to fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Broiled (a I'ltalienne).— Take the best part of a neck of veal: cut the ribs one by one, flatten them, and pare them nicely, powder over a little salt and pepper, take the yolk of an egg, and with a paste-brush rub the cutlets with part of the egg, then dip them first in the bread-crumbs, then in melted butter, and afterwards in the crumbs of bread again ; give them a good form, and broil them on a slow fire, that they may get a fine brown colour. Serve with a brown Italian sauce, Spanish sauce, or gravy. Veal Cutlets, Broiled, Plain.—Divide the best end of a neck of veal into neat cutlets, allowing one bone to each. Trim these neatly, cut away the chine-bone, shorten the rib- bones, and flatten the cutlets with a cutlet-bat. Sprinkle salt and pepper on both sides, brush them over slightly with oil, and broil on a grid- iron over a clear slow fire till they are nicely browned on both sides. Serve on a hot dish, with a few slices of ham or bacon on a separate dish. Good brown gravy, or tomato or any piquant sauce, may be seut to table with veal cutlets. Time to broil the cutlets, ten to fifteen minutes, according to thickness. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Curried.—Cut one pound of veal from the fillet into neat squares con- venient for serving, and free from skin, bone, gristle, or fat. Beat these well, and dip them twice into beaten egg and bread-crumbs seasoned with curry powder. Fry in a little butter over a gentle fire, and turn them that they may be equally cooked. Put them into a dish, and pour some good curry sauce round them. Serve very hot. If liked, the cutlets may be broiled instead of being fried, and then tliey will require only to be brushed over with clarified butter, and to have curry powder sprinkled upon them instead of being dipped into the beaten egg and seasoned bread-crumbs. The curry sauce may be prepared as follows: — Slice two large onions, and steam them in butter in a closely-covered saucepan till they are soft without being at all coloured. Add a sour apple pared, cored, and minced, and repkce the sauce- jmn upon the tire till this also is tender, liub the ingredients through a sieve, and mix the l)ulp with a dessert-spoonful of ground rice, a dessert-spoonful of curry pasto, and half a pint of stock. Simmer the sauce for twenty minutes, and it will be ready for serving. If this sauce is too pungent, a spoonful of curry paste may be stirred into half a pint of plain gravy made in tlie pan in which the cutlets were fried. Time to fry the cutlets, twelve to fourteen minutes. Veal Cutlets, Farce of.—Take some cutlets of an even thickness from the best end of a neck of veal, trim them in the usual way, flatten them, and spread over each one a cover- ing of good veal forcemeat. Roll the meat round the bone, put a thin slice of fat bacon over each cutlet, and bind it with twine to prevent the forcemeat escaping. Butter a stew- pan, and place a bed of sliced vegetables—carrot, turnip, onions, and celery—in the bottom. Lay the stuffed cutlets on these, and pour upon them as much stock as will half cover them. Let them simmer as gently as possible till quite tender. Take them up, place them in a circle on a dish, strain the gravy over, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the cutlets, about two hours. j Veal Cutlets, Fried.—Take the cutlets from the best end of the neck, and let them be about half an inch thick. Trim them neatly, flatten with a cleaver, and flour well. Fry them in butter or good dripping until they are cooked through. When brown on one side turn them upon the other. Pour away the fat, and dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the pan, stir a dessert-spoonful of flour into this, and when it is quite smooth and brown add very gradually a cupful of boiling gravy which has been made by stewing the trimmings of the veal verj' gently for an hour or more with a little water, a small roll of lemon-rind, an onion, half a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley and thjTne, and a little pepper and salt. This sauce ma J', if liked, be flavoured with a little lemon- juice or walnut pickle, or with a few mush- rooms. Some people would scarcely care for veal cutlets unless they were accompanied by mushroom sauce. Serve the cutlets on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. A few fried forcemeat balls and some fried rashers of bacon should be served with them. The veal may be taken from the fillet instead of the neck, and then the meat should be cut into neat round pieces convenient for serving. Time to fiy cutlets half an inch thick, about fifteen minutes. Probable cost, from Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Veal Cutlets, Fried (another way).— Cut a slice of lean veal ahoTit the thii-d of an inch thick from the fillet. Divide this into neat cutlets convenient for serving. Prcixu-o