ROU ROY ( 774 ) powdered sugar, one pound of flour, and half a pound of picked and dried currants. Mix tho dry ingredients thoroughly, and make thorn into a stiff paste with three eggs beaten up with a glassful of hrandy and a table-spoonful of rose or orange-flower water. Sprinkle some mixed flour and powdered sugar over a baking- tin, drop the preparation upon it in small knobs, and bake these in a quick oven. No. 2. Beat four ounces of butter to cream, and add four ounces of sugar, six ounces of dried flour, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and a flavourmg of grated lemon, pounded almonds, and orange- flower or rose water. Beat the mixture briskly for a few minutes, and pour it into a shallow mould lined with buttered paper. Bake in a well-heated oven. Let it get cold, then cut it with a very sharp knife into small fancy shapes of any kind, and moisten these with white of egg beaten up with powdered white sugar. Crisp them before the tire, and when the icing is set put them in a cool dry place till wanted. Rout Cakes, Almond (Read's recipe).— Take one pound of sweet almonds and one poxmd of loaf sugar; beat yom- almonds and sugar quite fine, and make it into a moderate stiff paste with the yolk of egg (some use one egg and the rest yolk). Make them into any shape your fancy may dictate. Use finely-powdered loaf sugar to dust your board or blocks. In making them, place them on clean tins that are slightly buttered, so as not to touch, or lay a sheet of whitey-brown paper on the tin to put them on. Let them remain in a warm place all night, or a day and a night, before they are baked. Put them in a rather brisk oven; when lightly coloured over, they are done. Ornament them with nonpareils, candied peel, icing, &c., to fancy; make a mucilage of gum arable, and lay it, with a small brush, over the parts where you wish the nonpareils to adhere; this is done after they are baked. If you wish to cut your paste out of blocks, put it in a stewpan over the fire; .keep stirring it with a spoon or spaddle; stir it well to the bottom. When you find the paste does not stick to the sides of the pan, and comes alto- gether, it is done. Let it get cold before you cut it out. When the cakes are made in this way the impressions show much better. ROUX.—Roux is simply a mixture of flour and butter, which, when baked, is used for thickening soups and gravies. It is frequently spoken of as a brown or white thickening; it should be kept in a covered jar, and will remain good for months. A tea-spoonful is generally sufficient to thicken a pint of gravy. Roux, Brown.—Dissolve half a pound of fresh butter, skim it well, let it stand for a minute, and pour it away from the impurities, which will settle to the bottom. Put the clear oily part into a saucepan over a slow fire, and shake into it about seven or eight ounces of fine flour, or as much as will make a thick paste. Stir constantly, and heat the pre- paration slowly and equally until it is very thick and of a bright brown colour. Put it into a jar, and stir a spoonful into soup or gravy as it is needed. A tea-spoonful will thicken half a pint of gravy, lioux may be mixed with hot or cold stock. If cold, stir it over tho fire till it boils; if hot, moisten tlie roux gradually with the stock, and olf the fire to keep it from lumping. Roux, Brown, or Thickening {see Gravy, Brown Roux for Thickening). Roux, Brown, for Immediate Use. —Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan over a slow fire, and when it is dissolved shake into it an ounce and a half of dried flour. iStir with a wooden spoon until it has acquired a light- brown colour; this will take about ten minutes. Remove the roux from the fire for two minutes to cool, add a pint and a half of stock, stir this till it boils up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the tire, and let the sauce simmer till it is smooth and of a proper consistency. Roux, White.—Proceed as above, but be careful to remove the paste from the tire before it has acquired any colour. White roux is used for white sauces. Roux, White {see Gravy, White Roux for Thickening). Rowan.—The fruit of the rowan-tree or mountain-ash, when the bitter has been ex- tracted by soaking it in water, may be made into a preserv'e which used to find favour in some parts of Scotland. Royal Children's Puddings.—Slice a penny loaf, and pour upon it a pint and a haK of boiling milk. Let it stand till soft, then beat it lightly with a fork, and add a heaped table-spoonful of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg or any other flavouring, and four weU- beaten eggs. Half fill soma small buttered tea-cups with the mixture, and bake the pud- dings in a well-heated oven. If Uked, a slice of butter may be added, but its absence vriU render the puddings more digestible. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Royal Fritters.—Put a pint of new milk into a saucepan over the fire, and as it rises in the pan stir into it half a pint of light wine. Pour it out, and let it stand a few minutes to cool, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin. Beat it well with two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated lemon-rind or any other flavour- ing, three well-whisked eggs, and as much flour as will make a stiff batter. Fry the fritters in the usual way. Drain them well, and serve on a hot dish. Send cut lemons to table with the fritters. Royal Pastry.—Take four ounces of sweet almonds ground or finely pounded, with three or four bitter ones, mix them with a table- spoonful of powdered sugar, and add as much white of egg as will make a smooth paste. Mix an ounce of finely-sifted sugar with half a pound of flour. Rub four ounces of frceh butter into this, and make it into paste by stirring into it the white of an egg beaten up ynih. a little cold water. Roll this pastry- out. spread tho almond paste upon it, and stamp the two together into ftincy shapes of any size.