SKA ( 881 ) in fi hot dish, gamishod with fried parsley. Send caper sauce to table with them. Probable cost, 4 J. to 6d. per pound. Skate, Plain Boiled. — Take off the akin. Boil it in suit and water, and send it up on a clean cloth with shiimp sauce, or any- other sauce, in a boat. Skate, Sauces for.— The following sauces may all be served with skate:—White sauce, melted butter, onion sauce, parsley sauce, shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, tomato sauce, piquant sauce, and liver sauce. Well- made black butter sauce is excellent with skate. {See Skate with Black Butter.) Caper sauce is, perhaps, the sauce most usually served. Skate Soup.—The bones of skate are so delicate and gristly that they can easily be con- verted to jelly; consequently, good nourishing soup may be made of this fish. Clean two pounds of skate, and hang it in the open air for a day ;* cut it into small neat fillets, and put the trimmings and the head into a saucepan with two quarts of fish stock or water. Let it sim- mer gently for an hour, and carefully remove the scum as it rises; then add an onion, a turnip, a bunch of parsley, and a few sticks of celery, and simmer all gently together till the liquor is reduced to one quart. When this point is reached, the soup may be finished in two ways: either thicken the sauce with a little brown thickening, add the fillets, simmer them tiU done enough, and flavour the soup with a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, a glass of sherry, and pepper and salt if required; or drop two ounces of vermicelli into the soup, and when it is done enough, which it will be in a few minutes, mix with the soup a quarter of a pint of cream beaten up with the yolk of an egg, stir it over the fire for eight or ten n^^nutes, but on no account allow it to boil, and serve very hot. When the soup is finished in the latter of these two ways, it is well to boil all the skate in the stock, and thus dispense with the fillets. Time, two hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. 4d. pe> pint. Sufiicient for six or eight persons. Skate Soup (a maigre soup).—Take four pounds of skate, and boil them in four quarts of water tiU the water is reduced one-half; then add six onions, some turnips, celery, carrots, sweet herbs, and parsley. When boiled enough, strain, and thicken with butter rolled in flour. Fry the inside of a roll, chop up some of the fish with a little parsley and butter, and add these to the soup before serving. Two or thi-ee anchovies, some anchovy sauce, or a red her- ring may be boiled in this soup without de- stroying its meagre character. Skate, Stewed.—Skin the skate on both sides, and cut it into neat pieces ; fry these in hot fat till they are nicely browned ; take them up, drain them, and lay "them aside. Put the head, skin, and trinmiings into a saucepan with two pints of water, an onion, and a little pepper and salt. Let the gravy simmer gently till it is strong, then strain it; put it back into the saucepan, thicken with brown thickening, and add half a dozen chives or a moderate-sized onion finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of chiUi vinegar, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a table-spoonful of Harvey's Sauce. Let the sauce boil till it is thick enough to coat the spoon; heat the fish in it, and serve. Time, five or six minutes to heat the fish. Skate, Teased.—Take the dried wing oi a moderate-sized skate, skin it, and cut it into slips about the size of a finger. Put it into water which has been boiled with a little salt and vinegar, and let it boil until done enough. Take it up, put it into a moderately-heated oven, and let it remain until it is quite tender. Draw out the bones, put the flesh into a soft cloth, and rub it between the palms of the hands until it is broken up and looks like wool. Dissolve six ounces of fresh butter in a sauce- pan, put in the skate, add pepper and salt, and stir the fish over a gentle fire till it is heated throughout. Send egg sauce, parsnips, and mashed potatoes to table with it. Time alto- gether, about an hour. Sufficient for four or five persons. Skate, To Clean and Prepare.—Wash the fish, and rub them over with salt. Rinse them, cut ofl: the tails, and pare the fins all round. Hang them in a cool airy situatior". They will keep three or four days in cool weather. Skate with Black Butter.—Fry some parsley very green. Dish the skate accord- ing to taste. For a first-course dish you must either cut it into the shape of kites or rounds. Put the fried parsley in the middle of the dish, and the butter under the fish. Beurre noire is made in an omelet-pan. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into the pan, and let it become very brown without burning ; skim oflE the froth; add to it salt, pepper, and vinegar, and pour this over the fish, and the fried parsley into the centre. This dish does not look well, but it is relishing when well done. Skate with Black Butter Sauce (excellent).—Take about two pounds of white skate. Wash it well, and put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as wiU barely cover it, a cupful of vinegar, a sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, skim it, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently for ten minutes. Five minutes before the skate is done enough put in the liver, and boil it also. Take up the skate, drain and trim it, and skin it on both sides. Put it on a dish, sprinkle a little salt and pepper on it, place the liver on the side, and garnish with fried parsley. Have ready prepared a little brown butter sauce; pour this over the fish, and servi; immediately. The sauce may be made as fol- lows :—Put four ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan, and stir it over a sharp fire till it is brown without being burnt. Add two table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, two table-spoon- fuls of Harvey's Sauce, a table-spoonful of bruised capers, a quarter of a pint of brown sauce, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Simmer all gently for five minutes, and serve. Time altogether, about three-quar- ters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, skate, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persona.