( 940 ) sua sua the syrup is quite dear. If it is not properly cleared it will rise over the pan wlien it is boiled to a height. 8traiii the syrup through muslin, and it will bo fit for use or for fm-ther boiling. To prevent waste, the scuin should bo laid on a sieve, and any syrup that runs from it should be boiled up again. First Degree, named Candied Sugar.—Take the sugar clai-itied as above, and put it again on the fire. Let it boil till smooth. Dip the hand quickly in and out of cold water to keep it from being burnt; take from the skimmer a drop of the syrup, press it quickly, draw it apart, and if it forms a brittle thread it has attained the fii'st degree. Second Degree, named Souffle, or Blown Sugar. —Boil the candied sugar still longer. Dip in the skimmer, \fiake off the sugar, and blow strongly thi-ou^ the holes of the skimmer. A\'Tien the sugar forms into bubbles it has attained the second degree. Third Degree, named Feathered Sugar.—Boil the blown sugar still longer. Dip the skimmer again in the pan, shake off the sugar, then give it a quick toss. If it flies off hke down or feathers it has attained the third degree. Fourth Degree, named Crackling Sugar.—Boil the feathered sugar a short time longer. Dip a si.ick in the sugar, and plunge it instantly into cold water. If the sugar that hangs to the stick becomes instantly hard the sugar has attained the fourth degree. In making this experiment the cook must be careful that the water in which she tries the sugar is perfectly cold. If it is not she may be misled. If the sugar is intended for barley-sugar, a little grated lemon or essence of lemon should now be added, and the sugar should be poured upon a broad dish; and when the edges begin to harden it should be divided into strips and twisted. If there is any fear that the sugar will grain or return again to powder a little lemon-juice may be added. Fifth Degree, named Caramel.—Boil the sugar until when a Kttle is put into cold water it hardens instantly and snaps like glass. Squeeze in a little lemon-juice; let the sugar remain one minute longer on the fire, then, if it is wanted for sugar spinning, set the pan in another of cold water, and the caramel will be ready for use. Care should be taken ihat the fire is not very fierce when the sugar is being boiled, for if it flames up at the sides of the pan it may burn and spoil the sugar. Spun sugar is a pretty ornament for sweetmeats, and may be made of sugar thus prepared. Moulds of a suitable size and form should be oiled with almond oil, and then with a fork the sugar should be spread over them in fine threads of chain or network. These moulds will look very pretty if placed upon an iced cake, and they can be used several times if they are carefully handled. One way of performing this really difficult operation is to tie two forks together with the prongs out- wards, dip them lightly in the sugar, take them out, and shake them backwards and forwards over the oiled moulds or whatever else is to be covered. The manufacture of spun sugar belongs rather to the skill of the confectioner, however, than to that of the cook. Sugar Browning, for Colourina Soups, Sauces, and Made Dishes.-^ When sauces and made-dislics need to bo thickened as well as browned, roux or Ijrown thickening should be used. When the cxAont only is required, it may often be eufiiciently imparted by means of a little claret or mush- room ketchup, or by frying the meat and onions used till they are a light-brown colour, or by stewing onion-skins or burnt onions in the sauce. Some cooks adopt the slovenly and dan- gerous practice of melting a knob of sugar in an iron spoon, and adding this to the prepara- tion; but this plan is almost ceilain to give to the sauce a bitter, burnt taste. Sugar brown- ing is a convenient preparation, which will give to the sauce the requisite brown colour, and if it be carefully made there will be no fear that it will impart an unpleasant taste. To make it, proceed as follows :—Take a quarter of a pound of good brown sugar; put it into a delicately-clean saucepan, and stir it without ceasing over a gentle fire till it melts and begins to acquire a little colour. Draw it back, and let it bake slowlj*, still stirring, until it is almost black without being at all biuTit. Pour a quart of water upon it, let it boil gently until dissolved, skim it, strain through muslin, put the preparation when cold into small bottles, stop- per closely, and it wiU be fit for use. If hked, this browning may be slightly flavoured by the addition of ketchup, cloves, onions, pepper, and salt; but it is more likely to be generally useful if it is quite plain. Time to prepare, about an hour. Sufficient, a few di-ops will colour a pint of gravy. Sugar, Burnt, or Caramel {see Caramel or Burnt Sugar). Sugar Cakes.—Rub haK a poimd of fre,sh butter to cream; then add half a pound of powdered sugar, three well-whisked eggs, one pound of flour, and as much milk as will form a dough. The milk and flour should be added alternately. Roll the pastrj' out, cut it in small round cakes, and bake these on a floiured tin in a moderate oven. Sugar, Clarified, for Fresh-water Ices.—Break two pounds of refined sugar into small pieces, and put these into a saucepan with two pints of cold water. Let the sugar dissolve, then add a tea-spoonful of white of egg lightly beaten. As the scum rises take it off, and keep the sugar boiling until the scimi ceases to rise. When it is quite clear, strain it through muslin, and it wiU be fit for use. If liked, it may be put into a bottle and closely stoppered. It will keep for some time. Time to boil, ten minutes. Sugar, Coloured.—Crush some lump sugar coarsely. Drop a little prepared cochineal upon the palms of the hands, and rub the sugar between them tiU it is equally coloured. Put it in a warm place, and when dry it wiU be ready for use. Spinach-juice may be used to colour the sugar green, and an infusion of saffron to colour it yellow. Chocolate will impart a brown tint, and a little indigo a blue tint. Pink sugar- candy is very pretty for ornamenting cakes and aweet dishes.