( 769 ) BOL BOM ■with a;yenne, and fill to the top with rich wnite sauce. Lay on tho cover, tie it on with tvnne, and put the rolls in a Dutch oven before' a clear firo until they are brown and quite hot. If liked, the oysters can be stewed before being put into the rolls. Rolls, Polenta. — Polenta is the name under which Italian flour or maize is sold at the foreign warehouses in this country. It is much superior in quality to that which is imported from America, and is harvested with more care; but its consumption here is comparatively small, and it is sold at a price which must, while it is maintained, prevent its general use for bread, of which it makes a pleasant variety when mixed with twice the quantity of wheaten flour. Blend intimately in an earthen pan one pint of the polenta with a quart of the best flour, and rather less than the usual proportion of salt. DUute gradually a dessert-spoonful of solid yeast, or half an ounce of German yeast, with a pint of wai-m new nulk (a few spoonfuls more than this quantity may be required, but it is better not to add it at first), and make the dough up at once. Let it be firm without being hard, as it will become lithe in rising. Leave it covered with a cloth imtil it appears quite Hght; then knead it down thorougWy, and let it again stand to rise. Divide it into large roUs, place them some distance apart on a floured tin, and bake them in a moderate oven from three- quarters of an hour to an hour. The polenta imparts a pleasant flavour to this bread, which eats almost Uke rice-cake, which it may be made to resemble still further by dissolving an ounce of butter ia the milk with which it is mixed. Bolls, Turkish. — Take six ounces of Jordan almonds, a pint and a half of milk, two to three pounds of best flour, and half to three- quarters of an ounce of German yeast. Blanch and pound the almonds to a perfectly smooth paste, moisten them gradually with boiling milk or thin cream, and let them simmer together for a few minutes. Wring—with strong pressure— the milk from the almonds through a tamis or a thick cloth, and employ it like ordinary milk for making the requisite quantity of flour into dough. If liked, the dough may be slightly tinged with saflEron, and sweetened with a little pounded sugar. Bolls, Veal.—Cut thin slices of undressed veal, or, if preferred, take slices of xrnder- dressed meat. Spread on each one a seasoning of minced bacon, chopped parsley, stewed and minced mushrooms, pepper, salt, and pounded mace, together with a few finely-grated bread- crumbs. Roll the meat up, and tie it securely with twine. Put those into a saucepan with as much nicely-flavoured brown gravy as wiU cover them, and then let them simmer gently imtil tender. Put the rolls on a hot dish with the gravy poured over them, and serve very hot. Boly-poly Pudding.—The pastry for this favourite pudding may be made in "three or tf)ur ways, according to the degree of richnoss required. For a superior pudding mix Z a pound of flour with half a pound of very finely-shred suet, freed from skin and fibre. Add a good pinch of salt, an egg, and nearly half a pint of nulk. Roll it out three or four times. For a plainer pudding, mix five or six ounces of suet with a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, and make a paste by stirring in half a pint of water. TNTien suet is objected to, rub six oimces of butter or six ounces of sweet dripping into a pound of flour, and pro- ceed as before. When a smaller quantity still of dripprag is used, the addition of a spoonful of baking-powder will help to make the pastry light. Roll out the pastry to a long thir form, a quarter of an inch thick, and of a width to suit the size of the saucepan in which it is to be boiled. Spread over it a layer of any kind of jam, and be careful that it does not reach the edges of the pastry. Begin at one end, and roll it up to fasten the jam inside, moisten the edges, and press them securely together. Dip a cloth in boiling water, flour it weU, and tie the pudding tightly in it. Plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, at the bottom of which a plate has been laid to keep the pudding from burning, and boil quickly until done enough. If it is necessary to add more water, let it be put in boiling. Marmalade, treacle, sliced lemon and sugar, lemon-juice and sugar, chopped apples and currants, either separately or together, may be used instead of jam for a change. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size. Boly-poly Pudding, Apple {see Apple Roly-poly Pudding). Boly-poly Pudding, Jam {see Jam Roly-poly Pudding). Boly - poly Pudding, Lemon {set Lemon Roly-poly Pudding). Boly-poly Pudding, Prune {see Prune Roly-poly Pudding). Boman Granito {see Granite, Roman) Boman Qniocchi.—Put three ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan with half a pint of boUing water and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. As soon as the water reaches the boiling point stir in very gradually six ounces of fine flour, and beat the batter with a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth and leaves the saucepan in a lump with the spoon; then add the yolks of four eggs, the whites of two, and two table-spoonfula of grated Parmesan. Work the pastrj' briskly for two or three minutes, then roll it into the form of small sausages, and dredge flour upon it to keep it from sticking to the fingers. Throw the roUs into boiling water, and keep them boiling for ten minutes. Drain them, lay them on a dish, pour a little good brown gravy over them, and serve very hot. Time to boU the gniocchi, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Boman Punch, Iced.—Put two pounds of finely - powdered sugar into a bowl, and strain over it the juice of ten lemons and two sweet orfmges, Add the thin ri^d of a lemon.