( 624 ) PEA PEA Pearlina Pudding, Baked, without Eggs. —- Butter a pio-dish mthor tliickly. Pour into it a quart of milk, and atir in four tablo-spoonfuls of Brown and Poison's poarlina. Add half an ounco . of butter, a pinch of salt, and two or throo drops of any flavouring that may be proforrod. Put the puddinf^ into a slow ovon, and bako very gently until it is nicely browned. Servo with powdered sugar. Time, about two hours and a half to bake. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pearlina Pudding, Boiled. —Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with two square inches of thin lemon-rind, half an inch of stick cinnamon, three or four almonds blanched and bruised, or any other flavouring that may be preferred. Bring it slowly to a boil, then eprinkle in very gradually three table-spoonfuls of Brown and Poison's pearlina, and stir the mixture briskly over the fire for a quarter of an hour. Turn it into a bowl, and mix with it half an ounce of fresh butter, a small pinch of salt, three dessert-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and half an ounce of candied peel sliced very finely, and a well-beaten egg. Pour the pud- ding into a well-buttered mould which it will quite fill, tie a floured cloth securely over it, plunge the mould into a saucepan three-parts filled with boiling water, and keep the pudding boiling until it is done enough. Move it about during the first quarter of an hour to prevent the ingredients settling to the bottom. When the pudding is done enough, turn it on a hot dish, and send melted butter or sweet sauce to table in a tureen. Time, one hour to boil the pudding. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pearlina Pudding, Cold, To Make Use of the Remains of a.—Carefully remove; tlio alciii and brown parts from the pudding, and press the remainder into a plain basin. Place a weight upon it so that it may take the form of the mould, and when wanted turn it out on a glass dish, and put stewed fruit or jam round it. Time, a few minutes to prepare the pudding. Pears, Baked.—Rub half a dozen large hard pears with a soft cloth. Put them on a buttered baking-tin into a slow oven, and let them bake gently for five or six hours. When tender they are done enough, and will be found excellent if eaten with sugar. Pro- bable cost, 4d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pears, Baked (another way).—Pare very smoothly a dozen large baking pears. Cut them into halves, take out the cores, and put them side by side into a well-brightened block- tin saucepan with a closely-fitting cover. Pom- over them as much cold water as will cover them, add the thin rind of a small lemon, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, an inch of stick cinnamon, and fifteen grains of allspice. Put on the cover, place the dish in a gentle oven, and let it remain there until the poarR arc tender. A little white wine may bo added, if Uked. If a saucepan such as is described is used, no cochine-al will be reaiiired for the syrup. Time to bake, six hours. Probable cost, 1b. 8d. Sufficient for eight or ten per. sons. Pears, Compete of.—When ripe juicy l)oarM are used for making compotes they should be stewed whole, but wh(;n hard baking pears oidy are to bo had it is best to cut them into halves or quarters, reserving only one largo piece to put in the centre. Peel the pears, and put them into the syrup. The pro- portion of sugar used wiU depend upon the quality of the pears. Put with them a few drops of prepared cochineal, and either a strip of lemon-rind, a quarter of a stick of vanilla, or a few cloves. Simmer very gently until they are quite tender without being broken, then drain them well, put them on a dish, boil the syrup quickly until it is thick : when it is cold, and just before the compote is to be served, strain, and pour the sjTTip over the fruit. The pears are to be boiled until tender. Probable cost. Is. 4d. for a dish. Sufficient for five or six persons. KZARS. 1. Louise Bonne, 2. Marie Louise. 3. Uvedaie's St. Germain. Pears, Essence of Jargonelle.—The article sold imder this name is the acetate of the oxide of amyl, mixed with spirits of wine. It very closely resembles the natural flavour of pears. Pears, Frosted or Iced.—Take half a doz6n large pears, which have been stewed whole in syrup. Dry them well, then cover them smoothly and evenly with a white icing made as follows:—Beat the white of an egg to a firm froth, add a quarter of a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a few drops of cold water, and beat the mixture thoroughly until it forms a very thick smooth liquid. When the pears are covered, set them in a warm place, or in a cool oven, to stiffen the icing. Probable cost, 2d. each. Sufficient for a dessert-dish. Pears, Giblets with Giblets with Pears). Pears in Jelly (a pretty dish for a Juve- nile Party).—Peel six or eight largo pears, cut