* SWE ( 951 ) SWI and Pkinciples of Cookeky, page iv.) Be- fore frying it, stir into it a very small quantity of chopped sweet herbs. Parsley, chervil, and chives are the herbs most frequently chosen. Onions or shallots, thyme, and sage, may be introduced if liked. Sweet Jellies. — These preparations, though elegant in appearance, and when nicely flavoured delicious to the taste, are not really so nourishing as they were at one time thought to be. Calf's-foot jelly is good, certainly, but isinglass and gelatine do not possess much value in the sick room. These jelHes constitute, however, pretty ornamental dishes, which are useful, and exceedingly convenient. No diffi- culty need be experienced in making jelly clear and bright, if the instructions given in Calf's Foot Jelly, and Isinglass, and Gelatine Jelly, are closely followed. Sweet Jelly.—Soak an ounce of best gelatine in water for an hour. Drain it, and pour upon it half a pint of boiling water, then stir it until dissolved. Add the juice and peel of two lemons, and six ounces of loaf sugar, together with a large wine-glassful of wine or any approved liqueur, and as much cold water as will make up the quantity to one quart. Beat the whites of two eggs to froth. Briskly stir them with the crushed shells of the eggs into the liqueur, which should be almost cold. Bring it slowly to the boil, and let it simmer gently without touching it for ten minutes. Take it off the fire, and let it stand to settle for ten minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear and bright. When it is again cool, put it into one or more moulds, and let it stand in a cool place till it is stiff. When it is wanted, plunge it for a single instant into boiling water, turn it upon a glass dish, and serve. Time, eight or ten hours will be needed to stiffen the jelly if it is not set upon ice. Probable cost, Is. 2d., exclusive of the wine or liqueur. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Sweetmeats, Brown.—Take the remains of any kind of candied preparation. Pound it well, and pass it through a sieve. Mix with it beaten eggs to form a stiff paste, and flavour this with any suitable flavouring. Work a little flour into the paste. Koll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it into shapes, place these on white paper, and bake in a gentle oven till they are stiff. Time to bake, about half an hour. Sweet Patties.—Sweet patties may be made of various ingredients, and in a variety of ways {see Patties, Preparation of). The mince to fill them will be excellent if made as fol- lows :—Take the meat of a boiled calf's-foot one which has been stowed down for stock may be utilised in this way—drain it well, mince it finely, and mix with it a table-spoonful of finely-shrcd suet, three apples, pared, cored, and chopped small, a spoonful of candied peel chopped small, the pounded yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, the strained juice of a lemon, and a little of the grated rind: sugar to taste, and add n small glassful of wine. Put this mince into pastry, and bake the patties in the usual way. Sweet Pickles Pickles, Sweet, Ameri- can). Sweet Sauce for Puddings.-Take half a pint of good melted butler made witli milk, sweeten it, and flavour with cinnamon, grated nutmeg, or bitter almonds. Serve very hot. Two table-spoonfuls of cream stirred into the sauce at the last moment will help to enrich it. Time, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Sweet Sauce for Venison.—Dissolve two table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and stir into it a glassful of port or claret. Do not let the sauce boil. Or stir two or three good- sized lumps of sugar into a quarter of a pint of venison gravy until dissolved. Add a large glassful of port or claret, and serve. Sweet Spice, Pastrycook's.—This is made by mixing together two parts of sugar, one part of cassia, one part of nutmeg, one jjart of mace, and the same of cloves. Swiss Apple Pudding {see Apple, Switss, Pudding). Swiss Cocoa-nut Pudding.—Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely-gi'ated bread-crumbs, and add two ounces of grated cocoa-nut, six ounces of strawberry or any other jam, and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Beat two eggs with the milk of the cocoa-nut, or three table-spoonfuls of milk. Pour this liquor over the pudding, and let it stand .to soak for an hour. Butter a mould thickly. Beat the pudding till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, and put it into the mould. Tie it in a cloth, plunge it into fast- boiling water, and boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar thickly upon it, and serve. Time to boil, three hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Swiss Condensed Cream {see Milk, Condensed Swiss Cream.—Crumble a quarter of a pound of macaroons and two or three penny sponge cakes, or use a mixture of macaroons and ratafias. Lay the crumbs in a glass dish. Pour over them a glassful of sherry, and spread a spoonful or two of jam upon them. If a plain dish is required, the sherry or the jam, or both, may be omitted. Simmer the thin rind of half a lemon, or a little piece of vanilla, in half a cupful of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured. Add a pint of cream and as much sugar as wiU sweeten it pleasantly. Mix a table-spoonful of corn-flour smoothly with a little cold milk, and add this gi-adually to the rest. Stir the mixture over a gentle fire till it boils; pour it out, and stir it again till it is almost cold. Add the juice of a lemon, and pour the cream over the cakes in the dish. Ornament the top with bright-coloured jelly or jam, or with strips of angelica. If liked, two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot may be substituted for the corn-flour, or a table-spoonful of flour even may be used The cream should stand ii>