(8M) BAIi SAL thorn on a very slow fire on both sides. When thoy are done, take off the skin, and di-ain tliem on a clean towel to draw out all the oil. Dish them, and cover over with the caper sauce. Let it be understood that the gridiron must bo on a slope, with a plafond under the fore-feet to receive the oil, the smoke of which if it fall into the fire would spoil the fish, and fill the kitchen with smoke and a disagreeable odour. Cover the slices with caper sauce. Salmon, Crimped, with Lobster oauce.—balmon should always bo put into bodmg water at first. Cold water would draw out Its colour and taste. It must not, however, be cooked too much. Serve up with lobster eauce. Some like plain parsley and butter with it. Salmon Cromeskys.—Take the remains of dressed salmon, free it from skin and bone, and tear the flesh into flakes. Put it into a saucepan with a small proportion of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, and the yolks of three eggs. A spoonful of minced truffles may be added, or not. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes till the eggs are set, then spread the preparation an inch thick on a plate, and leave it tni cold. Divide it into equal- sized portions, and mould these in the form of corks. When the cromeskys are to be served, dip them separately into fi-jong batter, and fry in hot fat till they are brown and crisp. Drain, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. The batter may be made as follows : ■—Put five ounces of flour into a bowl. Add a pinch of salt, and mix it smoothly with a quarter of a pint of water. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of oil; stii- the mixture into the batter, and add more water if necessary.. Ten minutes before the batter is ■wanted, add the whites of the eggs whisked to froth. Time to fry the cromeskys, three or four minutes. Salmon Crumbs.—This is a highly- esteemed dish in the North of Ireland. A quantity of cold boiled salmon is diAdded into very small fragments, and mixed with bread- crumbs, an egg or two well whisked, butter, pepper, salt, and a little vinegar; after which it is put in a pudding-dish, and baked in an oven. The proportion of the ingredients is not very definite, but is variously regulated according to taste. Vinegar is often used with this dish. Salmon, Cured or Salted.—Split open and bone the fish. Wipe it with a soft cloth, sprinkle salt over it, and leave it for twenty- four hours. Pour oft the liquor, wipe the fish dry, cut it into pieces of a convenient size, rub these well with pounded saltpetre, and pack closely in a pot, with salt between the layera. If the salt is not dissolved in three or four days make a strong brine, and pour it, when cold, over the fish, which must be kept covered with the liquor. Salmon, Curried.—Cut two moderate- sized onions into slices, and fry them in hot fat tUl they begin to turn yellow. Mix a table- spoonful of curry powder, and a dcsscrt-ppoon- ful of rurry paste very smoothly with a small quantity of good stock. Add more to make the quantity up to a pint, and pour it over the onions. Let all simmer gently for a few minutes, then rub the sauce patiently through a fine hair- sieve, return it to the saucepan, let it boil, and put into it two i)ounds of sahnon which have been divided into small squaie pieces convenient for serving. Skim the fat from the sauce, and simmer the salmon gently until it is done enough, A little garlic or lemon-juice may be added, or not. Serve with rice on a separate dish. The remains of dressed sahnon may be curried, and will need only to simmer in the sauce until they are quite hot. Time to simmer fresh salmon, about half an hour. Probable cost, salmon, when plentiful. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Salmon Cutlets (a la Llaitre d'Hotel).— Cut some slices of salmon in the shape of chops. Put them into a saute-pan with some clarified butter, pepper, and salt, and toss them when dinner-time is come over an equal fire. Drain the butter well, and dish the sUces of sahnon like a crown. Serve with maitre d'hotel sauce. For salmon you must not use any cream, as this fish is already heavy for the stomach; put into a stewpan three spoonfuls of sauce toumee well reduced; add to it a thickening of one egg, and refine the sauce with a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt, a little cayenne, tho juice of half a lemon, and some parsley chopped very fine ; work this sauce very fine, and use it when wanted. You may give this dish with several different sauces, as marechal, Dutch caper, Maintenon, ravigote, &c. &c.— Salmon Cutlets, Broiled. — Salmon cutlets are cut out of the middle or large end of the fish. Clean the fish, scrape off the scales, and cut slices through it half an inch thick. Leave the skin on. Dip the cutlets in clarified butter, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, lay them on a hot gridiron, and broil gently over a clear fire. Turn them over every three or four minutes tiU they are done. Sei-ve on a hot dish, with a little piece of butter upon each cut- let. No sauce is required, but if it is preferred, lobster or crab sauce may be sent to table in a tureen; or a sauce may be prepared as fol- lows :—Take a quarter of a pint of good gra'<^^ Mix with it a tea-spoonful of -vinegar, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, half a tea- spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, and a tea-spoonful of finely minced mixed pickles. Boil the sauce, thicken with a little flour, and serve. Time to broil the fish, fifteen to twenty minutes, accord- ing to thickness. Sufficient, two large cutlets for five or six persons. Salmon Cutlets, Broiled en Papil- lotes.—Prepare the cutlets as before. Lay each sUce on half a sheet of buttered or oiled writing-paper, put a similar sheet over it, and twist the edges securely together. Put the cutlets on a hot gridiron, and broil gently over a clear fire. Move thorn occasionally to -.■ keep them from bimiing. They may be served ^ in the papers or not, as preferred. Unless the '. appearance is very good it will be better that the paper should be removed, and this must be done v.ith grrut cnro. Tinio to broil tho j, BJilmon, fifteen to twenty minutes, acconimg ' to tliicknufis.