STB STR ( 929 ) nocessar}'. If, however, they are dusty or not qiiito fresh, they may be cleansed and freshened by taking them in handfuls and passing them quickly through a basin of cold water. They should not be allowed to remain in it one instant. If the strawberries have been gathered in rainy weather, it is very desirable that this cleansing process should be performed. Straw- berries are very delicious served with thick cream (Devonshire cream is the best) and finely- powdered sugar. These accompaniments should be sent to table separately, as if the sugar is put upon them, even for a short time, it will draw out their juice and change their colour. STRAWBERRIES. 1. Keen's Seedling. 2. British Queen. 3. Dr. Hogg. (Two-thirds the natural size.) Strawberries, Bottled. — Gather the strawberries in dry weather when they are ripe, but not over-ripe. Pick them without bruising them, and put them into perfectly dry wide-mouthed bottles. Shake them down, and fill the bottles with clear sjTup made by boil- ing three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar with half a pint of water. Cork the bottles tightly, and tie them down with string. "Wrap straw round them to keep them from being broken, and put them into a large stewpan with cold water up to their necks. Let the water be made to boil, then draw the pan to the side, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and leave the bottles untouched till they are cold. Kefit the corks, tie them down again, if neces- sary wax them over, and store for use. Time to simmer, ten minutes. Strawberries, Bottled, for Flavour- ing Purposes.—Gather the fruit in dry weather, pick it from the bolls, discard any bruised or unsound berries, and weigh it with an equal weight of finely-powdered sugar. Fill perfectly dry wide-mouthed bottles with alter- nate layers of fruit and sugar, and shake them gently to mix them. Cork the bottles closely, and cover the corks with bladder which has been cleaned, dried, and moistened with spirit on the side which is to be next the cork. Store in a cool dry place. The strawberries should bo perfectly fresh when they are thus preserved 2 £ Strawberries, Compote of.—Take a pint of freshly-gathered ripe strawberries. Pick them, and put them into a bowl. Pour over them a Little clear syrup which has been made by boiling a quarter of a pint of water with five ounces of sugar for ten minutes. Cover the bowl containing them with a plate, and let them stand for an hour or more. Drain off the syrup; boil it for a few minutes, skim it, and strain it over the strawberries piled in the centre of a compote-dish. The flavour of this dish will be greatly improved if a wine-glassful of red- currant juice is added to the syrup. "When it is at hand, a glass of maraschino may also be added with advantage. For a superlative dish, the syrup, after being flavoured with maraschino or kii-schenwasser, may be set in ice till it is almost frozen, and in this condition poured over the fruit. Time to soak the strawberries, one hour. Probable cost, strawberries, 4d. to 8d. per pound. Strawberries, Indian.—This plant is a native of the Himalaya mountains, and grows luxuriantly, and produces fruit in abundance in Britain, if only protected from severe frosts. The flowers of the Indian strawberry are yellow, not white, and the fi'uit is very beautiful, not hanging down as in the case of other straw* berries, but growing with its apex upwards. It is not, however, of a very tempting quality. Strawberries, Preserved.—The fruit must be gathered in very dry weather, when there has been no rain for at least two days. Take equal weights of loaf sugar broken into pieces and picked fruit. Barely cover the sugar with cold water, and add a pinch of cream of tartar. Melt the sugar, put it on the fire, and boil it until a little of it which has been dropped from the end of a spoon into some very cold water can be rolled into a soft ball, which is not at all sticky. "When the sugar has reached this condition put the straw- berries into it, cover the pan, and leave it for an hour. Place it on a quick fire, boil it for two minutes, skim it well, and it is done. There is another method of preserving straw- berries or raspberries which is very much approved. Pick the fruit, and press it with a wooden spoon through a coarse sieve. Weigh it, and allow a pound of sugar to every pound of pulp. Boil the sugar, and as soon as it has attained the fourth degree {see Sugar, Boiled) mix the pulp with it. Let it stand for five minutes, stir it over the fire till it boils, and it is done. If liked, the sugar, instead of being boiled, may be crushed to powder and incor- porated with the pulp, which must then be put into bottles, and boiled as in Straw- berries, Bottled. There is another mode of preserving them whole, by placing them, when they are fresh-gathered, into glass pickle- bottles, strewing their weight of sifted sugar over as they are put in, and filling up the bottles with either boiling-hot malaga wine or boiling sweet malmsey. This is the most expensive, though the least troublesome. {See next recipe.) Strawberries Preserved in "Wine.— Take the fruit when perfectly ripe and fresh; pick it, and put it immediately into dry wide-