( 936 ) STU it with the sauce. In order to keep it thick and white, mix with it a little thick cream. Sturgeon, Baked.—Take a small stur- geon, skm and cloanao it thoroughly, and_ re- move the inside. Lay it in a large baking- dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it, together with a little pepper and salt. Moisten with a tumblerful of white wine; lay some little pieces of butter here and there upon the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste frequently. When it is nicely browned, serve the sturgeon on a hot dish with its own sauce poured round it. Time to bake, about an hour. Sturgeon, Baked (another way).—Split the sturgeon. Make a marinade either with wine or vinegar, and pour it into a vessel large enough to contain the fish, which cover with buttered paper to prevent its getting too high a colour. Baste frequently with the marinade. When the sturgeon is done, have the sauce made as in the recipe Sturgeon, Roasted, and use it to mask the fish. Put the marinade in the dish with the sturgeon, but you may put skewers across the dish to prevent the fish from touching the liquid. If the fish is boiled in the liquid it will be thready, and not 80 palatable. Baste the fish with the marinade. Sturgeon, Baked (a la Reine).—This is an expensive though a superior dish. Take a piece of sturgeon weighing about four pounds, cleanse thoroughly, skin it, roU, and bind it firmly with tape; put it into a saucepan with a glassful of vinegar and as much water as will cover it, and add a carrot, an onion, a little salt and pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it simmer gently until done enough. Drain it, and let it cool. Prepare as much forcemeat of whiting as will entirely cover the surface of the sturgeon {see Quenelles of Cod, Salmon, &c.). Lay this on the fish, and smooth it with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water. Orna- ment with pink tongue, black truffles, and pickled gherkins cut into fancy shapes. Roll it in buttered paper, and fasten securely. Put it into a baking-dish, pour under it about a pint of the liquor in which it was boiled, and bake it, basting occasionally with its liquor, in a gentle oven. Place it on a dish, garnish with prawns and tufts of green parsley, and pour over or serve with it a little well-made luvigote sauce. Time to bake the sturgeon, three-quarters of an hour. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. ' Probable cost, sturgeon, from Is. 6d. per pound. Sturgeon, Blanquette of (a la Pay- sanne).—When you have some roasted sturgeon returned, keep it to make a blanquette. Pare some round pieces nicely the size of half a crown, and put them into a sauce a blan- quette, to which add a little chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon. This blanquette is sent to table like all others in a vol-au- vent, or a casserole, with rice, &c. Sturgeon, Blanquette of, with Peas. —If you have any sturgeon left that is still very fresh, make a blanquetLC with peas, which, not requiring to be highly seasoned, will admit only of fish which is extremely sweet. After having simmered the peas as they are always prepared for the second course, take three spoonfuls of sauce toumee, and reduce it with four spoonfuls of the peas, adding a very small bit of sugar. When your sauce is very thick, put to it a thickening of two yolks of eggs, then put the sturgeon to it, and serve either in a vol-au-vent, or in a border of potatoes. Ob- serve that in this dish the seasoning must be very mild. Sturgeon, Boiled. — Cut the fish into thin slices like veal cutlets, rub them over with a little butter and give a sprinkling of pepper. Serve very hot with lemon garnish. Take great care to cut off the skin before the fish is boiled, as the oil in the skin if burnt imparts a very rank flavour. Sturgeon, Choosing of.—The flesh of this fish is partly white with a few blue veins, the grain even, the skin tender, good- coloured, and soft. All the veins and gristles should be blue ; for when they are brown and yellow, and the skin harsh, tough, and dry, the fish is not good. It has a pleasant smell when in perfection, but a very disagreeable one when bad. It should also cut firm, without crum- bling. The females are as full of roe as a carp. Sturgeon, Croquettes of.—Sturgeon is a fish absolutely resembling veal, and when fresh is as white as very fine veal; when red, nothing can be done with it. If there is any re- turned of a very good white, but not sufficient to make a croquette, make it into small timballes. Cut the sturgeon into dice, and put them into a sauce similar to that mentioned in Timballes of Turbot (see Turbot.) After having cut enough fish into dice to make the croquettes, take a bechamel and some mushrooms cut into dice, to which add a small lump of butter, salt, &c., and put the fish into that sauce. Let them cool, and then dip them into crumbs of bread, as described for other croquettes. Fry them of a good colour, and serve some fried parsley in the centre of the dish. Sturgeon Cutlets. — Cut the sturgeon into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Wash these, dry them in a cloth, flour them, and dip them into egg and seasoned bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat until they are nicely browned on both sides, drain them, and serve with piquant or tomato sauce. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes. Sturgeon, Presh^, Grilled. —Cut the sturgeon into slices an inch thick. Dry these and dip them into egg and seasoned bread- crumbs, and fasten them in papers saturated with butter, or simply brush them over with salad-oil, and sprinkle salt and pepper upon them. Broil them over a clear fire until they are sufficiently cooked on both sides. Serve with melted butter, oyster, or anchovy sauce, or with piquant sauce to which a few drops of essence of anchovy and a small piece of butter have been added. Time to grill, about fifteen minutes, the time varying with the size and age of the fish. Sturgeon, Fried.—Cut the fish into slices, and fry in the usual manner; then potir