( 1074 ) VEG VEG and mix them together. For a quart •£ vegeta- bles ehop small four moderate-sized ouious. Fry them in butter or fat till they begin to turn yellow, then stir tlie vegetables into them, and keep stirring till they are quite hot. Seiison tlie mixture rather highly with wliito pepper, and add a little salt. When they are half done, put with them four shced tomatoes, a spoonful or two of good gravy, and a little lemon-juice or chilli vinegar. Servo very hot. Time, about twenty minutes. Vegetables, Months for Various.— Jannanj.—Asparagus (forced), Jerusalem artichokes, beetroot, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbages, can-ots, cardoons, celery, chervil, cresses, endive, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, Scotch kale, spinach, turnips; herbs. Febmary.—Jerusalem artichokes, asparagus (forced), beetroot, broccoli (purple and white), brussels sprouts, beans (French or kidney, forced), cabbages, carrots, celery, cardoons, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, kidney beans, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, seakale, turnips; various herbs. March. — Artichokes (French), asparagus (forced), beetroot, broccoli (purple and white), brussels sprouts, beans (French or kidney, forced), cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, kidney beans, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, radishes (early), savoys, seakale, spinach, turnips, turnip-tops; various herbs. April. — Artichokes (French), asparagus, beetroot, beans (French or kidney, forced), broccoli, celery, chervil, cucumbers (forced), lettuces (cabbage), parsnips, radishes, young onions, small salad, seakale, spinach, sprouts, turnip-tops ; various herbs. May.—Artichokes (French), asparagus, beang (forced), beetroot, cabbages, carrots (young), cauliflowers, chervil, cresses, cucumbers, let- tuces, peas, potatoes (new), radishes, salads, seakale, spinach, turnip-tops ; various herbs. June.—^Artichokes, asparagus, beans (French, kidney, and Windsor), beetroot, cabbages, car- rots (young), chervil, cucumbers, cauliflowers, endive, lettuces, onions, parsnips, peas, potatoes, radishes, small salad, seakale, sorrel, spinach, turnips (young) ; various herbs. July.—Artichokes, beetroot, white beet, beans (French, kidney, scarlet runners, or Windsor), cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, cucumbers, cresses, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions, peas, potatoes, radishes, red cabbages, small salads, salsify, seakale, sorrel, spinach, sprouts, turnips, vegetable marrows; various herbs. August.—Artichokes, beetroot, beans, Wind- sor beans, cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, cucumbers, cresses, shallots, endive, lettuces, mushrooms, onions (for keeping), peas, pota- toes, radishes, red cabbages, seakale, small salads, salsify, sprouts, turnips, vegetable mar- rows ; various herbs. September.—Artichokes, J erusalem artichokes, beans, beetroot, cabbage sprouts, cauliflowers, carrots, celery, endive, shallots, lettuces, leeks, mushrooms, onions (for keeping), peas, pota- toes, salads, seakale, sprouts, tomatoes, turnips, vegetable marrows; various herbs. October.—Artichokes, Jerusalem artichokes, beets, broccoli, cabbages, cauliflowers, carrctt celery, cucumbers (late), endive, Bliallots, letl tuces, leeks, mushrooms, onions (for keeping), potiitoes, parsnips, sjirouts, tomatoes, turnips^ vegetable marrows; various herbs. A'owwifer.—Jerusalem artichokes, beetroot, broccoh, cabbages, carrots, celery, cardoons, endive, leeks, onions, parsnips, potatoes, sabtd, spinach (winter), sprouts, Scotch kale; vaiiouB herbs. December.—3cvnsolcm artichokes, beetroot, broccoli, _ cabbages, carrots, cardoons, celery, leeks, onions, potatoes, parsnips, spinach (win- ter), Scotch kale, turnips. Vegetables Preserved.—Tinned vege- tables and fruits preserved by the heat process are well worthy of attention. Common kinds of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, pars- nips, &c., are put up in large quantities by the manufacturing houses, but chiefly for shipping purposes and exportation. Re-warmed they are hardly distinguishable from ordinary fresh cooked vegetables; and considering the high price of these at the greengrocers', and the fearful waste of them in most households, those preserved in tins might often be used with advantage, to speak nothing of the convenience of having a few tins in stock. But it is to the French preservers—the disciples of M. Appert of Paris, who more than fifty years ago intro- duced the method of preserving vegetables by heat—^that we look for the best productions in the higher classes. '' Beans, celery, spinach^ artichokes, asparagus, and especially tomatoes, are so well preserved by the best French manu- facturers that they lose little or nothing of their flavour, and may be served by good cooks to the most critical companj*; while for soups, entrees, stews, and also for garnishing, the tins of macedoines (mixed vegetables) are found most useful. But of all the vegetable preserves, the green peas hold the highest place. The best are preserved without any use of ' copper, their colour being retained, or rather restored, simply, we beUere, bj' a little spinach- juice. The art of preserving peas has now reached so high a point of excellence, that it ia almost impossible to distinguish them from the fresh gathered and fresh cooked vegetables— indeed, just as new peas come in, and during the pod season, those from the tins are con- sumed in enormous quantities at first-class hotels and resturauts in London and all con- tinental cities, and at the tables of the wealthy classes, without anybody but those who provide them being the wiser. The fraud, if such it may be called, is a very hannless one, and confers a benefit on the pea-eaters, who are ensured against a dish of hard flavourless pellets. American preservers now send us large quantities of preserved tomatoes — a vegetable (perhaps we should almost say 'fruit') daily found in some form or_ other on every dinner-table across the Atlantic, but strangely neglected among ourselves. They are perhaps somewhat inferior in flavour to thope produced in the South of France, but their cheapness would recommend them. From America also we get tins of ' gi-een com,' and Indian maize, cooked in its milky sttite before