sou PllAWN riUNCE'8 PltOVENfAL PoTAUE PUUSSIAN PUMI'KIN Uu ken's UUENELLES, POK TuiiTLE Soup Quenelles, foh White and Cleaii Sour Rabbit, Supehiok Rahiiit, Ude's Kabbit, White . Eabiuts, Wild, Stock Bkotii riioM Ravioli Ray Regent's i'^ESTORATIVE BllOTHS Rhubarb Rhubarb, Sweet Rice and Egg, Danish Rice and Green Pea, French Rii B AND Onion Rice and Pumpkin Pice and Veal BuorH HiCE AND Veal Soup Rice-klour Rice-FLOUR, fob Thickening Rice, (A Danish Re- cipe) Rice, Italian- Rice, Cream of Rice, made from Fresh Meat RiCB FOR Childiikn Rice, Si i-kiuoh Rick, White Rice, Royal Rice Stew Roots, Essence of Russian Cabbage Russian Sago Salmon Sant<c, Potaoe de Scotch Broth Scotch Kale Semolina Sheep's Head Shrimp and Tomato Skate Sorrel Spanish Spanish Chestnut Spinach Spring Stock Superlative Tapioca Tongue Tomato Thchi, or Russian Turkey Turnip Turtle Unground Corn Veal Vegetable Vegetable Marrow Venison Vermicelli White Soups and Broths, Dr. Kitchiner on.—The cook must pay particular attention to her stewpans, soup-kettles, &c., which should be examined every time they are used. The prudent housewife will carefully examine the coi I'lition of them herself at least once a month. Their covers also must he kept perfectly clean and veil tinned, and the stewpans not only on the inside but about a couple of inches on the outside; many mischiefs arise from their getting out of repair, and if not kept nicely tinned all your good work will be in vain, the broths and soups wiU. look green and dirty, taste bitter and poisonous, and will be spoiled both' for the eye and palate, and your credit will be lost. The health and even life of the family depends upon this, and the cook may be sure her employers had rather pay the tinman's bill than the doctor's; therefore attention to this cannot fail to engage the regard of the mistress. If a servant has the misfortime to scorch or blister the tinning of her jmn—which will sometimes happen to the most careful cook —I advise her by all means immediately to acquaint her employers, who wiU thank her cor- dially for mentioning an accident, and censure her deservedly if she conceal it. Take care to be properly provided with sieves and tamis cloth, spoons and ladles; make it a rule without an exception never to use them till they are well cleaned and thoroughly dried, nor any stewpans, &c., without first washing them out with boiling watnr, and nibblMf f liom well with a dry cloth and a little bran, to d>-.u, them fr(jm grcusc;, sand, &c., or any bad smcii tlioy may have got since they were last used: never neglect this. Though w(; do not supposf.- (jur cook to be such a naughty iilut as to wilfully negle(-t hei broth-pots, &c., yet we may recommend lier to wash them immediately, and take caio they are thoroughly dried at the firo before they are put by, and to keep them in a dry place, for damp will rust and destroy them very soon- attend to tliis the first moment you can sijare after the dinner is sent up. Never put by any soup, gravy, &c., in metal utensils; in which never keej) anj'thing longer than is absolutely necessary for the purposes of cookery—the acid, vegetables, fat. Sec, em- ployed in making soups, ice, are capable of dissolving such utensils, therefore stone or earthen vessels should be used for this purpose. Stewpans, soup-pots, and preserving-pans, with thick and round bottoms (such as sauce- pans are made with) will wear twice as long, and are cleaned with half the trouble, as those whose sides are soldered to the bottom, of which sand and grease get into the joined part, and cooks say that it is next to an impossibility to dislodge it, even if their nails are as long as Nebuchadnezzar's. Take care that the lids fit as close as pos- sible, that the broth, soup, and sauces, &c., may not waste by evaporation. They are good for nothing imless they fit tight enough to keep the steam in and the smoke out. Stewpans and saucepans should be always bright on the upper rim, where the fire does not bum them; but to scour them all over is not only giving the cook needless trouble, but wearing out the vessels. Cultivate habits of regularity, cleanliness, «S:c., in all your business, which you wUl then get through easily and comfortably; I do not mean the restless spirit of Jlolidusta, " the tidy one," who is anon, anon, sir, frisking about in a whirlpool of bustle and confusion, and is always dirty—under pretence of being always cleaning. Lean juicy beef, mutton, or veal, form the basis of broth; procure those pieces which af- ford the richest succulence, and as fresh killed as possible. Stale meat will make broth grouty and bad tasted, and fat meat is wasted. This only ap- plies to those broths which arc required to be I)erfectly clear. Fat !ind clarified drip])ings may be so combined with vegetable mucilage as to afford, at the small cost of one penny per quart, a nourishing and palatable soup, fidly adequate to satisfy appetite and support strength —this will open a new source to those benevo- lent housekeepers who arc disposed to relieve the poor ; will show the industrious classes how much they have it in their power to assist themselves, and rescue them from being objects of charity, dependent on the precarious bounty of others, by teaching thorn how they maj- ob- tain a cheap, abimdant, siilubrious, and agree- able aliment for themselves and families. This soup has the advantage of being veiy easily and very soon made, with no more fuel