PEA ( 526 ) FEA them into halves, take out the cores, and throw them as they are done into cold water 10 keep them from becoming discoloured. Put them into a saucepan with as much syrup as will cover them, and let them stew gently until they are tender, but unbroken. The quantity of sugar put into the syrup will depend upon the quality of the peare, as some are naturally much sweeter than others. When sufficiently cooked, drain the pears from the syrup, brush them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, sprinkle powdered and sifted sugar thickly over them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Sup- posing there is a pint and a half of syi'up, dissolve in it an ounce of gelatine which has been soaked in as much cold water as will cover it for one hour. Let it boil quickly for five or six minutes, colour with two or three drops of cochineal, and strain it through a jelly-bag over the pears. Put the dish into a cool place, and when the jelly is quite stiff it is ready for serving. Time, about one hour to stew the pears. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pears, Jargonelle Jargonelle Pears). Pears, Jargonelle, Preserved. — Gratherthe pears before they are soft, weigh them, and pare them as thinly as possible. As the fruit is likely to keep longer if the seeds are removed, scoop these out from the end with a fruit-knife, or with a bodkin. Place the pears in a preserv- ing pan, cover them with a thin syrup made with half a pound of sugar to each pint of water, and let them simmer gently imtil they are sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a needle, but they must not be allowed to break. Turn them into a bowl, pour the syrup over them, and leave them to soak for two days. Drain off the syrup, and add to it a further quantity of sugar, so that there will be the same weight of sugar that there was of fruit in the first instance, together with half an ounce of whole ginger and the juice and thinly-pared rind of a lemon to each quart of syrup. Boil for ten minutes, and skim carefully. Put in the pears, and let them simmer gently until they look clear. When they are done enough they may either be drained from the syrup, and dried in the sun or in a gentle oven, or they may be kept in the syrup, and dried or not as they are wanted. Probable cost of pears, Id. each. Pears, Meringue of.—Pare, core, and halve a dozen pears, and stew them in sjTup until they are sufficiently tender to be pierced easily with a needle; put them into a deep tart- dish which they will ahnost fill, and boil the syrup quickly until it is so much reduced that, when poured over the pears, it will only half cover them. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a solid froth. Stir into them four table-spoon- fuls of powdered and sifted sugar, and spread the mixture evenly and smoothly over the fruit; put it at once into a moderate oven, and bake until the crust is lightly coloured and crisp even in the middle. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 1b. Sufficient for four or six persons. Pear'^, Pickled. — Put three quarts of good vinegar into a tiji saucepan with a dessert-spoonful of salt, twelve onioDS, and two dozen large baking pears which have been well rubbed with a soft cloth, but not pared. Sim- mer gently until the pears are tender without being broken, then take them out, and when they are cold pare and core them, and divide each one into six or eight pieces. When the onions also are soft take them out, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Put into the vinegar a dessert- spoonful of peppercorns, a small tea-spoon- ful of cloves, a small tea-spoonful of allspice, six blades of mace, two ounces of whole ginger, three dessert-spoonfuls of turmeric, two cloves of garlic; if Hked, a dessert-spoonful of mus- tard seed and a dessert-spoonful of coriander seed may also be added. Let these ingredients boil for ten minutes, then stir in the mashed onion, and boil ten minutes longer. Put the pears into jars, and pour the seasoned vinegar over them. Divide the spices equally amongst the jars, and place them at the top of the pears. Tie the jars down with bladder, and store in a cool dry place. Time, about one hour and a half to stew the pears. Probable cost, 28.6d. Sufficient for a gallon of pickle. Pears, Preserved. — Gather the pears before they are quite ripe, pare, halve, core, and weigh them, and put them into a deep jar, allowing three pounds of sugar to every four pounds of pears, and just enough water to moisten the sugar and keep the fruit from burn- ing. The strained juice and thinly-pared rind of a lemon and an inch of whole ginger may be put with every two pounds of pears. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the fruit steam gently for six or seven hours. Turn it into jars, fasten these down securely, and store in a cool dry place. Two or three drops of cochineal may be added to the pears after they are cooked to improve the appearance It must not be expected that pears preserved as above will keep good more than three or four months. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pears, Preserved, Red.—If when pre- serving pears it is wished to impart a deep pink tinge to the fruit and syrup, use a per- fectly bright block-tin saucepan. If this is not convenient, add three or four drops of cochineal to the syrup, or a small proportion of red cur- rant or red gooseberry-juice. Pears, Stewed.—Pare, core, and halve eight or ten good-sized pears, leaving on the stalks or not, according to taste ; put them into a tinned saucepan, with six ounces of loaf sugar, six cloves, six whole allspice, three-quarters of a pint of water, and a glassful of port, and let them boil as gently as possible until they are quite soft without being broken. Lift them out, put them on a glass dish, and when the syrup is cold strain it over them. A little Devonshire cream, or, failing this, a little cus- tard, is a great improvement to this dish. Time to stew the pears, from two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pears Stewed in Butter.—Take half a dozen large baking pears, pare and core with- out breaking them, and fill the cavity in each with a clove crushed to powder, a little moist