jaOY ( 775 ) RUF Brush over -with white of egg, and sprinkle diopped almonds thickly over the cakes. Shake a little sugar on the top of this. Put the cakes on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When done, the coating of almonds should be of a Ught- fawn colour. Remove the cakes carefully from the baking-sheet, and pile them in a pyramid upon a napkin. If liked, they can be orna- mented \vith bright-coloured jelly of any kind. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Royal Punch (to be served hot).—Put a quarter of a pound of doubly-refined sugar in large lumps into a bowl, and with it two hmes and a thin slice of fresh lemon. With a bruiser rub the sugar and the fruit well together, then mix thoroughly with two glassfuls of calf's foot jelly in a hot state. Take brandy, rum, arrack, and cura9oa in equal quantities, and stir them into the preparation. When thoroughly mixed, add a pint of boiling gi-een tea, and serve hot. The quantity of spirit must be regulated by taste; half a pint of each will generally be found sufficient. Royal Sauce for Fish.—Beat two raw yolks of eggs with two ounces of fresh butter. Add gradually a tea-spoonful of elder vinegar, a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a tea-spoon- ful of soy, a pinch of cayenne, and a very small quantity of nutmeg. Pour the mixture into an earthen jar; set this in a small saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling, stirring briskly all the time until the sauce begins to thicken and presents a rich smooth appear- ance ; be careful that it does not curdle, which it will quickly do if not taken from the fire as soon as it is smooth and thick. Time, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Royal Sauce for Turkeys and Fowls.—Take the breast of a cold roast fowl, free it from skin, and pound it to paste in a mortar with a slice of bread which has been soaked in milk and squeezed dry. Add as much white stock as will make the paste smooth and of the consistency of custard, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and simmer the sauce over a gentle fire. Let it cool, stir into it the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up with half a cupful of cream, and stir the sauce again over the fire, but do not allow it to boil after the eggs are added. If liked, this sauce may be flavoured with five or six blanched and pounded almonds. Time altogether, about one hour. Probable cost, lOd., exclusive of the cold chicken. Sufficient for six or seven per- sons. Royans.—These are fish of the sardine family. They are not unlike sardines, but are smaller, more delicate in taste, and less oily. They should be very fresh. " Roy ans. Broiled (a Bordeaux recipe).— Take the fish, wipe them with a cloth, squeeze firmly the tip of the tail. Sprinkle salt over thorn, and place them on a gridiron to broil over a brisk fire. As soon as the undermost Ride begins to whiten, turn the royans, and two minutes after hotkI them to table. Fresh butter should be served separately. Ruby under Snow.—Wash a quarter of a pint of tapioca, and let it soak for three or four hours in three-quarters of a pint of water, and with it the thin rind and strained juice of half a lemon. Take out the rind, and simmer the tapioca till it is clear, then mix with it six table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly. Let it simmer three or four minutes longer, and pour it into a large dish. When it is quite cold and stitt", pile upon it a little whipped cream, or, if preferred, the whites of two eggs beaten till firm, and sweetened and flavoured with lemon- rind. This is a pretty and wholesome dish for a juvenile party. It should be made the day before it is wanted. If the whites of eggs are used they should be laid on at the last moment. RufTs and Reeves.—These little birds, of which the rufi: is the male and the reeve is the female, take their name from the long feathers which stand round the neck of the male bird, in appearance slightly resembling the rufiis worn by ladies. Ruffs are birds of passage, and are caught in traps, and when fattened on meal and milk are esteemed a great delicacy. They should not be drawn, and should be trussed like woodcook. To prepare them, run a small skewer through the thighs and pinions, lay over the bodies of the birds a slice of fat bacon and a vine-leaf, run them on a lark-spit, and put them down before a clear fire. Baste well with butter, and put a slice of toast in the tin under the birds to receive the drippings from the trail. When done enough, dish them on the same toast with a little brown gravy under them, and more in a tureen. Garnish the dish with watercresses, and send bread sauce to table. Time to roast the birds, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost uncertain, ruffs being seldom offered for sale. Ruflr, Fattening of the.—" The ruff is taken for the table in spring, but young birds taken in autumn are much to be preferred. They are often fattened after being taken, and are fed on bread and milk, with bruised hemp- seed. After being fattened thej^ are sent to market. They feed readily when quite newly caught, and tight desperately for their food, unless supplied in separate dishes, which is therefore the regular practice of the feeders, who find it also advantageous to keep them in darkened apartments. The ruff is gradually becoming scarcer in England, owing to the destruction of its favourite haunts, the fens, by drainage." Ruff or Pope.—This fish spawns in April, and is in season aU the year. Its excellence as a fish for the table excited the enthusiasm of Dr. Kitchiner. The ruff is thus alluded to in Izaak Walton's famous " Complete Angler":—"There is also another fish called a pope, and by some a ruff, a fish that is not known to be in some rivers. He is much like the perch for his shape, and taken to be better than the perch, but will not grow to be bigger than a gudgeon; he is an excellent fish ; no fish that swims is of a pleasanter taste, and he is also excellent to enter a young angler, for he is a gToedy Inter, and they will usually lie abundance of them togi.'ther, in one reserved place where the water is deep and runs quietly; and an easy angler.