SHE SHE ( 861 ) Sheep's Tongues, Broiled. — Soak three or four sheep's tongues in brine for a couple of hours, and boil them till the skin ■w-ill peel off. Skin them, split them in halves lengthwise, put them into a stewpan, and pom- over them as much stock as will barely cover them. Simmer with them an onion, a carrot, three or four heads of celery, a bunch of parsley, and a few mushrooms. Add pepper and salt if required. When they are quite tender (they will be so in about half an hour), take them "up and drain them, boil the gravy quickly for a few minutes, brush the tongues with it, and sprinkle seasoned bread-crumbs thickly over them. Broil over a clear fire, and when one side is done turn them upon the other. Serve on a hot dish : mix the strained juice of half a lemon with the sauce, and pour it over the tongues. Time to broil the tongues, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sheep's Tongues, Broiled (another way).—Soak four tongues in salt and water for two hours, and boil them gently in stock till the skin wUl peel off easily. Skin them, let them get cold, and split them in halves length- wise. Make a savoury mixture thus:—Chop six mushrooms, and mix with them three ounces of lean ham cut into dice, a salt-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little salt and cayenne; a little piece of garlic may be added rE liked. Sprinkle this mixture on the inside of the tongues, put them in their original position, cover with oiled papers, and broil over a gentle ftre. If the papers are at aU unsightly in appearance, remove them. If not, serve the tongues in the papers. Time to broil, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, tongues, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sheep's Tongues, Cured.—Put fresh tongues into a pickle such as is used for beef and ox-tongues, and let them remain for fo\ir days. Take them up, wash them, put them into boiling water, and simmer gently irutil done enough. Skin them, let them get cold, split them in halves without dividing them, and serve cold for breakfast. Mustard or tartar sauce may be served with them. If there is no beef pickle at hand, wash the tongues, and rub into each one a talale-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a tea- spoonful of vinegar. Turn and rub them with the pickle every day for four days, then pro- ceed as before. Time to boil the tongues, two hours. Probable cost, 4d. each. Sufficient, one tongue for one person. Sheep's Tongues, Larded and B,oasted.—Soak and boil four tongues as for broiling. Skin them, and lard the upper portion evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Wrap each tongue separately in a sheet of oiled paper, tie them to a spit, and roast them before a clear fire. When done enough, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with cut lemon, and send good brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time roast the tongues, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, three or foiu: tongues for a diah. Sheep's Tongues, Stewed.—Soak three- sheep's tongues in salt and water for two hours^ boil them in stock tiU the skin wiU peel off easily, and skin them. Let them get cold,, then cut them into slices the third of an inch thick. Take haK a pint of thick brown sauce nicely seasoned and flavoured. Dip the slices into this, and arrange them in a circle on a dish. Sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs- thickly over them, pour a Uttle oiled butter upon them, and brown them in the oven or before the fire. Pour the sauce into the centre- of the circle, and garnish the dish with toasted, sippets. If brown gravy is not at hand, it may be made as follows:—Put half a pint of stock made from bones into a saucepan with a mode- rate-sized onion or two shallots, a scraped; carrot, a bunch of parsley, a clove, and three or four outer sticks of celery. Simmer all. gently together for an hour. Strain the gravy, add pepper and salt if required, thicken it with a little brown thickening, stir a glass of port into it, and it will be ready for use. Time to- boil the tongues, two hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for four or fiv& persons. Sheep's Tongues with Cabbage Lettuces.—The tongues are first of all to be braized. Take a dozen and a half of good cabbage-lettuces, wash them very clean, and blanch them. When they are cold, and you have squeezed all the water out of them, open them in two, take off the stalks, powder a little salt and pepper over them; then shut them, and give them a good form; place them in a stewpan, surrounded with layers of bacon; moisten them with a little braize, or anything to give them a good taste ; otherwise take the pot-top, with a little broth and salt. When the lettuces are quite done, drain them, and. squeeze them in a cloth to extract the grease. Dish them in rosettes, first a tongue, then a lettuce, and so on successively. Put a large tongue in the centre to improve the look of the rosette. Another time cut the tongues in two, and dish them miroton way—that is, one half of a tongue, and lettuce, alternately. In this case, put a jardiniere in the centre, and cover both the tongues and the lettuce with Spanish sauce. Sheep's Tongues, with Turnips. —Take eight tongues of an equal size; let them disgorge in a little water and flour, and next blanch them. When thoroughly blanched, put them in a stewpan to braize. In case you should have a braize of beef, or of mutton, or any others, they will aU equally answer the purpose for sheep's tongues; when they are done, peel them, and cut them in two. Dish them miroton way, and cover with the sauce of the haricot, the turnips of course being put in the middle. It is customary in French cookery to call anything made yrith turnips haricot. Sheep's Trotters, or Sheep's Feet. —Sheep's trotters may generally be obtained at the tripe shops cleaned and partially boiled. When it is necessary to clean them at home, remove the wool from the hoofs, singe away