PUG ( 662 ) PUD Boys ton years old at school receive about ono-half tho tlosli-formors of active men, and about tlinHi-fourths tho quantity of carbon. The boys of tv^« lioyal Naval School at Clroon- ■wich liavu two ounces and a half of liosh- formoia and soven ounces and a half of carbon in thoir food daily. Tho boys of Clirist's Hospital, London, have daily two ounces and a half of flosh-fornioi-s and seven ounces of carbon. Puchero, Spanish.—This is a Spanish soup. Like tho "pot-au-fou" in France, it ap- pears daily at tho tables of families in Spain. T;ike two pounds of brisket of beef, place them in an cartlion stock-pot with a pig's car, tho gib- lets of a chicken, half a pound of blanched ham or salted pork, and three handfuls of softened " garbani^os." Moisten the meats with five or six quarts of water, put the stock-pot on the fire, skim, and when the liquid begins to boil, set it on one side. After two hours, add to the soup two leeks tied together, a bunch of chervil, a pinch of wild mint, a slice of good pumpkin from which the peel and seed have been re- moved, a large carrot, a head of cabbage-lettuce, and half a blanched savoy cabbage. After another hour add a " choriso," and continue to boil moderately. Before serving, remove the stock-pot from the fire, pass the soup gently through a sieve into a stewpan, and from that pour it into a tureen. Add the leeks and let- tuces cut up, and some slices of fried toast. Place the beef on a dish, surrounded with the " choriso," the vegetables, and the ham. The meats appear at table with the soup. To be thorougidy appreciated, puchero must be eaten in Spain. Pudding-Moulds (se^ Illustration ac- companying the article ov Aunt Elizabeth's Pudding). Pudding-Pies.—Put a pint of milk into a saucepan with a little thin lemon-rind, mix with it two ounces of ground rice, and keep it stirred over the fire until it is thick and free from lumps. Pour it into a bowl, stir into it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of white sugar, a little grated nutmeg, two eggs, and a heaped table-spoonful of currants. Stir the rice occasionally until it is cool. Line some large patty-pans with good pastry rolled very thin, three-parts fill them with the mix- ture, and bake in a gentle oven. These pud- dings may be made larger by increasing the quantities in the proper proportion, and richer by putting in a little more butter and an additional egg or two. If liked, the currants can be strewed over the pudding-pies just before they are put into the oven instead of being stirred into it. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 9d. SuSfficient for five or six persons. Pudding Sauce, Caremes (the Chandot).—Beat the yolks of two eggs, to which add half a pint of madeira and four ounces of pounded sugar. Set this upon v.mbers or a slow fire, and mill it with a chocolate mill. It will thicken and become smooth, and is a superior pudding sauce. Serve in a sauce- tureen, and the moulded pudding without sauce. The chandot answers well for all kinds of plum or other ricli puddings. Pudding Sauces, Sweet.—When any unusual sauce is appropriate to a pudding, the recipe is either given in this work with it, or a reference is made to it. The most usual saucMiH for puddings an,-—sweetsauce, wine siiuce.arrow- root sauces, and fruit sauces. They are made as follows :—fiweet Sauce.—Sweeten a little good ; melted butter, and flavour it with grated l<;mon- ! rind, nutmeg, or powdered cinnamon. Strew a little of the grate over the top, and serve in a tureen. A little wine or brandy miiy be added at pleasure. This sauce is suitable for almost all ordinary boiled puddings. Wine Sauce.—Boil the thin rind of half a lemon or hall' an orange in a wine-glassful of water till the flavour is extracted. Take out the lind, and thicken the sauce by stirring into it a salt-spoonful of flour which has been mixed smoothly with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Boil for a minute, then add half a tumblerful of any good wine. Let the sauce get quite hot without boiling, sweeten, and serve. If port is used, the juice of the lemon may be added. A Superior Wine Sauce.—Take half a tumblerful of light wine (madeira or sherry), and mix thoroughly with it the well- beaten yolks of two eggs. Place the jar in boUiug water, add a Little sugar, and whisk over the fire till it is nicely frothed. Serve at once. Arrowroot Sauce, —Mix a table-spoonfiil of arrowroot smoothly, with a little cold water. Add the third of a pint of water, a glassful of wine, the juice of a lemon, and sugar and flavouring. Stir the sauce OA'er the fire tiU it boils. This sauce may be varied by omitting the wine, and using mUk or milk-and-water with the arrowroot. The juice of almost any fruit, too, may be boiled with the arro^Toot. Fruit Sauces.—Boil fruit (almost any kind may be used) with a little water until it is quite soft. Rub it with the back of a wooden simoon through a fine sieve. Sweeten to taste, make it ht>t, and pour the sauce over the boiled or steamed puddings. Puddings.—Without pretending to make a skilful cook by book, we believe that any in- teUigent beginner may compound a good pud- ding by attending to the following simple rules and plain directions:—Attention is all that is required, and a Httle manual dexterity in turn- ing the pudding out of the mould or cloth. Let the several ingredients be each fresh and good of its kind, as one bad article, particularly eggs, will taint the whole composition. Have the moulds and pudding-cloths carefully washed when used, the cloths ^vith wood ashes, and dried in the open air. Lay them aside sweet and thoroughly dry. Puddings ought to be put into plenty of boiling water, which must be kept upon a quick boil; or baked, in general in a shai-p but not scorching oven. A pudding in which there is much bread must be tied loosely, to allow room for swelling. A battrr purfding ought to be tied up firmly. Moulds should be quite full, well buttered." and covered -wnlh a fold or two of paper floured and bTitlored. Eggs for puddings must be used in greater