TEA C 9ti4 ) TEN and stowing thcso for ciglit or ten niinutoa in half a pint of good brown gravy rather liiglily seasoned and fiavoiuuid willi port or lemon- juice. When siillieiently dressed tlie birds should bo neatly dished upon toast, and sliould have the gravy strained over thcni. A little mushroom saueo should be sent to table in a tureen. Three or four birds will be required for tliis entree. Time, half an hour. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. TEAL. Teal, Gravy for.—Clean the giblets and put them into a stowpan with a pound of lean beef cut small, or instead of it a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, a moderate-sized onion chopped small, half a tea-spoonful of sugar browning, two or three pej)percorns, three cloves, a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, three inches of thin lemon-rind, and a pint and a half of lukewarm water. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently until the gravy is good, then strain and cool it, and skim the fat from the top. Put it back into the saucepan with a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a table-spoonful of port, and a little salt. Boil up once more, and serve. Or put half a pint of good gravy into a saucepan with a small onion finely minced and a roll of orange or lemon-peel. Let the sauce boil a few minutes, then strain it, season with salt and cayenne, and add the juice of a lerton or Seville orange. Simmer a few minutes longer; put with it a glassful of port or claret, and send it to table very hot. A sliced lemon without the rind is usually sent to table with roast teaL Teal Pudding.—Take three teal and a pound of tender rump steak. Divide the birds into neat joints, and season them well with salt and cayenne. Cut up the steak into pieces an inch square, season them, and dredge them lightly with flour. Line a .shallow, thick-rimmed pudding-basin with good suet pastry rolled out to the thickness of half an inch, and leave an inch of crust to overlap the edge. Tlaco in the basin a layer of steak and a layer of jointed teal, and repeat until the dish is full. Four in a quarter of a pint of beef gravy. Ikloi.sten tho edges of tlie pastry, lay the cover on tlie top, press tlio crustB closely together, and turn over the overlapping pastry tliat tlie giavy may not escape. 'I'io tlie pudding in a floured eJotli, plunge it into boiling water, and kcej) it boiling quickly until done enough, 'lake it up, let it stand a few minutes, and either turn it out upon a hot dish, or serve in the basin in which it was boiled, with a napkin ]jinned round it. Time to boil, two houi-s. Sulficient for six or seven persons. Teal, Roasted. — Carefully pluck and draw the birds, and truss them like wild duck. Flour them well, and put them down before a brisk fire. Do not baste them for the first two or three minutes, as this will lielp to keep the gravy in; afterwards baste them liberally. Wlien the birds are nicely browned, and the steam draws to tlie fire, they may be served. Put them on a hot dish, and serve with a little brown gravy round them: send a little more gravy to table in a tureen. Sprinkle a pinch of cayenne on the breast, and squeeze a little lemon-juice upon it at the moment of serving. Send a cut lemon to table with the birds. A very good hash may be made of the remains of teal. Time to roast, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, teal being seldom offered for sale. Sufiicient, two for a dish. Teal, Stewed.—Pluck, singe, and empty the birds, and truss them securely. Preserve the hearts, livers, and gizzards. Dredge the teal with flour, put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, let tliem brown equally all over, and take care of the gravy which comes from them. Let them get cold, and if con- venient keep them until the next day. Carve them in such a way that the wings and the legs shall be taken off, each with a portion of breast adhering to it. Break the bodies of the birds into small pieces, and stew them gently with the livers, hearts, and gizzards, in as much water or stock as will cover them, till the gravy is quite strong. Strain it, season with salt and cayenne, thicken with a little brown thicken- ing, and add a glassful of claret, and, if liked, a little lemon or Seville orange-juice. As soon as it begins to boil, put into it the fleshy portion of the birds, and let them simmer until they are thoi'oughly heated, but the gravy must not boil after they are added. Cut shces of stale crumb of bread suflicientlj- large for a leg and a wing to lis on. Fry these till they are lightly browned, drain them, arrange them on a hot dish, place en each one a leg and a %ying, and pour the saucs over them. Garnish with green parsley and sliced lemon. Time, one hour and a half to make the gravy. Sufiicient, one teal for two persons. Teetotaller's Ciiristmas Pudding {sec Christmas I'udaing). Ten to One Pie {see Potato Pie " Ten to One"). Tench.—The tench is more of a pond than a river iish, and is frequently met with in standing waters. It is best for the table when taken from the river. Though a much smaller fish than the carp (for it seldom weighs more