1165 APPENDIX. about Is. 6d., luicl large ones of the same kind for 6s. or 7s. Better and more dui-able ones made either to hang from the top of the larder or to fit in the window, imd of various sizes, will cost from 22s. to 33s. Meat Screens.—Some meat screens are made of wood, lined with tin, and fitted with shelves upon which the plates and dishes can be warmed. The modern meat screen is a more compact affair. It is made of tin, and is constructed to condense the heat as much as possible. The joint is hung inside, and there is a place for the jack just above the screen, and connected with it. The advantage which this sci'een possesses over the old-fashioned one is that by its means a joint may be cooked at a compai-atively small fire, on account of the heat being reflected from the tin upon the meat. Some persons object to it because they consider that the meat being so closely siuTOunded acquii'es a baked taste. Certainly the close sci-een should not be placed near the gi-ate, or the joint will become hard and dry upon the surface. Probable cost, wood screen, from SOs.; close screen, 16s. 6d. Moulds for Cakes and Puddings.—Cakes are generally baked in tin moulds, and a large choice of these is offered to the purchaser. Puddings may either be boiled in moulds or in plain pudding basins with a rim. Many puddings, especially those into the composition of which bread enters, are both lighter and drier when boiled in a stout cloth, rather than in a mould. Probable cost of pudding and cake moulds, from 4s. 6d.; pudding basins, from 6d. Moulds for Jelly.—Moulds for jelly may be purchased so pretty and so artistic that they need to be seen to be appreciated. There are plain moulds of all shapes and sizes, and if these have a bunch of fruit or any similar design on the top, a pretty effect may be produced by coloiuing suitably the jelly which will fill that portion of the mould. Particular care must be taken to colour only as much jelly as is required, and the coloured part must be allowed to go quite stiff" before the rest of the jelly, which should of course be perfectly cold, is placed upon it. Open moulds, or rather border moulds, ai-e also made, which leave the jelly with an opening in the centre to be tilled with whipped cream. By means of the more elaborate moulds, jellies beautiful in appearance may be turned out. Amongst these may be mentioned the Belgrave mould, the Alexandra mould, and the star mould. These moulds aie provided with movable interiors so constructed that a transparent jelly can be poured into the outer portion of the mould, and when this is quite stiff" the lining can be removed, and the cavity filled with an opaque jelly, which, being dis- cernible through the ti-ansparent exterior, has a very good appearance. Simple earthenware moulds can be purchased from 2s. 6d.; copper moulds cost from 9s. 6d.; border moulds, 12s. 6d.; and moulds with movable linings, about 22s. 6d. To me tJie Belgrave Mould.—Pour some clear bright jelly round but not into the cylinders. When this is quite set, pour a little warm water into the cylinders for a moment, then withdraw the lining, and fill the cavities with bright-coloured jellies or cream of diff"erent colours, or with fruit, which can be kept in its place by pouring a small portion of liquid jelly upon it after it is arranged. The space which was occupied by the central cylinder may be left empty, and filled just before the jelly is served with white or coloured whipped cream. To use t/ie Aleocandra Mould.—Put the mould in ice. Fill the first cross with white jelly, and when this is stiff" fill the second cross with pink jelly, and let this also stiff"en. Put the lining in the mould, and fill the space outside it as far as the plain band of the mould with pink jelly. When this is stiff", pour a little warm water into the lining to loosen it. Withdraw it instantly, and fill the cavity with white jelly or blancmange. When this is set, fill the plain band of the mould with bright yellow jelly. When this j<elly is turned out it will represent the Danish cross upon a golden ground. To use tlie Stwr Mould.—Put the mould in ice, then fill the circle at the top with bright red jelly. When this is set, fill the smaller star with silver jelly. Let this set, and fill the large star with red again. Put the lining into the mould, and fill the space outside it, as far as the plain band of the mould, with clear jelly. With- di-aw the lining, and fill the empty space with blancmange. When this is peifecUy