( 864 ) SHE it, and let it got cold. Divido and skin tho tthiiUots; put tht;m into porfoctly di-y luid sound pickling jiirs, und intcrsporse tuuongHt them the spices taken from tlie vinegar. I'our the vinegar over thorn, and lot theni bo eutirelj- covered with it. Store for uso. The pickle nuiy bo used in two months. Time to boil tlie vinegiir und spices, tlu'ce minutes. Sharp Sauce, for Cutlets, Boiled Beef, Boiled Mutton, &c.—Wkin and mince four sluillots, und put them into a sauce- pan with a slice of fresh butter and four table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir these over tho fire till the vinegar is reduced and tho butter looks clear. Mix one ounce of flour smoothly into it, and keep stirring over a brisk fire until the paste is, slightly coloured without being at all burnt. Add gradually a pint of broth, and let the sauce simmer for twenty minutes. Stir in a table-spoonful of minced gherkins, a table-spoonful of blanched and chopped pars- ley, and a little pepper and salt, if required. Boil, skim, and serve v^y hot. A little brown- ing should be added if necessary. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Suflicient for six or eight persons. Sheep's Brains (a la Maitre d'Hotel).— Proceed just as in the recipe Sheep's Brains, Matelote of, with the croutons (crusts) glazed and stuck in the dish; and at dinner-time, as soon as you have dished up the brains, take three spoonfuls of bechamel, a good bit of fresh butter, a little salt and cayenne, some parsley chopped and blanched, and the juice of half a lemon; then work the sauce over the fire to render it very hot, and serve quickly. Sheep's Brains (a la Maitre d'Hotel). Another way.—Prepare and parboil the brains ; then lay them in. the bottom of a wide stew- pan, each brain resting upon a slice of bacon. Add a small bunch of parsley, a small onion, one clove, some salt, a chilli, a couple of slices of lemon, and a quarter of a pint of broth, and cover the whole with a layer of bacon. Cover the stewpan, and let its con- tents stew slowly for half an horn- without being uncovered. Let the brains now stand a couple of hours in the stewpan by the side of the fire, merely that they may acquire the flavour of the ingredients in the stewpan; but they must neither boil nor simmer, nor in any- wise approach ebullition. Have some triangular slices of bread ready fried to garnish the dish with. Drain the brains from the fat, place them upon a dish with the sippets, and pour over them the following sauce:—Into a small stewpan put two oimces of butter; when it boils sprinkle in half a table-spoonful of flour. Stir into this half a pint of broth, and put in with it a bunch of parsley and a very small bit of lemon-peel. When the sauce is reduced and of proper consistence, season it with salt and a little cayenne. Strain the sauce, and put it again into the stewpan, adding a little lemon-juice and some chopped parsley. Give it a few boils, and pour it quite hot over the brains. Sheep's Brains and Tongue.—Take the brains out of the head without breaking them, soak them in salted water for an liour, skin them, and pick away tho fibres. Tlirow thom into boiling water, put the tongue, already boiled with tho head, with tliem. Let tho brains boil quickly for a quart(,r of an hour; take t)iom out, mince them, and biut them up with three table-spoonfuls of the liquor in which tliey were boiled, three table- spoonfuls of cream, a table-spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Boil the brains with half a tea-spoonful of white thickening; or, failing this, with u small piece of butter rolled in flour. Skin the I tongue, put it in the centre of a small dish, I pom- tho brains round it, and serve verj' hot. I Time, altogether, thirty to forty minutes. Pro- bable cost, sheeps' heads, lOd. to Is. each. ' Sufficient for one or two persons. I Sheep's Brains (en ]\Iat(,lote).—Prepare the brains as for Sheep's Brains a la ilaitre d'Hotel, the almost only difference being in the sauce poured upon them, which is thus made :— Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan. When it has done boiling, stir into it half a table-spoonful of flour. Stir the butter and flour till smooth, and let it fry gently until it has acquired a rich brown colour, of reddish hue. Next add by degrees a pint of white ' wine, madeira, or sherry, and half a pint of well-flavoured and rich broth, but without any fat. Put in also a bunch of herbs so tied up that it may easily be taken out before the sauce is used. This bunch is to consist of parsley, green onions, half a bay-leaf, a very small bit of thjTne, and a clove of garlic. Let the sauce reduce; then throw in a few morels, small mushrooms, and small bleached onions. Season with salt, black pepper, and cayenne, ^^^len the sauce is on the point of being done, put into it a couple of ounces of truflles cut into slices and fried on both sides in butter. Give them a couple of boils, and the sauce is ready. Meanwhile, make some balls of the stuffing as indicated for the Ox-palates au Gratin, and fry them in butter of a nice brown, taking care that they be thoroughly done. WTien the brains are arranged in the dish with the sippets, garnish with these forcemeat balls, and with some crawfish; then pour the sauce over them, and ! serve up immediately. Sheep's Brains, Matelote of.—Take I eight unbroken sheep's brains. Put them into a large vessel with some lukewarm water; I take off the skin, and let them disgorge for I two hours. When they are become quite ' white, blanch them in boiling water, vinegar, and salt; and when they arc very fii-m put I them in cold water, after which place some I layers of bacon round a stewpan big enough to hold all the eight brains; add a small I onion with one clove, a small bundle of pars- ley weU-seasonod, and some salt, and cover with some layers of bacon and a round of pa])cr: a little broth is required, and a few slic(!S of lemon to keep them very wliite. Twenty minutes wQl suffice to boil them, but they must be boiled two hours or more before dinner to acquire a flavour; then at dinner you must have ready some croutons, oi- small crusts of bread, in quantity equal to the brains.