(810) SAl. SAL with their tails picklod. Surround the sauer kraut at its huso with the fried scallops, and servo iinmodiatoly." Salmon Peel.—Salmon peel is the name given to an inferior vui-iety of sabnon, which seldom roaches to more than a few poumlH in weight. It should ho drosHod like ordinary mil- mou. On account of its small size it is generally boiled whole, and in the shape of the letter 8. To truss it in this form, pass a packing-needle, threaded with strong twine, through the eyes, and tie it securely under the jaw, afterwards run the needle through the thick part of the tail of the hsh, and tie it tightly. Salmon Pickle, Irish [see Irish Sahnon Pickle). Salmon, Pickled.—A whole sahnon or part of one maj^ be pickled, and wiU form a handsome dish, or, if preferred, the remains of cold boiled salmon may be preserved in this way. Recipes are given for both methods. No. 1. Clean, scale, and boil a moderate-sized salmon in the usual way; drain it, and let it cool. Take equal parts of the water in which it was boiled and of good vinegar: let there be altogether as much liquor as will cover the fish. Put it into a saucepan with a dozen cloves, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and a tea-spoon- ful of whole allspice; let it boil; skim it, stir a slice of fresh butter into it until dissolved, and pour it over the fish. Put it in a cool place till wanted. It will keep for some days if required. No. 2. Put a whole fresh salmon or part of one into a large earthen jar, cover with equal parts of vinegar and water, add salt, cloves, peppercorns, and spices, as in the last recipe, and lay one or two bay-leaves on the top of the liquor. Bake the sahnon in a moderate oven. When the flesh leaves the bone easily on being lightly pressed with the finger it is done enough. Leave the salmon in the liquor in which it was baked, and set it in a cool place till wanted. If fresh vinegar is added, and the pickle is boiled every now and then, it will keep good for some time, and may be used again and again for the same purpose. No. 3. Split a salmon open down the backbone, and divide the flesh into pieces about five inches square. Sprinkle salt and pepper over the pieces, and lay them in an earthen pan. Pour as much good vinegar over them as mU cover them, set the lid on the pan, and put in a moderate oven. Bake the fish gently until done enough. Keep it under the pickle until it is wanted, and serve with a small portion of the pickle in the dish with it. Salmon, Pickled (another way).—Cut the salmon across in slices about an inch and a half or two inches thick. Then rub each piece over with the following seasoning:—Pound one ounce each of mace, Jamaica pepper, and cardamom seeds, half an ounce of allspice, and a drachm of cloves ; mix these with half a pound of pounded bay-salt and two grated nut- megs. Add also a little pounded bay-leaf and a very small quantity of dried and powdered mint. Rub this seasoning well into every bit of salmon, then cover each piece with yolk of bttatcn egg, and strew seasoning over it again. Fill a small frying-pan half full of olive oil, and fry one piece of sahnon at a time until it is of a rich yellow-brown colour. As each pieco is fried, put it upon a hair sieve. When all are friod, let them drain until they are quite cold. Then put at the bottom of a stone jar a small branch of fennel and a little sprig of tarragon; upon it a layer of pieces of salmon, on this a bay-leaf, another httle branch of fennel and another little sprig of tarragon, then pieces of salmon, then a bay-leaf; and so on until all the salmon is in. Then fill the jar with vinegar an inch above the fish, and ov(;r this put a thick layer of olive oil. Salmon pickled in this way will keep good for twelve months if required. Salmon, Pickled (Cold Meat Cookeey). —No. 1. Take the remains of dressed salmon. Remove the skin, lift the flesh from the bones, and divide it into neat pieces. Make as much pickle as will cover the fish, composed of equal portions of vinegar and of the hquor in which the fish was boiled, and boil it for ten minutes with salt, pepper, and spices proportionate in quantity to that of the pickle. Let the hquor cool, then pour it over the salmon, and set it in a cool place till wanted. In twelve hours it \\dll be fit for use. Garnish the dish ^vith fennel or bunches of red-currants, or a little lobster coral. No. 2. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stew- pan. Put into this three moderate-sized onions sHced, a turnip cut into dice, a bunch of pars- ley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Stir the ingredients over a gentle fire for four minutes, then pour upon them a pint of water and a pint of vinegar, and add two tea-spoonfuls of salt and one of pepper. Boil the pickle till the onions are tender. Put the dressed fish, freed from skin and bone and di^dded into neat pieces, into a shallow pan, strain the pickle over it, and set it in a cool place till wanted. The pickle may be used again and again if it is boiled up occasionally with a httle fresh vinegar. Salmon Pie.—Take about three pounds of fresh salmon. Remove the skin, raise the flesh from the bones, and divide it into pieces convenient for ser\ang. Season every pieci separately with salt, pepper, and pounded mace. The latter of these must be added sparingly. Shell a pint of shrimps, and pound them with an ounce of butter and a pinch of cayenne. Put the pieces of salmon in a dish, and intersperse the pounded shiimps amongst them. Make some fish gravy by boihng the skin and bones of the fish in water till the hquor will jelly when cold. Fill the dish with this, cover it with good pastrj-, and bake in a well-heated oven. This pie is too rich for deUcate stomachs. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 4s., with salmon at Is. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Salmon Pie, Cold, with Truffles.— Cut two pounds of raw salmon into middling- sized squares, lard them with fillets of truffles and anchovies, season with salt and spice; frj- them a few minutes ^vith butter in a stowpan. Then pour over half a glassful of sherry, which must be reduced; remove the stewpan back, add to the fish a pound of peeled raw truffles cut in quarters and seasoned, cover the stowpan, and let all the ingredients cool together Chop