( 1081 ) VEN ITEN Venison, Gravy for {see Gravy for Roast Venison). Venison, Hashed.—Cut .any part of cold roast venison into thin neat slices the third of an inch thick. Do not remove the fat from them. Put the bones and trimmings of the venison into a saucepan with a sliced onion, a little pepper and salt, and as much stock or water as will cover them, and let them stew gently for two hours. Strain the gravy, thicken with a small piece of bro^^^^ thickening, or, failing this, with an ounce and a half of butter roUed in flour, and clear it from grease. Pepper and flour the pieces of venison. Put them into a clean saucepan, strain over them as much of the graAy as will moisten but not quite cover them, and heat them very gently, shaking the saucepan frequently. The gravy must not boil after the venison is put to it. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. A dish of plainJy-boiled French beans and a little red-currant jelly will be welcome accompaniments. If liked, a quarter of a pound of red-currant jelly and a glassful of port, or a glassful of claret and a small piece of sugar, may be added to the gravy. When a very good gravy is reqviired, make it as follows : —Dissolve a good slice of fresh butter in a saucepan. Put with it the bones and trimmings of the venison, any mutton, beef, or poultry bones that there may be, half a pound of liver, and a kidney. Add the red part of a small carrot scraped to pulp, a minced shallot, a clove, a bay- leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan over the fire till the ingredients are brown. Pour on them as much water as will cover them, and let them simmer for three hours. Strain the gravy, thicken lightly with browTi thickening, clear it from fat, add a wine- glassful of. port, and ser^'e. Time, two to three hours to simmer the gravy ; about an hour to simmer the venison in the sauce. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Hashed (another way).—The venison should be wanned with its own gravy, or some made without seasoning, and only made hot, not quite boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton fat; set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till almost dry, then put it to the hash, and it will eat as weU as the fat of venison. Venison, Hashed (another v^Sij).—See Grame, Hashed (Venison). Venison, Haunch of. —Take a weU- hung haunch of venison weighing from eighteen to twenty-five pounds. If it i^eigh less it will not be fully-flavoured. Be sure that it is in good condition. To ensure this it should be hung, as soon as it is brought in, in a cool, airy situation. The kernel of the fat should be at once removed, the part from which it is taken wiped dry, and it, as weU as the entire haunch, should be dusted with pepper and powdered ginger. The haunch should be examined twice a day, and if any moisture appears it should be |viped \nth a dry cloth ; and the meat should be ivi.pt as long as it can be preserved sweet and Qntainted. In order to ascertain whether or not it is ready for dressing, run a skewer into the flesh close to the bone, and from this judge of the state of the meat. When it is to be roasted, saw off the shank bone, remove the sinews, scrap© away the dark dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Wipe the haunch thoroughly with damp cloths which have been wrung out of lukewarm water, then dry it perfectly. It should be remembered that the more fat there is on the joint the better it will be, and that in roasting the main object is to preserve the fat. There-fore, first cover the haunch with a large sheet of well-greased, thick, white cartridge paper, then with a stiff paste of flour and water rolled out to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch, and tie securely over this with string or tape two additional sheets of greased paper. Put the haunch down to a clear, sound fire, quite near at first, to harden the paste. Draw it back after a minute or two, and bring it gradually nearer. Baste the venison the moment it is put down to prevent the outer paper and the string from burning, and con- tinue to baste frequently and liberally till done enough. Half an hour before it is done remove the paper and the paste from the meat, and a few minutes after take away the last paper. Sprinkle a little salt over the meat, dredge the surface lightly with flour, and then baste with butter dissolved in a spoon. Pour the fat from the dripping-tin, keeping back any brown gravy- there may be. Add half a tea-cupful of boiling water to this gravj"-, pour it into a saucepan, and skim off the fat. Boil it, and add a little salt to it. Put the haunch on a very hot dish, and pour the boiling gravy thi'ough a strainer upon it. Pin a friU of white paper round the knuckle bone. Send venison gravy [see Venison, Gravy for) and venison sauce to table in tm-eens, and let red-currant jelly be served on a separate dish. The gravy should be prepared the day before it is wanted, to ensure its being free from fat. French beans plainly boUed are a suitable accompaniment to haunch of veni- son. Venison fat freezes so quickly that espe- cial care should be taken that the plates are very hot; indeed, hot-water plates ought to be used. Time to roast the venison, from four to five hours, or about thirteen minutes to the pound when the haunch is weighed with the jDaste on. Although the omission is by no means recommended, some cooks omit the flour and water paste; then the haunch not need to be down so long. Doe venison will be done half an hour before buck venison. Venison is preferred underdone rather than overdone. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Suf- ficient for twenty persons. Venison, Haunch of (M. Ude's recipe). —It was customary in France to cut off a small rosette from the leg, to lard and then pickle it. _ In England it is customary to put it on a spit, then to make some paste with flour and water only, and case the venison with it, securing it with a few sheets of paper. It can- not be done thoroughly in less than four hours. It is usually served up -wath red-currant jelly made hot with a little port wine. The women cooks in England put flour over the roast just before they remove it from the spit, a custom