POT POT ( 632 ) Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—Choose potiitooB of uniform Bizo, wash tlium well, and scrub thorn with a soft brush, but do not touch them at all with a knifo, ovon to remove the apecks. Put thorn in a saucepan, barely cover them with cold water, throw in a spoonful of salt, and let them simnKir gently until they are done enough, then let thorn boil quickly for two or three minutes. Drain the water from them, leave them in the saucepan by the side of the tiro partially covered, and let them re- main until they are quite dry, then peel them quickly, and serve at once. Leave the cover of the tureen a lictle on one side, that the steam may escape and not descend upon the potatoes. Time, half an hour to an liour, according to the quality of the potatoes. Pro- bable cost, Id. or IJd. per poimd. Sufficient, half a dozen for two or three persons. Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—"Wash, pare, and boil the potatoes in the usual way. Pour off the water, and instead of drying the potatoes by the side of the fire, turn them into a, bowl. Put the tureen in which they are to be served before the fire. Take each potato separately, lay it in a warm soft napkin, and twist the cloth round it to dry it, and at the same time shape it neatly. Put each potato as it is done into the vegetable dish, and keep this covered with a hot cloth. Serve as quickly as possible. Potatoes are certainly very good pre- pared in this way, but it is necessary to use des- patch in diying them, or they will be cool before they can be served. Time to boU. the potatoes, half an hour to an hour, according to the quality. Probable cost, Id. or Ijd. per pound. Sufficient, two or three for each person. Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—Take twenty middle-sized potatoes, peel, wash, and drain them, put them into a two-quart stewpan with one quart of water and a little salt. When they have boUed fifteen minutes, throw off the water, cover closely, and let them steam till done, which will be in about five minutes more. Potatoes, Boiled (another way).—The boiling of potatoes in the best manner, which to some may seem a very simple affair, requires considerable attention, and much of the good- ness of the vegetable depends on its'being properly cooked. The following directions are given in the Farmer's Magazine, Vol. V., pp. 191 and 503 :—" It is of consequence that the potatoes be as nearly as possible of one size; that they be well washed and cleared of earth or dii-t; that .they be put, with cold water, into a pan or kettle, well rinsed about, and kept there for an hour or two, which will extract the black liquor with which they are impregnated. They ought then to be put, with their skins on, not into boiling water like greens, but into fresh cold water, with a little salt, and boiled in a kettle or saucepan, closely covered, in the most rapid manner. No more water should be put in than merely to cover them, as they produce themselves a considerable quantity of fluid. When sufficiently done, the water should be instantly poured off, and the vessel containing the cooked potatoes is to be placed on the side of the fire with the cover off until the steam be completely evaporated; the potatoes are thus rendered quite dry uiid mealy." Potatoes, Boiled (Irish fashion).—In Ireland potatoes are cooked so that they may have, as they call it, a bone in them; that is, that the middle pait shall not be quite woked. They are done thus:—Put a gallon of water with two ounces of salt in a large iron pot with the potatoes, boil for about ten minutes, or until the skin is loose, pour the water out of the pot, put a dry cloth on the top of the potatoes, and place the pot on the side of the fire, with- out water, for about twenty minutes, and servo, In Ireland turf is the principal aiticle of fuel, which is burnt on the flat hearth; a little of it is generally scraped up round the pot so as to keep a gradual heat; by this plan the potato is both boiled and baked. Probable cost, Id. or IJ^d. per pound. Potatoes, Boiled in their Jackets.— Potatoes are frequently boiled and served in their jackets, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest to receive the skins. They are certainly nicer boiled in this way than in any other, and also better, for the most nutritious portion of the potato is said to lie quite close to the skin, and it is frequently cut off when the potato is carelessly peeled: at the same time this method is an inconvenient and not very tidy way of 8er^^ng them. Choose potatoes of uniform size, and scrub them with a soft brush until they are perfectly clean. Put them into a saucepan with a little cold water, not quite sufficient to cover them. Boil them as gently as possible, for the more slowly they are cooked the better they will be. If a httle salt is thrown in occasionally, it will be found a great improvement. If the potatoes are large, add half a cupful of cold water every now and then. In order to ascertain whether or not they are done enough, probe them occasionally with a fork, and when they are tender throughout, pour off the water, put the saucepan once more on the fire, and let it rfemain until the potatoes are quite dry. Send them to table with the skins on. Time to boil the potatoes, from half an hour to an hour, according to size and quality. AUow six potatoes for two persons. Probable cost, Id. per pound. Potatoes, Broiled. — Take some cold potatoes; cut them lengthwise into slices half an inch thick, dredge a little flour lightly over these, and lay them on a hot gridiron over a clear but not very fierce fire. Turn them about that they may be equally coloured on both sides, and serve very hot. The slices must not be allowed to get hard, or they will be spoilt. Time, till browned. Allow two or tliree potatoes for each person. Probable cost. Id. or lid- per pound. Potatoes Browned under a Roast- ing Joint.—Half boil eight or ten large kidney potatoes. Drain the water from them, flour them well, and lay them in an earthen dish or a tin pan. Put this in the drippmg-pan under the meat, and baste the potatoes liberally from time to time. When they are browiiod on one side turn them upon the other. Before sending to table, place them on blotting-paper