POT ( 622 ) POT dip these in beaton of?g, then into broad-crumbs, and fry thorn in liot fut until thoy aro oqually and lightly brownod. Lot them diuin before the lire, disli tliom on a hot napkin, iind serve immediately. If liked, the potato paste can be shaped into the form of corks or ])oar8, a little piece of parsley-stalk being stuck into them to imitate the stalk. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for a small dish. Potato Dumpling.—Take three parts of dry lioury boiled potatoes, and beat them till they are quite smooth. Put with them one part of whoaten flour, a little salt, and as much milk as is wanted to make a tolerably iSi-m paste. Pour the mixture into a buttered basin, or tie it in a floured cloth, and boil until it is firm and light. Serve either with brown gravy, melted butter, cooked apples, stewed prunes, jam, treacle, or sweet sauce. This preparation of food, though not much known in England, forms a daily meal of poor artisans and others in North Germany, with whom meat is a very unusual luxury. It is cheap, simple, and wholesome. Potato Flour.—The farina of the potato, properly granulated and dried, is frequently sold as a substitute for arrowroot. It may be successfully prepared at home, and will be found upeful for thickening soups, and for makiiig puddings easy of digestion for children and invalids. If kept dry it will remain good for years. Peel and wash some good mealy potatoes—those which have a yellow tint are the best for the purpose. Grate them upon a bread grater into a large pan of cold water, stir them well together, then strain the mass through a sieve. Let the grated potatoes settle until the water is quite clear. Pour the water off, and add fresh, stir up, and let it settle as before; and repeat until the water is quite clear, and the powder remaining at the bottom of the pan is pure white and fine. Spread the potato sediment upon dishes, and dry it in the sun or before the fire. Turn it frequently. Pound it in a mortar, pass it through a hair sieve, put it into jars, and cork securely. It wiU be quite white and flavourless. Time, ten minutes to stand each time between changing the waters. The changes to be repeated until the water that comes from it, after being stirred, is quite pure. A table-spoonful of potato flour mixed with two table-spoonfuls of cold water, stirred into a pint of boiling soup or sauce, and boiled for half a minute, will make the liquid of the consistence of thick cream. Potato Flour (another way).—This flour is obtained by grating any quantity of good mealy potatoes, and steeping them in a vessel of water for six or eight hours. Change the water, and stir every three hours during the day. Pour off this water at night, covering again with fresh water as before. In the morning strain the flour into a hair sieve. Have ready a clean vessel in which to stand the sieve, and wash the flour through it. Allow it to settle, then pour off the water, and spread the sediment on dishes to be put into a slow oven. It will dry quite- white, and keep good in jars, closely scaled up, for a considerable time. Potato Flour, Arrowroot (»eo Arrow. root I'otato Flour). Potato Flour, Miscellaneous Ob- servations on.—Potato Hour can be made into a jelly in the same way as airowroot. It must fiist bo moistened with cold water, then put into a bowl, and boiling water very gradujiJly poured on it, stirring all the time, and in a fow minutcs the jelly will be formed. A little salt or sugar may bo mixed with the moistened flour before the warm water is added, and a little milk will make it very palatable. Potato flour boiled with milk and a little sugar forms one of the most palatable, wholesome, and cheap dishes of which a labouring jnan can paitake, and cannot be too strongly recommended to cottagers, who ought always to convert a por- tion of their potato crop into flour, to be used when fresh potatoes cannot be got. Potato Flour Pudding, Baked.— Boil the thin rind of a lemon, or any other flavouring that may be preferred, in a quart of milk. Mix three table-spoonfuls of potato flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, pour the hot liquid upon this, and stir it until it is cool. Add a little sugar, from three to five well-beaten eggs, and a little brandy or sherrj- if liked. Orange marmalade stirred into the pudding is by many considered an improve- ment. The pudding may be baked before the fire in an American or Dutch oven for twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for foui- or five persons. Potato Flour Pudding, Steamed.— Pour a pint of boiling milk, nicely flavoured, upon a smooth paste, made of three table-spoon- fuls of potato flour mixed with a httle cold milk; add a little sugar and six weU-beaten eggs. Butter a plain round mould rather thickly, and ornament it prettily with alternate rows of stoned raisins and candied fruits. Pour in the pudding, laj'^ a piece of oiled paper upon it, and cover closely. Place the mould upon a plate turned upside down in a saucepan containing boiling water about three inches in depth, and be very careful that the water does not overflow the top. Keep the water boiling until the pudding is done enougl. Turn it carefully upon a hot dish, and send sweet sauce to table in a tureen. If a richer pudding is required, cream may be used instead of milk. Time to steam, an hour and a half. Probable cost, if made with milk. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Flour, Souffll.-Kub the rind of half a lemon upon two or three lumps of sugar until the yellow part is taken oft". Put these into a saucepan with half a pint of milk or cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and thiee table-spoonfuls of sugar. Stir into the hot milk three ounces of potato flour that has been mixed smoothly with a little cold milk, and continue to stir the croam over the fire until it boils. Add the well-bcjiten yolks of throe eggs, and, separately, the wliitos of six whisked to a firm froth. Pour the preparation into the lining of a soufll6 dish, round which has been fastened a baml of oiled paper, to jiro- vent the souflle overflowing the sides whilst