( 1057 ) VEA VEA gently for throe-quai-ters of an hour. Clean two pounds of new potatoes. Let them boil up once, then put them in the stewpan above the meat, cover closely, and simmer again until , they are done enough. Before serving add salt and pepper if required. Place the cutlets in the centre of a hot dish, and put the potatoes round them with any other vegetables that may have been cooked for the pm-pose. Yoimg carrots, gi-een peas, or cauliflowers are aU good. A slice of lean ham is a great improvement to this dish. Time, an hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal Olive Pie.—Take the remains of a iiressed fillet of veal. Cut the meat into thin sHces, cover these with pieces of bacon, spread forcemeat upon them, and roU them firmly. Place them in a pie-dish, pihng them high in the centre, pour over them a little gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the veal and thickened with brown thickening. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, cover with the same, and bake the pie in a weU-heated oven. The pie will of course be much better if the olives are made with fi-esh veal. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, one hour to one hour and a half. Veal Olive Pie (superior). — Make the olives according to the instructions given in the foUowing recipe {see Veal Olives). Place them in the pie-dish, piling them highest iu the centre, and intersperse amongst them a dozen or more forcemeat balls about the size of marbles, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, eight or ten stewed mushi-ooms, and a pickled cucumber sliced. Pour over the olives some good highly-seasoned gi-avy thickened with broMTi thickening and flavoured with lemon- juice and a glassful of sherrj\ A little cream may be added if liked. Cover the pie with good pastry, and bake it in a well-heated" oven. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, one hour to one hour and a half. Veal Olives.—Cut half a dozen slices half an inch thick, seven inches long, and four inches broad, from an imdressed fillet of veal. Flatten these with a chopper, and brush them over with beaten yolk of egg. Lay upon each a thin slice of fat bacon the same size as the veal, brush this also with yolk of egg, and spread a layer of good veal forcemeat over it. _ Roll each piece up tightly, and bind it with twine. _ Flour the olives, or if preferred brush them with egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Melt a little dripping in a frying-pan, put in the olives, and turn them about till they are lightly browned all over. Drain, and place them closely side by side in a saucepan just largo enough to hold them. Pour over them as much boiling gravy as wiU cover them, and let them simmer very gently till done enough. Lift them on a dish, strain the gravy over and garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. The grav-y in which the olives arc to bo stewed may be made as follows: —Take the bones and trimmings of the veai with any bones of poultry that there may be; break them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a slice of butter or drip- ping, two sliced onions, a handful of parsley, a blade of mace, four cloves, and six or eight peppercorns. Shake the saucepan over the tire till the ingredients become slightly bro\^'ned, then pour in gi-adually a quart of hot water. Let this boil, and thicken with a lump of brown thickening. Failing this, mix a table- spoonful of flour smoothly with a little cold water in a basin. Stii- a portion of the boiling liquor with this, and add it to the rest. Add. also a table-spoonful of ketchup and as much sugar browning as will make the gravy of a good colour. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently tiU the gi'avy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain the sauce, let it cool a short time, clear it from fat, stir in some salt, let it boil, and it wiU be ready for use. If there are no bones from the veal, one pennyworth of fresh bones or half a pound of lean beef or veal may be used instead. Time, one hour and a half to simmer the bones, two hours to stew the oHves. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal Olives (another way). — Cut five slices of veal six inches long, four wide, and as thin as possible, from the fillet, and an equal number of exceedingly thin slices of bacon of the same shape and size. Fatten the veal with a chopper, spread a portion of the forcemeat upon it, and cover this with the bacon. Roll the ohves firmly, and fasten them with a skewer, or bind them with twine. Flom- them, or if preferred dip them twice in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Bro^N-n them in a little fat, jmt them side by side in a small stewpan, cover with gravy, and simmer very gently till tender, basting them constantly. When done enough place them on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, and stir into it a glassful of light wine or a table- spoonful of lemon-juice or walnut-pickle. Let it boU, pour it over the olives, and serve. By way of variety, iostead of ordinary veal force- meat the stuffing may be prepared as follows:— Scrape half a pound of undressed veal and one ounce of lean ham with the back of a knife tiU the fibre only is left. Put this pulp into a mortar with a cleaned ancho-^y, an ounce of suet from the loin chopped separately, a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of mixed and powdered herbs, a dessert-spoon- ful of com-fiour, and a little salt, cayenne, and gTated nutmeg. Mx and pound the ingredients thoroughly, and bind the forcemeat together with beaten egg. Time, about two hours to stew the oUves. Probable cost, veal. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal Olives (another way).—Prepare the olives in the usual way. Brown them in a little fat, drain them, pack them in a saucepan^ and stew them in gravy till tender. A few mmutes before serving put with them half a pint of stewed button mushrooms, a table- spoonful of lemon pickle or lemon-juice, and a glassful of Marsala. A dozen fried oysters may be added if liked. Veal Olives, Roasted.—Prepare the olives as before. Skewer them and bind them fii-mly to keep in the forcemeat. Flour them.