PIG ( 561 ) Pigeons (on Papillotes).—Pluck and draw two young freshly-killed pigeons, and split them'ill two down the back. Season rather hi"-hly with pepper, and cover them with a mfxture made of the liver finely minced, two shallots, chopped small, half a dozen sliced button-mushrooms, a table-spoonful of shi-ed parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Lay thin slices of fat bacon over the mixture, and PIGEOSS EN PAPILLOTES. enclose each half pigeon in a sheet of thick writing-paper which has been liberally oiled on both sides. The paper must be sufficiently large to enfold the birds, and the edges must be twisted tightly in, to prevent the escape of the gravy. Broil the birds over a clear fire, and servo them in the papillotes. They will not require any sauce. Time to broil, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 28. 3d. Suf- ficient for two j)ersons. Pigeons (en Surprise).—Pluck and draw two plump young pigeons, and truss them as if for boiling. Put them into boiling water for a minute to blanch them, then take them out, put in their jilaces two fine large lettuces, and let these boil for fully fifteen minutes. Whilst they are boiling, make a forcemeat with the livers of the birds, a slice of bacon, two or three leaves of tarragon, two shallots, and a spoonful of parsley, all finely minced, seasoned with pepper and salt, and bound together with the beaten yolk of an egg. Take up the let- tuces, press the water from them, open them, ■without taking off the leaves, line them with the forcemeat, and place a pigeon inside each lettuce so as to be hid entirely. Tie the ends with thread, and stew all gently together in as much stock as will cover the pigeons. A bunch of parsley, a carrot, an onion, two cloves, and half a blade of mace may be put into the saucepan to flavour the gravy. "When the pigeons are done enough take them up, drain them, and remove the twine. Keep them hot before the fire whilst the sauce is strained and thickened with a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening. Serve the pigeons in the lettuces on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round them. Time, one hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Forcemeat for [see Forcemeat for Pigeons). Pigeons, Pricandeau of.—Pluck and draw four plump young pigeons, and stuff them \vith a forcemeat made of the livers of the birds, finely minced, mixed with an equal quantity of finely-shred suet and of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a table-spoonful of shred parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Season the mixture with salt and cayenne, and bind it together with beaten yolk of egg. Truss the pigeons as if for roasting, and lard theii* breasts deli- cately with very slender lardoons. Lino the bottom of a braising-pan with slices of fat bacon. Place a thin layer of veal on this, and then the pigeons, breast to breast. Put another layer of veal and of bacon over the pigeons, pour upon them a pint of good stock, and add any bones or trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand, together with a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a glass of sheity, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let the bii-ds stew gently for an hour. Lift out the pigeons, strain and skim the gTavy, and boil it down quickly until it is much reduced. Put in the pigeons once more, and baste them liberally untU they are suf- ficiently glazed. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round them. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons, Fricasseed, Brown.—Take three plump young pigeons; make them ready for boiling, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Put them into a stewpan, with three ounces of clarified butter, and turn them about until they are brightly browned all over. Take them up, drain them well, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a pint of nicely-seasoned stock and a glass of claret. Add a bunch of parsley, a smaU sprig of thyme, three inches of thin lemon-rind, five or six small onions, a little pepper and salt, and a few grains of cayenne. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let the pigeons stew gently fol half an hour; take them up, thicken the liquor with brown thickening, and add a few small mushrooms and a table-spoonful of lemon juice. When the sauce is smooth, heat the birds in it again, dish them, and pour the gravy over them. This dish may be varied in several ways. A few veal forcemeat-balls may be boiled in the gravy, or a dozen oysters may be fried and laid over the birds and the dish may be garnished with sliced lemon, toasted sippets, or strips of curled bacon. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of the wine and garnishes. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pigeons, Fried.—Pluck, singe, and draw two young pigeons, and truss them as if for boiling. Spread a little clarified butter over them, and dredge them well with flour. Lay two or three rashers of bacon in a stewpan, place the pigeons upon these, season with salt and pepper, and turn them about until they are nicely browned all over. Add half a cupfiU of water, and steam them until done enough. Take them up, drain them well, dip them into some frying batter, and let them be entirely covered with it. Fry in hot fat until they are brightly browned, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish the disli with parsley, and send the gravy to table in a tureen. The fry- ing batter may be made as follows :—Make five ounces of dried flour into a paste by stin-ing into it half a pint of water. ]Mix two table- spoonfuls of oil smoothly with the <voll-boaten yolks of two eggs, and add a pinch of salt; mix these ingredients with the flour and water. The batter ought to be rather thicker than.