WHI WHI ( 1115 ) white sugar, four ounces of currants cleaned and picked, two ounces of ground rice, a table- spoonful of candied lemon-peel, and the same quantity of candied orange-peel, both chopped small, an ounce of sweet and four bitter al- monds blanched and chopped, and a little gi-ated nutmeg. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, moisten with a quarter of a pint of new milk, and bind the mixture together -with two well- whisked eggs. Beat the pudding with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes, put it into weU- cleaned skins, and be careful to leave room for the mixtiu-e to swell. Tie the ends securely, put the puddings into boiling water, and boH gently until done enough. Before serving them remove the skins. If liked, the puddings may be put aside and kept for a while before being used. They must then be hung separately in a cool situation, and boiled for a short time, to heat them, before serving. Time to boil the puddings, about two hours and a half; when boiled the second time, a quarter of an hour will be sufficient. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Suf- ficient for six or eight persons. White Boux.—Dissolve a pound of fresh butter in a saucepan over a slow fire; skim it thoroughly, and pour the pure oily part into a clean saucepan, leaving behind the thick curd at the bottom. Stir into it very gradually one pound of well-dried flour, and stir it over a very gentle fire tUl it is thoroughly baked but not at all browned. The more slowly it is done the better, but care must be taken that it does not acquire the least colour. Put it into a small jar for use; it will keep for some time. Sufficient, a tea-spoonful will thicken half a pint of gravy. White Sauce. — Melt two ounces of butter, and fry in it gently two ounces of lean ham. Do not let it discolour. Stir into it one ounce and a half of flour, pour on one pint of white stock, and add six button mushrooms cut up smaU, and two small carrots. Stir the sauce tUl it boils, draw the pan back, put the lid half on, and simmer gently for a quarter of ah hour. Skim away the fat, strain the sauce through a tamis, add half a gill of cream, and the sauce is ready. White Sauce (a French recipe),—Take one ounce of good butter, put it into a sauce- pan, stir in a spoonful of flour, add a glass- ful of water, put it on the fire, and keep stirring. When the sauce boils, take it off, set it on one side, and salt it. Should it be too thick, add a little water; if too thin, a piece of butter rolled in flour. Just before serving, beat up the yolks of two or three eggs to stir in ; warm the sauce, but take care not to let it boil; then put in a dash of vinegar. White Sauce, Celery with {see Celeiy with White Sauce). White Sauce, Cucumber {see Cucum- ber White Sauce). White Sauce, Economical.—Beat two ounces of flour and an oimce of butter to a smooth paste in a saucepan over the fire. Add gradually a pint of milk and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over the fire for a few minutes, strain through a pointed strainer, and it will be ready for use. White Sauce, Eggs and {see Eggs and White Sauce). White Sauce for Boiled Chicken {see Chicken, White Sauce for Boiled). White Sauce for Pish.—Mince two anchovies, and put them into a delicately clean saucepan with a glassful of light wine, a glass- ful of vinegar, and an onion stuck with one clove. Simmer all gently together till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the liquor. Mix a dessert - spoonful of flour smoothly with a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan; cook thoroughly, then add a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire for a few minutes till it thickens, lift it from the fire, and add the strained liquor. Or mix half an ounce of butter in a saucepan with an ounce of flour; stir in half a pint of cream or milk, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a little cayenne. Stir the sauoe over the fire for a minute or two, and serve. White Sauce for Pike {see Pike, White Sauce for). White Sauce for Turkey or Fowl.— Take the head, neck, heart, and feet of the birds, wash them thoroughly in hot water, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with a slice of lean veal, two sprigs of parsley, a spig of thyme, a square inch of thin lemon-rind, a blade of mace, three pepper- corns, and a quart of cold water. Cover closely, and simmer gently till the stock is strong and good. Strain the liquor through a napkin laid in a sieve, and when cold free it entirely from fat. Put a tumblerful into a saucepan, and let it boil. Stir into it a table-spoonful of fiour which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and add more milTr or cream to make it equal the measure of the stock. Stir the sauce over the fire till it is white and thick, and add pepper and salt if required. If the sauce is to be poured over cold poultry, it should be made thick enough to adhere to the birds: therefore, less stock should be used for the sauce, with a Httle more flour and cream. When more convenient, the veal may be omitted, and a tea-spoonful of gelatine may be used instead. The liquor in which poultry, veal, or rabbits have been boUed is excellent for making white sauce. Time to simmer the stock, about two hours ; to simmer the sauce, a few minutes. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. . White Sauce for Vegetables. —Put a pint of stock made from bones into a saucepan with an inch of lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, and six peppercorns. Let it simmer for half an hour, then strain it. Mix a table- spoonful of corn-flour smoothly with a Uttle cold milk. Stir this into the stock, and also a little more milk to make up the measure to about three-quarters of a pint. Add pepper and salt if required. Simmer the sauce, stirring it well, for about five minutes; pour it out, stir into it a small piece of fresh butter until it is dissolved, and serve. Time, altogether, ouq hour.