SAL SAL ( 797 ) three well-beaten eggs. Cover the pan, and let it rise till light. Make the dough into thick cakes about tive inches in diameter. Bake in a quick oven. Or rub two ounces of butter into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, and pour in very slowly a table-spoonful of fresh yeast which has been mixed with half a pint of warm milk. Beat the batter with a fork or spoon as the milk is poured in, add the yolks of two eggs, and set the dough near the fire to rise. Butter the tins, till them with the dough, and bake in a quick oven. To prepare the sallylunns, make them hot, divide them into three slices, and butter these liberally. If a very rich cake is required, cream may be used instead of uulk. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sallylunns (Careme's recipe).—Sift twelve ounces of flour, separate a fourth part, in which make a hollow, put in it nearly half an ounce of yeast and a little lukewarm cream; mix the flour gradually with this, and put it into a small stewpan to rise (it should be very soft). When double its first size, form the remaining flour in the requisite manner, and put in the centre a quarter of an ovmce of salt, one oimce of poimded sugar, four yolks of eggs, five ounces of butter made warm only, and a gill of lukewarm cream; stir this mixture, mingling the flour with the liquid until of a soft con- sistence, and beat the paste for some minutes with the palm of the hand; then, if perfect, add the leaven, and work it yet some minutes to render it smooth and elastic; put it into a plain mould six inches wide and five inches high, weU "buttered, and set it in a proper place to ferment; when double its primitive volume, wash the top with egg, and place it in a quick oven for an hotir; when serving, divide it horizontally about the centre, turn the top upside down, and the cake should present the appearance of a honeycomb; throw on it a pinch of salt, and butter it with five ounces of the best butter, putting equal quantities on each; put the top on again, and serve hot. Sallylunns (another way).—Take two pounds of flour, one pint of milk, four eggs, and two spoonfuls of yeast; make a psste of these ingredients, and work until well risen. Then knead into it a pound of butter and a little salt; let it stand an hour, then bake, and rasp the tops. A little pounded sugar may be added to taste to the above ingredients. Salmagundi.—A salmagundi is a sort of vegetable mosaic made with pickled her- ring, cold dressed chicken, salt beef, radishes, endive, olives, &c., all arranged with regard to contrast in colour as well as flavour, and served with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. The fol- lowing is a good recipe for a salmagundi:— Take a large round dish; place in the centre a bunch of fresh endive, and lay round it strips of herring or anchovy, interspersed with neat slices from the breast of a chicken. Put round these a band of hard-boiled yolk of egg chopped small, then one of green parsley, then slices of rod beef or tongue, then the white of the egg, and lastly a garland of sprigs of watercress. Insert trimmed olives, green oapors, radishes, bttrberrios, «fcc., wherever they will be most efliective. Serve with salad sauce. Sometimes the herrings for a salmagundi are opened, and the flesh is taken out without injuring the skin. It is then minced with an equal quantity of cold chicken and grated ham or tongue, seasoned rather highly, and put back into the skins tUl they look plump and of a good shape. Salmagundi (another way).—Take cold fowl, or turkey, or veal, or all together. Chop the meat very small, separating the white from the brown, and putting among the latter the brown part of the veal, if it be roasted. By the brown meat is understood the legs and backs of the poultry. Chop likewise the lean of some cold ham, a few boned anchovies washed, a handful of picked parsley, half a dozen shallots, some pickled gherkins, the yolks and whites separate of six hard-boiled eggs, and some roasted beetroot, after it has become cold. Now butter a basin, and place it with the bottom upwards upon a dish. Lay round this basin a ring of chopped white meat an inch and a half wide and about an inch high; then lay upon this a ring of ham, then a ring of brown meat then one of white of egg, then one of meat, then one of yolk of egg, then one of parsley, then one of anchovies, and so on, until the whole of the materials are consumed and the basin is covered, crowning the whole with a roof of beetroot garnished with a few pickled mushrooms. The sauce must be served up in a sauce-tureen. It is thus made:—Rub up a couple of good tea- spoonfuls of strong mustard from the mustard- pot with three table-spoonfuls of salad oil, some salt, and a little cayenne pepper. When it has become a stiff paste, add gradually one table-spoonful of white-wine vinegar, the juice of three or four lemons, a dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, two table- spoonfuls of raw capers, and a tea-spoonful of soy. Should the sauce not be sufficiently thin, add more lemon-juice or vinegar. Salmis.—A salmis is siTaply a superior ragout of game or wild fowl. It differs from a hash in this, that the hash is made from the remains of dressed game, the salmis from game which has been half dressed for the purpose, and served in rich gravy or sauce. Salmis are favourite dishes with epicures. Salmis, Cold (for suppers, &o.).—Boast a couple of partridges, a pheasant, or any other game. Cut them into neat joints, and with the bones and trimmings make a salmis sauce, ac- cording to the recipe given a little farther on. When this is pleasantly flavoured, mix with it a third of its quantity in very stiff' aspic jeUy. Cover the joints of the birds thickly with this, and let it get cold and stiff' upon them. Pile them high on a dish, and garnish with clear aspic jelly cut into dice. Salmis, Hunter's.—Divide a half-roasted pheasant or partridge into neat joints. Care- fully remove the skui and sinews, and put the pieces into a saucepan. Pour over them a glass- ful of lucca oU, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, and a little salt and cayenne. Let the game he^it slowly over a gentle fire, and when the joints