( 628 ) POT POT keep the strips iia nearly as possible of one width. Thoy must not be too thin or they will break. I Fry them in plenty of liot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain th(Mii on a wire sieve, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them. Serve on a hot dish. Time to fry, eiglit or ten minutes. Probable cost of potatoes, Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Potato Rice.—Boil two pounds of pota- toes—regents are best for the purpose—mash them with two ounces of butter and four table- spoonfuls of boiling milk, and season with pepper and salt. Put them into a largo colander, and press them through this on to a hot dish, and wliilst doing so, shake the colander every minute or so, that the potatoes may fall lightly like rice. Serve very hot, with broiled steak or sausages. Time, about three-quarters of an hoiu-. Probable cost of potatoes, Id. or l^d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Rissoles.—Take two pounds of mashed potatoes, and mix with them two table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Make them up into balls the size of a small apple, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat till they are equally and brightly browned. Drain them on blotting paper, and serve them piled high on a white d'oyley. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. or l^d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Rolls.—Take four large boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Mash them till they are smooth, and while they are still hot, mix with them a little salt, a table-spoonful of clarified butter, and half a pint of hot milk. When the mixture is lukewarm, add half a tea- cupful of yeast, and as much flour as will make a firm dough. Knead it well, cover with a cloth, and set it near the fire to rise. When it is sufficiently light, mould it into rolls, place these a little apart from each other on buttered tins, let them rise again for about ten minutes, and bake in a well-heated oven till they are firm, but they must not be too hard. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient, allow one for each person. Potato Salad.—Potato salad may be made all the year round with both new and old potatoes, and when plainly boiled is an agreeable accompaniment to cold meat. Cold potatoes that are left may be served up in this way, and wiU form an appetising dish. If the potatoes are boiled on purpose for the salad, small ones should be picked out, as they often prove wasteful when boiled with large ones. They should be boiled in their jackets, and should be peeled and sliced whilst warm. Make the salad two or three hours before it is wanted. Cut the potatoes into slices the third of an inch thick. Put these in layers into the salad bowl, and sprinkle over each layer a little pepper and salt, finely-chopped parsley, and, if liked, minced chives or shallot. Add oil and vinegar in the proportion of two table-spoonfuls of vinegar to three of oil. and stir them well into the salad. Garnish with sliced beet-root, pickled gherkins, olives, or herbs, or boil an egg hard, mince tho^ yolk and the white separately, and place them in little heaps round the salad. A chopped bloater or two or tliroe sardines finely minu:(l may be stirred in with a potato salad as aa occasionnl clumge, and tarragon vinegar may bo substituted for plain vinegar. Potato Salad (a French recipe).—Th<? following is a good formula for the simple but delicious potato salad of a Parisian hotel:—Cut ten or twelve cold boiled potatoes into sliws from a quarter of an inch to half an inch thick; put these into a saLad bowl with four table- spoonfuls of tarragon or- plain vinegar, six table-spoonfuls of best salad-oil, one table- spoonful of minced parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir well, that all the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed. Potato salad should be made two or three hours before it is required for the table. Anchovies, olives, or any pickles may be added to it, and also bits of cold beef, chicken, or turkey, if desired. It is excellent, however, without these. Potato Salad (a German recipe).—Cut the potatoes into slices the third of an inch thick, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt amongst them. Cut two or three rashers of bacon into very small pieces, and fry these over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned. Pour into the pan with them half a cupful of water and half a cupful of vinegar, let the bacon simmer in this for a minute, and pour the sauce over the potatoes. If after soaking a little time the salad looks dry, add half a cupful of milk. Time, five or six minutes to make the salad dressing. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. to l^d. per poimd. Potato Sandwiches.—Cut a pound of cold roast beef into slices, and fry these gently in hot fat for two or three minutes. Take them up, drain them, and spread over them on both sides a layer of mashed potatoes a quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into egg and bread- crumb, and frj' in hot fat till they arc lightly browned. Serve piled on a white napkin. Time to fiy the sandwiches, five or six minutes. Potato Snow.—Choose fine white potatoes free from spots. Wash them well, put them in their jackets into a saucepan, and barely cover them with cold water. Let them boil gently imtil they begin to crack, then pour the water from them, let them drain, and then dry by the side of the fire until they fall to piecet;. Take away the skins, and lay the hot dish on which the potatoes are to be served before the fire. Rub the potatoes through a hot wire sieve, so that they shall fall lightly upon the dish, and on no account disturb them after they have fallen. Serve very hot. Time, thirty to forty minutes to boil the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. or I Jd. per poimd. Sufficient, three potatoes for one person. Potato Souflle.—Bake six or eight large potatoes, and when they are done enough bur.'^t the skins, and scoop out the floury part with a spoon. Take a quarter of a pound of this flour and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of finely- .sifted sugar, an ounce of butter, half a pint of I boiling cream pleasantly flavoured with lemon-