( 564 ) PIG PIG parsley. Spriiilde the pigeons with a little sauce, and then pour the sauce over them. Pigeons served with Water-Cress. —Koust a coupli) of young piyt'uus in tlio usual way. Wash and pick two or thioe bunclios of young wator-cross, and dry thoni well. To do this, put thorn into a dry cloth, tidvc; hold of this by the four corners, and shako the leaves until they aro chy. Put thcni on a dish, sprinkle a little salt over them, lay the pigeons upon them, and pour brown gravy over. The cresses aro sometimes arranged round the dish instead of being placed under the birds. Time, about twenty minutes to roast the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeon Soup.—Take half a dozen plump pigeons and roast them lightly. Pick off the best of the moat and lay it aside. Flour the bones well, and crush them in a mortar. Cut into small pieces a large carrot, an onion, an •ounce of lean ham, and half a head of celery, and fry these in butter with a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a smaU sprig of thjmie, three clovss, and half a blade of mace. Stir these ingre- dients over the fii-e until they are brightly browTied. Add the crushed bodies of the birds and one ounce of brown thickening—or, fail- ing this, a lump of butter rolled in flour—and moisten the whole with a quart of stock or water. Bring the liquid to the boil, skim thoroughly, let it simmer gently for an hour, then strain the 60up, and pulp the vegetables through a tammy. Pour the soup back into the pot, add the flesh of the pigeons, and pepper and salt if required. Skim it again, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, about three hours. Probable cost, .5s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pigeons, Stewed.—^Pluck and draw two plump young pigeons, and divide them into •quarters. Put these into a stewpan with a little salt, and a small quantity of water, say as much as will three-parts cover them. Place the lid on the saucepan, and let the birds stew gently until they are almost done, then add a pinch of pepper, and half an ounce of fresh butter, and let them simmer again until they are sufficiently cooked. Take them up, thicken the gravy with a tca- epoonful of flour mi.\ed smoothly in it, and add two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Let it boil, then draw it from the fire, let it cool for a minute, and stir into it a well-beaten «gg. Put the pigeons in again to get hot, and serve immediately. The gravy must not boil after the egg is added. A little cream is a great improvement to this dish, though it may be di.spensed with. Time, twenty minutes to etew the pigeons. Probable cost. Is. 9d. Suf- ficient for tsvo persons. Pigeons, Stewed (another way).—Truss four plump young pigeons as if for boiling; cover their breasts with thin slices of fat bacon tied securely on with twine, and stew them in .a little veal broth according to the directions given for " Stewed Pigeons." Wliilst the pigeons are stewing, prepare a mixture of vegetables, such as French beans, carrots, turnips, and cauliflowers, and arrange it so that thoy shall be done enough at the same time as the pigeons. Take a piece of the stale crumb of bread, and sliapo it neatly, making it three and a half inches liigh,tho liottom part four inches square, and the top jjart two and a half inches squiire. Fry this in hot butter until it is lightly browned all over, then drain it from the tat, and fl.v it in the middle of a dish with paste made of the white of egg Jiiixed smoothly with a little flour. Take up the jjigoons, and lean each one against one of the sides of the piece of fried bread. Anange the vegetables between the pigeons, so as to hide the bread entirely from view, and ornament the top with a cauhflower, or half a dozen Brussels sprouts. Pour a little white sauce over the pigeons only, and send a little more to table in a turoeo. Time, about an hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost of pigeons, from 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pigeons, Stewed (another way).—Make a stuffing with pigeons' livers parboiled and bruised in a mortar, add bread-crumbs, butter, pepper, salt, i)oun(ied cloves, j^arsley, sweet herbs chopped small, and the yolk of an egg. Fill the bu'ds with this stuffing, and tie them up at both ends. Half roast or fry them, then place them in good gravy or beef broth, along vidth an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of QT73et herbs, and a sUce of lemon. Stew the pigeons A'ery gently for about an hour, strain and skim off the fat, add pickled mushrooms, hard-yolk-of-egg balls and forcemeat-balls. It is an imjn'ovement to lard the pigeons. Pigeons Stewed with Asparagus.— Prepare and stew the pigeons as in either of the two last recipes. Cut off the gi-een tender points from fifty heads of asparagus, and divide these into pieces not more than the thnd of an inch in length. Wash them well, and blanch them in boiUng water. When the pigeons are almost done enough, put in the asparagus, and simmer again until they are tender. Time, about an hour to stew the asparagus. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons Stewed with Cabbage.— Pluck, singe, and draw two pigeons, and stuff them with a forcemeat made as follows:—Iilince the livers finely, and mix with them an equal quantity of finely-shred beef suet, and grated bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a. table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a salt-spoonful of powdered thj-me. Moisten the whole with the yolk of a beaten egg. Truss the pigeons firmly, as if for boil- ing. Half boil a good-sized white cabbage, and shred it finely. Drain thorou<jhly, and lay it at the bottom" of a stewpan. Place the pigeons upon it, cover them with white stock, put the lid on the saucepan, and stew the whole gently till quite tender, then add a lump of butter the size of an egg rolled in flour, and two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Stew a few minutes longer, and serve as hot as possible. The pigeons should l)e served on a hot dish with the cabbage and sauce round them. Pro- bable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for two or three pei'sons. Pigeons Stewed with Green Peas. —Pluck, draw, and singe two plump young