VEA ( 1028 ) VEA Veal and Ham Pie,—Tako from a pound and a half lo two pounds of vual cutluta or of nii'O loan voal from any part. Cut those into nuat square piouos about tho sizu of a walnut, i'ut a layer at tho bottom of a pio-disli, and .sprinkle upon the meat a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, anotlier of pow- dered mace, and another of minced savoury herbs. Lay upon these tiavouring ingredients two or throe slices of ham or streaky bacon, and repeat the alternate layers until the dish is full. Let ham constitute the uppermost layer. Tho yolks of three eggs boiled hard iind cut into slices m;iy be interspersed with the meat. Pour half a pint of stock u])on the meat. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with tho same, ornament the sur- face, brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, pour a little boiling gravy into the pie, and serve. This pie may be enriched by the addition of a little forcemeat, or a few oysters or mushrooms, or a sweetbread, but it will be found excellent Avithout them. If liked, a gravy prepared as follows may be poured upon the meat instead of stock:—Take a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a minced shallot, and a tea-spoon- ful of parsley. Fry these in a little butter over a gentle fire. Add half a pint of stock or water, a small piece of brown thickening, a little pepper and salt, and a spoonful of ketchuj). Stu- the sauce till it boils, add a few drops of lemon-juice, strain it, and it will be ready for use. Time to bake the pie, an hour and a half or more according to size. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., plainly made. Veal and Ham, To Press {see Ham and Veal, To Press). Veal and Macaroni Pudding.—Take as much veal (free from bone) as will about three-parts fill the pudding-basin it is intended to use. When fortune is favom'able, half a poimd of bacon, the veal kidney or part of it, the sweetbread, or a few oysters or mushrooms, may be added to the veal. Cut the meat into small neat pieces, and season with ]Depper and salt. Break into one-inch lengths as much macaroni as will fiU the vacant space in the pudding-basin, and soak these in lukewarm water for half an hour. Line the pudding- basin with good suet pastry. Fill it with layers of meat and macaroni, and sprinkle grated lemon and powdered mace between the layers. Add half a tea-cupful of stock or w^ater for gravy and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Lay a pastry cover on the top of the pud- ding, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling (juickly until done enough. Take it up, untie the cloth, and run a sharp skewer into the pudding, in order to ascertain whether or not the meat is tender. If not, it will re- quire longer boiling. If it is done enough, turn it out carefully upon a hot dish, and serve iinmcdiately. Time to boil a pudding made w ith a poimd and a half of veal, about two hours. Probable cost, varying with tlie nature of the contents. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Veal and Rico Soup.—Tako about four pounds of the knuckle of veal, lij'uak up tho bones, and put them wiUi the meat into a small stock-pot with a gallon of stock made from bones, or water and any trimmings of meat or l)Oultry that may be at hand. 'I'he knuckle- bone of a ham or a little scalded and scraped bacon-rind will be a great improvement. Lot the liquor boil, skim well, and tlnow into it two carrots, a turnip, two onicjns, each stuck with one clove, a few sticks of celery or a little celery-seed, and pep])er and Siilt. Simmer the stock very gently indeed for tlrree hours. Take out the meat, and put it aside till wanted. Sti'ain the licpioi', and pour it into a smaller saucepan with half a pound of lialf-boiled rice. Let it simmer until the rice is quite tender. Cut the veal into pieces convenient for serving, let them become hot in the liquor. Pour the soup, with the rice and veal, into a tureen, and serve very hot. Time, four hours. Piobable cost, knuckle of veal, 6d. to 7d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Veal, Bachelor's Stew of.—In order to di-ess veal successfully in this way there should be at hand a small saucepan with a very closely-fitting lid. Take a shoe of veal from the fillet, about two inches tliick, and weighing from two to thi-ee pounds. Dis- solve a slice of fresh butter in the sauce- pan and brown the cutlet in this on both sides. Dredge it with pepper, and place upon it a little piece of lean ham, together with two or three sliced caiTots, some sticks of celcrj', a few onions or peas, or any other suitable flavouring ingredients, together with salt and cayenne, a spoonful of ketchup, and a tea- cupful of boiling stock or water. Cover the saucepan verj^ closely, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible till done enough. Place the veal on a hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, thicken the gi'avy, pour it over the meat, and serve very hot. Time to simmer, an hour and three-quarters. Probable cost, with two pounds of veal, 3s. Sufficient for two or three persons. Veal, Blanquette of, Made from Cold Dressed Meat.—Take from two to three pounds of cold dressed veal. Cut it into neat slices, and trim away the brown outside. Put these slices into a dish, cover them over, and keep them in a cool place till wanted. Mince the bro-svn part, and put it into a sauce- pan with a good-sized onion chopped small, a stick of celerj', a bunch of parsley, a Httle pepper and salt, and a pint of stock made from bones. Let all simmer gently together for half an horn-. Strain the gmyy, and put it again into the saucepan with a pinch of pounded mace, the strained juice of half a lemon, and the shoes of veal. Let it simmer a minute or two. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl. Mix a small quantity of the warm gravy with them, and add them gradually to the rest. Stir the sauce tm it is smooth and tliick, but it must not boil or it wiU curdle. This dish is excellent with green peas as an accompaniment. Tmie, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost, exciusiv(> of the cold meat, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons.