SAU SAV ( 837 ) Sausages Stewed with Chestnuts. Taki' one pound of delicato siiusuge-meat, seasoned with salt and cayenne, but without any herbs. Divide it into small round cakes three-(iuarters of an inch thick, and fiy these in hot fat till they are lightly browned on both aides; di-ain theiu on a sieve. Throw half a hundi-ed fine Spanish chestnuts into boiling water, and lot them boil for eight or ten minutes. Dry them, and when nearly cool make a little incision in the outer skin of each nut to keep it from bursting. Roast the nuts, and when they are soft skin "them. Pour the fat in which the sausages were fried into a delicately clean saucepan; then stir a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly into it, and beat the paste over the fire till "it is lightly coloured. Add gradually half a pint of good stock, a small bunch of savoury herbs, and a seasoning of salt^ and cayenne. A glass of wine may be put in or not. Let the sauce boil up once, put in gently the sausages and chestnuts, and simmer all gently together for an hour. Pile the chest- nuts in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the sausages round them, and strain the sauce over all. Serve very hot. Probable cost, sausage- meat. Is. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sausages, To prepare the Skins for. —A ho^'s or an ox's intestines are used to put sausages into. " They are thus prepared. Empty them, cut them in lengths and lay them for three or four days in salt and water, or weak lime-water. Turn them inside out two or three times, and scrape them well, llinse them well, dry them -with a soft cloth, and they wiU be ready for use. Sausages, Veal.—Take any quantity of lean veal with half its weight in fat pork. Mince the two separately, then mix them, and pound the mixture in a mortar till it is quite smooth. Season with salt, pepper, and pow- dered mace, form it into cakes about three- quarters of an inch thick, flour these well, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. Drain them, and serve very hot. Time to fry, about ten minutes. Probable cost, sausages, Is. Id. per poimd. Saute-pan.—This is a shallow copper ves- sel with two handles, used in French cookery to sautcr, which is a term of art nearly but not quite equivalent to frying: for in this operation the fillets of meat are frequently turned or tossed over, and a small quantity only of fatty matter is employed; hence the term sauter, *\to jump." This process of cookery is some- times called " dry frying." Sautes.—M. Udo makes the following re- mark regarding sautes or dishes fried lightly: —Mind, you must never let the saute be too much done. These dishes are very difficult to make in perfection. When they are too much done they are not eatable. It is this point of perfection in the management of cookery which distinguishes the good from the bad cook. Sayarin Cake.—Put one pound of dried and sifted flour into a pan, and make a hollow in the centre. Dissolve half an ounce of Ger- man yeast in a smaU quantity of warm milk. and set the sponge by pouring this into th« hollow, and beating into it with the fingei-s about a quarter of the flour. Sprinkle flour over the batter thus made, put the basin in a warm place, and let the sponge rise slowly to twice its size. Work into it with a spoon or with the right hand a quarter of a pint of warm milk and two eggs, and add gradually three- quarters of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, half an ounce of salt dissolved in a little warm water, two ounces of powdered sugar, the eighth, of a pint additional milk, and three more eggs. Lastly, add two ounces of candied peel cut small. The additions should be made very graduallj--, the eggs being put in one at a time, and the preparation being beaten well until it leaves the sides of the bowl easily. Butter the inside of a fluted mould rather thickly, and sprinkle a table-spoonful of blanched and chopped almonds on the butter. Beat the paste up again, and half fill the mould with it; let it stand in a warm place till it has risen level with the top of the mould. Tie a broad band of buttered paper round the top of the mould, to keep the paste from rimning over the sides, and bake the cake in a moderate oven. When done enough, turn it out carefully, run a skewer into several parts of it, and pour over and into it a thick syrup flavoured with cura^oa or any other suitable liqueur. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the surface, and send the cake to table warm. Time to bake, one hour or more. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of the liqueur. Sufficient or five or six persons. Save-all Pudding.—Put any scraps oi bread there may be into a bowl, and over a quarter of a pound of these pour a pint of boil- ing milk. Let the bread soak till soft, thee beat it well wdth a fork till no lumps remain. Add, whilst beating, two eggs, two table- spoonfuls of finely-shred suet, or a slice of sweet butter or dripping, two table-spoonfuls of picked currants, two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered sugar, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated, or any other suitable flavouring. Two apples, pared, cored, and quartered, may be added tc the pudding or not. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the pudding is set and nicely browned on the surface it is done enough. Time to bake, an hour or more. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Saveloy.—Under this name we have a kind of sausage common in the shops of the metro- polis. The saveloy differs from the ordinary pork sausage only in its being made of young salted pork; it is highly seasoned, and a little saltpetre is added to give the meat a red colour. Saveloys.—Take a piece of tender pork, free from skin and gristle, and weighing about two pounds. Salt it with common salt and a little saltpetre. When it has lain in the salt two or three days, mince it finely, and season with a tea-spoonful of pepper and four sage-leaves chopped small. IMix it well with the third of a pound of bread-crumbs. Put the mixture into the skins, tie the ends securely, and bake or boU the saveloys gently \mtil done enough.