RAB ( 694 ) BAB well a cabbiigo lettuce. Shrod it finely, and spread it at the bottom of a dish. Arrange the pieces of rabbit on this, and iutersporso with them the llesh of two anchovies cut into strips, a tea-spoonful of bruiscid capers, some chervil, pimpernel, and tarragon leaves finely shred, a little sliced beet-root, and a hard-boiled egg cut small. Place over these ingi-edients three or four lettuces cut into quarters, and ornament the salad with hard-boiled eggs, beet-root, &c. At the moment of serving the salad, pour over it a quarter of a pint of good mayomiaise sauce, or if preferred send oil, vinegar, and mustard to table separately. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. The pieces of rabbit to lie in the marinade for an hour or two. Rabbit Salad, Simple.—Take two or three thin slices of stale crumb of bread. Toast them on botli sides till brightly browned, let them cool, and divide them into neat squares. Lay on each one of these a slice of cold roast rabbit. Arrange them on a dish alternately, with small salad or a spoonful of washed and dried lettuce finely shred. Sprinkle over all two table-spoonfuls of boiled onion finely minced, two anchovies cut small, and half a tea-spoonful of shred parsley. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced beetroot, and pour mayonnaise sauce over it at the moment of serving. Rabbit, Sauces for.—Onion sauce, white sauce, white celery sauce, white mushroom sauce, parsley and butter made with milk in- stead of water, and liver sauce are all suitable sauces for boiled rabbit. For roasted rabbit, brown sauce served with currant jelly, brown mushroom sauce, poivrade sauce, and liver sauce are most usually served. Liver sauce for boiled rabbits is made as follows :—lilix a table-spoonful of flour and a little cold milk to a smooth paste. Stir this into a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and add a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Let this sauce boU gently for five or six minutes, stir "it all the time, and add a slice of fresh butter. Mince finely the liver of the rabbit which has been boiled for twenty minutes. Eub it through a wire sieve, and stir it into the sauce. Add pepper and salt and a spoonful or two of cream if liked, pour the sauce into the tureen, stir a small piece of butter into it, and when this is dissolved, serve immediately. To make liver sauce for roast rabbit:—Wash the liver, throw it into boiling water, and let it boil for twenty minutes, mince finely, and rub it smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Put it into a quarter of a pint of gravy, and add a tea-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a pinch of grated lemon- peel, a small pinch of powdered thyme, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut rolled in flour. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and serve very hot. Rabbit Sausages. —Skin, empty, and wasli a couple of fresh young rabbits. Cut off the heads, divide the rabbits into joints, and pick the meat from the bones. Bruise the latter, and put them with the heada into a saucepan with as mucli cold water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently until the gi-avy is very strong, sliuking the Siiuceijan occiisionally to keep tlio Ijones from burning. Mince the meat finely, and put it aside for a short time. Wasli th(i livers, first carefully removing the gall-ljags, put them in a stewpan with a slice of fresh butter, or if preferred a spoonful or two of water, and let them simmer gently until suHiciently done. Drain them, cut them up into small ]jiecos, and put them with the minced rabliit. Weigh the meat, and with each three pounds put one poimd of fat bacon coarsely chojjped, adding an ounce and a half of salt, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, two (iloves finely pounded, and a pinch of i)Owdered mace. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and moisten the meat with the gravy strained and seasoned like the rabbits. A quarter of a pint of gravy will be enough for two rabbits, and it should be used while still warm. Fill carefully-prepared skins, and the sausages will be ready for boiling or frying. This preparation is very good put into one large slan, boiled gently until done enough, and served cold. Rabbit Sausages made from Dressed Rabbit.—Pick the meat from the remains of boiled or roasted rabbit, and free it from skin and sinew. Mince finely, mix with it a third of its weight of fat bacon coarsely chopped, and add a spoonful or two of onions which have been boiled till tender in strong gravy. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, powdered cloves, and grated nutmeg, and bind it together with the yolk of an egg. Fill carefully-pre- pared skins, and the sausages will be ready for broiling, frying, &c. Rabbit, Scallops of.—Pick the meat from the remains of boiled or roasted rabbit. Mince it finely, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and add a little lemon-juice if liked. Dissolve a small slice of butter in a saucepan, and stir the mince in this over a gentle fire till it is quite hot. Butter some scallop-shells, and cover the inside of the shell with a layer of nicely-seasoned bread-crumbs, or mashed potatoes. Put in a large spoonful of the savoury mince, and sprinkle some more bread-crumbs on the surface. Lay three or four little pieces of butter on the top and head, and brown the mince in a hot oven, or before the fire. Arrange the shells on a neatly-folded napkin, and serve very hot. Time, eight or ten minutes to brown the mince. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, the contents of one shell for one person. Rabbit (Rare-bit), Scotch.—Take as many slices as will be required of good Stilton, Gloucester, or Cheddar cheese, and if the cheese is not very rich add a little fresh butter or salad- oil. Grate the cheese, and put it into a cheese- toaster with a spoonful of made mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and a small glassful of good porter or ale. Stir the mixture until the cheese is dissolved, serve it upon a dish undt^r which is a tin of boiling water, and serve very hot,