SUP ( 944 ) SUM persons heated with labour or by any Bevero oxorciso; and yet it is necessary to supply the vaste and exhaustion of perspiration in some way or other. When spirits or wine are added in small quantities to the water it may be used, 0V3I1 if cold, with little danger; but severe labour or oxorciso excites a danger of fever, and that fever is increased by spirits or fermented liquor of any kind. On this account, Dr. Rush, in one of his publications, recommends that labourers in the fields, particularly at har- vest-time, should allay their thirst by water con- taining a snail quantity of vinegar: about a tea-spoonful to half a pint of water, which would Jiave tho desired effect without stimu- lating or increasing the heat of the body; and he states that those labourers who have used this beverage have found themselves more refreshed and less exhausted at night than when they drank water with spirits. This is not a modern practice merely ; for the Romans used vinegar to mix with water for the drink of their soldiers." Summer Diet,—With change of weather all sensible people change their diet. In sum- mer fish should replace meat both at breakfast and luncheon, while fresh salads and well- cooked fruit should be taken instead of indi- gestible pastry and innutritions confections. Milk and water may be taken by children and young people up to eighteen years of age, or, for those who prefer it, the milk may be combined with some natural mineral water. No more powerful stimulant should be taken than claret or sherry by those who feel they must have something more than water, while they who are wise will adopt the most simjile form of diet, and avoid all unnatural ex- tremes. Summer Fruit Salad.—Take one or two kinds of freshly-gathered finely-flavoured fruit. Pick it, put it into a glass dish, and stir into it a dessert-spoonful of sherry, a dessert- spoonful of water, and three table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar to each pint of fruit. Let it remain in a cool place for an hour or two, and serve with cream instead of a tart. Summer Pudding. — Beat five table- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with a quarter of a pint of milk. Add gradually three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and boil the mixture, stirring it all the time, for five minutes. Pour it out, and let it become partially cool, then add two fresh eggs and half a tea-cupful of sugar. Beat the batter briskly for a few minutes, and stir in a tea-cupful of fresh summer fruit of any kind. Put the mixture into a buttered bowl, tie it securely in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly till done enough. Turn it out, and serve immediately. Send sweet sauce or pow- dered sugar to table with it. Time to boil, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Summer Pickle i^ee Pickle, Summer, for Present Use). Summer Vegetable Salad.—Take half a pound of raw articlioko bottoms, half a pound of fresb cucumber, and the heart of a firm fresh lettuce. Divide into tbin slices, the cucumber having of course been peeled befoie it was cut, and sprinkle a littlr salt over the vegetables. Cover tlie dish, and let it remain untouched for two hours. Drain oft^ the liquor, and add four table-spoonfuls of pickM rod cabbage, or six or eight rod I'/idislies cut up small. Pour some good salad-sauce over all, toss the vegetables lightly together, and serve. Half an ounce of mixed chervil-leaves mixed with the salud will improve its flavour. Superior Sauce for Flavouring Stews, &C.—Take one table-Hpoonl ul ol finely-grated horseradish, mix witli it a table- spoonful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of cayenne, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, a tea-spoonful of mustard-seed, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, a salt-spoonful of celery, half a dozen pickled walnuts, and an ounce of garlic. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and pour upon them a quart of ketchup, a pint of port, half a pint of soy, the strained juice of three lemons, and a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Bottle the mixture, cork closely, and store in a warm place. Shake the bottle occasionally and also before using the sauce. It may be used at the end of a week or two, but will improve with, age. Superlative Soup (Dr. Kitchiner's).— Take four pounds of the shin of beef, and cut it into six pieces. Fry a large onion cut small in dripping, add the pieces of meat, and shake the pan to keep them from burning. Dredge upon them gradually six ounces of flour, and stir all weU together for five minutes- Pour in gradually three quarts of boiling water. Let the liquor boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Add salt and pepper and a tea-spoonful of ground aUspice. Draw the pan to the side, and simmer its contents gently for three hours and a half. Take the meat out, and serve it on a dish separately, with di-essed vegetables. Serve the soup in a' tureen. Time, three hours and a half to simmer the liquor. Supper Dish, French {see French Supper Dish). Supper or Luncheon, Apples for.— Peel the apples, leaving an inch of the stalks. Put them in a saucepan, cover them with cold water, and let them simmer gently till they are tender throughout. Take them up before they are broken, put them on a dish, sprinkle pow- dered sugar thickly upon them, and serve hot or cold. Cream or milk may be eaten with them. Suppers.-The modern practice of dining late has all but put an end to the hot heavj- suppers which were once so much in vogue. Now-a-days supper partakes more of the nature of a light refreshment than of a solid meal, and though, when a large party has been given, substantial viands need to be provided, they are usually served cold. This aftords an excellent, opportunity for the display of good taste and ingenuity, and with these and a moderate share of bright glass and china, and snowy napcry. a supper-table may be laid out handsomely at a comparatively trifling cost. Nothing so n