( 933 ) STB STU Strawberry Salad—Take equal portions of strawberries and red and white cui-rants. Pick them, place them in layers, and pile them on a dish. Sprinkle powdered sugar over them, ^ind poxir thick cream upon them. The cream and sugar should not be poured on the fruit till the last moment. If liked, other fruits, such as gooseberries, cherries, raspberries, &c., may be introduced into the salad. Strawberry Solid. — Dissolve three quarters of an ounce of isinglass by boiling it in a quarter of a pint of water. Press a pint of strawberries through a sieve and add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a little sugar. Add three quarters of a pint of cream and the dissolved isinglass when cool. Mix thoroughly. Pour the solid into a damp earthenware mould, as metal would spoil its colour, and when it is stiff it will be ready for use. If fresh strawberries are not at hand, jam may be used instead, but it will need to be rubbed through a line sieve to keep out the seeds. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for .six or eight persons. Time, about an hour to prepare. Strawberry Vinegar.—This vinegar is excellent for flavouring sweet sauces, also a .spoonful or two put into a tumblerful of cold water forms a refreshing summer drink. Gather the fruit in dry weather, when it is fully ripe and finely flavoured. Let it be quite fresh. Pick and weigh it, and put it into stone jars or wide-mouthed glass bottles, and over each pound j)oiiT a quart of best white-w ine vinegar. Cover the jars closely, and let the strawberries infuse in the vinegar for three days. Drain it off, and put it upon fresh fruit. Let this stand three •days, and repeat the operation a third time. Drain off the Kquor closely, and let it run through a canvas bag dipped in vinegar. jMeasure it, and stir into it until almost dis- solved a pound of sugar broken up small for <>ach pint of vinegar. Put it over a clear fire in an enamelled (not a metal) saucepan, and let it boil gently for five minutes. Pour it out, let it stand twelve minutes, skim it thoroughly, and bottle for use. Time, ten days. Probable •cost. Is. 6d. per pint. Strawberry Water (a refreshing summer •drink).—Take half a pound of finely-flavoured strawberries. Bruise them well in a basin with a wooden spoon, and mix with them four table- spoonfuls of finely-powdered sugar and a quarter of a pint of cold water. Rub them through a fine sieve, ^nd filter what passes through the «ieve till it is clear and bright. "Wash the dregs in the sieve with a little cold water to prevent waste. Add the strained juice of half a lemon and a pint of cold water to the liquor, and put it in ice or in a cool place till wanted. Time, about an hour to prepare. Probable cost, 3d. per pint. Sufficient for about a quart of water. Strawberry Water Ice.—Pick a pound of ripe Btrawborrios, and bruise them well with half a pound of red currants. Pour upon them a pint of clarified sugar, and add two or three <irops of cochineal if liked. Rub the whole through a hair-sieve into a basin, and freeze in the usual way. Strawberry Wine.—A simple method of making strawberry wine is to add a little straw- berry-juice to good flavourless currant wine. To make it from fresh fruit, bruise three gallons of strawberries, and pour upon them three gallons of water. Let them infuse twenty-four hours. Strain the liquor through a canvas bag, and add eight pounds of lump sugar, two gallons of cider, one ovmce of powdered red tartar, and the thin rind of a fresh lemon. When putting the wine into the cask a little brandy may be added if liked. Stuffing.—Stuffing is but a homely name for forcemeat, for the preparation of which ' various recipes are given under their appro- ■ priate headings. In making forcemeat great care should be taken that the ingredients arc equally and smoothly mixed, that no one par- ticular herb or spice overpowers the fla- vour of the rest; and that the seasoning is suited to the dish it is intended to accompany Forcemeats should be of such a consistency that they can be cut through with a knife, yet they should neither be heavy nor dry. When the ' are made up into balls these should never be larger than a small nutmeg. When intended for soups or ragouts, they should be cooked before being added to the dish. They will need to be fried tUl brown for brown sauce, and boiled for three minutes for white sauce. Stuffing, Alexandre Dumas' .—Stuffing prepared in the following way was originally in- tended for turkey (to "avoid spending forty or fifty francs on truffles"), but it is equally suited to hare. Mince together veal, chicken, and partridge flesh, if these are to be had, in small and equal portions, and add four oimccs of sausage-meat. Boil from fifteen to twenty fine Lyons chestnuts till tender in salt and water. A stick of celery may be simmered with. them. When the chestnuts are done enough, crush them, and mix them with the mincemeat. I'ut a clove of garlic and a handful of fresh green parsley-leaves inside the hare, fill it with the stuffing, and sew up securely. Stuffing for Hare, Meg Dod's.— Grate the crumb of a stale penny loaf, and soak it in port or claret. Mix with it four ounces of beef suet chopped small, a tea-spoon- ful of finely-shred parsley, a small pinch of minced shallot, a tea-spooniul of grated lemon- rind, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and a little salt and cayenne. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with yolk of egg. Put the forcemeat into the hare, and sew it up closely. If the liver is in a sound state, it may be parboiled, chopped, and mixed with the forcemeat. In the original recipe it was recommended that a boned anchovy should be added to this preparation. This may be in- troduced or omitted, according to taste. Stuffings, Forcemeat, Dr. Kitchinei on.—Forcemeat is considered an indis])en8able accompaniment to most made dishes, and when composed with good taste gives additional spirit and reUsh to even that " Sovereign of Savouri- nesa"—turtle soup. It is also sent up in patties