C 1090 ) VIC VIC and thick, take tho sugar from tho firo, let it cool a few minutea, und stir into it, f^raduidly but briskly, whatovor liquid liuvouring in to bo used. Tho glaze is now ready for tho biscuits. Victoria Buns.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to cream; add two ounces of powdered white sugar, an ounce and a half of ground rice, an ounco and a half of currants, a small piece of candied peel thinly sliced, a pinch of salt, and a well-beaton egg. Boat the mixture between every addition, and add as much flour as will make the dough firm and smooth. Divide it into eight portions, roll these into balls, place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake thom immediately in a brisk oven. If left to stand they will become heavy. Time to bake the buns, about half an hour. Probable cost, buns, -|d. each. Victoria Cake.—Put a pound and a quarter of fresh butter into a bowl, and beat it to cream. Add six ounces of powdered sugar, six ounces of pounded sweet almonds, with two or three bitter ones, half an ounce of cinnamon powder, half a pound of dried cher- ries, a quarter of a pound of candied peel finely shred, a pound and a quarter of flour, a little salt, and four eggs. Beat the mixture quickly for a few minutes; then add gradually, beating the batter all the time, thi-ee-quarters of a pound of flour, eight eggs well beaten, and a large wine-glassful of brandy. Dissolve an ounce and a half of fresh German yeast in a spoonful of lukewarm water; make a hollow in the centre of the batter, pour in the yeast, and knead it thoroughly into the cake. Whip half a pint of cream to froth, and add this to the rest. Line a baking-tin with buttered paper, half fill it with the mixture, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place till it has risen to double the size, then bake immediately in a moderately-heated oven. "When the cake is lightly browned, and when a skewer pushed into it will come out clean and dry, it is dqne enough. If liked, this cake may be served as a pudding, with custard sauce. Probable cost, 68. Victoria Cake (another way).—Rub the rind of two fresh lemons -with sugar till the yeUow part is taken off, crush the lumps to powder, and add as much powdered sugar as will make up the quantity to half a poimd. Whisk the whites of three eggs to froth, stir in the sugar, and afterwards the beaten yolks of six eggs. Last of all, work in gradually and very thoroughly seven ounces of dried flour. Line a tin mould with buttered paper, pour in the batter, and bake the cake in a moderately- heated oven. When it is lightly brown, and when a skewer pushed into it wiU come out clean and dry, it is done enough. Probable cost. Is. Gd. Victoria Pudding.—Boil a little piece of stick vanilla in a pint of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain it upon six ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and add three table-spoonfuls of sugar, one table-spoonful of brandy, and three well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould thickly, flour it, and ornament taste- fully with dried cherries, slices of preserved citron, or stoned raisins. Pour in the pudding quite cold, put a plate upon it, and steam it over boiUng water. Let it stand two or three minutes, tum it upon a h<jt dish, and serve with Victoria sauce, or with molted red-cur- rant jelly poured round it. Time to steam the pudding, one hour and a qufiiler. Probable cost. Is. Suflicicnt for four or live persons. Victoria Pudding, Superior.—Shred finely half a pound of sound beef suet free from skin and fibre, put it into a bowl, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of finely- giated bread-crumbs, six ounces of dried flour, four oimces of apples (weighed after they have been pared, cored, and chojjped), four ounces of apricot jam, three ounces of finely-shred candied citron, three ounces of dried cherries, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and stir into them five well-beaten eggs, half a pint of cream or milk, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mixture into a buttered mould which it will quite fill, tie it in a floured cloth^ plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Let it stand three or four minutes, tum it upon a glass dish, and serve with brandy sauce. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Victoria Sandwiches, Savpury (for breakfast, luncheon, &c.).—Wash six or eight anchovies, cut oflE their heads and fins, take out the back-bones, and divide each fish in two, from the shoulder to the tail. Cut an equal number of thin slices of brown bread and butter; put between two slices alternate layers of hard- boiled eggs, mustard and cress cut small, and the fillets of the anchovies ; press the slices closely together, and with a sharp knife cut them into neat squares. Place them on a dish covered with a napkin, and garnish with parsley. If not wanted immediately, cover them vrith a napkin wrung out of cold water to keep them moist. Victoria Sandwiches, Sweet.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream. Work in with it half a pound of powdered white sugar, half a pound of dried flour, and a pinch of salt. Add these ingredients gradually, and beat the mixture well between every addition. Whisk four large fresh eggs, stir them into the cake, and beat again for some minutes. Butter a shallow baking-tin, pour the batter into it, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Let it get cold; spread a Httle good jam upon one half, place the other half upon it, press the pieces together, and sift powdered Avhitc sugar on the top. Cut the cake into long fingers with a sharp knife, pile these crosswise on a glass dish, and they will be ready for serving. Time to bake the cake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Suflicicnt for half a dozen persons. Victoria Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Beat the yolk of an egg with three table- spoonfuls of cream; boil a table-spoonfid of sugar to a svrup with a little water, stir mto it the egg, &c., and a dessert-spoonful of cunu^oa. Beat the sauce rapicUy over the fire till it begins to thicken; it is then ready for ser^^ng. It should look like rich cream. Time, a quarter