C 534 ) "PEP PER West Indies, where this dish is a groat favourite, it is so highly Boasouod that it is imivorsally known as "pepper pot." Time, about an hour after the fowl is put in. The probable cost varies with the ingredients. Suf- ficient for eight or nine persons. Pepper Pot, West Indian. —In country houses where much company is kept, a diffi- culty is often experienced in disposing of the remains of poultry or game, and thus avoiding waste. The foUomng dish may be recom- mended, as being palatable and convenient, and also a great favourite with those who have tried it. Procure a bottle of casaripo sauce. This sauce is sent from the West Indies. It is thick and dark in appearance, and is sold in quart bottles. Take whatever re- mains of meat or poultry you may have, cut them into convenient pieces, trim them neatly, put them into a pan, and cover them with the sauce. Make the whole hot over the fire, and take out as much as is required for immediate use. Put a further supply of game, &c., into the pot when there are any remains, remember- ing always to cover the additional meat with sauce, and to warm it each time it is used. The sauce will keep the meat quite good. Pepper, Purchase of.—Unless one con- sumes pepper in considerable quantities, little should be bought at a time. The strength of it, especially in a ground state, is constantly lessened by exposure to the air. Pepper Vinegar.—Take fifty fresh red English chillies, cut them in two, put them into a wide-necked bottle, and pour over them a pint of best vinegar. Let them remain for a fortnight, and shake the bottle occasional^. Strain, and bottle for use. Fresh vinegar may be put over the chillies three or four times, until the strength is exhausted. This vinegar is an agreeable addition to melted butter in making fish sauces, and is very useful for flavouring purposes. If genuine cayenne can be obtained, a quarter of an ounce put into a pint of vinegar will answer the same purpose. English chillies are at their best during September and October. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 3s. per hundred chiUies. Sufficient for a pint of vinegar. Pepper Watpr (for flavouring).—Strain the juice of a fresh lemon into a pint and a half of cold water. Slice an onion and pound it in a mortar, with twelve peppercorns, three cloves of garKc, a table-spoonful of currj' powder, and a. dessert-spoonful of salt. Put all into a sauce- pan, bring the liquid to the point of boiling, cover closely, and let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, then strainit through muslin. Put with it a small onion which has been chopped small and fried lightly in butter. Boil up once moro, and the pepper water is ready to be bottled. Cork closely, and store in a cool, dry place. In India, where this re- cipe is in groat repute, a ])ioce of tamarind is substituted for the lemon-juice. ProbaV^le cost, 2d. per pint. Pepper, White.—"V\'Tiite pepper is the product of uhr; same plant as black pepper. To manufacture it the black wrinkled coats of the Mjcdri arc removed by soaking and friction. They are then ground to powder. White pepper is by many preferred to black, on account of its superior appearance. It is deti- cient, however, in both strength and flavour. Like black pepper, white pepper is divided by wholesale dealers into three kinds or varie- ties. These are -Tellicherry pepper, which is of two kinds. Large or fine Tellichr-iTy ])epper is larger and whiter than any other description of white pepper, and fetches a higher price; small or coriander-like pepper is shriveUed. Common white pepper comes from Penang by Singapore; it is round, and not shrivelled ; its value depends on its size and whiteness. English bleached or white pepper.—When the two preceding sorts are scarce, brown Penang pepper is bleached. The yellowest and largest grains are chosen for this purpose, for neither an expensive nor small sort would pay. Pepper used to be subject to scandalous adulteration. Peppermint CordiaL—Take of white sugar and water in the proportion of 196 pounds of the former to fifteen gallons of the latter. Break the sugar into pieces, put it into a 120-gallon cask, and pour the water on it. Let it stand tiU the next day; then put a stick into the bunghole, and rummage until the sugar is dissolved. Next add two ounces of Enghsh oil of peppermint and forty gallons of proof spirit. Mix well, and add, further, enough water to make the whole up to 106 gallons. Let the cordial stand till fine. Peppermint Drops.—Rub the inside of a brass or block-tin saucepan with a little oil oi butter. Put into it half a pound of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and two or three table-spoonfuls of water or of strained lemon- juice. Place the saucepan on the fire, and let the syrup boil for ten minutes, then stir into it a dessert-spoonful of the essence of peppermint, or one hundred and twenty drops of the oil of peppermint. Let the mixture faU in drops upon white paper which has been well rubbed over with butter. Probable cost. Id. per ounce. Peppers, To Pickle Quickly.—Put a hundred peppers into a bowl, and pour over them a strong brine, made with a pint and a half of salt and as much water as will cover them. Put a board over them to keep them under the water, and let them lie for two days. Drain them, make a small incision in the side of each to let out the water, Avipe them with a soft cloth, and put them into a stone jar, Avith half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of cloves, and a small lump of alum. Pour cold vinegar over them, and tie a bladder securelj' over the jar. WTien pickled in this way, the peppers will preserve their colour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. for this quantity. Perch. — The porch is one of the com- monest of our frosh-water fish : at the same time it is one of the host. It is mot with in almost all the lakes and rivers of Groat Britain and Ireland, and throughout the whole of the tem- perate regions of the continent. Porch abound in deep, dark, sluggish rivers, and delight to lie about bridges, mill-pnnis, and in any doop and dark holes in the still parts of water, or