BAB ( 683 ) RAB through, but the sauce must not boil after the meat is put in a second time. Arrange the rabbit in a dish, pom- the sauce over it, and gjirnish with parsley and cut lemon. A glassful of light wine may be added to the sauce or not. Time altogether, two hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Rabbit (a la Tartars).—A French recipe. —Take a rabbit, and bone it. Then cut it into pieces, which marinade some hours in parsley, mushrooms, chives, and a clove of garlic, all chopped fine, together with pepper, salt, and oil; dip each piece of rabbit in bread-crumbs, broil, sprinkling the pieces with the marinade. Serve in a sauce d la Tartare {see Tartar Sauce). Probable cost, rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit and Eel, Matelote of .—Take a plump young rabbit, a fine eel, and three or four slices of bacon. Skin, empty, and wash the rabbit, cut it into small joints, and if the head is to be used, split it in halves, and take out the eyes. Skin and empty the eel, and di^ade it into short lengths. Fry the rabbit and eel in hot fat, together with the bacon cut into dice, till all are brightly browned and half cooked; talce them up, set them aside, and in the same fat fry half a dozen button onions or two moderate-sized onions sliced, and a dozen button mushrooms if these are to be had. When these also are browned, put them in a clean saucepan with the fried rabbit and eel, and mix as much flour with the hot fat as is required to make a smooth paste. Moisten this with stock or water to make gravy of the consistency of cream, put into this the fried meat, onions, and mushrooms, and add the liver and heart of the rabbit, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt if required. Simmer all gently together till the rabbit is tenaer. When done enough, pile the rabbit in the centre of a dish, arrange the pieces of eel and the bacon round it, and keep the meat hot. Strain the gra^'y, put a glassful of wine into it, boil it down till it is smooth and thick, and pour it it over the meat. Serve immediately. When mushrooms are not at hand, a tea-spoonful of anchovy and ji spoonful of bruised capers, or three or four gherkins chopped small, may be stirred into the sauce by way of a substitute. This recipe may be used for a rabbit alone, or an eel alone, as well as for the two together. Time, half an hour to simmer*the rabbit, &c. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound; eel, very variable. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Rabbit, Baked.—Skin, draw, and wash thoroughly a young rabbit, and, if convenient, let it lie in milk and water for an hour or two. Drain it, and cut it up into small neat joints convenient for serving. Pepper these lightly, place them in a single layer in a baking-tin, and cover each piece with a rasher of bacon. Put the tin into a modcratoly-heatcd oven, and bake the rabbit until it is done enough. Arrange the rabbit and bacon alter- nately in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the gravy in the tin over them. Serve very hot, with mashed potatoes as an accompaniment. Time to bake, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient, one rabbit for two or three persons. Rabbit, Baked (another way).—Take a plurap young rabbit. Skin, empty, and wash it, line the inside with slices of fat bacon, and fill it with good veal forcemeat. Sew it up securely, and truss it firmly, with the hind legs backward, the back legs forward, and the head in an upright position. Lay a slice of fat bacon over the back, and put the rabbit in a deep dripping-tin, then lay three or four lumps of butter or dripping upon it, and place it in a moderate oven. When it is almost done enough, dredge a little flour over it, baste it again, and set it in the oven to brown. Lift it upon a hot dish, remove the skewers, pour a spoonful or two of good brown gravy over it, and send some more to table in a tui-een. Garnish the dish with slices of fat bacon. If liked, red- currant jelly may accompany the baked rabbit. Time to bake, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour; less if the rabbit is small. Pro- bable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Rabbit, Baked, and Macaroni.—Cut a rabbit into joints, or truss it if preferred; butter it well, and lay it in a baking-dish on some slices of ham. Place it in a moderately- heated oven, and let it remain there, basting now and then with more butter. Take a quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni, break it in pieces about two inches in length, and throw these into a stewpan of boiling stock. Let the macaroni simmer tUl tender, then strain it; mix with it one ounce of white sugar, and two ounces of fresh butter, season to taste, and add to the rabbit a table-spoonful of brandy and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Place the macaroni in the dish with the rabbit, bake until the macaroni is of a pleasant brown colour, and send to table in the dish in which the rabbit was baked. Time, the rabbit must have been at least half an hour in the oven before the addition of the macaroni. Rabbit, Baked, with Rice.—Cut up a fat young rabbit into neat joints, and pepper these rather highly. Dissolve three or four ounces of bacon fat or good dripping in a sauce- pan, put in the pieces of rabbit, and let them steam over a gentle fire until they are lightly browned and half dressed. Take them up, drain theni, and put them aside. Wash half a pound of rice, and put it into a saucepan with a quart of nicely-flavoured stock and half a blade of mace. Let it simmer until it is tender and has absorbed the liquor, then let it cool, and stir in -with it a large slice of fresh butter and the yolks of four eggs. Butter a deep dish, lay the pieces of rabbit into it, pour over them a large spoonful of chutnee, and then spread the rice on the top. Lay the beaten yolks of two eggs upon the rice, and bake the preparation in a brisk oven. Serve very hot in the dish in which it was baked. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rabbit, Boiled.—This is the usual and one of the most acceptable ways of di-essing