TUR ( 1015 ) tiie turnip, if thoroughly washed, will flavour soup and sauco as Avell as the vegetable itself. Turnips ai-e in season from May till February. They may bo had all the year round, but in spring they are only useful for flavouring. Turnip and Potato Soup.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and fry in it two large onions sliced till they are brightly browned. Pour over them two quarts of stock made from bones or from the Liquor in which meat has been boiled, and add half a dozen sliced turnips, half a dozen mealy potatoes, and three or four crusts of bread, together with a bay- leaf and a few sticks of celery if liked. Sim- mer all gently together tiU the vegetables are quite soft, rub the soup through a fine sieve, and season with pepper and salt. Let it boil up once more, and serve very hot. Serve toasted sippets on a separate dish. This soup i is not likely to keep good more than a day or | two. Time, two hours and a half. Probable \ cost, 3d. per pint, exclusive of the stock. Suf- j ficient for ten or twelve persons. Turnip Broth.—This is made with about i a dozen turnips peeled and cut into slices, j Blanch them for a short time in water, and i drain them; put them with a knuckle of veal, a ■ small piece of beef, and the half of a hen into a stewpan; and pour some rich boiling broth over the whole. Let the whole stew for about two hours; then strain it through a double silk sieve, and use it with rice, vermicelli, &c. &c. Turnip-greens, To Boil {see Greens, Turnip, Boiled). Turnip Radishes, To Boil.—Radishes are generally eaten raw with salads, &c. The small white turnip radishes are, however, some- times boiled and served as a vegetable, and the ordinary long radishes, when young, may be tied in bunches, boiled till tender and served like asparagus on toast. They are good with j either boiled or roast meat. To boil turnip j radishes proceed as follows :—Take the radishes [ when young and freshly pulled. Wash them ; well, trim them neatly, leaving about an inch j of the stalks, and lay them in cold water for half an hour. Drain them, and throw them into plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Let them boil gently till tender. Drain them, and serve in a tureen with melted butter poured over them. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per bunch. Sufficient, one bunch for one or two persons. Turnip Soup.—Wash and pare half a dozen turnips, and let them lie in cold water for a quarter of an hour. Drain them, and cut them up small. Put them into a stewpan with four ounces of fresh butter and three ounces of lean ham cut into dice, and stir them about over a gentle fire for two or three minutes. Add two or three onions and one or two sticks of celery, and pour over them a pint of stock made from bones. Let them simmer gently till they are quite soft, dredge two handfuls of flour over them, and beat them briskly with a wooden spoon till they are quite smooth. Moisten gradually with two pints of stock, and stir th« soup over the fire till it boils. Rub it through a fine hair sieve, let it boil up again, add salt, pepper, and powdered mace, and half a pint of boiling cream, and it will bo ready for serving. If liked, a bay-loaf and two or three cloves may be stewed with the other ingredients, and the floui- may be omitted, and a little ground rice or arrowroot substituted for it. Send toasted sippets to table on a separate dish. Time, two hours and a half, exclusive of the stock. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Probable cost, 4d. per pint, exclusive of the stock. Turnip-Tops.—Turnip-tops are frequently used as greens. When freshly cut they are very good, and they have a slightly bitter taste which recommends them to many. Trim off the decayed leaves and stems, and wash the greens in several waters. Drain them, and throw them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Keep the sauce- pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly till they are quite tender. When done enough, put them into a colander, and squeeze the water gently from them. Turn them into a hot vege- table-dish, pepper them lightly, and spread a little butter on them; cut the surface across both ways with a knife, and serve. If any of these greens are left, they may be served up again after being finely chopped with butter and salt, and heated in a saucepan. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost —generally very cheap—Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for three or four persons. Turnip-Tops (see Cabbage, Turnip-Tops, and Greens). Turnips.—These are seldom served whole, but after being boiled are mashed before being sent to table. When stringy they must be passed through a coarse sieve. In order to mash them, press the water weU from them, add enough butter, salt, and pepper, with a little powdered white sugar, which greatly improves their flavour. A little flour mixed with the butter renders the turnips less watery when mashed. Turnips, Boiled.—Turnips should only be served whole when they are very young, and then they should be covered with white sauce. When they have reached any size they shoTild be mi,shed. Pare the turnips, and wadi them; if verj' young a little of the green top may be left on; if very large they should be divided into halves or even quarters. Throw them into slightly-salted water, and let them boil gently till tender. Drain, and serve them. Time to boil, old turnips, three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half; young turnips, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost' 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Sufficient for five or six persons. Turnips, Boiled and Served -with Sauce.—Boil the turnips as in the last recipe. Put them in a tureen, grate a little nutmeg over them, and cover with good melted butter. If preferred, omit the nutmeg, and stir a spoon- ful of freshly-mixed mustard into the sauce before pouring it over the vegetables. Turnips served in this way may bo sliced, cut into dice.