PEA PEC (631) pea8 which have been soaked in cold water all ^io^t. Boil gently until the peas are quite Boft, stir frequently to prevent burning, then add'a little salt and pepper, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a salt-spoonful of dried and powdered mint. Rub the soup through a sieve. If it is not sufficiently thick, stir into it three or four ounces of flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Boil half an hour longer, and serve very hot. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Peas Soup (another way).—Soak a quart of spht peas all nisfht. Wash them in two or three waters, and put them into a large stew- pan with half a dozen of the outer sticks of a head of celeiry, two large scraped carrots, two onions, two pounds weight of salt pork, and three quarts of water. Boil gently until the peas are tender, stirring frequently, then take out the pork, and rub the soup through a hair sieve, or a colander. Pour it back into the saucepan, let it boil, stirring occasionally, season with a little pepper and salt if neces- sary, and put in the pork which has been cut up into convenient-sized pieces. When the meat is hot the soup is ready for serving. Send toasted sippets, and either dried and powdered mint, or dried and powdered sage,, to table on separate dishes. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Peas Soup, Nutritive Properties of. —Peas soup, says the Inventory of the Food Collection at Bethnal Green Museum, is one of the most economical articles of diet. The following ingredients will make one gallon of palatable and nutritious soup:—Peas, sixteen ounces; meat, sixteen ounces; pot barley, one ounce; salt, an ounce and a half; onions, an ounce and a half; black pepper, forty grains; and water, four quarts. The peas should be soaked in three or four pints of the water (cold) for twelve hours. The meat shoxild be boiled in five pints of the water for three hours. The peas should then be put in a bag, and boiled with the meat one hour. The contents of the bag should then bo pressed into the soup, and the skins removed. The salt, pepper, onions, and pot barley should then be added, and the whole boiled for an hour. Water should be added from time to time, to make up a gallon. If the water had been previously used in cook- ing animal or vegetable food, the soup will be rendered more nutritious. One pint of this soup contains:— Water . Legumin or casein Starch Sugar Fat Gum Woody fibre Gelatin . Mineral matter Or, Water Flesh and force producers Force producers Mineral matter While this and other souj: 170 0-270 2-64 0103 8 are to be com- aiended, it should be recollected that they 17-0 0- 270 1- 0 0-16 0-257 0-40 0-41 0-147 0-103 cannot be made a substitute for solid food, such as bread and meat." Peas Soup, Quickly and Easily Made.—If there be at hand any stock, made from bones or any of the liquid in which meat has been boiled, it may be quickly converted into peas soup by stirring into it a small quantity of prepared peas, sold by aU grocers, in packets, at Id., 2d., 3d., and 6d. The powder should be mixed smoothly with a little cold liquid, and added gradually to the soup, which must afterwards boil for fuUy a quarter of an hour. Peas soup made with this powder is not so good as that made with di-ied peas. Suffi- cient, a dessert-spoonful of powder for a quart of soup; more, if it is liked very thick. Peas Soup, To Flavour.—A pinch of the following savoury powder will impart an agreeable flavour to dried peas soup:—Pound together in a mortar one ounce of dried sage, one ounce of dried mint, two drachms of celery- seed, half a drachm of cayenne, and a drachm of allspice. When the ingredients are reduced to powder, put them into a perfectly dry bottle, cork securely, and store until wanted for use. Peas, Split, Boiling of.—In boiling split peas, some samples, says Mr. Loudon, fall or moulder down freely into pulp, while others maintain their form. The foi-mer are called boilers, and this property of boiling depends on the soil; stiff land, or sandy land that has been limed or marled, or to which gypsum has been applied, produces peas that will not melt in boiling, no matter what the variety may be. The same effect is pro- duced on beans by the soil or manure, and indeed on all leguminous plants, this family having a great tendency to absorb gypsum from the soil. To counteract this fault in the boiling it is only necessary to throw into the water a small quantity of sub-carbonate of soda. Peas, Sugar.—This is a verj' sweet variety of pea, in wliich the tough internal film of the pod is wanting. These pods, when young, are boiled whole, and eaten in the same way as French beans. Peasant's Pudding.—Butter a moderate- sized pie-dish, and fill it with alternate layers of fruit and thin slices of bread or grated bread- crumbs. Add sugar according to the acidity of the fruit, and if it is not a juicy kind, pour half a cupful of cold water, or a little lemon-juice, over the pudding. Red and white currants, strawberries, raspberries, and cherries \vill not require any water to moisten them. The first layer in the dish should consist of bread, and the last of fruit. Bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. Probable cost uncertain, varying, of course, with the fruit. This is an inexpensive and wholesome pudding. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pectoral Broth (Invalid Cookery).— Out a chicken into joints and put it into a stewpan, with two pints of cold spring water, a fresh lettuce finely shred, three ounces of prepared Iceland moss, a dessert-spoonful of gum-arabic, a sprig of burrage, two or three sprigs of cliervil, and a small pinch of salt and