( 1039 ) VEA VEA •stituted for a portion of the veal. Time to simmer the gravy, about two hours. Probable cost, knuckle of veal, 6d. to 7d. per pound. Veal, Croquettes of.—Remove the skin, j?ristlc, and sinew from some cold dressed veal. Mince it finely, and with one pound of veal mince four ounces of ham, ton<?ue, or bacon. .Season the mixture with salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg, and put it in a saucepan; stir for a quarter of an hour over a gentle fire with <an ounce of butter rolled in flour, one table- spoonful of thick cream, and one table-spoonful of very strong stock made from the bones and trimmings of the veal. Turn the preparation upon a dish, and spread it to a smooth layer about an inch thick. Let it get quite cold and stifl:, then form it to the shape of small balls or corks. Egg and b)-ead-crumb the croquettes, and leave them in a cool place for an hour; then egg and bread-crumb them again. Put them into a wire fnang-basket, plunge them into boiling fat, and let them remain until they are brightly browned aU over. Drain them thoroughly, serve on a hot napkin, and garnish ^dth parsley. Veal Curry, Forcemeat Balls for. —If Uked, a few forcemeat balls may be put into the curry. To make them, boil an egg hard, pound the yoke in a mortar, mix with it some finely-grated bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, and a seasoning of curry powder or paste. Hub a small slice of fresh butter into the mix- tui-e, form it into balls the size of small marbles. Throw them into fast-boiling water for a couple of minutes, and they wiU be ready for use. Veal Curry Made with Cold Dressed Veal.—Take about two pounds of cold dressed veal, and cut it into neat pieces about a quarter of an inch thick. Slice four onions and one apple, and fry them in fat; turning them about tiU they are soft. Rub them through a sieve, and mix with the pulp a table-spoonful of curry paste or curry powder, a desseit-spoonful of ground rice, a pinch of salt, and a little stock or water. Boil the sauce till it is smooth, put in the pieces of veal, draw the pan back and simmer the meat gently in the sauce for about halt" an hour. Dish the curry neatly, and send rice boiled for curry to table on a separate dish. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal Curry Made with Fresh Meat. —Veal may be curried whether it is cooked or not. The fresh meat is, of course, to be pre- ferred, though the other is very good. To curry fresh veal, take about two pounds of veal from the breast or cutlets from the neck. Cut it into neat pieces convenient for serving, rub these over with curry powder, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Take them up, put them into a saucepan with a pint of stock, and simmer them gently till tender. Slice a large onion, and mince an apple finely. Fry these in the fat in which the veal was fried till they are quite soft. Rub them patiently through a sieve, then mix with the pulp a table- spoonful of Captain White's curry paste, a dossnrt-spoonfiil of ground ric(!, a ])inch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of finely-minccd lemon-rind. Add gradually the stock in which the veal has simmered, let the sauce boil up, put the cutlets in again, and simmer all together over a gentle fire for half an hour. Place the meat on a dish, pour the sauce over, and send rice boiled for curry to table on a separate dish. If liked, a little lemon-juice may be used instead of the sour apple, and milk may be substituted for the veal stock. Some cooks put a clove of garlic into the curry, but this is a matter of taste. Time to simmer the veal, three-quarters of an horn- in the stock and haK an hour in tho gravy. Probable cost, veal, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Veal, Cushion of, Braised (superior), The cushion of veal, or the noix, as it is called in French cookery-books, is simply that part of the leg which is covered by the udder. It should be separated from the under part of the fillet with a sharp knife, and the udder should be left whole, closely adhering to the cushion in its original position. The sinewy parts may be cut away. Take the cushion thus prepared, and lard the fleshy portion evenly and neatly with strips of fat bacon. Butter a braising- pan, and cover the bottom with a layer of sliced vegetables (onions, carrots, celery, and herbs), put in the larded veal and any bones and trimmings of meat that may be at hand, pour in as much stock as will just touch the surface of the veal, and braise it very gently over a slow fire. Butter a round of paper to tit the stewpan, lay this over the meat, put the lid over all. Every now and then the paper must be lifted and the meat basted with the gravy. Stew very gently indeed till the veal is tender. Remove the lid and the paper, and put the stewpan into the oven to brown. Still baste it occasionally. The gravy should now be considerably reduced, and very thick. If it is, put the meat on a dish, and strain the gravj' over it. If it is not, boil it quickly in a sauce- pan with the lid off until it becomes so. The fat must of course be removed from it. Garnish the dish with a mixture of dressed vegetables, and send sorrel to table with it. The sorrel may be prepared as follows: Wash and pick the stalks from three pounds of fresh sorrel. Boil for fifteen minutes in a quart of water salted, then drain, and chop small. Melt an ounce and a half of butter, mix with it one ounce of flour. When smooth add a gill of broth and the sorrel. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, add another gill of broth, and stir again for twenty minutes. Mix three eggs with half a giU of milk, pour into the sorrel, and stir ovar the fire for five minutes. If liked, the veal can be laid upon the sorrel in the dish. Endive, spinach, or mushrooms, may be served with the diflh. Time to braise the veal, about thi-ee hours. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Veal, Cushion of, Braised (another w^y).—Prepare the veal as in the last recipe, then, instead of larding it, make deep incisions in the fleshy portion of it, and fiU these alternately with pieces of truffle or tongue. Cover the cushion with thin slices of fat bacon, and braise the veal according to the instructions already given. Serve with rich white sauce. Time to braise the veal, about three hours. Probable