SAI. SAI. ( 806 ) of variety, the contro of tho circle may bo filled with oysters, prawns, or shrimps, mixed in Dutch sauce, with a further quantity of sauce in a tureen. Fried fillets of salmon are frequently served without sauce, and with tho juice of a lemon strained over them. Time to fry, ten to fifteen minutes, according to tho thickness of tho fish. Probable cost, salmon, when plentiful, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon. Fillets of, Stewed.—Trim a pound of salmon into neat fillets. Dry those, dip them in flour, partially fry them, and put them on a sieve to drain. Dissolve three ounces of butter in a saucepan. Mix smoothly with this a table-spoonful of floui-, and add a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea- spoonful of chopped fennel, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the mixtui-e over the fire for four or five minutes, add a glassful of sherry, and put into the sauce the half-fried fillets. Let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Lift the fish out with a slice, and place it on a hot dish. Let the sauce cool for two minutes, then stir into it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, then whisk it over the fire for a minute till it thickens, and pour it over the fish. Garnish the dish with fried sippets. Time, altogether, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. SuflS-cient for three or four per- sons. Salmon, Fillets of, with Potatoes. —Split and tiim a pound or more of salmon into neat fillets, egg and bread-crumb these, and fry in hot fat till they are done enough. Drain them on a sieve before the fire. Slice some potatoes thinly; blanch them in boiling water, drain and fry them in hot fat tiU they are soft without being browned. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a dish, put the fried potatoes in the centre, and send lobster sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the fillets, eight to fifteen minutes, according to thickness. Salmon Forcemeat for Garnishing, &C.—Lift the fiesh from the back bone of a dressed salmon, and take half a pound of it, free from skin and bone; tear it into flakes, and rub it through a sieve. Put the pulp into a mortar, and pound it with five ounces of butter and five ounces of panada, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a raw egg and a little rich white sauce. Make the forcemeat into cakes, and poach one of these ia boiling water to ascertain whether or not it is of the proper consistency. If too stiff, add a little more sauce or cream. Keep the forcemeat in a cool place till wanted. Salmon, Freshness of.—"Thefreshness of the salmon," says Careme, " may be known by the redness of the gills and brilliancy of the eye, which is of a clear red and transparent. The flesh should be firm, its shape short and round, which constitutes it well made, fat, and of a good quality ; the head short and pointed; the back of a dark blue tint, and covered with red spots; tho belly like silver; small scales compactly placed cover its whole surface, and, when the fish is fresh, are very brilliant, but if not, become dull and clouded-" Salmon Fried in Slices.—Cut four or five thin slices of salmon, cleanse and dry them well, then season, tiour, and dip thorn in egg beaten up and bread-crumbs, Plungo them into hot frying fat. Fry for ten minutes or so; when of a nice colour, drain tho shces, and sprinkle salt over them. Dish on a folded napkin, and send them to table surrounded with halves of lemon. Salmon Fritters.—Take the remains of dressed kippered salmon. Remove tho skin and bone, and tear tho flesh into small flakes. Mix with these an equal quantity of potatoes mashed with plenty of cream. Bind the mix- ture with yolk of egg, make it into small cakes or fritters, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and serve on a hot dish: garnish with hard-boiled eggs minced and placed round the dish in small mounds, white and yeUow alternately. Send mustard sauce to table in a tureen. Time, five or six minutes to fry the fritters. Salmon Gwilts, or Salmon Peel.— These are the small salmon which run from about five or six to ten pounds. They are very good, and make handsome dishes sent to table crooked in the form of the letter S. Salmon, Herrings, Sprats, Mack- erel, &C. &C., Pickled (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—Cut the fish into pieces of a suitable size, do not take off the scales; then make a brine strong enough to bear an egg, in which boil the fish; it must be boiled in only just liquor enough to cover it, and do not overboil it. When the fish is boiled, lay it slantingly to drain off aU the liquor; when cold, pack it close in the kits, and fill them up with equal parts of the liquor the salmon was boiled in (having first well skimmed it) and the best vinegar; let them rest for a day, fill up again, striking the sides of the kit with a cooper's adze until the kit wiU receive no more; then head them down as close as possible. This is in the finest condition when fresh. Salmon is most plentiful about midsummer; the season for it is from February to September. Some sprigs of fresh-gathered young fennel are the accompaniments. The three indispensable marks of the goodness of pickled salmon are —1st, the brightness of the scales, and their sticking fast to the skin; 2ndly, the firmness of the flesh; and, 3rdly, its fine pale red-rose colour—without these it is not fit to eat, and was either stale before it was pickled, or has been kept too long after. The above was given us as the actual practice of those who pickle it for the London market. Pickled salmon warmed by steam, or in its pickle liquor, is a favourite dish at Newcastle. Salmon, How to Cook.—As soon as a salmon is killed it ought to be crimped, by making incisions between the head and the tail, two inches wide and one inch deep. It should then be placed in cold water—well- water if possible—for one hour, and laid in a fish-kettle with as much cold water as will cover it, together with a quarter of a pound of salt and as much vinegar as will make the I water slightly acid. As soon as tho water la