POR POB ( 615 ) it properly is to let the water boil fast before putting in the oatmeal. Time, a quarter of an hour from the time the water boils. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one person. Porridge, Oatmeal (nnother way).—"See Oatmeal Porridge. Porridge, Onion {see Onion Porridge). Porridge, Peas {see Peas Porridge). Porridge, Plum {see Plum Porridge or Broth). Portable Soup.—Take five pounds of the shin of beef and three pounds of the knuckle of veal. Cut the meat into small pieces. Take out the marrow from the bones, and break them up. Put them into a stewpan with two gallons of cold water; bring this gradually to the boil, skim carefully, and add half a cupful of cold water two or three times to assist the scum in rising. Draw the soup to the side of the fire, and let it°simmer gently but continuously for eight or ten hours. Strain through a hair sieve, and put it aside imtil the following day. Kemove the cake of fat from the top, and pour off the soup carefully, leaving behind the settlings which are at the bottom of the pan. Put it into a saucepan with a dozen peppercorns and a tea-spoonful of salt; leave the pan uncovered, and let it boil quickly until the liquid begins to thicken. Pour it at once into a clean dry jar, place this in a saucepan over a gentle fire, and let it boU until it feels quite ropy and thick. Watch it carefully that it does not bum. Take a little out in a spoon, and if it jellies it is done enough. Pour it at once into small jolly- pots, and when it is cold turn the shapes out and put them on flannel in a warm place to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. If it is wished that the soup should be flavoured, sweet herbs, vegetables, and spices can be stewed with the meat, but usually it is more convenient that these should be omitted: the soup can then be used for any purpose. ^Tien it is wanted it is only necessary to dissolve one or two of the cakes in boiling water, and make the soup of any strength or any flavour that is reqmred. This portable soup, which was formerly very valuable for ordinary household purposes, and also for the use of those who were obliged to take their provisions with them on long journeys, is now almost entirely superseded by Liebig's Ex- tract of Meat. Time, two days to make; eight or nine days to dry. Porter.—A kind of malt liquor, which dif- fers from ale and pale beer in its being made with high-dried malt. The origin of porter is highly curious. It is thus stated by Malone : —"Before the year 1730 the malt liquors in general use in London wore ale, beer, and two- penny, and it was customary for the drinkers of malt liquor to call for a pint or a tankard of half-and-half—that is, half of ale and haK of boer, or half of beer and half of twopenny. In course of time it also became the practice to call for a pint or tankard of three threads, moan- ing a third of ale, of boor, and of twopenny; and thus the publicans had the trouble to go to three casks, and turn three cocks, for a pint of liquor. To avoid this inconvenience and waste, a brewer of the name of Harwood conceived the idea of making a liquor which should partake of the united flavours of ale, beer, and two- penny. Ho did so, and succeeded, calling it entire, or entire butt; and as it was a very hearty and nourishing liquor, it was very suit- able for porters, or other working people ; hence it obtained the name of porter." It would hardly be possible to ascertain what was the precise quality of the porter of that time, but it was very likely different in some respects from the beverage of the same name made at present, in consequence of changes in the in- gredients and the mode of manufacture, as well as in the taste of the public, and alto from enactments which have restricted the ingre- dients witljin narrower limits than those to which they were formerly confined. On the subject of porter we gain some interesting particulars from Dr. Hassall's "Pood and its Adulterations." Porter should be brewed of malt and hops alone, and the colour and flavour should be due to these alone. The colour of all malt liquor depends upon the .degree of heat to which the malt has been subjected in the kiln, and upon the amount of ripeness attained by the hops before being stripped from the poles. Thus for pale bitter ale one must prevent the husk of the malt from charring in the least, and maintain the original straw colour of the barley ; and in the selection of the hops care must be taken that they be picked as soon as sufficiently ripe to keep, and that no single brown or withered leaf be suffered to remain. In the case of the malt and hops required for porter the reverse of all this is the case. " The malt should be briskly dried until the flower of the grain is of a light brown colour, and crushes with a crisp friability between the teeth; the hops, also, should have hung in the autumn sun till they have attained a rich golden hue, and the seeds are perfectly developed. With all attention to these requirements, however, the beer brewed would still be far from the necessary colour and flavour, and to attain these the maltster is compelled to prepare malt in a peculiar manner. It must be remembered, nevertheless, that the strength of the porter is due almost entirely to the pale malt, as the other kinds have their saccharine properties so dried up and burnt as to render them nearly useless, except for colour and flavour. " In addition to these distinctive properties of porter, there is one other of still greater importance, the peculiarity of the fei'menta- tion. Up to the commencement of this last stage of the process of brewing, the manu- facture of porter is conducted in exactly the same manner as that of ale, with the addi- tion of the different flavouring malts befoi-e mentioned ; but during the fermentation the great difference is effected, as all the sugar is converted into spirit, excepting only such por- tion as is required to preserve the beer from the acetous fermentation, which is less than in ale, by reason of the Lirger amount of hops used in proportion to the strength of the work. Ordinarj^ ale is more liable to damage tho stomach by reason of its gTcator sweetness, while porter is more heady in proportion to its