SWE SWE ( ^'^7 ) ot these upon cold boiled fat bacon which has been cut into thin slices of a size that will j ust envelop the mince. Set these on a dish in a cool place tiU wanted. Dip them separately into frying batter, and fry them in hot fat till they cU'e crisp and lightly browned. Drain them on a wire sieve covered with paper, pile them on a napkin, then garnish with fried parsley, and serve immediately. Time to fry the kromeskies, three or four minutes. Sweetbreads. — Sweetbreads should be chosen as fresh as possible, as they very quickly spoil. There are two sorts—heart sweetbreads and throat sweetbreads. The heart sweet- breads are the best, and also the most expensive. In whatever way sweetbreads are dressed, they should first be soaked in lukewarm water for a couple of hours. They should then be put into boiling water and simmered gently for five or ten minutes, according to size, and when taken up they should be laid in cold water. Sweetbreads vary considerably in price, accord- ing to the time of the year. They are quite as frequently employed as ingredients in sundry made dishes, such as vol-au-vents, ragouts, &c., as served alone, and as they do not possess a very decided natural flavour they need to be accompanied by a highly-seasoned sauce, or they will taste rather insipid. They are in full season from May to August. Sweetbreads {k la Dauphine). — Take two perfectly fresh sweetbreads. Let them soak well in water for two hours, changing the water occasionally. Put them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until they are firm without being hard. Put them in cold water for a few minutes, dry them, and lard them evenly with thin strips of fat bacon. Take a small stewpan which has belonging to it a lid to hold live embers. Butter the in- side, and put into it a large carrot sliced and a moderate-sized onion. Lay one or two slices of bacon on the vegetables, then put in the sweetbreads, together with half a pint of strong brown gravy. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and stew with a gentle fire under them and plenty of heat on the top. Baste frequently with the gravy until the sweetbreads are lightly browned. Add more gravy as it is necessary. Trim the sweetbreads neatly, put them on a dish with the bacon under them, strain the gravy upon them, and send dressed sorrel or endive or tomato sauce to table with them. Time to stew the sweetbreads, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 5a. each. SuSicient for a small dish. Sweetbreads (a la Maitre d' H8tel).— Soak, blanch, cool, and trim the sweetbreads in the usual way. Lay them in a saucepan, and barely cover them with good veal gravj. TiOt them stew gently until done enough. Lay them on a hot dish, and have the sauce ready prepared to pour over them. This sauce may be made as follows :—Take half a pint of good melted butter. Let it simmer a few minutes, and skim it well, then stir into it a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, the strained juice of a small lemon, and a little salt and cayenne. Take the sauce from the fire, let it cool a minute, stir into it until dissolved a small piece of fresh butter, and it will be ready for use. Time to simmer the sweetbread, three-quarters of an hour. SuflBcient, a fine large sweetbread for two persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Ss. Sweetbreads and Palates, Pie of.— Take an equal number of sweetbreads and palates, and prepare them both in the usual way {see Sweetbreads and Ox Palates). Let them stew till tender in good brown gravy, and lay them in a dish. Let the sauce cool a little, stir into it the well-pounded yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pour it upon the meat. Cover the dish with good pastry, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the pastry is done enough the pie will be ready for serving. Sweetbreads and Palates Stewed.— Prepare both palates and sweetbreads in the usual way. Cut them into moderate - sized pieces, dredge flour upon them, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Put them into a saucepan, and pour upon them as much of the liquor in which they are stewed as will barely cover them. Thicken the sauce with brown thickening, season with pepper, salt, grated lemon-rind and nutmeg, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the meat in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. If liked, a dessert-spoonful of vinegar or strained lemon- juice may be added at the last moment. Time to stew, about half an hour. Sweetbreads (au Gratin). Second dress- ing.—Take the remains of sweetbreads which have been stewed in white or brown sauce. Put them in a pie-dish, pour the cold sauce ovei- them, and cover the surface with finely-grated bread-crumbs. Lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top, and put the dish in a bi-isk oven. When it is hot throughout it is done enough. If the top is not brightly browned, a salamander or red-hot shovel may be held over it to make it so. Sweetbreads, Baked.—Soak the sweet- breads well in water for two hours, and change the water once or twice during the time. Throw them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently for five minutes or more, till they are firm and round, but not hard. Take them up, drain them, and throw them into cold water to cool. Brush them over in every part with beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, sprinkle clarified butter upon them, and bread-crumb them again. Put them in a baking-tin with about two ounces of butter, and bake in a weU-heated oven; baste them till they are done enough and brightly browned. Take as many slices of hot toast as there are sweetbreads. Put them in a dish, lay the sweetbreads upon them, pour brown gravy round, but not over them, and serve immediately. Time to bake from half to three-quarters of an hour, accord- ing to size. Probable cost of sweetbreads. Is. 6d. to 6s. each. Sweetbreads, Broiled.—Take moderate I sized sweetbreads and prepare them in the usual way. Stew them in good stock till they I are done enough. Then drain them, and presf 1 them between two dishes till cold. Split them