1171 APPENDIX. before the lid is placed on, and the same lid then fits on b. There is a small tube connecting B with w, so that the steam rises into B, into which vegetables may be placed, that are thus cooked by steam during the same time that the meat is being cooked in its 0"vvn vapour in the chamber A. For ti-avellers camping out there is probably no invention in the world in relation to cooking so useful as Captain Warren's cooking pot. A few bricks may be collected and ranged round with spaces between, filled with a little coke or coal, and the pot placed on the top. All that is necessary is to keep in the fire, and the meat and vegetables will, after a time, be as well cooked, and taste as savoury, though the fire has been stiiTed by a sol- dier's bayonet, as if served up in the most luxurious Parisian cafe. When the pot is not in use, first let it be thoroughly cleansed, and then put by ia separate pieces, and not all fitted together. Of course, quite new pots require washing and boiling to get rid of that tia flavour peculiar to all new tin vessels. Whisk.—There are several kinds of egg whisks; the one generally used costs 6d. or 8d, Our grandmothers dispensed with an egg whisk altogether, and used either a knife or a fork. Whatever whisk is used, the white of eggs will never froth properly unless the bowl into which they are broken is quite cold, and unless they are perfectly free from the least speck of yolk. It is best to whisk them in a cold place. Wire Frying Basket.—This is a basket made of wire to fit inside a frying pan; it is used to fry parsley, herbs, and various vegetables, as well as patties, croquettes, rissoles, and preparations of a similar nature. The articles to be fried should be put into the basket, and this should be plunged quickly into hot fat, and withdrawn when they are done enough. They will, of course, need to be well drained. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. An ingenious person could make a basket of twisted wire which would answer the required purpose. Wire Stand.—Wlien meat is to be baked in the oven it should be placed on a wire stand in the baking-tin. This will keep it from having the sodden taste which it would certainly get if it were laid flat in the tin. If liked, potatoes or a pudding can be baked under the meat. Probable cost, Gel. CAPTAIN AYAKKEN S COOKING POT. LISTS OF KITCHEN UTENSILS. The following lists are given for the purpose of assisting those who are about to furnish their kitchen in selecting the necessary articles. With kitchen utensils, as with everything else, the purchaser must first consider the extent of his resources; and it is frequently the case that articles must be dispensed with which every one acknowledges it is desirable to possess. The lists are made gut. for a large, a medium, and a, small s^t of kitchen utensils. There