HlC BIC Ih ti y jiun over the top. This is a cheap and an orniiinental dish. Rice, Gatoau of (rice cake).—Prepare the; rice as directed in the recipe, " Kice, Casse- role of," then take some good cream, which first boil to ascertain that it will not curdle; the quantity must be proportionate to the size of the 'mould you intend to use. For a quarter of a pound of rice take a quart of cream, which, however, is not always sufficient; this depends on the rice swelling more or less; if Tiocessiiry, add a little milk to it. When the cream has boiled, take the peel of a lemon, which infuse in the cream for a quarter of an hour; take the peel out before you poiir in the rice, which lay on a very slow fire till it bursts or swells; when well swollen, add a little salt and some sugar, according to your own palate ; the sugar, however, must predominate, the salt being only intended to remedy the insipid taste that is inseparable from sweet entremets. Sugar must entirely predominate in articles for a des- sert, but in entremets it is to be used moderately. "When the rice is done enough, and properly seasoned, break eight eggs, and mix the yolks with the lice; next beat the whites, which pour gently into the preparation; put also a good bit of butter ; then clarifj'^ about a quarter of a jjound of butter, and when it is completely melted pour it into the mould; turn the mould round that the butter may be spread equally on all sides, then turn it upside down for a moment; then put crumbs of bread into the mould, and contrive to have them likewise spread equally all over it; now dip a small j)iece of bread into the butter, sprinkle some • larified butter all round the inside of the mould, ynd put some moie crumbs of bi'ead. Pour the rice into the mould, and put it into the oven, but mind that it must not be tooliot. In an hour the cake will be baked enough. Turn it upside down in the dish, and send to table. You may sometimes put with it preserved (jherries, raisins, currants, &c. Rice Gratine (M. Ude's recipe).—Take two ounces of rice, which wash and pick, &c. Then let it swell in hot milk—as cream, when used for entremets of this sort, would turn to butter. When the rice is well done, pound half a dozen sweet almonds and the same quan- tity of bitter ones; when you have made them into a paste, rub them through a tamis, and mix them with the rice, a little sugar, and a very little salt. Then put the rice into a silver pan or porringer, or silver casserole, and leave it to gratin on a slow fire for three-quarters of an hour or more. Instead of using the lid, only cover the pan with a sheet of paper, to keep out the dust and the steam. Serve hot. If you put a cover to it, the steam will prevent its being gratined. Glaze it with pounded sugar by means of the salamander. If it is properly gratined it is a very good dish for family use. Rice, Ground (see Ground Rice, various recipes, also Rice Flour). . Rice, Ground, and Cranberry Jelly >{»e>! Craiiborry and Ground Rice Jelly). Rice, Ground, Soufflee of.—Mix aii ounce and a half of ground rice with an ounce of butter, an ounce of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a gill of milk. Stir over the tire until w(dl cooked. Cool, add the yolks of three and the whisked whites of four eggs. Steam as usual. {See Soufflees.) Rice Gruel (Invalid Cookery).—Take a spoonful of ground rice, and with it thicken a pint of milk or water. Mix it in the same way as oatmeal gruel; boil with a bit of dried orange-peel or lemon-peel and a bit of cin- namon. Boil for about ten minutes, sweeten with loaf-sugar, and add two glassfuls of port or one of brandy, as may be required. This is a good gruel for bowel complaints, but arrow- root is better. Rice in a Mould.—Wash and diain a large cupful of the best Carolina rice. Put it into a saucepan with a piece of cinnamon, a bay- leaf, or the rind of half a lemon, and pour over it a cupful of cold water. Let it boil, then add two cupfuls of thin cream or good milk, and let the rice simmer gently until it is quite soft. Take out the flavouring ingredients, sweeten the rice, and beat well for three or four minutes. Press it into a damp mould, and let it remain untU cold and stiff. Turn it out, garnish with preserved fruit or jelly of any kind, and pour a little thin custard round it. It is an excellent plan to put the rice, milk, &c., into an earthenware jar, to put this into a pan of boiling water, and steam until done enough. When prepared in this way the rice is less likely to buni and to become discoloured than when boiled in the saucepan, but caie must be taken to keep a plentiful supply of boiling water lound it. It take longer to steam than to boil it. Instead of putting the rice into a plain mould, it may be pressed into a cj'lindrical mould, and the centre may be filled with custard; or it may be made into several little moulds, a little jam may be placed upon each, and custard poured round. The rice is excellent without custard. Probable cost of rice, only when made with milk, 7d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Time, one hoiu- and a half to two hours. Rice, Indian Mode of Boiling.— Wash a pound of rice, pick out the discoloured grains, and soak it for a quarter of an hour" Drain, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiling water as will thoroughly cover it. Cover the saucepan, let the rice boil for six minutes, add a quarter of a pint of milk, and boil two minutes longer. Strain the rice, and return it to the saucepan to dry. Pour over it half an ounce of butter dissolved in a spoonful of the water in which the rice was boiled. In five minutes it will be ready for 8er^•ing. .1 n the East Indies and China the water in which rice is boiled is called congy-wilter, and is prescribed by medical men there as nourishing food for sick persons. It is, in fact, rice gruel. Time, about three-quarters of an hour. Rice Jelly.—Take a quarter of a pound of rice and half a pound of loaf sugar : boil these ingredients in a quart of water, and when they become a gelatinous mass strain off the joUy.