SMA 8B.A ( 882 ) Skate with Caper Sauce.—Take two or tliri'o piouc'8 of wliiti^ akiito. lioll tlium up, and tie tlioiu with sti ing; then put them into faat-boiliiiy; water with salt and a little viuegar, and boil them gently until done enough. i<"ive niinutea before they are done put in the hver, and boil it with them. Take up tlie liah, drain it, anil put it on a hot diah. Make throe- quartera of a pint of good melted butter in a saucepan; stir into it while boihng two table- spoonfuls of bruised capers, pour the sauce over the tiah, and aerve hot. Time to boil the tish, twenty minutea. Probable coat, 4d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Skate, with Caper Sauce (another way).—Boil the skate in a vessel with water, viiiegar, salt, pepper, a sliced onion, parsley, green onions, bay-leaves, and tliyme. Wlien done, pick it neatly, and remove it into another clean vessel; pour over it some of the liquor in which it has been boiling, then drain it, and send it up to table, either entire or in pieces, with caper sauce in a tureen, or poured over the fish if preferi-ed. Skate .with Liver Sauce.—Boil the skate, as in recipe Skate with Black Butter Sauce. Skim it, serve on a hot dish with- out a napkin, and pour over it a sauce pre- pared as follows:—Boil the liver of the skate for five minutes, drain it, and bruise it in a mortar. Moisten with a little of the liquor, and rub it tlu'ough a sieve. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan over a brisk fire, and stir into it three or four mushrooms chopped small, a small bunch of parsley picked and finely shred, and a clove of garlic minced (the latter may be omitted, and a shallot or a small onion may be substituted for it). Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over these ingredients, and add the prepared liver, the flesh of an an- chovy, a table-spoonful of bruised capers, and half a pint of stock made from bones. Stir the sauce over the fire for a few minutes, add a little more thickening if necessary, and pour it upon the fish. Time altogether, three-quar- ters of an hour. Skirret. — This is a perennial plant, a native of China, known in this country since 1548. The root is composed of fleshy tubers about the size of the little finger, and joined together at the crown or head. They used to be much esteemed in cookery. In the northern districts of Scotland the plant is cul- tivated under the name of "crummock." The tubers, when boiled, are served with butter. They were declared by Worlidge,in 1682, to be " the sweetest, whitest, and most pleasant of roots." Skirrets come the nearest to parsnips of any of the esculent roots, both for flavour and nutritive quality. They are rather sweeter than the parsnip, and therefore to some few palates are not altogether so agreeable. Skirts, Beef, To Stew with Kidneys. —An ox kidney, or a pig'a kidneys, may be used for this diah. Take equal weights of kidney and beef skirts. Cut the kidneys into slices. Skin the skirts, and divide them into small square pieces. Fry both in beef dripping till they are equally and liglitly browned. Drain them, and put tliem into a saucepan with as much stock as will cover them, a finely-minced onion, and a little pepper and salt. Siiiuner all very gently together till the meat is ten(i(,r. Thicken the giavy with a little brown thickening; add a table-spoonful of any good store sauce, and serve. Two or tliree slices of bread, fried till crisp in the same fat as the meat, tlutn cut into sippets, and put roimd the dish, will be a gi-eat improvement. Time, one hour to simuier the meat. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sleeping Cup.—Boil half a dozen cloves, half a dozen coriander-seeds, and half an inch of stick cinnamon in half a pint of water till the liquor is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, put it into a tumbler, and stir briskly into it a quarter of a pint of fine old Jamaica rum. Add sugar to taste, and serve. Sloe, or Sloe-Thorn.—The leaves of the sloe are used for adulterating tea. The fruit, which is very austere, is much employed on the continent of Europe for making a preserve, and also in some places for making a kind of tea. The juice is much used to impart roughness to port wine, and in the fabrication of spurious port. Sloe Wine. — Procure sloes which are sound and ripe. Look them carefully over, and reject all that are bruised and decayed. Pick off the stalks, put the sloes into a large pan, and pour a gallon of boiling water upon every gallon of sloes. Let th6m soak for five days, stirring them well every day. Put four poimds of good loaf sugar to each gallon of liquor, and when it is dissolved, put the whole into a cask with a pint of spirit to each gallon and a half of liquor. If the wine is allowed to remain in the cask for a considerable length of time it will become almost equal to port. Time to keep the wine in the cask, at least twelve months. Sly Bread, or Bread Fritters (an economical and excellent sweet dish).—Beat three eggs without frothing them ; sweeten and flavour them with lemon-rind, rose or orange-flower water, or any other flavouring, and add a table-spoonful of good brandy or rum. Cut some stale crumb of bread into slices the third of an inch thick, stamp them into small fancy shapes with a cutter, put them into the mixture, and let them soak till they have absorbed as much of the egg as possible. Lift them up carefully with a slice, and fry them in hot fat jiist as piincakes or fritters are fried. Pile them on a dish, sprinkle powdered white sugar thickly over them, and serve yery hot. Few persons at first sight would suspect the composition of this dish, which is simple and good. It may be varied by taking slices of common cake with ctin-ants and raisins instead of bread; or, if liked, the bread may first be soaked in milk, and afterwards dipped in the egg batter. Time to fiy, about five minutes. Small Birds, Broiled.—Pick the birds carefully so as not to tear the skin. Split them open down the back, flatten them, lay them on a clean gridiron which has been heated and rubbed with mutton suet, the inside to the fire. Place the pan rather high above the fire. When