BIC ( 737 ) BIO Rice and G-reea Pea Soup (a French recipe). Take ;i suflBcient quantity of rice, and wash it four or five times in moderately warm water. Add some thin stock, and boil for an hour and a half. When the rice is cooked, add, about an hour and a half before serving the soup, some puree of green peas, taking care that they are well mixed, and are neither too thick nor too thin. Rice and Indian Curry.—Wash half a pound of Patna rice in two or three waters. Drain it, and throw it into plenty of cold water, bring it slowly to the boil, keeping the saucepan uncovered, and let it boil gently until the grains are tender when pressed between the thumb and finger, but are still quite distinct from one another. The rice will need to boil about a quarter of an hour. Drain and dry it on a sieve before the fire. Take two pounds of undressed meat of any kind, or of rabbit, chicken, or fish, and cut this up into neat pieces convenient for serving. Slice two large onions, and fry them in butter tiU they are lightly browned without being at aU burnt. Take them up, and fry the meat in the same fat, moving it about to keep it from burning. Mix a dessert-spoonful of curry- paste, a dessert-spoonful of curry-powder, and a tea-spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a cupful of milk. Fova this over the meat, and add half a pint of good stock made from bones, the fried onions, a little salt, and a clove of gjirlic, if this is liked, but the curry wUl be more generally acceptable if the garlic is omitted. Stir the sauce till it boils, and simmer all gently together till the meat is tender. The time required will vary with the nature of the meat. Put the pieces of meat on a dish. Lift out the pieces of onion, and stir into the curry the juice of half a lemon. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Send the rice to table on a separate dish. It should be arranged that the curry and the rice shall be done enough at the same time. Time, altogether, about two hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice and Macaroon Pudding.—Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in a |)int and a half of milk till it is tender, and has absorbed the liquor. Boil with it the rind of half a lemon or three or four bitter almonds, to tlavour it. Turn it into a basin to cool. Beat three ounces of fresh butter to cream. Mix with this three ounces of powdered sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Stir in the rice, and add the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Butter a pudding-mould rather thickly. Put in this a layer of rice, then a layer of macaroons, and repeat imtil the mould ifj full. Lay a buttered paper on the top of the pudding, tie it in a cloth, and steam until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and send raspberry or red-currant sauce to table with the {)udding. About three ounces of macaroons will be required. Time to steam the pudding two hours. Probable cost. Is. 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice and Milk.—Wash a pound of rice, drain it, and simmer in five pints of water till it forms a thick paste. Stir into it a quart Y of milk, add treacle or sugar, with flavouring, or, if preferred, pepper and salt. Boil for a few minutes, and serve hot. Time, five minutes to boil the rice with the milk. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Probable cost, 8d. Rice and Mussels (see Mussels and Rice). Rice and Onion Soup—Brown Soup.— Cut six onions into pieces the size and shape of dice, and fry them in butter tmtil they are nicely browned. Pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently till tender. Rub them through a sieve, add to the pulp two quarts of good stock, put the whole back into the stewpan, with four ounces of well-washed rice, and simmer all gently together until the rice is tender. Add salt and white pepper, and serve. In boiling the soup be careful first to skim it thoroughly, and, after the fat is removed, to stir the soup frequently. The flavour of this soup may be pleasantly varied by frying four carrots, two turnips, six leeks, and a little root of parsley with the onions. TFhite Soup.—Mix six chopped onions with four ounces of soaked rice. Boil the whole till tender in two quarts of veal or chicken broth: season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of pow- dered mace. When the soup is done enough, stir into it one-third of the quantity of boil- ing milk. Let it boil up, and it will be ready for serving. Time, one hour and a half to two hours. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice and Parmesan, Pigeons with {see Pigeons with Rice, &c.). Rice and Pumpkin Soup {f^ee Pumpkin and Rice Soup). Rice and Tapioca Pudding. —Butter a pie-dish, and lay in it a tea-cupful of mixed rice and tapioca, a little more of the former than of the latter. Sprinkle over this two table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar and a little grated nutmeg, and pour over it three pints of cold milk. Place a piece of butter the size of a fourpeimy-piece on the top of the milk, and bake the pudding in a gentle oven. Time to bake, three or four hours. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Rice and Veal Broth.—Put two povinds of the knuckle of veal into a saucepan, and pour over it two quarts of boiling water; add four ounces of washed rice, half a blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt, and let all simmer as gently as possible from an hour and a half to two hours. Serve the broth in a tureen with part of the meat, and send the rest of the meat to table on a separate dish, with parsley sauce over it. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 28. 4d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice and Veal Cutlets.—Take equal parts of cold veal and of rice boiled in milk till it is tender. Pound the ingredients in a mortar, first separately, and afterwards to- gether, season the mixture with pepper and salt, and a verj- small portion of grated nut- meg, and bind it together with yolk of egg. Foi-m it into the shape of smaU cutlets, brusli these over with yolk of egg, and fry in liot