POR ( 607 ) POR score the skin neatly in lines atout a quarter of an inch apart, and rub it over witli salad-oil. Put it into a deep baking dish with eighteen or twenty apples pared, cored, and quartered, as many potatoes peeled and divided, and nine or LOIN or POEK. ten moderate-sized onions. Put the dish in a well-heated oven, and when the meat and vege- tables are done enough serve them on a hot diah, the meat being placed in the centre, and the apples, onions, and potatoes arranged round it. Tune to bake a joint weighing about four pounds, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 9^d. to lOjd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pork, Loin of, Baked (German method). —Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork; sprinkle a tea-spoonful of salt over it, and lay it in a baking dish with half a cupful of stock or water; baste Hberally. When the meat is half cooked, sprinkle two table-spoonfuls of caraway seeds over it. The brown gravy which is in the dish may be served with the meat. The fat must be cleared from it, and it must be strained and seasoned with pepper and salt. Time to bake, allow twenty-five minutes for every pound. Probable cost, 9^d. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Loin of. Marinaded (a German recipe).—Score a fresh loin of pork in the usual way, and rub it well with powdered sage; lay the meat in the salting-pan, and pour over it two pints of tarragon vinegar and two pints of cold water; add a dessert-spoonful of salt, one ounce and a half of bruised peppercorns, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, twelve young sage- leaves, and a small onion. Turn and rub the pork every day for three days. ^ Take it up, drain it, rub it again with powdered sage, wrap it in an oiled paper, and roast before a clear fire. Baste liberally with the pickle. Serve on a hot dish, and send a sauce prepared as follows to table with the meat:—Mix smoothly in a saucepan two oimces of butter and a table-spoonful of flour; add gradually half a pint of the picklo with which the pork has been basted, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a glass of port. Simmer the sauce over a gentle fire untU it is of the con- sistency of cream, and send it to table in a tureen. Time to roast, allow twenty-five minutes per pound. Probable cost, pork, 9^d. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Loin of, Marinaded and Baked (aGerman recipe).—'J'fikothc skin from a loin of pork, lay th(! iiioat in a dec;];) earthen pan, pour over it half a pint of vinegar, and put with it two sliced onions, twelve young sage- leaves, a sprig of thyme and sweet basil, a dozen juniper berries, six cloves, twenty bruised peppercorns, and a table-spoonful of salt. Let the pork remain in this marinade five or six days, turning and basting it twice a day. Take it up, put it with the pickle into a baking dish, and baste frequently. When it is about half baked, pour half a cupful of boiling water into the dish, strain the gravy, and put it back. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, serve on a hot dish, skim the gravy, and pour it round. Time to bake, twenty-five minutes to the pound. Pro- bable cost, 9^d. to lO^d. per pound. Pork, Loin of. Roast.—Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork at equal distances about a quarter of an inch apart. Brush it over with salad-oil, and place the joint before a clear fire, though at a good distance from it, for fear the cracfling should bum before the meat is suf- ficiently cooked. Baste liberally, and when done enough serve on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and apple sauce or Robert sauce to table with the meat. If liked, a little sage and onion stuffing may be served in a separate dish. It is better not to send it to table on the same dish as the meat, as many people object to the flavour. Time, a loin of pork weighing five poimds, about two hours. Probable cost, 9Jd. to lO^d. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Pork, Loin, Roast, To Carve {see Pork, Leg of Eoast, To Carve). Pork, Loin of, Savoury.—Score the skin of a fresh loin of pork in lines a quarter of an inch apart. Rub it thoroughly in every part with a savoury powder made by mixing together a salt-spoonful of powdered sage, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of dry mustard, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a chopped onion. Wrap the joint entirely in oiled papen^ and put it down before a clear fire, though at a distance from it, and baste liberally. Half an hour before the meat is taken down, remove the paper, and baste the meat again Tintil the crackHng is nicely browned. Serve on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and apple sauce to table with the meat. Time, twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, 9|d. to lOJd. per pound. Pork, Loin of, Savoury (another way). —Score a small loin of pork as before. Make a savoury mixture of a moderate-sized onion chopped small, a piece of garlic the size of a pea also chopped, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of shred parsley, half a tea-spoonful of powdered thyme, and a bay-leaf cut small. Stir this powder into a quarter of a pint of salad-oil, and rub the pork well with the mixture. Put it into an earthen pan, and let it remain closely covered for two days, turning it every day. Take it up, wrap it in well-oiled paper, and roast as in the preceding recipe. Servo on a hot dish, and send a sauce prepared as follows to table in a tureen:—Mince finely a moderate-sized onion and a sharp apple. Put those into a small saucepan with a tea-spoonful of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of mustard, half a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and