( 873 ) SIO SIC "Again, milk and the preparations of milk arc a most important iirticles of food for the sick. Butter is the lightest kind of animal fat, and though it wants some of the things which there ai-e in milk, yet it is most valuable both in itself and in enabling the patient to eat more bread. Flour, oats, groats, rice, barley, and their kind, are, as wo have already said, prefer- able in all their preparations to all the prepara- tions of arrowroot, sago, tapioca, and their kind. Cream, in many long chronic diseases, is quite irreplaceable by any other article what- ever. It seems to act in the same manner as beef-tea, and to most people it is much easier of digestion than milk; in fact, it seldom dis- agrees. Cheese is not so usually digestible by the sick, but it has great nourishment in it; and I have seen sick, and not a few either, whose cra^ang for cheese showed how much it was needed by them. " But if fresh milk is so valuable a food for the sick, the least change or sourness in it makes it of all articles, perhaps, the most in- jm-ious; diarrhoea is a common result of fresh milk allowed to become at all sour. The nurse, therefore, ought to exercise her utmost care in this. Buttermilk, a totally different thing, is often very useful, especially in fevers. " Almost all patients in England, young and old, male and female, rich and poor, hospital and private, dislike sweet things ; and while I have never knr wn a person take to sweets when he was ill who disliked them when he was well, I have known many fond of them when in health who in sickness would leave off every- thing sweet, even to sugar in tea; sweet pud- dings, sweet drinks are their aversion; the furred tongue almost always likes what is sharp or pungent. Scorbutic patients are an exception ; they often crave for sweetmeats and jams. "Jelly is another article of diet in great favour with nurses and friends of the sick. Even if it could be eaten solid it would not nourish; but it is simply the height of folly to take an eighth of an ounce of gelatine, and make it into a certain bulk by dissolving it in water, and then give it to the sick, as if the mere bidk represented nourishment. It is now known that jelly does not nourish, that it has a tendency to produce diarrhoea, and to trust to it to repair the waste of a diseased constitution is simply to starve the sick under pretence of feeding them. If one hundred spoonfuls of jeUy were given in the course of the day, you would have given one spoonful of gelatine, which spoonful has no nutritive power what- ever. "f)r. Christian says 'that everj- one wiU be stnick with the readiness with which certain clfisses of patients will often take dilnted meat- juice or beef tea repeatedly when they refuse all other kinds of food. This is particularly remarkable in cases of gastric fever, in which,' he says, 'little or nothing else besides beef tea or dUuted meat-juice has been taken for weeks or even months, and yet a pint of beef tea contains ficarcely a quarter of an ounce of anything but water.' " A small quantity of beef tea added to other ai-ticlcs of food malce^j them more nourishintr. 2 c* * " The reason why beef tea shouldbe nourishin g and jelly not so to the sick is a secret yet un- discovered, but it clearly shows that observation of the sick is the only clue to the best dietary. "Again, the nourishing power of milk and of the preparations from milk is very much underrated; there is nearly as much nourish- ment in half a pint of milk as there is in a quarter of a pound of meat. But this is not the whole question, or nearly the whole. The main question is what the patient's stomach can derive nourishment from, and of this the patient's stomach is the sole judge. Chemistry cannot tell this. The patient's stomach must be its own chemist. The diet which will keep the healthy man healthy will kill the sick one. The same beef which is most nutritive of all meat, and which nourishes the healthy man, is the least nourishing of all food to the sick man, whose half-dead stomach can assimilate no part of it, that is, make no food out of it. On a diet of beef tea, healthy men, on the other hand, speedily lose their strength. "I have known patients live for many months without touching bread, because they could not eat baker's bread. These were country patients. Home-made bread or brown bread is an important article of diet for many patients. The use of aperients may be entirely superseded by it. Oat-cake is another. " To watch for the opinions, then, which the patient's stomach gives, rather than to read books about foods, is the business of all those who have to settle what the patient is to eat— perhaps the most important thing to be pro- vided for him after the air he is to breathe. " A good deal too much against tea is said by wise people, and a great deal too much of tea is given to the sick by foolish people. When you see the natural and almost universal crav- ing in English sick for their tea, you cannot but feel that Nature knows what she is about. But a little tea or coffee restores them quite as much as a great deal; and a great deal of tea, and especially of coffee, impairs the little power of digestion they have. Yet a nurse, because she sees how one or two cups of tea or coffee restores her patient, thinks that three or four cups will do twice as much. This is not the case at all; it is, however, certain that there is nothing yet discovered which is a substitute to the English patient for his cup of tea ; he can take it when he can take nothing else, and ho often cannot take anything else if he has it not. I should be very glad if any of the abusers of tea would point out what to give to an English patient after a sleepless night instead of tea. If you give it at five or six o'clock in the morning, he may even sometimes fall asleep after it, and get perhaps his only two or three hours' sleep duiing the twenty- four. At the same time, you never should give tea or coffee to the sick, as a rule, after five o'clock in the afternoon. Sleeplessness in the early night is from excitement generally, and is increased by tea or coffee; sleeplessness which continues to the early morning is from exhaustion often, and is relieved by tea. The only English patients I have ever known refuse tea. have been typhus cases, and the first sign of their getting better was their craving again