SAU ( 833 ) SAU Sauer Kraut, To Dress (another mode). Take two pounds of kraut, throw it into boiling water, and let it remain for ten minutes. Cool it, and di-aw the water from it. Dissolve a pint of clarified fat in a large stewpan, put in the kraut, pour a quart of stock over it, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the kraut gently over a slow fire till it is soft and yellow. AVhen it has simmered five or six hours, put with it a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, a pinch of pepper, one pound of pork sausages, half a pound of bacon, and half a pound of German sausage. Boil all gently together, and take out the meat when it is done enough. The sausages will be done first, and the bacon last. Drain the sauer kraut, and pile it on a hot dish. Lay the sausages upon it, then cut the rest of the meat into neat pieces, and arrange them all round. Serve very hot. Sauer Kraut, To Dress (another mode). —Take as mucli kraut as will be required out of the barrel, and wash it lightly first in warm and then in cold water. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, put in half of the kraut, lay upon this the meat which it is to accom- piiny—ham, beef, pork sausages, &c., are those usually served with it—lay the remainder of the kraut on the meat, and pour over it a little stock and a glass of wine if liked. Add stock or water occasionally, as it is required, to moisten the preparation, and stir it every now and then to keep it from burning. Cover closely, and simmer gently over a slow fire until the meat is done enough, and the kraut is soft. Serve the meat on a hot dish with the sauer kraut round it. It can scarcely be boiled too long, and can be warmed up again with fresh meat a second time. Time to boil, not less than three hours at the first boiling. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Sauer Kraut, To Pickle.—The fol- lowing interesting particulars as to the German practice in regard to the preparation of sauer kraut are drawn from the " German National Cookery." The finest and hardest white cab- bages must be chosen, and the colour will be improved if they are allowed to lie heaped together in a cool corner for several days before being used. The cutting is usually done with an instrument called a kohlhobel (cabbage- plane). Instead of this a large knife wiU do. Throw away the outer leaves of the cabbages, and halve and quarter them. Cut out the stalks and larger ribs of the leaves. Begin at the top of the head to cut them across in very narrow strips. Have ready a well-seasoned oak-barrel, or pickling-tub, or an earthen bread-pan would do. Cover the bottom of the vessel with clean cabbage-leaves, throw in the cabbage as it is cut, sprinkle it with salt, equally dispersed as it is thrown in. Many scatter in a few juniper-berries or caraway- seeds. As the shred cabbage is put into the tub it should be stamped down hard with a club. When ail is packed closo, strew a little salt over the top, cover it with a few cabbage- leaves, and then with a clean linen cloth. Put on it a wooden lid that will fit inside the vessel, and lay on this a heavy stone. Do not put the " kraut-stand " in too cool a place till fermenta- tion has begun; this may be known by small white globules forming on the brine, which ought to appear above the kraut after a day or two. If this is not the case, boil salt and water, let it get cold, and then pour it over. This latter must not be a strong brine. A good handful of salt is enough to allow for a large bucket or firkin of cut cabbage; too much pre- vents fermentation. In a fortnight the cloth on the top must be well washed in cold water, and spread over again. At the same time the leaves on the top must either be well rinsed also or renewed. This washing must be done once every week, whether kraut is taken out or not. In two or three weeks it is pickled enough for use, and wiU keep good for a year. Saunders.—Mince one pound of under- dressed meat of any kind, moisten with two or three spoonfuls of good gravy, and season with pepper and salt. Spread a layer of mashed potatoes on a dish, put the mince upon them, and cover the whole with mashed potatoes. Rough the sui-face of the potatoes with a fork, and bake the preparation in a moderate oven. When it is lightly browned on the top it is done enough. Send to table with it in a tureen a little of the same gravy with which it was moistened. Time to bake, half an hour. Prob- able cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sausage.—Sausages are made of fresh meat of any kind finely minced, highly seasoned, and put into skins prepared for the purpose. In the country they are mostly made at home, but in large towns they are generally bought ready- made. When the latter plan is adopted, care should be taken to purchase the sausages of a thoroughly respectable dealer, as the mode of their preparation offers peculiar temptations to the introduction into their composition of unpalatable meat which could not be otherwise used. Sometimes sausages are made without skins; when skins are used they should first be cleansed with scrupulous care. Various kinds of meat are made iato sausages, pork and beef being the most common; the proportion of seasoning used varies with individual taste. As a general rule, half an ounce of salt and a quarter of an ounce of pepper wiU sufficiently season a pound of sausage-meat. Sausage Cakes, Soyer's.—Chop some lean pork very fine, having previously detached all the skin and bone, and to every pound of meat add three-quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and a little chopped parsley. When the whole is well chopped, put into a mortar and pound well, finishing with three eggs; then have ready a pig's caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, keeping to the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and broil very gently over a moderate fire. Sausage Dumplings.—Take as many sausages as it is intended to make dumplings. Bend each one into a ring, and eew or skewer