( 906 ) sou than is necessary to warm a room.; those who have not tasted it cannot imagine what a salu- brious, savomy, and satisfying meal is pro- duced by the judicious combination of cheap homely ingredients. The following are the chief broth-herbs, soup- roots, and seasoning's:— Scotch BAiaEY Parsley Peakl Bakley Common Thyme Flouk Lemon Thyme Oatmeal Orange Thyme Bread Knotted Marjoram Rasping Sage Peas Mint Beans Winter Savory ElCE Sweet Basil Vermicelli Bay-leaves Macaroni Tomato Isinglass Tat.ragon Potato Mucilage Chervil Mushrooms Burnet Champignons Allsi ice Cinnamon Carrots Ginger Beetroots Nutmeg Turnips Clove Garlic Mace Shallots Black Pepper Onions Lemon-peel Leeks White Pepper Cucumber Lemon-juice Celery Seville Obange- • Celery Seed JUICB Cress Seed Essence of Anchovy. The above materials, wine and mushroom ketchup, combined in various proportions, will make an endless variety of excellent broths and soups, quite as pleasant to the palate,, and as useful and agreeable to tne stomach, as con- suming pheasants and partridges, and the long list of inflammatory, piquant, and rare and costly articles recommended by some people whose elaborately compounded soups are like their made dishes, in which, though variety is aimed at, everything has the same taste, and nothing its own. The general fault of our English soups seems to be the employment of an excess of spice, and too small a portion of roots and herbs. " Point de legumes, point de cuisini^re," is a favourite culinary adage of the French kitchen, and deserves to be so; a better soup may be made with a coonle of pounds of meat and plenty of vegetables than our com- mon cooks will make you with four times that quantity of meat ; all for want of knowing the uses of soup-roots, and sweet and savoury herbs. Besides the ingredients I have enumerated, many indiscriminately cram into almost every dish (in such inordinate quantities one would suppose they were working for the asbestos palate of an Indian fire-eater), anchovies, garlic, bay-leaves, and that hot fiery spice, cayenne pepper; this, which the French caU (not undeservedly) piment enrage, has some- how or other undoubtedly acquired a character for being very wholesome, whilst the milder peppers and spices are cried down, as destroying the sensibility of the palate and stomach, &c., and being the source of a thousand miflchiefs. 2 J)* We should just as soon recommend alcohol aa being less intoxicating tlian ■wine. The best thing that has been said in praise of peppers is, "that with all kinds of vege- tables, as also with soups (especially vege- table soups) and fish, either black or cayenne pepper may be talcen freely; they are the most useful stimulants to old stomachs, _ and often supersede the cravings for strong drinks, or diminish the quantity otherwise required." A certain portiom of condiment is occasionally serviceable to excite and keep up the languid action of feeble and advanced life; we must increase the stimulus of our aliment as the inirritabiLity of our system increases. We leave those who love these things to use them as they like; their flavours can be very ex- temporaneously produced by chilli-juice, or essence of cayenne, shallot wine, and essence of anchovy. There is no French dinner without soup, which is regarded as an indispensable overture; it is commonly followed by " le coup d'apres" a glass of pure wine, which they consider so wholesome after soup, that their proverb says, the physician thereby loses a fee. Whether the glass of wine be so much more advantageous for the patient than it is for his doctor, we know not, but believe it an excellent plan to begin the banquet with a basin of good soup, which, by moderating the appetite for solid animal food, is certainly a salutiferous custom. We again caution the cook to avoid over- seasoning, especially with predominant flavours, which, however agreeable they may be to some, are extremely disagreeable to others. Cavice, coratch, anchovy, curry-powder, savoury ragout powder, soup-herb powder, browning, ketchups, pickle-Hquor, beer, wine, sweet herbs, and savoury spice, are very convenient auxiliaries to finidi soups, &c. The proportion of wine (formerly sack, then clai-et, now madeira or port) should not exceed a large wine-glassful to a quart of soup. This is as much as can be admitted without the vinous flavour becoming remarkably predomi- nant, though not only much larger quantities of wine (of which claret is incomparably the best, because it contains less spirit and more flavour, and English palates are less acquainted with it), but even veritable eau de vie is ordered in mcny books, and used by, many— especially tavern—cooks. So much are their soups overloaded with relish, that if you will eat enough of thee, they wiU certainly make you intoxicated, they don't make you sick. All this frequent - irises from an old cook mea- suring the excitt oUity of the eaters' palate by his own, which may be so blunted by inces- sant tasting, that to awaken it requires wine instead of water, and cayenne and garlic foi' black pepper and onion. Old cooks are as fond of spice as children are of sugar, and season soup which is intended to constitute the principal part of a meal as highly as sauce of which only a spoonfiil may be relish enough for a plate of insipid viands. How- ever, we fancy these large quantities of wine, &c., are oftener ordered in cookery books than used in the kitchen— practical cooks havo the health of their omployufc. too much at heart,