SAL ( 820 ) ^ SAL tho sauce. Probable cost, 4d. to lOd. per pound. Sufliciont, ODO pound fur three or four porsons. Salt Pish, Boiled—Soak the fish for twenty-four hours, changing the water three or four times. Brush and wash it well, and if it is still hard soak it in lukewarm water. If very hard and salt, thirty-six hours' soaking will be required. Put it in a saucepan, cover with plenty of cold water, and heat it very gently. Kemove the scum as it rises, and keep the water simmering only till the fish is done enough. It should never be allowed to boil fully. Serve on a hot napkin with egg sauce in a tureen. The egg sauce may be prepared as follows:— Boil three eggs till hard, and cut them into i pieces the size of a pea. Put these into a saucepan with a quarter of a pint of good molted butter already boiling, and stir them over the fire three minutes longer. Serve immediately. Salt fish is generally supplied by the fishmongers in a condition to require very little soaking. Time to simmer the fish, half an hour to one hour, according to its thick- ness—the time to be calculated from the moment when it is almost boiling. Probable cost, 4d. to lOd. per pound. Salt Fish Dressed, B-^chauflfe of.— No. 1. Free the flesh from skin, and tear it into flakes. Beat the remains of boiled parsnips to pulp, moisten them with cream or milk, add butter and flour to thicken, and season with pepper and mixed mustard. Add the flaked fish, and stir the preparation over the fire till it is hot. It must not boil. No. 2. Tear the fish into flakes; mix these with double the quantity of mashed potatoes, add a slice of fresh butter and two or more hard- boiled eggs finely minced. Heat the prepara- tion over a gentle fire, and serve with egg dauce. No. 3. Tear the fish into flakes, and mix it with a hard-boiled egg finely minced. Make a circular wall of mashed potatoes, put the fish into the centre, and heat the whole in a brisk oven. Serve with egg sauce. No. 4. Tear the fish into flakes; put it into a sauce- pan with as much cream thickened with flour and butter as will cover it. Let it heat gently, and serve with egg sauce. No. 6. Tear the fish into flakes, and mix with it double its quantity in mashed potatoes. Moisten the preparation with cream, season with pepper and salt, and bind together with a beaten egg. Make it into small balls. Dip these in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. When they are brightly browned, drain them, and serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Salt fish thus prepared may be pressed into a buttered basin, and browned in the oven: after which it should be turned carefully upon a hot dish, and garnished with minced egg and minced beetroot. No. 6. Tear the fish into flakes, and take half the quantity of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Fill a baking-dish with alternate layers of fish and bread-crumbs, season each one with pepper and dry mustard, and upon the uppermost layer (which should consist of crumbs) stick here and there little pieces of fresh butter. Pour into tho dish as much cream or new milk r.B wUl moisten the preparation. Bake in a well-heated oven, and serve. Time to bake, half an hour for a moderate-sized dish. Salt Pish Pie.—Soak and boU the fish, and divide the flesh (freed from skin and bone) into neat squares. Take double its quantity in imrtially-boiled potatoes thinly sliced, together with as many partially-boiled and shced onions as may bo agreeable. Butter a pie-dish thickly, fill it with layers of sliced potato, fish, hard- boiled eggs and onions; season each layer with pepper and dry mustard, itnd place little pieces of fresh butter here and there in the pie. Pour over all a little egg sauce, cover with good pastry, and bake in a well-lieated oven. When the pastry is sufficiently baked the pie will be done enough. If liked, mashed potatoes may be used to cover-the pie inKtead of pastry, and the onions can be omitted altogether. A very good potato pastry may be made with salt fish (see Potato Pastry). Salt in Bread.—In bread-making, salt is always used, not only on account of its fla- vour, to destroy the insipid raw taste of the flour, but because it is thought to make the dough rise better. Salt is used either by mixing it at first with the fiour, or by dis- solving it in the water. A sack of flour made into bread will require, on an average, five pounds of salt. Salt Leg of Mutton.—In hot weather, when there is a danger that mutton wUl not keep, it may be salted to preserve it. In some parts of Scotland this joiat is regularly salted, dried, and smoked, and afterwards boiled. To salt the mutton, pound an ounce of bay-salt with half an ounce of saltpetre. Pub this mixture equally and thoroughly into every part of the joint, and let it lie all night. Drain and wipe it, then salt it well with common or bay- salt. Let it lie for ten days, turning and rub- biag it every day. Hang it to drj^ or boil it from the pickle. Salt, Spiced.—Mix thoroughly half an ounce of grated nutmeg, half an ounce of powdered cloves, a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, and an eighth of an ounce of cayenne. Pound the ingredients, and pass them through a fine sieve. Mix with them a quarter of an ounce of powdered thyme, a quarter of an oimce of powdered bay-leaf, a quarter of an ounce of mixed marjoram and rosemary, and lastly half a pound of dried and powdered salt. Put the preparation in a bottle, stopper it closely, and store in a dry place till wanted. Salt, To Prepare for Table.—Purchase salt in limips, and store it in a dry place. If it is not perfectly dry, put it before the fire to make it so before using it, and then let it cool before putting it into the salt-cellar, or it will harden into a lump. A\Tien wanted for use, rub one lump upon another, and in this way powder the salt, which will be quite fine. Pile the salt in the saltcellar, and smooth the top by pressing it with a knife or table-spoon. Salt. Varieties of.—There arc different kinds ot salt, and different modes of preparing it. For example :—1. Bay-salt, which consists of two kinds, the one prepared by evaporation