WIN ( 1135 ) WIN the liquor continually twenty minutes, and let it remain covered until the following morning. Then stmin the liquor, and put it into your cask upon the rinds of six Seville oranges pared very thin, and eight ounces of sugar-candy broken small, reserving two gallons, which must be made nearly boiling hot, and stirred amongst the rest. Then work it Avith nearly seven or eight table-spoonfuls of good fresh yeast, cover the bung-hole with a tile, and let it work over, filling it up every day as the liquor decreases. When the fermentation has ceased, put in three pints of French brandy and an ounce of dissolved isinglass, and stop it up securely. It will be fine in nine months, and fit for bottling, but will improve if kept longer. Let it remain in bottles well corked and sealed twelve months. Wine, Mulberry. — G-ather the mul- berries before they are quite ripe, bruise them in a tub, and to every quart of the bruised beiTies put the same quantity of water. Let the mixture stand for twenty-four hours, and then strain it through a coarse sieve. Having added to every gallon of the diluted juice three or foiu: povmds of sugar, allow it to ferment in the usual way. When fine in the cask, bottle it. Wine, Mulled.—Any kind of wine may be mulled, though port and claret are the most suitable, and are usually preferred for the pur- pose. Claret needs to be liberally sweetened. The quantity of spice used must be regulated by individual taste, which varies considerably upon questions of this sort. Grated nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, and mace, are the spices gene- rally used for mulled wine. To mull the wine, take equal quantities of wine and water (or, if preferred, double the quantity of wine to that of water). BoU the spice in the water till the latter is sufficiently flavoured; strain the liquor, sweeten it, mix the wine with it, and bring it again to the point of boiling. Serve very hot, with wine biscuits or thin strips of drj^ toast. When equal quantities only of wine and water are used, an egg may be whisked in a bowl, the boiling liquor may be stirred graduallj' into it, and then served. The sauce- pan in which wine is mulled should be delicately clean, and used for no other purpose. Wine, Mulled, Claret.—Take a few cloves, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, the thin peel of half a lemon, two slices of lemon, four oimces of sifted sugar, and one pint of water; boil for a quarter of an hour in an enamelled saucepan, add a little grated nutmeg or powdered ginger, two bottles of claret, one small glass of brandy or cura^oa ; when nearly boiling, strain. Wine, Orange. — " Seville oranges are used for this purpose ; they are best in March. For eighteen gallons of wine half a chest of onmges are required. Pare the rinds from about a dozen or two dozen, as more or less of the bitter wiU be agreeable. Pour over this a quart or two of boiling water, and after letting this stand for twelve hours, strain off the water which extracted much of the essential oil of the oranges. Take the peel off entirely from the remainder of the oranges, squeeze the juica through a bag or sieve, and put it into a cask with about forty-five pounds of white sugar, or fifty-five of the best moist sugar. Soak the pulp in water for twenty-four hours, and after straining this add it to the cask. Repeat this several times till the cask is full. Stir the whole well with a stick till the sugar is dis- solved, then set it to ferment. The fermen- tation is slower than with currant wine, but may be heard hissing for some weeks. When this subsides, close the bung-hole and proceed as in the case of gooseberry wine. Some add brandy. This wine requires to be kept in the cask a year before it is bottled." Wine, Peach (a Canadian recipe).—Take the stones out of forty-five pounds of ripe peaches, slice the fruit into a clean vessel, and strew over and amongst them ten pounds of loaf sugar broken small: let them lie covered up until the next day. Boil ten gallons of soft water, with sixteen pounds of loaf sugar and the whites of ten eggs beaten fine, half an hour, skimming it until clear; then put to it the fruit and sugar out of the vessel, and boil them to a pulp, taking off the scum as it rises. Put the whole into a tub upon the shells and kernels of the peaches previously broken, stir it well, and when properly cooled stir well amongst it nearly half a pint of good yeast, and leave it to ferment. Stir it well two days at proper inter- vals, then strain the liquor through a fine sieve, and put it in yoxir cask to work over, being kept always full. Add the thin rinds of six Seville oranges, and half a pint of orange and lemon juice mixed, and when the fermentation has ceased, put in two quarts of brandy, and stop it up for two months. Then rack it off, into a clean vessel, filter the lees, and fill the cask again, adding an ounce of dissolved isin- glass and six ounces of sugar-candy. Stop it up securely, and keep it twelve months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and let it be six months longer before you drink it. It is a delicious wine, and may be made at a trifling expense. Wine Punch.—Take two lemons, and rasp the yellow rind off with half a poimd of loaf sugar. Put this with the juice of the lemons into a bowl; then make scalding hot two bottles of good Rhine wine, adding to it a pint of strong green tea. Pour this over the sugar, and add from half a pint to a pint of arrack or fine rum. Wine, Raisin.—Procure fresh Smyrna or Malaga raisins; pick out the stalks and all defective fruit; chop twenty-eight pounds of these into smaU bits, and pour upon them three gallons of tolerably hot water, and let them stand to soak for twelve hours. Put the whole into a hair-cloth or clean canvas bag, and with a sufficiently powerful press press out the jtiice. Put two gallons more of hot water on the maro of raisms; let this remain also twelve hours, and press out as before. Mix the two liquids *0f father; but the skins are not to be used. Add to the juice thus obtained three pounds of white sugar, and put the whole into a proper vessel to ferment. Some add an ounce or two ot crude tartar, but no yeast, as the raisiua