( 1164 ) YEA YEA Yeast, Home-made.—No. i. Boil two ounces of best liopH in two quiirts of water for half an hour. 8train tho liquor, and lot it cool down to the heat of now milk. Put into it a small handful of salt and lialf a pound of moist sugar. Boivt up a pound of tine tiour with some of the liquor, and mix all well together. Two days afterwards, add threo pounds of ppta|-oas whicli have 1)000 boiled a,t^d mashed. Let tl^o preparation stand for twputy-four hours, then strain it, and bottle for use, but do not cork ^t till it hag ceased working. Whilst making it, gtir frequently and keep it near the fire. Before using shake the bot,tle 'vyell. It.will l^eop in a cool place fpf two n^onths. Teast made from this recipe is excellent, but it must be prepared with great care. Bread made from it needs to rise longer, both in the sponge and in the dough, than when fresh brewer's yeast is used. No. 2. Put two gallons of cold water into a stewpan, with quarter of a pound of moist sugar and one ounce of salt. Put it on the fire, and as it heats stir in with it one pound of flour. Let it boil for an hour. Pour it out, and when milk-warm bottle it closely. It will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. Half a pint of this yeast will make nine pounds of bread. No. 3. Put a handful of hops into a quart of water, either hot or cold; let them boil for twenty minutes. Mix in a bowl two table-spoonfuls of flour with one table-spoonful of salt and one of moist sugar. Pour the boil- ing liquor through a sieve upon the mixture, and stir briskly. When it is almost cold, stir into it a tea-cupful of good brewer's yeast. Let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours or more, and bottle ior use. In winter- time this yeast should be kept in a warm place. It should be stirred before being used. It should stand to sponge all night, and will then require to rise about two hours after being kneaded. When fresh yeast is to be made, a pint of this preparation may be used instead of a tea-cupful of fresh yeast.' A large tea-cupful of this yeast will raise fourteen pounds of flour. Yeast, Kirkleatham.—Bpil an ounce pf hops in two quarts of water for twenty minuter- Strain the liquor, and mix with it quarter of a pound of flour ap-d a little lesa than quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Bpttle the pre-: paration, and tie the cork down. Whpn the bread is to be made, add mashed potatoes, according to the quantity of yeast required. For a peck of flour, boil and mash three pounds of potatoes, and mix with them half a pound of flour and half a pint of the yeast. Let the mixture stand all day. Mix it with the flour, and let it stand to sponge all night; kncftd and bake next day. Time, twenty minutes to boil the hops in the water. Sufficient, half a pint for about a peck of flour. Yeast. Oatcakes made with {see Oat- cakes made with Yeast). Yeast, Patent.—" To make a yeast g;allon of this con^position—such yeast gallon containing eight beer quarts—bpil in common water eight pounds of potatoes as for eating. Bruise them perfectly smooth, and mix with them, while warm, two ounces of fine honey and one beer quart of common yeast- For making bread. mix tlireo boor pints of the above componitioa with a bushel of flour, using warm water in making the bread. The water should bo waiTOor in winter than in summer, and th(; composition should bo used a few hours after it is made. As soon as the sponge, or the mixtuio of the composition with the flour, begins to fall the first time, the bread should bo made and put into the oven." This recipe is copied from the original specification in the pat<;nt oflice. Yeast, Potato.—Boil any quantity of good potatoes in their jackets. When done enough, peel, weigh, and mash them quickly, and with each pound mix a quart of boiling water. Rub the mixture through a hair sieve, and add an ounce of honey or brown sugar to each pound of potatoes. Boil the mixture till it is as thick as batter; pour it out, and when lukewarm, stir into it a large table-spoonful of soUd yeast to each quart of water. Cover the 'mixture with a cloth; it will be ready for use in twenty- four hours. Double the quantity of this yeast as of beer yeast will be needed. The next time yeast has to be made, use a bottle of this pre- paration (first pouring off the thin liquid fi-om the top) instead of fresh yeast- Fresh yeast will, however, be required every two months. Yeast, Potato (another way).—Boil pota- toes of the mealy sort till they are thoroughly soft. Skin and mash them very smooth, and put as much hot water on them as will make a mash of the consistency of common beer yeast, but not thicker. Add to every pound of pota- toes two ounces of treacle, and when just warm, stir in for every poimd of potatoes two large spoonfuls of yeast- Keep it wariu till it has done fermenting, and in twentj'rfour hours it wiU be fit for use. A pound of potatoes will make nearly a quart of yeast, which has been found to answer the purpose so well, as not to distinguish the bread made with it from bread made with brewer's yeast. Yeast, Potato (another way).—See also Potato Yeast. Yeast, Preserved.—When yeast is plenti- ful, take a quantity and work it well with a whisk until it becomes thin; then procure a large wooden dish or platter, clean and dry, and with a soft brush lay a thin layer of yeast on the dish, and turn the top downwards to keep out the dust, but not the air, which is to dry it. When the first coat is dry, lay on another, and let that dry, and bo continue till the quantity is sufficient; by this means it may soon be made two or three inches thick, when it may be preserved in dry tin canisters or stopped bottles for a long time good. When used for baking, cut a piece oS, and dissolve it in warm water, when it will be fit for use. Yeast, Preserved (another way).—To preserve yeast, take a close canvas bag, fill it with ye^.st, then press out the water and make it into cakes. *' I have tasted bread," says one writer, "made with yeast preserved in this manner, and it has been excellent. The mode pf using it is tp dilute it with warm water, to which a littio gugar and flour are aadod." Yeast, Preserved (another way).—Whisk the yeast to a froth, and then with a p(unt-])rusli \a,y it on wfitiixg paper; continue coating the