TBir ( 999 ) TUB three cloves, and a blade of mace. Half cover the trufHes vnth good veal stock, let them simmer half an houi-, then add a bottle of dry champagne, and simmer for another half hour, keeping them very closely covered. They may either be drained, dried, and sei-ved cold in a silver dish, or on a dish covered with a nap- kin, with the sauce served cold in a tureen, or they may be heated and served hot, with the liquor, strained and considerably reduced, poured over them. Time to stew the truffles, one hour. Truffles, Stuffing of, for Sucking Pig (f^e Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Truffles for). Truffles, Timbale of.—Line a plain round mould with good puff paste. Take six or eight large fresh truffles; wash and brush them thoroughly, and cut them into thin slices. Put them into a small frying-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, shake them over a brisk fire, and be careful not to break them. Drain them, and put them into the mould, place the cover on the top, make a hole in the centre for the steam to escape, and bake in a hot oven. When the pastry is done enough, make up the hole, and turn the timbale on a dish. Make an opening in the top, and pour in a small quantity of good gravy, then lay a slice of truffle in the opening, and serve. Time to fry the sliced truffle, five or six minutes. Truffles, To Prepare for Use.—Soak the truffles for one or two hours in cold water, or if necessary in lukewarm water, to loosen the earth from them. Rinse them well several times, and brush them carefully, until they are delicately clean. Dry them in a soft cloth, and pare them very thinly. The parings of truffles should be used for flavouring purposes. Truffles, with Eggs.—Take a large truffle, clean and pare it, cut it into small pieces, and simmer it in a little butter over a gentle fire for five or six minutes. Drain it, and put it into a clean stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, half a dozen fresh eggs, two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Stir this mixture with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken, then draw it to the side, and beat it until the eggs set without being at aU hard. Put the preparation on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets. Time, altogether, ten or fifteen minutes. Tschi, or Russian Soup.—Take a pound of nicely-flavoured sausage meat. Make it into small balls, and fry these until they are slightly browned all over. Drain them from the fat, put them into a soup tureen, and pour orver them three pints of boiling soup prepared as follows:—Mince two large onions finely,and mix them with a small cabbage finely 'sliced. Put the whole into a stewpan with a piece of fresh butter the size of a large egg, and turn the vegetables about over a gentle fire until they are nicely browned. Sprinkle over them two ourices of flour, and moisten the whole with Uiree pints of nicely-flavoured stock. Stir the soup over the fire until it boils, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and lot it simmer gently for half an hour, skimming care- fully the whole of the time. Just before serving, put into it a table-spoonful of finely-minced lean ham, a glassful of light wine, and three or four tarragon-leaves finely shred. Serve very hot. Sufficient for five or six persons. Time, half an hour to simmer the soup after it has boiled. Tunbridge Cakes.—Rub two ounces of fresh butter into half a pound of dried and sifted flour. Add a pinch of salt, four ounces of powdered white sugar, two ounces of caraway- seeds, and as much water as will be required to make a stiff paste. Roll this out very thin, stamp it into small rounds, prick the surface lightly with a fork, and bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to size. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Tunbridge Puddings. — Boil a pint of new milk, and as it rises in the pan stir into it gradually as much flour as will make a thick batter. Beat it until quite smooth, pour it out, and when cold add three well-beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of sugar, and two or three drops of almond ratafia or any other flavouring. Throw the batter in spoonfuls on a large floured plate, dredge the surface well with flour, and drop the puddings into hot lard or clarified fat. Fry them till they are lightly and equally browned, and serve on a hot dish with white sugar sifted thickly over them. Time to fry, until brown. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. TDNNT FISH. Tunny.—Tunny is a kind of fish slightly resembhng the mackerel: it is caught in the Mediterranean, and sent to other parts preserved in oil. The flesh is delicate and highly esteemed, somewhat resembling veal To serve it, cut it in thin slices, and arrange these m rows overlapping each other. Put httle heaps of chopped parsley and capers round the dish, pour a little fresh salad oil over the fash, and serve. Turbot.—The turbot is the most hi'^hlv esteemed of aU flat fish. Its flesh is white.