PEA PEA ( 626 •) stir it well. When it is quite thick put on the cover, and spread some Luttor over the opouing, so that no water may got into it. Lot tho ice and saltpetre be at least three inches thick around the mould. When quite firm the poach ice is ready for serving, but should remain till wanted. Probable cost, 28. 6d. per pint, with poaches 2d. each. Sufficient for nearly throe pints of ice. Peach Cream Ice (another way).—Boil a dozen ripo poaches in syrup, and rub them through a sieve, as directed in tho last recipe, Mix with the pulp a custard, made of half a pint of milk, the yolks six eggs, and three ounces of sugar. Add two or three drops of cochineal to impart a pink tinge to the prepara- tion, and freeze as directed in the preceding recipe. It may remain in the ice till wanted. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint, with peaches 2d. each. Sufficient for a quart of ice. Peach Fritters.—Make a smooth batter as follows :—Mix four ounces of fine flour and a small pinch of salt with two table-spoonfuls of oil, or one ounce of dissolved butter, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Add very gradually one gill of tepid water, and beat the mixture with the back of a wooden spoon until it is smooth and thick. Put it aside for an hour or two, and twenty minutes before it is used add the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Skin, halve, and stone a dozen ripe peaches, dip them into the batter, and fry in boiling fat until they are crisp and lightly coloured. Drain them well, and serve piled on a dish, with a little ■whipped cream round them. If preferred, the cream may be omitted, and the fritters served on a napkin, with powdered sugar strewn thickly over them. Time to fry the fritters, eight or ten minutes; to drain them, five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Peach Jam or Marmalade. — Take the peaches when quite ripe; skin, stone, and divide them into quarters, put these into a preserving-pan, and stir the fruit over the fire until it is quite soft. Kub the pulp through a coarse sieve, beat it well until no lumps remain, weigh it, and mix with it an equal weight of powdered loaf sugar and a fourth part of the kernels, blanched and bruised. Boil the mixture for a quarter of an hour, stirring and skimming constantly. Pour the jam into jars, cover these in the usual way, and store in a cool, dry place. Time, about half an hour to reduce the peaches to pulp; a quarter of an hour to boil them with the sugar. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Peach Jelly.—Peel, divide, and stone a dozen ripe peaches, and boil them and the bruised kernels for a quarter of an hour, in a thin syrup, made of ton ounces of sugar and half a pint of water. Flavour tho syrup with the grated rind and strained juice of four lemons, strain it through a jelly-bag, and add to it an ounce of dissolved isinglass or gelatine. Pour it into a mould, which should be set upon ice until tho jelly is sufficiently stiff to turn out. The fruit from which this jolly is made may be served as a compQte, with a little red currant-juice added to the syrup. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the fruit. Pro- bable cost, 28. a pint. Sufficient for a quart mould. Peach Water Ice.— Pare, stone, and quarter half a dozen ripe peaches. Put them in a syrup, made by boiling a pound of loaf sugar, with a pint of water, tho white of an egg, beaten to a firm froth, and one peach kernel, for five minutes. Let the peachcB simmer until they are quite soft. Press them through a fine hair sieve, and add to the liquid tho strained juice of two small fresh lemons and two or three drops of cochineal. Freeze in the usual way. Time to boil the peaches, varying with the quaUty. Probable cost. Is. 8d. with peaches at 2d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peaches, Bottled. —Pare, halve, and stone the poaches. Place the halves in per- fectly dry wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them entirely with a thick syrup, made by boiling a pound of loaf sugar in three-quarters of a pint of water until the sugar is dissolved. Cork the bottles, and tie them down. Wrap a wisp of hay round them to prevent their knocking against each other, and place them side by side in a deep stewpan, with cold water up to their necks. Let the peaches boil gently for a quarter of an hour after the water has reached the boiling point, then lift the saucepan from the fire, and do not remove the bottles until the water is almost cold. Seal the corks, and store in a cool dry place. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches, Brandied.—Stew some very fine, ripe, well-flavoured peaches, in a syrup of seven otinces of sugar to half a pint of water, turning them often. When tender, put them, with the sjoTip, into new jars or wide- mouthed glass bottles, leaving space on the top for brandy, which should be poured in when the fruit is quite cold. A few peach or apricot kernels may be blanched and added before the bottles are corked. Average cost of peaches, 28. per dozen {see also Peaches Preserved in Brandy). Peaches, Compote of.—Divide six or eight ripe peaches into halves. Make a syrup, by boiling six ounces of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for eight minutes. Put in the fruit, and let it simmer gently for five minutes. Drain tho peaches from the sjTup, take off their skins, and put them into a compote dish. Add to the sjTup a dessert-spoonful of lemon- juice, or, if procurable, two table-spoonfuls of red currant-juice. When lemon-juice is used, two or three drops of cochineal should also be added, to colour tho syrup slightly. Let it boil three or four minutes longer, then pour it over tho peaches. Blanch three or four of the kernels, split them in four, and place a quarter here and there upon tie fruit. Sen-e either hot or cold. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Peaches, Compote of (another way).-- Boil together for ten minutes half a pint of water and five ounces of sugar. Let the sugar