SPA (910) water as will cover it, and let it Loil gently for an hotu\ Clean and cut into small pieces a couple of carrots, two onions, and two shallots, and fry them in a little butter with a couple of bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, and a head of celery. Stir these in- gredients over tho firo until they are slightly coloured. Pour upon them as much boiling stock, or, failing this, boiling water, as will cover tho ham, and add three or four cloves, half a blade of mace, and a dozen peppercorns. A glassful of light wine may be added, or not. Simmer the ham in tho liquor thus prepared till it is done enough, and let it remain in it till cold. Take it up, trim it in the usual way, and either brush it over with liquid glaze or cover it with bread-raspings. Spanish hams are of three sorts—Bayonne, Montauches, and Grenada hams. Time to simmer the ham in the stock, about four hours. Cost, varying \vith the size, weight, and condition of the market. Spanish Olla.—The Spanish OUa, as communicated by Don Felix Antonio de Al- varado, a native of the city of Seville, in Spain, is made as follows:—"The true olla which they make in Spain is composed of several sorts of meat, as beef, mutton, veal, and bacon; then put in also the ears and feet of a hog, a pullet, with some sausages; moreover, they put in coleworts, turnips, and Spanish peas, which they call garvanqos. It must all be boiled together for four hours to be a true olla. 'Tis reported of the Marquis Chapin (Ciappoini?) Vitello, an Italian, who was one of the best soldiers that nation ever bred, that he had so great a liking to this sort of olla when he was in Spain, that he never cared to dine at home, but walking about the streets, if he smelt in any citizen's house this sort of victuals, he went in there, and sat down at his table to dine with him. Before he went out, he ordered his steward to pay the charge of the whole dinner." Spanish Omelet.—Mince finely as much fat and lean ham as will fill a small tea-cup, and add two finely-minced button - onions. Beat six eggs, stir the ham, «&:c., into them, and fry the omelet in the usual way. A true Spanish omelet would be made with garlic, instead of onion, but this would be too strong for ordinary palates. Spanish Onions {see Onions, Spanish). Spanish Onions, To Pickle.—Choose moderate-sized and perfectly sound Spamsh onions. Skin them, and cut them into thm slices, put them in layers into wide-mouthed bottles, and sprinkle upon each layer a little salt and cayenne. When the jar is almost full, pour cold vinegar into it to cover the onions, tie bladder over the mouth of the bottles, and store the pickle in a cool, dry place. If liked, the jar may be filled with alternate layers oi sliced onion and sliced boiled beetroot, i^nd then three or four drops of cochineal may bo added to the vinegar, to improve the look ot the pickle. For another mode of pickluig Spanish onions, see Onions, Spamsh, Pickled. Time, the pickle may be used in three or four weeks. Probable cost, onions, Id. or I Jd. each. Spanish Pudding.—Cut half a dozen penny sponge cakes into thin slices h.ngthwise. Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, sift powdered sugar on the butter, and line the inside of the dish (3veuly and neatly with tho slices. Proas them with tlie hand to keep them in position. Afterwards till the dish with alternate layers of sliced sponge cake and apricot jam, and jxjur into it as much sherry or inarsala as the cakes will absorb. Beat four eggs briskly, pour them over the cakes, and bake the pudding in a slow oven. When it is set, take it out, let it cool, and turn it out carefully. Have ready the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth, pile them on the pudding, and sprinkle a little powdered sugar with the froth. Put it in the oven to set the egg, and serve the pudding with custard-sauce poured round it. Time to bake the pudding, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, Is. 6d. Sufiicient for half a dozen persons. Spanish Puffs.—Put half a pint of water or milk into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a pinch of salt, a little sugar, and as much grated nutmeg or lemon-peel as will flavour the liquor pleasantly. Stir it till it boils, mix in gradually and smoothly four table-spoonfuls of flour, and beat the mixture over the fire for about three minutes. Take it off the fire, and stir in, one at a time, the yolka of six and the whites of four eggs. Let the batter cool, form it into small balls the size of a walnut, and fry these in plenty of boiling fat tni they burst. Whilst they are being fried, move them carefully about, that they may be equally cooked. Drain them, dust powdered sugar upon them, dish them on a napkin, and serve immediately. Send some wine-sauce to table with them. If liked, puffs thus made can be flavoured with a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, and may be thus converted into ginger puffs. Spanish Rice.—Boil half a pound of rice as for curry, then toss it lightly over a slow fire with a spoonful of salad-oil tiU it is a. bright-yellow colour. Unless great care is taken the rice will bum. Free two large ripe tomatoes from the seeds and juice, and after- wards stir them in with the rice, add a season- ing of black pepper and grated Parmesan, and serve the rice piled on a hot dish. Garnish the rice with thin slices of ham, German sausage, or dried and smoked fish. If ripe tomatoes cannot be procured, a table-spoonful of tomato sauce may be used instead. Spanish Salad.—Put into the centre of a dish some cold dressed French beans, and at the moment of serving stir them up lightly with a little mayonnaise sauce or salad cream of any kind. Garnish the beans with three or four ripe tomatoes cut in slices and ar- ranged in a circle, one slice overlapping another. If preferred, and more convenient, cold dressed Windsor beans, haricot beans, or green peas, or a mixture of all or any of theae, may be used instead of French beans. Spanish Sauce (called also Espagnol Sauce and Brown Sauce).—If a large quantity of sauce is required, butter ?, corjper stewpan