( 974 ) TIN TIN 62. BoUILLAllAISSE. Divide two Portugal onions in quarters, and having shrod these, fry thorn in a stcwpan with two tablo-spoonfula of oil, then add two tea- spoouf uls of popper, a little suit, and a quart of water. Boil live minutes, and add some Aus- tralian hoof cut in dice, lleat well through, and servo very hot. 53. Beep Collops. Cut small slices about two inches across, and fry in fat on both sides. Shake a little llour in, add a dozen oysters, a littlo Harvey, lemon- juice, pepper, and one tea-spoonful of anchovy. Simmer over the tire ten minutes, and dish up. Mushrooms, olives, or gherkins may be used instead of oysters, and a little sherry may be added in this case. 64. Collops (a la Sauce Robert). Prepare the collops as in No. 53, and erve them with this sauce :—Chop two onions very fine, fry till of a light brown, add a wine-glass- ful of vinegar and a good pinch of pepper. Boil together five minutes; then add one table- spoonful of flour, two of corn-flour, half a pint of water, and a bit of butter. Stir over the fire for twenty minutes, add one table-spoonful of French mustard, one table-spoonful of Har- vey Sauce, one tea-spoonful of anchovy. Mix well over the fire, and serve. 55. Ragout de Milan. Cut into inch lengths by half an inch square the following, ready cooked, viz., macaroni, beef, ham, tongue, mutton, chicken, game, or veal. Prepare in equal lots as much as is wanted, put it in a 8te^vpan with a little good white sauce, about one ounce of grated cheese, and a little pepper and nutmeg. Toss over the fire till quite hot, and serve. 56. Capilotade op Beef or Mutton. Cut up in neat slices beef or mutton, flour and pepper and salt them, put aside on a plate; then chop fine about two table-spoonfuls of pic- cahlli and two table-spoonfuls of its liquor. Put in a stewpan with a wine-glassful of ket- chup, reduce by boiling to half, then add the meat, a glass of sherry, and a gill of gravy. Boil gently five minutes, and serve. 57. Beep and Haricot Beans. Prepare the meat as in No. 56; prepare the beans as follows:—Shell a pint of the large white sort (they should he in water all night), put them in sufficient water to cover them with an ounce of Australian fat. Let them boil till quite tender (they will take three hours); rub through a wire sieve—they should be very thick —season nicely, add one ounce of butter, and return to the stewpan. Stir till hot, and serve round the beef. 58. MiROTON OF Beef. Cut six onions into thin slices, fry in two ounces of fat till brown; add one table-spoonful of flour, nearly one pint of water, and ketchup; pepper and salt to season; stir over the fire to boil ten minutes, and pour over the beef dished up in slices; strew raspings over it, bake a quarter of an hour, ancT serve hot. A spoonful of chutneewill be found a great improvement. 59. Mutton with Tkench Beans. Prepare some mutton as in recipe No. 23; lay it in a flat dish. lioil French beans till tender, strain the water oft", and stir thorn in tlie pan in whidi the meat has been fried witli one ounce of butter, pepper and salt, lialf a pint of thiclcenod brown gravy. Pour round the meat, and serve. 60. Smoking Chimney, This recipe requires a tin shape, ■with a tin lid fitting to the top, through which a fun- nel like a cottage chimney rises. Cut beef or mutton in dice, stir over the fire with a Uible- spoonful of Harvey Sauce, four table-spoonfuls of gravy, a boiled and cut-up onion, and two table-spoonfuls of flour, one ounce of butter, a few cooked mushrooms, and pepper and salt to season. Put this in the lower part of the tin. On the lid place a layer of mashed potato raised hke a cottage roof; the steam from below will rise through the funnel, and give the effect of a smoking chimney. 61. Beef with Sheep's Liver. Cut up thick slices of beef and thin shces of liver, pepper and salt both, and flour them well. Put the liver into a dripping-pan with equal shoes of good bacon and a pint of water; cover them with very thin shces of onion; let them cook thoroughly, stirring them every five minutes, and flouring them well each time. When the liver is thoroughly done put in the beef; stir about gently to give it the flavour of the gravy, and when quite hot serve. 62. Sheep's Heart, Stuffed. Prepare some forcemeat as in recipe No. 15 ; stuff the hearts with it—not too full, or the stuf- fing wUl burst out. Brush the hearts over with milk, and roll in flour. Fry them in a httle fat and turn them about on all sides till nicely browned; put in a stewpan with a pint of well- seasoned stock. Let them simmer one hour and a half, or till tender; drain away the gravy, skim it, and boil it sharj^ly till reduced to one- half, thicken with a little flour (a glassful of claret is an improvement), pour over the hearts, and serve very hot. The hearts are better placed on a layer of Austrahan mince made very hot and savoury. 63. Beef and Kidneys. Fry beef in shces and kidneys in very thin slices, lay them alternately one over the other; pour over them a rich browTi gravy, and serve with fried bacon laid over them at intervals. 64. Beef and Tomato Sauce. Put in a stewpan six shced shallots, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and a wine-glassful of ^•inegar. Boil gently for five minutes; add a quarter of a pound of tomato pulp, one ounce of butter, one tea-spoonful of anchovy. Stir till it has boiled a few minutes longer. ' Strain through a "coarse tin strainer over shces of fried beef, and serve. 65. Veoetahle ^Marrow, Stuffed. Take out the seeds of a small custard marrow, fill the hollow with forcemeat No. 15; tie the marrow in a cloth, boil till tender, peel it care- fully, and servo with good brown gravy. 66. Stuffed Cucumber. Take out the seeds of a cucumber, fill it aa in