( 98S ) TRE TBI Treacle Pudding (another way).—Make some good tinu suet pastry, roll it out to the third of an inch in thickness, and longer than it is hroad. Spread treacle all over it within half an inch of the edge. Wet the edges, roll up the pudding into the form of a bolster, and fasten the ends securely. Wring a pudding- cloth out of boiling water, flour it well, fold it round the pudding, and tie the ends firmly. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. If liked, a table-spoonful of flour and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of ground ginger may be mixed with every four table-spoonfuls of treacle, or a little grated lemon-rind, the jmce of a lemon, and a few bread-crumbs may be sprinlded over the treacle. When the pudding is done enough, let it cool a minute or two, turn it out carefully, serve on a hot dish, and send melted butter to table with it. Time to boil, one hour and a half, or morg, according to the size. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Treacle Toffee.—Rub the saucepan with butter, and pour in as much treacle as may be wanted. Let it boil gently until a small por- tion will break between the teeth after being thro'wn into cold water. "Wlien the toffee has reached this point it should be taken at once off the fire, or it will ver}"^ quickly acquire a burnt taste. Pom- it upon a buttered dish, and when it is cool roll it into sticks, and fold it in clean white paper. The toffee may, if liked, be fla- voured with essence of peppermint, or almond, or lemon flavouring, and it is said that a little cayenne pepper thrown into treacle toffee is an excellent cure for a cough. Trifle.—This is a compound of syllabub and sweetmeats. Line the bottom of a glass trifle- dish with sponge biscuits stuck with blanched almonds; moisten them with sweet wine, or with sherry and sugar. Over those lay a dozen ratafia cakes dipped in noyeau. Intersperse with these some thin slices of citron and orange- peel, and distribute over these pieces of apricot and raspberry jam with currant jeUy. Pour over these a few spoonfuls of the liquor of the syllabub. The next layer should consist of tartlet crdam of about the thiclmess of an inch, over which grate some nutmeg, and strew a little powdered cinnamon, together with a small quantity of lemon-peel, and some powdered loaf-sugar. Lastly, take the whipped froth from the sieve, and put it on the top as abundantly as the dish will contain. To give it a pleasing appearance, strew various coloured comfits over the froth. The tartlet cream to form one of the layers may be made as follows: —Mix together half a pint of cream and the same quantity of milk; put into it a piece of fresh lemon or Seville orange-peel, and a little cinnamon, and sweeten with loaf sugar. Let these ingredients boil about ten minutes. Have ready prepared in another pan the yolks of six eggs woU-bcatcn up with a heaped tea-spoon- ful of fine flour; to these gradually strain the boiled ingredients, and then whisk them well together over a gentle fire, so that they may acquire the proper consistence without curdling. If you are f)eficient of cream, milk only may be employed, but in that case a little more fioui will be required. Trifle (another way).—The whipped cream which is laid over the top of a trifle should be made the day before it is wanted, as then it will be much firmer. Rub the rind of a large fresh lemon with two or three lumps of sugar till all the yellow part is taken off, then add a little more sugar to make up the quantity to three ounces, and crush it to powder. "VN'ai-m a pint of cream, and stir the sugar in this till it is dis- solved. Add a glassful of sherry, a tea-spoonful of the juice of the lemon, a table-spoonful of brandy, and the whites of two eggs, which have been whisked separately to a firm froth. IMill or whip the mixture in a cool place, and as the froth rises take it off, and place it on an inverted sieve to drain. Continue whisldng until the whole of the cream is frothed, and set the sieve in a cool place, or upon ice, with a dish under it. The next day put four sponge biscuits, a quarter of a pound of macaroons, and a quarter of a pound of ratafias at the bottom of a trifle-dish, and pour over them a large wine- glassful of sherrj', and another of brandy, or if preferred use two parts wine and one part spirit, and let the biscuits soak tiU they have absorbed all the liquor. Grate a little lemon- rind upon the cakes, and spread over them a layer of good jam, then cover them with a pint of nicely-flavoured rich cold custard. Pile the vs'hipped cream lightly over the top as high as possible, and then garnish the dish with pink comfits, bright-coloured jelly, or flowers. Time, about one hour and a half to whip the cream. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine and sijirit, 4s. 6d., if the custard be made with milk. Suf- ficient for one trifle. Trifle (another way.)—Whip a pint of cream the day before it is wanted, according to the directions given in the last recipe; as the froth rises lay it on a reversed sieve to drain. Take two dozen finger biscuits; spread a little raspberry jam on the flat side of twelve of them, and press the other twelve upon it. Arrange these round a triflc-dish, put a quarter of a pound of macaroni, a quarter of a pound of ratafias, and four penny sponge cakes at the bottom of the dish; pour over them a glassful of sherry or madeira and a glassful of brandy, and let them soak till they have absorbed all the liquor. Pour a pint of rich cold custard over the soaked biscuits, and pile the whipped cream on the top. The custard may be made with a pint of milk, the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, a heaped table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a table-spoonful of brandy, and any flavouring that may be preferred. Time, twenty-four hours to drain the whipped cream; two hours to soak the biscuits; ten minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine and spirit, 4s. lOd. Sufficient for one centre dish. Trifle, An Elegant.—Make a whip the day before the tnflc is wanted, as no whip is solid unless it has stood for some hours. It should be made with a quart of thick cream, nearly all of the nnd of two lemons, a glassful of sherry, and three table-spoonfula of sugar. Whisk the