PIG ( 547 ) oftener in hot weather than in cold. Every time it is hoiled add to it two pounds of common salt, two pints of water, two ounces of sugar, and h;ilf an ounce of saltpetre. Pickles.—This is the name given to vege- tables or fruit preserved in vinegar. They are used as accompaniments to cold meat, to gar- nish dishes, and to flavour hashes and sauces. It is generally understood that they can be bought cheaper than they can be made. Nevertheless, there is always a certain amount of satisfaction in using home-made preparations, as by this means the quality of the article can be assured beyond all qiiestion, and many ladies take great pride in their store of home-made pickles. A great outcry was raised some years ago about the unwholesomeness of pickles, and attention was called to the fact that most of those ordi- narily sold were positively pernicious, because the vinegar used in making them was boiled in copper vessels. This evil has now been, to a great extent, remedied; and it may be reason- ably assumed that pickles which arc sold by re- spectable dealers have been properly prepared. At the same time, for safety's sake, the rule should be laid down that aU pickles which arc beautiful and brilliant in coloui" and appearance should be avoided, as this is a certain sign that the vinegar used has been boiled in a metal pan. In making pickles, care must be taken that the vegetables and fruit used for the purpose are procured at the right season, that they are perfectly sound, not overripe, and have been gathered on a diy day. They should be trimmed and wiped before they are used, and not washed, unless they are afterwards to be par- tially boiled or soaked. The vinegar must be of the best quality. White wine vinegar is generally recommended, for the sake of the appearance, but it is not so wholesome as the best brown vinegar. Metal utensils should never be used in making pickles, as the vinegar acting upon the metal produces a poison." Enamelled or stone vessels and wooden spoons should there- fore be used; and the best method that can be adopted is to put the vinegar into a stone jar, and heat it on a stove or hot hearth. Pickles should be kept in glass bottles, or unglazed earthen jars, and should be closely corked, and the corks sealed down, or covered with wet bladder. They should be stored in a dry .place. As the vinegar becomes absorbed, more should be added, as it is important that the vegetables should be covered at least two inches above the surface with vinegar. If any of the vinegar is left after the pickle is used, it should be boiled up with fresh spices, and bottled for flavouring sauces, &c. It should be remembered that to boil vmcgar is to decrease its strength. If it is wished to hasten the preparation of the piclilcs, partially boil the vegetables in brine, and let them cool and- get quite dry before the vine- gar is poured, over thorn. Tho following, list gives the best times for making pickles : Artichokes . . July and August. Oahbaoe, Ked . . August or after early frost. Cabuaoe, White . SeptemberandOctober. Capsicums, Red, Yel- The end of July and LOW, AND trUEEK . AugUSt. Caulifloweks Chillies . cucumbeks French Be.^'s Gaelic Gherkins . HORSEItADISH Jerusalem Arti- chokes . Melons (for Mangoes) July and August. The;end of July .and August. The middle of Julv and August. Mushrooms pickhng and chup) Nasturtiums Onions (For ket- July. Midsummer toMichael- mas. , ■ (. The middle of July and August. November and Decem- ber. : July and Aug-ust. Middle of July and August. September. The middle of July. The middle of July and August. Radish Pods . . July. Samphire . . . August. Shallots . . . MidsummcrtoIMichael- mas. Tomatoes . . . End of July and August Walnuts . . . From the middle of July to the middle of August. ; To Green Pickles: keep them in hot vinegar until they become- so, and keep them closely covered down, or the evaporation of the steam, may injure the colour. To make pickles crisp, dissolve a very small piece of alum in the vinegar. A piece the size of a bean will be sufficient for a gallon of vinegar. ; ■ ' ' Re'cipes for the following piclvles will bo- found under their rcBpective headings :— Artichoke Bqttoms Barberries Beans, French Beetroot Brocoli Cabbage, Red Capsicums CAULIFLOWril Cherries Cranberries ^ Cucumbers Fennel Garlic Gherkins Gherkins (French. Method), Gr^vn dm^vmma's Grape Horseradish Hot Indian L.VDIES' Lemons Ll.MES Mangoes JIelons fOr Venison Mushrooms JMushrooms in Brine Nasturtium Onions Onion.s, Sp.i>;i.su Onjon.s, Spanish, and Beetroot Oranges Peaches Radisu-pods Roots Shallots Tomatoes Walnuts Pickles, Mixed.—Begin maldng this pickle about the middle of ]\L'iy. Take a large earthen jar which will hold two gallons. Put into it a gallon of the best brown vinegar, and add four ounces of bruised ginger and four ounces: of mustard-seed. Put into a bowl a quarter of a pound of salt, one ounce of ground black popper, a quarter of an ounce of cayenno, two blades of mace finely powdered, a quarter of a pound of unmixed mustard, and two ouUcbs of turmeric. Make thcae ingredients into ,a