VIN VIK ( 1094 ; of British wine, or othorwiso a quantity of low- pricod raisins, is laid, tho liquor is turned into another bjirrol every twenty-four hours, in which time it has begun to grow warm. Sometimes the liquor is fully fennontod without tho rape, which is added towards tho end to communicate flavour. Vinegar, Preserving of.—The methods of preserving vinegar are various. It is a fact generally kno>vn that vinegar, of whatever kind, wUl not keep long, but in the course of a few weeks, especially in tho warm temperature of summer, grows turbid; its surface is then covered with a thick mucilaginous substance, dui'ing which time the acid disappears by de- grees, and at last is entirely lost; whence the vinegar must veiy often be thrown away. Now, in order to avoid this spoiling of the vinegar, five methods are known. The first is to prepare the vinegar veiy strong and sour at first, by using more sugar or other materials. It is well known that such vinegar will keep for several years; but as few people prepare their own vinegar, most persons contenting themselves with buying it at the shops, there are of course but few who can make use of this method. The second method is to concentrate the vine- gar by freezing; after which a hole is made in the crust of ice which covers it, through which the part that is not congealed is let out, and afterwards put into bottles. This manipulation answers well enough; but nearly one half being lost, because that which forms the crust of ice is nothing for the most part but water, good economists dislike it. The third method is to prevent the access of air by filling the bottles, and keeping them corked. Though vinegar is kept long by this method, it is not much employed, probably because it is troublesome to fill up the bottle with clear vinegar from another bottle every time you make use of part of its contents. The fourth method is to_ distil the vinegar, and thus leave behind the impurities. Distilled vinegar does not suffer the least change, though exposed to a warm air for years; but the expense of distilling is often thought too much. The following method of purifying and preserving vinegar is the easiest, and answers suflBciently. Put the vinegar into a well-tinned vessel, and make it boil for a minute over a strong fire, or the vinegar may be put into bottles, and then into a kettle of water upon the fire, and boiled; this will coagulate the glutinous and mucilagpinous matter which all vinegar contains, and this may be separated by straining; after which the clear liquor should be kept in well-corked bottles. Vinegar pre- pared in this way keeps long without spoiling, and should be so treated when intended for pickling vegetables. Vinegar Sauce for Venison.—Put half a pint of vinegar into a well-tinned and perfectly clean saucepan, together with four ounces of pounded loaf sugar; simmer the sauce gently till the sugar is dissolved, remove the scum as it rises, strain through a napkm, and serve in a tureen. Vinegar, Seasoned, for Indian Pickle.—The quaiitily o£ vinegar required to be seasoned must bo regulated by that of the pickle to be made. Tbere sliould be enough to cover the pickles entirely^ with a little over to make up for evaporation. To prepare the vinegar, mix an ounce of powdered turmeric and three ounces of flour of mustard smoothly with a Uttlo cold vinegar. Stir in gi-adually additional vinegar to make up tho quantity to six pints. Cut a root of horseradiiih into slices, put it, with two ounces of shallots and two ounces of bruised ginger, into a vessel; pour over them six pints of strong vinegar, and add half a pound of salt, together with an ounce of chillies, and two ounces of white pepper tied in muslin. Boil all gently together for twenty minutes, and pour the preparation, while hot, on the pickle, having first poured off the vine- gar in which they were infused. If it is wished that the pickle should quickly be made ready for use, the vinegar may be boiled again in ten days, and again poured hot over the pickles, which will be ready when cold. Vinegar, Seasoned, for Salads.—Take of shallots, tarragon, savory, and chives, three oimces each, and of balm and mint one ounce each; dry these ingredients verj- carefully, and bruise them. Put them in a wide-mouthed bottle, pour upon them a gallon of vinegar, and cork the bottle securely. Put it in a warm place, leave it for two or three weeks till the vinegar is strongly flavoured, pour off the liquor, and press the herbs very dry with a wooden spoon. Let the vinegar stand to settle for a few hours, filter it, and put it into small bottles. Cork closely, and store for use. Vinegar, Strengthened.—When vine- gar is not sufficiently strong, expose it in an open situation during frosty weather. "VNTien the S'orface is frozen, take the cake of ice from the top of the vinegar. If this is melted, it will be found to be water only. The \Tnegar, being freed from so much water, wiU be more acid than before, and may be frozen again and again, until it becomes of the desired strength. Vinegar, Sugar.—Take a sufficient quan- tity of water, and to every three quarts put a pound of raw sugar. Boil for half an hour, skimming if necessary. Set the liquor in an earthen vessel to cool; when not more than lukewarm throw in a slice of bread with yeast strewed over it thickly on both sides. Ferment for two days, then pour the liquor into a barrel which has previously been well rinsed out with vinegar. Paste over the bimg-hole a piece of brown paper, perforate this with a fork, so as to leave little aii--holes, and set the barrel in a dry warm place. Vinegar, Violet (a German recipe).— " Gather wood violets when they are most plentiful—in spring. Put the flowers, without their stems, into bottles, shaking them down tiU full Then pour in as much wine vmegar as they wiU take; cork, and set them m the sun three or four weeks. Strain off the vinegar after this time. A spoonful or two of the violet vinegar in water, with or without sugar, is, in many cases, a remedy for nervous headache^ It is good also for flavouring beverages and sweet dishes."