( 663 ) PUD PUD quantity when of small size. The yolks and whites, if the pudding is wanted particuliirly li<>-ht and nice, should be strained after being separately well beaten. A little salt is neces- sary for all potato, bean, or peaa puddings, and all puddings in which there is suet or meat, as it improves the flavour. The several ingredients, after being well stirred together, should in general have a little time to stand, that the flavours may blend. A frequent fault of boiled puddings, which are often solid bodies, is being underdone. Baked puddings are as often scorched. Puddings may be steamed with advantage, placing the mould or basin in the steamer, or three-parts dipped in a pot of boiling water, which must be kept boilrag, and fiUed up as the water wastes. When the pud- ding-clotha are to be used, dip them ia hot water, and dredge them with flour; the moulds must be buttered. Plain moulds or basins are easily managed. "When a pudding begins to set, stir it up in the dish, if it is desired that the fruit, &c., should not settle to the bottom ; and, if boiled, turn over the cloth in the pot ibr the same reason, and also to prevent it from sticking to the bottom, on which a plate may be laid as a preventative. The time of boiling must be according to size and solidity. Large puddings are sometimes tethered to the ring of a twelve or fifteen-poimd weight, to keep them below water in the pot. When the pudding is taken out of the pot, dip it quickly into cold water. Set it in a laasin of its size. It will then more readily separate from the cloth with- out breaking. Have the oven very clean for all uses, cleaning it regiilarly before lighting the fire. Take care that the jxiice of pies does not boil over, or the liquid contents of puddings; and remember that sugar, butter, and suet be- come liquids in boiUng. It is from their excess that puddings often break. Be, therefore, rather sparing of sugar ; for if you have much syrup you must have more eggs and flour, which make puddings heavy. It is often the quantity of sugar which makes tapioca and arrowi-oot, boiled plain, troublesome to keep in shape when moulded, liice or other grain pud- dings must not be allowed to boil in the oven before setting, or the ingredients will separate and never set; so never put them into a very hot oven. As a rule, we may assume that such flavouring ingredients as lemon-grate and juice, vanilla, and cocoa-nut, are more admired in modem puddings than cinnamon, cloves, and . nutmeg. Care must be taken to mix batter pud- dings smoothly. Let the dried flour be gradu- ally mixed with a little of the milk, as in making mustard or starch, and afterwards, in nice cookery, strain the latter through a coarse sieve. Puddings are lighter boiled than baked. Raisins, prunes, and damsons for puddings must be care- f >illy stoned; or sultanas may be used in place of other raisins. Currants must be picked and plunged in hot water, rubbed in a floured cloth, and plumped and dried before the fire; almonds must be bLanched and sliced; and in mixing grated bread, pounded biscuit, &c., with milk, pour the milk on them hot, and cover the vessel for an hour, which is both better and easier than boiling. Suet must be quite fresh and free of fibres. Mutton suet for puddings is lighter than that of beef: but marrow, when it dan be obtained, is richer than either. A baked pudding for company has often a paste border or a garnishing of blanched and sliced almonds about it, but these borders are merely matters of ornament; if moulded, puddings may also be garnished in various ways, as with bits of currant jelly. The best seasoning for plain batter puddings are conserve of Seville orange, lemon-rind, lemon brandy, or orange- flower water. The sweetness and flavour of puddings must, in most cases, be determined by individual taste. Sugar can be added at table. Very good puddings can be made without eggs; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or foiu- hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. Or snow is an excellent substitute for eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. This is a useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the season when eggs are dearest. The snow may be taken up before it is wanted, and will not lose in virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. " Batter puddings," says Dr. ELitchener, " must be quite smooth and free from lumps. To insure this, first mix the flour with a little milk, add the remainder by degrees, and then the other ingredients. If it is a plain pudding, put it through a hair-sieve — this will take out all liimps efiectually. Batter puddings should be tied up tight; if boiled in a mould, butter it first; if baked, also butter the pan. Be sure the water boils before you put in the pudding, set your stewpan on a trivet over the fire, and keep it steadily boiling all the time. If set upon the fire the pudding often bums. " Be scrupulously careful that your pudding- cloth is perfectly sweet and clean; wash it without any soap, then rinse it thoroughly in clean water after. Immediately before you use it, dip it in boiling water, squeeze it dry, and dredge it with flour. If your fire is very fierce, mind and stir the puddings every now and then to keep them from sticlang to the bottom of the saucepan. If in a mould, this care is not so much required; but keep plenty of water in the saucepan. When puddings are boiled in a cloth, it should be just dipped in a basin of cold water before you untie the pudding-cloth. " Currants, previous to putting them into the pudding, should be plumped. This is done by pouring some boiling water upon them. Wash them well, and then lay them on a sieve or cloth before the fire; pick them clean from the stones. This not only makes them look better, but cleanses them from aU dirt. Raisins, figs, dried cherries, candied orange and lemon-peel, citron, and preserves of all kinds, fresh frmts, gooseberries, currants, plums, damsons, &c., are added to batter and suet puddings, or inclosed in the cmst ordered for apple dumplings, and make all the various puddmgs called by tliose names. '' Plum puddings, when boiled, if hung up in