PUti PUP ( 667 ) for a little while, then roU it out to tho thick- ness of a quarter of an inch. Take two plain or fluted pistry-cutters, one half the size of the other. Dip the larger into hot water, and stamp out as many rounds as are required. Place these on a baking-sheet, and brush them over with egg, then dip the smaller cutter into hot water, and press it about half through the rounds in the centre. Bake in a quick oven, and when they are done enough take out the small rounds of crust from the top with a sharp knife, and scoop out the crumb and the soft part from the inside. Before sending them to tiible fin the inside with any one of the difierent kinds of patty meats. These are com- posed of savoury minces, made of poultry, game, or fish. Lay the little lid on the top, and serve. Time to bake the patties, eighteen to twenty minutes. Puff Paste Kings or Pyramids (a pretty dish for a Juvenile Party).—Roll out some good puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out first in a roimd the size of the inside of the dish upon which the pastry is to be served, and after- wards in rounds, gradually decreasing in size, until one is cut to lay on the top of the pyra- mid. Brush these rings over with egg, and bake them separately on baking-sheets till they are done enough. Lay them one on the top of the other in gradation, spread bright- coloured jam of different colours on the rims, and crown the pyramid with a dried apricot, or any suitable ornament. If liked, three or four small pyramids may be made instead of one large one. Tho roimds may then be formed into rings by stamping a small cutter through the centre, tho holes in the rings may be filled with bright-coloured jam, and the pastry may be covered with sifted sugar. Time to bake the rounds, fifteen to twenty-five minutes, accord- ing to size. Puff Paste Tartlets.—Take half a pound of puff paste and give it eight turns; roU it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Dip a plaia or fluted cutter, an inch and three- quarters in diameter, into hot water, and stamp out as many rounds as will be required. Gather the trimmings of the paste together, and roll it to the thickness of the sixth of an inch. Dip the cutter again in hot water, stamp out again the same number of rounds, and form them into rings, by pressing a smaller cutter, an inch in diameter, quite through them. Moisten the edges of the rounds, and lay the rings upon them to form the rims of the tartlets. Bake in a mode- rate oven, and whilst they are warm fill them with good jam. Place upon this a little orna- ment of pastry, made of the remnants. If the tartlets are wanted hot, put them into the oven for a minute before sending them to table. Thoy are, however, generally served cold. Time to bake, ten to twelve minutes. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Puff Puddings.—Beat four ounces of buttor to a crcarn. and mix with it four tablo- spoonfula of flour, tho yolks of four oggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a pint of cream or mUk, and a little almond flavouring. A minute or two before the puddings are to be baked, add tho whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Butter some large patty-pans, and three- parts fill them with the mixtirre. If Uked, a few currants may be sprinkled over the puddings. Bake in a well-heated oven, and serve the pud- dings as soon as they are done enough, with white sugar sifted over them; send wine sauce to table with them. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 2d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Puffed Eggs.—Beat four eggs lightly, and mix with them about a pint of cream or of milk. Season with salt and pepper. Butter a mould, and pour in the mixture; cover it, and set it on a plate turned upside down in a saucepan, with boUing water two inches deep. Let the mixture steam until it is set. Turn it upon a hot dish, and pour round it a little good brown gravy. Time to steam, twenty minutes or more. Probable cost, lOd., if made with milk. Sufficient for two or three persons. Puflfe.—Recipes for the following puffs will be found under their respective headings:— Almond Irish Apple Jam Austrian Lady Abbess, Claret Lemon Clifton Of Larks German Parmesan German, Almond Potato Ginger Rice Hasty Spanish Puffs of Larks.—Make half a pound of puff paste, according to the recipe already given. Pluck and draw three or four larks, and brown them equally all over in a stewpan with a little butter. Take them up, drain them, and put into the body of each bird a small lump of fresh butter, one or two bearded oysters, a little pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of thick cream. Truss each lark firmly, and wrap it in slices of fat bacon. Cover it with the pufi paste, roUed out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and shape it as neatly as possible. Put the puffs side by side on a buttered tin, and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. Probable cost of larks, Is. 6d. per dozen. Sufficient, four or five for a dish. Puits d'Amour .—Make a fine rich pufi paste, and roll it out thin. With tin shapes, made on purpose, cut it out, each size less than another. Lay the sizes in a pyramidical form; then bake in a moderate oven, that the paste may be done sufficiently, but very pale. Lay different coloui-ed sweetmeats on the edges. Pulled Bread (for the Cheese Course).— Take the crust off a newly-baked loaf while it is still warm. Pull it lightly and quickly with thci,fingers of both hands into rough pieces, and bake these in a slow oven until they are lightly browned and crisp. Pulled Turkey, Fowl, or Chicken. —Skin a cold chicken, fowl, or turkey. Take off the fillets from the breasts, and put them into a stewpan with the rest of the white moat and wings, side-bones, and merrythought, with