PRA ( 649 ) little cold butter, and pound all well together in a marble mortar till of the consistence of paste. Put it into pots covered with clarified butter, and covei" these over mth wetted bladder. Prawns, Stewed—Pick the tails from a pint of freshly-boiled prawns. Bruise the shells, and put them with the heads into a saucepan with a pint of white wine and water, then add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, half a blade of mace, and a little cayenne. Let them simmer gently for half an hour. Strain the liquid, put it back into the saucepan, thicken with a tea-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little butter, and boil till it is of the consistency of thick cream. Put in the tails of the prawns, and let them get quite hot. Toast a slice of the crumb of bread, and cut it into strips. Lay these in their original form on a dish, pour the stewed prawns over them, and serve very hot. Garnish with parsley. Time, three or four minutes to heat the prawns. Sufficient for four or five persons. Preservation of Food.—There are four leading methods by which food, and particularly animal food, has been, and is, preserved with a greater or less amount of success. These are— first, drying, or desiccation; second, the appli- cation of cold, or refi-igeration; third, the use of chemical agents, or antiseptics; and foui-th, the application of heat. To speak of these methods in order, let us first take the process of drying, or desiccation. In a sense this is hardly a scientific mode of food- preservation at all; certainly it is far from a satisfactory one in reference to animal sub- stances, which must be dried almost to a chip before they are fitted thoroughly to resist the ordinary laws of decomposition. It is not, however, altogether to be despised, as by it mankind has been able to utilise a vast quantity of food which would otherwise have been wasted. A good example of food preserved in this way is Charqui, or South-American dried beef, which possesses considemble nutritive value, as is shown by the fact of its having been the staple article of food among the labouring populations in the tropical regions of South America for many years. The attempts made to introduce Charqui into this country have not met with any encouragement, but it is possible that it might be made an adjunct to our food supply. One of the great difficulties attending desic- cation is that animal matter preserved by its means loses its flavour, and becomes tough and indigestible; the fat also becomes rancid, and in damp weather the meat absorbs moisture, and is liable to turn mouldy and sour. To a certain extent, this obstacle, is overcome by mixing absorbent substances with fatty food, as in " pemmican," where sugar and spice are mixed with dry powdered meat. Meat biscuits, such as those now supplied by wholesale manufac- turers, are made on the same principle of fari- naceous meal tvbsorbing meat essences. The first recorded patent in this country for the preservation of vegetables by desiccation was granted in 1780 to John Graefor, who dipped the vegf;ta>)lf!s in boiling salt and water, and then dried them. In November, 1850, a patent was V * obtained for drying and forcibly compressing vegetables, so that they were reduced to one- seventh their original size; a cubic yard thus contained rations for 16,000 men. The French have been very successful in this line of pre- servation, but many English houses now pro- duce vegetables in the form of chips or of com- pressed cakes. From America dried vegetables are being imported at Is. 6d. a pound, half an ounce being sufficient for adding to a pint of soup. " Considering," says one writer, the high price charged by greengrocers for vegetables, and the waste in utilising them in almost every household, housekeepers, even among the working classes, would do well to give their attention to these dried vegetables, and at least give them a trial. When soaked and well boiled they will be found not only economical in their use, but excellent in soups, and even in eating with meat in lieu of ordinary fresh vegetables. The process of drj'ing elimi- nates little else but the water, and takes from them little, if any, of their flavour." Perhaps the reader remembers that compressed vege- tables, together with dried meat, were largely consumed in the Crimea by the English and French armies, and that vast quantities of com- pressed vegetables were supplied to the British troops during the Ashantee campaign. In soup squares or tablets we have a form of preserved food prepared partly by the desiccat- ing method. Most of them are compressed, but some are in the form of grains or flour, being composed of various substances, combined with powdered meat or meat extracts. One house offers an almost endless variety of soup squares, such as carrot, pea, chestnut, mulligatawny, &c.; also large cubes called " Gargantua," after the mythical giant celebrated by Rabelais, one of which, dissolved in three pints of water, makes a most delicious pot-pourri of four poimds' weight of nutritious food. The second method, the preservation of food by refrigeration, will be found explained in a succeeding article {see Refrigeration, Food Preserved by). On the preservation of meat by the use of chemical agents, or antiseptics, much ingenuity has been expended by scientific men. The best known antiseptic is chloride of sodium, or conmion salt, which has been employed for the preservation of animal substances from a very early period. It is likely always to remain in use, either simply or in conjunction with an after-process of drying or smoking, or with both combined. The fact is that many substances treated with common salt are extremely tasty and palatable—ham and bacon, for example— and the cost of the process is exceedingly trifling. It should be remembered, howeter, that salt by itself is only a temporary preserva- tive agent, and is diotetically to be objected to on the ground that i^, extracts the soluble con- 8titu;.ntt. of meat, makes it hard and indiges- tible, and thus deprives it of its stimulating and nutritive constituents. From the eating of large quantities of salt meat without the jiroper quantity of vegetables to counteract its effects, it is well known that scorbutic diseases ensue; Besides common salt, other saline substancer, have been employed for the preservation of