ROE ( 764 ) ROE move it about occasionally until it is quito dry and warm. Mix a small tea-cupful of fresh yoast, or two ounces of German yeast with lialf a pint of lukewarm milk, stir this into a quarter of a pound of the flour, and set it to rise. When it is well risen put the pound and a half of flour remaining into a separate bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt, six ounces of sifted sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and an ounce of pomided bitter almonds; when these are thoroughly mixed, add twelve well-beaten eggs, and as nmch lukewarm milk as will form a thin dough. This will be about half a pint. Dissolve a Ijound of butter, and stir it in also, then add the sponge dough. Beat all briskly together for twenty minutes, then add four "ounces of picked and dried currants, eight ounces of stoned raisins, and two ounces of almonds cut small. Butter a plain mould rather thickly, sprinkle chopped almonds over it, and shake oif all that will not adhere. HaK All the mould with the dough, set it in a warm place to rise, and then bake in a moderate oven. If liked, lialf the quantity may be used, and then nine eggs will be required. Time to bake, an houi- and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Roe Sauce for Pish.—Take the soft roes of any tish previously boiled or fried, clear away the skin, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Mix with them a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, a dessert- spoonful of anchovy sauce or walnut pickle, a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Rub the mixture till smooth, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter. If preferred, a table-spoonful of plain vinegar may be substituted for the chilli vinegar, and a spoonful of ketchup for the anchovy or pickle. Or bruise the boiled roes as before, and beat up with them the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of fennel and another of parsley, both scalded and chopped, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the preparation into melted butter. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufl&cient for five or six persons. Roebuck.—^The roebuck or common roe is of a reddish brown colour, and though small is elegant in shape, and nimble. Plainly dressed it is not worth much, but when marinaded, larded, or jugged, it is very good. The roc- buck has been long extinct in England, but is stiU found in the Highlands of Scotland. It is also found generally throughout continental Europe, and some parts of Asia. In Louisiana the roebuck was once very common, and was larger than that of Europe. The flesh has been compared in flavour to mutton. Roebuck, Braised.—Saw the shank and spine bones from a haunch of roebuck, pare away the skin from the upper part of the leg and the loin, and lard these bare portions closely and evenly with strips of bacon about six inches long and a quarter of an inch thick. These lardons may be seasoned with pepper, salt, and powdered herbs. Place the haunch in a braising-pan, pour over it as much stock as will cover it, and add two carrots, three onions, two turnips, four or five outer sticks of ::elery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, two or three cloves, and half a tca-spoonf;il of peppercorns. Set the braisiero over a gentle flro, lot its contents simmer very softly, and baste frequently till the moat is done enough. Drain it, and put it in the oven for a short time. Strain the liquor, and boil it down till thick. Baste the haunch with this until it has a bright glazed appearance, and serve as hot as possible. Garnish the dish with glazed carrotrt and onions. Time, three to four hours. Pro- bable cost, Is. 4d. to 28. i^er pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Roebuck, Cutlets of.—Divide a neck of roebuck into cutlets, trim them neatly, flatten with a cutlet bat, and season with pepper and salt. Dip the cutlets first into clarified butter, and afterwards into bread-crumbs. Butter the bars of the gridiron, and broil the cutlets over a gentle fire, turning them frequently to pre- serve the gi-avy. Serve with a little piquant sauce poured round them. Time to broil the cutlets, ten to twelve minutes. Roebuck, Haricot of.—A shoulder or a neck of roebuck may be dressed thus. If the neck is chosen, divide it into thick cut- lets ; or if the shoulder, cut the meat off in pieces not larger than an egg. Fry these in butter until browned, take up the meat, mix with the fat as much flour as will make a stiff paste, beat it with the back of a wooden spoon till it is smoothly and lightly coloured, and then moisten it gradually with as much stock as will cover the roebuck. Add pepper and salt, together with thi-ee or four carrots, two turnips, and four onions, cut into neat shapes not larger than a small walnut. Let the liquor boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer very softly until done enough. Be very careful to remove the scum and fat as it rises. Strain the sauce into a small stewpan, and boil it down until it is sufficiently thick to coat the spoon. Put with it two table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly and a glass of port. Trim the pieces of meat, and heat them in it, add the vegetables, and serve all on one dish very hot. Time, about two hours. Probable cost, roebuck. Is. 4d. to 28. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Roebuck, Haunch of. Marinaded. —Prepare a marinade sufficiently deep to cover the surface of the haunch, the ingredients being in the following proportions: — With a pint of vinegar put a quart of water, two onions finely minced, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a little salt, a sliced carrot, three or four sticks of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil all together for half an hour, strain, and put into a pan large enough to hold the roebuck. Saw the shank and spine bones from the haunch, pare away the skin from the upper part of the leg and along the loin, and lard those bare places closely and evenly with tliin strips of bacon. Put the haunch in the mari- nade for a week. Take it up, spit, and roast before a clear fire, being careful to baste con- stantly. Unless this is done the meat will bo very dry. Take it up, brush it over with molted glaze, and serve \ery hot. The dish should