TBO TBO ( 996 ) bag upon the fish, with half a pound or more of good butter broken into pieces. Cover the dish closely, and put it into a gentle oven. Wh/ju the fish are done enough, lift out the bag of seasoning, and set the trout in a cool airy place till wanted. Time to bake, an houi- and a half. Trout, Salmon.—This, called also the sea trout, appears to form a connecting-link between the salmon and the common trout. It, like the salmon, frequents both the sea and rivers, ascending the latter to spawn. It is for the most part found in the rivers of moun- tainous countries, and is common in Wales and the lake district of England. It seldom exceeds a foot in length, and is a very delicious fish. Trout, Sauces for.—Any of the follow- ing sauces may be served with boiled trout: —Plain melted butter, anchovy sauce, shrimp stiuce, parsley sauce, Dutch sauce, ravigote sauce, or a sauce prepared thus:—Boil half a pint of melted butter with two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Mix the yolk of an egg with another table-spoonful of cream, and stir the thickening into the sauce, first letting it cool for one minute; add the juice of a lemon and a pinch of salt, and stir the sauce over the fire until it is on the point of boiling. Lift it off, and stir into it an oimce of fresh butter until it is dissolved. Serve the sauce in a tureen or poured over the fish. Or bone and skin an anchovy, and pound the flesh in a mortar with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tablcj- spoonf ul of chopped chives, or a minced shallot, a table-spoonful of capers, a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. When the mixture is quite smooth, stir it into a pint of the liquor in which the fish was boUed. Let it boil a minute or two, and send it to table in a tm-een. Fried trout is very good served cold and accompanied by salad sauce. Trout, Souchet.—Clean and empty five or six small trout, and dry them well. Cut four parsley roots into strips an inch long and very narrow, and boiL these in a pint and a half of water, together with a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of finely-scraped horseradish. In five minutes throw in a handful of small sprigs of parsley. Let the water boil up again, put in the trout, draw the pan back imme- diately, and simmer the fish gently until done enough. Serve the fish in a deep dish with the water, parsley, &c., and send slices of thin brown bread and butter to table with it. Time to boil the fish, ten or twelve minutes. Pro- bable cost, uncertain, trout being seldom offered for sale. Suflicient for five or six persons. Trout, Stewed.—Take two moderate- sized trout, empty, wash, and dry them well. Put them in a stewpan, and pour over them as much stock as will barely cover them, and a glassful of port or claret, then add a small onion finely minced, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-loaf, two cloves, a pinch of powdered mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer very gently until the fish are done enough. Lift them out carefully, and put them on a hot diah. Strain the gravy. thicken it with a tea-spoonful of brown thicken- ing or with a little flour and butter, stir it over the fire till it coats the spoon, pour it over the fish, and servo very hot. Time to stew the fisli, half an hour to three-quarters, according to size. Sufficient for two peraona. Trout, Stewed (another way).—Empty, clean, and dry one large, or two moderate-sized, trout, and partially fry it in hot butter till it is lightly browned. Pour over it as much good stock as will barely cover it, and add a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a roll of thin lemon-rind, a finely-minced shiillot, and a little jjepper and salt. Let it simmer very gently until done enough. Place it on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thicken- ing, boil it till of the proper consistency, and strain it over the fish. A glassful of port or claret or a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice may be added or not. Time to simmer the fish, half an hour to three-quarters, according to size. Suflicient for two persons. Trout Stewed in Wine. — Empty, clean, and diy two or three fresh trout; put them in a stewpan, pom- over them equal parts of good gravy and either claret, port, or madeira, and add a moderate-sized onion, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, six allspice, two cloves, and a little salt. Let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up carefully, strain the gravy, thicken it with brown thickening, and flavom- with a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice or chilli vinegar, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, and a des- sert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Strain the sauce over the flsh, and serve very hot. Time to simmer, half an hour to three-quarters, according to the thickness of the fish. Suf- ficient for a small dish. Trout, Wayside Inn.—Clean and empty the trout, dry them, and boil them imtil done enough. Lift them out carefully so as not to break them, put them upon a hot dish without a napkin, and cover them entirely with rich melted butter. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of chopped gherkins over the sauce, and garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon. Time to simmer the fish, ten to twenty minutes, according to size. Trout, with Genoese Sauce.—Empty, clean, and dry two moderate-sized fresh trout, and put them into a kettle of boiling water with a table-spoonful of salt and a table- spoonful of vinegar. Boil the fish gently until they are done enough, then lift them up carefully, and pom- over them some sauce pre- pared as follows:—Thicken a pint of good stock Avith a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening, and boil it till it is smooth and coats the spoon. Put with it a glassful of claret or port, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, the eighth of a nutmeg gi-atcd, a small lump of sugar, and pepper and salt if required. Stir the sauce over the fire for five or six minutes, take it ofi^, aiul stir into it a piece of fi-esh butter the size of a walnut until it is dissolved. Pour the saurc over Iho trout, and servo inunediaUny.