( 1076 ) VEG VEL vogotablos. To tho cliargo of c;ruolty Lrouglit iif^ainst tlio practice of killiufj: iminmla for food, it has hcoii answered, that tho plan of Nature contemplates such cruelty—if cruelty it be— and makes it impossible 'to avoid it; that tho microscope has shown us that oven in taking a draught of water wo may deprive a multitude of beings of life ; and tliat, on tho other liand, tho system of roaring cattle for tho butcher— since the cattle would otherwise not bo reared at all—really adds very largely to tho sum of happy animal existence. It is not disputed that there is a liability to disease from the use of unwholesome meat; but then vegetables as ■well as animals are subject to disease; and the reasoning which would drive us from the use of animal food because it is diseased would really cut us off from food altogether.— Chambers. The following remarks on this subject are from the pen of the late Dr. Lankester:—"I am," he says, " an advocate for a mixed diet for man, and I would particularly draw your attention to a statement that is often made, that it is not necessary to partake of animal food at all. Persons who argue thus put forth as a first ground the immorality of the act, and the impropriety and wickedness of taking away life at all. This is surely an absurd assumption; for the Greater has made a certain numlaer of creatures that could not live upon vegetable food, and they naturally prey upon the lower animals which feed on the grass and the herbs of the field. The lion and tiger exist by prey: and it appears to me that man has a perfect right, -without being charged with immorality or impropriety, to take the lives of the lower animals for his food. Then anatomical argu- ments are adduced against animal food. It is said that man in his structure is better adapted for vegetable than animal food. I must here again join issue, for I believe I can show from his structure that man is more adapted for a mixed diet than for either vegetable or animal food alone. Look at the jaws and teeth of a carnivorous creature—a tiger, for example. The jaws are so constructed that they will only move up and down like a pair of scissors. Ob- serve also his sharp-pointed carnivorous teeth, especially his great canine tseth. They are in- tended for holding and cutting up living food. Now look at the jaws of a horse. His lower jaw is quite movable from side to side. Instead of pointed teeth they are flat, and every ar- rangement is made for grinding, not cutting, the food; and this is the character of the mouth of a herbivorous animal. If, however, we take the skull of a man, we find he has certain teeth —canine teeth—which, like those of lions and tigers, have the power of cutting, but he has also flat teeth, and the power of moving his lower jaw laterally, and can bring these flat teeth across each other for the purpose of grind- ing his food; so that you see he is evidently provided with instruments to enable him to prepare for his digestion both vegetable and animal food. I might prolong this argument by showing you the complicated structure of tho stomach of the sheep and the ox, and, com- paring this with the stomach of the lion, point to the fact that the human stomach has neither tho complicated structui-o of tlio one nor the simplicity of the other. There ai-e many other points of structure in wliich man seems to stand b(!tween those two grou])8 of animaLs—thi^ her- bivorous on the one side, and tlie caniivorous on the other—which would seem to indicate his adaptation for taking botli kinds of food. " But whatever may bo tho arguments of the vegetarians, they do not practically carrv out their doctrines, for they partake of consideraljle quantities of animal food. They take milk, and butter, and cheese, and eggs. A well-known authority states that he has taken a vegetarian cookery book, and calculated the quantity of milk, butter, and eggs, employed in their food, and found that, if a vegetarian family lived in accordance with the rules of this book, each member would consume half an ounce more animal food a day than he did in his own family —and he was no vegetarian. So that you see people are deceiving themselves who enforce such a doctrine as this. " On the other hand, there are some persons who advocate a diet of purely animal food. I had a book sent me the other day, written by a gentleman at Liverpool, who states that he has discovered that the panacea for all human evils is the taking of animal food alone; and he takes the opportunity of stating that he is looking for some young lady of similar prin- ciples and practice who wiU link her fortunes with his own, and establish a family of cami- vorians. " There is no question that man may live on a purely vegetable diet; but the question is as to whether that kind of diet is best for the community. We find in the history of man that those races who have paiiaken of animal food are the most vigorous, the most moral, and the most intellectual races of mankind. We find that the ancient Jews, although they had certain sanitary regulations in regard to killing and eating animals, partook largely of meat, and were amongst the most vigorous people of their day. We find in modem Europe that those nations who take the most animal food are the strongest; and amongst ourselves it is just in proportion as we give our labourers animal food, or wages to procure it, that they are stronger and better able to do their work. It is vain for a man to expect to get through intellectual or physical labour without an abun- dant supply of the material of thought and of physical power, and animal food is one of the readiest means of affording this supply." Velout6 Sauce in small quantities. —Cut up the remains of a roast fowl, and take one or two bacon-bones or a couple of ounces of lean ham. Butter a saucepan, put in the bones, &c., w4th a quarter of a pound of veal, and add a small carrot, a small onion, one or two pepper- corns, and a little salt and grated nutmeg. Pour over the ingredients as much water as will cover them, and let them simmer very gently till tho liquor is strong and good. Strain it, skim well, and free it entirely from fat. Boil it quickly for a short time, thicken with a small spoon- ful of white thickening, let it simmer by the side of the fire till it has thrown uj) its grease, and it will be ready for use. A spoonful of gelatine