VEA ( 1031 ) VEA should be put into the pan with it, and it should bo basted frequently. If it is preserved in pickle it will keep good for some time. Time to simmer the veal, three to four hours. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of, Ragoiit of—Take off the under bone, and put the veal into a stewpan with as much boiling stock as will cover it. Let the liquor boil up, then add a large carrot sliced, three onions, a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, the thin rind of a lemon, and a little pepper and salt. Skim the gravy, and simmer it gently until the veal is quite tender. Thicken the gravy till it is of the consistency of sauce, and stir into it the strained juice of a small lemon and a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the veal into a dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with savoury forcemeat-balls and cut lemon. Time to simmer the veal, about two hours. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd.per pound. Veal, Breast of, B,agout of (another way).—Take about four pounds of the breast of veal. Divide this into pieces convenient for serving, and fry them to a light brown in hot fat. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, cover with stock made from bones, and put with them a large onion stuck with two cloves, half a blade of mace, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a small roll of thin lemon-rind, five or six bruised allspice, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently till the veal is tender. Strain a pint of the gravy, or more if required, into a separate saucepan, and put the first one by the side of the fire that the meat may keep hot. Thicken the gravy with brown thicken- ing, and fiavour with a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and half a wine-glass of light wine. Taste it, add a little more pepper and salt if required, and let it boil up once. Put the veal into a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. A little fried bacon should accompany this dish, and forcemeat balls may be added or not. Time to simmer the veal, one hour and a half, or two hours if thick. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. TEAL, BREAST jf, IMASTED, TO i w Veal, Breast of. Roasted—If the sweet- bread is retained, skewer it to the back. Cover the joint with the caul, or, wanting this, with a piece of buttered paper. Put it down to a clear fire at a moderate distance from it, and baste liberally till done enough. When it has been down about an hour and a half, remove the caul, flour the joint, and let it brown. Serve on a hot dish with meltud butter poured over. Garnish with a cut lem(m, and send boiled bacon to V".ble with it. If liked, forcemeat balls may bo served with the veal, and mushroom sauce sent to table with it. Time to roast the breast, two to two and a half hours, or twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, veal, 9d. or lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of. Roasted, To Carve. —The breast of veal should bo first separated into two parts—it rightly consists of twp-— the rib-bones and the gristly brisket. This is done by cutting in the direction of the lines 1, 2. The gristly part being divided into parts in the direction 3, 4, may be offered to those who prefer it—in a breast of veal stewed these are particularly tender and inviting. The ribs are to be separated in the direction 5, 6; and with a part of the breast, a slice of the sweetbread cut across the middle. Veal, Breast of, RoUed.—Trim a breast of veal, and remove all the bones and tendons. If requested, the butcher will perform this opera- tion, which should be done the day before the veal is to be dressed, so that the bones may be stewed for gravy (see Veal, Gravy for). Spread a thin layer of forcemeat over the inside of the breast, roll it up very tightly, and bind it firmly with tape. Tie it in a cloth. Put a plate at the bottom of the stewpan, lay the veal into it, and cover with cold water. Bring the liqixor to the boU, skim it, and simmer gently for three hours. When done enough, take oft' the cloth, put the veal on a dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with cut lemon, fried bacon, and force- meat balls, and it will be ready for serving. If liked, two pounded anchovies, a little blanched and chopped parsley, and the boiled livers of two fowls may be added to the gravy. Veal thus prepared may be baked or roasted as well as boiled. Time, three houi's from the time the water boils. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Probable cost, veal, lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of, Rolled and Braised. —Bone a breast of veal, spread forcemeat upon it, and roU it as in the last recipe. Bind securely with tape, and lay slices of fat bacon aU round it. Lay it in a stewpan just large enough to contain it, and add a carrot, an onion stuck with cloves, a few peppercorns, half a blade of mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over it from half to three-quarters of a pint of stock, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer very gently over a slow fire for three hours. Baste frequently ynth its liquor. Take up the veal, lay it on a dish, and put it in the oven. Strain the liquor, and boil quickly till it begins to thicken. Brush the veal over with it two or three times, then place it on a dish, garnish with forcemeat balls, rashers of bacon, or dressed vegetables, and send it to table with any of the foUowiag sauces:—White sauce, Italian sauce, melted butter, parsley sauce, mushroom sauce, &c. Time to simmer the veal, three hours. Veal, Breast of. Stewed in White Sauce.—Take a piece of the breast of veal weighing about three pounds, and cut it into neat pieces convenient for serving. Put these into a stewpan with a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-loaf, two shallots, or f om- young