PEA PEA ( 622 ) pint of bmndy, and fill up tho glasses with the Byrup. Cork und seal the jars, and store in a cool dry plaoo. Exainino tho jars occasionally, and as the fruit absorbs tho brandy add a little more. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to Gd. each. Peaches Preserved Whole. —This preserve is best made in the early part of Octo- ber. Gather tho peaches before they are fully ripe, wipe the down from thorn, put them into a deep pan, pour boiling water over them, cover them over, and let them remain near the tii-e, though not upon it, for an hour; then take out the poaches, put them in a bowl of cold water, and in a quarter of an hour take off the skins, push out the stones, and weigh the fruit. Take an equal weight of loaf sugar, dip each lump separately into water, put it into a preserx-ing-pan, and then boil the moistened sugar gently until you have a clear syrup. Put the peaches in carefully with the blanched kernels, let them simmer for six minutes, then lift them out with a skimmer, put them into a deep dish, and pour the boiling syrup over them. The next day di'ain the syrup from them, let it boU for four minutes, and pour it again over the fruit: repeat this process every day for a week. On the eighth day boil up the syrup as usual, and put the peaches into it. Let them boil quickly for eight or ten minutes, but do not allow them to break; lift them out carefully one by one, put them into jars, place an equal portion of the kernels in each jar, and fill it up with the syrup. In two or three hours tie down securely with paper brushed over with the white of an egg, and store in a cool drj' place. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches Preserved Whole (another way).—Take peaches which are perfectly sound and not overripe, wipe off the bloom, and put them into a deep jar; pour boiling water over them, throw a cloth over the bowl to keep in the steam, and let them remain until the water is nearly cold. Lift them carefully out of the water, drain, and peel them. Place a single layer of the fruit at the bottom of a deep earthenware jar, cover the peaches thickly with finely-powdered and sifted sugar, and place another layer of sugar and fruit upon the top of the last; repeat imtil the jar is full, being careful that the sugar is strewn very thickly over the fruit, and that the topmost layer is composed of sugar. Close the jar im- mediately, and fasten it securely, either with a large cork and resin, or with bladder, and keep the fruit in a dark, cool, dry place. Time, an hour to soak the peaches. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches, Vol-au-vent of.—Take as much fine puff paste as is required for the size of a vol-au-vcnt. It should be the exact size and shape of the inside of the dish on which it 'is intfindcd to be served. EoU it out to the thickness of an inch and a quarter, and stamp the cover on the top accord- ing to the directions given for a vol-au-vent. {Sec Vol-au-vent.) Bake in a brisk oven. If t]u\ pastry has been properly made it will rise in , the oven until it is about five inches in height; when it has done so, and is lightly coloured, take it out, remove the lid, and scoop out tho inside. Have as many peaches as will bo required to fill the empty space, already cut into luilves and stewed in syrup until they are tender, but unbroken. Put them into the vol- au-vent, boil the syrup quickly for a few minutes until it is very thick, pour it upon the peaches, and serve the vol-au-vent on a neatly, folded napkin. Time to bake a moderate-siy^ed vol-au-vent—say one made with three-quarters of a pound of puff paste—about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peacock.— This beautiful and majestic bird has been introduced on the table both by the ancients and the modems, but chiefly as a showy and ornamental dish, the bird being pre- served in some of its handsome plumage. The flesh is coarse and ill-coloured. Peafowl.—The peafowl is generally to be had during the first six months of the year, and when young and well kept it tastes not imlike pheasant. It requires to be larded on the breast and legs, as the flesh is rather dry. When the cock is served, some of the feathers of the tail should be preserved and stuck into the bird before it is sent to table, and when this is neatly done it presents an ex- cellent appearance. The hen is, however, much more frequently served than the cock. Peafowl, Larded and Roasted.— Choose a young bird, lard it closely over the breast and legs, fill it with a good veal force- meat—but the forcemeat may be omitted— truss it firmly, and roast before a clear fire for an hour or an hour and a half, ac- cording to the size of the bird. When done enough, take off the buttered paper which was round the head {see Peafowl, Trussed), trim the feathers, glaze the larding, and aewe the bird on a hot dish, with a little clear brown gravy under it. Garnish the dish with watercresses, and send bread-sauce to table in a tureen. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Peafowl, Trussed.—Peafowls should be trussed in the same way as pheasants, except- ing that the head should be left attached to the skin of the breast implucked. It should be carefully covered with buttered paper, and fastened under the wing. When the bird is sufficiently cooked, and before it is dished, the paper should be removed and the plumage trimmed. Pear.—The pear is very wholesome wh.-'n ripe, but is not so when green. It is then, however, fit for stewing. The best pears for baking purposes are rather austere than sweet; by cooking, part of the acid is changed into sugar. P(>ars m;iy be proservod in the samo way as apples; they are also ]iarod and dried in an oven, by which means th(>y will ]<oo]^ for years. This" jnothod of jiresorvation is much followed in France. Several h\mdT?«i kinds of I pears are cultivated in the orchards of Europe.