( CIO ) POR POR of the moiit, friendly reader, your oracle cau- tions you to buy no leg of pork which is slit at the knuckle. If pork ig not done enough, nothing is jnore disagreeable; if too much, it not only loses its colour und flavour, but its substance becomes soft like a jelly. It must never appear at table without a good peas pud- ding, and, if you plwise, parsnips or carrots, turnips and greens, or mashed jjotatoes. Obs.: liomember not to forget the mustard-pot." Pork Pies.—Pork pies are generally made of tlie trimmings taken from a hog when it is cut up. Make and shape the pies according to the directions given in the foliow'ing re- cipe, and remem^Jer that the pies must be moulded while the paste is wai-m, and that they are much more easily made with a mould than without one. As a mould is not always at hand, those who are not particularly ex- perienced in the work (and it requires skill) may mould the pie round a jelly-pot or bottle, which has been made warm bj- being immersed I for some time in warm water. Cut the meat use. Remember always to wash the hands in cold water the last thing before touching the meat. The time required for the moat to lie in salt depends upon taste. If it is wished that it should bo only modei-atoly salted, the hand and belly may remain in the pan four days, and a leg weighing six pounds live or six days. Pork, Pickled (another way).—Every part of the pig which is thin and streaky may be converted into pickled pork, but the fillet and breasts are the portions best suited for this purpose. Cut the meat into pieces, and lay these at the bottom of an earthen pan on a layer of crushed salt, packing them as closely as pos- sible. Cover with a mixture of fifteen parts of salt and one of saltpetre. Lay on the top a cloth folded in four, and above the cloth a round board bearing several heavy stones. If the pork is wanted for immediate use, remove it at the end of five or six days; but if it is wished to preserve it for a considerable time, let it remain longer in salt. Pork, Pickled, Boiled.—If the pork be very salt, let it soak for an hour before it is dressed. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim the liquid carefully, draw the pan to the side, and let the meat simmer very gently until it is done enough. If boiled quickly it will not be good. Pickled pork is generally served as an accompaniment to fowls or other white meats. If under-dressed, pickled pork is very indi- gestible. Thick pieces will require longer boil- ing than thin ones; as a general rule, half an hour per pound from the time the water boils. Pork, Pickled, Dressed (Dr. Kitchiner's observations on).—" Pickled pork takes more time than any other meat. If you buy your pork ready salted, ask how many days it has been in salt; if many, it will require to be soaked in water for six hours before you dress it. When you cook it, wash and scrape it as clean as pos- sible ; when delicately dressed, it is a favourite dish with almost everybody. Take care it does not boU fast; if it does, the knuckle will break to pieces before the thick part of the meat is warm through; a leg of seven pounds takes three hours and a half very slow simmering. Skim your pot very carefully, and when you take the meat out of the boUer, scrape it clean. Some sagacious cooks (who remember to how many more Nature has given eyes than she has given tongues and brains), when pork is boiled, score it in diamonds, and take out every other square, and thus present a retainer to the eye to plead for them to the palate; but this is pleasing the eye at the expense of the palate. A leg of nice pork nicely salted and nicely boiled is as nice a cold relish as cold ham, espe- cially if, instead of cutting into the middle ■when hot, and so letting out its juices, you cut it at the knuckle; slices broiled are a good lun- cheon or supper. Some persons who sell pork ready salted have a silly trick of cutting the knuckle in two—we suppose that this is done to save their salt—but it lets all the grsivy out of the leg; and unless you boil your pork merely for the sake of the pot-liquor, which in this case receives all the goodness and strength into pieces the size of a small nut, and keep the meat and fat separate. Season the whole vnth. pepper and salt, half a dozen young sage-leaves finely shred; or a tea-spoonful of dried and powdered sage, one ounce of salt, two and a quarter ounces of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, may be allowed for a pie containing three pounds of meat. Pack the fat and lean closely into the pie in alternate layers until it is filled. Put on the cover, press and pinch the edges, and ornament according to taste. Brush, over with well-beaten egg, and bake in a slow oven, as the meat is solid and requires to be cooked through. Neither water nor bone should be put into pork pies, and the outside pieces will be hard unless they are cut small and pressed closely together. The bones and trim- mings of the pork may be stewed to make gravy, which should be boiled until it will jelly when cold, and when this has been nicely flavoured, a little may be poured into the pie after it is baked through an opening made in the top. When pies are made small they require a quicker oven than large ones. Time to bake, about two hours for a pie containing three pounds. Probable cost, 3s. {See also Raised Pies.) Pork Pies, Pastry for.—Put a quarter of a pound of finely-shred beef suet—or five ounces of lard, or a quarter of a pound of mutton suet—and an ounce of fresh butter into a sauce- pan with half a pint of boiling water and a pinch of salt. Stir the mixture until the fat is dissolved, and pour it boiling hot into a pound and a half of flour. Knead well to a stiflt paste, and add a little more warm water if required. Shape the dough, and got it into the oven while it is warm. If the pie is to be baked in a mould, lay a piece of the proper shape in the bottom. Press long pieces into the sides, and fasten these to the top and the bottom with white of egg. If a mould is not to be used, cut oft' as much pastry as will nrnkf) the cover, and wrap it in a cloth to keep it warm. Mould the rest with both hands into the sh.ape of a cone, and make the sides smooth and firm. Press the top down vnih. the knuckles of the right hand, and with the