( 1100 ) WAL Wall of Potatoes (to put round a dish in the centre of wliich a fricassee is to bo served). —lioil as many potatoes as may ho required, and mash tlioni sniootlily with butter. I'ut tliom round tho dish upon which they arc to bo served, and with tho bowls of two spoons mould them to tho shape of a wall, two inches and a half "wido at the base, two inches and a half high, and tapered towards the top. Make this wall quite smooth, brush over with beaten egg, and put it in the oven till it is lightly browned all over and quite hot. Pour tho fricassee into the centre, and serve. Walnut.—The walnut is now cultivated generally throughout Europe. " On the Con- tinent,'" says Selby in his " History of Forest Trees," " the fruit is in great demand, and indeed becomes in many parts almost one of the necessaries of life. It constitutes a con- siderable portion of the food of the inhabitants of certain districts, and also affords an oil little inferior when first drawn to that of the olive, for which in many parts of France it is the substitute in all culinary matters. The worst feature about the oil is that it soon turns rancid. WALKXriS. The refuse matter, after the oil is extracted, is oaten in Switzerland by poor people, under the name of pain amer. The nuts are used in various ways and at various stages of theii' growth. When young and green they make an excellent and well-known pickle, as well as a savoury ketchup, and a liqueur is also made from them in this state. Before they are fully ripe, and whilst the kernel is yet soft, walnuts ore eaten in France cn cerneaux—B. way of pre- paring them with a seasoning of salt, pepper, vinegar, and shallots. About the end of Sep- tember or the beginning of October they are fully ripe, and are then eaten in great quan- tities, being both wholesome and easy of di- gestion, so long as they remain fresh and part freely from the skin which envelops the kernel." Walnut Jam.—Take fifty walnuts in which the shell has not begun to form, pnck them all over, and boil in water till they are quite soft. Strain the water o£F, put a clovo in each, and strew over them two ounces of bruised ginger. Make a syrup of half a pint of water to two and a half pounds of coarso brown sugar, stirring on the fire till all ia melted; then put in tho walnuts, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring to prevent them bum- ing. This jam forms an excellent htxative, and may be elevated to the position of a pleasant domestic medicine. Walnut Salad.—Gather the young wal- nuts when the nut is just formed, and when they can be pierced easily with a jiin. Par© them down to tlio kernels, put them into a salad- bowl, pour a little good sftlad sauce over them, toss them lightly in it, and serve immediately. This salad, though very agreeable, can only be had in places where walnuts grow abim- dantly. Walnut Vinegar.—The vinegar which covers pickled walnuts is useful for flavouring tho gravy used for hashes of cold meat. It ia also excellent when used as a pickle. Walnuts, Pickled.—Scald the walnuts, which must be used for pickling before they have a hard shell. This scalding will enable you easily to rub off the skin. Put them into a brine of salt and water strong enough to float an egg. Let them stand three days, then shift them into fresh brine, and let them soak three days longer. Now shift them once more into fresh brine, and let them soak four days. They are then fit for the jar. Have ready prepared' equal parts of black pepper, Jamaica pepper, allspice, and ginger; a quarter of a pint of cloves, the same quantity of mace, and a pint and a half of white mustard-seed. Beat these ingredients together in a mortar, but do not pound them fine. Put the walnuts into the jar by layers, and over each kyer strew some of the mixed seasoning. Then have ready some vinegar boiled with sliced horseradish and ginger, and cover tjje walnuts with it. When quite cold, cork and bladdei- the jar. This pickle is much improved by the addition of a little garhc and tarragon boiled with the A-inegar. Walnuts, Pickled (to be made from the beginning to the middle of July).—Be very particular to gather the green walnuts when they are in a proper state for pickling—neither too soon nor too late. If they are too yoimg, they will dissolve in the pickle; if too old, they will resist the action of the vinegar. They ought to be taken before the shells have begun to form; and the test of their fitness is that a large pin can, without difficulty, be pushed through them in everv direction. If once the shell can be felt they are no longer fit for pickling. Wipe the walnuts sepai-ately with a coarse cloth, put them into an earthen pan, and pour upon them a strong brine that will float a fresh egg. This brine may bo made by boilmg six ounces of salt with each quart of >yater It should be skimmed carefully, and allowed to get cold before being put to tho walnuts. Lay a tliin board upon tlie walnuts to keep them under the bi-ine. Turn them about ^nth a wooden spoon every day, and let them remam