SOD SOXi fhilk, three eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and eight ounces of currants. Beat the whole well and lightly together ; then strew over it a very- small tea-spoonful of finely-powdered carbon- ate of soda. Beat the cake again for three or four minutes, and then bake it from one hour to an hour and a half. Soda Cream {see Cream, Soda). Soda Scones.—Make a stiff paste with a pound of flour, a quarter of an ounce of car- bonate of soda, and as much buttermilk as is required. Roll this out to the thickness of half an inch, cut it into small three-cornered pieces, and bake these on a girdle over a clear fire. When done enough, cut the scones open, butter them with fresh butter, and serve hot. If more convenient, milk a day old may be substituted for the buttermilk. Soda Water {see Summer Beverages). Soda Water, Bottled.—Take a sufficient number of soda-water bottles, and fill them with clear water; fit corks to them, then set them down. Lift them one by one, and add half a drachm of carbonate of soda and ten or twelve drops of sulphuric acid. Cork and wire the bottles immediately. Soda water should always be kept in a cool place, with the necks of the bottles downwards. Soda Water, Milk and.—Heat nearly to boiling a tea-cupful of milk, and dissolve in it a tea-spoonful of refined sugar; put it into a large tumbler, and pour over it two- thirds of a bottle of soda water. This is an excellent mode of taking milk when the stomach is charged with acid, and consequently apt to feel oppressed by milk alone. Sole.—The sole holds a prominent position amongst flat fish, being second to the turbot THE SOLE. only in excellence. It is highly esteemed, and deservedly so, as its flesh is firm and delicate. It is caught in groat abundance all the year round, and may therefore be almost always obf-rr- i in cr')..fl condition. Solos are best ' ' Dal-hei they maybe kept until the second day without being materially spoiled. In fishing towns they may frequently be bought alive, then killed, and fried immediately. They are then in perfection. The skin of the back is sometimes black and sometimes white, the colour varying with the nature of the ground on which the fish feeds. Soles vary in size, from the little fish called tongues or slips to large fish weighing eight or nine pounds per pair. Those in roe are rather insipid in flavour. They are best fiUeted. Very large fish may be boiled and served like turbot, which they somewhat resemble in flavour. Soles may be served in a variety of ways, but are best when fried. To prepare them, scale and gut them, and take the skin off the back; wash them well, and be careful to take out the roe; wash it, and return it to its place, pressing it down upon the bone; trim the fins neatly, dr\' the fish perfectly, wrap it in a soft cloth, and leave it in a cool place to stiffen till wanted. When practicable, soles should be cleaned a couple of hours before they are dressed. Sole (a la Colbert^.—Take a thick sole^ scale it, draw off the dark skin, and clean it; with a sharp knife loosen the flesh from the bone on one side, without taking it off; make an incision on both sides of the bone down the length of the fish, and with the handle of a knife break it in one or two places, so that when the fish is done enough the bone may be removed without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Replace the flesh on the bone where it has been disturbed; egg and bread-crumb the fish, let it stand an hour, and then fry in the usual way {see Sole, Fried). When done enough, carefully remove the back bone, and in the cavity thus made place a little maitre d'hotel butter. Serve the fish on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and send a cut lemon, or, if pre- ferred, plain melted butter or maitre d'hotel sauce to table with it. The maitre d'hotel butter may be made as follows:—Wash a hand- ful of picked parsley-leaves, chop them finely, put them in the comer of a napkm, dip them in cold water, and wring them dry. This second washing wiU decrease the raw taste of the parsley. Put it in a basin, and with it a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg, a Little pepper and salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Mix the butter and parsley with the point of a knife till smooth and creamy, when it will be I ready for use. It must not be melted, or it i would turn oily. Time, about twenty minutes to fry a thick fish. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sole (a la Maitre d'Hotel) .—Have two or three soles filleted; stew the heads and bones in about half a pint^of water, place the fillets of the soles in a flat cotelette-pan in about a wine-glassful of this water, simmer two and a half minutes each side; turn the remainder of the water into sauce, by putting two ounces of butter, a little cayenne and salt and chopped parsley, thickening with arrowroot; add a tea-spoon- ful of shallot vinegar, or the squeeze of half a lemon, pour over, and serve. Sole (a la Meuni&re).—Clean, skin, and emptv a fine fresh sole cut awai- the tins and