TBI TBI ( 991 ) Trifles, Savoury.—Any kind of cold meat, game, tish, or shell-fish may be elegantly served as foUows:—Mince the meat, season it, and warm it in a little sauce, as if it were to be used for vol-au-vents or patties. Make some paper cases by pressing a round of thick writing-paper into a circular wooden box to take the shape. Lightly oil these cases inside and out, fill them with the savoury mince, and put them into a brisk oven for a minute or two to make them hot. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs over the top, and send the trifles to table neatly arranged on a napkin. They wiU make a pretty corner dish. Time to heat the mince-in the cases, two or three minutes. Trinity College Pudding.—Mince four ounces of cold boiled tongue very finely, and mix with it eight ounces of finely-shred suet, eight ounces of grated bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of picked and dried cm-rants, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two ounces of shred candied peel, a small table-spoonful of flour, and a little salt and mixed spice. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and make them into a paste by stirring in with them the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, the white of one, and a glassful of brandy. Tui-n the pudding into a buttered shape which it will quite fill, cover it with a cloth, plunge it into boihng water, snd boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully before serving. Time to boil, about three hours. Probable cost. Is. lOd., ex- clusive of the brandy. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Tripe.—Tripe is usually prepared for dress- ing before being offered for sale. It should be perfectly fresh, thoroughly cleansed, thick, fat, and as white as possible. The honeycomb is generally preferred. If entirely undressed it requires to be most carefully cleaned and to be gently boiled for sixteen hours or more before it cai} be used. It may be cooked in various ways, the most usual of which is to boil it till tender and serve with onion sauce. Tripe (a la Lyonnaise).—When there is any tripe remaining from the previous day, it may be sent to table again prepared as follows:— Take a pound of cold boiled tripe, dry it well, and cut it in pieces an inch square. Dissolve two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan, slice a large onion into this, and fry it over a gentle fire imtil it is tender. Put the pieces of tripe with it, and also a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a table-spoonful of vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Heat all gently together for a minute, and serve immediately. Time, five or six minutes to fry the tripe and onions. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Tripe, Baked.—Take a pound of fresh drossca white tripe. Wash it in cold water, and cut into neat squares. Slice half a dozen onion.s, and fry them lightly in butter. Put them into an earthen baking-dish which has a closely-fitting lid, lay the tripe upon them, and Bprinklo over it a largo table-spoonful of flour and a little pepper and salt. Cover the whole with milk, put on the lid, and bake the tripe in a moderate oven. AVhen done enougii, skun the fat from the top, and serve the tripe on a hot dish. Some cooks substitute cider for the milk, and also put a table-spoonful of Indian chutnce with the meat before baking it lime to bake, about an hour and a half Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufiacient for two or three persons. Tripe, Beef Beef Tripe). Tripe Boiled.—Take two pounds of per- fectly clean dressed tripe. If there be time, soak it in milk for some hours before boiling, and if it should happen that the milk turns sour, the acidity which the tripe will thus acquii-e will improve it rather than otherwise. If the tripe cannot be soaked, wash it in cold water, then cut it into pieces about three inches long and two broad. Put it into a saucepan, and cover with equal parts of cold milk and water. Let it boil, then add eight moderate- sized white onions, a table-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Cover the pan closely, and simmer the tripe gently until tender. lift out the onions, mince them finely, and press them through a coarse sieve. Mix with them as much melted butter made with milk instead of water as will make a thick sauce, and serve the tripe on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it, or, if preferred, the sauce may be served separately in a tureen. Some cooks flavour the sauce with mustard and a httle vinegar. Time to boil, about two hours. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per lb. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Tripe, Curried.—Mince finely three or four large onions, put them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and fry them until they are tender. Eub them through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a table-spoonful of ground rice and a table-spoonful of curry paste. Add graduallj^ a pint of stock, and stir the sauce over the fire untU it boils. Take two pounds of tripe already boiled till tender ; put it into the sauce with a little more stock, let it boil gently for an hour, and remove the scum carefully as it rises. Serve on a hot dish, and send rice boiled as for curry to table with it. Time to simmer the tripe, one hour. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tripe, Eggs a la.—Make a little roux with flour and butter; frj-- a few chopped onions cut square in the same stewpan before the roux is made brown. Moisten with some good boil- ing milk, with pepper and salt. Let the flour and onions be weU. done, and keep the sauce rather thick. Next have ten eggs boiled hard, cut them in quarters or in round sUces, and put them into the sauce. Stir gently that the yolk may not separate from Sie white, and serve up. Tripe for Invalids.—Take half a pound of fresh-dressed tripe. Wash it, cut it into squares, and remove almost all the fat. Cut up half a pound of lean beef in the same way, and put both into a stewpan with half a pint of cold water, half a spoonful of mustPcrd, a small lump of sugar, and a little salt. Bring the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, then di-aw