( 761 ) RIC RIC stir them •rradually into the rice. Pour the mixture gently into the mould, that the crumbs may not be displaced, put it into a very gentle oven, and let it remain until done enough, Turn out carefully, so as not to break the pud- ding. It ought to look like a well-browned cake. Time to bake, one hour or more. Pro- bable co.st, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Pudding, Boiled, Cheap.— Wash a tea-cupful of rice, drain it, and put it into a dry, untioured pudding-cloth. Gather the ends together, and tie it loosely, leaving room for the rice to swell to three times its size. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of fast- boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. If it is necessary to add more water, let it be boiling. When done enough turn it upon a dish, and send sweet sauce to table with it. A little may be poured round it in the dish. This pudding" may be pleasantly varied by mi.ving with the rice half a cupful of washed currants, or Sultana raisins, or prunes, or gooseberries, or apples pared, cored, and quartered. It is well to place a plate under the pudding in the saucepan, to keep it from sticking. Time to boil, one hour and three- quarters. Probable cost, plain rice pudding, 2d. Sufficient for five or si.x persons. Rice Pudding, Boiled, Superior.— No. I. Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it gently in a pint and a half of milk till it is soft and thick. The milk should be sweetened and flavoured pleasantly with lemon or orange-rind, or almond, cocoa-nut, or vanilla. Pour the mixture into a basin, and when cold stir into it a slice of butter, four well-whisked eggs, and a spoonful of brandy—the brandy, however, may be omitted. Pour the pudding into a mould which it will quite fill, lay a buttered paper upon it, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Serve with sweet sauce, stewed fruit, cream, or jam. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. No. 2. Boil four ounces of rice in water till it is soft and thick. Put it dry into a mortar, and pound well with a slice of fresh butter, five weU- beaten yolks of eggs, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a pound of picked and washed currants, and a flavouring of lemon, nutmeg, or vanilla. Beat the mixture thoroughly, put it into a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil until done enough. Turn the pudding out ciirefully, and serve with sweet or wine .sauce. Time to boil, one hour and a half. Pro- bable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rice Pudding. Chicken and {nee C'hicken and Kicc Puuding). Rice Pudding, Dutch.—Soak four ounces of rice in varm water half an ho>ir, then drain the water from it, and throw the rice into a stewpan with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold, mix four whole eggs well beaten, with a slice of butter melted in a tea-cupful of cr(!am (or milk where cream is scarce or dear), add three ounces of sugar, a quarter of a nut- meg, a good piece of lemon-peel, and the rice. Put alight puff paste or grated tops and bottoms in a mould or dish, spread the rice on this, and bake in a quick oven. Rice Pudding, French {see Guteau de Riz). Rice Pudding (French method).—Boil the rice in a quart of new milk till it becomes of the consistency of cream and quite soft, taking care not to stir it from the time it is put on the fire until it thickens. Let it stand to cool until about half an hour before serving. Then beat up the yolks of four eggs, add them to the rice with a little lemon-peel pared very thin, and sweeten with sugar to taste. Set the pudding-dish upon a hot hearth, and brown the top of the pudding with a salamander. This being done, cover the browned top with a thick layer of clarified butter and pounded white sugar. Do it over again with the salamander, until the butter and sugar are quite brown and candied. This pud- ding does not require to be baked—it must be put on the hot hearth and prepared, as directed, in the same dish as it is sent to table in. Some add to the ingredients a little nutmeg or mace. Rice Pudding, German (see German Pudding, Rice). Rice Pudding, Ground. — Beat a quarter of a pound of ground rice gradually to a smooth paste with half a pint of milk. Pour a pint of boiling milk over it, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time. When it is nearly cold stir into it three ounces of finely-shred beef suet (or, if preferred, use a slice of butter), two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg or lemon-rind for flavouring, and from two to four well-beaten eggs. A table-spoonful of brandy may be added if liked. Pour the rice into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 9d., if made with, two eggs. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Pudding, Iced.—Wash six ounces of the best Carolina rice, and pick out the dis- colomed grains. Put it into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it until the grains are tender without being broken. Drain it, pour over it half a pint of thick cream, and boil it again until it is very soft. Turn it out, beat well, sweeten, and flavour it with lemon, nutmeg, vanilla, or almonds. Put it into a plain mould, and freeze it until it is suf- ficiently firm. Serve it on a neatly-folded nap- kin. Time to boil the rice, about two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rice Pudding, Rich.—Wash six ounces of rice, and boU it in as much water as will thoroughly cover it for twenty minutes. Dmin it, and beat it up with a pinch of salt, a slice of fresh butter, a quarter of a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of picked and dried currants, a table-spoonful of brandy, a flavouring of nut- meg, cinnamon, or lemon-rind, and four wcll- .beaten eggs. Pour the mi.xturc into a butlerod