POH ( 608 ) tho strained juico of a lomon. Stir them over the firo for a minute or two, then pour over thorn half a pint of nicely-flavoured stock, and lot tho sauce simmer gently for twenty minutes. Serve the sauco in a turocn. Time to roast tho pork, twonty-fivo minutes per pound. Probable cost, 9kl. to 10|d. pur pound. Pork, Loin of, with Pried Potatoes. —lioast a piece of tho loin or spare i-ib of pork in the usual way. Basto liberally, and when it is almost done enough, take six or eight large po- tatoes—French kidney potatoes arc best for the purpose, as they do not break -whilst cooking so much as the regents—wash and peel them, dry them well in a napkin, and cut them into slices the eighth of an inch thick. Pour the fat which has dropped from the pork into a small deep saucepan. When it is quite hot, throw the potatoes into it, and move them about occasion- ally that they may be equally cooked. Drain them from tho fat, and serve the pork on a hot dish, the- fried potatoes being arranged round it: send brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time, ten minutes to fry the potatoes. Probable cost: pork, 9Ad. to lOid. per pound. Pork, Loin of, with Sauce Robert. —Eoast a loin of pork in the usual way, baste liberally, and when done enough serve on a hot dish with a sauce prepared as follows poured roimd it:—Cut four good-sized onions into small pieces, fry them in two ounces of butter imtil they are lightly browned. Sprinkle an ounce of floirr over them, and stir them about -with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire for two minutes. Add a little salt and pepper, a pint of stock, and a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, and let the sauce simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, stirring it aU the time. Pour it on a hot dish, lay the joint upon it, and serve imme- diately. Send apple sauce to table in a ttireen. A little made mustard may be added to the sauce, if liked. Loin of pork, when served ■with this sauce, is sometimes stewed instead of being roasted. To do this, put the joint ■with a small portion of clarified butter into a ste^svpan just large enough to hold it. Let it bro'svn brightly on both sides, then pour over it as much stock as ■will cover it, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, a little salt and pepper, and a glass of light ■wine; let it simmer gently for two hours, and baste two or three times at intervals during the time. Serve the pork on a hot dish ■with the sauce poured round it. Time to roast a loin weighing about four pounds, one hour and a quarter. Probable cost, 9td. to lO^d. per pound. SuflRcient for five or six persons. Pork, Meat Cake of.—IMince separately one pound of lean pork and three quarters of a pound of fat bacon. Mix them, and season the mixture rather highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, and chopped sa ge. Bind the ingredients together with the yolk of an egg. Form a round cake about an inch thick; dissolve a small portion of butter in a stowpan. Put in the cake, let it brown on one side, then turn it, and let it brown equally on the other. Put it on a hot dish, drcdtro a little flour into the butter, mix it to a smooth paste, thin it witlx a little stock, season with pepper and salt, and boil until it is of the consistence of cream; put in the ciike, let it heat through, and serve with the sauco in the dish. If the flavour is Ukod, a little linoly-minced onion may hn added both to tho cake and the sauce. Time to fry, from twelve to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Suflicient for three persouB. Pork, Meat Cake of. Cold.—Cut the meat, fat and lean, hum a cold joint of roast pork, and mince it very finely; mix with it a couple of largo potatoes freshly boiled and mashed, a little salt and pepper, a chopped onion, and a pinch of powdered sage. Add two or three eggs and a little milk, sufficient to make a very thick batter. Fry the cake like an omelet, or bake in a buttered dish. Serve with pickled onions or gherkins. Time to fry, until nicely bro-wned. Probable cost, 6d., ex- clusive of tho cold pork. Pork, Minced.—Take a pound of cold roast pork, free from fat or skin, and season it with a little pepper, .salt, and dry mustard. Pare, core, a,nd mince finely four large apples, and put them into a saucepan -with two ounces of fresh butter and three chopped onions of a moderate size. Stir these ingredients over the fire imtil tender. Pour over them three table-spoonfuls of nicely-flavoured stock, or if any is at hand, of the gravy that was served with the roast pork. Add a table-spoonful of vinegar, and a piece of brown thickening the size of a small nut, or if this is not to be had, a tea-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly -with a dessert-spoonful of cold stock. Let the sauce boil five or six minutes. Stir into it the minced pork, and when this is quite hot, add the juice of a small lemon, and serve immediately. If the fiavour is liked, a piece of garlic the size of a pea may be sim- mered -with the sauce. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pork, Minced as Collops (a German recipe).—]\Iince one pound of colcllean pork and two ounces of fat pork very finely. Mix with it four otmces of grated bread-crumbs, and a little pepper and salt, and bind the mixture together ■with two well-beaten eggs. Form tho minco into balls, flatten these on the top, brush thou over with egg, dip them in bread crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Serve ■with good brown gra\'y. If liked, tlie collops instead of being fried may be stewed in a gravy prepared as follows :—Put the bones and trimmings of tho pork into a stewpan with as much stock as wiU cover them. Season the gra^vy with pepper and salt, and simmer it gently for half an hour. Strain it, place it again in the saucepan, and put in the collops. Lot thorn stew for a quarter of an hour. Lift them out carefully, and keep them hot. Thicken the gravy with brown thickening, and add a table- spoonful of chopped ciipcrs or a couple of finely- minced shallots to the sauce. Send r;iuliflowcr or delicately-fried potatoes to t^ible with tho collops. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four jiersons. Pork, Neck of, Rolled and Roasted. —Take tho ueck or spring of fresh young pork.