PIN PIN ( 674 ) and place those on a largo dish In a single layer ■with • as much powdered and sifted sugar sprinkled over as will cover them. Keep the fruit in a hot closet until it is dry, turning it regularly each day. When the dry point is reached, put tlio slices oh a tin, and place tliem in a quick oven for ton minutes. \VTion quite cool, store thorn in single layers in a tin box ■with writing-paper between each layer. Time, nine or ton days to dry the slices. Pine-apple, Compote of.—Peel a pine- apple, and pick all the specks or eyes from it; cut it into slices half an inch thick, keep one of the lai-gest of tlieso Avhole, and divide the rest into halves. Make some syrup by boiling five ounces of lump sugar in half a pint of water for ten minutes, put in the slices of fruit, and let them boil for five minutes. Leave them in the syrup until they are quite cold; .drain them; put the whole shoe in the centre of a compote- dish, and arrange the half slices in a circle round it; pour the syrup over, and serve. Time to boil the syrup, ten minutes; ■with the fruit, five minutes. Probable cost, pine-apples, when very,cheap. Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pine-apple Cream in a Mould.— Take a moderate-sized pine-apple, fully ripe, pare it carefully, pick out the specks or eyes, strip all the pulp from the core, and cut it into dice with a silver knife. Strew over it nine ounces of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, add two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and let it soak for two hours. Put the peel into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and let it simmer gently for an hour; strain it, and let it cool. Eetum the liquid into the saucepan, ,with the fruit, sugar, and juice, and boil all gently together for a quarter of an hour. Skim it, and mix with it three-quarters of an ounce of best isinglass. Boil it ten minutes longer, pour it out, and mix ■with it a pint and a quarter of thick cream. Whisk the mixture briskly until it begins to thicken, then pour it into a mould, and set it on ice. The cream should be stirred for a few minutes after it is put upon the ice, or the fruit will sink to the bottom. Probable cost, 4s. 6d., with pine-apples at Is. 6d. each, and cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for a quart mould. Pine-apple Cream, made with Tinned. Fruit.—Cut half a pound of pre- served pine-apple into dice. Put the sja-up into a stcwpan with three ounces of loaf-sugar and half a pint of water. When the sugar is dissolved, put in the fruit, and boil all quickly for ten minutes. Add three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass, and boil ten minutes longer. Pour the. mixture into a bowl, and whisk it well with! one pint and a quarter of cream. As soon as it .begins to thicken, pour it into a nMuld, and set, it upon ice. Stir it for a .few minutes after it is on the ice to prevent the frultr settling to the bottom. Time, throe- quartcrs of an hour. Sufficient for seven or eight people. Pine-apple Creams Served in Glasses.—Pare a ripe pino-applc, and cut the rind into pieces. Boil it in a quarter of a i pint of milk until the flavour is drawn out,- then strain it, and mix witli it four ounces of loaf-sugar, a pint of cream, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Pour the uiixtun; into a sauce- pan, and stir over a gentle fire until it begins to thicken. Pour it out, let it cool, tlien whisk until it is nicely frothed, and put it into the glasses. When pine-upple cream is made in this way, the pulp may be cut up and uscid for dessert. Time, lialf an hour to Ijoil the rind in the milk. Probable cost, lis. 2d. Sufficient for half a dozen glasses. Pine-apple Drops.—Pare a very ripe pine-ai)ple, bruise the pulp in a mortar, and jjress it through a coarse sieve. Put it, with it.s juice, into a basin, and stir into it, very gi-adually, as much coarsely-sifted sugar as will make it into a stiff paste. Put it into a small sugar-boiler, and stir over the fire until it boils. Let it fall in drops upon an oiled baking-sheet, and when the drops are cold lay them on a sieve, and place them in a hot screen until they are quite dry. Pine-apple Fritters. — Pare a pine- apple with as little waste as possible. Cut it into thick slices, and place these in a shallow dish. Sprinkle two ounces of powdered and sifted sugar upon them, pour a wineglassful of brandy, cura(,'oa, or maraschino over them, and let them soak for five hours. Make a frying batter as follows:—Mix a salt-spoon- ful of salt ■with three-quarters of a pound of flour; add the well-whisked yolks of two eggs and two ounces of clarified butter, and pour in, very gradually, a little more than half a jiint of lukewarm water or, if preferred, beer. Beat the mixture thoroughly whilst the water is being added, so that it may be quite smooth. This batter should be sufficientlj' thick to drop from the spoon. It should be made at the time that the sUces are put into the Hqueur, and then put aside, as it is best ■when made two or three hours before it is wanted. Ten minutes before it is to be used, add the whites of three eggs whisked to a firm froth. Dip the pieces -of pine-apjjle into the batter, and ch-op them into boiling lard. Turn them lightly in this until they are crisp and brown on both sides, then drain from the fat, and serve thom quickly. They should be piled on a neatly-folded napkin, and have powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry, six or eight minutes. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. to 2s. each. Sufficient for tlu-ee or four persons. Pine-apple Glace for Dessert.—Take some sUces of pine-apple, and boil them in syrup as if for a compote {see Pine-apple, Compote of). Let them remain in the s\Tiip until cold, then drain them entirely from it, put a skewer half way through each "slice, and place them in a hot screen to dry. Prepare some sugar as follows : —Dissolve a pound of sugar in a pint of water, put it over a quick fire, skim cvn-efuUy. and "boil it until it has readied the third, or feathered, degree. When it is almost done, .stir it lightly for a minute or two, and press the side of the pan ^vith the spoon. In order to ascertain whim the sugar has reached the jiroper stage, dip in the skimmer, shake it, and give it a sudden toss. If done enough, the sugar