sow I ( 008 ) SOY upon it twice its bulk in lukuwiu-ui water. Leave it for throe or four dayH in a warm place till it tiu-ns sour. Pass the whole through a sieve, and squeeze the seeds, moistening them with a little of the liquor, to get all the goodness out of them. Lot the liquor thus obtained stand till the starchy matter it contains sinks to the bottom; then pour it off, and add fresh cold water. When the soweus are wanted, pour oif the water, and mix as much of the starcliy sediment with water as will thin it; put a little salt into it, and boil it, stirring briskly all the time till it thickens. Pour it into a deep bowl, and serve with wine, beer, or millc. Soweus thus made wiU keep good for a week or more in winter. If a little that has turned sour be nuxed with that which is to be freshly made, it will facilitate its preparation. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to thicken the sowens. Sowens, English. — Markham, in his "English Housewife" (1653), describes a food called wash-brew, eaten in England, made of the very small oatmeal, by frequent steeping of it, and then boiling it into a jelly, to be eaten with honey, milk, wine, or ale, according to taste. " I have," says he, " seen them of sickly and dainty stomachs which have eaten great quantities thereof, beyond the proportion of ordinary meats." "The Scotsman," remarks Dr. Chambers, commenting on this passage, " can be at no loss to recognise in this description the sowens of his native land, a dish formerly prevalent among the peasantry, but now com- paratively little known. To illustrate Mark- ham's remark as to the quantity of this mess that could be eaten, the writer may adduce a fact related to him by his grandmother, who was the wife of an extensive store-farmer in Peebleshire, from 1768 to 1780. A new plough- man had been hired for the farm. On the first evening, coming home just after the sowens had been prepared, but when no person was present in the kitchen, he began vsdth one of the cogs or "bowls, went on to another, and in a little time had despatched the very last of the series; after which he coolly remarked to the maid, at that moment entering the house, ' Lass, I wish you would to-morrow night make my sowens all in one dish, and not in drippocks and drappocks that way!'" Soy.—This is a kind of sauce prepared in China and Japan from a small bean, the pro- duce of Dolichos soja. It is used with fish and other articles of diet. In choosing soy, see that it is of a good flavour, not too salt nor too sweet, of a good thick consistence, a brown colour, and clear. When shaken in a glass, it should leave a coat on the surface of a bright yellowish-brown colour; if it do not, it is an inferior sort, and should be rejected. Chinese soy is considered inferior to that of Japan. Soy, Chinese Preparation of.—Equal quantities of beans ana wheat are boiled to- gether, and then tritiiratcd between stones, water being added occasionally. The mass is cooked in a pan, and cut into thin slices, which are kept covered with straw for about twenty days. When completely fermented, the separate slifps hfiving become moulrly, they are washed with w uter, placed in a vessel, and their weight of water and salt added. In this condition they are kept for a number of days, and are finally again triturated between stones. Soy, Chinese (another way).—Thirty-flvo pounds of the shelled puhio are washed in cold water, and boiled in water enough to cover them uiitil they are suUiciently tender, which is ascer- tained by squeezing tliem between the finger and thumb. This requires only a few minutes to efiect. They are then drained in a sieve, but, whilst still wet, are mixed with a portion of meal made of the same pulse, ground, and which an Anglo-Indian, if he were here to see it, would immediately pronounce to be " ground gram," In this meal they are stirred until the surface of each bean is covered. The mass is now laid upon mats to the thickness of about two inches, and the beans are left to dry imtil the sui'face of the mass begins to appear mouldy. They are then dried by gradual heat in slow stoves, until they can bear the stroke of a maUet, when they are rubbed with the hand or with a hard brush to free them from the meal. Earthen pans, ready prepared, now receive them in equal portions, and a pickle is made witli twenty pounds of salt dissolved in five times its weight of water, which is equally divided among the pans. These are now carefuUy covered, and kept, during six weeks or more, in a place where the temperature is nearly 100" Fahren- heit. When at length the soluble part of the beans—the part that constitutes the soy—is extracted, this being ascertained by the dark brown colour of the liquid in the pans, the liquid is poured off, and boiled down to the proper consistence. This, however, is not effected until after repeated boilings, during which a quantity of moist sugar, ginger, mace, and black pepper are added in quantities according to the taste of the manufacturers, each having his own peculiar ideas of flavour- ing, which constitutes the difference between the several manufactories. After the last boil- ing, the soy is allowed to stand a few days, then strained, and put into flasks for sale. Soy, Japanese.—The beans are first washed, then boiled with water enough to cover them until they are tender. They are then mashed in a mortar and mixed with their weight of coarse barley-meal. This mixture, being closely covered, is then placed in a warm situ- ation, and left to ferment. When the mass is sufficiently fermented, a weight of salt, equal to that of the beans originally, is dissolved in five times its weight of water, and added to the fermented mass, and is strongly stirred in it. The whole being well covered, it remains in this state during three months, being daily agitated and beaten dirring two hours, after which it is again covered. It is then strained through cotton cloth, which is well pressed until everj"^ drop of liquid has passed through. The soy is now put into wooden tubs, when age fines it. After a time, when it is suflScicntly clear, it is racked off, and put into smaller wooden vessels for sale. Meanwhile, more water is poured upon the mass that remains after the straining, and soy of an inferior kind is made. Though there is no spice, nor other seasoning but salt, in tbo Japanese soy, it is far