POT ( 621 ) POT Potato Cheese.—Potato cheeses are verj- hii-hly esteemed in Germany; they can be made of'vaj-ious qualities, but care must be taken that they are not too rich, and have not too much heat, or they wnU bui-st. Boil the potatoes till thoy are soft, but the skin must not be broken. The potatoes must be large and of the best quality. When boiled carefully peel them, and beat them to a smooth paste in a mortar ■with a wooden pestle. To make the commonest cheese, put five pounds of potato paste into a cheese tub, with one pound of milk and rennet; add a sufficient quantity of salt, to- gether with caraways and cumin seed, suf- ficient to impart a good flavour. Knead all these ingredients well together, cover up, and allow them to stand three or four days in winter, and two or three in summer. At the end of that time, knead them again, put the paste into wicker moulds, and leave the cheeses to drain until they are quite dry. When diy and firm, lay them on a board, and leave them gradually to acquire hardness in a place of very moderate warmth; should the heat be too great, as we have already said, they will burst. When, in spite of all precautions, such accidents occur, the crevices of the burst cheeses are, in Germany, filled with curds and cream mixed, some being also put over the whole surface of the cheese, which is then dried again. As soon as the cheeses are thoroughly dry and hard, place them in barrels with green chickweed between each cheese ; let them stand for about three weeks, when they will be fit for use. Potato Cheese (other ways).—A better potato cheese than that produced by following the preceding recipe may be made with four pounds of potato paste, and two pounds of milk and rennet; one still better by mixing three pounds of potato paste, with three pounds of milk and rennet; and one better still by add- ing three pounds of milk and rennet to two pounds of potato paste. But the most delicate of potato cheeses is prepared in the following manner:—Mix one part of potato paste with three parts of milk and rennet salted. Knead in the way prescribed in the foregoing recipe, and leave the mixture in the moulds for three or four days, when at the bottom of each mould there will be found a layer of cheese about three- quarters of an inch thick. On the surface of this spread with a spoon a piece of fresh butter a little larger than a plover's egg, and over this strew a mixture of pounded mace and caraway seeds. On this now place another similar cheese, with the same ingredients spread over its surface. Continue adding cheese after cheese until the basket is full. After a time, which varies according to the state of the weather, all these layers will bo found adhering together and forming one large cheese. Take this out, and place it on a board to dry gradually. This cheese will keep for many years. Potato Cheese (a Saxon recipe).—Potato cheese is mado thus in Saxony:—Boil potatoes of the large white kind, and when cool peel thorn, and reduce thorn to a pulp by a grater or a mortar. To every seven pounds of this pulp, add a pint of sour milk, and salt to taste. Knead the whole together, cover it up, and let it remain three or four days; at the end of which time, knead it again, form it into chooses, and place the cheeses in smaU baskets to drain. Dry them in the shade in layers in pots. Potato cheeses are always much improved by keeping. Potato Cheesecakes.—Rub two ounces of lump sugar upon the rind of half a small lemon until the yellow part is taken off, then crush them to powder. Mix with this three ounces of boiled potatoes, dry and floury, two ounces of clarified butter, and the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly, and add at the last moment the white of an egg beaten to a firm froth. Line the patty-pans with puff paste, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. Or, take a quarter of a pound of boiled potatoes, diy and floury. Bruise them well, and let them cool a little, then mix with them two ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs and three ounces of loaf- sugar which has been rubbed upon half a small lemon and crushed to powder. Add three ounces of fresh butter which has been beaten to a cream, and three eggs. The eggs should be added separately, and the mixture should be well beaten between each addition. Three-parts fill the lined patty-pans, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Potato Cheesecakes (another way).— See Cheesecakes, Potato). Potato Cones, or Loaves.—Prepare some potatoes according to the directions given for potato balls. Form them into balls or cones, brush them over with beaten egg, and place them in the pan under a roasting joint, which is sufficiently cooked to drop the gravy with the fat. Turn them about that they may be equally browned, and allow a little of the gravy to drop upon them. Send them to table with the meat, but on a separate dish. Time to brown the cones, about, twenty minutes. Potato Cottage Pudding.—Take half a pound of boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Beat until they are quite smooth, and add a pinch of salt, the grated rind and strained juice of a small lemon, two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, two ounces of clarified butter or good beef dripping, and two well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly, turn it into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. The flavour of the pudding may be varied by the addition of a few washed and dried currants, or an ounce of blanched and pounded almonds, or a glassful of sherry. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Croquettes. —Bake half a dozen largo potatoes (regents). When done enough, burst them open, and scoop out the contents with a spoon. Beat the pulp until it is quite smooth, then put it into a clean saucepan with the yolks of one or two eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Beat this mixture over a moderate fire, until it leaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon, then spread it out on a dish and let it cool. Shape it into balls;