( 897 ) SOB SOL to bake the fish, about ten minutes. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or live persons. Sole, with Mushrooms. — Clean, but do not skin, a pair of moderate-sized fresh soles. Lay them in a saucepan, cover with equal quantities of milk and water, and add an ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Bring them gently to the point of boUiiig, draw them back a little, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up, drain them, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them three-quarters of a pint of white mushroom sauce {see Mushroom Sauce, White). Time to simmer the soles, six or seven minutes after the liquor boils. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Sole with Water Souchet. — Take some fine fi'esh soles, scale the white side, and take the skin from the black side. Empty out aU the intestines, and wash the fish thoroughly in several waters. When the soles are quite clean, boil them in water souchet, which should be prepared as foUows :—Take some roots of parsley, and cut them into slices about the eighth of an inch thick and an inch in length. Put these roots into some water with a bunch of parsley, green onions, and a little salt; let them stew for an hour, then stew the soles in this water. When the fish are done enough, have ready some parsley leaves without the stalks which have been blanched separately in salt and water. Drain the soles, and take care that the parsley roots are preserved. Put the fish into a tureen with some of the liquor in which they have been stewed, and which you should strain through a silk sieve. Throw in the parsley roots and leaves, and serve up the water souchet without any bread in it; but in a separate plate send to table a few slices of rj'e- bread and butter. This broth must be as salt as the salt sea. Solid Cream.—Take half a pint of double cream, or cream which has stood for twenty- four hours before being skimmed. Sweeten it with an ounce of sugar and flavour pleasantly. Whisk it with an ordinary whisk in a cool place till it begins to thicken, then stop in- stantly. If the whisking is kept up too long the cream will curdle. It will be twice its original bulk. Solid Raspberry.—Dissolve half a pint of raspberry jolly, or rub a pint of the fruit through a sieve; add 2 ozs. of powdered sugar and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the mixture till it is almost cool, then add three- quarters of an ounce of isinglass or gelatine which has been dissolved in a tea-cupfid of water, and stir it again for a few minutes Mix hghtly with half a pint of solid cream (see last recipe) and turn into a damp mould. Care must be taken to use an earthenware, not a metal mould, or the colour of the solid will be spoilt. Time, about twelve hours to set the solid Probable cost, Ss. Sufficient for a quart mould. Solid Ratafia.—Crumble six ounces of macaroons and two ounces of ratafia cakes, put Jiriii iiito a l)owl, iuiil pour upon them a pint of boiling cream sweetened and flavoured with lemon-rind. Stir the mixture till it is almost cool, and the biscuits are dissolved, then add half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine which has been dissolved in a tea-cupful of milk. Stir the cream till it is cold, pour it into damp moulds, and leave it in a cool place tiU firm. Turn it upon a glass dish, and serve in the same. Time, about twelve hours to set the solid. Probable cost, about Ss. Sufficient for a quart mould. Solid Syllabub.—Rub five or six lumps of sugar upon the lind of two large fresh lemons till the yellow part is taken off, then add a little more sugar to make up the weight to half a pound. Crush this to powder, put it into a bowl, and strain upon it the juice of the lemons. Add a pint of sherry or raisin wine, and a pint of double cream, that is, cream that has stood Jor twenty-four hours. Whisk the mixture tUl it is a solid froth, and lay it on a muslin sieve. Leave it for twelve hours, then serve in glasses. Time to froth the syllabub, an hour or more. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Somersetshire Frumenty.—This fru- menty may be served hot or cold. Bruise a quart of wheat thoroughly, put it into a stone jar, pour a quart of water upon it, and bako in a gentle oven till it is soft. Put a quart o± new milk into a bowl, and pulp into it as much wheat as will make it of the consistency of very thick cream. Stir into it sugar and nutmeg to sweeten and flavour it pleasantly, and add two table-spoonfuls of picked currants. Stir the mixture over the fire till the currants are soft. Eemove it from the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of milk, then stir it again over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Serve in a deep dish. Time to bake the wheat, about four hours. Somersetshire Syllabub.—Put a pint of port and a pint of sherry into a large china bowl, together with six ounces of powdered sugar and half a grated nutmeg. Milk into the bowl until it is fuU, or, if preferred, milk into another vessel. Strain the milk, and while it is still warm pour it from a good height upon the wine. In twenty minutes cover it with clotted cream, and gjixnish with nonpareil comfits. A true Somersetshire syl- labub can be prepared only with milk warm and fresh from the cow. Sufficient for a large syllabub. Sop, Sweet and Sour.—The sweet sop is a tropical fruit of about the size of an arti- choke ; the pulp is said when properlv ripe to have a taste somewhat like clotted cream and sugar. The plant seems to have been originally a native of South America, but it is now very widely distributed throughout the tropics. The sour sop is the fruit of a tree somewhat similar in size. The fruits are very abimdant, and the negroes eat large quantities of them. Sorbet of Kirschenwasser. — Make some ice as follows:—Mix thoroughly a pint of syrup at 36», and a pint of chablis. Strain the mixtlire through silk into a freezing-puu.