( 672 ) PIL PIL Patna rico, and dry it in a soft cloth. Throw it into boiling water, and boil quickly for live minutes, drain it, and stir it in a atewpan witli two ounces of butter until it is equally and lightly browned. When the fowl is half cooked, put in tho rico, and four ounces of Sultana raisins, and let all simmer gently together until tho grains arc tender without being broken, and tho gravy is almost absorbed. Lay the fowl in a hot dish, cover with tho rice, lay tho nvisins at tho top, and garnish the dish with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, or with thinly-sliced onions fried until they aro quite dry and brown. Serve very hot. Time to boil the fowl, according to size. Three-quarters of an hour to simmer the rice. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 38. 6d., with a chicken at 2s. 6d. Pilau of Fowl (another way).—Cut up a plump chicken into neat joints, and lay these in a ste^ivpan with two salt-spoonfuls of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a drachm of powdered mace, and as much stock as will cover the fowl. Let it simmer gently until done enough. Lift the joints out, and drop into the liquid very gradual!}''—so that the boiling may not be stopped—half a pound of Patna rice. Let it simmer imtil the grains are quite tender with- out being broken, then add three ounces of fresh, butter divided into small pieces, and let the pan remain near the fire for a minute or two until the butter is melted. Fry the pieces of chicken until they are brightly browned. Pile the rice lightly on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of chicken upon it, and serve very hot. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 3a. 3d., with a chicken at 2s. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pilau, Kice for a.—The 'most important part of a Pilau is the rice. It is prepared as follows:—"Wash and pick half a poimd of rice, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil rapidly for five minutes. Drain it, put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, and stir it over a quick fire imtil it is lightly coloured; add cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of safEron-water, and three- quarters of a pint of stock, and simmer gently until the grains are quite tender without being broken. Stir in a table-spoonful of curry- powder, pile the rice high on a dish, and send it to table with the meat placed upon it. Or wash and pick half a pound of rice, and dry it thoroughly in a soft cloth. Drop it very gradually into a pint and a half of boiling water, and let it boil gently until the rice is quite tender without being broken, and the water is absorbed. When this point is reached, throw in two ounces of butter broken into small pieces, with a little salt and cayenne. Stir the whole briskly for a minute or two, and serve hot with stewed meat cut into neat pieces placed upon the rice. Time to boil the rice, about three-quarters of an hour. Pro- bable cost, rice, 3d. per pound. Patna rice is the best for this purpose. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pilchards.—Pilchards are rarely found on the British shores except on the coasts of Corn- wall and Devon, particularly the former, where I " thev are captured in great numbers from tho middle of July to tho end of November, or even tho middle of December. Cornish fisher- men say that the pilchard is the least fish in the sea for size, the most in number, and the greatest for gain taken from the sea. The princii>al seats of the pilchard fishery are St. Ives, Mount's Bay, and Mevagissey. Tho fish are captured either by seam or by drift-nets. A scan is a net 200 or 300 fathoniH long, and over ten feet deep, liaving cork buoys on one edge and lead weights on the other. Whenever the fish aro brought on shore they are carried to cellars or warehouses, and piled in large heaps, a sufficient quantity of salt being placed between the layers. After remaining in this state for about thirty-five days they are care- fully washed and cleaned, and then packed in hogsheads, containing on an average 2,600 fish. They are then pressed, so as to extract the oil, of which each hogshead yields about three gal- lons, provided the fish be caught in summer. Those taken late in the season do not yield above a gallon and a half. The fresh fish in a hogshead of pilchards weigh about six hundred- weight, and the salt about six hundred-weight and a half; the weight of the hogshead, how- ever, when cured and pressed, is reduced to about foiir and a half hundred-weight, includ- ing the weight of the cask, which ranges from twenty to twenty-four pounds. The quantity of pilchards taken at one time is sometimes extraordinary. Mr. Yavul, ia 1841, mentions that an instance has been known where 10,000 hogsheads have been taken in one port in a single day, thus providing the enor- mous multitude of over 25,000,000 of living creatures drawn at once from the ocean for human sustenance. Pilchards are not used in England except in Devon and Cornwall. They are principally exported, and are largely consumed in some parts of the continent during the season of Lent. The taste of the pilchard is very like that of the herring, but it is more oily. Even after much of the oil has been removed by pressure, it is still as rich as could be wished. THE PILCHARD. Pilchard and Leek Pie (a Dcvonshir© dish).—Trim off the coarser leaves from four or five large leeks. Cut the white part only into equal lengths, and scald these in salted water. Lay them in a pie-dish, tho edges of which are lined with plain pastry, put between the layers four salted pilchards which have been laid in cold water Uie previous day to soak, and put on the