( 1108 ) WES WHE "Westphalia Hams.—Westphalia is cele- brated iov tlio delicacy and flavour of its hams. A Westphalia ham needs to be soaked longer than one cured at homo. It should bo laid in cold water for twenty-four hours, di-ained, covered with fresh water, and loft for another twenty-four hours. "When sufficiently soaked, cleanse and trim it, put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Take it up, put it in a stewpan upon a bed of sliced carrots, onions, and celery, and add a bunch of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, tliree bay-loaves, a dozen pepper- corns, half a dozen cloves, and a blade of mace. Pour over the ingredients as much stock as will barely cover them, and let the ham simmer gently until done enough. Take the stewpan from the fire, and leave the ham in the liquor tiU cold. Take it up, draw oflE the rind, trim the fat evenly, put it in the oven for a few minutes, then press it with a dry cloth to free it from fat, and either glaze it or shake bread- raspings all over it. Tim.e to simmer the ham, about five hours. "Westphalia Hams, Mock. — Hams may be cured at home in such a way that they will acquire something of the flavour which belongs to Westphalia hams. To do this, rub each ham with one ounce and a half of poimded saltpetre and one ounce and a half of moist sugar. Let it lie for twenty-four hoiirs. Put a pound of strong stale beer into a stewpan with a pound of common salt, a pound of bay- salt, half a pound of brown sugar, one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of pounded cloves, and a little piece of sal-pruneUa. Let the liquor boil, skim it, and pour it boiling hot upon the ham, which should be turned and rubbed in it twice a day for a fortnight. Or make the pickle by boiling two gallons of soft water with two pounds of common salt, two ounces of bay- salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and a handful of bay-leaves finely shred. Pour the boiling liquor upon the ham, and turn and rub it every ■day as before. Bum juniper wood under the hams when smoking them. The Westphalia hams derive their peculiar flavour not from the way in which they are cured and smoked alone: the peculiar nature of the food of the West- phalian pigs has a great deal to do with it. "Westphalian Ham Boiled Deli- cately.—After the ham has soaked all night in lukewarm water, it is laid in the kettle with a depth of about nine inches in water, a quart of wine, a, little rosemary, a handful of sage, thj-me, basU, marjoram, whole pepper, juniper- berries, and some whole onions. With these ingredients it must boil for four hours only, that is to say, to draw it. We may prevent its falling asunder by binding it in a clean old cloth. When completely tender, we take it out in the cloth, lay it on a dish, draw oS the rind after removing the cloth, and ornament it with the rind. The more it is garnished the better it is. When cold, lay it from the cloth on a clean dish, and tastefully arrange parsley about it. "Westphalian Sausages. — Take six pounds of lean beef and two pounds of cow's udder-fat; boil the meat, but let the fat only parboil; then mince them up as fine as possible; take about a third of the quantity of bread- crumbs, which have been soaked in the soup, the soup being well pressed from them; add salt, pounded pepper, cloves, and sausage-herbs; mix the whole well together, and fill fat ox- entrails which have been thoroughly cleaned. Parboil them; then smoke them of a yellowish colour. To be eaten with otlier things, or warmed with cabbage, or fried in ljutter. These sausages will not keep very long. Westphalian Sausages (a German re- cipe).—Take twelve pounds of any parts of the pork, fat and lean together, and cut it up. It should not be minced so fine as for other sau- sages, in fact the pieces should not be smaller than peas. Season with half an ounce of black pepper freshly ground, and a quarter of a pound of salt, sprinkling the seasoning among the meat on beginning mincing. After filling in the pig-skins, hang the sausages to smoke for a week. If to be eaten fresh, the sausages will be improved by hanging for a few days in a cool dry place. Wheat.—The cereal used in the largest quantity is wheat. With regard to its compo- sition, there would appear to be quite as much if not more nutritive matter in oats—a larger quantity of saline matter, and, in fact, of all those constituents of food which are necessary to the production of tissues, the maintenance of the animal heat, and the supply of mineral materials to the body. With regard, also, to barley, we find that barley has the same capa- bilities as oats—it contains all the constituents of wheat and of oats. We may also say in regard to maize, that it contains the same con- stituents—starch, nutritive matter, and saline matter—even in larger quantities than oats and wheat; and, in addition to them, it con- tains a very large quantity of fatty matter and of oily matter, which is not found in wheat, in barley, or in oats. AVhy, then, has wheat been consumed so largely by the most polished nations on the face of the earth? ^Vhy do barley, oats, rice, maize, and millet constantly succumb to wheat ? Where wheat wiU grow there it has been grown—in India and China— and where people can get wheat they will have it. I have no other explanation to offer, except that wheaten flour alone of all these farinaceous foods will make fermented bread. I do not know, however, that the time may not come when we shall find that the fermented bread of wheat flour is not so good as tMe unfermented bread from the flour of other grains, and that we may not have occasion to change our habits in this respect. But at the present time whe.it is consumed. Its product is more abimdant in districts of a higher temperature than our own, and it is always cultivated in this country with difficulty. Our really natural grains are barley and oats. Barlcv is cultivated as high as 70° of latitude, and also in the tropical parts of the western world; so that barley has a greater range than oats or wheat. The oat has a much more northern range than wheat, and of the throe, the wheat is cultivated in our northern