( 997 ) TBU TBir Time to boil, according to size. The fish is done enough when the eyes start. Sufficient for two persons. Half this quantity of sauce may be made, but the proportion sliould be maintained. Truffle.—The truffle is a kind of mushroom without roots, which is found at a considerable depth underground, principally in oak forests. As there is no appearance on the surface to indicate their presence underneath, pigs and dogs are employed to find them out, and when they begin to scratch the ground the men who are with them dig until they are found. There are three kinds—black, red, and white, and the difference arises from the different degrees of ripeness to which the truffle has attained. The black being the ripest are the best. Truffles grow on the Con- tinent much more abundantly than they do in England. Pcrigord, in the South of France, is TRTJPFLES. quite" celebrated for them. They are seldom eaten alone, but are used for flavouring pies, ragouts, and sauces, for stuffing poultry, and for garnishing dishes. When good they have an agreeable aroma, and are light and elastic. They are best when fresh, and lose much of their flavour when preserved. They are almost extravagantly esteemed by epicures, and are very expensive. The passion for truffles is an acquired one; it requires an education to un- derstand them properly, but those who have acquired the taste regard the truffle as the best of edible substances. Yet irreverent no\aces make light of them, and compare them to turnips flavoured with tar, and young people . seldom care for them. They are in season from I October to January, though bottled truffles i maybe bought at the Italian warehouses at any time. I'robable cost, fresh truffles, 6s. to 18s per pound; bottled truffles, Is. lOd. for a small itottle. Truffle Puree.—Wash, brush, and peel half a pound of fresh truffles. Pound them with an ounce of butter and press thorn through a hair sieve. Put them into a stewpan with half a pint of good brown sauce, and let them boil for ton minutes. Just before serving the puree, dissolve an ounce of glaze and an ounce of butter in the puree, and, if obtainable, add to it two table-spoonfuls of essence of truffles. Time to boil, ten minutes. Truffle Sauce. — Clean and peel four truffles, and cut them into squares of a quarter of an inch eaoh way. Put them into a stewpan with half a pint of good brown sauce, and stir over a gentle fire for ten minutes. Add a glassful of sherry, and, if liked, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and serve. Time, ten minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, fresh truffles, from 6s. to 18s. a pound ; bottled truffles. Is. lOd. for a small bottle. Sufficient for four or five persons. Truffle Sauce (another way).—Wash half a dozen truffles, and peel them, slice them, and lay them in a stewpan with one or two shallots or a little onion and parsley, a piece of butter, some salt, and a glassful of wine. Let the truffles stew closely covered till reduced and soft, then add enough gravy and water or broth, some flour thickening, and a little grated gin- ger. Boil the sauce again for ten minutes, and skim off the fat. Truffle Sauce (another way).—Take half a pound of well-cleaned and peeled truffles. Put them into a stewpan with as much brown gravy as will cover them, and put with them a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a shallot, and an ounce of butter. Let them simmer very gently until tender, and when they are half done put a glassful of sherry into the sauco. Take them out, drain them, and cut them into thin slices. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a little brown thickening, heat the slices in the sauce, and serve very hot. Time to boil th« truffles, about one hour. Truffled Butter {see Butter, Truffled). Truffles (a la Serviette) .—Wash the truffles in several waters, brush them thoroughly to free them from earth and grit, and drain them. Line a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the truffles, cover wdth rich veal gravy, and add a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, five or six cloves, a bunch of small onions, and three or four sticks of celery, with a glassful of wine or not. Simmer the truffles gently until done enough, and let them get cold m the Uquor. When wanted for table heat them agam, drain them well, and dish them in a folded napkin. Truffles a la Serviette are usually sent to table with a little cold butter on a separate dish, and without sauce. Time to simmer half to three-quarters of an hour. Truffles (a la Serviette—another way).— Wash the truffles in several waters, and brush them thoroughly. Wrap them separately in buttered paper, and bake them in a hot oven or toast them before the fire in a Dutch oven turning them frequently that they may be equally cooked. Eemove the paper, y^-ipe the truffles, and serve them on a neatly-folded white table-napkin. Time to bake, one hour. Truffles (a I'ltalienne). —Cleanse well, dry, and pare ten truffles, and cut them into thm sbces. Put them into a small frying-pan with an ounce of fresh butter, a minood shnllnt a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and ft little