SIB SHB (871) and mace. Strain the liquor, and let it stand a few minutes. ' Then pour it oS, freed from sediment, put it baek into the saucepan, and thicken it with flour and butter. Put in the fish, and simmer them till they are thoroughly heated. They must not boil, or they will be hard. Toast a slice of bread, cut it into small squares, lay it on a dish, and pour upon it the fish and sauce. Ser^e hot. Time to boU. the shells, twenty minutes. Shrimps, To Shell.—It may seem trifling, to those who know how to do it, to say anything about shelling shrimps; but when there is a right way and a wrong way, it is surely worth while to practise the former. When shrimps are boiled alive, the muscle contracts, and folds the tail beneath the body; when the tail remains extended after boiUng, it is because the slirimp was dead, and it will bo found soft and worth- less. There is a difference in the shape of the dif- ferent species of shrimps. The tail of the brown shrimp is quite rounded at the bend, like that of the lobster, whereas the tail of the red shrimp and the prawn presents a sort of knee or angle. To shell a brown shrimp, take the head between the right finger and thumb, with the left finger and thumb-nail raise on each side the shell of the tail nearest tha head; pinch the taU, and the shell will come away entire. At Honfleur, and other pai-ts of the Norman coast, the finest brown shrimps are picked out to be sent to table as plates of hors d'ceuvres, while the small ones are shelled, to make patties and vol-au-vents, by women who perform their task with incredible rapidity. Comfortably seated on a low, rush- bottomed chair, with their feet kept warai in a small tub or keeler, the sheUed shrimps fly from their fingers to the basin which receives them almost as if they were discharged in a stream by machinery. To peel red shrimps and prawns, take the head between the thumb and second finger of the right hand; take the tip of the tail between the left finger and thumb; with the nail of the right forefinger raise the section of the shell which forms the knee or bend ; pinch the tail, and the naked flesh will be left attached to the head. Shrimps will not shell easily if they are at all stale. Shropshire Pudding. — Take half a pound of stale brown bread, and grate it finely. Mix with the crumbs half a pound of finely-shred beef-suet, six table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, ha,lf a nutmeg grated, the strained juice and minced rind of a fresh lemon, and the well- beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. A spoonful of brandy may be added or not. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, and turn the mixture into a buttered mould. Tie it in a cloth, plunge it into fast boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. A little melted butter, sweetened and flavoured with brandy, may be sent to table with it. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Shrub, Brandy.—Cut oif in thin strips tho rind of a large fresh lemon, and put these in a bottle, with the strained juice of two lemons and two pints of best brandy. Cork the bottle closely, and let it stand in a cool place for four days. Strain it, and mix with it one pint and a half of sheiTy or Marsala, three-quarters of a poimd of clarified loaf sugar, and as much grated nutmeg as will stand on a threepenny piece. Filter the preparation, and it will be ready for iise. Very good milk punch may be made of the dregs which remain after the shrub is poured off. To make it, pour upon the drega three times the quantity of warm but not boil- ing nulk. Stir the preparation briskly for a few minutes, then leave it in a cool place for thi-ee days. Pour off the clear liquor, and strain the thick part through a tamis. Time, four days. Sufficient for half a gallon of shi'ub. Shrub, Lemon or Orange. —Take two lemons and six Seville oranges, or, if pre- ferred, take eight sweet oranges. Gi-ate off the rinds, and squeeze out the juice, then with each quart of juice put three pounds of powdered loaf sugar. Stir the sugar till it is dissolved, and put two quarts of best Jamaica rum with each quart of juice. Put the mixture into a cask, and shake it three times a day for three weeks. Let it stand in a cool place till clear. Filter, and bottle for use. Shrub, Orange or Lemon {see Orange or Lemon Shrub). Shrub, Rum.—Put a pint of lemon- juice to five pints of best Jamaica rum. With each quart of the mixture put one pound and a half of clarified loaf sugar. Strain, and bottle for use. If Uked, the whole or part of the lemon-rind can be infused in the juice to flavoui- it. Shrub, White Currant.—Bruise the currants, and put them on a sieve covered with muslin, that the juice may run from them. Dis- solve in each quart of juice half a pound of powdered loaf sugar, add a pint of rum, and bottle for use. Shrub, Whisky.—BoU four pounds of Demerara sugar to clear syrup with a pint of water. Skim carefully, and let it get cold; then mix with it the strained juice of four pounds of lemons, one pound and a half of Seville oranges, half a pint of porter, and a gallon of whisky. Put it into a jar, and shake it every day for a fortnight. Let it stand till clear, strain it off, and bottle for use. Time, a month to clear the shrub. Siberian Crabs, Preserved. — For preserving, the Siberian crabs should be gathered Ijefore they are fully ripe, as their fine acidity and agreeable texture are then in perfection; when mellow, they are mealy and juiceless. Fill the jars with them in order to judge what quantity will suffice, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and barely scald them ; the moment one of the skins begins to crack, take them off the fire, pour them into a stone colander, peel them (this operation is easily performed, for the peel will curl up as fine, tough, and thin as gold-beater's-skin); then, having made a thin syrup, put the fruit into the jars and pour it hot upon them, push down the apples as thoy rise to the surface in order to insure their all coming hi c^ontact with