( 578 ) PIS PIP Pippin Tarts.—Tako half adozon Flandors pippins, or any othor good cooking applos. Pare and core thorn, and put thorn into a saucepan with a littlo Luttor, luid Builiciont watei" only to prevent thorn burning. Lot thoin simmer until they begin to fall, then add four ounces of moist sugar, and the strained juice and finely-mincod rind of a Seville orange. Boil and stir tho mi.\turo until it thickens, then turn it out to cool. Put it into tjirtlet shells already baked, and servo cold. Time, about hiilf an hour to boil the applos. Probable cost, 9d. for the apple paste. Sulficient—according to tho size of the pippins. Pippins, Frosted.—Take half a dozen russets or ilibston pippins. Pare, core, and divide them in halves, then place them side by side, with the flat part downwards, on a buttered tin. Whisk the white of a fresh egg to a firm froth. Spread it on them, then sprinkle over them tho thin rind of a lemon cut into long narrow strips, and add a covering of powdered and sifted sugar. Bake in a moderate oven until tender, and serve hot. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Pippins, Golden, Preserved {see Golden Pippins). Pippins, Normandy {see Normandy Pippins). Piquant Sauce. —Mince very finely a table-spoonful of capers, a table-epoonful of shallots, and a table-spoonful of gherkins. Put them into a saucepan with a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper and three table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, and let them simmer gently for three minutes. Add half a pint of broth or stock, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, and a dessert-spoonful of brown thickening. Boil the sauce until it is thick and smooth, skim carefully, and it is ready for use. If brown thickening is not at hand, mix half an ounce of butter with half an ounce of flour, and stir these ingredients quickly together over a moderate fire until the mixture is brightly coloured; moisten with the stock, and pour it over the gherkins, &c. Time, a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for nearly a pint of sauce. Probable cost, lOd. Piquant Sauce (another way).—Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter in a small sauce- pan over a moderate fire. Throw in a table- spoonful of chopped onions, and stir them about for two minutes, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of flour over them, and beat it with the_ back of a wooden spoon to prevent it getting into lumps. Add half a pint of stock or broth, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then lift out the herbs, pour in half a wine-glassful of vinegar, and add a littlo pepper and salt if required; let aU boil up together, and servo. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for nearly thype-quartcrs of a pint of sauce. Piquant Sauce (another way). — Mix to-^ctlK^r a table-spoonful of minced capers and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put with them six anchovies which have been boned and pounded, tho yolks of thre(i liard-lxiiled oggs, and a talile-spoonful of dry mustard. Hub those ingredients with the back of a wooden spoon until they are smoothly mixed, then press them through a coarse sieve. Add a pinch of cayenne, and moisten the whole with two table-spoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar. Stir the piiste into half a pint of stock or melted butter ; let it boil, strain it, and it is ready for serving. Time, half an h(jur. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for nearly three-quarters of a pint of sauce. Piquant Sauce for Storing.—The month of August is the best time for making this sauce, and it should not be used for fully three months after it is made. Take equal quantities of young walnuts and large mush- rooms; put them into separate pans, bruise them well, and whilst bruising sprinkle a little salt in with them. A pound of salt will be sufficient for a peck of mushrooms and a hundred and fifty walnuts. Let them lie for a week, turning and bruising them frequently; then press them well, and drain o£E the liquor. Boil it separately until the scum ceases to rise. Measure it, and mix it in equal quantities, and with each pint of the mixed liquid put a pint of vinegar, haH a blade of mace, four allspice, two cloves, a quarter of an ounce of ginger, as much cayenne as will lie on a threepenny piece, half a salt-spoonful of mustard seed, a clove of garlic, and three shallots. Boil and skim the sauce for twenty minutes. Pour it out, and when cold strain it, and mix with each pint a glassful of port, a quarter of a pint of claret, and a table- spoonful of soy. Put the liquid into small bottles, cork and seal them securely, and store —as indeed should be done with aU such preparations—in a cool, dry place. Probable cost, uncertain. • PISTACHIO NUTS. Pistachio Cream.—Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, and pound them to a smooth paste, with a little rose or orange-flower water. Stir tho paste into a pint of thick cream, add a table-spoonful of sugar and a table-spoonful of brandy, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire until it is on the point of boiling. Pour it out, and when cold servo in a glass dish or in glasses, with a few pistachios, blanched and cut into long narrow strips, jgprinkled on the top. Probable cost,