( 792 ) BAL oiled butter, or some good joUy of moat (which many prefer to the finest Florence oil), and flavoured with salad mixtiiro, basil, or cross or celery viaof,'ar, horseradish vinegar, cucumber vinegar, and tarragon or clear vinegar, essence of celery, walnut or lemon pickle, or a slice of lemon cut into dice, and essence of anchovy." Salad, Cheap and Good.—Tako one pennyworth of mustard and cress, two penny- worth of watercress, two pennyworth of cooked beetroot, and a fourpenny head of celery; cut the beet into small dice squares; take a glass or Bilver dish, pile the boot into pyramids, do the same with the celery and watercress, and ar- range iill round the dish; heap the mustard into a pile in the centre; boil two eggs hard; take out the yolks, and mix them with a little mashed potato, a table-spoonful of vinegar, half a table-spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, and ketchup, pepper, ajid salt, two spoonfuls of milk, the same of oil, and a salt-spoonful of sugar; pour this over the whole. Salad, Cold Vegetable.-Almost all cold dressed vegetables, such as peas, French beans, haricot beans, artichokes, asparagus, cauliflower, cabbage, and potatoes, may be used as salads. They should simply be cut up, arranged neatly on a dish, beaten up very lightly with a simple salad-dressing, and gar- nished according to taste. Salad Dressing. — Salad dressings are frequently bought of the grocer, and sent to table in the bottle in which they are purchased. Though these creams ai-e many of them very good, epicures in salad always prefer that the salad dressing should be prepared at home. Mayonnaise salad sauce is perhaps to be pre- ferred to any other, and for this a recipe is given {see Salad Sauce, Mayonnaise). A foolish prejudice is felt by many persons against the use of oil in salads, but this is gradually disappearing, as the majority of those who are prevailed upon to overcome it end by being exceedingly partial to what they had before disliked, and they also find that oil tends to prevent the fermentation of the raw vegetable, and is, besides, an antidote to flatu- lency. Seeing, however, that this prejudice still exists, two or three recipes are given of salad dressings without oil as well as with it. It has been already said that the dressing should not be mixed vdth the salad until the last moment. Nevertheless, it may always be prepared some hours before it is wanted, and stored in a cool, airy place. When salads are much used, a good plan is to make sufficient for two or three days' consumption, and to bottle it off for use. No. 1. Put a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a tea- spoonful of mixed mustard, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar into a bowl. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and add, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoon- fuls, two table-spoonfuls of oil, four table-spoon- fuls of milk, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir the mixture well between every addition. The sauce ought to look like cream. A tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar may be added, or not. No. 2. Boil an egg till liard, aTid lay it in cold water for a minute. Strip off the shell, and i)ut the yolk into a bowl. Kub it weU with the back of a wooden spoon, and put with it a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a Baltspoonful of powdered sugar, and a pinch of cayenne. Add, first l)y droits and afterwards by salt-spoonfuls, a table-spoonful of oil, six table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and, lastly, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Beat the sauce well between every addition. Mince the whole of the egg, or cut it into rings, with which to garnish the salad. No. 3 (Dr. Kitchener's re- cipe). Boil two eggs for a qmirter of an hour. Lay them in cold water, and in a few minutes strip off the shells, and lay the yolks in a basin. Rub them till smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, and mix with them, very gradually, first a table-spoonful of water or thick cream, and afterwards two table-spoonfuls of oil. When these are well mixed, add a tea-spoonful of salt or powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and, lastly, and very gradually, three table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put the sauce at the bottom of the bowl, lay the salad on the top, garnish with the whites of the eggs cut into rings, and do not mix the salad till the last moment. No. 4. Mix a salt-spoonful of salt and half a salt-spoonful of pepper with a table-spoonful of oil. When the salt is dis- solved, put in four additional table-spoonfuls of oil, and then pour the sauce over the salad Mix thoroughly, and add a table-spoonful of good vinegar and a table-spoonful of tarragon or cucumber vinegar. Mix again, and serve. No. 5. Rub the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs till smooth, and mix in a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of raw mustard, a salt-spoonful of powdered loaf-sugar, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and the well-beaten yolk of a raw egg. Add gradually four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, and two table-spoonfuls of strained lemon-juice. Beat the dressing thoroughly between every addition. No. 6. Beat the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs till smooth. Add a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, a pinch of cayenne, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and, gradually, two table-spoonfuls of oil, the strained juice of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of light wine. No. 7. Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs till smooth with a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Add a tea-spoonful each of mustard, sugar, salt, and pepper, a table-spoonful of clai'et, and a finely-minced shallot or young onion. Beat in, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, four table-spoonfuls of salad oil, and, lastly, add a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a table-spoonful of white-wine vinegar. No. 8. Beat a spoonful of flour with the yolks of three eggs. Add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and three table-spoonfuls of water. Cut three ounces of streaky bacon into smaU pieces, and fry these till they begin to turn colour. Pour in the salad mixture, and stir the whole over the fire till the cream is thick and smooth. Pour it out, and continue stirring until cool, and add a little more vinegar and wnfrr if nocpssary. The sauce ought to be ns thick us custard. No. 9 (named Sauce ii la