SHE ( 855 ) SHE stick them in the dish alternately to leave room to put the brains in the spaces ; mask them •with the sauce of matelotes, mushrooms, and small onions, &c. This matelote is the same sauce as the financiere, only reduce a little madeira wine in a small stewpan, and put to it a mushroom, a small glazed onion, a small quenelle, tSrc, and put the ragoiit into the middle, and the sauce over the brains. Sheep's Brains, Roasted or Baked. —Four or six brains will be required for a dish. Prepare the brains as for stewing, and procure as many slices of bacon as there are brains. After they have been boiled and thrown into cold water, drain and dry them perfectly; brush over with oil, and roll them in highly- seasoned bread-crumbs. Put them on the bacon before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake in a well-heated oven, turning them about that they may be equally cooked, and basting them occa- sionally. When they are nicely browned, take them up. Lay the slices of bacon on toast, put the brains upon them, and send sharp sauce or tomato sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Sheep's Brains, Scalloped.—Soak the biiiins in cold salted water for an hour. Ke- move the skin, and pick away the fibres. Put them into boiling water in which vinegar and salt have been mixed, and let them boil quickly for ten minutes. Throw them into cold water for a few minutes, and drain them. Cut them into small pieces, and mix with them an onion or shallot finely minced, a few parsley leaves scalded and chopped small, a few drops of vinegar and anchovy essence, and a little pepper and salt. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, throw in the brains, and shake the saucepan over the fire until they are done enough without being browned. Cleanse the scallop-shells, or small scallop-dishes which sen-e the same purpose, butter the inside rather thickly, and cover them with a layer of bread- crumbs. Distribute the minced brains and the gravy amongst them, and cover all with a layer of crumbs. Brown the surface in a quick oven or before the fire, and serve very hot. This favourite mode of cookery may be advanta- geously applied to cold meat, vegetables, mush- rooms, fish, and shell-fish. Time to bake the scalloped brains, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Sufficient, one set of brains for two scallop-shells. Sheep's Brains, Stewed (a good I reakfast or sidodish).—Take four or six fresh brains, soak them in salt and water for an hour, remove the slrin, pick off the fibres, and put them into boiling water into which was put when cold a dessert-spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Let the brains boil quickly for ten minutes. Take them up without breaking them, and put them into cold water. Take as many thin slices of bacon as there arc brains. Put them into a saucepan, lay the brains upon them, pour over them as much stock or broth as will cover them, and add a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, three young onions, two cloves, an inch or two of thin lemon-rind, and a little salt and. cayenne. Cover the saucepan closely, and let- its contents simmer gently until done enough. Put the pieces of bacon on a dish, and lay the brains upon them. iStrain the liquor, thicken it with flour and butter, stir a table-spoonful of lemon-juice into it, and pour it over the meat. Garnish with sippets, and serve very hot. If liked, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence and a glassful of claret may be added to the sauce. Time to boil the brains the second time, half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Sheep's Feet {see Sheep's Trotters). Sheep's Harslet, Hashed.—Take the liver, heart, and lights of a sheep, and wash them well in several waters. Boil them gently till tender in salted water, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Llince them finely, season with pepper and salt, and add a seasoning of powdered herbs, if liked. Moisten the mince with stock, thicken with brown thickening, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot. Serve on a hot dish, and send potatoes and boiled carrots to table with it. A few pickles may be served with it, if desired. Time to stew the meat, an hour and a half, or till tender. Probable cost, variable, but inexpensive. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Sheep's Head.—Sheep's head has so little meat belonging to it, either inside or out, that it seems to many persons as though it were scarcely worth the trouble it gives. Never- theless it constitutes good nourishing food at a moderate expense, and when it is liked at all it is very much liked. Several recipes are here given for preparing it. It is one of the ancient national dishes of Scotland, and to dwellers north of the Tweed is almost always welcome, not only on account of its intrinsic excellence, but also because of the associations which belong to it. The village of Duddingston, near Edinburgh, was long celebrated for this dish. A sheep's head may be stewed with or without the trotters and the pluck; nourishing and wholesome broth may be made from it; it may be hashed, curried, or served as a ragout, or it may be made into a pie. When sauces are required for it, those usually served with cow- heel or boiled mutton are the best adapted foi- it. Some cooks prefer the head of a ram to that- of a wether, though it needs longer boiling. Sheep's Head, Baked.—Split the head in halves, take out the brains, and soak the head in lukewarm water for an hour. Drain it, put the halves together, and keep them in position by tj-ing string round them. Lay the head in a dripping-tin, put raw potatoes pared, and cut into halves round it, lay little pieces- of butter here and there upon it, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste frequently, and turn the potatoes about that they may be equally done. When done enough, serve the head on a dish, put the potatoes round it, pour the gra-vy in the pa.n over all, and serve as hot as possible. The brains and tongue may be served on a separate dish {see Sheep's Brains and Tongue), Time to bake the head, about one hour and »