( 839 ) SAV SAV firm, and, to prevent them turning, put a small j)iuch of ciilcined ulum in powder; when the whites are very firm, take half to mix with the yolks; then put all together, put the floiu- into a hail- sieve, and sift it over the eggs; mix gently with the whites, then butter a mould, and powder it over with tine sugar; put the biscuit into the mould a little at a time. Put some ashes on a baking-dish, and put the mould over this in the oven; the heat must be moderate. About one hour is requisite to bake this biscuit, and it must not be moved till it is quite done. Savoy Biscuits, Hot.—Take a dozen fresh eggs, break them into a vessel, which is to be put into another contaruing some water nearly boiling. With these eggs mix a pound of superfine pounded sugar. Beat them well in the vessel which stands in the hot water. When you perceive that the eggs are no longer soft, put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a silk sieve not very closely woven; mix the flour well with the eggs, which is done by shaking the sieve, then add about two spoon- fuls of orange-flower water. If you only use lemon, put in a spoonful of cold water. Rub a mould over with butter; powder some sugar round, fill that mould with the preparation, powder some sugar over it, and bake in an oven moderately hot. Ascertaiu with a little skewer whether the middle part is sufficiently baked before you take it out of the oven. If the biscuit is not very large, it will be done in three-quarters of an hour. Biscuits, like other pastries of a large size, require the oven not to be too hot, and therefore they must be kept in a longer time. Savoy Biscuits, or Ladies' Fingers. —These biscuits are used for making a number of fancy dishes. They contaiu a good deal of nourishment, and are excellent for the young and weakly when soaked in beef-tea or mUk. To make them, break six eggs, and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the yolks well, and whilst beating strew in six ounces of powdered and sifted sugar which has been rubbed upon the rind of a lemon before being broken. Beat the mixture till smooth, and add gradually three-quarters of a pound of dry flour and the whites of the eggs beaten to a soHd froth. Bake the biscuits in fluted tius sold for the purpose, lined with buttered paper; or, if these are not at hand, draw the paste in straight lines upon thick paper, or make little cases with but- tered wi-iting-paper. The biscuits should be made in the shape of a finger, three-quarters of an inch wide, and about four inches long. Bake in a quick oven. When putting the biscuits away, lay them in couples back to back. If preferred, a tea-spoonful of rose or orange-flower water may be used instead of lemon-juice to flavour the biscuits. Time to bake, eight minutes. Pjoba- ble cost. Is. 8d. per pound. Or whisk twelve eggs thoroughly with three table-spoonfuls of water, and add very gradually one pound of powdered and sifted sugar. Beat the mixture tiU it is as smooth and thick as cream, then stir into it one pound of diied and sifted flour. Mould it into long cakes, and bake in a slow oven. Savoy Cabbage.—The savoy is a large close-hearted cabbage, seasonable in winter. It may be dressed according to the instructions I already given for boiling cabbages. A savoy I cabbage will need to boil thirty minutes or i more, according to is size. I Savoy Cabbage (a la Creme). — Slice ' a savoy into thin strips, and in doing so remove ' the stalk entirely. Wash and drain it, and boil ' it in the usual way till tender. Turn it into a ' colander, press the water from it, and after- wards mince it slightly. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a clean saucepan, put in the . savoy, season with pepper and salt, and stir I it over the fire for a few minutes till it is dry. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over it, and add very gradually a quarter of a pint of thick , cream. Serve very hot. Time, thirty to forty I minutes to boil the savoy. Probable cost, 2d. I to 4d. each. Sufficient, a moderate-sized savoy for four persons. ' Savoy Cabbage, Stewed.—Take one I moderate-sized savoy—or two cabbages. Cut ■ it into thin sKces as if it were going to be ' pickled, and place it in a stewpan in which a shce of fresh butter has been ali-eady dissolved. ' Let it simmer gently for two hours. Take up the savoy, thicken the quantity of liquor which ' has run from it with flour, add pepper and ' salt, and serve very hot. A savoy or cabbage prepared in this way is much superior to one that is plainly boiled. Time to stew, two ' hours. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. each. Suf- ' ficient, one moderate-sized savoy for three or ' four persons. Savoy Cake.—Weigh seven large fresh eggs, and take their weight in dried flour, and a little more than half their weight in sifted sugar. Break the eggs, and separate the yolks from the whites. Beat the former in a bowl, and add the sugar to them very gi-adually, together with a little grated lemon-rind, a I spoonful of orange-flower or rose-water, or any ' other suitable flavouring. Add the flour a little at a time, and continue to beat the mixture for twenty minutes. Butter a mould, sprinkle powdered sugar upon the butter, and shake off all that will not adhere. Tie a strip of buttered i paper round the top of the mould to keep the preparation from rolling down the sides whilst it is being baked. Pour in the cake, and three- parts fill the mould with it. When done enough let it stand a few minutes, then shake it well to loosen it, and turn it out carefully. This cake is very good cut into slices, and made into jam sandwiches. Time to bake, an hour and a quarter or a little more. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Savoy Cakes.—Take one pound of fine sifted sugar, add the yolks of ten eggs—keeping the whites in a separate pan—and jet the eggs and sugar, if in summer, in cold water ; if there is any ice, set the pan upon it, as it will enable the eggs to be beaten finer; then beat the yolks and sugar well with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes, and put in the grated rind of a lemon. Beat up the whites with a whisk until they become quite stiff and white as snow. Stir them into the batter by degrees, then add throe-