( 634 ) POT POT m a saucepan with cold water, and boil up once JJrain and dry. Melt a slice of butter in a Irying-paii, ahako the slicea in this over the lire till brown, and serve. By way of variety, pota- toes nuiy bo fried in batter, a little popper and salt being shaken over them when they are fry- ing. Small new potatoes are best for this method. Potatoes Pried for Garnish {see Garnish, Potatoes Fried for). Potatoes, Fi'ied, Garnish of.—Cut the potatoes into any fanciful shapes, wash thom, drain them on a cloth, and then molt an ounce of butter, and pour it over them. Put the potatoes in a stcwpan large enough to allow thom to lie clear of one another. Toss them about every two or throe minutes till they axe brightly browned, and serve immediately. Potatoes, Fried (Gei-man method).—Fry in some butter small slices of bread and sliced potatoes parboiled in water lightly salted; serve them on a dish, and pour over them a little bouilli of potato flour; sprinkle with sugar, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Potatoes Pried in Butter.—Peel some raw potatoes, and cut them in thin slices. Fry them in butter over a hot fire, continually turning them, until they become sufficiently bro-svn. Let them drain; then arrange them on a hot dish, sprinkle salt over them, and serve. Potatoes Pried Whole, — Boil small potatoes of unifomi size until they are almost done enough. Drain them, and put them into a frying-pan sufficiently large to allow them to lie without touching one another, with plenty of hot fat. Shake them about till they are lightly and equally browned all over, and serve as soon as they are done enough. If liked, they may be dipped in egg and bread-crumb before they are fried. Cold boiled potatoes maj' be re-dressed in this way. Time to fry, ten or twelve minutes. Probable cost, potatoes Id. or l^d. per pound. Allow two or more potatoes for each person. Potatoes, Prost-bitten.—Frost seems to have the curious effect of converting the starch of potatoes into sugar. "When the tubers are affected by frost, or are what is called frost- bitten, they become sweet, and in this state are no longer fit for eating; they are usually given to cattle, or are used for distillation of spirits, or for making beer. If only slightly frost-bitten they may be partially restored by throwing them into cold water. Potatoes in Cases.—Wash half a dozen large potatoes, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done enough, cut a round the size of a crown from the top of each, and carefully scoop out the inside, tho'igh not so as to leave the skin quite bare. Rub the pulp through a colander, and mix with it an ounce of butter, two table-spoonfuls of milk, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is hot, then add the white of an egg beaten to a froth. Eub the skin of the potatoes with butter, fill them with the mixture, jMit the lids in their places, and bake the potatoes in a quick oven. If liked, the potato-cases can be filled with minced meat or forcemeat instead of nuished potatoes. Time to bake the potatoes, two hours at first, afterwards until quite hot.' Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for two or thiee persons. Potatoes, Mashed,—Boil or steam the potatoes until they are sufficiently cooked, and are mealy and dry. Carefully remove any dis- coloured places there may Ije upon them, put them into a bowl, and beat them with a wooden spoon for two or throe minutes, and whilst beating, add a little salt, a slice of butter oiled, and one or two table-spoonfuls of boiling milk or cream. When the beaten potatoes are quite smooth and free fiom lumps, put them into a saucepan, and beat them over the fire for a minute or two, till they are light and quite hot. Dish them Hghtly, and draw the fork backwards over them to roughen the surface. Or butter a mould, press the potatoes into it, brown them in the oven, and turn them out before serving. Or put them into a dish, and reserve a small portion of the mash. Press this through a colander upon the top of the potatoes, and brown the surface before the fire, or with a red-hot iron. Or press them into small buttered pans, brown them, and turn them out before serving; serve very hot. Time, half an hour or more to boil the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. to l^d. per pound. Suf- ficient, two pounds of potatoes for four or five persons. Potatoes, Mashed (another way).— Mashed potatoes are ordinarily prepared hy crushing the hot di-essed tubers with a rolling- pin or the back of a spoon, the tubers being placed in a bowl or dish, or on a pie-boai-d. A little milk, butter, and salt may be added or not, according to taste, and the potatoes may either be at once served up, or pressed into forms, browned ofl: in the oven, and then served. Potatoes Mashed and Browned,— Boil a pound of mealy potatoes in their skins. When done enough, peel them, throw them into a bowl, and beat them lightly with an ounce of butter, two table-sj)oonfuls of cream or milk, a little pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egg. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mashed potatoes into it, brush over with the white of an egg, ornament on the top, and brown in a quick oven. Serve the potatoes in the dish. Time, half an hour or more to boil the potatoes, ten minutes to brown them. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Potatoes, Mashed, Cod with (see Cod with Mashed Potatoes). Potatoes, Mashed, with Onions.— Boil and dry the potatoes, and mash them ac- cording to the directions given above, and whilst mashing mix with them two or three onions which have been boiled till soft and finely minced. The quantity of onion used will of course be regulated by taste. Some cooks, when the flavour is verj-- much liked, chop up a mw onion, and mix it with the potatoes. Time, from half an hour to an hour to boil