PIL PIN ( 673 ) cover. Bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is done enough, lift up the cover, dram oft" the gravj-, and put in its place a cupful of boil- ino- cream. Time to bake the pie, forty muiutes or more. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pilchards, Cooking of—Pilchards are very oily, and quickly deteriorate in quality, so that they are not often sent uncured to any great distance from the place where they are caught. They may be dressed according to the direc- tions given for herrings. They may be distin- guished from the herring by the fact that the fin is exactly in the middle of the back, whilst in the heriing it is nearer the tail. Probable cost, uncertain. Pimento, Allspice, or Jamaica Pep- per.—The tree from which the fruit producing this spice is obtained is a native of the West Indies. It is cultivated, however, almost ex- clusively in Jamaica, thus giving rise to the name Jamaica pepper. The designation all- riMENTO. spice is derived from the spice resembling in flavoiir a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nut- meg. The berries are gathered in an unripe state, when the essential oil contained in them is most abundant; they are then dried in the sun. _ The flavour resides within the shell of the pimento, which is, when dried, about twice the size of a peppercorn. AUspice is inexpensive in price, and agreeable in flavour. It is much used in domestic cookery. The berries may be bought either whole or ground. Pimento Curry {see Curry, Pimento). Pine-apple, The.—The pine-apple is a Iruit of dchcious flavour. It is principally grown in South America and the West Indies, though it has been very successfully cultivated in England, where it sometimes reaches a large size. The price is exceedingly variable, owing to the uncertainty of the supply. Pine-apple, Bottled.—Bo very careful that the pmc-apples are perfectly sound and ripe. Pare them, and remove the specks. Cut them into slices half an inch thick, and divide these into halves. Put them into drj- wide-mouthed bottles, cover them with syrup, and cork down securely. Wrap a wisp of hay round each bottle. Put them side by side in a boiler, with cold water up to their necks. Bring the water to a boil, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes. Draw the pan aside, and let the bottles remain untouched until they are quite cold. Wax the corks, and store in a cool cellar. The syrup, which is to be poured over the fruit, should be made as foUows :—Dissolve three pounds of loaf-sugar in a quart of water. Stir in half the white of an egg, and stir the' syrup over the fire for two or three minutes. Let it boil, and skim care- fully. In order to assist the scum in rising, throw in a spoonful of cold water two or three times. Strain the syrup through a napkin, and it wiU be ready for use. Time to boil the bottled fruit, twenty minutes. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap. Is. to 2s. each. Pine-apple^ Bottled, without Boil- ing.—Choose pme-apples which, though ripe, are perfectly sound. Pare then., remove the specks, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Weigh them, and allow one pound of powdered and sifted sugar to each pound of fruit. Put a layer of the sugar haH an inch deep at the bottom of a small glass jar. Place on this a layer of equal depth of sliced fruit. Press it down, and repeat until the jar is fuU, remembering only that the first and last layer must be of sugar. Fit the cover as closely as possible, to keep the fruit air-tight. Pine-apple, Brandied. — Pare, trim, and slice the fruit, weigh it, and allow one pound of powdered sugar to each pound of fruit. Choose glass jars which are as nearlj' as possible the size of the slices of fi'uit. Fill them lightly, without pressing them down, with alternate layers of sugar and pine-apple, remembering always that the undermost and uppermost layer must consist of sugar. Pour in as much brandy as wiU a little more than cover the slices, put on closely-fitting covers to exclude the air, and store in a cool, dry, dark place. Pine-apple Cardinal (a cooling drink). Peel a pine-apple, and cut it into thin slices. Put these into a deep dish, cover them with powdered sugar, and let them stand four or five hours. Put the rind into a small stewpan, with as much water as will cover it, bring it to a boU, skim it, and pour it over the fruit. Add six ounces of refined sugar and a bottle of light wine. Cover the vessel which contains the fruit, &c., and leave it in a cool place for two hours. When it is wanted for use, stir it well, and mix with it a bottle of seltzer. If a larger quantity of the beverage is required, another bottle or more of wine may be added, but it must bo remembered that six ounces of sugar must be put in with every additional bottle. If preferred, champagne may be used instead of seltzer. Time, seven or eight hours. Probable cost, pine-apples, when cheap, Is. to 2s. each. Pine-apple Chips. — Pare some pine- apples, ana carefully remove the specks or eyes with the point of a knife. Cut them into slices,