( 772 ) BOS BOS the time; then strain the mixture; put it again into the Baucepan, set it on the fire, keep stirring it till it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil, or all will be spoiled. To prevent it, keep stirring it with one hand, holding the other on the handle of the saucepan to remove it in- stantly. Strain the mixture a second time into custard-cups or a deep bowl. "This," says A. von Kochheim, " is a most delicious custai'd, as delicate as celebrated." Rose Drops.—Put a pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan with two ounces of water. Stir it over a slow tiro till it is dissolved, and add a few drops of essence of rose, and three or four drops of cochineal. When the syrup is on the point of simmering, take it from the fire, stir it a few minutes longer, and drop it in small rounds upon an oiled slab or dish. Let the drops cool, then remove them with the point of a knife. Or dry half an ounce of red rose-leaves, pound them to powder, and sift carefully. Mix with them one pound of finely-powdered sugar, and add as much strained lemon-juice as will make a stiff paste. Stir this mixture over a slow fire till it is scalding hot, then drop it in small rounds upon an oiled dish, and set them in a warm place for twenty-four hours. Rose Juice (a German recipe).—"To a pint of honey take two ounces of red and two ounces of white roses, two ounces of the fiowers of sage, and two oimces of the flowers of black- thorn ; pound them weU, and when the honey is clarified, put them in. Boil it imtil it becomes a thick syrup, pour it through a tamis, and put it into glasses. The thick sediment that remains may be also used, adding a spoonful or two of honey to it. Juices may be pressed in like manner from violets, pinks, and corn- flowers." Rose Sauce for Sweet Puddings, &C.—Take a fresh beetroot, peel it, and cut it into small pieces. Put it into a saucepan, pour over it a quart of cold water, and let it boil softly for half an hour. Add the strained juice and thin rind of a fresh lemon, two pounds of loaf sugar, and three or four drops of vanilla. Boil the sauce quickly until it forms a thick rose-coloured syrup, then strain it, and when it is cold mix with it a quarter of a pint of brandy. Bottle and store for use. Time to boil the sjTup, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, Is. 2d. Rose Tea.—Pour a pint of boiling water over an ounce of red rose-leaves. Cover the infusion, and let it remain for ten minutes. Filter it, sweeten it with honey, and drink a glassful cold the first thing in the morning. Time to infuse, ten minutes. Rose tea in some complaints is a useful tonic. Rose-water.—When the buds of the red rose begin to expand into the full-blown flower, their perfume is most perfect, and in that state they should be gathered on a iry morning, the heels cut off, and the loaves only put into a clean cask in layers, with salt spriiJded between them, to preserve them till they are collected in quantity sufficient for distillation. Fill the Btill two-thirds with the petals and salt together, with a little water at the bottom to prevent burning, and have the still put into a water bath; proceed to the distillation with a vory slow fire, and receive the first product in several phials in order to examine it. The first will bo higldy impregnated; and as soon as tlio slightest onipyreuuiatic odour or burnt smell in perceived tlirow away the portion that is contaminated! and stop the distillation. Rose-water should be kept m a cool, dark place, as heat and light speedily cause it to spoil. It is best to put it into a stone jar with a cork, tliat it may bo drawn ofl: without disturbing the sediment, which is apt to be the case if decanted from small bottles. It should be made in small quantities at a time, as it will not keep long. The salted leaves will keep for months, and do as well for distillation as when gathered fresh, and it is to be observed that it is an error to suppose that the salt is of any further use in the distillation than to keep the leaves from spoiling. Perfumed tepid water for finger- glasses may be easily prepared by infusing a few fresh or dried rose-petals, lavender, or any other flower, in the morning for the purpose. Rosemary.—The leaves of the rosemary are infused in some drinks, and the sprigs are employed as a garnish. The plant is evergreen, and highly aromatic. Rosemary and Baked Lamb {see Lamb, Baked, and Rosemary). Rosemary Flowers, To Candy.— Soak a little gum-tragacanth (commonly called gum-dragon) in water, and soak the rosemary flowers in the mucilage thus prepared. Lay them on a sheet of paper, and sprinkle powdered loaf sugar over them. Put them in a warm place, and sprinkle powdered sugar over them frequently till they are covered with candy. Store in a cool dry place. Roses, Tincture of.—Take the leaves of the common rose and place them, without pressing, in an ordinary bottle; pour some good spirits of wine upon them, close the bottle, and set aside till required for use. Common \Tnegar is greatly improved by a very small quantity of the tincture of roses being added to it. Roseneath Puddings.—Take two eggs, and their Aveight in flour, butter, and sugar. Beat the butter to cream, add the sugar, flour, and eggs, and any flavouring that may be pre- ferred. Butter some small cups, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve cold, with almonds sliced and cut into strips stuck into the puddings. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Ross's Mixture for Devilled Meats. —Put a table-spoonful of chutney into a bowl, and work into it with the back of a wooden spoon one ounce and a half of fresh butter, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of mixed mustard, a table-spoonful of Harvey Sauca a table-spoonful of vinegar, and four table- spoonfuls of good cold gravy. Beat the mixture till smooth, dip the meat to be devilled into it, stew it softly till it is warmed through, and serve.