SNI ( 884 ) SMI Smith's Gingerbread, Mrs. (see Gin- gerbmid, Mrw. Siuitli's). Smoked Beef, American. —Put tho Leof in brino, and turn tind rub it ovory day for ton days, llfuig it in a chimney over a saw- dust fire or a smothered wood fire, and let it remain for a fortnight, liub it over in every part witli black popper, and hang it in a cool, dry, airy situation. When once it has been cut keep it covered with thick paper. When it is to bo served, pare olf the outside skin and Bhave it into thin chips. If very salt, soak it in boiling water for a few minutes. With half a pound of beef dissolve a small slice of butter or lard in a frying-pan, stii- in tho beef, pepper it weU, and when it begins to fizz dredge a large tea-spoonful of flour upon it. Pour over it a quarter of a pint of boiling stock or water; stir until the sauce thickens, and serve very hot. If preferred, two or three ft^esh eggs may be broken into the pan with the beef and gravy, and the whole stirred briskly until the eggs are set. Ordinarily-smoked beef is cut into thin chips and served without f ui-ther dressing. Smoked Meat, Hash of.—Take some carrots, and cut them into long strips or little dice; stew them till quite soft in broth with salt and butter. Brown a little flour in butter, lund drain the broth from the carrots into it. Add to the preparation a little vinegar, sugar, and pepper; stir and boU it till it forms a creamy sauce. Take remains of smoked meat, and cut it into small dice or slices; add this to the carrot, pour in the sauce, stir the hash well, and let it stew for a quarter of an hour. If hked, a minced onion may be stewed with the carrots. This dish should he served with potatoes or klosse. Snail, Edible.—The edible snail of the South of Europe is found in the chalk and oolite districts of the South of England, where it is said to have been introduced from the Continent in the seventeenth century. This, however, is very doubtful. It has a shell about two inches in diameter and two inches in height, whitish or pale tawny, with four darker bands, often not very distinct. By the ancient Eomans it was much esteemed as an article of food: they fattened their snails in enclosures made for the purpose, and fed them daintily on meal and boiled wine. It is stiU in much esteem for the table in various parts of Europe, and is occa- sionally used in England. The common garden snail is probably as good eating as the edible snaU, though it is not so large. "The glassmen of Newcastle," we are told, " once a year have a snail-feast. They generally collect the snails themselves in the fields and hedges the Sunday before the feast- day." Snapdragon.—This is a Christmas dish of very easy preparation, cand the central feature of a favourite Christmas sport. It is common in England, but in Scotland seems to bo com- paratively unknown. " A quantity of raisins are deposited in a large dish or bowl (the broader and shallower this is the better), a?id brandy or gome other spirit is poured over the fnn't and ignited. The bystanders now endeavour by turns to grasp a raisin by plunging their hands througli tho flamoH; and as this is somewhat of an arduous feat, requiring both courage and rapidity of action, a considerable amount of laughter is evoked at the expense of the unsuc- ccssful competitors." Snipe.—The snipe is a migratory bird. Like woodcock, snipes, after being plucked and singed and the head skinned, are not emptied, but are roasted with everything in them as they succumbed to fate. The thigh is more highly esteemed than any other part. They are in THE SNIPE. season from November to February, but are most abundant and fattest in frosty weather. They frequent marshy meadows, and, during frost, the edges of rushy hills, and feed oil woi-ms and insects. The snipe is decidedly in- ferior to the woodcock. Mr. Galton ad\a8es that, when rank birds are shot, they should be skinned, not plucked, as much of the rankness lies in the skin: if unskinned, they should be buried for some hours, because the earth absorbs the oil that makes them rank. The breast and wings are the least objectionable parts, and, if there is abundance of food, should alone be cooked. Snipe Pie (a Danish recipe).—Parboil the birds m bouiUon and a little white wine, seasoned with a grated onion, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; make a forcemeat of three pounds of beef, which scrape flne, likewise a quarter of a poimd of fat pork; pound and mix it well to- gether with a little butter and the crumb of two roUs soaked in bouiUon; make rather thinner than for soup-baUs; season it with grated onion, "pounded pepper, allspice, cloves, mushrooms, and gherkins chopped fine; and thin it with some of the broth in which the snipes were parboiled. Line a dish this forcemeat; put in the birds with a little of the soup and a small piece of butter; cover with a thick layer of forcemeat; bake an hour and a half. Serve with a sauce as follows:—Half a pint of soup, a gill of white viine, a Uttle water, and a piece of butter roUed in flour, stirred tUl smooth; when it begins to boil, slice in pickled gherkins or lemon. It may bo mmli' in the