BIG KIC ( 752 ) dish, and Lako in a modorato ovon. Send Hifted Bugar to table with it. Time to hako, one hour. Pi-obublo cost, Is. 6d. Sutliciont for five or six persons. Rice Pudding, Rich (Soyer's recipe). Put half a pound of washed rice into a stewpan, with three pints of milk, one pint of water, three ounces of sugar, the peel of one lemon, one ounce of fresh butter; boil gently for half an hour, or until the rice is tender; add four eggs well beaten, mix well, and bake quickly for half an hour, and serve. The pudding may be steamed if prefuired. Rice Pudding with Jam.—Wash four ounces of rice, and drain it. Put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Add two ounces of fresh butter, and simmer again imtil it is quite soft. Pour it out, sweeten and flavour with any agreeable flavoui-ing, and beat it up with two well-whisked eggs. Turn it into a plain mould well buttered, and bake in a gentle oven. Turn it out before serving, and garnish with any bright-coloured jam spread round or upon it. Time to bake, half an hour. Pro- bable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four persons. Rice Puddings, Savoury.—No. l. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of milk till it is tender without being broken. Pour it into a bowl, and mix with it a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of white peijper, a tea-spoonful of dry mustard, three table-spoonfuls of grated cheese, and three eggs. Beat the pudding well, turn it into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Time to bake, about one hour. Xo. 2. Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of milk till it is tender and has absorbed the liquor. Turn it into a bowl, and wher\ cool mix with it a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, a dessert- spoonful of shred parsley, and two moderate- sized onions which have been boiled till tender and pounded with a slice of fresh butter. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and add three well- beaten eggs. Turn the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to ])akc, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice PuSR:.—Take a pint of rice-flour, and add enough boiling water or milk to make a batter. When cold, add four eggs well beaten, together with a tea-spoonful of salt. Drop this preparation in large spoonfuls into hot fat. Rice, Pyramids of.—Boil as much rice as is required in milk until it is very soft. Beat it well to a smooth paste, and press it into small moulds of a pyramid shape, or, failing these, mould it with a spoon into small pyramids al)Out tliree inches high. Take a little rice out of the centre of these, and fill the empty space with a savouiy mince of any kind. Serve the pyramids on a di.sh, and pour rich brown gi-avy round them. Garnish thv, dish with sippets. Rice Sauce: A Substitute for Bread Sauce.—Wash two ounces of rice, dram it, and simmer until tender in half a pint of milk with a moderate-sized onion, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Take out the onion and peppercornu, and rub the rice through a sieve; boil it up again vdth a little more milk if it is too thick, and dissolve a small piece of butter in it. A piece of mace or half a dozen allspice may be stewed in the sauce if liked. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Savoury.—No. l. Wash a pound of rice, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of water, a red herring freed from skin and bone and torn into flakes, three ounces of bacon (fat and lean together) cut into dice, a few peijpercorns, and a small sprig of thyme and parsley. Let the water boil, then chuw the saucepan to the side of the tire, and let the rice simmer gently until it is tender and has ab- sorbed the liquor. Turn it upon a dish, and serve hot. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. No. 2. Wash half a pound of best Carolina rice, throw it into boUing water, and let it boil quickly for ten minutes. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with half a pint of good gi-avy, two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of chutney, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, the thin lind of half a lemon, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of grated nut- meg. Stir the rice well, and simmer gently until it is tender and has absorbed the liquor. Serve very hot. Time, three-quarters to one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Savoury (another way).—Boil two eggs lightly, add a little butter to them, and mix them with a plateful of hot boiled rice. Use this preparation with meat or nsh: it will be found pleasant and agreeable food. Rice Savoury (another way).—Wash half a pound of rice, and throw it into fast-boil- ing water for five minutes. Drain it, sim- mer it gently with as much nicely-flavoured stock as wiU cover it, and when it is tender, ^vithout being broken, stir into it a slice of fresh butter. Mince finely the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and mix with them two ounces of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, ilix them with the rice, and serve hot. Time, about half an hour to simmer the rice. Pro- bable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Rice Snowballs.—Wash half a pound of rice, and boil it for half an hour in as nnich milk or water as will cover it. Drain it, and let it stand till cold. Pare six apples of equal size. Scoop out the cores -vsathout breaking the fruit, and put into the empty space a little piece of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a Uttlc grated lemon-rind or some powdered cinnamon. Flour as jnany small cloths as there are apples; spread upon each one as much rice, half an inch thick, as will cover an apple, lay the apple upon it, and tic it loosely but securely. Put the pud- dings into boiling water, and keep them boil- ing until done enough. Turn upon a dish.