( 727 ) Remoulade—French Salad Dress- ing.—This sauce is very much liko an ordi- nary English salad-dressing, and is used in the same way. It is also an excellent accompani- ment to chops or cold meats of various kinds. To make it, boil three eggs till hard. Throw them into cold, water, strip oft the shell and the white of the eggs, and pound the yolks in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard and a little salt and cayeime. "When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, and the paste is quite smooth, add, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, three table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and beat the sauce well between every addition. When it is quite thick, add the yolk of a raw egg, and afterwards, very gradually, one table- spoonful of plain or tarragon vinegar. The flavour of this sauce may be varied at pleasure by the addition of a tea-spoonful of Harvey's Sauce, two or three pounded shallots, a very small piece of garlic; or chiUi, cucumber, or shaUot vinegar may be substituted for tarragon vinegar. The proportion of oil and vinegar used may be varied according to taste. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the eggs. Remoulade (another way).—Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, about a tea- spoonful of flour of mustard, rubbed up with three or four table-spoonfuls of oil; mix these ingi-edients well, and when they are thoroughly incorporated add two table-spoonfuls of vine- gar, and a little pepper, and other flavouring materials according to taste. Remoulade is much employed in making the salad known as mayonnaise. Remoulade, Green.—Take a handful of chervil, and half the quantity of chives, pim- pernel, and tarragon. Throw them into boiling water for a minute, and afterwards squeeze them in a cloth till dry. Pound them in a mortar, and with them a table-spoonful of made mustard, and a little salt and cayenne or white pepper. Beat this mixtm-e well with the yolk of a raw egg, and add, fiist by drops and after- wards by tea-spoonfuls, three table-spoonfuls of oUve oil and one table-spoonful of %'iuegar. Pass the sauce through a fine sieve, and if it is not sufficiently coloured add a few di-ops of parsley or spinach-juice. If preferred, a shallot, a sprig of parsley, four yoimg onions, and four capers may be pounded and mixed with the oil and vinegar instead of the herbs mentioned above. Remoulade, Indian.—Pound the yolks of three hfird-boilcd eggs, and season the paste with a little salt and a dessert-spoonful of currj'^- paste or powder. Add very gradually, first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls, three table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and beat the sauce between every addition. When it is quite smooth add one table-spoonful of vinegar, or more if liked. Remoulade is prepared in this way in the West Indies. Remoulade of Cucumbers (an ex- cellent pickle).—Divide the cucumbers into quarters, take off the rind, and remove the seeds. Cut the sections into pieces about an inch and a half long, put th(!m into a largo earthen pan, and sprinkle an ounce of sjilfc over each pound of cuciunbers. Let them soak for foul" hours, drain on a sieve until all the moisture has run away from them, then drj-^ them in the sun for one hour. Make as much remou- lade as will bo required to bind the pieces of cucumber together in the following proportions: —Take a handful each of tarragon, burnet, chives, and chervil. Throw them into boiling water for a minute, and afterwards squeeze them well in a cloth to free them from moisture. Put them into a mortar with, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, four filleted anchovies, a table-spoonful of capers, and a table-spoon- ful of immixed mustard. Pound these ingre- dients until they form a smooth paste and are thoroughly blended, then beat tiiem up with, the yolks of three raw eggs. Add very gradually, first by drops and then by tea-spoonfuls, half a pint of best oUve oU, and afterwards about three table-spoonfuls of either tarragon or chilli vinegar, beating the sauce well between every addition. Rub it through a fine sieve, stir the cucumbers into it, and put the pickle into small bottles. Cover the mouths of the bottles with bladder, and store in a very cool, airy place. Time to prepare, six hours. Probable cost of cucumbers, 6d. each, when in full season. Rennet. — Rennet is the name given to the prepared inner membrane of a calf's, pig's, hare's, fowl's, or turkey's stomach, which is used for turning milk. It may frequently be bought ready dried of the butcher, and then may be kept a long time, if hung in a cool place, and covered to preserve it from dust. When wanted for use, a little piece about two inches square should be soaked in a quarter of a pint of hot water for four hours, and the liquor thus obtained should be stirred into lukewarm milk. Rennet varies so much in strength that it is not easy to say how much will be required. Ordinarily, a table-spoonful of the liquor in which the di-ied rennet has been soaked will turn two quarts of milk. For people living in towns the easiest way of procuring rennet is to buy a bottle of the liquor, which is sold by almost all chemists ready for use. Rennet, however, may be prepared at home, as follows: —Take the stomachs of two or more freshly- knied calves. Cleanse them thoroughly from aU impurities, and rub them inside and out with salt. Pack them closely in a stone jar, strew salt between and over them, and cover them up. A month or more before thej"^ are to be used let them drain a few hours, and dry them by stretching them on sticks. Some farmers pre- pare the rennet as follows :—Empty the stomach of a freshly-kiUed calf, and carefully preserve the coagulated milk it contains. Wash it care- fully, and put the milk into it again with som .' salt. Tie the openings of the stomach witl string to prevent the contents esca]>ing, and ])lace it in an earthenware jar with half a pint of brandy mixed with six ounces of water. Cover the jar closely, place it in a cool situa- tion, and let it remain for one month. At the end of that time filter the liquor through un- sized paper, and preserve it in small well- stoppered bottles. Half a tea-spoonful of this fluid wnll coagulate a pint of milk. Rennet {nee Curd).