they should he soaked in and ruhhed with a little tjuragon \ancgur a few hours prior to heing put upon the spit. The sauce for wild fowl is served, not in the dish, but in a tui-een. It is thus made—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pint of port wine, the same quantity of meat gravy, two or three shallots, a hit of mace, pepper and salt to your taste, and a dash of cayenne. Let it simmer ten minutes, then squeeze into it the juice of half a lemon, and thicken it ynth butter rolled in flour. Wnd Fowl, Salmi of—Cut off the legs, wings, breast, and rump of the wild goose, duck, widgeon, or teal, and put them by for the salmi. The head, neck, back, and giblets, if they are preserved, constitute the parings. Cut_ four shallots into several pieces, and put them into a very clean stewpan. If a plain salmi is wanted it will be necessary only to add a slice of butter, a bay leaf, a small piece of mace, and half a dozen pepper-corns. Let the whole fry until the ingredients are lightly coloured ; then dredge in a third of a spoonful of flour, and continue to fry until the flour is brown ; but be careful that the other ingredients do not burn. Now put in a large glass of red wine and double that quantity of veal gravy, together with the parings of the wild fowl. Season with pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer gently during an hour and a half. Then strain the gravy through a hair-sieve over the meat for the salmi, which must be ready in another stewpan. Stand this near the flre to get gra- dually and slowly hot through, but be especially careful that it does not boil. Give it a dash of cayenne pepper. When about to dish it up, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Wild Fowl, Sauce for {see Orange Sauce for Ducks and Wild Fowl). Wild Fowl, Sauces for—No. l. Mix the juice of half a lemon with a glassful of port or claret, three shallots sliced, a table-spoonful of Harvey, and a pinch of cayenne. Stir the sauce over the fire for five minutes, and strain it into a tureen: serve very hot. No. 2. Put into a tureen a tea-spoonful of essence of an- cho\'ies, a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a table- spoonful of ketchup, a glassful of claret, and a pinch of cayenne; mix thoroughly, and serve. No. 3. Slice three shallots, and put them into a small saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of clear gravy, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and six peppercorns. Simmer the liquor till it is strong and good, strain it, add a little salt, and sors'o hot or cold. No. 4. Put a tea-cupful of gravy into a saucepan with a shallot or small onion finely minced, an inch of thin lemon-rind, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer for ten minutes, strain the gravy, add a wine-glassful of port or claret, and servo very hot. A table-spoonful of Harvey's sauce or of mushroom ketchup may be added if approved. {See also Orange Sauce for Ducks and Wild Fowl.) Wild Fowl, Truffled Saute of.—Cut up the raw birds, and put the heads, necks, and giblets into a stewpan with a bit of lean ham, a ahoop's melt, four shallots, half a dozen mush- rooms chopped fine, the parings of two or three ounces of truffles, a bunch of herbs consisting of parsley-root, one bay-leaf, and a very smaU sprig of thyme, a Httle bit of mace, four grains of allspice, and a smaU lump of butter. Let these all fry together until the ham is bro\vn; after which pour in half a pint of port wme and half that quantity of broth. Stew and reduce this during two hours; then season and strain it. Now put the limbs of the birds into a stewpan with a pretty large lump of fresh butter; let them fry a short time, and dredge into them half a table-spoonful of flour. ^Vhen the meat is seized on all sides, but without being of a deep brown, pour the sauce into it, adding at the same time the truffles cut into slices, the parings of which were put into the sauce. Let the whole simmer very gently during ten minutes, then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve up on a very hot dish. Wilhelm's Cherry Sauce (a German recipe).—Having bruised three pints of cherries in a small mortar, boil them with a pint of wine and water; strain them through a sieve, and again boU with lemon-peel, sugar, cinna- mon, and bruised cloves. Add a level spoonful of potato-flour or starch previously mixed smooth with a little cold water, and continue stirring till the sauce is made. This sauce ia well suited for puddings and cold things. We might have removed the stones and boiled them in their unbroken state, then stirring in peach- water and half a spoonful of potato-flour. Williams's Pudding Sauce (a United States' recipe).—Bruise a stick of cinnamon, set it over the fire in a saucepan with just as much water as will cover it; give it a boil, and then put in a couple of table-spoonfuls of fine sugar pounded, a quarter of a pint of white wine, a roll of thinly-pared lemon-peel, and a bay-leaf; boil all gently together, strain, and send it up hot. Wiltshire Method of Curing Bacon. —Cut up a moderate-sized hog, sprinkle salt upon the flitches, and let the blood drain from them for twenty-four hours. Mix tho- roughly four pounds of common salt with one pound and a half of brown sugar, one pound and a half of bay-salt, and six ounces of salt- petre. Rub this mixture into the flitches and turn, and rub them in every part each day for a month. Hang them up to dry; then smoke them for ten days. Wiltshire Pudding.—Whisk three eggs in a bowl, and mix with them a pint of milk, a pinch of salt, and as much flour as will make a thick batter. Beat the mixture for some minutes, then stir in gently half a pint of picked red currants and a quarter of a pint of ripe rasp- berries. If more convenient, the raspberries may be omitted. Tie the pudding in a cloth, and plunge it into fast-boiling water; keep it boiling quickly till done enough. Turn it out carefully upon a dish, and cut it into slices three- quarters of an inch thick. Keep these in their original position. Put a little butter and hrown sugar between the slices, and serve the pudding hot with sauce in a tureen. Time to boil the pudding, two hours. Probable cost, lOd. or le. Sufficient for five or six persons.