BAD RAB ( 698 ) altogether, an hour or more. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9il. per pound, Sufficient for four or live persons. Rabbit with Jerusalem Arti- chokes.—Skin, onipty, and wiish a ])luinp j'oung rabbit. Cut it into noat joints, lay these in a saucepan, and barely cover them with boiling stock or water. Lot the liquor boil, draw the saucepan to the side, and lot it simmer gently for twenty minutes. Put into the sauce two pounds of Jerusaleni artichokes pared and sliced, and let all stew gently together till the rabbit is tender. Take out the artichokes, mash thorn, season with salt and cayenne, and add two table-spoonfuls of cream or milk. Beat them with a wooden spoon over the fire till they are quite hot. Lay the pieces of rabbit on a dish, pour the mashed artichokes over them, and serve very hot. Time, alto- gether, tliree-quarters of an hour. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbits, Choosing of.—"VSTien pur- chasing a rabbit see that the animal is fresh and young. If fresh the body will be stiff, the flesh white and dry in appearance, and of a sweet smell. If stale the flesh wiU be slimy and blue, with a tainted odour. If young the claws and the coat will be smooth, the nose sharp pointed, and the ears tender and easily torn; if old the wool will be mixed with grey hairs, and the claws long and rough. Rabbits ought not to be kept more than a day or two after they are killed. In order to distinguish ■wild rabbits from tame ones examine the paws and the tail. "Wild rabbits have hair on their paws, and the under part of the tail is of a reddish colour. Rabbits, Skinning of.—Cut the skin round the first joint of the hind-legs. Pull up the skin a little, and pass a knife along the skin inside the thigh as far as the tail. Afterwards pass the hand under the skin, and it will easily separate from the body. Draw it off towards the head. Cut the first joint off the fore-legs, and pull up the skin. Draw up the ears by passing a skewer between the skin and the head, and take off the skin. Cut the nose and lip, and draw the skin right off. Cut a slit just under the body, take out the inside, leaving the kidneys. Save the liver and heart, and take out the eyes. "Wash the rabbit well inside and out, drain, and wipe it dry. Rabbits, Trussing of.—To truss a rabbit for boiling:—Draw the fore-legs back- wards, and the hind-legs forwards, bring the head round to the side, and fasten it there with a skewer run through it and the body. To truss a rabbit for roasting: —Skewer the head firmly between the shoulders. Draw the legs close to the body, and pass a skewer through them. Rabbits, Wild, Stock Broth from.— Wild rabbits are sometimes used to impart the required gamcy flavour to stock which is to be used for certain soups. This stock is prepared as follows:—Divide a wild rabbit into joints, and cut hfilf a pound of veal into small pieces. Put these in a stewpan with a slice of fresh I butter, and stir them lightly over a slow firo till they uro brown. Pour over them as much water as will cover them, and brin^ the liquor gently to the boil, carefully removing the scum as It rises. Place it by tlic side of the iht:, take off the fat us it is thrown up, and simmer the liquor veiy gently. Add the vegeUljles and seasonings which are suitable for the intended soup, and when the liquor is suf- ficiently flavoured strain it for use. If the rabbit is not too mucli boiled it may be served with white or brown sauce. Racahout.—Racahout is said to be farina prepared from the acorns of the liarbary oak disguised with a little flavouring. The follow- ing is recommended by Cooley in his Jiecipes as an imitation:—Roasted cacao or chocolate nuts, four ounces ; tapioca and potato farina, of each six ounces; white sugar, slightly flavoured with vanilla, half a pound. This preparation, which is very nutritious, is to be used like arrowroot. Rack or Arrack.—This is a spirituous liquor manufactured at different places in the East. " Arrack," says MacCulloch, " is a term applied in most parts of India and the Indian Islands to designate every sort of spirituous hquor; a circumstance which accounts for the discrepancy in the statements as to the materials used in making it and the mode of its manu- facture. The arrack of Goa and Batavia is in high estimation; that of Colombo or Ceylon has been said to be inferior to the former ; but this is doubtful. Goa and Colombo arrack is invariably made from the vegetable juice iod-dtj which flows by incision from the cocoa-nut tree. After the juice is fermented it is distilled and rectified. It usually yields about an eighth part of pure spirit. Batavia or Java arrack is obtained by distillation from molasses and rice, with only a small admixture of toddy. When well prepared, arrack is clear and transparent; generally, however, it is slightly straw-coloured. Its flavour is peculiar; but it differs consider- ably, no doubt, in consequence of the different articles of which it is prepared, and the unequal care taken in its manufacture. In England arrack is seldom used except to give flavour to punch. In the East its consumption is im- mense." Radical Pudding.—Weigh four eggs in the sheU. Take this weight in butter, half melt it, and beat it to a cream. Add the eggs well-beaten, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, two-thirds of the weight of the eggs in flour, and a little lemon or almond flavouring. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, pour the mixture into a buttered mould. Lay a round of buttered paper on the top, tie the mould in a cloth, plunge it into fast-boihng water, and either boil or steam it tiU done. Turn it out carefully, and serve with pudding sauce. Time to boil, a little more than an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons Radish.—To be eaten in perfection, radishes' should be freshly pulled and tender. When preparing them for table wash them thoroughly, and leave about an inch and a half of the stalk. Cut the fibres from the bulbs, and lay them in