( 807 > SAL SAL / scalding hot, but not boiling, tako it off, and pour tho water into a pan, and put it away m a cold place, leaving the fish in tho strainer. Place the strainer -^vith the fish upon it over the pan of hot fish-water, to cool together, where it should remain until the next day, when the fish should be placed again in the fish-kettle with the same water in which it was scalded; and when it is again warmed it is done. It must not boil. When there is more dressed salmon than can be eaten, it is par- ticularly good fried in batter. It should be shghtly sprinkled ^vith salt before the batter is added, and if there is any Granville sauce, a little of it put on the pieces of salmon under the batter is a great improvement.—Food Journal. We find the following account of the perfect mode of cooking salmon in Sir Humphrey Davy's " Salmonia: "—" We must now pre- pare him for the pot. Give him a stunning blow on the head to deprive him of sensation, and then give him a transverse cut just below the gills, and crimp him by cutting to the bone on each side, so as almost to divide him into slices, and now hold him by the tail that he may bleed. There is a small spring, I see, close under that bank, which, I daresay, has the mean temperature of the atmosphere in this climate, and is much under 50°. Place him there, and let him remain for ten minutes, and then carry him to the pot, and let the water and salt boil furiously before you put in a slice, and give time to the. water to recover its heat before you throw in another, and so with the whole fish, and leave the head out, and throw in the thickest pieces first." The rationale of this process of crimping is thus given:—" I conclude that the fat of salmon between the flakes is mixed with much albumen and gelatine, and is extremely liable to decompose, and by keeping it cool the decomposition is retarded, and by the boiling salt and water, which is of a higher tempera- ture than that of common boiling water, the albumen is coagulated and the curdiness pre- served. The crimping, by preventing the irritability of the fibre from being gradually exhau.sted, seems to preserve it so hard and crisp that it breaks under the teeth; and a fresh fish not crimped is generally trout." Salmon crimped in this manner, which pre- serves the natural taste, should have no other sauce than a spoonful of the salt and water in which it has been boiled, with the addition of a little lemon-juice (or, if that cannot be had, vinegar) and pepper. Some persons, however, object to the curdy state of the fish, and prefer it when it has been kept a daj- or two, when the curd has partly softened into oil, which g^ves a richer taste. Salmon, Imperial Fashion (Careme's recipe).—Tho fish being cleaned, throw salt in the inside, and rub some on the outside ; three hours after wash it in several waters, drain and wipe it, and fill the interior with a forcemeat of whitings. Keep tho fish in its first shape, and lay it in a fish-kettle with a. Mirepoix mois- tened with two bottles of champagne wine (the head should be tied) and as much fish stock. When it boils cover it with a large sheet of strong paper, buttered, and let it boil slowly for an hour, then let it cool in its braze ; take it up afterwards on the di-ainer, nearly remove ail the skin from it, and glaze the best side with a light fish glaze, to which you have added some crayfish butter. Slide it carefully on the dish upon a napkin, and surround it with parsley, on which place a row of crayfish; afterwards, with a row of the livers of burbots or carp roes, dressed as usual; when serving, garnish it with eight hatelets of aspics, ornamented with crayfish tails and carp roes; servo in one sauce-boat a white mayonnaise with aspic- jelly, and in the other a ravigote of oil, in which add the flesh of a lemon cut in very thin slices, and the j)ips removed. Serve cold. Salmon, Importance of. — " Salmon fish," Marshall observes, "are copious and constant sources of human food; they rank next to agriculture. They have, indeed, one advantage over every internal product—their increase does not lessen other articles of human subsistence. The salmon does not prey on the product of the soil, nor does it owe its size and nutritive properties to the destruction of its compatriot tribes. It leaves its native river at an early stage of growth, and going, even naturalists know not where, returns of ample size and rich in human nourishment, exposing itself in the narrowest streams, as if Stature intended it as a special boon to man. In everj"- stage of savageness and civilisation, the salmon must have been considered as a valuable bene- faction to this country." Salmon, Kippered.—This is a favourite breakfast dish in Scotland. After taking out the inside of the salmon, scale and split it; then rub the fish with common salt and Jiimaica pepper, and let it drain for twenty-foui hours. Mix together salt, coarse sugar, and a little saltpetre, and rub the fish well once or twice with this. Leave it in a tray to pickle for two days; then wipe and dry it, stretch it on sticks, and suspend it in the smoke of a wood or turf fire to diy. If less smoking is desired, the fish may be dried partly by the heat of a fire and the sun. Kippered salmon is eaten boiled and just warmed through. Salmon, Kippered (another way).—The following article on the method of preparing salmon-kipper in Scotland is quoted by Donovan from the Mirror-:—"All the blood is taken from the fish immediately after it is killed; this is done by cutting the gills. It is then cut up the back on each side the bone, or chine, as it is commonly called; the bone is taken out, but the tail, with two or three inches of the bone, is left; the head is cut ofl:; all the entrails are taken out, but the skin of the belly is left uncut; the fish is then laid, with the skin undermost, on a board, and is well rubbed and covered over with a mixture of equal quantities of common salt and Jamaica pepper. Some of this mixture is carefully spread under the fins, to prevent thorn from corrupting, which they sometimes do, espe- cially if tho weather is warm. A board with a large stone is sometimes laid upon thg fish