( 707 ) HAS BAS minutes. Probable cost, 5d. to 8(1. Sufficient for foiu- or five persons. Baspberries, Compote of (a German recipe).—Bruise ii quart of sound raspberries thoroughly, put them into a glass dish, and sprinkle a pound of powdered sugar over them. Let thorn lie in a cool place for a couple of houi-s, then pour over them a qutixt of thin claret, and a quart of cold water. Send sponge- cake or any Ught cake to table with them. Time, two hours. Raspberries, Iced for Dessert. — Take as many fine freslily-gathered raspberries as will be wanted. Whisk the white of an egg, and stir in with it two table-spoonfuls of cold spring water. Dip the raspberries one by one in the liquor, di-ain them, and roll them in finely powdered and sifted sugai-. Lay them on paper to dry, and arrange them prettily with other fruits in a dessert dish. Time to diy, six or eight hours. Probable cost of raspberries, 2d. to 6d. per pint. Raspberries, Prepared for Dessert. —An hour before it is to be used, take up the fruit, examine it, and carefully remove every hull, and every imperfect or decayed portion. Have ready a basin of cold water. Take a small handful of raspberries at a time, and pass them quickly through the water without allow- ing them to remain in it for a second. Put them into the dish in which they are to be served, and sprinkle powdered white sugar plentifully over them. This process wiU freshen the fruit, and not do it any harm. Care should be taken not to touch the fruit after it has been picked until within an hour before it is to be served. Raspberries, Preserved.—Those who grow raspberries in large quantities will do well to gather them before they axe fully ripe, and bottle without boiUng them, according to the recipe already given {see Raspberries Bottled without Boiling). It will be found that iovoc oimces of sugar will 4De sufficient for one of the wide-mouthed bottles ordinarily used. Raspberries, Preserved (a French recipe).—Take four pounds of raspberries picked from the stalks, set. aside at least half, which should be the finest, add to the rest one pound of white currants, and bruise and strain them through a cloth, wringing it so as to extract all the juice. Put the juice into a preserving-pan, and allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of juice, including the weight of the raspberries left whole. T^et the sugar and juice boil, skimming it, and at the end of twenty minutes put in the rest of the fruit, and let it boil for ten minutes longer. When the pre- serve is boiled enough—it is so if the syrup jellies when a little is put on a plate to cool— take it off the fire, and pot in the usual way. Raspberries, Preserved Whole.— Gather the raspberrifis on a dry day when the Hun is not upon them. Strip off the stalks, weigh the fruit, and allow three pounds of sugar for four pounds of fruit. Boil the sugfir with a very small quantity of water till it is quite clear, put in the raspberries, and simmer tliem gently for five minutes. Lift them out carefully, and drain them. Boil the 8>Tup tiU small beads appear on its surface, put in the raspberries, boH them another five minutes, take them up, and drain them again. Boil the syrup till large bubbles are formed, put in the raspberries a third time, and when taking them out be especially careful, or they will break. Put them at once into perfectly dry jars or glasses, and cover them closely to ex- clude the air. Store in a cool airy place. Raspberries, White, Preserved W^hole.—Pick four pounds of raspberries, perfectly sound and dry, and take their weight in refined sugar. Set aside one pound of the sugar, powder and sift it, and boil the re- mainder to candy height. Put the raspberries very gently into this, and let them boil for five minutes, take them from the fire, and sprinkle the pound of sugar over them. Let them remain until cold, then put them again into the preserving pan with another pound of powdered sugar and a pint of clear white currant juice, and let them boil gently until the fruit is clear. Remove the scum as it rises, and be very careful to take off the raspberries before they fall. Put them with a spoon one by one into jars, boil the syrup till the bubbles are large, pour it over them, and cover the jars in the usual way. Raspberry and Cream Tart.—Roll out a thin puff-paste, lay it in a patty-pan, put in raspberries, and strew finely-powdered loaf- sugar over them. Put on a lid; and when baked enough, cut the lid open, and put in half a pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a little sugar. Raspberry and Currant Jam.—Take freshly gathered dry fruit, and put a quarter of a pound of raspberries with each pound of red currants. Place the fruit in a perfectly clean preserving pan, with three-quarters of the weight in sugar in small lumps. Stir it occa- sionally until it boils, skim carefully, and boil gently for three-quarters of an hour. Turn it into jars, and cover in the usual way. Store in a dry airy place. Time to boil, three-quarters of an hour from the time the jam boils. Raspberry and Currant Jelly.— Strip the stalks from two pounds of juicy red currants and one pound of white currants, and put them into an earthenware jar with a cupful of fresh sound raspberries and a pound of loaf sugar. Put on the cover, place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it simmering gently until the juice flows freely. Pour it off, and strain it through a jelly-bag till it is bright and clear. Put two ounces of isinglass or gelatine with a pint of cold water into a perfectly clean saucepan. Stir this on the fire till it boils, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. A few minutes before it is taken off the fire, put in with it a spoonful of cold water, a lump of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of good vinegar. Stir it for a minute, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain through a jelly-bag, mix it with the filtered juice, pour it into a mould, and put it in a cold place or upon ice to set. Probable cost, 3s. 6d.