SAU SAU ( 836 ) mashod potatoes. Bond sauce to tahlo in a turoon (.vci; Sausages, Sauce for). As sausagoH, especially when made of pork, need to bo well dressed, care must bo taken to heat them very gradually, so that they may not be burnt outside before they are done enough in the centre. When the oven is moderately heated, they may with advantage be baked instead of fried. Time to fry, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, a pound of sausages for three persons. Sausages, Pried, with Apples.—Take half a poimd of sausages and six apples. Slice four of the apples into pieces as thick as a five- ghilling piece, and cut the remaining two into quarters. Fry them with tho sausages of a fine light brown, and lay the sausages in the centre of the dish and the apples round. Garnish with the quartered apples. Sausages, Home-made.—Three or four recipes are here given for making sausage-meat. Tastes vary, and tho quantity of seasoning used must vary with them; but the process of manu- facture is always the same. It should be re- membered that though scraps and trimmings of meat may be used for making sausages, they should be perfectly sweet and palatable, and should be carefully freed from skin and sinew, also that the sausages will be Ughter, though not quite so inviting in appearance, if the meat is coarsely rather than finely shred. No. 1. Shred half a pound of sound beef suet, and one pound of lean beef. Mix thoroughly, and pound the mixture in a mortar. Season with salt, pepper, and spices. If skins are not used, the sausages may, if Uked, be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs before being fried or baked. No. 2. Mince finely two pounds of lean pork and one pound of fat bacon. Add a seasoning of two tea-spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, two of powdered sage, with a pinch of grated nut- meg and powdered mace; finely-shred shallot may be added, or not. Thoroughly mix the seasoning with the meat; three-parts fill the skins with the mixture, and hang them in a cool place till wanted. No. 3. Mince separately three pounds of lean and two of fat pork. Mix them, and add three table-spoonfuls of powdered sage, two ounces and a half of salt, and one ounce of pepper. Blend the ingredients thoroughly. A small nutmeg grated and a tea-spoonful of powdered mace may be added, or not. No. 4. Cut the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, soak it in water till it is soft, then squeeze it dry in a cloth. Mix it thoroughly with two pounds of lean pork and a pound and a half of fat pork; add pepper, salt, lemon thyme, powdered sage, and grated nutmeg. Half fill the skins with the mixture, and bake or boil the sausages when wanted. They should be used as soon as possible, as tho soaked bread will prevent them keeping. No. 5. Mince separately a pound of beef suet and a pound of lean pork. Mix the ingredients, and pound them thoroughly, and with them two large table-spoonfuls of grated bread-crtunbs. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered sago, and bind the mixture together with the volks of two eggs. No. 6. Take half a pound of lean veal, half a pound of pork, fat and lean together, and half a pound of beef suet. Shred all finely, and mix tliuroughly. Add a quarter of a poimd of finely-grated crumb of bread, three sage-leaves chopped small, half a small nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and four inches of lemon-rind finely shred. A pinch of marjoram and of savory may be added if liked. Put tho meat into skins, or form it into cakes, and dress the sausages in the usual way. Probable cost, sausages, 9d. to 1 s. 3d. per jjound, according to the qufility of the meat used. Sausages, Lyons,—Take six pounds of lean jjork from tlio chine, three pounds of lean veal from the fillet, and three pounds of pork- fat. Mince the lean meat finely, pound it in a mortar till smooth, and cut the fat into dice. Mix thoroughly, and season the whole with ten ounces of salt, a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, three or four bruised shallots, half an oimce of ground pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of peppercorns. Leave the mixture for twenty- four hours. Procure some sausage-skins, and carefully examine them to see that they are thoroughly cleansed ; press the meat tightly into them, and fasten the ends securely with string. Lay the sausages in an earthen pan with salt, with a small portion of saltpetre under and over them, and let them remain for a week; take them out, and dry them in a smoke-house or in a chimney over a wood fire. BoU three or four bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, and a few sage- leaves in some wine-lees, if procurable. Dip the sausages into this, tie the ends with fresh string, and again dry them. "Wrap them in paper, and store in a dry, cool place till wanted. Sausages, Sauce for.—Lift the sausages from the pan, and put them upon a sieve before a fire to drain. Pour away all the fat except- ing about a table-spoonful, and if the fat in wMch the sausages were fried is at all burnt, dissolve a little fresh butter or fat in a clean saucepan. Stir into this as much flour as will make a smooth paste, rub it briskly over tho fire irntU it is brightly browned, moisten gradually with boiling water or boiling stock till it is as thick as cream, add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup or walnut pickle, and if necessary a spoonful of browning. Boil the sauce for a few minutes, place the sausages in a dish, and strain the sauce over them. Send mustard to table with them. Time to mal< the sauce, ten to fifteen minutes. The abo\ ingredients will make sufficient sauce for a pound of sausages. Sausages, Savoury.—Take equal quan- tities of fat and lean pork. Kub the meat w. ' with salt, and a little saltpetre, and pepper. ^ ■ lay it in brine, and leave it for six days. Tal> it up, mince it finely, and with it a couple ■ shallots or a little onion, and add pepper an ■ allspice to taste. Put it into large skins, tie both ends, cover with muslin, and hang the sausages up in a smoke-house for ten days or a fortnight. Rub ground ginger over the out^ side, and leave the sausages in a cool place tiu wanted. Boil tho sausages or not, according to taste, cut them into thin slices, and serve them cold. Time to boil, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound.