POB ( 603 ) flesh will be smooth and cool; if tainted, it will be clammy. What is known as measly- pork is very imwholesome; it may be recognised by its being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Pork Chops.—The best chops are those which are taken from the kidney end of the loin, and a little slice of kidney may be advan- tageously cut with each chop. In whatever way pork chops are cooked, whether they are fried, broiled, or stewed, care should be taken that they are done through. Every particle of meat should be raised to, and kept for a few minutes at, a temperature at least a trifle above that of boiling water. If thoroughly cooked vsdthout being di-ied up, few viands are more grateful than pork chops for taste in dishing, and for whatever pleasant adjuncts may be bestowed upon them. These may be con- siderably varied. Pork chops may be sent to table surrounding mashed potatoes which have been turned out of a mould after browning in the oven. They may be served on a puree of sorrel or a layer of spinach ; they may encircle a mound of brussels sprouts, with a suitable sauce pom-ed over the sprouts; they may be served on stewed red cabbage or chopped savoy; or they may be simply dished in a circle with tomato sauce, thick brown sauce, apple .jauce, piquant sauce, cucumber sauce, Robert sauce, proven9ale sauce, or shallot gravy, in a tureen. Probable cost of trimmed chops, Is. per pound. Pork Chops, Bread-crumbed and Broiled,—Trmi the chops as in the next recipe, season them pleasantly, and dip them in clarified butter, or brush them over with oil; then egg and bread-crumb them. Broil them over a clear fire; turn them frequently. Serve very hot. Send tomato or piquant sauce to table with them. Time to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for one person. Pork Chops, Broiled.—Cut the chops rather less than half an inch thick. Have a clear fire: make the gridiron hot before putting the chops upon it, and let them be at such a distance that they may be done through. Pepper them before putting thorn down, and two or three minutes before they are done sprinkle a little salt over them, and, if liked, a little finely- chopped sage or tarragon. Txmi them fre- quently, and serve very hot. Tomato sauce, piquant sauce, Italian sauce, or Robert sauce, may be sent to table with them. Time to broil, sixteen to eighteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two persons. Pork Chops, Fried.—Cut two pork chops haK an inch in thickness, take ofF part of the fat, and trim them neatly. Sprinkle them on both sides with a little salt and pepper. Melt an ounce of butter in a sjiutc pan, put the chops in it, and fry them until they are thoroughly done. If liked, a little powdered sage can be sprinkled over thorn before serving. Send Robert sauce, apple sauce, or piquant sauco to table in a tureen. Time to fry, twenty minutes—ten minutes on each side Pork Chops. Savoury.—Cut the chops half an inch thicK from a good loin of pork; trim them neatly, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them. Take a slice of fat bacon, cut it and the trimmings from the chops into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a spoonful of chopped sage, a finely-minced shallot, a salt-spoonful of salt, and half a salt- spoonful of white pepper. Add the chops, cover the saucepan closely, and let them stew gently for twenty minutes. Lift them out, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot. Pour over the herbs two table-spoonfuls of stock or water and a table-spoonful of strained lemon- juice. Let it boil up, strain it, and skim ofE the fat. Boil again with a glass of port, and serve it rovmd the chops. Probable cost. Is. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for two or three persons. Pork Collops. — Cut a pound of cold roast pork into neat slices. Trim off the fat, season with pepper and salt, cover up the slices to keep them from the dust, and put them aside. Mince finely two large onions and three apples, put them into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and four of sherry. Let them simmer gently until reduced to pulp, stirring them every now and then to keep them from burn- ing. Beat them until quite smooth. Broil the collops over a clear fire. Pour the sauce into the centre of a hot dish. Put the collops round, and serve. Time to broU the collops, eight minutes ; one hour to simmer the sauce. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the wine and cold meat. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pork, Curried.—Take two pounds of pork with a moderate share of fat. Cut it into neat slices, and fry these in a little butter until they are nicely browned; drain them, and put them aside. Put iuto the butter six onions and one apple finely minced. Move them about untU they are quite soft, and work them through a sieve by pressing them with the back of a wooden spoon. Mix with the pulp a table- spoonful of curry powder, a table-spoonful of curry paste, a dessert-spoonful of ground rice, three-quarters of a pint of stock or water, and a little salt. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boUs, put in the slices of pork, let these boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the curry is done enough. Take out the pieces of meat, boil the sauce quickly for two or three minutes, pour it over the curry, and serve. Send a little rice to table on a separate dish. Time to boU the curry, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, pork, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for three or four people. Pork Cutlets.—Pork cutlets are best taken from the neck or fore loin of small, dairy-fed pork, not very fat. They should be neatly trimmed, the chine bone removed, and the end of the bone bared about an inch. The skin should be scored at regidar intei-vals, and the cutlets flattened with a cutlet-bat, and then broiled or fried according to the directions given in the following recipes,