TEA TEA ( 962 ) hiilf a pint of warm water. Scoop a hollow in tlio centre of the Hour, and pour tho dissolved yeast into it. Mix a littlo of tho flour with this to make a thin batter, and place tho bowl before tho firo for an hour that the yeast may rise. Beat an egg thoroughly with two table- spoonfuls of warm milk. Stir this into tho batter, add a salt-spoonful of salt, and knead all thoroughly together, adding as much warm milk as is required to make a smooth dougH. Gash the surface lightly with a knife, cover the bowl which contains it with a cloth, and let the dough rise until it is quite light. Divide it into ten pieces, and roll these into cakes tho size of a saucer. Prick these with a fork, put them on a baking-tin before the lire for a few minutes to rise, and bake them lightly in a well-heated oven. They must on no account be turned over in baking. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Id. or 1 Jd. each. Suf- ficient for ten cakes. Tea Cakes, Yorkshire, To Serve.— No Yorkshire tea-table would be regarded as properly furnished unless it boasted a goodly show of hot and cold tea cakes. When served cold, the tea cakes are simply cut into fingers, buttered liberally, and piled crosswise upon a plate, \^^len served hot, they are heated in the oven, cut through the centre, spread with plenty of fresh butter, cut into quarters, restored to their original shape, and served as hot as possible. Or they may be cut through the centre, toasted, buttered liberally, and served very hot. They should be sent in one or two at a time, as they will spoil if allowed to stand. Tea, Choosing and Keeping of.— Tea should be chosen by the agreeableness of its odour, and as whole as possible, so that its leaf may be easily examined. In keeping it the greatest care should be taken not to expose it to the air, which destroys the flavour. Tea, Cold.—The value of cold tea as a beverage is not sufiiciently known. Literary men and others accustomed to a sedentary occu- pation would find one or two cups of cold tea taken without either milk or sugar to be as stimulating as the same quantity of sherry, whilst there would be no fear of the drowsiness or diminution of the working power which might arise from imbibing either wine or spirit. The taste for cold tea is an easily-acquired one, and worth cultivating by those who require an occasional and hannlcss stimulant. Tea, Consolidated.—Extracts, essences, and concentrated essences are to be met with in a hundred shapes, and amongst recent in- ventions we have consolidated tea. This pro- duction is made up in neat little tablets, each divided into so many different portions, thus showing at a glance the exact quantity required for use. As the tea will preserve its properties luider any change of climate, and is much less in bulk than that in ordinary use, it is likely to be held in high favour by travellers and officers of the army and navy. Tea Cream.—Boil a pint of cream and a pint of milk, into which throw a little salt and some sugar—the latter must, _ however, predominate. When the cream boils, throw two or three spoonfuls of good green tea into it, put in ten yolks of very fresh eggs, and proceed as usual upon the lire till the cream becomes thick, tlien ]jut in the isinglass, Sec, pass it through a tainis, and put it in the mould, and then to tho ice. If your mould is small, eiglit eggs are suflicient. Tea, Herb.—The following proportions are reconuneinli.-d by a well-known herbalist: —Agrimony, balm, toraientil, wild marjoram, of each one ounce ; red roses, cowslip flowers, black-cuiTant leaves, of each a quarter of an ounce. Cut small and mix. A heaped table- spoonful is enough for two persons, made as China tea, with sugar and cream, or milk if approved. Tho following substitute for tea is also recommended :—Hawthorn leaves dried, ten parts; sage and balm, one part. Mix well together, and use as above. Tea Made Overnight.-When tea is wanted for a very early breakfast, make it overnight, and pour it away from the tea-leaves before it gets cold. If this is done one need not fear that it will fciste bitter, as cold tea generally does when it is wanned up, for it acquires this taste with long standing on the tea-leaves. In the morning it will simply need to be warmed until it is sufficiently hot to drink —that is, until it has reached a temperature of 140° Fahr., or nine degrees above an average night temperature of 50"; whereas if the tea had to be freshly made it would be necessarj- to bring the water to boiling point—that is, to 212°, and this would take some minutes longer. Tea, Spirituous Syrup of.—Pour a quarter of a pint of boiling water on three ounces (avoirdupois weight) of fine young hyson. Let it stand an hour, then add to it a pint of brandy or proof spirit; let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day; strain it, and sweeten with clarified sjTup. A spoonful or two of this in a tumbler of water is a verj' refreshing beverage. Tea, To Make.—^A silver or metal teapot is better than an earthenware one for drawing out the flavour and strength of the tea. The amount of tea used must depend upon the quantity required. The old-fashioned allowance is a very sensible one, that is, one large tea- spoonful for each of the company, and one for the teapot. Before making the tea, pour half a pint of boiling water into the teapot, and let it stand for two minutes. Pour it out, and immediately put in the tea. Close the lid, and let it remain for a minute to heat, then pour upon it half a pint of boiHng water. Let it stand for three minutes, add sufficient boiling water to fill the teapot, and the tea will be ready for use. Be careful not to di-ain all the liquor from tho pot so long as it is necessary to continue to add Iwiling water, or the tea will be very weak; and if it is desirable to add a little fresh tea, lot it be brewed separatclv in a teacup before it is added to that which is already made, as ils strength will not be drawn out if it is put upon the old leaves. Perhaps it is unnccessarj' to say that unless tho water is really boihng when it is put upon tho tea there will be no good tea.' Unless tbo kettle boilinir be, rilling tlie teapot spoils the tea.