WIN ( 1136 ) contain of thomsolvoB Huffieieiit formontiii^^ piiuciplo. This liquor will formont, and tho VOS80I ahould bo covorod with a blanket. Whon tho tirst fermentiitiou in ovor, the wine is to bo transferred or rai-kod into a clean cask, and suliorod to uudorgo tho slow fermentation; it is thou to be kept bunged up for three months, and then racked into another cask. In about twelve months it will bo fit to bottle. 8ome add brandy after the first fermentation; but this is not necessary. A still richer wine may bo made by increasing tho quantity of fruit and leaving out the sugar. Wine Sauce for Sweet Puddings.— l\Iake a quarter of a pint of good molted butter, sweeten it, flavour with grated lemon or oi-auge-rind, and add a glassful of wine. Mix thoroughly, and serve very hot. If preferred, brandy or rum may bo substituted for the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Wine Sauce, Red.—This is a Danish sauce to be eaten with plum pudding. Take a quarter of a pint of cherry-juice and half a pint of wine. When the mixture boils put in a good spoonful of flour mixed with a gill of water and two or three spoonfuls of brandy. Just before the sauce reaches the boiling point take it off, and serve immediately. Wine Sauce, Tremblant, Beef with {see Beef with Wine Sauce, Tremblant). W^ine Soup (a German recipe).—Take two ounces of butter and melt it in a stewpan. In this brown two table-spoonfuls of flour, s^ir into it a pint of water, add three or four ounces of sugar, the rind and juice of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, and a bottle of wine. Simmer ten minutes. Place in a tureen the yolks of six eggs, pour over them slowly the wine soup, and send to table with toasted sippets. Wine Soup, Monastery Monastery Wine Soup). Wine Soup with Lemon (a German recipe).—Cut two lemons in thin slices, and take out the seeds. Cover the slices with powdered sugar in a tureen. Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan, and throw in a cupful of grated bread to brown. Keep the crumbs shaken or stirred tiU they are crisp, then strew them over the lemon-slices. ^Make a quart of wine, with a jiint of water and sufficient sugar, boiling hot; jjour it over the lemon-slices; cover closely for a few minutes, and serve with sponge cakes. Wine Soups.—Wine soups, made of light German wino, are very common throughout (Germany. They are very quickly made. Two or three recipes are given. No. 1. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir into it briskly a table-spoonful of flour, and beat the paste over the fire till it acquires a little colour. Stir into it half a pint of water, and add the thin rind and strained juice of haU a fresh ]"mon, half a stick of cinnamon, three table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a small bottle of light wine. Simmer the soup for ten minutes, break throe eggs into the tureen, and froth them lightly. Mix them with a spoonful of the soup. Add the rest gradually, and serve. No. 2. Ik)il two ounces of best rice and the thin rind of half a lemon in thrce-quarteju of a pint of water. When tlie rice is tender, mix with it gmdually a small bottle of wino, and add as much white sugar as will sweeten it pleasantly, llrcak two eggs into the tureen, mix with them a spoonful of the soup, and servo. No. 3. Cut a largo fresh lemon into thin slices, carefully removing tho seeds. Put them into a tureen, cover with powdered white sugar, and add a tea-cupful of grated bread-crumbs whicli have boon browned in butter. Mix a pint of wine with half a pint of water. Sweeten the mix- ture, and bring it to the point of boiling. Pour it upon tho slices of lemon, &c., let them soak for five minutes, and servo. Send small sponge cakes to table as an accompaniment. Wine-sour Plums, To Preserve (excellent).— Pick off the stalks, weigh the plums, and take half their weight in loaf sugar pounded. Tear the skin of the seam with a pin, and put the fruit and the sugar, in alternate layers, into a large earthen jar. Cover the jar closely, and put it in the oven in a shallow tin of boiling water. Keep the water boiling Tinder it. When the plums are soft, pour the syrup from them; boil it, pour it over the fruit, and leave them till cold. Do this several times until the skin looks hard and the plums clear. Let them stand a week, then take them up one by one with a spoon and put them into jars. Boil the syrup once more, and jwur it over them. If there is not sufficient sj-rup to cover them, add syrup to it, made in the pro- portion of a pound of sugar to a tea-cupful of water. When the plums are cold, place brandied papers upon them, and tie a bladder over, to keep them air-tight; otherwise, they will lose their colour. If stored in a cool dry place, plums thus preserved will keep for years. Time, about ten days. Wine-sours are plums peculiar to Yorkshire. Wine-sours, To Preserve (a more expeditious method).— Skin and stone the plums, and boU them till soft. Put with them thiee-quarters of their weiglit in sugar, and stir them continuously till the syrup will set when a little is put upon a plate. Pour the jam into jars, and cover in the usual way. Store in a cool di-)' place. Time to boil the plums, three- quarters of an horn- without sugar; about a quarter of an hour with sugar. Wine, Spiced, or Bishop. — lilake several incisions in the rind of a k-mon, .stick cloves in the incisions, and roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves, mace, and allspice into a saucepan with half a pint of water. I-<^t it boil till it is reduced one-half. Boil a bottle of port wino; bum a portion of the spirit out of it by applying a lighted paper to the saucepan. Put the roasted lemon and spice into the wine, stir it up weU, and let it stand near the fire for ten minutes. Rub a few knobs of sugar on the rind of a lemon, put the sugar into a bowl or jug with the juice of half a lemon (not roasted), ■pour the wine into it, grate some nutmeg into it, sw(-cten to taste, and serve with t.ho lonion and siiice floating in it. Granges are sometimes used instead of lemons.