STR STB ( 931 ) Strawberry Cream.—Pick the stalks from 11 pint of strawberries, sprinkle a tea-cup- ful of powdered sugar over them, bruise them well with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a fine hair sieve till all the juice has been taken from them. Dissolve an ounce and a half of isinglass or gelatine in three-quarters of a pint of new milk, add a pint of thick cream and the strawberry-juice. The cream should be whipped with a whisk before being used {see Cream, Whipped). Pour the cream into a damp mould and set it in a cool place till stiff. A few drops of prepared cochineal may be added to improve the colour. If liked, the juice may be drawn from the fruit over the fire or in the oven. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained, half a pint of strawberry jam dissolved in two table-spoonfuls of water and strained may be used instead. Time, five minutes to simmer the cream. Strawberry Cream Ice (a la Musco- vite).—Pick the strawberries, bruise them with a wooden spoon, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Take one pint of the juice tlms obtained, and stir into it until dissolved five ounces of powdered sugar. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in very little water, and add this to the juice. Let the basin containing the juice stand upon rough ice, and stir its contents without stopping \mtil they begin to set. Whip a pint of cream, and mix it lightly with the iced strawberry-juice. Put the whole into an hermetically-closing ice-mould. Put a little butter round the opening to keep out the water, and place it in the ice-pail with pounded ice and bay-salt round it at least three inches thick. Let it remain until it is thoroughly frozen. When it is to be served, plunge the mould for one instant into a basin of hot water, turn it upside down upon a glass dish, when the ice will in all probability come out in a shape. If however it will not come out, dip it quickly into hot water. Time to freeze, about two hours. Strawberry Drops.—Weigh two ounces of strawberry puree—that is the thick juice of strawberries that have been rubbed through a fine hair sieve with eight ounces of coarsely- sifted white sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon till it has become liquid and is on the point of simmering. Take it off the fire, stir it briskly for a few minutes, then lot the drops fall slowly out of the pan upon a baking-sheet. When cold, remove them with the pomt of a sharp knife, and put them in a warm placa to drj'. Strawberry Fool.—Take a quart of picked strawberries, ripe and finely-flavoured; put thorn into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of white sugar ; cover them closely, and let them stew gently for ten minutes, stirring the fruit now and again to keep it from burn- ing. Hub it through a fine hair-sieve with a woodon spoon, and when it is cold stir into it as much new milk as will make it of the consis- tency of custard. Serve quite cold. If cream is not to be had, and a rich dish is required, the yolks of two eggs may be mixed with the milk, and the custard may bo stirred over tho fire till it is on the point of boiling. Time, ten minutes to boil the fruit. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost. Is., made with milk only. Strawberry Glacis.—Take a sponge cake two or three days old, and cut it into squares, rounds, and diamonds. Boil a pound ' of sugar with a pint of water to a clear syrup, j Boil and skim this, and keep trying whether it I is done enough by di-opping a small portion of it at a time into a basin of cold water placed by the side of the stove for the pxirpose. If the sugar snaps when dropped into the water, and then remains hard, it is ready for the strawberry- juice, which should be added in such a quantity as to bring the syrup to 38". Take the syrup from the fire, let it cool, and beat it with a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth. Stick the pieces of sponge biscuit one by one on the point of a skewer, dip them into the icing, and place them on a sieve to drain. When all are done, put them in a cool oven for a minute or two to dry. Let them cool, and they will be ready for use. Strawberry Hydropathic Pudding. —Although instructions are given for making this pudding with strawberries only, any other fruit, or any mixture of fruits, may be made into a pudding in the same way. Take a basin the size that the pudding should be. Put at the bottom a round piece of stale crumb ol bread about the size of a five-shilling piece. Place round this, in an upright position, and about an inch apart from one another, fingers of bread, three or four inches long, according to the depth of the basin. Pick some strawberries, and boil them with a spoonful or two of water and as much sugar as wiU be required to sweeten them pleasantly until thej- are reduced to pulp. Put the hot fruit gently into the basin with a spoon, so as to disturb the bread as little as possible; cover the surface of the fruit with little odds and ends of bread cut up into small dice, and press the pudding by putting a plate upon it with a weight on the top. Leave it in a cold place for three or four hours, or all night if convenient. When wanted, remove the weight and the plate, turn the pudding upon a dish, and serve. It will come out in a shape. A little custard or cream served with it will be a great improvement. The pudding derives its name from the fact that, thus made, it is served at one or two hydropathic establishments where the patients are not allowed to partake of pastry. Time, about a quarter of an hour to boil the straw^berries. Strawberry Ice and Vanilla Ice in one mould.—Flavour three-quarters of a pint of cream with half a stick of vanilla, by boiling them gently together for a short time; sweeten the cream, mix with it the well-whisked yolks of three eggs, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken. Strain it into a bowl. Rub ripe strawberries through a sieve, and take half a pint of the juice. Tho- I roughly mix with this half a pint of syrup at I 35°, and freeze the two creams in the usual way. Put an ice-mould in ice for a short time. Placo [ in the middle of it a piece of cardboard, cut so aa to fit the mould, and to divide it into two equal I parte. Put tho vanilla ice at one side of the