( 673 ) QUA PujI, Take ten pounds of wormwood, six pounds of gentian, two pounds of di-ied rind of orange, half a pound of bruised ginger, two ounces of cloves, and eight ounces of carda- momtims. Put these ingredients in six gallons of water, boil the mixtui-e, then digest for foui-teen or fifteen days, and decant into wine bottles. Add this to warm beer, according to taste. Purl (another way).—Take half a pint of ale, and warm it gently; then add to it one wine-glassful of bitters, or a little spirit. Purl is a favourite early morning beverage with hard drinkers. Purl (another way).—"Warm a pint of ale with a quarter of a pint of milk,_ and add some sugar and a wine-glassful of gin, brandy, or rum. This beverage is now little used, except amongst the lower classes in and about the metropolis. Purslain.—This plant is a native of South America. The young shoots and succulent leaves used to be frequently employed as a cooling ingredient in spring salads. Putrefaction.—The process of putrefac- tion is thus described by Baron Liebig :—"The sulphurised and nitrogenised constituents of- plants and animals are among the most complex organic atoms. From the instant that they, after being separated from the organism, come in contact with the air, they pass into a state of decomposition, which, when once com- menced, continues, even if the air be now ex- cluded. The colourless, fresh-cut surface of a potato, of a turnip, or of an apple, when ex- posed to the air, soon becomes brown. In all such substances the presence of a certain quantity of water, in which the molecules are enabled to move freely on one another, is a con- dition necessary to the production, by tempo- rary contact with air, of a change in form and composition, a resoMng of the original body into new products, which continues uninter- ruptedly till no part of the original compound is left. This process has been distinguished by the name ai putrefaction.''^ Pyramid, Italian (see Italian PjTamid). Pyramids, PuiFiPaste {see Pufi Paste Rings or Pyramids).—A pretty Dish for a Juvenile Party. Psrroligneous Acid has .the remarkable property of preventing the putrefaction of animal substances. It is well known that meat that has been smoked keeps better than that wluch has been dried without smoke; and it is now ascertained that this eifect depends on the pyroligncous acid that rises with the smoke of the wood or turf which are employed in smoking it. When carefully purified and pro- perly diluted with water, pyroligneous acid is used extensively as a substitute for common vinegar in pickling, and even for common use. Q Quail, The. — The quail will keep for fiovfiral days before it is dressed. It may either be drawn before being roasted, or, like the W woodcock, bo roasted without being drawn. As it is rather deficient in flavour; a slice of fat bacon and a vine-leaf are g-enerally tied over it, before putting it to tho firp. Quails, Dr. boran teUs us, are variously said either to have recalled Hercules to life or to have cured him of epUepsy. The Romans, however, rather feared them, as tending to cause epileptic fits. Galen thought so ; Aristotle took a different view; the Greeljs devoured them as readily as though they had Aris- totle's special authorisation, but the Romans were only slowly converted to the same way of thinking. " Quails, in my opinion," says M. Ude, "have no flavour, and from the cir- cumstance of confinement and bad feeding, are never very fat; it is only their raricy that makes them fashionable. They must be served as roast only." THE QUAIL. Quails, Compote of.—Take six or eight quails, according to the size of the dish. Cut the claws off, and emptji" the birds, without making too large an opening. Truss them with the legs inward. Have a dozen pieces of bacon cut in the shape of corks, blanch them in order to draw the salt out, then let them fry in butter till they are of a light brown; next take them out of the stewpan to make room for the quails, which stew till they begin to bo of a light brown also, and then take them out. Make a roux, which moisten with a ladleful of gravy of veal; add a bunch of parsley and gi-een onions, some small white onions (if approved of), mushrooms, &c. As soon as the quails arc done, take them out of the stewpan, and let the bacon, stew tiU thoroughly done. Skim the sauce well, and strain it through a tammy over the quails; then dish the bacon, mushrooms, and smaU onions, and send iqo quite hot and well seasoned. " This dish," says M. IJde, " will not do for an English dinner." Quails, Galantine of. — I^one half a dozen quails. Tliis is a delicate and trouble- some process, and if the cook cannot manage it she had better let it be done by the poulterer. Mince finely the livers of tlie birds, and mix