REQ ( 72b ; 3&EL bovorago. Soasoning of all kinds should bo avoided, and nothing should bo taken that can, by stimulating the systom, induce a too early niatuiity before the constitution is ripened for it by yoai-8. " With complete adolescence the quantity of food necessary for the period of growth should be abridged ; but from the active scenes of life in which the body is then engaged, the food should be of a more stimulating nature, and a proper proportion of animal food interposed. The proportion, however, must be regulated by circumstances; thus, those who pursue a seden- tary and studious mode of life should be more sparing in the use of animal food and stimulant drink; for by excess of nourishment to the body the intellects are found proportionally weakened. Those of a firm and vigorous habit possess a strong disposition to inflammatory diseases. Excesses, therefore, should be par- ticularly avoided by them, especially in the case of fermented drink. When the constitu- tion is delicate and irritable, a diet moderately stimulating is the most suitable, with a very sparing use of fermented liquors. The sanguine should confine their diet chiefly to vegetable food, and their drink to water without any im- pregnation. The phlegmatic habit admits a greater latitude in the use of a stimulating diet than any other, and both seasoning and stimu- lating drink will prove less hurtful to such a constitution; the chief point is to guard against corpulency. When a cby habit prevails, young meat, with fruits and fresh vegetables, forms the best regimen ; and in point of drink, good wine, diluted with water, is preferable. " With respect to drink, at all periods of life temperance is necessary; strong liquors are, indeed, best suited to cold climates, and here they are generally used to excess. In warm climates, though their temporary use may be called for at intervals, the practice should not be indulged. " The diet of age, or after fifty-five, should return somewhat to the early periods of life. The proportion of solid meat should be lessened, and the diet recommended for youth adopted; thus broth and liquid food should mostly be used, and all nourishment taken of an easy digestion, with a moderate use of seasoning. The appe- tite is more languid, and the machine requires to be stimulated. Well-fermented liquors, espe- cially wine, are also proper, for the system must be in\'igorated and suppoi-ted, imless the subject be of a full habit, or disposed to apoplexy." If an attention to diet be necessary in health, it is certainly still more so under disease. The following useful tables of diet are given by the .author from whom we have just quoted in his " Medical Guide :"— Low OR Fevek Diet.—Panada, thin gruel, milk with barley-water, arrowroot, jeUy niade with water, plain bread pudding, salep, tapioca, weak chicken or veal broth. Drink : Barley- water, acidulated with lemon or orange-juice, decoction of apples, tamarind water (if the bowels be not disordered), balm, mint, or orange-flower tea. Medium or Convalescent Diet.—Kice, *.moUna or broad pudding, blancmange, thin clarified calf's-foot jolly, flounder or sole, fowl, veal, rabbit, or lamb simj)ly dressed. Lrink : Fresh small Ijeer, weak porter, diluted port, or madeira, or claret. Genehouk or Full Diwr.—Breakfast: Cocott, chocolate, or tea, with bread and butter. iJin- ner: Gravy, soup, or fish, with rabbit, beef, mutton, bimb, veal, or game, and mealy pota- toes mashed, or Jeruiialem artichokes; light pudding. Drink : Cider, perry, or porter, with a glass or two of port, sherry, or madeira, or three gliissex of claret, hock, moselle, &c. Supper : Mutton broth, gruel, or a little meat and bread, with porter or ale. Reindeer.—Dr. Richardson says that when the reindeer is in good condition it is equal, if not superior, in flavour to the finest venison. Sir John Ross declares that the meat of the reindeer killed in August has several inches thick of fat on the haimches. It is most taste- less and insipid when in poor condition. The contents of the stomach of the reindeer are considered a great delicacy by the inhabitants of the Arctic regions. Reindeer Tongue, to Boil.—Soak the tongue in cold water for three hours. Put it in an airy situation till dry, then soak it again, and repeat this process three times. When it is to be dressed scrape it well, put it into a saucepan with as much cold water as will cover it, bring it slowly to the boU, and skim it well. Draw KEINDEKE TOMG0K. the saucepan to the side, and simmer the tongue until it is tender. Son-e on a neatly-folded table-napkin, and garnish the dish with parsley. Time to simmer, three ho\u-s. Sufficient for a small breakfast or luncheon dish. Relishes, or Hors-d'cBuvres.—Thisis the name given to small dishes wliich are handed round after the soup and fish, and are intended to serve as relishes or incentives to the appetite. They consist of anchovies, olives, sardines, oysters, pickled heirings, radishes, oiled salads, shell-fish, and dishes of a like description. Or, if hot, of pasties of all kinds, i-issoles, croquettes, sweetbreads. &c. They are generally served on small oval dishes. Relishing Sauce (for broiled bones, fowls, meat, fisli, &c.).—Put into a stewpan a table- spoonful of chopped onions ynih one of chilh vinegar, one of common vinegar, three of water, two of mushroom ketchup, two of Harvey s Sauce, and one of anchovies ; add to it a pint of melted butter, let it simmer until it adheres to the back of the spoon; add half a tea-spoontu* of sugar; it is then ready for use.