QUI ( G82 ) RAB add to it an equal quantity of brandy. Allow Bi.x ounces of sugiir to eacli quart of the mixture, with some cinnamon and cloves to taste. Lot it infuse for two months, then filter it, and pour it into bottles. This liqueur, when old, is excel- lent. Quin's Sauce (An old-fasliionod fisli sauce).—Put a quarter of a pint of walnut pickle into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of port, half a pint of mushroom ketchup, a dozen anchovies, boned and pounded, a dozen sliced shallots, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of soy. Simmer all gently for ton minutes, strain tlio sauce, and, when cold, bottle for use. Securely corked and stored in a cool place, the sauce will keep for some time. Quin's Sauce (another way).—To a quart of walnut pickle add six anchovies, six bay- leaves, six shallots, three cloves, a blade of mace, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and a dozen peppercorns. Boil the whole until the anchovies are dissolved. Take it off the fire; when cold, add half a pint of red wine, and bottle the sauce, corking the bottles well. Quin's Sauce (another way).—To half a pint of mushroom ketchup add a quarter of a pint of walnut pickle, three anchovies, two cloves of garlic pounded, and as much cayenne pepper as will cover a shilling. Put it into a bottle and shake it well; it is then fit for use. It must be kept in a well-corked bottle. Quin's Sauce (another way).—The fol- lowing is Dr. Kitchiner's recipe for this sauce: — "It was given me," he says, "by a very sagacious sauce-maker." Two wine-glassfuls of port and two of walnut pickle, foui- of mush- room ketchup, half a dozen of anchovies pounded, the like number of eschalots sliced and pounded, a table-spoonful of soy, and half a drachm of cayenne pepper. Let them simmer gently for ten minutes; strain it, and, when cold, put it into bottles well corked and sealed over; it will keep for a considerable time. R Rabbit.—There are two sorts—the tame and the wild. Tame rabbits are the larger of the two, with the flesh white and delicate. Of these the Ostend rabbits are most highly valued. Wild rabbits are considered to possess the finest flavour. Rabbits are highly esteemed, for food, and are valuable because they can be served in so many ways. As the meat is rather dry, bacon is generally served with them. When used for the table, they should be young, and should not have been kept more than a day or two. They have been more thought of of late years than they used to be, probably because in their wild state they are less plentiful than formerly, in consequence of the advance of agriculture, and the employment of light lands for more profit- able purposes than rabbit-warrcn.s. M. Ude gives some additional particulars on this head : —"It is to be observed," ho says, "that waiTon raljbits only ought to be sent up to a good laljlo, tame rabbits in general having no flavour ljut tliat of ca)>l;.ig(.; and you must be particular in using for titblc only young rabbits. Whetlier tliey are so may l^e ascerUined by breaking the jaw between the thumb and finger; if they are old, they resist the pressure. Also by feeling in the joint of tlie paw for a little nut; if it is gone, tlie rabl)it is old and not fit for fine cookery. In such cases use them to make rabbit puddings or pies." THE RABBIT. Rabbit (a la Minute).—Cut a fresh young rabbit into neat joints. Dissolve two or three ounces of butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of rabbit, and turn them about until they are lightly browned aU over. Pour over them as much stock or water as will cover them, and add a little pepper and salt, a blade of mace, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and three or four mushrooms if these are to be had. Let all simmer gently together untU the rabbit is done enough, and, ten minutes before it is taken from the fire, thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Serve very hot. A glassful of sherry may be added to the sauce or not. Time altogether, foiiy minutes. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Rabbit (a la Poulctte).—Cut up a fresh young rabbit into neat joints con 'enicnt for serving. Lay these in a pie-dish, cover with equal parts of milk and water, and let them soak for an hour or two; this will render them juicy and tender. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, pour over them as much soiling white stock or water as will cover them, and add a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea- spoonful of white pepi^er, a bunch of parsley, two small button onions, a blade of mace, and six or eight mushrooms. Let the sauce l>oil iip, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer very gently indeed for half an lOur. Take up the meat, and set it r.side for a short time. Strain the sauce, and boil quickly until it is reduced one-third. Stir into it two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, put in the pieces of rabbit, and let them remain until they are hot