HAS RAS f 710 ) 1)0 had, and it is desired Ihiit the iJiopiuulion Bhould ho richer than it would bo if cream only wore used, the yolka of two eggs may he addc'd to throo-quartora of a pint of milk, and stii-red over tho liro until it begins to thicken without boiling. Time, ten minutes to stew the rasp- berries. Probable cost, 28. if made with cream, hiitlieiont for half a dozen persons. Raspberry Fritters.—Bruise some fr(!sh raspberries, sweeten them, and draw olf the juice. Crumble two sponge biscuits, pour over them haK a quarter of a pint of boiling creajn or milk, and leave them in a cool place for half an hour. Beat thoroughly the yolks of four eggs, mix them with the biscuits, and add as much raspberry jidce as will make the batter a bright pink colour. Take the fritters up in a dessert-spoon, lay them carefully in boiling fat, and fry them till they are set. Drain them, lay them on a dish, garnish half of them with sUced almonds, and the other half with sliced candied peel or fruit, and ornament the dish with bright-coloured sweets of any kind. Time to fry, three or four minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Raspberry Gin.—Put two quarts of freshly-gathered ripe raspberries into a stone spirit jar with two pounds of sugar candy and three pints of unsweetened gin. Cork the jar, and shake it well every day for a month. Put it in a cool place, and at the end of twelve months pour it off carefully, filter, and bottle for use. It ought to be bright and clear. Raspberry Ice.—Take a pint of the pressed juice of raspberries, add sugar to taste, and pour it into an ice-form ; set it in the ice- pail, and stir with a silver spoon always one way till it is quite frozen through. Let the ice remain in the ice-pail till wanted. Strawberries, currants, and mulberries may all be treated in this way. Raspberry Icing.—Put the white of an egg into a bowl, stir in with it a pound of pow- dered and sifted sugar and as much raspberry juice as will make a smooth paste. Whip it well till it is thick and Ught, spread it at once over whatever is to be covered with it, and dry in a cool oven. Raspberry Jam.—As raspberries very soon turn mouldy after they are gathered, it is most important that fresh, fruit should be used. Pick the raspberries, put them into a pre- serving-pan, and bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon. Put them on the fire, and let them boil for half an hour from the time when they boil equally all over. Stir in half their weight of roughly-powdered sugar, and when this is melted boil the jam till it will set. Skim carefully after the sugar is added, or it wiU not bo clear. Pour it while hot into small jars. When cold, lay writing-paper dipped in brandy on the top, and cover the jars with tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with white of egg, or with strong gum water. Store in a dry, airy place. Probable cost, 6d. to 9d. per ijound. Raspberry Jam (another way).—When it is not convenient to boil the fruit iin soon as it is gathered, or when perfectly fresh fruit ciuinoL be obtained, raspljorries may be pj csrTvc.d as follows :—Weigh the raspberries, and allow three-quarters of a jwund of sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the fruit and sugar in layers upon a larg(; dish, and let them remain for some hours. When they are U) be boikd, put fruit and sugar together "into a preserving- jjan, stir th« jam tfj keep it from burning, and lot it boil gently until it is done, which may be known by it hanging on the spoon. Itemove the scum as it rises, or the jam will not Ix) clear. Put it into jars, cover and sUjre in the usual way. Probable cost, 6d. to 9d. per pound. Raspberry Jam (another way^.—lilash a quantity of line ripe dry raspberries, strew on them their own weight of loaf sugar, and add half their weight of white-currant juice. Boil them half an hour over a clear slow fire, skim well, and put them into pots or glasses; tie down with brandied papers, and keep tlwim dry. Strew on the sugar as soon as possible after the berries are gathered, and in order to preserve their flavour they must not stand long before they are boiled. Raspberry Jam (superior).—Pick four pounds of freshly-gathered raspberries, and put them into a preserving-pan with one pint of red currant juice. Let them boil for a quarter of an hour, skim well, and add four pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the jam again, and keep it boiling till it will set. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, or the jam will not be bright and clear. Put it into jars; cover in the usual way. Raspberry Jelly.—Pick the stalks from some perfectly ripe and freshly-gathered rasp- berries, and put them into a stone jar. Bruise them slightly, cover the jar, place it in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling gently until the juice flows freely. Lay a piece of muslin in a fine hair sieve, and keep pouring off the juice till no more wiU flow. The fruit must not be squeezed, and if the juice is at all thick it should be strained through a jelly bag. Measure the juice, and put it into a preserving-pan with a pound of loaf-sugar (in lumps) to each pint of juice. Stir occasion- ally, skim carefully, and boil gently until it sets when a little is poured upon a plate. Put the jelly into small jars, and when cold cover in the usual way. Store in a dry, airy place. The flavour of this jelly will be improved if one part of red currant juice is used -with two parts of raspberry juice. If the fruit is not drained tiU quite dry, it may bo boiled \y\th. half its weight of sugar to make common jam. Time, about one hour to draw the juice; a few minutes to boil it with the sugar. Prol)a])le cost, 9d. to Is. per poimd. Sufficient, two quarts of raspberries should jaeld about one pint of juice. Raspberry Jelly (another way.)—Take half a pound of fresh, ripe-plucked raspberries, and put them in a basin. Add two t'lblc-spoon- f uls of powdered sugar, crush the fruit, and pour it on a fine sieve held over a china bowl placrd to receive the juice. Add to the raspberry j nice tho j\iire of two oranges, and filter on a sieve or through a glass funnel, with paper ^\•ithout gluo