THY ( 968 ) THI requisite in all dishes of cardons, as it improves thorn greatly, cardons being not unfrequently bitter. Thistle Heads with Spanish Sauce. —"This dish," says M. IJde, " requires gmit attention and no i'liuU sliaro of skill in the art of cooking. It is not much relished in England, but in Fninco it is held in the highest estima- tion. It is always ono of those selected to try the skill of a cook. " Select a few heads, or cardons, all very white. Cut each loaf into strips six inches long, with the exception, however, of those that are hollow, which are tough and thready. Beard them of their prickles, and blanch them by putting the thickest leaves into boiling water. After boiling them a few minutes, put in the leaves of the heart; turn the middle stalks into the shape of large olives, and blanch them likewise. Then try a piece in cold water, to see whether the slime which is on the surface will come off by rubbing. If so, take them off the fire immediately, and throw them into cold water, as they are done enough; or you may cool the boiling water by pouring in cold water till you are able to bear your hand in it to rub off all the slime. This being done, wash them clean, and throw the cardons into a blanc, boil them once, and leave them in the blanc. jlind not to let them be too much done. You must ascertain when they are done by thrusting in the point of your knife, and if it enters easily they are done enough. Whenever you wish to use them, drain a sufficient quantity. Pare both extremities, and mask them in a stew- pan with four spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, four spoonfuls of consomme, a little salt, and a little sugar. Let them boil over a sharp fire that they may not be done too much ; and be sure to skim off all the fat. Dish them nicely. Strain the sauce through a tamis before you mask them. Send them up to table quite hot, with a cover over them to prevent their getting dry. The cardons mix very wxU with eggs, and when you have any returned from table they will warm up again very wo]l, if you are particular in taking them off to put them immediately into the larder: in case they are too much done, use them to make Ics ceufs broiiilles (poached eggs), whicii you should make only when you have cardons left from the parlour. This is a capital entremet, and may be selected as one of the finest efforts of cookery." Thornback.—This fish is a species of skate. It grows to the length of two feet, and its flesh is considered excellent food. It is in the highest perfection during the autumn and winter months. It is very common on the English and Irish coasts. The parts which may be called the wings of tho_ thornback should be cut in strips and laid in salt and water for a day or two to take away the raw coarse taste which belongs to them when freshly dressed. Thornback, Boiled.- Take a thomback of tolerable size, clean it with Bcrupulous care, and skin it. Lay the part usually eaten in the fish-kettle, cover it with cold water, and add two ounces of salt and a table-sj)Oonful of vinegar to two (juails of wat(.T. Ilring Iho liquor to thj boil, skim it well, and let it boil gently until tlie flesh will part easily from the bone, which is a sign that it is sufliciently dressed. Lift the fish out carefully and drain it. Servo on a disli covered with u hot nap- kin, and garnish with green ])arsley and sliced lemon. Send melted butter or anchovy sjiuce to table in a tureen. If liked, the fins of the fish may be fried separately. Time to boil, ac- cording to size. THORNBACK. Thornback, Fried.—Clean and skin the fish, cut the part which is usually eaten into slices about an inch thick, and dr)^ them with a soft cloth. Dredge them with flour, and let them lie for half an hour or more. Frj' them in hot fat until they are brightly browned, and when they are done upon one side turn them upon the other. Drain them on blotting-paper to clear them from fat, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley. If preferred, the slices may be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs instead of being floured before they are fried. Time to fr)-, ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, variable, but generally inexpensive. Thrush. — The thrush was perhaps the most popular bird at delicate tables in ancient Greece. They were not given to young people for fear their exquisite flavour might give birth to premature greediness; but when a girl married she was sure of a brace of thrushes for her own special eating on her wedding-day. In Home the birds were still more popular: patrician ladies reared thousands of thrushes yearly for the market, and men ruined them- selves in providing dishes comijosed of these birds for their guests. Thyme.—Thyme is a herb much valued on account of its strong, pungent, aromatic odour and taste. Three varieties are used in cookery — common thyme, lemon thyme, and orange thyme. Lemon thyme and common thyme should be dried at the end of July and during August. Orange th>-me is ready a little earlier, and may be dried in June and J uly. Although thymo is most valuable for flavouring when