PISA ( 628 ) TEA Pear Anchovy.—This is a "West Indian fruit, not unlike the mango in taste. When in a green state it is sometimes pickled. Pear and Plum Jam without Sugar (see Plum and Pear Jam). Pear, Avocado, or Alligator—A fruit, about the size of an • apple, met with in the West Indies. It takes rank amongst the most delicious prodwotions of the vegetable kingdom. It consists of a kernel enclosed in a soft rind; the yellow pulp having the firmness and deh- cate flavour of the peach. Pear Charlotte.—Peel and core a dozen Bon Chretien pears, cut them into quarters, dip them into finely-powdered sugar, and shake them over the tire in a little clarified butter until they are tender; then drain them well. Cut three or four slices of crimib of bread the third of an inch thick. Line a plain round mould with these, first cutting out a small round for the bottom, and then cutting the rest into fin- gers, which must be placed round the mould overlapping each other. Dip the bread into clarified butter before putting it into the mould. Fill the mould with the cooked pears, cover the top with slices of bread dipped in butter, and place the dish in a brisk oven until the bread is lightly browned. If the oven be not sufficiently brisk the bread will not colour {)roperly, nor will the charlotte preserve its form. Turn the char- lotte out of the mould, and brush it over with apricot jam, or sift powdered sugar thickly over it. Time to bake, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Pear Jam.—Pare, core, and quarter six pounds of ripe mellow pears, put them into a jar, cover closely, and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boiHng until the pears fall and are quite soft. Turn them into a preserving pan, and mix with them a quart of syrup, made in the proportion of a pound and a half of loaf sugar to each half a j)int of water. Mix the fruit and the syrup thoroughly, and stir the jam over the fire for twenty minutes. Turn it into jars, cover in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pear Klosse (a German dish) .—Pare, core, "nd mince finely half a dozen ripe pears. Mix With them half a nutmeg grated, two ounces of clarified butter, sugar to taste, four well-beaten eggs, and as much finely-grated bread as will make the mixture stiff and smooth. Mould it into egg-shaped balls with a large spoon, drop these into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with sifted sugar and a little powdered cinnamon strewn over them. Send milk sauce to table with them. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pear Marmalade.—Weigh, pare, halve, and core as many ripe mellow pears as it is dosired to use. Put them into a presnrving- ]'!;n, barely cover them with cold water, and M!iiinor gontlv until thov are tender. TAft tliem out of the wator. and boil the liquid for an hour with the skins and cores of the pears. Strain it, make a syrup of it by boiling a pound and a half of sugar and a quart of liquid for every two pounds of fruit, and let this syrup boil until it will stiflien when a small quantity is poured upon a plate. Stir the pears into the syrup, and boil all together for a few minutes. Tm-n the marmalade into jars, cover in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time, boil the pears until tender; one hour to stew the skins, &c. ; boil the syrup until it jellies. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Pear Soup.—Pare, core, and slice six or eight large pears. Put them into a stewpan with a penny roll cut into thin slices, half a dozen cloves, and three pints of water. Let them simmer until they are quite tender, then press them through a coarse sieve, and return the puree to the saucepan, with two ounces of sugar, the strained juice of a fresh lemon, and half a tumblerful of light wine. Let the soup boil five or ten minutes, when it will be ready for serving. Send small spongecakes to table with this dish. Time, about one hour and a half to stew the pears. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pear Tart.—If mellow pears are used they will not require to be stewed before the pastry is put over them, but if the ordinary baking pears are made use of they must be pre- pared as follows:—Take six or eight large pears. Pare them thinly, core and quarter them, and put them into a stewpan vsdth a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two cloves, a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a quarter of a pint of water. Let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour, then turn them into the dish prepared for them. When the fruit is cold, moisten the edge of the dish and line it with pastry, wet the band, put the cover on, press it down all round with the finger and thumb, trim the edge, and mark iL with the back of a knife. Ornament the top by placing on it leaves or flowers stamped out with the pastry-cutter. Bake in a good oven. About ten minuteS before the tart is done enough, draw it out, sprinkle over it white of egg mixed with a little cold water, sift pow- dered sugar thickly over it, and put it back in the oven to finish baking. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Pearlina Pudding, Baked.— Hub a quarter of an ounce of fresh butter over the inside of a saucepan, and put into it a quart of milk, with any flavouring that may be liked. Let it boil, then sprinkle in gradually four table-spoonfuls of Brown and Poison's pearlina, and stir it over a gentle fire for ten minutes, or until it is thick. Pour it out, let it cool a few mlr-ntes, and then add a pinch of salt, half an ounce of butter, three ounces of moist sugar, throe woll-beaten eggs, and half an ounce of candied-peel finely minced. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is nicely browned. Send wine sauce to table with it. Time, about throe-qnartera of an hour to bake. Probablo cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six jjcrHouH.