BAT BAT ( 717 ) bowl with a quarter of a pound of raspberries, a quurter of a pound of strawberries, and a pound and a half of black-heart cherries. Bruisj the fruit well, let it stand twenty-four houi-s, and drain off the j nice. Pleasure the j nice, and with each pint put a quarter of a pound of loaf sugiir boiled to a clear syrup with two table- spoonfuls of water and a quart of flavoured brandy. Filter the liqueur through a jelly-bag, put it into small bottles, and store for use. Batafla, Bed (another way).—Mash to- gether in a tub, or pan, three pounds of black cheiTies, two of ripe red gooseberries, and one of raspberries. Mix with these twenty-four cherry-kernels previously pounded in a mortar with a pint of syrup ; put all into a jar, stop it close, and keep it for twelve hours in a heat of about ninety degrees, Fahrenheit; then press it through a clean napkin, let it stand twelve hours longer; and then add to each quart of juice a pint of good brandy ; next day, strain it through a flannel bag till it is quite clear. Batafla, Bed (another way).—Take thiee poimds and a half of ripe red cherries, two pounds of ripe black cherries, two pounds and a half of ripe red gooseberries, the same quan- tity of red raspberries, and one pound and a half of fine ripe red currants, place the fruit in a deep earthen pan, and mash it well. Pound in a mortar a drachm of cloves, a drachm of mace, half an ounce of cinnamon, two ounces of coriander-seed, two drachms of fennel-seed, two sticks of Jamaica pepper, a dozen apricot- kernels, twenty cherry-kernels, and six bitter almonds. Add these to the mashed fruit, and also two quarts of sjTup. Put the whole into a large stone bottle, well closed, and expose it during a fortnight to the heat of the sun, or place it beside the kitchen fire. Then strain, and squeeze the whole through linen, and add to each quart of juice a quart of the best French brandy. Let it stand for another fortnight in the sun or beside the- fire, then run it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, and bottle in pint bottles. Batafla, Bose.—Take a quarter of a pound of roses picked from all the green, pour a pint of warm water over them, let them stand two days; strain them through linen, squeeze them to extract all the liquor; take as much brandy as you have decoction of roses, add half a pound of sugar to each quart, flavour it with a little coriander and cinnamon; let it re- main fifteen days, then filter and bottle it. Batafla Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Moisten a dessert-spoonful of aiTowroot with a spoonful of cold water, and rub it till smooth. Pour oyer it—stirring all the time—a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Add a table- spoonful of ratafia liqueur and sugar to taste. Boil a minute or two, and serve. Time, ten minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufiicient for six or eight persons. Batafla, Strong.—Take two ounces of apricot and poach kernels, blanch them, and put them into a quart bottle with half an ounce of cloves and a bit of cinnamon; till up the bottle with French brandy. Cork the bottle woU, seal it, and put it in the sun on fine days; in two months, add to the preparation three ounces of white sugar-candy dissolved in a pint of cold water. Then strain off, filter througli paper, and bottle for use. Batatouville.—This is a popular French method of making a savoury dish out of the remains of cold meat. It may be made satis- factorily from two or three kinds of meat which have been dressed at different times; none must be used, however, which is not perfectly sweet. If the cold meat is very lean, procure a little fresh fat meat, such as the thin ends of the ribs of beef. Cut both the dressed and undressed meat into pieces about an inch square, and place them on separate dishes. Melt a slice of good beef dripping in a saucepan, slice two or three onions into this, and when they are lightly browned put in the uncooked meat and brown it. Dredge a little flour over the whole, and stir it until it is without lumps, then pour in gradually as much stock or water as will cover the meat. Add a mixture of any suitable vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and celery, all finely shred, freshly-peeled potatoes halved, quartered, or sliced, or haricot beans which hava been already three-parts cooked, green peas, &c., together with a bay-leaf, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer all gently together until the vegetables are tender, put in the dressed meat, and let the preparation simmer gently until the meat is hot and im- pregnated with the flavour of the stew, but it must not boil again. Arrange the meat and vegetables on a hot dish, pour the giavy over, and serve. If liked, the gravy can be thickened with cuny-powder or paste and a portion of ground rice, instead of with flour. When this is done, some rice boiled as for curry should be sent to table on a separate dish. Time, about an hour and a half. Batel-i-COUm.—This is a sweetmeat of Turkish origin, which has recently become common in confectioners' shops under various names, but chiefly under that of " Lumps of Delight." It is made of starch and syrup, and is sometimes coloured. It is imported into this country in the form of small cakes, one or two inches square, and about an inch thick, and evidently cut from a mass. These cakes are sprinkled with powdered sugar to keep them from sticking together in the small boxes in which they are packed. Bations, Army and Navy.—At homo the army ration is three-quarters of a pound of meat and one pound of bread—"best seconds " —if in barracks ; or three-quarters of pound of meat with a pound and a half of bread if in camp. If a grocery ration is also issued, for every such ration three-halfpence are deducted from the pay of the recipient. In cases -w here men are not supplied with rations, an allowance is granted of sixpence a day. Abroad, the ra- tion is one pound of bread, or three-quartei s of biscuit, and one pound of fresh or salt meat, except at certain stations, where, in considera- tion of the climate, a different ration is specially provided. During field operations, the bread ration may be increased, though not above a pound and a half of bread, or one pound of biscuit. The commanding officer may, during