( 1073 ) VEG together for a quarter of an hour. They will have the flavour and appearance of fresh turned vegetables. Probable cost, Is. 6d. per pound. Sufficient, a table-spoonful of diied vegetables for a quart ef soup. Vegetables, Eggs Poached for.— Put into a stiucepan or kettle about a hand's depth of water; as soon as it boils, take some new-laid, or at least very fresh, eggs, and break them one after the other into the boiling water in such a manner that they shall stand close together. When the white is tolerably well set, take them quickly out of the water with a spoon, and lay them in cold water. These eggs must not, however, be boiled hard ; also, before taking them out of the saucepan, they may be flavoured with vinegar, which to many will render them very agreeable. With old eggs the whites run together, and the result is not so good; also care must be taken to keep the eggs from becoming attached to the bottom of the saucepan by means of a spoon. The eggs are left in the cold water till required for use, when they are trimmed and cut round for the table. Vegetables, Fresh, Treatment of.— Those who value fresh vegetables and sweet salads will never have them washed in the garden. Neither the one nor the other should be washed (says a >vriter in the Gardener s Chronicle) until they are just about to be cooked or eaten. Even potatoes lose flavour quickly after being washed; so do carrots and turnips; whilst water will very speedily become tainted in summer in contact with cauliflowers and cabbages, and thus destroy their freshness and flavour. The case is still worse with salads. If washed at all, it should be only just before they are dressed, and they should be dried and dressed immediately. Nothing ruins the flavour of vegetables, and renders good salads uneat- able, sooner than water hanging about them. If lettuces are quite clean, they make the best salad unwashed ; but if washed, the operation shoidd be done quickly, the water instantly shaken out, and the leaves dried with a clean cloth. The best practice is simply to remove all superfluous earth by scraping or rubbing, and all rough tops or leaves by cutting. Enough tender loaves may still be left on cauliflowers and broccoli to overlap the flowers. Salad should be sent in from the garden with most of the outside leaves and main root on. The tender leaves are easily tainted and injured by exposui-e, and if the chief root is cut off sharp, much of the juice oozes out of the wound. Wliere vegetables and salads have to be bought from a greengrocer the conditions are altogether different. Not only washing, but soaking often becomes necessary to restore something like their pristine crispness. Vegetables, Fried, Marinade of.— Slice two onions and a carrot, and put them, with a small bunch of savourj' herbs, half a blade of mace, and a slice of butter, into a stewpan. Cover closely, and steam them, shaking the pan occasionally, tiU. the onions turn yellow. Dredge a little flour upon them, and pour over them half a pint of stock and half that quantity of vinegar. Add salt and pepper if the stock is not already seasoned, strain the liquor, and it will be ready for use. Vegetables, Insects cleared from —Put plenty of cold water into a large jjan^ and add salt in the proportion of a largo table- spoonful to two quarts of water. Lay the vegetables in this, stalk uppermost, and shake them occasionally. This will cause the insects, which hide between the leaves, to fall out and sink to the bottom of the pan. If liked, a small pi-oportion of vinegar may bo added to the water instead of salt, and this will answer the same purpose. Vegetables, Keeping of.—When it is necessary to keep vegetables for a day or two, spread them out on a cellar floor, or keep them in a perfectly dry cool situation, but not exposed to currents of air. Be careful that each kind of vegetable is kept away from the other kinds, to prevent deterioration in flavour. Examine them daily to ascertain that they are not withering. Carrots, turnips, beetroot, parsnips, potatoes, and beans keep best in di'y sand or earth in a cellar. The mould which hangs about them should be left upon them, and if any sprouts appear, they should be care- fully removed. Cabbages, if spread out on earth in a cool cellar, will keep good for two or three months. Celery and leeks also may be kept for two or three months in a cellar in boxes filled with earth. The stalk ends of asparagus and cucumbers, on the contrary, should be placed in about two inches of cold water. Store onions should be hung in a cool dry place. Vegetables should not be washed or placed in water until a short time before they are to be used. . Vegetables, Macedoine of (for gar- nishing dishes).—Take equal quantities of car- rots, turnips, green peas, asparagus peas, French beans, brussels sprouts, and cauliflowers. With VEGETABLE SCOOPS. a vegetable scoop cut the carrots and turnips into pieces a quarter of an inch square, or turn them into the shapes of olives, filberts, &c. Divide the cauliflowers and French beans mto small neat pieces. Cook the vegetables separately in plenty of water slightly salted; when done enough drain and dry them. When the macedoine is wanted, put into a saucepan as much good white sauce as wiU moisten the vegetables, toss them lightly in it, being careful not to break them. When they are quite hot, the macedoine will be ready for serving. When the sauce is made entirely without stock, this garnish becomes Vegetable Macedoine Maigre. Vegetables, Mixed, Minced, and Stewed (second dressing). —Take various kinds of cold dressed vegetables, cut them small.