RHU RHU ( 731 ) colour, adds greatly to the appearance of the table. When more convenient, the rhubarb may be baked instead of boiled, but equal care should be taken that the rhubarb does not fall to pieces. Time to simmer, ten minutes or more. Probable cost of rhubarb, 5d. to 8d. per bundle. Sufficient, one bundle for three mode- rate-sized dishes. Rhubarb, Compote of (another way). —Cut a pound of rhubarb into pieces half an inch long, and place these in a stewpan with six oimces of powdered sugar and a quarter of a pint of water. Shake the saucepan over a bi-isk fire until the fruit is tender, lift it out carefully, and pile in the centre of a glass dish. Dissolve in the syrup a tea-spoonful of isinglass or gelatine, colour with two or three drops of cochineal, and when it is cold pour it round the fruit. Time to simmer the fruit, ten minutes or more. Probable cost of rhubarb, od. to 8d. per bundle. Rhubarb, Compote of (another way).— The small forced rhubarb (Mitchell's Royal Albert) is by far the best. Cut about half a pound of it into pieces half an inch in length, which put into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a wine-glassful of water; set it over a sharp fire, occasionally shaking the stewpan round, and when quite tender pour it into a basin until cold, when it is ready for serving; should the syrup be too thin, add sufficient isinglass to set it, and when cold dress it pyramidicaUy upon the dish. Rhubarb, Compote of (another way).— Boil in a clean preserving-pan five or six ounces of good sugar "with a quarter of a pint of spring water. Cut into inch lengths one pound of fresh rhubarb stalks, and simmer them gently in the s^Tup, skimmmg if necessary. Take rhubarb of the same growth that it may all be sufficiently tender at the jsame time. Time, ten minutes to boil syrup, about half an hour to simmer rhubarb. Rhubarb Flummery.—Soak a quarter of an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in three table-spoonfuls of cold water for an hour. Cut up one pound and a half of rhubarb into small pieces, and simmer tliis in as much cold water as will barely cover it, until it is quite soft. Drain off the juice, put it into a saucepan with the soaked isinglass, and stir until the isinglass is dissolved. Eub the fruit through a sieve, mix the pulp with the isinglass, &c., and add four table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Sweeten according to taste. Stir the flummery over the fire for a few minutes, but do not allow it to boil, pour it into a damped basin, and let it stand in a cool place till set. Turn it out on a glass dish, and send it to table with custard poured round it. Time to boil the rhubarb, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to its age. Probable cost, lOd., if made with gelatine. Rhubarb Fool.—Wash and, if necessarj', peel the rhubarb, and cut it up into small pieces. Put as much an is to be used into a jar which has a closely-fitting lid, with as miich sugar as will be required to sweeten it. Set this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling until the fruit is quite soft. Rub it through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, and mix with the pulp as much cream, milk, or thin cold custard as will make it of the consistency of gruel. Taste it, and if not sufficiently sweet, add a little more sugar. Serve cold in a glass dish. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. per pint if made with milk. Time, varying with the age of the fruit. Rhubarb Fritters.—Pare five or six rhubarb stalks, and cut them small. Beat a pint of flour to a smooth paste with half a pint of water, add a pinch of salt, a pint of milk, and two well-beaten eggs, then stir the rhu- barb into the batter. Put a large table-spoon- fal of lard or sweet dripping into a thick- bottomed frying-pan. Melt this, and when it is boiling hot, put in the batter by spoonfuls, and keep each spoonful separate. Flatten the tops of the fritters a little, and when one side is brightly browned, turn them over upon the other. When they are done enough drain them, and serve on a hot dish with a little piece of butter, a grate of nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of sugar over each. Time to fry, three or four minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rhubarb Jam.—Rhubarb jam is most wholesome and useful, but it will not keep for a greart length of time like other preserved fruits. Peel the rhubarb, and cut it up into short lengths. Weigh it, and with each pound of fruit put one pound of sugar, the rind of half a small, lemon, chopped small, and a quar- ter of an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and chopped. Bring the fruit slowly to the boil, stir constantly, and skim carefully, then boil it rather quickly until it will set when a little is put upon a plate. Put it into jars, and when it is cold, tie these down in the usual way. If liked, the almonds may be omitted, and the juice of the lemon may be added to the fruit. Time to boil young rhubarb, about three-quar- ters of an hour. Old rhubarb, one hour to one hour and a half, counting from the time the jam simmers equally all over. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Rhubarb Jam (another way).—Take as much rhubarb as is required, and cut it into small pieces; then take a pound of sugar to everj' pound of rhubarb, and let all steep together in a covered jar for three days. Take also as much ginger as will fill a wine-glass, fill up the glass with whiskey, and let it also stand for three days. Add the whiskey flavoured with ginger to the rhubarb, taking care to keep back the sticks of ginger. Boil for forty minutes, put into jars, and cover in the usual way. A wine- glassful of ginger and whiskey' is usually- thought enough to flavour seven pounds of rhubarb, but more or less may be used according to taste. This is a Scotch recipe, and said to be an excellent one. It is to be observed that the latter part of the season is the best time of the year for preserving rhubarb; it does not then contain so much water. Rhubarb Jam to Imitate Pre- served Ginger.—Take some young but