( 864 ) SHE SHE useloss to attempt to dig thorn up, thoy back away from you so skilfully. After many vain ettorts to secure one of those creatui-os alive, 1 mentioned my failures to tlie late Profossor Edward Forbes. ' Oh,' he said, with a wag- gish smile, ' all you have to do is to put a little salt over their holes, and they will come out.'_ I remembered the story of putting salt on birds' tails ; and although I resolved secretly to follow my friend's plan, it was so simple I had not the corn-age to tell him that I would. I had, however, no sooner got to the seaside than I quietly stole to the pantry, and pocketed some salt, and then went alone at low tide to the sandy shore. As soon as I espied a hole I looked round, for I almost fancied I heard my friend chuckle over my shoulder; however, nobody was there, and down went a pinch of salt over the hole. What I now beheld almost staggered me. Was it the ghost of some razor-fish whose head I had chopped ofE in digging that now rose before me to arraign me for my malice, or was it a real live razor-fish that now raised its long shell at least half out of the sand ? I grasped it, fully expecting it would vanish, but I found I had won my prize, j It was a real solid specimen of the species Solen ^ maximus that I had in my hand. I soon had a number of others, which were all carried home in triumph. Of course, there were more than were required for the purposes of science, and at the suggestion of a Scotch friend the animals , not wanted were made into soup. When the j Boup was brought to table, our Scotch friend vowed it particularly fine, and ate a basincful with I at least twenty razor-fish in it. One table- spoonful satisfied the ladies, whilst I and an English friend declared — against our con- sciences, I do verUy believe—that we had never eaten anything so excellent. I counted the number of the creatures I was able to swallow; it amounted to exactly three. After a tumbler of whisky and water—taken, of course, medi- cinally—arrangements were made for a dredge in the morning. The Scotchman was up at five, but I and my English friend could not make our appearance. Nightmare and other symptoms of indigestion had fairly upset us, and unfitted us for anything so ticklish as a dredging excursion. Now, I do not wish to say anything against razor-fish as an article of diet, but, from what I have told, they would seem to possess an amount of resistance to the ordinary digestive activity of the stomach that would make it highly desirable to ensure, before taking them, such a digestion as a Highlander fresh from his mountain-wilds is known to possess." Another favoxirite bivalve is the Cockle. This shell-fish is very abundant on most parts of our coast, especially where there is sand, and upon the banks of estuaries. It is highly esteemed both by rich and poor, and' by some is preferred to the oyster. It is equall^' good raw or cooked. It may be boiled or roasted, eaten alone, or as sauce to other fish. It may be eaten with im- punity in almost any numbers, and has not imfrequently staved off the pressure of starva- tion amongst the poor of our coasts. By culture it attains to an immense size. "One of our neglected edible shell-fish is the Limpet {Patella vulgaru). It is very abundant on aU our coasts wherever there are rocks, and it can be easily procured by the aid of a strong knit'o. It is a tough morsel, but nutritiuiiii withal. The people of Ireland think it a delicacy, and a considerable consumption of limpets as articles of food occurs thi'oughout the country. Next come Periwinkles {Liltorina litioria), " pinpatches," as they are called on the coaat of Suffolk. On the banks of some of our estuaries they occur in myriads. They are looked upon as a poor man's luxury, but may be recommended to the notice of everybody. They should be bought alive, boiled, and whikt hot the creatures should be picked out of the shell with a pin, and eaten with vinegar and pepper. They are digestible and nutritious, and by no means to be despised. The Clam is a great favourite in the United States. The business of digging clams is en- gaged in by a large number of persons on the North-American coasts. There are two varie- ties— the hard-shelled and the soft-sheUed. They are eaten largely in spring, when they are in the best condition. Clams are much prized by persons residing at a distance from the sea-coast, and they are frequently sent into the interior, where they meet with a ready sale, as they can be sold at a very low price. Sherbet is a favourite beverage in the East, universally used among wealthy Moham- medans, to whom the use of wine is forbidden by the Koran. It consists of water, the juice of lemon, orange, or other fruits, with sugar, flavoured further with honey, spices, and even perfumes. Its pleasant acidity blended with sweetness renders it well calculated to assuage thirst in a warm climate. The poorer classes, who cannot afford to have it so rich, drink water prepared with a little sugar and fruit juice. In India this is carried about in goats' skins for sale. Sherbet Cream.—Beat the yolks of three fresh eggs, and mix them with two pints of cream. Add a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, or rose water, and stir the cream without ceasing over a gentle fire imtil it begins to thicken. Pour it out at once, sweeten, and stir it till cold. Freeze in the usual way. Time,, about a quarter of an hour to boU the cream. Sufficient for two pints and a quarter. Sherbet for Punch.—The quaKty of punch depends in a great measure upon the way in which the sherbet is mixed. Tho different flavouring ingredients ought to be blended thoroughly before the spirit or wine is- put in, and unless this is done the punch will lose in delicacy of flavour. The quantity of wine and spirit used will, of course, vary accord- ing to taste. Generally two lemons and half a pound of sugar will be sufficient for four quarts of punch. To make the sherbet, rub half a pound of fine sugar in lumps upon two largo fresh lemons until all the yellow part is tjiken off. Remove the white bitter skin of tho lemons, throw away the pips, and cut the pulp into slices with a silver knife. Put these upon the sugar, and bruise aU well together with R wooden spoon. If the lemons are veiy acid, a