( 936 ) STU STTJ of? the fat, and put a little flour and boiling water into the pan. Pour this into a stewpan, and add to it Bome sweet herbs and an onion, and season with pepper and suit. Let the fish stew till quite tender; then strain the sauce, and serve it poured round the fish, adding first a little lemon-juice. Sturgeon. Roasted.--Take a piece of sturgeon cut from the middle of a good-sized fish. Cleanse thoroughly and skin it, season with salt and pepper, and tie thin slices of fat bacon round it. Take a piece of writing- paper largo enough to cover the fish entirely. Butter it thickly, and spread over it sliced carrots and onions with a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and wrap the fish in it. Tie two more sheets of buttered paper upon it, bind securely with tape, and put the stur- geon in a cradle-spit, or tie it to an ordinary spit, and roast before a clear fire. When done enough take it down, pour a little matelote sauce over it, and send more to table in a tureen. The sauce may be made as follows:— Put half a pint of good brown sauce into a saucepan with eighteen fried button onions, the same number of small mushrooms, and a glassful of claret. Boil all gently together for ten minutes. Add a pinch of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a small lump of sugar, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. When the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, take the sauce off the fire, stir into it xmtil dissolved a small lump of butter, and it will be ready for serving. Time to roast the fish, according to age and size. Sturgeon, Boasted (another way).—Split the sturgeon; make a marinade with white wine, with which baste the fish. Next take some of the marinade and reduce it with four large spoonfuls of good Spanish sauce. When the sauce is of a good consistency, put in it about half a pound of fresh butter kneaded with a little flour, salt, cayenne pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. If you have no Spanish sauce, make a little thickening with flour and butter, and moisten with the marinade, having added to it a little glaze. Sturgeon, Roasted Whole.—If it can be procured, take a small sturgeon whole. Remove the spikes, empty it, and cleanse it thoroughly; then soak it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. Put it in a cradle-spit, and roast it before a clear fire; baste con- stantly until it is half-dressed. Be very careful that the surface of the fish is not burnt, or it will be entirely spoiled. Cover with seasoned bread-crumbs, and continue roasting, basting it frequently, for half an hour. Serve with crab or anchovy sauce. This is a good dish for a dinner-party. Time to roast, about an hour. Sturgeon, Sauce for.—If broiled or fried, any piquant sauce or any of the sauces which usually accompany salmon may be served with sturgeon. When stewed (which is the most usual mode of dressing it), the liquor in which it was simmered may be strained, thickened, and either poured over it or served in a tureen. Sturgeon, Stewed.—Take two pounds of sturgoou cut into slices an inch thick. Soak these in strong vinegar for five minutes, drain them, dry them in a cloLh, dip them in flour, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned on both sides. Take as much good nicely-flavoured veal stock as will ]>arely cover the fish, throw into it a largo glassful of madeira, cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the fish gently for an hour. Put the slices on a dish, thi-ow a spoonful of capers upon them, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Time to fry the shoes, ten minutes; to simmer them, one hour. Sturgeon, Stewed (another way).—Dip the shoes of fish in vinegar, then dry them, dredge them with flour, and broQ or fry them. Next lay them in a stewpan with some good broth, and let them stew gently till quite ten- der ; thicken with butter or cream, half a glass- ful of wine, and a spoonful of spy, ketchup, or Harvey's Sauce; throw capers over the top, and serve up garnished with slices of lemon. Sturgeon Stewed and Garnished with Sole.—Take a piece of sturgeon cut from the middle of a good-sized fish. Clean and scale it, and soak it in salt and water for ten or twelve hours. Drain, and cover it with thin shoes of fat bacon. Put it into the fish-kettle, and almost cover it with nicely- flavoured stock. Add a glassful of claret, and simmer it gently until done enough. FiUet five or six soles. Spread a thin layer of fish forcemeat on the skinned side of each fillet, roU it, tie twine round it, and put the fiUets side by side in a buttered baking-dish. Pour round them as much stock as will almost cover them, and bake them in a moderate oven. When the sturgeon is done enough, drain it, place it on a hot dish, put the rolled fillets of sole round it, and pour over them a small portion of the hquor, strained and thickened, in which the fish was boiled. A small stewed mushroom may be placed on each roU. If preferred, the soles may be omitted altogether, and the sturgeon, being cooked as above, may be served on a hot dish, and simply garnished with parsley and cut lemon. Caper sauce and plaLnly-boUed potatoes may then be served as accompaniments. Sturgeon, Stuffed and Roasted.— Take the tail end of a moderate-sized sturgeon; cleanse thoroughly, then bone and skin it. Fill it with good veal forcemeat, roll it in buttered paper, and bind it securely with tape. Place it in a cradle-spit, put it down before a clear fire, and baste hberally whilst it is roasting. When it is done enough, serve on a hot dish with plain melted butter, brown gravy, or a sauce prepared as follows:—Put into a small saucepan a glassful of sherry, a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Let the sauce boil up; then serve. Time to roast, about an hour. Sturgeon, Various ways of Cook- ing.—" Sturgeon, fresh," says Dr. Kit(>.hincr, " is esteemed a good fish by many; hut, I believe, only because it does not come plenti- ful enough to be common, and to the cater of fish it makes a change. A piece stewed, with