( 778 ) ritm: saucepan with a Btick of cinnamon or nutmeg gTjited, a dozen large lumps of sugar, aud tho rind of a lomon pooled thin. Whon tho wiuo boils, pour it over the alo and gin. Drink hot. Rump Steak.—Hump steak is at its best from September to March, and should be cut from meat that has been hung three or four days to make it tender, though it should not be cut from tho rump until it is required. It is a prime pirt of the meat, and whon good is superior to any other in tenderness and deUcacy of flavour. French cooks almost always prefer steaks from the fillet or inside of the sirloin, but many good judges consider these steaks ai-e insipid and flavourless compared with good rump steak. Rump steak may be cooked in several different ways, the recipes for which will be found under " Beef." As it always fetches a high price, other steak, such as buttock or chuck steak, may be advantageously used for stoNving, or for pies, and if carefully cut will give entire satisfaction. It is worth knowing that many butchers sell the first cut of the rump for 2d. or 3d. less per pound than the other portions, and if this is washed quickly, and dried, it is quite as good as the rest. Probable cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. per pound. Rump Steak, Baked, with Onions. —Take about two poimds of well-hung tender steak, and fry it in hot fat tUl it is lightly and equally browned. Take it up, put it in an earthenware dish which has a closely-fitting lid, and pour over it a pint of stock made from bones. Add two moderate-sized onions which have been boiled till tender, two table-spoonfuls of Harvey's Sauce or walnut ketchup, two cloves, and a little salt and cayenne. Cover the dish, and bake the steak gently tUl done enough. Take it up, lay round it an onion, sliced, divided into lings, and fried; and strain over it the gravy in the baking-dish. Serve ■very hot. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, about 3s. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rump Steak, Broiled {see Beef Steak, Rump). Rump Steak, Broiled, Accompani- ments to. — Many epicures prefer broiled steak plain, that is, dredged lightty with pepper before it is broiled, and served on a hot dish with fresh butter under and over it. As a variety to flavour it, half a lemon may be squeezed over the steak, and a table- spooiiul of Harvey's Sauce poured on it, or a little maitre d'hotel or anchovy butter may be rubbed over it as soon as it is done, or fried onion or fried potatoes may be used to garnish the dish, or oyster, mushroom, tomato, or onion sauce may be served in a tureen, or stewed cucumbers may be sent to table separately. Rump Steak, Broiled, with Onion Gravy.—Put two Spanish onions, sliced, into a saucepan with half a table-spoonful of stock or water. Let them stew gently until the water has boiled away and they are a little coloured, then pour over them half a pint of stock and a seasoning of pepper and salt, und simmer till tender. Lift them out of the gravy, mince finely, tliun return them to the gravy. Add a table-spoonful of mushroom- ketchup, and boil tho gravy for five minutes. Put it on a hot dish, lay a broiled steak upon it {see Beef Steak, Rump), and serve hot. Time to make tho gravy, about half an hour. Rump Steak, Neapolitan (excellent).— Take two pounds of tcmclor rump steak an inch and a half thick. Fry it in hot fat until it is brightly and equally browned, take it up, and in the same fat fry two thinly-sliced onions. Put the steak into an earthen dish, lay tho onion upon it, pour over it as much broth as will barely cover it, and add two pickled gherkins finely minced, two sticks of celery, four cloves, a little salt and cayenne, and a glassful of port or claret. Cover the pan closely, and put it in a moderately-heated oven till the steak is half cooked, then add a turnip and a carrot cut in halves. When these are sufficiently cooked, lift out the steak, lay it on a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, cut the carrot and turnip into dice, and sprinkle them upon it. Serve immediately. Time to bake the steak, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 3s. 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steak, Piquant Sauce for.— Put a wine-glassful of ale into a small saucepan, with a wine-glassful of claret, a wine-glassful of ketchup or Harvey's Sauce, a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar, and an ounce of fresh butter. Stir the mixture over the fire till it is tho- roughly heated, and serve poured hot upon the steak. Time, five or six minutes. Rump Steak Pudding.—Cut about two pounds of tender rump steak into pieces an inch and a half square, and season these with a dessert-spoonful of salt and a tea- spoonful of pepper. Line a shallow, thick- rimmed pudding-basin, well buttered, with good suet crust half an inch thick, and leave about an inch of pastry over the edge. Lay in the steak, and add a quarter of a pint of stock, gravy, or water. Cover the meat with a circular piece of pastry, moisten the edge of the pastry that was left over, press it closely, and tie the basin rather loosely in a cloth which has been wrung out of boiling water and floured. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Either serve it in the basin, round which a napkin has been tied, or turn it carefuUy upon a hot dish, after allowing it to stand five minutes. If liked, a circular piece of pastry may be cut out of the top of the pudding and a slice of butter put into it to enrich the gravy. This pudding will be very much im- proved if half a pound of ox kidney cut up small, a dozen and a half of oysters, and six or eight larks, are put into it with the beef. Time to boil, four to five hours. Probable cost, when made with steak only, Ss. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rump Steak, Savoury.—Cut the rump steak three-quarters of an inch thick, trim it neatly, and brush it over with oil. Broil as already directed in the recipe Beef Steak, Rumn. Have ready two finely-minced shallotfi and tlie