POR ( 616 ) POR strength and soporific in its tendency, from the strong infusion of hops in its composition." According to Mr. Donovan, the following fonnula will alford oxcoUont porter:— For every hogshojid of keeping drink, or a hogshead and a third of drink for speedy consumption: the ingredients, when the thermometer sttmds at 55?, may bo used in these relative quanti- ties :—the grist, in all twelve stone, sliould consist of a stone and a half of amber malt, a pound and a half of patent malt (that is, malt resolved into mere colouring matter by charring), and all the rest is to be pale ma^t. The quantity of water for the different naashings, if the porter is for immediate use, and a hogshead and a third is to be produced, should be such that the gravity of the worts on Dicas's saccharometer will Do 55 pounds per barrel when all the worts are mixed. Jji sunamer, three pounds ol best Kent hops will be reciuired; but in winter a quarter or half pound less will answer sufficiently well for preservation. If the drink is to be brewed for keeping, the quantity of malt and hops must be increased in proportion to the time. Porter, Adulteration of.—The follow- ing are the substances said to have been em- ployed for the adulteration of porter, and the effects -which they are intended to produce :— *' Quassia, gentian, wormwood, broom-tops, nux vomica, and strychnine, to impart bitterness in lieu of hops; capsicums and grains of para- dise (in concentrated tinctures), ginger, cori- anders, orange-p'^el, and caraway-seeds, to give pungency and flavour; opium, cocculus Indicus, nux vomica, tobacco, extract of poppies, and the tincture and juice of henbane, to impart intoxi- cating properties or ' strength ;' molasses, colour- ing, sugar, burnt sugar, and corianders, as .substitutesfor malt; sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), alum, green vitriol, and common salt, to impart an appearance of age; and 'foots,' pearlash, Scotch soda, and some of the articles before- named, as ' heading,' or to give the beer the property of bearing its 'head' or 'froth.' " Porter, Bottling of.— For this clear weather should if possible be chosen. Leave the bung out of the cask aU night, fiU the bottles, cover with sheets of paper to keep out the dust, and let them stand twenty-four hours; then cork them, and pack away in a cool place. If for immediate use, porter may be ripened in two or three days by adding a small piece of sugar to each bottle before corking. Porter Cup.—Cut two small lemons into thin slices, and put them into a bowl, carefuUy leaving out the pips. Pour over them a tea- cupful of sherry and a pint of porter. Add the eighth of a nutmeg grated; mix all thoroughly, ice, and serve. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufficient for a quart cup. Porter Jelly or Ale JeUy {see Ale or Porter Jelly). Porter, Wholesomeness of.—" Good ripe strong beer or porter," says Dr. Andrew, " in moderation, or in draughts of not more than half a pint, twice or even thrice a day where active exertion and outdoor labours are com- tined, can do no possible injury, and in many cases may do much good ; and it is a most valu- able auxiliary in the trfjutment of those fevers usually denominated putrid. (Jarbonic acid is combined in considerable quantity with the nourishing and tonic qualities of this vinous liquor, and in many cases it proves not only a substitute for wine, but in a great variety of instances even superior to that more expensive liquor." " There are few medical men," says another professional authority, " who Vill not testify to the highly beneficial effects which follow the use of good porter in many cases; it is, in fact, an ad- mirable tonic, superior to any other form of malt liquor, and especially so, because it is less likely to disagree and to become acid on the stomach than the other varieties of malt beverage. Dr. Prout recommends the use of porter in dia- betes, not only for its tonic properties but as less likely to prove injurious in many cases of that disease than any other drink. In convalescence from acute disease porter is a strengthening medium, most grateful to the patient. In order to prove of service, porter must not be flat; it is therefore better, for invaUds at least, to drink it bottled." Portland Pudding. — Beat separately the whites and yolks of four eggs. Put the yolks into a bowl, and mix with them very gradually half a pound of dried flour. Beat the batter till it is quite free from lumps. Stir into it four ormces of moist sugar, six ounces of clarified butter, one ounce each of candied lemon and candied orange-peel, the two last being finely shred. Add a pinch of salt, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, one pound of sttmed raisins, and last of aU the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Beat the pudding five or six minutes. Pour it into a buttered basin, tie it in a cloth, and leave room for the pudding to sweU. Plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling until it is done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. Time to boil, five hours. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Portuguese Apple Pie.—Line the inside of a moderate-sized pie-dish -with good crust. Put into it half a dozen good baking apples, which have been pared, cored, and cut into thin slices. Sprinkle a little sugar and two or three inches of thin lemon-rind cut into narrow strips over them. Spread a small portion of apricot jam upon them, and cover the whole with a cold custard made with half a pint of milk and six well-beaten eggs. The custard should be sweetened, and may be flavoured with lemon, almond, or any other flavouring. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. If the apples are not of a kind to fall they should be cooked beforehand. Portuguese Cakes.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Add half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, Imlf a pound of fine flour, and the yolks of five eggs. Boat the ingredients thoroughly, and mix m gradually a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, a glass of sherry, four ounces of picked and dried currants, and last of all the whites of the c^gs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Boav