SAL SAL very fine ten ounces of lean pork or veal, with, the same quantity of raw pike or eel. Add to this mince a pound of fresh fat bacon, pound the whole together, and pass it through a sieve. Season well the forcemeat with salt and spices, and add to the above the trimmings of truffles, pounded with a little bacon, and passed through a sieve. Prepare a short paste, as in the recipe Salmon Pie, Hot. Butter a cold pie-mould of either round or oval shape, which set on a baking-sheet covered with paper, line it with two-thirds of the paste, and mask the bottom and sides with a thin layer of forcemeat; fill the hollow with the squares of fish, and the truffles and forcemeat mixed, range the preparation in a dome-shape fashion, rising above the rim of the mould, mask it with little slices of bacon, then with a thin round flat made with the remainder of the paste. Cover the pie, pinch, decorate, and give it a nice colour; push it into a moderate oven. Seven or eight minutes afterwards cover it entirely with paper; bake it for two hours; then remove it from the oven, and half an hour after ha\dng been taken out, pour into the hoUow on the top two glassfuls of aspic jelly mixed with a little Madeira. A quarter of an hour after take out the mould, and let the pie cool for twenty-four hours previous to being served. Salmon Pie, Hot.—Make a short paste as follows :—Take a pound of flour and spread it in a circle on a slab, lay in the centre the yolk of an egg, ten ounces of butter, half a glassful of water, and a pinch of salt. Dilute the butter with the liquid, and then intro- duce the flour gradually into it. As soon as a finn paste is obtained, break (iriser) it three times with the palms of both hands, gather it up, and set it on one side for half an hour. Take a round pie-mould, butter the inside well, and set it on a baking-sheet. Then make a quenelle forcemeat with ten or twelve ounces of the flesh of pike. Take about a pound and a half of fresh salmon, remove the * skin and bones, and divide the flesh into squares. Chop one onion, fry it in a stewpan with oil and butter, adding a few spoonfuls of fresh-chopped mushrooms. Whenever their moisture is reduced, add two or three raw chopped truffles and the pieces of salmon. Fry over a sharp fire for a few minutes, season with salt and spices, and moisten with half a glassful of madeira. Let the whole boil for a few minutes, keeping the saucepan covered. Mould two- thirds of the prepared paste into a ball, and roll it out into a thin, circular, flat form. Raise the sides of this paste, pressing it between the fingers so as to form the paste into a sort of bag. Lift the paste carefully, and place it on the mould, covering it well at the bottom and along the sides; cut the paste half an inch above the rim of the mould, and then mask it at the bottom and along the sides with a layer of forcemeat. Above this layer place half of the slices of salmon with some of the fine herbs; mask again with forcemeat, and pile up the rest of the fi.sh in a dome-like shape, rising above the rim of the mould. Cover the pieces of salmon with another layer of forcemeat, and place over ull the rest of the paste rolled out very thin. Fasten the two flats of paste on the edges, pressing the paste so as to render it thinner; cut it regularly, in order to be pinched all round with pastry-pincers. " With the trimmings of the paste," says M. Dubois, to whom we are indebted for the above particulars, " prepare a few imitation leaves, which arrange as a rosace on the dome, on the top of which form a small cavity; cover it with three small rounds of paste of different sizes, placed one above another like a pyramid. Egg the jjie, and push it into a moderate oven; seven or eight minutes later cover it with paper, and bake it for one hour and a half. On taking it out, ha^^ng put it on a dish, remove the mould, and cut the dome all round its centre, bj'- which aperture pour into the pie a little white sauce, reduced with extract prepared with wine, and the trimmings and bones of the pike and sal- mon. Cover the pie, and serve. Salmon, Potted.—Scale and dry a fresh salmon. Slit it down the back, take out the bone, and mix some grated nutmeg, mace, pepper, and salt, and strew it over the fish. Let it lie two or three hours; then lay it in a large pot or pan, put to it half a pound of butter, and bake for an hour. When done, lay it to di-ain; then cut it up, and put the pieces in layers, with the skin uppermost, in pots; place a board over the pots, and lay on it a weight to press the salmon down till cold : then take the board and weight off, and pour clarified butter over. Salmon potted in this way may be sent to table in pieces or cut in slices. Salmon, Potted, (another way).—Both dressed and undressed salmon may be potted. We first give a recipe for potting fresh salmon. Take a piece of salmon weighing about two pounds. Skin and clean it thoroughly; do not wash it, but wipe it with a dry cloth. Cut it into slices, and rub these with salt, then let them drain until dry. Season with a table- spoonful of white pepper, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne, and half a salt-spoonful of powdered mace. Lay the salmon in a jar, cover it with four ounces of butter, and bake in a slow oven. When it is done enough, pour off the gravy —which will be found useful for flavouring purposes—press the salmon into jars, and when cold cover it with butter which has been clarified and is just beginning to set. If liked, a bay-leaf, a finely-minced onion, and one or two anchovies may be laid between the pieces of salmon in the jar. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, salmon, Avhen plentiful. Is. or Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon, Potted (second dressing).— Take the remains of cold salmon. Free it from skin and bone, and then pound it tho- roughly in a mortar. Whilst pounding keep adding clarified butter—a few drops at a time —together with salt, cayenne, powdered mace, and a little ancho\'y. When it is moist, smooth, and pleasantly flavoured, press it into small jars, and pour over it clarified butter to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Put it in a cool place for twelve hours, when it will be ready for use.