SAL SAL P ( 819 ) known that marshes which have been over- tlowed by suit water give an improved appear- ance to the stock which gnizes in them. " If you take a very small quantity of hydro- chloric acid and salt and put it into water, and then add to it a portion of the white of an egg, and expose it to a temperature of 98", the egg begins to dissolve; but if you put it into wuter without the salt it does not dissolve. From this experiment you see there is this first action of salt in assisting digestion; you may see from this the propriety of adding small quantities of salt to our food. There are some persons who, from a morbid fancy, will not take it; such per- sons are preserved from danger by the cook who puts it into puddings and cooked meats, and the baker who puts it into the bread. " Such, in fact, appears to be the importance of salt in the blood, that a special provision appears to exist for maintaining, within certain, limits, of course, the quantity of salt at a given point. For we find that if we feed our animals either on food containing a large quantity or only a small quantity of salt, that the quantity of salt in the blood remains the same, any excess being thrown off from the system. Of course a long abstinence from salt in food will lead to a diminution in the blood, and ultimately to disease." The craving for salt appears to be universal, with one or two exceptions, noticed by Professor Johnston in the following extract from his "Chemistry of Common Life:"—"The wild buffalo frequents the salt-licks of North-western America; the wild animals in the central parts of Southern Africa are a sure prey to the hunter who conceals himself beside a salt spring; and our domestic cattle run peacefully to the hand that offers them a taste of this delicious luxury. From time immemorial it has been known that without salt man would perish miserably; and among horrible punishments entailing certain death, that of feeding culprits on saltless food is said to have prevailed in barbarous times. Maggots and corruption are spoken of by ancient writers as the distressing symptoms which saltless food engenders; but no ancient or unchemical modern could explain how such sufferings arose. Now we know why the animal craves salt, why it suffers discomfort, and why it ultimately falls into disease, if salt is for a time withheld. Upwards of half the saline matter of the blood (57 per cent.) consists of common salt, and as this is partly discharged every day through the skin and the kidneys, the necessity of continued supplies of it to the healthy body becomes sufficiently obvious. The bile also contains soda as a special and indispensable constituent, and so do all the cartilages of the body. Stint the supply of salt, therefore, and neither will the bile be able properly to assist the digestion nor the cartilages to be built up again as fast as they naturally waste. " And yet, what shows this craving for salt to arise out of a refined species of instinct, similar to that which may have fixed the national food of Ireland, is the fact that neither men nor animals are everywhere eager for or even fond of salt. Mungo Park describes salt as 'the greatest of all luxuries in Central Africa.' But the Damaras, in South-western Africa, never take salt by any chance; and even Eiuupeans travelling in this country never feel the want of it. 'Half of this people,' says Galton, 'live solely on pig-nuts, the most worthless and in- digestible of food, and requiring to be eaten in excessive quantities to afford nourishment enough to support Life.' Their neighbours, the Namaquas, set no store by salt; the Hottentots of Walfisch Bay ' hardly ever take the trouble to collect it;' and even the wild game in the Swakop do not frequent the salt rocks to lick them as they do in America. " In the colds of Siberia also, as in the heats of Africa, a similar disregard of salt sometimes prevails. ' Most of the Russians at Berezov,' says one writer, ' eat their food without a particle of salt, though that condiment can be obtained at a trifling cost: a sufficient quantity of it being always kept at the Government magazine and sold at a moderate price.' " The explanation of these cases, so inconsis- tent with our general experience, is f ovmd in the refined instinct of the body itself. When the food we usually eat conveys a sufficiency of salt into the body, it has no occasion for more. It therefore feels no craving for it, shows no liking to it, and takes no trouble to obtain it. And, doubtless, in the kind of food and drink con- sumed in the Damara country, and by the Russians of Berezov, either more salt than is usual is conveyed into the stomach, or their habits render less salt necessary to them or cause less to be daily removed from their bodies." Salt Fish..—Salt fish requires to be soaked before being dressed, the time being regulated by the hardness and dryness of the fish. The water should be changed two or three times during the process, and the fish should be brushed and washed when it is taken out. For very dry fish thirty-six hours' soaking will be needed, the water being changed at least four times. In ordinary cases twenty-four hours' soaking will be sufficient. It should be re- membered that the fish should be put in to soak Jlesh downwards. Boiled parsnips and egg sauce are the usual accompaniments to salt fish, which is occasionally served also with hard- boiled eggs, chopped small, strewn over it. For a change, the fish may be garnished with eggs cut into quarters and parsley. It should be dished on a neatly-folded napkin placed on a hot dish. Salt Pish (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Boil the fish in the usual way, free the flesh from skin and bone, and tear it into flakes. Mix a des- sert-spoonful of flour smoothly with two or three ounces of good butter. Stir them in a clean saucepan till the butter is dissolved, then add a pinch of salt and the third of a pint of boiling water. Stir the whole over the fire for a few niinutes, and add a table-spoonful of chilli vinegar and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Let all boil up once. Put the flaked fish into a saucepan, pour the sauce over it, and stir it over a gentle fire till it is quite hot. Turn it upon a hot dish, put round it boiled parsnips or mashed potatoes, and serve. The remains of cold salt fish may be di-essed in this way. Time, a few minutes to heat the fish in