( 1037 ) VEA VEA skin and gristle. Break up the "bones of the veal, and with them, the skixi and ti-inimings of the meat, and any flavouring ingredients that may be chosen, make a little good gravy. Strain this, and thicken it with a small piece of brown thickening, or with a small slice of butter. Season the gravy rather highly with pepper, mace or nutmeg, and anchovy, or mushroom powder. Flour the slices of veal, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, put them on a dish, pom* the gravy over, and serve very hot. Time, an hour or more to make the gravy. Veal, Cold, To Re-dress.—Cold yeal may be served in various ways, for which recipes are given under the different headings. It may be minced, hashed, or made into croquets and rissoles, curried, made into minced collops, and served with Tartar sauce, or made into a mould. For the latter method proceed as follows:—Cut cold-dressed veal into slices, and mince it finely, fat and lean together. Season as for minced veal, with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little lemon-rind. Moisten with white stock, and bind the whole together with yolk of egg. Press it into a buttered mould, cover closely, and put it into a pan of fast-boUing water. Let it simmer gently for an hour, or longer if large. Turn it out, and serve with white gravy, or if preferred brush it over after it is turned out with beaten egg, sprinkle finely-grated bread- crumbs thickly over it, brown it in a brisk oven, or before the fire, and send brown sauce to table with it. Garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Time to boil the mould, one hour or more. Veal, Collared, or Galantine of Veal. —Take a fine breast of veal. Put it into a stewpan with as much cold water as will cover it, and put with it an onion and a can-ot, half a dozen peppOTComs, a moderate-aized lump of sugar, and a pinch of salt. Bring the liquor quickly to the boil, skim carefully, then draw the saucepan back, and let it sim- mer gently for a couple of hom-s. Take it up, remove the bones and the gristle, and lay it flat upon the table skin downwards. Have ready prepared half a pound of lean ham cut into thin strips, four truffles cleaned and thinly sliced, and a forcemeat made with the hard-boiled yolks of twelve eggs pounded smoothly with three ounces of clarified butter, the grated rind of a lemon, as much grated nutmeg as veill cover a sixpence, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, a tea-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, two tea-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a tea-opoonful of anchovy. Rub the veal quickly across with a piece of freshly-cut garlic, sprinkle a little salt upon it, and rub the strained juice of a lemon into it. Spread the egg forcemeat equally over, and lay the truffle and ham upon this in alternate lines. Roll the veal up very tightly, bind it with tape, and tic it in a cloth. Sew it up securely. Put it again into the liquor in which it was simmered, add the bones and trim- mings, let it boil up, then simmer as gently as possible three hours longer. Let it remain in the liquor half an hour after it is taken from the lire. Put it on a board, lay a large dish with a heavy weight upon it, and let it remain until cold. Brush over with liquid glaze, and garnish with very stiff aspic jeUy cut into cubes, diamonds, &c. If preferred, good veal forcemeat may be used instead of the egg forcemeat, and the truffles may be omitted. Very good soup may bo made of the liquor in which the veal was stewed. Time, two hours to simmer the veal the first time, three hours the second. Probable cost, 14s. Sufficient for a luncheon or supper dish. Veal Collops (a I'lndienne). — See In- dian Veal Collops. Veal Collops, Braised.—Cut about a pound of the fillet of veal into neat rounds half an inch thick and about the size of a crown piece. Pick the leaves from a handful of parsley, wash them and chop them small, then mix with them a minced shallot and a small bunch of chives. Butter a stewpan thickly, sprinkle some of the herbs into it, and place in it alternate layers of veal and herbs until all the ingredients are used. Season each layer of veal with salt and pepper, and add a small slice of butter or a tea-spoonful of olive oil occa- sionally. Cover the whole with slices of bacon, and lay a round of oiled paper on the top. Put the lid on the stewpan, put a few red-hot cinders upon it (if this can be done), and stew the veal as gently as possible over a slow fii'e till it is tender. An-ange the pieces of veal in a dish. Half a glassful of light wine should be poured in when the veal is half di-essed. Put a little brown sauce into the stewpan, let it boU, and pour it over the collops. Veal Collops, Made with Dressed Veal.—Take the remains of roast veal. Cut the meat into slices three-quarters of an inch thick, three inches long, and two inches across. Gash these with a sharp knife, and sprinkle upon them salt and cayenne, pounded mace, or grated nutmeg. Cover them, and lay them aside till wanted. Break up the bonoe, and put them with the skin and trimmings of the meat into a saucepan. Cover with stock or v>'ater, and add an onion, a pinch of powdered mace, a few peppercorns, a smaU roU of lemon-rind, and a little salt. Let the gravy simmer till it is strong and pleasantly flavom-ed. Thicken it, and, sup- posing there is half a pint of it, stir into it a lew drops of strained lemon-juice, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and two table- spoonfuls of sherry. Flour and fry the collops in hot fat, put them in a dish, the sauce over them, and serve. Fried rashers of bacon should accompany this dish. If Uked, a few forcemeat balls may be interspersed with the meat in the dish, and three table-spoonfuls of thick cream, or two table-spoonfuls of milk beaten up with the yolk of an egg, may be stirred into the sauce. Time to fry the collops, about six minutes; one hour to make the gravy. Veal Collops Made with Fresh Meat.—No. 1. Veal collops should be taken from the shoulder or the fillet. Cut the meat in slices half an inch thick, three inches long, and two broad. Flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and dredge them well with flour. Take as many rashers of bacon a quarter of an inch thick as there are slices of veal. Fry these in