ROL ( 7fi6 ) ROL pound of salt upon each pound and a half of spawn. Lt)t thoni lie in tho brino for two days, turning thoni over ocoisionally. Lay them on a board placod in front of tho fire, and distant about a yard from it, and let thom roinain f(jr ton or twelve hours till they aro quite dry. Crush thom well with a weight, and press thoni into a perfectly dry jar. Put on each pound and a half of spawn twelve drojjs of spirit of nitre and as much pounded saltpetre as can be piled on a sixpence. Cover tho jar with writing-paper upon which has boon spread a thick coating of cold lard, tie a piece of wash- leather over this, and store the preparation in u warm place. It is used as a relish, and should bo served spread thinly on bread and •lutter or toast. Roes, Smoked.—Those are usually cut into thin slices and eaten on bread and butter as a cold relish, without f m-ther cooking than they have received when bought. They may also be soaked for a few hours in cold water, or very lightly boiled, and then fried in butter or oil. Roll, Forced.—Take a rasped French roll, cut a lid off one end, and scoop out the crumb. Make a ragoiit or hash of pigeon, veal, beef, or sweetbreads, or anything else at hand; fill the roll with it while warm; put on the top ; fasten it with a little white of egg; dip the roll in milk, and fiy in plenty of hot lard or butter. Rolla Cheese (a breakfast or supper dish). —Di\'ide about two pounds of prepared tripe into pieces three inches square, the rough side inwards. Lay on each one of these a narrow strip of the skirts of beef ; cut fat and lean to- gether, and do not entirely cover the tripe with the beef. Season with pepper and salt, and roll the tripe up with the meat in it. Tie the rolls with twine, and sew the edges together. When the rolls ai e all made, drop them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and let them boil softly imtil a straw will easily penetrate them. Take them up, drain them, lay them side by side in a dish, put a board with a weight upon them to press them, and let them remain until cold. Keep them in a pickle of vinegar and water, and before ser\'ing cut them into thin slices. Rolled Beef.—To make a pickle, pound the following ingredirnts to powder: — Six pounds of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, eight ounces of mois^t sugar, a table-spoonful of chopped herbs—consisting of thyme, basil, mar- joram, savory, and bay-leaves—a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of mace, half an oimce of pepper- corns, and a clove of garlic. The latter may be omitted. Take a square piece of tho thin end of the flank of beef, weighing from eight to twelve pounds. Bono and skin it, rub it well in every part with the powder, and turn and rub it every day for throe days. Wash and wipe it dry, and spread upon the inside a layer of good veal forcemeat. Roll the beef in the form of a bolster, bind it tightly, tie it in a cloth, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiling water as will cover it, adding also a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and a few 8ti(.kB of celery. Let the liquor boil for one minute, skim it, draw tho saucepan to the side of the fire, and lot its contents simmer gently till the beef is done enough. Let it remain in the Uquor until it is partially cooled, take it up without untying the string, put it between two difihes, place a weight upon it, and let it stand till cold. Before serving, brush it over with two coats of liquid glaze, and garnish with parsley. If it is wished that the beef should be served warm, take it when it has been pressed and is almost cold, and warm it again in a litth; of tho liquor in which it was boiled. Skim this carefully, boil it up with a spoonful of brown thickening, stir into it a glass of sherry and any seasoning that may be required, and pour it round the beef. Garnish the dish with glazed carrots. Instead of rubbing the beef with the savoury-powder, it may, if preferred, be ijrepared for boiling as follows :—Bone and skin the beef, and rub into it every day for a week salt mixed with a fourth of its weight in sugar. Wash and dry it, lay it on the table, and strew over the inside a savoury-powder made by mixing together a dozen pounded cloves, half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of an oimce of mace, a pinch of cayenne, two large table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, and a table-spoonful of chopped herbs, consisting of thyme, marj oram, bay-leaves, and basil. Roll the meat in the form of a bolster, bind it tightly, and tie it in a cloth as before. The easiest way of glazing the beef when it is to be served cold, is to procure a quarter of a poimd of glaze from the grocer's, dissolve it by putting it in a jar into boiling water, and when it is melted brush it over the meat. Time to simmer the beef after it has once boiled, half an hour per pound. Sufficient for a handsome and excellent dish. Probable cost, flank of beef, 9d. per pound. Rolled Veal (for breakfast, supper, or luncheon).—Bone a breast of veal, lay it flat on the table, and spread over the inside a layer of good veal forcemeat the third of an inch in thickness. Add in alternate rows a table- spoonful of green pickles, and three hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise, and lay over all some slices of lean undressed ham. Roll the veal tightly, and bind securely -with tape.' Put it into a saucepan of stock, let it boil, then draw it to the side, and simmer as gently as possible till tender. Take the veal up, put it on a dish, lay a board with a weight upon it, and let it remain until cold. Take off the tape, fasten the veal with a silver skewer, trim it neatly, and brush over with glaze. Grar- nish the dish with parsley, green pickles, clear jelly cut into dice, &c. Time to simmer the veal, about three hours. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Rolls {see Breakfast Cakes or Rolls). Rolls, Baker's.—No. l. Put three pounds of fine flour into a large bowl, scoop a hole m tho centre not qiiito to the bottom, and put mto this a piece of salcratus, tho size of a bean, dissolved in half a tea-cupful of hot wat^-r, a toa-spoonful of «alt, and a table-apoonful