( 886 ) SNI SNI Pies), iiiid imt a layer of the forcomoat in the bottom of the mould, taking care to loavo it hollow in the centre. Tut half the jjieces of snipo in a circle upon the forconicat, and place a little biill of forcemoa' between them to ko(!p them in position. Spread a layer of forcemeat upon them, put in the rest of the birds, and put a layer of forcemeat over all. KU the hollow in the centre of the pic with bread which has been covered with fat bacon, put the pastry- cover on the top, pinch the edges of the pie securely, brush it over with egg, and bake in the oven. When done enough, take off the cover, remove the bread, and fill its place with scalloped truffles. Pour a little good brown sauce over all, pile truffles on the top, and serve. The brown sauce may be made as directed in Snipe Pudding, Superior. Snipes, Roasted.—Pluck the birds very carefully so as not to tear the tender skin, and singe and truss without drawing them [sue Snipes, To Truss). Hang the birds feet do\\'n- wards to a spit, put them to a clear fire, and baste frequently with butter or dripping. When they have been down five minutes, put under them slices of the crumb of bread toasted and buttered on both sides. This toast is intended to catch the droppings of the trail, and is con- sidered by epicures a greater delicacy than the bird itself. A slice should be allowed for each snipe. After the toast is put under the birds, a dish should be held under them when they are basted. When they are done enough, which will be when the steam draws to the fire, flour and brown them. Take them up, dish them with a slice of toast under each, and serve without any sauce in the dish with them. If liked, a slice of lemon may accompany the birds, or a little plain melted butter may be sent to table in a tureen. Snipes should be served very hot, or they will be comparatively worthless. They should not be over roasted; indeed, it is said that some epicures consider they are in perfection when they have been simply carried through a hot kitchen. The thigh is the best part. Garnish the dish with watercresses. Some cooks tie slices of bacon round the birds before roasting them. Time to roast, twenty to twenty-five minutes; five minutes less if liked underdone. Probable cost, 2s. to 3s. per brace. Sufficient, four snipes for a dish. Snipes, Roasted (another way).—Pluck, singe, and draw the snipes, remove the giz- zards, and carefully preserve the trails. Truss the birds, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie these on securely with twine. Put them down before a clear fire. Take a slice of the crumb of bread for each bird, and toast and butter it on both sides. Chop the trail, spread it on the toast, and put the slices in a brisk oven. Take the birds up, and dish them on the slices of toast in a hot dish. T'ime to roast, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Snipes, Roasted, with TrTiffles.— Pluck, truss, and roast the snipes in the usual way with slicec of buttered toast under them. "When done enough, take them up, and put inside each bird one or two truflies which have been stowed in brown sauce. Send the Bauce which remains to table in a tureen, and serve very hot. Snipes, Salmi of.—Take the remains of cold dressed snipes, and cut off the mt-at in neat slices. Bruise the bones and trimmings m a mortar, and put them into a stew]>an with two shallots, two cloves, a slice of lean un- dressed ham, a carrot, a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pint of stock. Let these ingredients stew gently together for an hour; strain the sauce, and return it to the saucepan with a slice of fresh butter rolled in flour, and half a tumblerful of claret or madeira, and any remains of toast covered with trail that there may be. Simmer the sauce again until it coats the spoon. Put the slices of snipe into a clean saucepan, strain the sauce over them, and heat them gently oy the side of the fire without allowing them to boil. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with fried sippets. Time, an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the birds. Sufficient for three or four persons. Snipes, Superlative. — Prepare some forcemeat as follows:—Take three ounces of fat bacon and three ounces of fowl's liver, and cut both into pieces an inch square. Frj- the bacon over a sharp fire, move it about con- stantly, and in three or four minutes add the liver. When this is half done, mince it finely with the bacon, season the mixture -with a little pr^nared seasoning {see Herbs, Aromatic, Powderea), add a httle salt and half a clove of gai'lic if liked, and pound all in a mortar to a smooth, compact mass. Press it through a wire sieve, and keep it in a cool "place if not wanted immediately. Roll out one-half of it with a little flour, form it into a sort of thick band, and arrange it in a circle at the bottom of a dish. Take four partially-roasted snipes, split them open down the back, and spread forcemeat, a quarter of an inch thick, over the inside of each. Lay the birds in the centre of the dish, and cover them lightly with forcemeat. Smooth them with the flat part of a knife which has been dipped in hot water, and put the dish into a quick oven. Wipe away the fat which has come from the forcemeat, pour truffle sauce over the snipes, and serve. Time, twenty-five minutes to bake the entree. Probable cost of snipes, very variable. Sufficient for three persons. Snipes, to Truss. — Handle the birds lightly, pluck them carefully so as not to tear the skin, and pick them entirely, neck and head. Do not draw them, but wipe them with a clean soft cloth. Twist the joints of the logs to bring the feet back upon the thighs, and press the logs close to the body. Turn the head under the wing, and pass the bill through the thighs and body. Tie a string round the legs and breast to keep the legs straight, and pass it also round the head and the tip of the bill. Hang the birdp to the spit with tlio feet downwardis.