WIN WIN ( 1131 ) pulp without bruising the stones, and let the mass stand twenty-four hours. Press the pulp through a coarse hair sieve, and to every three gallons add from eight to nine pounds of loaf sugar. Put the mixture into a cask, add yeast, and jillow it to ferment, then rack the wine from its lees as soon as it grows clear. Some makers of cherry wine crack the stones and hang them with the bruised kernels in a bag suspended from the bung-hole and in the cask during the fermentation of the wine, which thus acquires a nutty flavour, A good deal of this wine is made in Russia, where it is a com- mon practice to add honey to the cherries. Wine, Cider.—ilix sixteen gallons of apple-juice, sixteen pounds of honey, four oimces of white tartar; enclose in a bag one ounce each of cinnamon, cloves, and mace, and suspend it in the mixture while fermenting. When the fermentation is complete, add one gallon of rum. Wine, Clary.—Take nine gallons of cold soft water, six pounds of honey, thirty pounds of the best loaf sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a froth; mix all these together, and boil for an hour and a half, skimming and stirring nearly all the time. Pour the Kquor into a cooler and add four quarts of clary tops in flower; work it at the proper temperature with good fresh ale yeast, keeping it closely covered up and stirred well. Pick, stone, and cut in pieces fourteen pounds of good Malaga raisins; pour over them three gallons of luke- warm water that has been well boiled, stir well, and let them steep for five days. At the end of that time press the fi'uit in a hair bag, strain the liquor from the flowers, add to it the rinds of ten lemons pared thin and their juice strained, and put this into the cask, filling up, and keep it open three or four days until the fermenta- tion has entirely ceased. Then add two quarts of French brandy, and stop it up for three months, after which rack it off into a clean cask, filter the lees, and fill the same cask again, adding six ounces of sugar-candy bruised, and an ounce of isinglass dissolved in two quarts of wine. Stop it up securely, and keep it eighteen months in a cool dry cellar; then bottle the wine, seal the corks, and in a twelvemonth it will be fit for use. Wine, Coltsfoot.—Take ten gallons of river water, and boil with it twenty-six pounds of sti .mg moist sugar and the whites of ten eggs well beaten, three-quarters of an hour, skimming well all the time. Pour the liquor boiling hot on three pecks of fresh-gathered coltsfoot flowers and ten pounds of Malagas stoned and cut small; cover the vessel up close, and let them infuse three days, stirring three times daily. Then make two gallons of the liquor scalding hot, stir it well into the rest, and add six or seven table-spoonfuls of good yeast; keep it well mixed and covered up, until it has worked freely, then strain it into your cask upon three ounces of the best ginger bruised and the thin rinds of six Seville oranges and let it remain open, covering the bung-horo with a tilo until it has ceased fermenting. Add three half-pints of French brandy and a bottle of strong madeira wine, stop it up securely, and keep it twelve months; then bottle it, and drink in six months more. This is a valuable wine for its medicinal properties. Wine, Cowslip.—Take seven poimds of moist sugar, two gallons and a half of water, . and two oimces of hops, and boil them together. Pare the rinds of eight lemons or Seville oranges, or a part of each; pour the boiling liquor over them; when this is cool squeeze the juice over it, and add this to the liquor. Ferment the whole with yeast in the usual way, and put it into the cask. Gather cowslips on a fine day, carefully picking out all stalks and ^ leaves. Put into the cask of wine as much of the flowers as would equal a quart when fresh gathered for every gallon; stir well till the flowers sink. Dissolve three ounces of isin- glass in a little of the wine, and return it to the rest to fine; in a few days bung it up close. In six months the wine will be fit for bottling, but it will improve by being kept longer in the cask. By managing as just described, the wine win be fined in the cask, and will be as good from the cask as if bottled, which will be a great saving of trouble. Wine, Currant, Red.—Bruise eight gallons of red cmrants with one quart of rasp- berries. Press out the juice, and to the residuum, after pressure, add eleven gallons of cold water. Add two poimds of beetroot sliced as thin as possible to give colour, and let them infuse, with frequent mixture, for twelve hours; then press out the liquor as before, and add it to the juice. Next dissolve twenty pounds of raw sugar in the mixed liquor, and three ounces of red tartar in fine powder. In some hours the fermentation will commence, which is to be managed as in the case of gooseberry wine. When the fermentation is completely over, add one gallon of brandy; let the wine stand for a week, then rack off, and let it stand for two months. It may now be finally racked off, bunged up in the cask, and set by in a cool cellar for as many years as may be required to ameliorate it. Wine, Currant, White.—Bruise forty pounds of fruit in a tub holding fifteen or twenty gallons, and add to it four gallons of water. Stir the whole well, and squeeze tiU the pulp is thoroughly separated from the skins. Leave these materials at rest for about twelve hours, and then strain them through a canvas bag or fine hair sieve, and pass one gallon of fresh water through the marc. Dissolve twenty- five or thirty pounds of white sugar in the juice thus obtained, and make up the whole quantity by an addition of ten gallons and a half of water. The proportion of sugar here given IS for a brisk wine : if a sweet wine is required there must be forty pounds of sugar. ^Tiite sugar IS recommended as much the best; if moist sugar be used, somewhat more will be necessary. The must being now prepared, the fermentation and subsequent treatment must be exactly the same as for gooseberry wine. Tt brandy is to be added, it should be added towards the end of the fermentation in the