SAG ( 787 ) Sage and Onion Stufllng for Geese, Pork, and Ducks (another way).—Peel four large onions, and boil them fpr three minutes ; add about half-a-dozen sage-leaves, and boil all for two minutes longer. Strain off the liquor, and mince finely the onions and sage. Return them to the saucepan with a slice of fresh but- ter, a little pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs. Let all simmer gently together, and stir the mixture occasionally, to keep it from burning, for twenty minutes, when the stuffing will be ready for use. A beaten egg may be added if liked. Sage and onion stuffing is generally seasoned rather highly. When it is used for goose, the liver of the bird may be boiled, minced, and mixed with it. Time, half an hour. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized goose or a couple of ducks. Sage and Thyme.—The leaves of these plants are used fresh and dry, and form the flavouring of those ingredients which are put into the inside of ducks, geese, roast pigs, sausages, and other animal food brought to the table. " They are warm and discussive, and good against crudities of the stomach," accord- ing to an old writer on the subject. Sage Ctieese.—There is a kind of sage cheese which used to be, and perhaps still is, made by a few families in Gloucestershire for their private consumption: it is the most delicious of any of the green cheeses. It is intended for immediate use, and will not keep long. A quantity of young sage-leaves are bruised in a mortar, and the juice is extracted from them: the juice of a quantity of spinach is extracted by the same process and mixed with the sage-juice in equal pi-oportions. Just before the rennet is put to the milk, a quantity of this juice, equal to the colour and flavour intended to be given to the cheese, is mixed with the milk. As the curd is being formed, it is gently broken, and in equal lumps as nearly as possible. The whey is then separated, and the curd put into the vat and submitted to gentle and gradual pressure during seven hours. It is next salted twice a day for three or four days, and afterwards turned every day during five weeks. It is then fit for use. This cheese is very little known, and deserves to be more 80; it may be made anywhere with rich and unsophisticated milk. This is also, or ought to be, a one-meal cheese. Sage Gargle (for sore throat).—Boil a handful of sage-leaves in a pint of water till the liquor is reduced ono-haK. Strain it, let it get cold, then mix with it half a pint of vinegar, and sweeten with honey or sugar. A glassful of port may be added to the gargle, or not. Sage Goose Stufang [see Goose Stuffing, Sage and Onion). Sage, Onion, and Apple Stuffing for Geese, Pork, and Ducks.—Put four apples, four onions, four sage-leaves, and four lemon-thyme leaves into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them. Let them simmer till tender, then pour off the water, and rub them through a sieve. Season the pulp ■with pepper and salt, mix with it as much mashed potato as will make it dry and smooth, and the stuffing wUl be ready for use. If liked, a spoonful of boiled rice may be mixed with the sago and onions instead of the potatoes. Time, an houi- or more. Probable cost, about 4d. Suf- ficient for one goose or two ducks. Sage, Properties of.—Sage once had a high reputation for its medicinal qualities; but at present these do not appear to be mucli thought of. It possesses, however, some as- tringent and aromatic powers ; and a decoc- tion, or sage tea, is of use in cases of debility of the stomach, and in nervous disorders. The broad-leaved balsamic species is the most effi- cacious for its medicinal qualities and as a tea herb. Sage is also introduced into cheese, and we have given above an excellent recipe for the manufacture of sage cheese. Sage Tea.—"The virtues of sage," says Dr. Paris, " have been so extravagantly praised that, like many of our remedies, the plant ia fallen into disuse from the disgust which its panegyrists have excited. I am convinced, however, that in the form of infusion it pos- sesses some power of allaying the irritability of the stomach, and that, on many occasions, it will furnish a salutary Ijeverage." Sage, Varieties of.—The varieties of sage are the common or red, the green, the small- leaved or sage of \'irtue, and the broad-leaved or balsamic. The red is the principal sort in culinary use, having the most agreeable and fullest flavour; the green is next in estimation with the cook; but the small-leaved is generally preferred to those to eat as a raw herb and for decoctions, while the broad-leaved balsamic species is the most efficacious in a medical way, and is also a tea herb. However, any of the sorts may be occasionally used for these alter- nate purposes. Sage, Wholesomeness of.—" The gar- den sage [Salvia officinalis) was formerly in great repute as a sudorific, aromatic, astringent, and antiseptic. It possesses stimulant properties in a high degree, is tonic and stomachic; the odour is strong, aromatic, and agreeable; the taste bitter, pungent, and somewhat resembling camphor, which substance, indeed, is contained in the plant. The leaves are often employed in seasoning dishes, especially in the South of Europe. The Chinese esteem this plant very highly, and use it as a tonic for strengthening the stomach, often giving it the preference to their own tea."— Sage Wine, Green.—Take nine pounds of good honey, and boil them with ten gallons of river or rain-water and the whites of ten eggs well beaten. Boil for one hour, skimming till the liquid is clear; while hot, pour it upon forty pounds of good Malaga raisins picked from the stalks and stoned and cut small, and three pecks of green sage-leaves freshly gathered and shred roughly. Cover the preparation closely, and stir now and again for forty-eight hours. At the end of that time press the "fruit in a hair bag, strain the liquid into a clean vessel, and on the following day draw off what is clear into a cask. Filter the lees, and add them with the rinds of six lemons and four Seville oranges pared thin, and the juice of both strained.