( 1040 ) VEA VEA cost, voal, 1b. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ton persons. Veal Custard.—Break throe fresh eggs iiito a bowl, take out tlio 8])ock8, and boat them till light. 8tir into thoni gradually half a pint of boiling voal gravy, atld a seasoning of salt and cayenne, a pinch of powdered mace, and a tea-spoonful of lightly-grated lemon-rind. Butter some cups, and three-parts till them with the custard. Bake them in a gentle oven till they are set, then turn them upon a dish, and pour a little good veal gravy round them. If pre- ferred, the custard may be baked in a small disk edged with pastry. Time to bake tho custard, fifteen to twenty minutes. Veal Cutlets.—Veal cutlets may either be cut from the best end of the neck, or what is Ciilled a veal cutlet may bo taken from the fillet. Chops only are taken from the loin. If cut from the neck the chine-bone, gristle, and skin should be removed, and the upper part of the rib-bones shortened. After being trimmed, the meat should be beaten with a cutlet-bat to make it smooth. A veal cutlet when trimmed weighs from six to eight ounces. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (another way).—Take two or three cutlets about three-quarters of an inch thick from the best end of the neck of veal. Flatten them with the cutlet-bat, sprinkle pepper and salt upon them, and fry them in butter or lard six minutes on each side. Take them up, drain them, and put them aside till cool. Take a sheet of stiff paper for each cutlet. Trim the edges to make it as nearly as possible of the shape of the cutlet, and be careful to leave a tolerably wide margin for folding over. Oil the paper, lay on it a slice of bacon, a spoonful of sauce, the cutlet, another spoonful of sauce, and another slice of bacon. Double the edges of the paper all round that the sauce may not escape. When the cutlets are to be served, broO. them over a very slow fire, and turn them over that they may be equally cooked. Serve them on a dish in the papers. The sauce with which they are to be covered may be made as follows:—Thicken a pint of nicely-flavoured stock with an ounce of flour. Boil it till it is smooth. Strain it, put it back into the sauce- pan, and boil till it is reduced to half the quantity. Stir into it a little grated ham, a little parsley, half a tea-spoonful of minced shallots, one or two chopped mushrooms if they are to be had, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and keep stirring for a few minutes. The sauce should form a stifE jelly when cold, and if the stock of which it is made is not sufficiently strong for this a little gelatine may be dissolved in it to make it so. Time to broil the cutlets, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (another way).—Soak the cutlets in oil for an hour, and put into the oil a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a small onion finely minced, and a little pepper and salt. Drain and dry them. Lay each cutlet on a sheet of white paper which has boon well saturated with oil, cover with bread-crumbs. divide the fluid in which they hiivo been soakod equally among tho cutlets, und lay a slice of bacon upon each. Wrujj the cutlets in stilf wliito paper, and fold tho edges so that the juice cannot escape. Broil tlie cutlets some distance above a clear fire, and turn them that they may be equally cooked. Sometimes cutlets tlius prepared are roasted before a gentle fire, instead of being broiled, liavigote sauce, or good gravy, or a little lemon-juice, may be served with the cutlets, or they may be sent to table with their own sauce only. Jt is a good plan to interpose a piece of oiled paper between tho paper envelope and the heated gridiron. Time to broil tho cutlets, about twenty minutes. Veal Cutlets (another way).—See Cutlets, Veal. Veal Cutlets (a la Dauphin).—Take six fine cutlets of veal, and pare them on one side only, but all on the same side : lard them like a fricandeau, only let the bacon be cut finer ; let them be braised also in the same manner as a fricandeau; then reduce the liquor in which they have been stewed, with which you glaze them. Serve up with either endive or sorrel. Veal Cutlets (a la Pinanciere). — Take the best end of a neck of veal. Saw off the rib-bones so as to make the cutlets about three inches long, and the chine-bone, and divide the meat into cutlets of an even thickness. Trim them neatly, flatten them with the cutlet-bat, and lard through the lean part evenly and closely with quarter-inch strips of fat bacon. Line the bottom of a small stewpan with sUced carrot, onion, and celery, and add a bunch of herbs and an onion stuck with six cloves. Lay the cutlets upon the vegetables, pour upon them as much stock or water as will barely touch the surface of the veal, and cover the meat with a round of oUed paper. Place the stewpan on a gentle fire, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible tiU the cutlets are tender. Baste frequently with the liquor in the pan. Take up the cutlets, and put them on a dish with the larded side uppermost. Strain the stock in which they were stewed. _ Thicken with a small piece of brown thickening. Let it simmer by the side of the fire that it may throw up the grease, which should be carefully removed. Stir into the sauce a \sdne-glassful of ketchup, a wine-glassful of sherry or madeira, and a pinch of cayenne. Pour the sauce round the veal cutlets, and serve very hot. Stewed mushrooms, or truffles, or different kinds of dressed vegetables, may be ser^'ed with this dish. Time to simmer the cutlets, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, veal, Is. to Is. 2d. per pound. Veal Cutlets (a la IMaintenon, or En Papil- lotes).—This mode of dressing cutlets is Sii\d to have been invented by Madame de Mamtenon, Louis XIV.'s favourite, to tempt the failing appetite of tho king when he was advauccHi in age. Take some cutlets from the best end of the neck of veal. Saw off the chine-bone, trim away the skin and gristle, shorten tho rib-bones, and pare away the meat from the tip o£ the