RIG BIC ( 742 ) time to the sugar und oggs, and boat the mixture bctwoeu ovory addition. At least half an hour sliouldhe occupied with putting in the flour aud boating the cako. Add the whites of the oggs beaten to snow, the pool of a lemon finely shrod, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Boat the cake a quarter of an hour longer, and bake in a well-heated ovon. Probable cost, Is. 8d. No. 5.—Beat the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of eight. Add a few drops of almond flavouring, and beat in three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar and one pound of ground rice. Boat the mixture till it is smooth and light, put it into a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven. Probable cost. Is. 8d. Time, according to size. When a skewer can be pushed to the bottom of the csike in the centre and be brought out clean and dry, the cake is done enough. Bice Cakes, Small.—No. i.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to cream. Add four ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, four ounces of ground rice, and one or two drops of any flavouring that may be liked. Add, gradually, first the yolks and afterwards the whites of four well-whisked eggs. Beat the mixture to a paste, and bake in a small buttered tin in a well-heated oven. Probable cost. Is. No. 2. —Beat four ounces of butter to cream. Add eight ounces of finely-pounded sugar, eight oimces of ground rice, and the yolks and whites of four well-beaten eggs. Drop the mixture in cakes on a buttered baking-tin, sift sugar over them, and bake in a well- heated oven. Probable cost, Is. 3d. No. 3.— Rub three ounces of butter into half a pound of rice-flour. Moisten the mixture with a little cold water. When it is quite smooth roU it out tin it is very thin, stamp it into small cakes, and bake in a quick oven. No. 4.— The remains of cold boiled rice may be beaten up with milk and eggs, and a little flour to make a batter, then fried in hot fat till they are lightly browned, and served for breakfast. Bice, Canadian.—Canadian rice is the seed of the zizania aqiiatica. It grows on the margins of shallow streams and running waters, and produce an abundance of wholesome fari- naceous grain. It is called in Canada, lake rice, tuscarora or mahnomonee, and is foimd in shallow waters from Florida to the Canadian lakes. It is regularly harvested by the Indians, this work being chiefly performed by their squaws; but it is not gathered in any quantity by the white population, although it is esteemed a great delicacy. It has been tried in this country, and it is likely it would succeed if it should become an object of demand: as it is aquatic, it can be cheaply cultivated. Bice, Casserole of.—Pick the rice well, wash it thoroughly first in lukewarm and next in cold water. Drain it, and throw it into a stewpan of a proper size, that it may swell with case: moisten with, some "pot-top" (fat). The broth must be previously drained through a silk sieve, that the rice may be ktjpt very clean. Mix it with a large quantity of grease some pieces of fat ham—in order to make the rice more mellow, and a little salt. As the rice must swell very much, use a sulJicieut quantity of broth to produce that ett'ect. La\' the rice on a very slow lire, and stir frequently that it may not stick. Taste it to ascertain whether it is well seasoned and done enough . then strain it through a colander, and move it well with a wooden spoon. Take oif the fat that issues from the rice and jxjur it into thi^ mould which you select for the casserole; when all the parts of the latter are well covered with the grease, drain it by turning the mould upside down, then put some rice all round the mould; put a piece of soft bread in the middle, and cover it with rice, squeeze it in equally with your spoon, and let it cool. When the rice has become firm, dip the outside of the mould into boiling water. Have a httle pate brisee, which frame the size of the mould, turn the mould over the paste ; make an open- ing with a knife in the top, and flatten the paste all round with a spoon ; then put it into the oven, which can never be too hot for a casserole, for if the oven is not hot enough the casserole is liable to break; baste with the grease, and when the casserole is become of a fine colour, take it out of the oven; open it gently, then cut the bread into small pieces with a penknife, that you may take it out without injuring the casserole; next remove the rice that sticks round, but do not empty it too much, for fear it shoiild not bear or resist the weight of whatever you intend to throw in. You generally put into these casseroles white and brown ragouts, blanquettes, eminces, fri- cassees of fowls, macaroni, and scollops of fish that have already been sent up to table, &c. &c. Bice Cassolettes.—The rice must be prepared as directed in the recipe, " Rice Casserole of," but must be put into smaller moulds, those called dariole or custard moulds ; and the mould must be buttered all round, or you may use the fat from the rice as above. IVIind that the cassolettes are to be quite cold before you take them out of the mould. The best method of filling up the cassolettes is to take a caiTOt, and cut it a proper large size, to make a hole in the rice; this hole you fill up with a mince of fowl, with bechamel sauce. This mince must be thoroughly cold. When you fiU up the mould with the rice, close it. without aUoNving any of the mince to be mixed with the rice, in which case the cassolettes would break in the dripping when you fry them. To prevent this accident, dip them in beaten egg and crumbs once, and put them into very hot dripping. It is to be observed, that in making cassolettes the rice must be made quite firm ; and that they require some- thing of a white colour to be added ; as a mince with white sauce, a mince of palates and of mushrooms a I'Allemande, or fillets of fish with bechamel sauce, &c. You may likewise give them a light brown colour in the oven, the same as other casseroles of rice, but frjnng is the best and the quickest way. Bice Caudle, or Bice Milk.—Soak two table-spoonfuls o£ whole rice in a cupful of cold water for one houi-. Strain it, and put it