POT ( 635 ) POT the potatoes. Probable cost, Id. or Hd. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds of potatoes for four or five persons. Potatoes, Mock New, in Cream — Wash and peel a number of old potatoes of a, small size, and cut them do^vn to the size of new potatoes. Boil them in salt-and-water for eight or ten minutes, then pour off the liquid, cover with a cloth, and let them steam by the side of the fire for ten minutes. Ahnost cover them with cream, sprinkle a little siilt over them, and let them simmer very gently until they are quite done enough, but whole. Lift them out carefully with a spoon, pour the cream over them, and serve very hot. If preferred, white sauce may be used instead of cream. Time, half an hour. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. or Ud. per pound. Allow half a dozen for each person. Potatoes Moulded with Parmesan. —Mash some potatoes till quite smooth, and bind them together with one or two well-beaten eggs. Put them into a dish, and shape them in a dome-like form high in the centre. Smooth the surface, and afterwards draw the back of a fork gently over it, and sprinkle upon it some finely-grated Parmesan. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and bake the potatoes till they are brightly browned. Serve very hot. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient, two pounds of potatoes for four or five persons. Potatoes, New, Boiled.—Take freshly- dug new potatoes. Wash them well, and rub off the skin with a flannel or a coarse cloth. Throw them into boiling salted water, in which a sprig of mint may be put if the flavour is not disliked, and let them simmer gently until they are quite tender. Pour off the liquid, and let them stand by the side of the fire with the lid only half on the saucepan, till they are thoroughly dry. Put a slice of butter into a hot vegetable tureen, pile the potatoes over this, and serve very hot. New potatoes should be cooked before they have been twenty- four hours out of the ground. Although agreeable to the taste, they are by no means 80 digestible as fully-grown tubers. Time to boil, fifteen to thirty minutes, according to size. Probable cost. Id. to l^d. per pound. Sufficient, three pounds for six persons. Potatoes, New, Stewed in Butter.— Take new potatoes when they first come into season and are young and small. Rub off the skins with a flannel or coarse cloth, wash and dry them well, and put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter—four oimces will be enough for a good-sized dish. Let them steam gently until they are done enough, shaking the saucepan every two or three minutes, that they may be equally cooked. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and serve very hot. Time to stew, about half an hour. Pro- bable cost, when they first come into the mar- ket. Is. per pound or more. Sufficient, three pounds for a dish. Potatoes, Preserved.—Potatoes mavbe preserved so as to endure the longest voyages by tho'-oughly desiccating them in an oven, or- by steam heat. To facilitate the operation, the tubers, either raw or thi-ee-parts dressed, are usually first cut into dice three-quarters of an. inch square. Potatoes, Rolled.—Take two pounds of boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Mash them well, flavour wdth grated nutmeg, and beat them up with an ounce of clarified butter^ a table-spoonful of sherry, and the yolks of two eggs. Make the mixture into a roll, brush it over with beaten egg, sprinkle finely-grated bread-crumbs equally over it, and bake in a well-buttered dish till it is nicely browned aU over. Serve on a hot dish, and pour over it a sauce prepared as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg, and mix with it two glassfuls of hght wine. Add a little sugar and grated nutmeg,.. and whisk the mixture over the fire until it begins to thicken. Take it off at once, and serve immediately. Time, two or three minutes to boil the sauce; about half an hour to brown . the roll. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine,. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potatoes, Savoury (a German recipe).— Half-boil six or eight large potatoes, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, or, if preferred, substitute two ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces for the butter. Add a minced onion, and let it stew until tender. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour into the- butter, and stir until it is smooth and brown ; then pour in gradually as much boiling stock or water as will make the sauce of the consistency of cream. Add a pinch of thyme and mar- joram, a large table-spoonful of chopped parsley,, some pepper and salt, and a little grated nut- meg, a bay-leaf, or any other flavouring. Let the sauce simmer a few minutes, put in the sliced potatoes, and when they are tender without being broken, turn the whole upon a dish, and serve very hot. If liked, the butter and flour may be kept from browning, and a little milk may be used to thin the sauce. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, Is^ Sufficient for three or four persons. Potatoes, Scalloped.—Mash some pota- toes in the usual way with butter and a little hot milk. Butter some scallop-shells or patty- pans, fill them with the mashed potatoes, make- them smooth on the top, and then di-aw the- back of a fork over them. Sprinkle finely- grated bread-crumbs on the top, and lay smaE pieces of butter here and there upon them. Put the potatoes in a Dutch oven before the- fire till they are brightly browned, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin in the scallop-shells. Time, about a quarter of an hour to brown the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. or 1-Jd. per pound. Sufficient, one scaUop-shell for each person. Potatoes, Sliced (German way of cooking).—Dissolve two ounces of butter in. a saucepan, mix one ounce of flour smootlily with it, and stir the paste until it is lightly brovsTied. Add a table-spoonful of vinegar, a small lump of sugar, a quarter of a pint of hot stock, and a bay-leaf, and boil th<.- sauce Until it is of the consistency of cream.-