( 1001 ) TUB f.ph in n moderate oven, and when it is done fuough lift it carefully upon tho dish on wliich it is to bo served, keep it hot, aud prepare the sfiuce as follows:—Pour the hquor from the baking-dish into a saucepan, thicken with a httle flour and butter, stir over the fire for a minute or two, and then serA'e in a tureen. The sauce may bo varied by the addition of a little essence of anchovy, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon-juice; or a little white sauce may be added, or a dozen mushrooms,' or a dozen scalded and bearded oysters. Garnish the turbot with scraped horseradish and sUced lemon or fried bread or green parsley. Time to balce the turbot, twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, a moderate-sized turbot for five or six persons. TUKBOT KETTLE. Turboty Boiled.—Empty the fish, wash it inside with scrupulous nicety, then remove the scales and gills, and trim the fins, but do not cut them off, as the gelatinous parts about them are esteemed a great delicacy. Rub a little salt all over the outside of the fish—this will make the slime come off more easily, and do away with the necessity for soaking the fish. AVash it until it is as clean as possible. Dry it, and rub it with a cut lemon or a little vinegar. Draw a sharp knife just through the skin in the thickest part of the middle of the back on the dark side of the fish. This is to keep the skin from cracking on the white side. Put as much cold water as will be required to cover the fish into a turbot-kettle, and dissolve in this a little salt in the proportion.' of six ounces of salt to a gallon of water. Bring the water to the boil and remove the scum as it rises. Lay the turbot on the fish-drainer the white side up, lower it into the boiling water, draw it back at once, and simmer the fish very gently until it is done enough. As soon as this point is reached, take it up, drain the water from it, and shp it, the white side up, upon a hot dish covered with a napkin or fish-paper. Garnish with parsley, cut lemon, and scraped horseradish, and if it should happen unfor- tunately that the fish is at all cracked, lay two or three little pieces of parsley upon it, so as to cover the crack. Plain melted butter, shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, Dutch sauce, and lobster sauce may all be served with boiled turbot. When lobster sauce is used, a little of tho spawn may be rubbed through a sieve and sprinkled over the fish. Some cooks have an idea that the best parts of the fish lie in the back, therefore they dish tlie turbot with the dark side uppermost. However this may be, the turbot looks best with the white side on the top.^ It is impossible to give the exact time for boiling, as turbot varies much in thickness as wfll as in size. When the flesh appears to 2 o* shrink from the bone it is done, and it should be carefully watched, as if it boils too long it will be broken and spoilt. Time, a moderate- sized tui-bot, fifteen to twenty minutes to simmer gently from the time tho water boils; large, twenty to thirty-five minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Turbot, Broiled.—Clean a small turbot, and di-y it well. Lay it on a dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt on it, and pour over it four table-spoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar or lemon-juice. When it is to be dressed place it in a double gridiron, and broU it over a slow clear fire. Turn it every five or six minutes, and on each occasion brush it over with the marinade in the dish. When it is done enough —that is, when the flesh will leave the bone easily—put it upon a hot dish, and pour over it some good white sauce, or oyster sauce, or mussel sauce. Garnish with parsley and prawns. Time to broil, about half an hour. Turbot, Broiled (another way).—ISIari- nade the turbot in sweet oil, salt, pepper, &c., and broil it on a slow fire : it cannot be suf- ficiently done in this way in less than an hour. When you serve, cover with caper sauce, which is to be made as follows:—Make some melted butter with a Little glaze in it; when melted, throw in some essence of anchovies, a few capers, and a drop of vinegar. Then give a good seasoning, and pour the sauce over the fish. Turbot, Broiled, with Caper Sauce. —Take a small fish emptied and washed, make an incision in the back down to the bone ; then ■svipe it quite dry ; next lay it in a dish to steep in salt, pepper, and sweet oil; put in verj'- little oil, as it requires only sufficient to prevent it from drying. Half an hour, or even three- quarters of an hour, before dinner-time, broil the fish over a slow fire on both sides, and serve up with caper sauce. Turbot, Carving of .—Bun the fish-knife down from a to b, quite through the bone {see Fig. p. 1000); then cut slices in the direction of the dotted lines c e and c d. Turbot, Choosing of.—A middle-sized fish is the best. Turbot ought to be thick and of a cream-coloured white. If of a bluish tint and thin it is not good. The flesh ought to feel springy under pressure from the finger. Some- times turbot is slightly disfigured by having two or three red spots on the under side, and may be bought at a cheaper rate in consequence. These spots often disappear when they are rubbed \vith salt and lemon. Turbot is at its best from April to September. Turbot, Cold, To Serve a Second Time.—Turbot is so delicious and so ex- pensive that none of it should be wasted. The cold remains may he served in various ways, the different recipes for which are here given. They may be warmed in white sauce {see Turbot a la Bechamel and a la Creme), served with bread- crumbs {see Turbot a la Creme Gratine); they may be made into salad {see Turbot Salad), or curried, or pickled, or scalloped, or made into croquettes, or into a turbot pie, or into patties or vol-au-vents, or cut into neat pieces, and