( 1006 ) TUH should bo kept in a warm kitchen for some hours before being dreased. It is generally uuder- Btood that a moderate-sized turkey is more likely to be tender than a very lai-ge one. Turkey, Cold, to Fry—Divide the re- mains of a cold turkey into neat joints con- venient for serving. Dip these into beaten egg, and afterwards into seasoned bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Arrange them neatly on a dish, and pour over them a little good gravy made as follows:— Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with as much stock or water as will cover them, a bunch of parsley, one or two sticks of celery, and a little pepper and salt. Let them simmer gently for an hour, pour out the liquor, strain and skim it. Mince two ounces of lean ham finely, and brown them gently in a little butter. Dredge some flour over them, and pour to them the strained gravy fx'om the bones. Stew the gravy gently imtil it is wanted, skim well, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets and sliced lemon. Time, one hour and a half to make the gravy, five or six minutes to fry the joints of turkey. Turkey, Devil of. Dry.—The legs, back, gizzard, and rump of cold-dressed tur- key may be used for this dish. Score the meat along and across at regular distances, three- quarters of an inch apart, and thi-ee-quarters of an inch deep. Eub into the gashes a well- mixed seasoning made of a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of cayenne, and the strained juice of a lemon, and cover with freshly-made mus- tard. Brush the pieces of meat over with butter or oil, and broil over a clear fixe till they are brown and crisp without being at all burnt, and turn them over that they may be equally done on both sides. Send to table on a hot dish with little pieces of butter upon them. Dry toast may be served as an accompaniment. The devil will be all the more savoury if it is prepared some hours before it is broiled. If Uked, half a clove of garlic may be minced and mixed with the seasoning, or the following in- gredients may be used for flavouring instead of those given above :—Half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of curry-powder, half a salt- spoonful of cayenne, and a heaped salt-spoon- ful of mushroom or truffle-powder. Time, five minutes to prepare the devil, seven to ten minutes to broil it. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, evclusive of the meat, about 3d. Turkey, Devil of, with Sauce.— Devilled turkey prepared as above may be sent to table with sauce Robert, grill sauce, poivrade FEuce, curry sauce, thick melted butter flavoured with anchovy or ketchup, or with a sauce pre- pared as follows :—Mince four shallots or four young onions very finely, and put them into a small stewpan with as much good vinegar as will moisten them. Let them simmer gently tiU they are soft, then add a wine-glassful of strong gravy, a pinch of cayenne, half a glassful of wine, and a small nut of anchovy butter, or if this is not at hand, use six or eight drops of the essence of anchovy, and stir a small lump of butter into the same after it is strained and put into the tureen. Boil the sauce two or three minutes longer, and serve. If liked, the savoury joints may be stewed in as much stock as will barely cover them, and served on a hot dish with the sauce poured over them, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters length- ways, and arranged round the dish alternately with toasted sippets. Time to stew the legs, «S:c., nearly half an hour. Probable cost, vary- ing with the sauce. Sufficient for four or five persons. Turkey, Drawing of.—Lay the bird on its breast, push back the skin of the neck, and cut the neck itself off close to the body, but leave the skin long that it may be securely turned over. Remove the windpipe, and loosen the inside of the throat with the finger. Make an incision under the tail an inch and a half long, with the fingers remove the crop and the intestines, and be particularly careful not to break the gall-bladder, which is fastened to the liver, nor to let any of the gall touch the bird, as it will impart a bitter taste which cannot afterwards be removed. Wash the inside with a soft rag, pour water through it, and dry it carefully. Turkey, Dressed to Eat Cold.—Cold turkey makes a very useful dish for suppers, luncheons, collations, &c. It may either be stewed or roasted, and may be dished whole and glazed, when it will form a handsome dish; or it may be cut into pieces convenient for serving, when two dishes at least may be made of it. If it is to be roasted, stuff it with sausage-meat, truss it firmly, and roast in the usual way. Let it get cold, then lay two coats of dissolved glaze lightly and evenly upon it with a brush, and remember that one coat must dry perfectly before another is put on. When it is not convenient to prepare this glaze at home, it may be bought at the Italian ware- houses, and a quarter of a pound will be more than sufficient for a good-sized turkey. Garnish the turkey as prettily as possible with parsley, cut lemon, real or artificial camellias, aspic jeUy, beetroot, or any other devices; ornament the dish with parsley and cut lemon, and fill the empty spaces in the centre of the dish with clear aspic jelly cut small. If the turkey is to be stewed, bone it if practicable, fill it with forcemeat, and lard the breast evenly with bacon. Truss the bird firmly, and lay it in a stewpan just large enough to hold it, with two shallots, a small onion stuck with one clove, a bunch of parsley, half a blade of mace, a dozen peppcrcoms, and a clove of garlic if the flavour is liked. Cover the bird with white stock, and let it simmer very gently until it is half done; then add two glassfuls of sherry, and simmer again until done enough. Lift it upon a dish, and let it cool. Strain the gravy, and boil it again until it is so much reduced that it will jelly. Strain it once more, and, if necessary, clear with white of egg, according to the directions given fcr clarifjing jelly. Glaze the turkey with tliis, and serve on a napkin gamislicd with parslev, cut lemon, beetroot, &c. If the turkey is to be cut up into pieces convenient for serving, divide it while the bird