VEA VEA •( 1061 ) and a little "bacon-rind. Pour over these ingre- dients five pints of cold water. Bring the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, di-aw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents sim- luer gently. When sufficiently boiled strain it into a pan, and let it stand tUl the next day. Kemove the fat from the top, take up the jelly free from sediment, and boil vegetables, such as celery, artichokes, or turnips, in it till tender. Rub the vegetables through a hair sieve, and mix the pulp with the liquor. Stir into it half a spoonful of flour which has been mixed to a smooth paste with half a pint of cream or milk. Let the soup boil a few minutes ; add pepper and salt to taste, and serve. Time, five hoiirs to boil the stock. Veal, Potted.—Take about a pound of dressed veal free from skin, bone, fat, and gristle. Cut it into small pieces, and mince finely. Put it in a mortar, and whilst poimding keep adding gradually as much pepper, salt, and poimded mace as will season and flavour it pleasantly, together with about two ounces of butter broken into small pieces, and a spoonful or two of strong veal gravy made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the veal in water. Pound the preparation till it is a perfectly smooth paste, press it into small jars, and cover with a layer of clarified butter or dripping a quarter of an inch thick. The addition of a quarter of a pound of lean ham will greatly improve this dish. Let it stand twenty-foiir hours before using it, and store in a cool dry place. Veal, Potted, made with Fresh Meat.—Take a thick slice of lean undi-essed veal. Season with pounded mace or grated nutmeg and white pepper; put it into a pot- ting-pan that wiU just hold it, pour cold water over, cover closely, and bake gently till quite tender. Let it get cold, cut it smaU, and pound it in a mortar till smooth. If to be used at once, quickly moisten with a little of its own gravy. If to be kept a short time, add a little clarified butter only. Press it into jars, and cover with melted butter or suet a quarter of an inch thick. Store in a cool dry place. Time to bake the veal, three hours. Veal, Potted, with Tongue. —Take three-quarters of a poimd of cold dressed veal free from fat, skin, and gristle, and a quarter of a poimd of boiled tongue. Mince these ingre- dients finely, and poimd them to a perfectly smooth soft paste. Add very gradually whilst pounding five ounces of clarified butter, a small tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a spoonful of freshly-made mustard, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Add salt if required, but it is probable that the tongue will make the meat salt enough. Press the meat into small pot- ting-jars, cover with clarified butter or drip- ping, and store in a cool dry place. Veal Pudding.—Line a shallow pudding- basin with suet crust rolled to the thickness of half an inch, and leave the pastry an inch over the edge. Fill the dish with alternate layers of lean veal cut into neat pieces and ham thinly eliced, and sprinkle over each layer a little pepper and salt, and add pounded mace. Pour a quai-ter of a pint of veal gravy over the meat; lay a cover of pastry on the top, moisten the edge o£ the piece of pastry, draw it over the cover, and press the two closely together. Wring a pud- ding-cloth out of boiling water, flour it, and tie the basin loosely in it. Plunge it into fast- boiling water, and boil quickly until done enough. Take it up, let it stand a few minutes, turn it upon a dish, and serve very hot. A i)ound and a half of lean veal and half a pound of ham will make a moderate-sized pudding. Time to boil the pudding, two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Veal Pudding, Baked.—Take half a pound of cold roast veal carefully freed from skin, fat, and gristle, and finely minced. Mix thoroughly with it a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Pour half a pint of nicely-flavoured boiling gravy (made by stewing the trimmings of the veal in water) over two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Let this cool, then stir into it the minced veal, and add three well-beaten eggs. Whisk the mixture briskly for a minute or two, turn it into a well-buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. If liked, the crumbs may be soaked in cream instead of gravy. Time to bake the pudding, one hour. Probable cost, lOd., exclu- sive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal Quenelles (an entree). — Take a slice of lean veal from the leg, cut it in long thin slices, and scrape it with a knife till nothing but the fibre remains. Put it in a mortar, poimd for ten minutes, then pass it through a wire sieve upon a plate. Put back in a mortar six ounces of the veal thus prepared, also four otmces of panada, and three ounces of fresh butter. Pound these ingredients together till they are perfectly blended and form a smooth paste, and add gradually a little pepper, salt, and poxmded mace or grated nutmeg. The more the forcemeat is poimded the better it will be. Moisten gradually with two whole eggs, and pound it again. Poach a small ball in boiling water to see if the forcemeat is light, fine, and delicately flavoured. If it is not sufficiently firm, add the yolk only of another egg. The white wiU only serve to render the queneUes hollow and pufpy inside. A small quantity of white sauce will improve the force- meat, which should be kept in a cool place till wanted. Half an hour before the quenelles are to be served mould the forcemeat with a dessert- spoon (see Quenelles), and throw them into fast-boiling water slightly salted. When they are done enough take them up, put them on a dish, pour on them half a pint of nicely-fiavoured white sauce, and serve very hot. Mushrooms or truffles may be added to the sauce if liked. Time to poach the quenelles, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, veal. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for a small dish. Veal Quenelles (another way).—Take the fleshy part of veal, cut it into slices, and scrape it with a knife tiU you have got off all the meat without the sinews. About half a