EOT ( 778 ) EOXT Roti de Pauvre Homme.—Take a fine pullet or capon, the fattest procurable. Make a forcemeat, consisting of some finely-chopped Bausage-meat, raw veal and lean ham, cock's kidneys and combs, dried artichoke bottoms, mushrooms, truflies, some shred parsley, a little lemon thjTne and sweet basil, one anchovy washed, boned, and chopped fine—the whole chopped and well mixed together, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, with a good limip of fresh butter well incorporated with it. With this forcemeat fill the fowl by the vent, which sew up afterwards. Saturate with butter or olive-oil three or four sheets of writing-paper, and carefiiUy dredge the fowl with flour. Envelope the bird in the paper two layers thick, and cover the whole with another layer slightly buttered. Bury the bird thus prepared ia hot wood-ashes until it is cooked, or put it in a range oven, covered with a dish, which must exclude the air from beneath. Roti de Rognons de Veau.—Take kidneys which have been carefully roasted before the fire, chop them up with fat, and mix them with mushrooms cut smaU and fried in butter, and also with parsley, chives, bay-leaves, and thyme. Season with pepper and salt, and make the chopped kidneys into a paste of the proper consistence for forcemeat with the yolks of some raw eggs. Place thick layers of this on slices of fried bread from which the crust has been cut off. Sprinkle bread-crumbs over mixed with raw eggs. Place the slices of bread thus prepared on a dish put over some live cinders, aiui covered with a hot cover. Rotterdam Pudding, Rich.. — Beat four ounces and a half of fine flour to a smooth paste with half a pint of milk, and add four ounces and a half of sugar and a small pinch of salt. Blanch and pound four ounces and a half of sweet almonds, and whilst pounding drop in_ a Uttle cold water to keep them fiom oiling. Put four ounces and a half of butter into a saucepan with half a pint of milk. Let it remain until the butter is melted, then Btir in the paste of flour and mQk, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire until it boils and becomes thick, when it may be poured out to cool. Add the blanched and pounded almonds, then stir in first the well-beaten yolks of nine eggs, and afterwards the whites of the eggs whisked till firm. Beat the pudding briskly for a few minutes, pour it into a buttered basin which it will fiU, tie it in a cloth, and let it boil without ceasing untiL done enough. Turn it out carefully, and send wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, one hour and a half. I'robable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Roulette, Lobster.—Boil the lobsters, take out the meat, and chop it up; pound the shells with butter, set them on the fire, and add half a pint of water. When it has boiled a quarter of an hour, strain it, set the liquor again on the fire with two ounces of flour a little pounded mace, and a pinch of sugar; add bouillon to it tiU it becomes like thick pap- then stir m the chopped lobster and a little salt • when quite cold, make it into shapes, and pro- ceed as in the next recipe. Roulettes (a Danish recipej.—Take one ounce of grated onion, and brown it in an ounce and a half of butter, together ^vith. two ounces of flour; thin the mixture with half a pint of good stock. Let all boil together till it is smooth, then stir in half a pound of any roasted or boiled meat, finely chopped; add three boned anchovies minced, pounded pepper, salt, a little mace, the juice of half a lemon, and a glassful of white wine. When the preparation is quite cold, cut it into the form of sausages; roU these in Ijread-crumbs, then in egg beaten up, then again in bread and egg, and last of all in bread- crumbs ; fry in plenty of hot lard; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The above ingredients are enough for about sixteen roulettes. Roulettes, Fish.—Take perch, pike, or cod; boil and pick away aU bone and skin. To every half-pound of picked fish, take one ounce of flour; brown the flour in two ounces of butter, and thin it with milk till it becomes a thickish paste; add the fish to this paste along with a little pounded mace and salt; give it a boil up, set it aside till cold; then cut up, and proceed as directed in the previous recipe. Rout Biscuits.—Three pounds of flour, six ounces of butter, one pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar in powder, half a pint of milk, quarter of an ounce of A'olatUe salts finely powdered, and a little essence of lemon. Put the sugar and volatile salts in the milk, and let them stand for an hour or two, stirring them occasionally. Another method. One pound of sugar, a tea- cupful of milk or water, four ounces of butter, and half an ounce of volatile salts. Put the sugar and milk in a clean saucepan over the fire, let them boil up, and see if aU the sugar is dis- solved; if not, give it another boil or two, and set it aside to cool. It will be ready for usg when cold. Rub the butter in with the flour, make a bay, pour in the sugar, and make the whole into a dough of a inoderate stiffness. In the last method, the volatile salts should be pounded and mixed with the sugar, and sufficient flour should be used to make them of a proper con- sistence, keeping the dough in a loose state until it is nearly of the size required; then work it together; take a part of the dough, mould it in a square piece, and lay it over the impressions or figures carved in a block of wood, and press it in; keep your hand firm on it, that it may retain its place; have a thin knife which is made for this purpose, caUed a toy knife, rub it over a damp cloth, or pass it through flour; lay it flat on the block, and cut off the superfluous dough; take the biscuits out and place them on tins slightly buttered, so as not to touch each other; wash them over lightly with milk, and bake them in a very hot oven. This mixture is the best for persons who are not very expert in cutting them. When made according to the first recipe, the dough is apt to get tough if worked or moulded too much—an error which inexperienced persons are very liable to com- mit. Rout Cakes.—No. l. Beat half a pound of butter to cream, add half a pound of