QUI QUI ( 681 ) Quince Pudding —Take six or eight large ripe quinces. Tare, core, and qiiarter them, and put tliem into a saucepan, with as much' boiling water as will cover them, and let them simmer gently until soft. Press them through a sieve, sweeten the pulp, and flavour with lemon, cinnamon, or ginger. When it is cool, stir into it a pint of thick cream and the wcU-beaten yolks of three eggs. Line a pie-dish with good puff paste, pour in the prepared quince, and hake in a moderate oven. Sift white sugar thickly over the pudding before sending^it to table. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 2s, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Quince Snow (for Dessert).—Take some fine fresh quinces, and boil them till tender. Peel, cut them into slices, and mash them. Weigh out an equal quantity of sugar. To every pound of quinces, take the whites of three eggs beat up, and add them one after the other, tui-ning always the same way. After each addition, add also a spoonful of sugar. Continue beating till the whole is white and frothy : the longer it is beaten the better the snow will be. Spread it upon wafer-paper in any shapes you please, and let thr> snow dry in the sun. . ;. . QuinO© Tart.—Put one pound of sugar into a brass pan, pour over it a pint of water, and boil the sugar to a syrup. Slice a pound of quinces into it, and let all boil till it becomes a marmalade, stirring all the time. Next take six ounces of chopped almonds, two ounces of citron, the peel of two lemons cut very thin, or grated together with the juice of the lemons. Let all boil up; cover a baking-plate with wafer-paper, pour it over, and make it smooth. When the tart is baked, beat up the juice of two lemons Avith pounded sugar tUl it is white like ice: cover the tart with it, and let it dry in a cool oven. Quince Wine.—This is made hy mixing one quart of the juice of quinces witii one pound of sugar, and then suffering the liquid to ferment. By adding to the same quantity one pint of the best French brandy and four ounces of sugar, a celebrated liqueur is prepared on the Continent, which used to be greatly prized as a cordial and stomachic when taken in small quantities—say two or three spoonfuls at a time. Quince Wine (another way). — Take twelve quinces, cut them in slices, and boil for a quarter of an hour in a gallon of water. Then add two pounds of lump sugar; ferment, and add one gallon of lemon-wine, and one part of spirit. Quinces, Brandied.—Weigh some ripe quinces, and allow three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of fruit. Wash the quinces, put them, without paring them, into a preserving-pan, with as much water as will barely cover them, and let them simmer gently imtil they arc so soft that a pin can be easily stuck into them; drain them, and put them aside. Boil the sugar with as much water as will moisten it, and when bubljles form in it put in the quinces; let them boil up once, and put them aside until the next day. Pour the syrup from them, and put them into wide- mouthed bottles. UoU the syrup until it ia thick and clear, let it get .cold, and mix with it an equal quantity of brandy. I'our this liquor over the fi'uit, tie bladders over the mouths of the bottles, and store in a cool dry place. Quinces, Preserved. — Take some quinces, cut them into small pieces, and boil them in a quai-t of water, to which one spoon- ful of salt and the same quantity of honey has been added, until the water tastes strongly of quinces; then add a quart of white wine vinegar. Now lay the quinces it is wished to preserve at the bottom of an earthenware jar, and pour the above liquor over them. Put into jars, and cover closely. Quinces, Preserved (another way).— Soak the quinces before they are quite ripe in salt and water for twenty-four hours. Then take them out, dip them in a hot pickle of white wine \dnegar, salt, mace, cloves, and bay-leaves boiled together, and then preserve them in a stone jar, covered with vin^gari. Quinces, Preserved Whole. — Pare some ripe quinces, and scoop out the cores without opening the fruit. Put them into boiling water, and let them simmer gently until they are tender without being broken. Drain them, put thetn aside to cool, and boil the liquor with a pound of sugar for every pound of fruit; pour it over the quinces, and let them [ remain until the next day. Add to the syrup [ as much apple jelly as wdll cover the fruit, j Dissolve it with the syrUp, and put the quince's ; into it. Let them boil quickly until they look j clear, then put them into glasses. Put a small I portion of the liquor upon a plate, and if it will ! jelly when cold, it is ready for pouring over ■ the fruit; if not, it must be boiled until it will do 30. If no apple jelly is at hand, it may be I made as follows:'—Take some fine golden pippins or small crab apples, rub them with a soft cloth, and put them, without paring them, into a preserving-pan, with as much water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer gently until the fruit is quite soft. Strain the juice through a jelly-bag, two or three times if necessary, until it is quite clear, and boil it, with a pound of sugar for every pint of liquor, until it will jelly when a little is put upon a plate, it is then ready for use. If liked, quince juice may be used instead of apple jeUy to cover the fruit. To make this, cut up some small quinces without coring or paring them, and boil them in as much water as will cover them until the liquor is strongly flavoured with them. Strain the juice, and boil it,, with a pound of sugar to each pint, until it will jeUy. If when the quinces are being boiled in the jelly they seem likely to break, they must bo lifted one by one carefully out of the syrup, jnit into a jar, and the syrup poured over them, then boiled again the next day. Time, two or three days. Quinces, Ratafia of (u French recipe).— Grate ripe quinces till you come to the core, but be careful there are no pips. Let tlie mass remain for three days ip an earthen pan: squeeze it to extract all the j uice; measure it, and