( 984 ) TOM TON Tomatoos, Stowed Whole. —Take six or lu-ht npo tuiniitoos of lucdium size. Kemovo tho stalks, and arraii-^o tho fruit in a stowpan m a single layer. Pour over them as much Kood brown gravy as will roach to half tlioir height, stew thoui gently until they are done enough, and turn them over carefully once or twice that they may ho equally cooked. Thicken tho gravy with alittlo Hour and butter, season with popper and salt, and let it boil two or throo minutes after tho thickening is added. Servo the tomatoes very hot with tho sauce round them.. Time to stew, twenty to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tomatoes, Stuffed.—Choose half a dozen large tomatoos of uniform size. Slice off the stalks and the green parts round them, and scoop out the pips without breaking the sides of _ the fruit. Make a stuffing as follows :— Mince two ounces of fat bacon, and put it into a stewpan with half a dozen mushrooms chopped small, a handful of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, three or four shallots, all chopped, and a little pepper and salt. Stir this mixture over a gentle fire for five minutes, then bind it together with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Fill the tomatoes with this stuffing, set them side by side in a saute-pan, and pour in salad oil to the height of a quarter of an inch. Sprinkle bread-raspings lightly over the toma- toes, and place them on a brisk fire, holding a red-hot shovel over them, or bake them in a quick oven. Serve on a hot dish, and pour some good brown sauce round them. Time to fry the tomatoes, from ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Tomatoes, Stuffed (another way).— Take six or eight ripe red tomatoes of equal size. Cut off the tops and the green parts round them, and scoop out the insides. Press the pulp through a sieve, and mix with it a little salt and cayenne, two ounces of butter broken into little pieces, and two heaped table- spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Half a dozen finely-minced stewed mushrooms may be added or not. Fill the tomatoes with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven, or fry them in oil until done enough. Before serving, brown them by holding a salamander or hot iron over them for a minute. Send brown gravy to table in the dish with them. Any good forcemeat that is liked may be used to stuff tomatoes. Tho remains of game or poultry minced finely, mixed with herbs and bread-crumbs, seasoned, and bound together with yolk of egg wiU answer excellently. Time to bake the tomatoes, ten to twelve minutes; to fry them, eight minutes. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tongue.—In choosing a tongue, take one which is plump and smooth-skinned, as that is a sign that it is young and tender; and also endeavour to ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, so as to know whether or not it will require long soaking before being dressed. If very hard and dry, it wiU bo necessary to soak it at least twelve hours in plenty of water; if fresh from tho pickle, two or three hours' soaking will bo sufficient. Horse tongues are frecpicntly sold as ox tonguc.-s to inexperienced purclia.sers. 'J'lio former nuiy bo known by a spoon-like cxi)an8ion at the end. Tongue and Chicken with Cauli- flowers {hvc (Jliicken and Tongue), Tongue, Baked.—Take a tongue fresh from tlie ])i(-kl.', was^li and soak it, and put it in a dish just large enough for it. Put little pieces of butter here and there upon it, cover with a. common crust of Hour and water, and bake in a moderate oven until it is quite tender, llemove the furred coating or skin, and fasten the tongue down to a piece of board by stick- ing one or two strong skewers through the root and one through the tip so as to hold tho tongue in an erect and elegant form until it is quite cold. If to be eaten cold, glaze it, trim the root, put a paper frilling round it to hide its unsightlincss, and serve garnished with pars- ley. If to be eaten hot, serve the tongue on a hot dish with brussels sprouts, cauliflower, or other vegetables round it. Time to bake, three or four hours, according to size. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for a luncheon, supper, or breakfast dish. Tongue, Beef.—If dried, a salted tongue must be soaked for some hours before it is dressed. It must then be put into cold water and gently brought to the boiling point; then, after the surface of the water has been cleared from scum, the saucepan must be removed from the fire only so far as to reduce the boiling to a gentle simmering. If dried, a tongue will require quite four hours' boiling; if simply salted, only three hours. "WTiilst hot, the outer skin of the tongue must be peeled off, and it may be sent to table either glazed or plain. The usual accompaniment to boiled tongue is boiled turnips. Tongue, Beef, with Sauce Hachce. —Take a fresh tongue ; let it disgorge, blanch it to remove any tripey taste it may retain ; then stew it in a good braize. A\Tien done enough, flay it, cut it in two, spread it open, and cover it over thickly -with sauce hachee. Tongue, Boiled.—If the tongue is dried, soak it for twelve hours; if taken fresh from the pickle, an hour or two will be sufficient. Put the tongue into cold water, and let it come slowlj' to the boil. Remove the scum care- fully, and simmer the tongue gently until done enough. Its flavour will be improved if two or three large carrots and a large bunch of savoury herbs be added to the liquor after the scum is removed. When the tongue is quite tender, so that it can be easily probed -with a small skewer, and so that the skin can bo easily peeled off, take it up, remove the skin, and if it is to be eaten cold pass a large carving fork through the root end, and by means of this fasten it on a board. Pass another and smaller fork through the tip, and d:-aw the tongue straight before fixing it in the board. I^et it remain untouched until quite cold, trim neatly, glaze it, and then wrap a nicely-cut frill of tissue paper round the root, which is a littlo