VEA ( 1053 ) Take out tlie bone, and till the cavity with good veal forcemeat. If liked, this may bo omitted. Bind tif-fhtly with string, then put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and turn it about till it is lightly and equally coloured all over. Liiy some slices of bacon over it, and add the bones and trimmings of the veal, a large carrot, an onion sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a little stilt. Pour over all a quart of stock, and simmer the veal as gently as possible, basting frequently with the lic{uor till it is tender. Take it up, and put it in the oven to keep hot. Strain the gravy, skim the fat from the surface, and boil quickly tiU it is considerably reduced. Put it on a dish, glaze with part of the gravy, and stir into the rest an anchovy, a spoonful of capers, and a glassful of light wine. Dressed sorrel, spinach, or eudi\'e may be served on a separate dish. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. Veal, Loin of, Braised (superlative). —Take the best end of a loin of veal weighing about eight pounds, and trim it square. Cut the flap slightly, and in the incision thus made just over the ends of the bones place some nice veal forcemeat. Fasten securely with skewers und string. Cover the bottom of a braising- pan with sliced vegetables, and lay the veal on this; poirr in as much stock or water as will just reach the surface of the veal. Lay a roimd of oiled paper on the top, if possible put some live embers in the lid of the pan, and braise the meat over a gentle fire till it is quite tender. Baste frequently with its liquor. When done enough, take it up, drain it, and put it in the oven to keep hot. Strain the gravy, skim the fat from it, and boil quickly till it is much reduced and begins to thicken, then glaze the meat vdth. it. Place the meat on a dish, and gai-nish with dressed vegetables, ai'ranging these so that the colours will contrast one with another. Cauliflowers, carrots, turnips, mush- rooms, tomatoes, lettuces, asparagus, sorrel, en- dive, and spinach may all be served with braised loin of veal and mushi-ooms. Tomato, ' white Italian, or brown sauce may accom- j pany it. Time to braise the veal, three hours. Probable cost, loin of veal, lid. per pound. j Veal, Loin of. Chump End, Koasted. ; —^lake an incision in the skin round the thick pai-t of the joint with a sharp knife, and in this put some good veal forcemeat. Grease a sheet of white paper, wrap it round the joint, then put it down before a clear fire, and rather close to it. At the end of a quarter of an hour withdraw it to a distance, and let it roast very gently till done enough. Baste Hberally. Half an hour before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge a little flour upon it, and sprinkle over it n little salt and the strained juice of a lemon. Let the veal brown brightly. Mix a slice of butter verj- smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Pour upon this a cupful of boiliug water, add a little salt, and boil the sauce for a few minutes. Pour the fat out of the dripping- tin, leaving the brown gravy untouched. Stir the melted butter into this, strain it into the Sfiucopan, and again let it boil. Put the veal Cii ul diah the broad side downwards, i'oui' part of the gravy over it; put the rest in a tureen, and serve immediately. Send a cut lemon to table on a plate, and let boiled tongue, liam, bacon, or pickled pork accompany the veal Time to roast the veal, twentj'-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Veal, Loin of—Kidney End — Roasted.—Place a piece of buttered jjaper round the lean part of the loin, being careful to cover the kidney entirely with its fat. Hang the veal close to a good fire. At the end of twenty minutes draw it back a little, and roast gently, basting frequently imtil done enough. Half an hour before it is taken up remove the j)aper, dredge a little flour upon the veal, and sprinkle over it the strained juice of a lemon and a little salt. Continue to baste until it is brightly browned. Make a Kttle brovra sauce according to the instructions given for roasting the chump end of a loin of veal. Toast a round of bread on both sides. Put it on a h6t dish, and place the veal upon it, with the kidney resting on the toast. Pour a little of the gi'a\-y over the meat, serve the rest in a tureen, and send a cut lemon to table on a plate. Bacon, ham, or tongue should be served with this dish. Time to roast the veal, twenty-eight minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. per pound. Veal, Loin of, Roast.—It is by no means a general practice zo stuif a loin of veal, but it is one which can be highly recommended, as it greatly improves the joint. Make an incision in the flap or skirt of the loin, and into the cavity thus made, just over the ends of the bones, put some good veal forcemeat. Roll in the flap to cover the kidney-fat, and skewer it down, or bind with string. Wrap the loin in weU- greased sheets of paper, and put it down at a moderate distance before a clear fire. Baste Liberally. Half an hour before it is done enough take away the paper, and let the veal brown. If the paper is not put on, the joint must be well dredged with flour soon after it is put to the fire. When done enough, put the veal on a hot dish, and pom- either clear brown gravy or good brown sauce over it. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon and fried forcemeat balls. Ham, tongue, bacon, or pickled pork should be served with it. In some places egg sauce and brown gravy are served with roast veal. If the loin is a very large one, the kidney should be skewered back for a while to ensure its bcino- sufliciently dressed. Care should be taken thai; the joint is hung before the fire in such a way that both ends will be equally done. Time, a large loin of veal, about three hom-s. Pro- bable cost, lid. per pound. Veal, Loin of. Steamed (a German recipe).—Bone a loin of veal, remove the kid- neys, and trim away the superfluous fat. Spread a layer of veal forcemeat over the inner side of the veal, then roll it, and bind with twme to keep it in shape. Dissolve a slice of butter m a saucepan, put in the veal, and turn It about over the fire till it is equaLy and hghtly browned all over. Put with it a sUced carrot, a small onion, two bay-leaves, and a httlo pepper and mlt. Pour a tea-cupful of stock over it, cover the saucepan closely, and let