PIG PIG ( 562 ) cream. If it appears too thick, a little more water must be added—some Hours require less liquid than others. Just before the batter is used, stir into it the whitus of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Time, lialf an houi- to steam pigeons; ton or twelve minutes to fry them. I'ro- bablo cost, '2s. 2d. SuUicient for two persons. Pigeons, Galantine of {see Galantine of Pigeons). Pigeons in a Mould of Jelly.—lloast two plump young pigeons. Prepare them by cutting off the ends of the toes, cleaning and singeing the heads, sprinkling salt and pepper in the inside, and trussing the birds with the heads tied in their natural position, by means of a piece of thread fastened round the neck, the feet being bent under the body as if the birds were sitting. Bake the birds, and be careful that they are equally browned all over. As soon as they are done enough, cover them to preserve their colour. Take a quart of the' liquid in which a knuckle of veal or a couple of calf's feet have been boiled, and which forms a strong jelly when cold. Take it up, free from fat and sediment, and boil it with a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, three or four cloves, and a little salt, and when the liquid is nicely flavoured let it cool, and clear it by boiling with it the beaten whites and crushed shells of two eggs— mixed with a cupful of cold water—and strain- ing it through a jelly-bag. Pour a little of this jeUy, about an inch and a half deep, into the mould intended for the pigeons. When it is set without being quite hard, put the birds side by side into it, with the heads and backs downwards, and with a sprig of myrtle in the bill of each. Fill up the mould with the rest of the jeUy, which should cover the feet at least an inch and a half, and leave it in a cool place until it is quite hard. Pigeons in a mould of jeUy make a very pretty supper dish, where a large number and variety of dishes are required. They should be prepared fully twenty-foiu- hours before they are wanted, and the mould should be kept on ice, if possible. The mould must be turned out before serving. When the veal jelly is not at hand, a little may be easily prepared as follows:—Soak an ounce of gelatine in cold water for an hour, then strain it. Warm a pint and a half of nicely-flavoured stock in a stcwpan with a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a glass of sherry. Add the gelatine, and stir until it is dissolved, then draw the jelly from the fire to cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs with a cupful of cold water; mi.x this and the crushed sliclls of the eggs with the liquid. Let it boil ten minutes, strain through a jelly-bag, and the jelly will be fit for use. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to bake the pigeons. Probable cost, 4s. Sufl&cient for a two-(luart mould. Pigeons, Jugged.—Pluck, singe, and draw tliree or four freshly-killed young pigeons. Stuff them, with a forcemeat made as follows : —Mince the livers finely, and mix with them an equal weight of fincly-shrcd suet and of finely-grated bread-crumbs, the peel of a quarter of a lemon chopped small, the bruised yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a tablo-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little salt, pepper, and gratc-d nutiiK^g. Mix tlie ingredients thoiouglily, and moisten them with an ounce of fresh butler, and a weU- beaten egg. Fill the crops of the pigeons with this mixture, and tie or sew the vents securely. Brown the birds in a stewpan over the fire with a little hot fat; dredge a little pepper and salt over them, and put them into an earthen jar, with a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, half a dozen peppercorns, half a head of celery cut into small pieces, three cloves, a small nutmeg grated, a glass of claret, and half a pint of stock or water. Cover the jar either with a closely-fitting lid or with three or four folds of paper tied over it. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept boiling until the pigeons are dene, being careful only that the water is not so high that it can enter the jar. When the pigeons are done enough, strain the gravy into a saucepan, stir a spoonful of brown tliickeiiing into it, and let it boil a few minutes. Serve the pigeons on a hot dish, with the gravy poured over and around them, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. This dish may be increased in quantity' by the addition of a poimd of rump steak. This should be cut into very thin sUces, over which a Uttle of the forcemeat may be spread evenly and thinly. The sHces should then be rolled up, tied with a little thread to preserve their form, and cooked ■with the pigeons. Time to boil the pigeons, one and a half hours. Probable cost, exclusive of the steak and wine, 3s. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pigeons, Pate Chaud of,—Make some stiff paste as follows :—Boil four ounces of lard in half a pint of water. Stir this while hot with a pound of flour to which a little salt has been added, and work the whole intoa stiff, smooth paste. Shape two-thirds of it according to the directions given for shaping raised pies, fill it with bran or flour, roll out the untouched piece of paste, place it on the top as a lid, ornament in any Avay that may be preferred, brush over with beiiten egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When the paste is done enough, cut out the Hd, remove the bran carefully, and fill the pie with stewed pigeons. Put with them stewed mushrooins, or any other garnish, and pour a little poivrade sauce over the whole. Serve as hot as possible. The shell of this pie may be made and baked the day before it is wanted, and put into the oven to heat when the pigeons are ready for serving. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeon Pie (a I'Anglaise).—Take two or more freshly-killed young pigeons. Divide in two lengthwise, cut off their feet at the first joint, and turn their legs inside close to the pinions. Put inside each half bird a little forcemeat made of the Uvers finely minced, with a little parsley, pepper, salt, and butter. Moisten the edges of a pie-dish with a little stock or water, and line them with strips of pastry a quarter of an inch thick. Place at the bottom of th<? dish one pound of rump steak cut into neat pieces, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Lay the pigeons