RAB RAB ( 689 ) of a pint of water and a pinch of s:Jt into fivo ounces of flour. Jlix two table-spoonfuls of oil with the yolks of two eggs, add the mixture to the paste, and beat all together till the batter is quite smooth. It ought to be a little thicker than cream; if necessary a little water may be added to it, but this will depend upon the quality of the flour. A few minutes before the batter is to be used add to it the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. A quarter of an hour before the rabbit is wanted dip each piece into the batter, and fry in hot fat till it is crisp and brightly browned. Serve the pieces on a hot dish, and send tomato, piquant, or maitre d'hotel sauce to table in a turaen. If preferred, the marinaded rabbit can be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, instead of batter, before being fried. Time to fiy, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Marinaded and Roasted (a German recipe).—Skin, empty, and wash a plumj) young rabbit, and lay it in a deep dish with a glassful of vinegar, a glassful of port, a sliced onion, twenty peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and three pounded cloves. Let the rabbit lie in this marinade for an hour or two, and tui-n and baste it two or three times. Fill it with good veal forcemeat, truss firmly, and baste with the marinade without Aviping it at the last moment before putting it to the fire. Put it down to a clear fire, and baste liberally. When done enough lay it on a hot dish, take out the skewers, squeeze over it the juice of half a lemon, serve very hot, and send brown gravy and red currant jelly to table with it. Time to roast, three-quarters of an hour to one hour; less time if small. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Matelote of (a French recipe). —Take a rabbit, cut it up, and fry it in a little butter. Make a roux, which should be thinned with weak soup and a glassful of white wine. "When the liquid boils, put in the pieces of rabbit, together with a little bacon cut into dice, a bunch of mixed herbs, and some mush- rooms. When about done enough, brown some button onions in butter, moistening with the sauce from the rabbit. Place the rabbit in the centre of the dish, arrange the onions and mush- rooms round it, strain the sauce over, and serve. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit, Minced.—Take a fat young rabbit, skin, empty, and wash it, and boil it till tender. Lift the flesh from the bones, mince it finely, and season with pepper, salt, gi-ated nutmeg, grated peel, and a little lemon- juice. Put it into a saucepan, and stir in with it six ounces of fresh butter and four well-beaten eggs, and continue to stir for a quarter of an hour. Turn it on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it, garnish with toasted sippets, and serve very hot. Time to boil the rabbits, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound'. Sufficient for four or five persona. Rabbit, Minced (another way).—Take the meat from the remains of a colu-dressed rabbit, free it from skin and sinew, mince finely, and put it aside. Break the bones into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with half a pound of veal cut into small squtircs, a slice of lean ham, a largo spoonful of bacon-fat or lard, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Move them about over the fire for a minute or two, dredge flour thickly over them, and pour upon them as much milk as will cover them. Let them simmer gently for an hour, stirring them at intervals. Strain the liquor, boil it till it is quite thick, and keep stirring to prevent it burning. Put the minced meat into the sauce, let it get quite liot without boiling, and serve immediately. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, lOd., ex- clusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Minced (M. Tide's recipe).— This is a djsh to be made of the remains of a former dinner. Take the fillets of roasted rabbits, pare the sinews; then make a mince, but hold your knife on a slope, that the thin slices may curl like shavings; put the mince into some reduced veloute or bechamel mixed with some glaze of game; do not forget to pour into the mince a little thick cream to give it a white colour and make it more mellow. You may put the mince either in a bordure, a vol-au- vent, a casserole with rice, a turban, a grenade, a gratin, petits pates, petites casserolettes au ris (little casseroles vsdth rice), &c. &c. Rabbit, Mushroom Sauce for.—Take a pint of young mushrooms, pick, rub, and wash them, and sprinkle them with salt to take off the skin. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt, a blade of mace, a little nutmeg, a pint of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour: boil them up, and stir till done, then pour the sauce into the dish with the rabbits. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones, done white, with a little mushroom pow- der with the cream. Rabbit Pate.—Take two young rabbits, bone them, and cut them in pieces. Take half a pound of fresh pork and half a pound of veal fat; chop these ingredients small, and mix with them a laurel-leaf, a shallot, thyme, and some parsley, all finely shred, and add pe^Dper, salt, and a little powdered cloves. Lay the rabbits and minced meat in a pie-dish Hne'd with slices of fat bacon, pour a wine-glassful of brandy over the whole, and cover the top with slices of bacon. Place the pate in a moderate oven, and let it re- main there for a couple of hours. When done enough, serve the pate in a flat dish garnished round the edges with slices of beet-root sprinkled with vinegar, or i^ickled capsicums can be used instead, if liked. Rabbit Pat^ (a laProven(,'ale).—Take two rabbits, cut them into joints without boning them, and lay them in a saucepan with two carrots, two onions, a clova of garlic, a bunch of herbs, and about a pound of the beUy of pickled pork. Boil in as little water as pos- sible for half an hour, then take the meat out, drain it, place the pork at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish, and upon it lay the pieces of rabbit. Poor a glassful of white wine