PER ( 638 ) PEB the screw is slowly worked down by a lever; and with tlic pressure, a thick brown juice exudes from the hairs, leaving within them only a dry residue, which, in years when apples are scarce, is sonictimes mixed with water, l>:round again, and the liquid pressed out as before. This latter product is called ' water cider,' a thin unpalatable liquor, which is given to the labourers early in the year. " The cider is received by a channel in the frame of the press upon which the hairs stand, emptying into a flat tub called a ' trin.' From the trin it is poured with buckets or ' racking cans' into aisks, placed either out of doors or in sheds where there is a free current of air. In about three or four days, more or less ac- cording to the heat of the weather, the liquor usually will ferment; the thick heavier parts will subside as a sediment at the bottom of the cask, and the lighter become bright clear cider. This should then be ' racked,' or drawn off, into another cask, and the sediment be put to strain through linen bags, and what oozes from them should be restored. "It is during the fermentation that the management of cider is least understood, and there is the greatest hazard of injury. It is necessary also to know what fruit will by itself make good cider, which kinds should be ground together, and what proportions should be mixed. But it is in the preservation of the strength and flavour after the cider is ground that the principal difficulty consists : slight fermentation will leave the liquid thick and unpalatable; rapid fermentation will impair both its strength and durability; e^ccessive fermentation will make it sour, harsh, and thin. Other things being equal, that cider wiU probably be the best in which the vinous fermentation has proceeded slowly, and has not been confounded with the acetous. The remedies used in cases of cider not clearing, are either yeast, or the addition of cider in a state of fermentation, isinglass, eggs, OT a quart of fresh blood stirred up with the liquor, in which last case it is to be racked on the following day : these do not always prove effectual. But the common evils are excess or rapidity of fermentation; and if a better quaUty than farm-house or ' family drink' is sought, cider requires so much care to prevent its being spoiled, that the best and most careful makers frequently have it looked at during each night for some weeks after it is made; and if the bubbling hissing noise, the sign of fermenta- tion, becomes frequent or too loud, the liquor is immediately racked off .into another cask. This check often requires to be repeated several times, but although at each racking some portion of the strength will be lost, the body flavour and sweetness will chiefly be retained. It is not the habit of the farmer to add sugar, treacle, brandy, or any colouring matter to the liquor; it is only adulterated in the hands of cider dealers and publicans who wiU not lose a hogshead, and if one has turned sour or has been otherwise damaged, it must be 'doctored' in order to render it marketable." At the beginning of January the cider is moved into cellars. In March the liquor is bunged down; it may be used soon afterwards, though it will greatly improve by keeping. If I bottled cider is required, it should be bottled and wired in the Septeml>er or October after it , is made. Home persons prefer an earlier timij the (jnd of April or the beginning of May ; a : greater degree of efterveacence is thus attained, but a considerable loss accrues from the number of bottles that will be burst. The quantity of cider consumed by workmen is very large. The usual allowance given by masters in Herefordshire is two or three quarts a day; and in harvest-time many labourers drink in a day ten or twelve quails of a liquor that in a stranger's mouth would be mistaken for vinegar. The men do not like sweet cider. Cider of good quality is manufactured in Ireland, in the counties of Waterfoid and Cork; in Normandy, whence we liave many of our best apples ; in Belgium; and in Geimany, the product of the last-named country being of inferior quaUty. It is also made in abundance, and of excellent quality, in many parts of the United States. Good cider contains about six per cent, of proof spirit. It is sometimes adulterated with lead, with a view to concealing tartness. This is a highly injurious practice, lead being a dangerous poison. Common cider is also exten- sively employed for the manufacture of spurious wine. Notwithstanding the extensive scale on which cider is generally manufactured in the cider counties, it is by no means necessarj'; and it is quite possible to make it in small quantities of as excellent a quahty as is procurable in any other manner. The superabundant apples of a moderately large garden may be economically converted to this use, and without a great deal of trouble. The machinery necessary for making cider on this domestic scale is simple, and easily obtainable at a small expense. The following answers the purpose as weU as more costly apparatus:— A tub is to be procured, made of strong staves; the bottom is to be much thicker than usual, and the peripheral edge of it must be at least half an inch thick where it is let into the chimb. The iron hoops must be strong, especially the two lower ones on the chimb. This tub is to answer the purposes of a crushing trough; it must sustain the strokes of a heavy pounder, and hence the necessity of its being made as strong as possible. The diameter of the bottom of the tub should be only eighteen inches ; its height about the same. The next article is the pounder. This is to be made of any hard wood. Its shape may be easily conceived by imagining a cone, about the size of an ordinary loaf of sugar, with a handle, proceeding from its apex, of about four feet in length. The base of the cone should be per- fectly flat. The press which will be foimd most con- venient, is the common square clothes' press. It consists of a rectangular horizontal board, three feet in length, a foot and a half in breadth, and at least four inches in thickness. At each end of this, and mid-way in the breadth, is erected a perpendicular square pillar, the trans- verse section of which is about four inches square; the height of each pillar is three feet.