BAS HAS ( 712 ) lire until it bogins to thickon. Sorvo im- mediiitoly. Or, mix half a pint of niHpborrv juico with half a pint of cromn. AVhip tlu- -mxturo till it is light and frothy, and servo at once. Or, put half a pint of raspberries into an earthen jar with three table-spoonfuls 3t cold water. Sot the jar in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling till the juico flows freely. Strain it, and mix it smoothly with a table-spoonful of arrowroot which has boon made into a paste with a little cold water. Add a glassful of light wine and a little sugar, and stir the mixture over the fire till it is c.i the point of boiling. Serve immediately. When fresh fruit cannot be obtained for these sauces, raspberry jam boiled and strained may be used instead. Raspberry Sauce (a Danish recipe.)— Take some ra.spberrics, put them in a cloth, and wring them to express the juice; add to the juice sugar, wine, and a little water; set the- mixture on the fire; when it boils add a spoonful of potiito-flcur mixed with cold water, and give it one boil up. Raspberry Sponge.—Soak three-quar- ters of an ounce of gelatine in a little cold water for an hour. Dissolve it, and mix with it a quarter of a pint of raspberry juico made either from jam or from the fresh i'ruit. Add half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the strained juice of a lemon, and as much sugar as is agreeable to the palate. Whisk the mixture in one direction until it thickens and looks like sponge, pour it into a damp mould, and turn it cut when it is stiff. Time, half an hour or more to whisk the sponge. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for a quart mould. Raspberry Syrup,— Pick some ripe juicy raspberries, bruise them thoroughly, and let them stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Strain off the juice, and boil it with naif-a pound of loaf sugar to each pint of juice. Remove the scum as it rises, and boil the syrup gently for half an hour. Let it cool, and pour it into small dry bottles. Cork these securely with perfectly sound corks, and store for use. Time, half an hour from the time the syrup boils. Probable cost of raspberries, 2d. to 6d. per pint. Raspberry Tart.—Fill a pie-dish with picked raspberries, or, if preferred, with equal portions of raspberries and red currants. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, strew sugar over the top, and cover the fruit with pastrj' ■.•oiled out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Ornament the edges, and bake the tart till the pastry is done enough. When cold sift powdered sugar over the top, and servo. Raspberry tart is not very often served hot. When a superior tart is required, bake tlie tart till the pa.stry is done enough. Take it out of the oven, gently lift up the cover, and pour over the fruit a rich custard made with half a pint of cream which has been beaten up with the yolks of two eggs. Lay the cover again on the dish, and return it to the oven for five minutes. Sift powdered sugar over the top, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, three- quarters of an hour for a moderate-sized tart. Raspberry Vinegar.—liaspberry vine gar diluted with water makes a most refresliing dnnk in hot weather and in cases of fever or cold. The proportions must be regulated taste. Geiu'ially it will be found thitt a des- 8(;rt-8i)OonfuI is sufficient for u tumbler full of water. Raspberry Vinegar, To Make.-Put two quarts of good wlnte-wine vinegar into a large stone jar with two quarts of picked rasp- bernes. Tie a piece of muslin over the top, and let it stand for a week, stirring every day. Strain the lupior through a fine sieve, and with every pmt i)ut one pound of loaf sugar. Stir thes.' ingredients together, and when the sugar is dis- solved cover the jar. Put it into a saucepan of boihng water, and let it boil gently for an hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises. When cold cork and bottle the vinegar, and seal the corks. Some cooks put a glassful of brandy with each pint of raspberry vinegar. A glazed jar must be avoided, as it will make the vinegar unwholesome. Time, eight days. Raspberry Vinegar (another way).- Take a quantity of very ripe raspberries, and fill a wide-mouthed bottle or stone jar with as many of them as will go in without pressing them; take as much good vinegar as will en- tirely cover them, and pour it over. Let the raspberries infuse for eight days, at the end of which time pour the whole on a tamis, and press the fruit so as to extract all the juice; when the vinegar is perfectly clear and impreg- nated with the fragrance of the fruit, weigh it, and for every pound of liquor take a pound and three-quarters of good lump sugar broken into large pieces; put it into an earthen jar, and pour the vinegar over it, then cork it well, and put it into the bain marie over a very moderate fire; as soon as the sugar is dissolved set it aside, and when the syrup is almost cold bottle it. Raspberry Vinegar (another way).— Fill a jar with raspberries ; pour vinegar over them tiU the jar is full. Let it stand nine days, stirring it every day. Strain it ofi', and to every pint of juice add three-quarters of a pound of white sugar. Boil it as long as any scum rises, and bottle off for use. Raspberry Vinegar, Superior.—Put one pound of picked raspberries into a stone jar or large glass bottle, and pom* over them a quart of white-wine vinegar. Cover them closely, and let them infuse for four days. Drain off the liquor, and pour it over a pound of fresh raspberries; let these infuse for four days, and then repeat the process a third time. When the liquor is poured off, the fruit should each time be laid in a sieve covered with muslin, and the juice should be allowed to drop from it without pressure for-several hours. A considerable quantity maj' thus be preserved. Put the vinegar into an enamelled pan, or, failing this, into a delicately clean bra.ss ])an, and with it a pound of roughly-powdered sugar to each pint of vinegar. Let it boil gently for five minutes, and remove the scum till it ceases to rise. Leave the vinegar until the next day, put it into bottles, and cork lightly. At the end of five days cork closely, and seal the