YEN ( 1085 ) VEN in a turocn; or, -without melting it, turn it upon a glass dish, and serve cold. _ No. 2. Simmer the triimiiings of the venison for half an hour in as much mutton gravy or ■water as will bai-ely cover them. Strain and skim the liquor, and put it into a saucepan ■with a large table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, a table-spoonful of po-wdered -white sugar, and a largo wine-glassful of port or claret. Let the sauce simmer gently till it is quite hot, and then servo. No. 3. Bruise an inch of stick cinnamon, and put it, -with the rind of half a lemon, into a saucepan. Add a quarter of a pint of red-cun-ant jeUy and a table-spoonful of port. Boil the sauce for five minutes, and serve. No. 4 (old-fasliioned sauce). Clean two ounces of cuiTants, and boil them for five minutes in half a pint of water. Add a glassful of port, half a tea-cupful of finely-grated bread- crumbs, an ounce of butter, and four cloves. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire for ten minutes, remove the cloves, and serve. Currants washed and diied are sometimes served instead of this sauce. No. 5. Put two ounces of pow- dered white sugar into a stone jar -with a quarter of a pint of white -wine -vinegar. Heat the sauce till the sugar is dissolved, and serve. A glassful of claret and a pinch of cayenne may be added to this sauce if liked. No. 6. Put a quarter of a pint of strong unflavoured mutton gra-vy into a saucepan, and add a large glassful of claret, and a small glassful of raspberry •vinegar. Simmer the sauce till it is hot, and eerve. Venison, Shallot for (see Shallot for Venison). Venison, Shoulder of. Marinaded. —Make a marinade by mixing together a pint of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of black pepper. Eemove the bones from a shoulder of venison, flatten it on a table, and lay it, with the neck (from which half a pound of the meat has been cut), in the marinade. Let it lie for twelve hours. Jlince the meat which was cut off with. four ounces of fat bacon, and add a pinch of cayenne and a little grated nutmeg. Spread this forcemeat on the inside of the shoulder, roU and bind it tightly, and roast in the usual way. Serve with strong unflavoured gravy, and sweet or piquant sauce. Time to roast the joint, two hom-s to two hours and a half, according to size. Probable cost of venison, very imcertain. Venison, Shoulder of. Boast.—Be careful that the shoulder of venison is not sepa- rated from the neck till the buck is cold and stiff, otherwise the appearance of both joints will be spoilt. Let the shoulder hang in a cool airj' situation as long as it can be kept untainted. Examine twice a day, and -wipe away any moisture that may appear. Cover all over with thin slices of mutton fat. It is important that this should be done, because the meat has none of its o^vn. Wrap it in greased paper, then in a stiff flour and water paste, and afterwards in greased paper again. Hang it before a sound clear fire, roast, and serve like a haunch, with the same accompaniments. The flour and water paste is sometimes omitted; the slices of mutton fat should never be. Time to roast a shoulder of venison, about an hour and three-quarters. Probable cost of venison, very uncei'tain. Venison, Shoulder of. Stewed.— Bone the shoulder, and flatten it on a table. Season with a savoury powder made of two table-spoonfuls of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne, half a tea-spoonful of pounded mace, and a tea-spoonful of powdered white sugar. Lay over the joint thin slices of the fat of a loin of mutton, roU tightly, and bind secui-ely -svith tape. Place it in a stewpan as nearly as possible of its o-wn size, pour over it as much stock as -will cover it, let it boil, skim it, and simmer gently till tender. Turn it over when half done. Take it up, remove the tape, and lay the venison on a dish. Strain the gravy, thicken with brown thickening, season -with salt and cayenne, add a glassful of wine, and serve -with the meat. Time to stew the venison, thi'ee to four hours, accord- ing to size. Probable cost, very uncertaio. Venison, Shoulder of, Stewed (an- other way).—Let the meat hang as long as it -will keep sweet. Take out the bone, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin; lay some slices of mutton fat that have been soaked a few hours in a little red port; spriokle a little pepper and allspice over it in fine powder; roU it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stewpan that -will just hold it -with some mutton or beef gravy, or broth, a quarter of a pint of port -wine, some pepper and allspice. Cover close, and simmer as slowly as you can for three or four hom-s. When quite tender, take off the tape, set the meat on a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with currant jeUy. Venison Soup.—Cut two pounds of the breast of venison into small pieces, and place these, -with a poimd of the knuckle of veal and a couple of ounces of lean ham, in a ste-wpan. Pour over them three quarts of cold water, and add a large onion cut small, half a blade of mace, a few sticks of celery, and a little salt and whole pepper. Let it stew till the goodness is entirely drawn out of the venison. Eub it through a sieve, thicken with bro-wn thicken- ing, add a large glassful of port or madeira, boil a quarter of an hour longer, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the soup, about three hours and a half. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison Soup (another way).—Take the broken-up bones, trinmaings, and remains of various kinds of game; put them into a stewpan, pour over them three quarts of stock made from beef or mutton bones, and stew gently for two hours. Strain the soup, pick the meat from the bones, let it get cold, and pound till smooth with a little butter. Stir it into the strained stock, and put it back into the stew- pan -with a carrot, an onion, a few sticks of celery, a blade of mace pounded, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer the soup half an hour, and skim carefully. Cut some fresh venison into neat slices, flour these, and bro-wn them in the frj-ing-pan. Put them into the soup, and stew them till tcndo:- but not overdone. Take out the vegetables, add a glassful of port and