WIN ( 1137 ) WIN Wine, Strawberry.—Bruise and press out the juieo. Pour on the marc seven gallons of water; infuse for twelve hours, and press out the liquor; add this liquor to the juice, and mix them with six gallons of cider. Dissolve in the mixture sixteen pounds of raw sugar and three ounces of powdered red tartar, and tlien set it to ferment in the usual manner. Pare the rinds of two lemons and two oranges, and, together with the juice, throw them into the fermenting-tub, and take out the rinds when the fermentation is over. Three gallons of brandj' may be added. Wine Test, Dr. Paris's. — " Expose equal parts of sulphur and powdered oyster- shells to a white heat for fifteen minutes, and when cold add an equal quantity of cream of tartar. These are to be put into a strong bottle with common water to boil for an hour, and the solution is afterwards to be decanted into ounce phials, adding twenty drops of muriatic acid to each. This liquid will precipi- tate the least quantity of lead from wines in a very sensible black precipitate. As iron might be accidentally contained in the wine, the muriatic acid is added to prevent its precipita- tion." Wine Vinegar.—Wine vinegar is pro- perly the vinegar of genuine foreign wines, methodically prepared as in Germany, France, and Italy, and does not include those made from cider, malt-wines, or made wines of any description whatever. All wines, especially those of a weak kind, either spontaneously, or by repeated fermentations, may be converted into a kind of vinegar. Wine Whey, White.—Take half a pint of new milk and dilute it with an equal quan- tity of hot water; boil both together, and while boiling pour in at the moment two wine- glassfuls of white wine. A curd will form, which, after the mixture is boiled for two or three minutes, wiR settle at the bottom of the saucepan. Strain the whey carefullj' from the curd; it should be perfectly clear. Sugar may be added to please the taste. " Warm white- wine whey promotes perspiration, and hence it is useful in the commencement of some com- plaints ; but taken cold it has a different efifect, and often in cases of low fever it is an excellent beverage; also in the early stages of con- valescence it is as safe and sufficient a stimulant as can be given." Wine, Wholesomeness of.—" Sweet wines," says Dr.T. J. Graham, "are nourishing, and may sometimes be useful to the weak and convalescent, but they are not so wholesome as the wines in more common use. The acid wines, as the Rhenish and hock, are the least heating, and the most diuretic, and well calcu- lated for consumption in hot weather. AU thin or weak wines, however, though of an agreeable flavour, yet from their containing little spirit, are readily disposed to become acid in the stomach. But it ought to be observed that with some delicate persons the best Tlhenish wines agree veiy well, and are less liable to ferment than many of the stronger wines. 'J'ho dry and strong wines, such as sherry, madeira. and marsala, and the dry and light, as burgundy, claret, and hermitage, are the most wholesome: they are more cordial than the acid ones, and can be taken with safety in greater quantities than the sweet. The gentle astringency in genuine claret renders it in the opinion of many on the whole the most wholesome of any strong liquor whatsoever to be drunk plentifully. Port is a strong astringent wine, and, when not mixed with more than a very small portion of brandy, is generous and stomachic, and well suited to the generality of British constitutions in tolerable health. It is well calculated for cold and moist weather; but, like other red wines, is apt to occasion costiveness. Sparkling brisk wines, as champagne, inebriate more speedily than the stiller wines, but the morbid excite- ment is of short duration, and the subsequent exhaustion is comparatively trifling. In feverish habits, burgundy, port, and the stronger white wines, are to be avoided. To those who have a disposition to corpulence, claret, hock, or moselle, on account of their diuretic properties, are preferable to every other kind of wine for daily use. The moderate use of wine is safe, and often highly beneficial to those who have passed the meridian of life, but to young per- sons it is almost invariably pernicious. Children in tolerable health are never strengthened, but always injured, by it. As a tonic and stomachic to the aged, thi'ee or four moderate-sized glasses of good wine after dinner ought to be sufficient for most men." Wines. — Recipes for many home-made wines are given in the immediately preceding pages. Recipes for the following will be found under their respective headings:— Apricot Ginger, Superior Aromatic Goosemerry, Effer- BlRCH VESCING Blackberry Gooseberry, Still Black-currant Grape, Sparkling Champagne, Currant Herbs, Wine of Champagne, English Jelly, Weak, for In- Claret Cup valids Claret, Mulled Lemon Cowslip Lemon, quickly made Currant, Black Malmsey Currant, Red Malmsey, Scotch Currant, White May Currant, fkom Un- Mulled RIPE Fruits Orange Damson Parsnip (simple way) Dandelion Raisin EoG Raisin with Cider Elder Raspberry Frontignac Shallot Ginger Yi^e Leaves WineS; Alcohol in.—The quantity of alcohol existing in different wines may be seen from the following table drawn up by Mr. Brande:— Names of the Wines, Malt and Spmtwous Liquors, and the proportion of Alcohol {specific gravitxi 0-825) in otw /lundred jiurts of tJicse liquids by measure. Lissa (average) . . . .25-41 Marsala (average) .... 25 09 Port (average) .... 23-39 Madeira and Red or Burgundy ) Madeira (average) . . \ '