PIE ( 649 ) PIE teing introduced into the pickle from the action of the acid upon the vessel containing it. Pickles should never be made or kept in any vessel of metal, for the vinegar •wiU dissolve copper and produce verdigris—a poisonous sub- sfcmco; and it acts upon lead, forming acetate of lead, another poison; and neither pewter, tin, nor zinc are altogether safe, to say nothing of the inconvenience of having the vessels cor- roded. Iron is harmless, but is liable to be corroded by vinegar, though shghtly. If covered with a glaze containing no lead it is perfectly safe. The safest materials for pickUng-vessels are unglazed earthenware, glass, porcelain, or earthenware covered with a glaze containing no lead, such as stoneware. Take note also that anything that has held grease will spoil pickles. Piedmont Cake.—Take four ounces of sweet almonds and eight bitter ones. Blanch them, and pound them in a mortar, putting in half a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water every now and then to prevent them oiling. When they are soft and smooth, soak them in half a pint of cream for three-quarters of an hour, then pass the cream through a jelly-bag, and rub the almond-paste well with the back of a wooden spoon to squeeze as much of it into the Hquid as possible. Keep the flavoured cream in a cool place until wanted for use. Prepare two ounces of candied-peel and four ounces of pistachio kernels, by cutting the peel into small pieces, and blanching the pistachios and cutting them into quarters; then put both aside until required. Beat three-quarters of a pound of butter to a cream. Add gradually four ounces of powdered sugar, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a pound of di-ied flour, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs; and when these are thoroughly mixed, work in gradually three-quarters of a pound more of flour, two more egg yolks, and four whole eggs. Beat the paste with a wooden spoon. Dissolve three- quarters of a pound of German yeast in a little lukewarm water, and knead it into the batter with the almond-flavoured cream. Butter a large mould, pour in the mixttire, and put the pistachios and candied peel evenly round the uiside. When the cake has sufficiently risen bake m a moderate oven imtil it is lightly browned. AVhen it is done enough (which may be ascertamed by sticking a skewer into the centre : if it can be drawn out dry, the cake is ready), turn it out of the mould. Pie, Christmas.—Presents of game are often made at Christmas time by friends in the ^untry to those in London and lige town? and tins game will be found to go much further if ^t^r^A * ^^^'^ ""^"^ or boiled. Partridges, pheasants, woodcock, grouse, and snipes may be thus used. If the birds are smaU, they may be kept whole; if large, the legs and wings should be cut off and thp breasts larded with bacon. Woodcock and snipes should not be drawn, as the i^Sines' which should be carefully cleaned, are con- sidered a great delicacy.' Make some S tL I?- !i -^b^y bo "I'ide of the livers of the birds pounded with an equal quantity of bacon, some sweet herbs, bread-cnunbs, and three or four chopped trufiles. Season rather highly. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good crust. Put a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, then the birds with the forcemeat balls, place pieces of butter here and there, and strew over the whole three or four truffles and some fresh mushrooms, both chopped. If the steak is omitted, slices of fat bacon may be laid under and above the meat. Pour a little stock over, cover the dish with a good crust, brush the pie over with the yolk of a beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is to be eaten hot, make some gravy of a little good melted butter, with the juice of a lemon and a little claret added. This will be an improve- ment, and wUl not interfere with the flavour of the game. If it is to be eaten cold, lift off the lid just before serving, and place some cubes of savoury aspic jelly on the top. The time to bake will depend on the size of the pie, but it should not be baked too much. Pies.—Eecipes for the following pies wiU be found under their respective headings : AND Apple Apricot Australian Beef Beef, Raised Beef Steak Beef Steak Oyster Beef Suet for Pie- crust Brandy-mince for Pies Bride Calf's Head Carp Carrot Cherry Chicken Chicken and Sweet- bread Cod, Fresh Cod, Salt Conger Eel Creamed Apple Crust, Common, for Raised Crust, Dripping, for Kitchen Use Dartmouth Devizes Devonshire Squab DOWLET Duck Dutch Apple Eel Eel, -with Tench Egg Egg Mince Fife Fish Fish and Oysters Folkestone Pudding Fowl, Mock Stras- BURO French French, Raised Fruit for Invalids Game Game and Macaroni Game, Christmas Game, Hunting Game, Perigord GiBLET GoDivEAu, Raised Goose Grouse Grouse (Scotch Fashion). Halibut Hare Hare, Raised Herb Herrings Hunter's Icing for Fruit Italian J ELLY for. Clarify Jelly, Meat Cold Jelly, Meat Economical Jelly, Meat Superior Kidney Lamb Lamb and Currant Lancashire, Raised Lark Lark, Hot Leicester Lei c ESTERS hire. Medley Ling TiOBSTEU Lobster and Oyster Macaroni Mackerel Meat (a la Dou Pedro) Mince Moor Game JIUTTON T o for. for. fob.