( 882 ) BaTJ 8AXT minutes. (For additional information regard- ing the colouring of sauces, see Colouring.) Sauces, To Thicken.—Sauces may be thickened with roux, brown and white, arrow- root, ground rice, flour, eggs, butter, and mUk, or cream. (For thickening with roux see Roux, or Thickening, Brown.) When eggs are used, the yolks only are needed. The sauce should be allowed to cool for two minutes. The yolks should then be beaten, mixed with a little of the sauce, and added gradually to the rest. The sauce should then be stirred without ceasing until it is quite hot, and it should on no account be allowed to boil. Flour, ground rice, and arrowroot should first be mixed smoothly with a little cold liquor, and to this should be added a little hot liquor. The mixture should then be poured slowly with one hand into the sauce, which should be weU stirred with the other, and it should be allowed to boil until it is so thick that it will coat the spoon. Butter and milk, or cream, though often spoken of as thickening sauces, tend more to enrich than to thicken them. Cream or milk should be boiled before being added to boiling sauce, and butter should always be stirred into the sauce cold the moment before serving, and after the sauce- pan has been taken from the fire. Sauer Kraut.—This preparation is largely used throughout the northern parts of Europe, and especially in Germany. It is served as an accompaniment to smoked meats, boiled ham, bacon, beef, or sausages. The taste for this delicacy is certainly an acquired one, but it is a very general one in some districts. Sauer kraut is considered an excellent antiscorbutic. Take large well-grown cabbages with fine white hearts. Remove the outer leaves and stalks, and shred the cabbages very finely. Cover the bottom of a large pan or tub with cabbage- leaves. Throw in the cabbage as it is shred, and sprinkle salt evenly upon the layers. One handful of salt will be amply sufficient for a large panful of shred cabbage; too much salt will prevent fermentation. Keep pressing the cabbage down closely as it is thrown in. AVhen the vessel is quite full, sprinkle a little salt over the top, and cover it first with cab- bage-leaves and then with a Unen cloth; lay a wooden cover over all, and on this put a heavy weight. Keep the pan in a warm cellar tiU fermentation has begun. This may be known by small white globules forming on the surface. When the moisture dries in a crust over the top the kraut is ready for use. It should be kept in a cool place tiU wanted. Once a week the cabbage-leaves should either be renewed or washed, and the linen cloth should be washed in cold water, and replaced. Some persons put caraway-seeds and juniper-berries amongst the layers, and think the kraut is improved by the addition. If, owing to any cause, after waiting two or three days there is no sign of fermenta- tion, a cold weak brine of salt and water should be poured over the cabbage. The cabbages will be all the better if they are allowed to lio in a cool corner for several days before being used. Time, three weeks to prepare the kraut. It will keijp for a year. Sauer Kraut (another way).—Select sound Bohd cabbages, slice them across, and place the shces m a barrel in layers about four inches high; over each kyer strew a handful of salt and some caraway seeds. Press the whole down tightly, and when the barrel iu fuU place a heavy weight upon the end. After standing a week according to the temperature, the nuih^ wiU begm more or less to ferment; and when the fermentation is over the barrel should be headed up. There is no vinegar used in the preparation. Sauer Kraut (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).— Pake a dozen hard white cabbages, trim and divide them into quarters, take out all the stalks from the heart of the cabbage, cut it transversely with a knife or chaif-cutter into very small slips. Mix six pounds of salt with four oimces of juniper berries and an ounce oi caraway seed; put the cabbage into a cask, first strewing the bottom with some of the mixture, then a layer of cabbage; take care that the head of the cask slips down within the staves and fits closely to the sides; press the cover down, and lay a large stone on it. Set the cask in a slied or outhouse for three months, it wiU then be coming ready for use. When you use it take care of the stone and cover, scrape aside some of the top, take out what you want, and replace what you scraped off the top, and cover down the cask as closely as before. Put the kraut into a stewpan with a little cold water, simmer it for half an hour, drain in a colander; when done, put the meat you intend to dress into the stew- pan and cover it over with the kraut; put just water enough to stew the meat and give gravy to serve up with it. When you dish up, put the kraut and gravy first into the dish, and lay the meat on them. It may be added that some sauer kraut is so juicy as not to require any water: the fatty materials employed by the Germans to stew with it are generally sufficient. Sauer Kraut, To Cook.—Lay a good- sized piece of butter in a saucepan, and lot it melt. Put in half the sauer kraut, and lay on this the meat to be made ready with it: either ham or bacon smoked and pared, pork, or any sort of sausage. Over all place the other half of the kiaut, pour in a ghissful of white wine, and add a little water occasionally to moisten it. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the contents stew gently tiU the sauer kraut is soft and yellow. When cooked enough, take out the meat. Dredge in a table-spoonful of flour, let the kraut stew half an hour longer, then place the meat again in the saucepan to get quite hot. Stir the kraut now and then with a wooden spoon, and take care that it does not bum. What is left over of the sauer kraut is good warmed up on the following day or a day or two after; it may be served with some other meat. As an accompaniment to smoked meats, roast pork, sausages, &c., sauer kniut may be prepared in the way just described, but without the meat; if so, stir in a thickening of flour and butter before sending to table. It is to bo observed that »uier kraut I'an liardly be cooked loo iiuu-h. It requires at first from two ami a half to tlnec houi-a' stewing.