( 588 ) PLU PLU kernels peeled and added to the jam two or three minutes before the jam is taken from the fire. "When the jam sets and the plums are tender, the preparation is sufficiently boiled. Plum Jam without Sugar.—Take a gallon of ripe elderberries. Strip them from their stems, put them into a deep earthen jar, place this in a saucepan of water, and keep it boiling until the juice flows freely. Tress the juice througli a strainer, put it into a pre- serving-pan with two gallons of dry ripe plums (mussel plums are the most suitable for the purpose), a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves, and six inches of thin lemon-rind finely minced. Let the jam boil gently for two hours or more until it is thick and smooth: stir frequently to keep it from burning. Turn it while hot into stone jars, and when it is cold pour boiling mutton suet over it, or cover with brandied paper and bladder. Store in a cool dry place. Plum Jelly.—Take four pounds of sound, ripe, red plums. Boil them in four quarts of water until the liquid is reduced to three pints. Strain through a jelly-bag, and vdth each pint of juice put a poimd of sugar. Boil the syrup until it jellies. Pour into small jars, and cover in the usual way. Or, put the plums into a deep earthen jar, cover it closely, and set it in a pan of boiling water, which must be kept boiling until the plimis yield their juice readily. Pour the juice from them, strain, and measure it; then boil it quickly for twenty-five minutes. Put with it three pounds of sugar for every four pints of juice, and boil it until it will stiffen. In either of the above cases the plums from which the j nice has been strained may be sweetened and used for common pies; or they may be made into plum paste for dessert. Plum Kalteschale (a German dish for hot weather).—Take one pound of sound ripe plums. Put them into a deep earthen jar, sprinkle over them a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, and pour half a pint of water over them. Tie two or three folds of paper over the jar, and set it in a pan three-parts full of boil- ing water, which must be kept boiling until the plums are quite soft; then lift the jar out, and put it aside until the next day. Press the pulp through a tamis. Crack the stones, and boil the kernels, with the thick part which will not pass the strainer, half a stick of cinnamon, and two cloves, in half a pint of water for twenty minutes. Strain the liquid into the fruit. Add a little sugar to taste, and wine—claret for red plums, and light Ehine wine for green ones— with a little more water, if liked. Serve the fruit in a compote dish, with a slice of toast cut into dice, and thrown when cold into the fruit. Time, two days to prepare. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for four or rive persons. Plum Loaf, Plain.—Put two pounds of best flour into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a pound of picked and dried cnrrants. four ounces of moist sugar, and half a nutmeg grated. Didsolvo half an ounce of German yeast very gradually in three-quar- ters of a fjint of lukuwunn milk, in wljich has been dissolved four ounces of butter or good beef dripping. Stir this into the flour, and knead it to a smooth dougli. Put a cover over tlie bowl, and set it to rise for about an hour. Make it up into a loaf, put it into a butUjred tin, and bake in a moderate oven. If preferred, a table-spoonful of solid brewer's yea^t or two dessert-spoonfuls of baking-powder may be used instead of tlic German yeast. In order to ascertain whether the loaf is sufficiently baked, put a skewer into it; if it comes out clean and dry, the cake is done. It is perhaps a better plan to knead in the sugar, currants, and spice after the dough has risen (as in Plum Cake, Plain). Plum Lozenges for Dessert.—Put a pound of ripe ami sound Orleans plums into a jar, and place them in a saucepan of boil- ing water over the fire until they are so soft that the stones can be removed. AVhilst this is being done, soften in the same way half a pound of cored and sliced apples. Turn both plums and apples into a preserving-pan. Put with them the juice of half a lemon and three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and boil quickly for three-quarters of an hour. Stir well to keep the fruit from burning. Pour the paste upon shallow dishes, and when it is cold cut it into lozenges, and dry these on a sieve before the fire. Keep them between sheets of writing-paper in a tin box. Plum Marmalade. — Pick the stalks from the fruit, weigh it, gash it with a silver knife, and put it into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer gently until the fruit is quite soft, lift out the stones as they rise to the sur- face, and keep the plums well stirred to pre- vent their burning. Press the pulp through a coarse sieve. Mix with it three-quarteis ut a pound of sugar to a pint of pulp, and boil gently, stii-ring constantly till the marmalade is very thick. Pour tlie marmalade into jelly- pots, and cover closely. Plum Paste Sweetmeats. — Put the plums into a preser\dng-pan with just enough water to cover them, and let them simmer until quite soft. Strain' the juice from them, and pass them through a sieve. Stir the pulp over the fire until it is quite dry. Great care vn]} be required to keep it from burning. Weigh it, and mix one pound of powdered sugar with each pound of pulp. Stir it again over the fire until it leaves the pan with the spoon. Spread it out on a shallow dish, and as soon as it is cold stamp it into squares, diamonds, or rounds, and put these in a warm place until they are quite dry. When cold, store them in layers in tin boxes, with a sheet of writing-paper between each layer. If preferred, the paste may be kept in small jars, and covered over like j(>lly. Plum paste may be made of the plums from which jelly has been made. Time, according to the quality of the plums. Plum Porridge or Broth.—Plum por- ridge was a favounte dish two hundred years ago, but it is now almost obsolete, as it has been superseded by plum pudding.^ The fol- lowing is a recipe of Uueen Anne's time:—