PIG PIG ( 563 ) upon these, breast downwards, and put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg between each two half pigcous. Sprinkle some pepper and salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg over. the pigeons, put here and there upon them an ounce of butter broken into small pieces, lay on the top a small bay-leaf, and pour over the birds a cupful of nicely-seasoned stock suf- ficiently strong to form a jelly when cold. If there is any doubt about this, a dessert-spoonful of gelatine must be dissolved in the stock. Cover the pie with a thick crust, ornament prettily, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, put three of the feet, properly cleaned, in the middle of the crust, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about two hours and a half. Probable cost, 4s., with pigeons at 9d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons, Piquant.—Slice a large onion and put it into a shallow dish with two bay- leaves, twenty juniper berries, half a tea-spoon- ful of peppercorns, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Lay two pigeons in this marinade, and turn and baste them twice a day for two days. If the birds are old they will need to remain in the marinade a day or two longer. Take them up, wipe them dry, and lard the breasts evenly, then put them into a saucepan with an ounce of butter, and turn them about over a mode- rate fire unto, they are brightly and equally- browned. Lift them out, stir a spoonful of flour in with the butter, and mix it briskly with a wooden spoon until it begins to colour, then add four ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces, the liver of the birds, a cupful of stock or water, the strained juice of half a lemon with an inch or two of the rind, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let this sauce boil, then put in the pigeons, cover them closel}^ and let them stew for half an hour. Serve the birds on a hot dish with the sauce poured round them. Time to stew, about au hour. Probable cost, 2s. SuflS.cient for two persons. Pigeon Pudding. — Line a pudding- basin with a good suet or butter crust. Fill it with a poimd of rump steak cut into neat pieces and nicely seasoned, and two or three pigeons divided into halves, and prepared as for a pie. Add the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, a small lump of butter, and a cupful of rather highly- seasoned _ gravy. Cover the pudding with pastry, tie it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Time to boil, two hours and a half. Proba,ble cost, 4s., with pigeons at 9d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons, Pupton of. —Butter a pie- dish rather thickly, and line the inside with a highly-seasoned veal forcemeat about three- quarters of an inch in thickness. Lay upon this three or four thin slices of fat bacon, three plump young pigeons split in halves and flat- tened, a blanched sweetbread cut into slices, an ox palate boiled tender and cut up small, a dozen asparagus tops, as many button mush- rooms, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Cover the whole with a layer of forcemeat spread on the top like a pie-crust, and bake in a well-heated oven. Servo the pupton ' turned on a hot dish in a shape, with rich brown gravy poured round it. Time, to bake from two to three hours. Probable cost, 68. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pigeons, Bagout of.—Pluck, singe, and draw a couple of young pigeons, cleanse and open the gizzards, and stew them with the livers in as much water as will cover them until they are done enough. Mince all finely, and mix with them their weight in finely-shred beef-suet and grated bread-crumbs. Add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg Moisten the forcemeat with a well-beaten egg and half an ounce of butter, and with it cover the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and put these balls inside the birds. Truss the pigeons securely, as if for boiling, and browii them in a little hot butter. Pour over them the liquid in which the gizzards were boiled, and add a sliced onion, a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, a glass of claret, a bunch of savoury herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, then strain the gravy, pour it back into the saucepan, put six or eight button- mushrooms into it, stew about half an hour longer, and serve. A few forcemeat balls stewed for eight or ten minutes in the gravj- are a great improA'^ement to this ragout. Pro- bable cost, 2s., exclusive of the wine. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. Pigeons, Hoast.—Pluck, singe, and draw a couple of young pigeons, and truss them firmly. Mince the livers, and mix with them two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of fresh butter, or, if prefen'ed, finely-shred beef suet, a shallot finely minced, a tea-spoonful of shred parsley, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill the birds with this forcemeat, fasten a slice of fat bacon over the breast of each, and roast before a clear fire. Make a sauce by mixing a little water with the gravy which drops from the birds, and boiling it with a little thickening; season it with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Pigeons are sometimes served on a toast, and brown gravy and bread sauce sent to table with them. Time to roast, twenty to twenty- five minutes. Probable cost of pigeons, 9d. to Is. 9d. each. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Hoast (another way).—Eoasted pigeons require a brisk fire, and must be well done, and at the same time afford gravy when cut into. Roast the bii-ds, with stiifBng in the belly, prepared as follows :—Take the livers and hearts of the pigeons, and about double the quantity of the fat of ham or bacon, and beat these ingredients in a mortar to a smooth paste. Moisten some crumb of bread with milk, then press out the milk through a napkin. Add chopped parsley, grated lemon-peel, black pepper, and salt; unite these with white and yolk of egg beat together, divide the mass into equal portions, and stuff the birds. As pigeons possess scarcely any fat, they are often while roasting basted with butter. By way of sauce, melt somo butter with a little flour, moisten with veal consomme, and stir in some chopped