( 1086 ) VEN VEB a taWe-spoonful of red-currant jelly to the soup, and serve it with the meat in the dish. Time, ftbout four hours. Venison Soup, Brown.—Cut about a pound and a half oi tlio broast of venison into small pieces, and stow them with a small piece of fi-osh butter for half an hour. Turn them about occasionally, and bo cai-eful that they do not bum. lilix a quart of cold water with a quarter of a pint of the blood, put the liquor into a separate stewpan, and stir till it boils. P\it tho stew into it, and add six or <iight black peppercorns, an onion minced small, and the rod part of a carrot grated: then simmer tho soup gently for from ono hour and a half to two hours. Strain the soup, and thicken with brown thickening. Put the meat into it again, add a glassful of wine, make it thoroughly hot, and serve. When the blood is objected to, it may be omitted, and beef or mutton stock substituted for the water. French beans cut into diamonds, and carrots and turnips cut into dice, may be served with this soup. Venison Soup, made from the Remains of Cold Roast Venison.— Break up the bone into small pieces, put it into a stewpan, and cover with cold water, or with stock, if at hand. Put with it two carrots, two onions, each stuck with a clove, and a little j)epper and salt. Let the Liquor boil, skim careftdly, and simmer gently for three hours or more. Strain it, and thicken with a little brown thickening. Let it simmer again by the side of the fire till it has thrown up its grease, then skim it. Let it boil again, add a table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and a glass- ful of port or claret, and serve very hot. Cut some stale bread into dice, fry these in hot fat, drain them on a sieve before the fire, and send them to table with the soup. If there be any meat left on the bones, it may be cut up, and either stewed and rubbed through a sieve or pounded to a pulp and stirred into the soup. Time, four to five hours. Venison Steaks, Broiled. — Cut the pleaks an inch thick from the leg or the loin of venison. Make the gridiron hot, rub the bars with a little suet, and place the steaks upon it over a clear fire. Turn them every two minutes to preserve the gravy. Make the steak dish very hot; put on it for each pound of venison an ounce of butter, a table-spoonful of liquid red- currant jelly, a table-spoonful of wine, or, as a substitute, boiling stock or water, and a Httle pepper and salt. Turn the broiled steaks in the sauce once or twice, and serve very hot. _ By way of variety, the butter only may be put into the dish under the steaks, and stewed mush- rooms may be served with the venison; or thin slices of lemon maybe laid on the steaks for the last two or three minutes that they are. being broiled, and then served with them. Time, from twenty to twenty-five minutes to broil the steaks. Probable cost of venison, very un- certain. Venison Steaks, Fried. —Cut some steaks half an inch thick from a leg or lorn of venison, season with pepper and salt, dip them in flour, and put them in tho frying-pan with some hot fat. Keep them covered till they are brightly browned on ono side, then take off tho cover, turn them, and let them brown quickly upon the other. Bo careful tliat they are not overdone. Pour a wine-glassful of boil- ing stock or water into the pan, add a table- spoonful of red-currant jelly and a glassful of port or claret if Liked; stir the sauce; over tlio tire for a few minutes, and serve -very hot. Probable cost of venison, vury uncertain. Venison, Wholesomeness of.—Veni- son is less nutritive than beef, but is more easily digested. Indeed, venison, if kept for some time, is one of the most easily digested articles of animal food, and well fitted for dys- peptics. When used by such persons, it should be plain roasted, and rather underdone; and they should eat it without any sweet condi- ments, using merely table-salt. It should be kept for some time to make it tender, but not so long as to begin to decay, as is often done. Venus's Jelly.—Boil a quarter of a pound of hartshorn shavings in a quart of water till the liquor is reduced to a pint. Strain, and simmer in it the thin rind of a large lemon and of an orange. When sufficiently flavoured, pour it out, and let it get cold. Sweeten to taste, add the strained juice of the fruit, a large wine-glassful of sherry, and the whisked whites and crushed shells of two eggs. Put the liquor on the fire, stir briskly for a minute or two, then let it simmer without being touched for ten minutes. Lift the pan gently from the fire, and let the liquor stand to settle for ten minutes. Pour it through a jeUy-bag, and strain till clear. Colour with a few drops of cochineal. Verder, or Milk Punch.—Eub the rind of half a dozen lemons and as many oranges with lumps of sugar tiU the yellow part is taken off. Pare off verj' thinly what cannot be rubbed into the sugar, and soak this in a bottle of rum or brandy for two days. Be careful not to take any of the white part of the lemon, as this would make the punch bitter. Strain the spirit, put with it the juice of the lemons, which has been squeezed upon two pounds of sugar (in- cluding the lumps upon which the lemons were rubbed), four quarts of water, and a pint of boiling-hot milk. Eun the preparation through a jeUy-bag, and keep it in a stone jar, closely corked, for six weeks. This bevemge is not much used nowadays. Verder, or Milk Punch, quicMy made.—Sweeten a small tea-cupful of hot mUk, and add it, with a glassful of brandy, to a quart of lemonade. Strain through a jcUy- bag, and it will be fit for use. Verjuice.—Verjuice, or the juice of green fruits, is an acid liquor expressed from crabs, sour grapes, and unripe gooseberries, and used in sauces or ragoilts as a substitute for lemon- juice; indeed, for some dishes experienced cooks prefer verjuice to lemon-acid, io pre- pare it from unripe grapes, gatlier the grapea while they are transparent, and extract ttxG iuice from them by a wine or cider press, or by pressing them in a cloth. Futer it re-