STB ( 92S ) STO cold H8 will cover it. Sorvo the croam when stiff and cold, and ornamout tho Hurfaco with a littlo pink suH:ar, knobs of nid-ciirrant jolly, or strips of prosorvod fruit, or blandiod almonds. Tho blancniani^o may ho mudo with isingUss, gelatiuo, or fino arrowroot. Stone-fruit, Wholesomeness of.— Stone-fruit, gonomlly speaking, is loss digestible when eaten raw than the otlier descriptions of fruit; to healthy persons, however, when ripe, and consumed in moderation, it is not injurious. Plums have acquired a chsiracter for aiusing disorder and diarrh(xia which they scarcely deserve. Undoubtedly with some persons they disagree, and indeed, with all, if they are eaten iimnoderately or in bad condition; but that they, or fruits generally, are the cause of the regular autumnal or British cholera, is a fallacy which has been established in the popular mind in consequence of the season at which plums are ripe, the "plum-season" being coincident with that at which people in this country, who have been exposed to the effects of the sum- mer's heat are most liable to that outbreak of accumxdated bile which is known as bowel complaint, or English, or British, or summer cholera. Store-rooms and Stores.—A clean, tidy, well-arranged store-room is one sign of a good methodical housekeeper. Where stores are put away anyhow, and taken out at any time and in any quantity, we have good grounds for supposing that disorder and ex- travagance prevail. A store-room ought to be large, airy, cool, and dry. Such a room is not always to be had, but even if a closet has to be put up with, it may be kept clean. Shelves should be arranged round the walls, hooks fastened to the edges of the shelves. The driest and coolest part of the room should be kept for jams, jellies, and pickles. All the jars should be distinctly labelled at the front, so that they will not all need to be taken down every time a particular jar is wanted. Biscuits or cakes should be kept in closely-covered tin boxes; lemons should be hung in nets. Soap should be bought in large quantities, and cut up in convenient-sized pieces, so that it may be dry before it is used. Coffee, when roasted, should be kept in small quantities; if unroastod, it wiU improve with keeping. Stores should on no account be left in the papers in which they were sent from the grocer's, but should be put into tin canisters or earthenware jars closely covered, and each jar, like the jam, shoxild be labelled. Stores should be given out regularly, either daUy or weekly. In order to check their consumption, the housekeeper will do well to keep in the store-room a memorandum-book with a pencil fastened to it, and in this book she should enter the date on which all stores were brought in or taken out. By means of these memoranda she can compare one week's outgo with another, and immediately discover any extravagance. A hammer, a few nails, a little gum, a ball of string, a few sheets of foolscap, and a pair of scissors, shcjuld always be kept'm the store-room. Store Sauce Kitchinor's Store Sauce). Store Sauce or Cherokee (««« Cherokee or Ktoro Sauce). Store Sauces.—Miuiy varieties of exctij- I lent store sauces iriay be IxiUght of tlie gi-oc(!r and Italian warehousemun, and will prove (jf great value in colouring and flavouring soup.s, sauces, and stews. As, liowcvor, they are generally very strong, they should be added tc any preparation with care. As they can be bo easily procui-ed, it is advisable to keep on hand a small quantity only of them, for they certainly deteriorate in quality witli keening. The bottles containing them should be tigJitly stoi)pered, and kept in a dry ]>lace. Tho .;toi-e sauces most likely to be needed are mushrocn and walnut ketchup, essence of anchovies, chilli, cucmnber, shallot, and tairagon vinegar, and Harvey or Worcester Sauce. Stout.—Stout is only a stronger form of porter. It is extensively brewed in London, Dubhn, and elsewhere. Good di-aught stout contains an ounce and a half of alcohol in the pint. Stranger's Cake, or Polly's Cake.— Rub half a pound of butter or sweet dripjjing into a poimd of flour. Add a small salt-spoon- ful of salt, three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking- powder, a pound of groimd rice, half a pound of moist sugar, a pound of picked currants or sultanas, and two ounces of candied peel. A little spice may be added if approved. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Mix the cake with four well-whisked eggs and a cupful of milk. Bake immediately in a moderate oven. Time to bake, two hours and a half or more. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. for a cake this size. Strasburg Fowl Pie, Mock {see Fowl Pie, Mock Strasburg). Strasburg Goose.—The Strasburg goose is an animal that has to submit, for the sake of the luxuries of mankind, to a very peculiar operation. It is tied down to a board, and put in front of a fire, which appears very cruel; but it does not hinder the animal from getting fat. It is fed with barley-meal, and it thus takes in much more starch than is necessary to maintain its heat, and the consequence is, the starch is converted into fat and deposited in greatest abundance in the liver. The goose is then killed, the liver is taken out, and these distended livers are the precious niorceaux con- tained in the pdte d^foie gras (which see). Strawberries. — This dsUcious smnmer fruit is known both in Europe and America. It belongs to temperate and rather cold chmates. It may be eaten fresh, or made into preserves. It derives its name from the practice of putting straw under the berries to keep them clean whilst they ripen. Ripe strawberries may be kept for two or three days by puttinsr them on ice, or keeping them in a cool dark place. Strawberries and Cream.—Procure the fruit when it is freshly gathered and just ripe. If it is not to bo eaten immodiatcly, keep it in a cool place till wanted; but tho freslu^r it is the better. Pick the strawberries, and remove every imperfect and unsound berry. Do not wash thorn unless it is absolutely