RIC RIC ( 736 ) willi yrulwl uuLinof^ or f^ratod Icinon-rind. I'iiro eif^ht or ton Itiryo iipplos, quiirtur nndcoro thorn, aud liiy thimi in a saucepan with tho choppod rind and strainod juico of u largo fresh lemon, four table-spoonfuls of powdorod sugar, and a wine-glassful of water. Tjot tliein sitninor gently until they are tender, then drain theiu on a sieve. They must not be allowed to break. Spread the rice on a dish, aud make it slightly hollow in tho centre. Lay part of tho apples upon it, spread more rice over these, then add more apples, aud repeat until the in- gredients are used, and tho rice has assumed the fonn of a pyramid. Boil the juice which drained from tho apples to a thick syrup, and pour this hot over the whole. Garnish the dish prettily with angelica or with lemon or orange- rind cut into strips and stewed in the syrup. Serve either hot or cold. Time, three-quarters of an horn- to simmer the rice, half an hour to stew the apples. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Rice and Apples (another way).—Boil six ounces of rice in a quart of milk till tender; sweeten and flavour agreeably. Pare six or eight medium-sized apples, scoop out the cores, and fill the cavities with sugar, butter, and lemon-rind. Lay the apples in a thickly- buttered dish, and put the rice round them. Brush the surface with yolk of egg, and sift powdered sugar thickly over it. Place the dish in a brisk oven, and bake the preparation until the apples are tender and the rice is brightly browned. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice and Apples (another way).—-See Apples and Rice. Rice and Apricot Pudding.—Wash one pound of rice. Drain it, and put it into a saucepan with three pints of boiling milk, a slice of fresh butter, and three table-spoonfuls of sugar. Let it simmer gently for an hour. Pour it out, and when it is partially cooled stir into it three weU-beaten eggs. Take a dozen and a half of preserved apricots. Halve them, simmer them in a little thin syrup for five minutes, and drain them. Butter a plain pud- ding mould, and sprinkle bread-crumbs over the butter. Place in the mould a layer of rice an inch thick. Put on this some pieces of apricot, and fill the mould with alternate layers of rice and fruit. Bake the pudding in a moderately- heated oven. When it is done enough, turn it out carefully, and serve with a good custard poured round it. If preferred, other fruits may be used instead of apricots. Pine-apple or apple are especially suitable. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, varying with the price of fruit. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Rice and Apricots {see Apricots, au Riz). Rice and Chicken—Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, tlirow it into boiling water, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Drain it on a sieve. Truss a plump young chicken for boiling. Put it mto a stewpau with tho rico, a slice of butter, a ])in('h of salt, six or (■ight ijciipcrconis, and small onion. Pour in as much veal stock or water as will cov(;r th(! fowl and the rice, cover the saucepan closely, bring tho liquor to the boil, then draw tho saucejian to the side, and let all simmer very gently until the chicken is dono encjugh. Take it up, and keep it hot. Strain the rico, and let it swell for a minute or two on a sieve before tho fire. Strain the gravy, thicken it with a little flour and butter, add a quarter of a pint of cream, and further season- ing if required, then heat it again. Serve the fowl in tho centre of a dish, with the rico neatly arranged round it, a little of the sauce poured over it, and the rest in a tureen. Serve immediately. Time to simmer the "jhicken, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour from the time the stock boils. Probable cost, 58. or more, according to the price of the chicken. Sufficient for four or flve persons. Rice and Chicken (another way).—Boil a chicken and a quarter of a pound of rice as in the preceding recipe. Drain oft' the rice, and beat it thoroughly till quite smooth with a slice of butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg, and as much curry-powder as will make it a bright yellow colour. Spread part of the rice on a dish, lay the fowl upon it, and put the rest of the rice round it, leaving the breast uncovered. Make the surface of the rice smooth, and lay upon it a border of hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. Strain the gravy in which the rice was boiled, and serve in a tureen. Rice and Chicken (a la Creole).—Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters, throw it into boiling water, and boil quickly until it is quite tender. Drain it, and put it on a sieve before the fire to swell. Divide two young chickens into neat joints convenient for serving, sprinkle over these a seasoning made with two crushed cloves, ten powdered peppercorns, and a pinch of ground saffron, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned all over. Take them up, and in the same fat fry thirty small onions chopped small. As soon as the onions turn yellow, drain and put them into a saucepan with the fried fowl, and pour over all as much veal stock as will cover them. Let aU simmer gently together until the chicken is done enough. Put the pieces of chicken on a dish, thicken the gravy with a spoonful of brown tliickening, and pour it over them: serve the rice on a separate dish. The rice and the chicken should be stewed at the same time, that they may be suf- ficiently dressed and hot together. Time to simmer the chicken, about forty minutes. Pi-o- bable cost of chickens, 2s. 6d. each when in full season. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Rice and Egg Soup (a Danish recipe). —Make a bouillon, and strain it; set it agam on the fire with a quarter of a poimd of scalded rice ; let it boil till quite tender, then beat up the yolks of four or six eggs, and stir them in. The soup must not boil after the eggs are added. Send to table with toasted bread. Rice and Gooseberry Pudding Gooseberry and Rice Puddmg).