SHR SHR ( 869 ) thorn, put them into a pi^-dish, and season according to the directions given for Shrimps, Potted Whole, allowing an ounce and a half of butter for a pint of shrimps. Bake in a slow oven till the butter is melted; then let the shi-imps get cold, mince them with a sharp knife, and potmd them to a smooth paste with the butter in which they were baked. Press them into very small cups, and when wanted heat them in a gentle oven; turn them out upon a dish, and pour rich white sauce round them. If liked, the sauce can be coloured brightly with lobster coral. Shrimp Salad.—Shell a quart of freshly- boiled shrunps, and pile them in the centre of a dish. Boil three eggs hard, and mince the whites and yolks separately. Sprinkle the whites round the shrimps, place a single row of green capers next, and then the chopped yolks. Surround the whole with lettuces cut into quarters and with water-cresses, and garnish the dish with gherkins and boiled beet-root, or Uttle pieces of pickled red cabbage. Send salad sauce to table in a boat. Shrimi) Sandwich..—Put a layer of potted shi'imps between two pieces of white bread and butter, and after pressing the sand- wich gently down, cut it with a sharp knife neatly round the edges. It is usual, before closing in, to spread a little made mustard over the meat. Shrimp Sauce, for Trout, Turbot, Soles, Sahnon, &c.—No. l. Work two ounces of butter—or more or less, accord- mg to taste—and a table-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon. Add a cupful of boiling water and a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and stir the sauce on the fire till it is on the point of boiling, lake it off the fire, add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste. Throw in a third of a pint of shrimps freed from the shells; let them heat three or tour minutes on the fire in the sauce tiU' they axe tender, but on no account let them boil, as It wiU make them hard. Serve in a boat If Weed, an ounce of shrimp butter {see Shrimp Butter) may be dissolved in the sauce, or a tea- spoontnl of anchovy essence may be added to it. No. 2. Take a cupful of melted butter, made partly of milk and partly of water. Stir into it a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of pounded mace, and a quarter of a pmt of freshly picked shrimps. Let .hem heat over the fire for three or four mmutes, without boiling, and serve imme- diately. A little cream makes a delicate addition. Time, three minutes to simmer the sauce. Probable cost, shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Sufficient for six or seven persons. . Shrimp Sauce (M. Tide's recipe).—Put into a stewpan a ((uarter of a pound of fresh butter, a tea-spoouful of Hour, a small glassful of water, some salt and pepper, and a spoonful of the essence of anchovies; put this on the stove As soon as the sauce is thick take it off, and put in the .shrimps, after having washed them well. Never neglect to season sauces; without sea- soning the best cookery is good for nothing. Shrimp Sauce (another way).—Take half a pint of shrimps, picked and washed very clean, and place them in a stewpan with a spoonful of anchovy sauce, and half a pint of melted butter. Simmer for five minutes, and squeeze in half a lemon. Shrimp Sauce (superior).—No. 1. Take a pint of shrimps which have been boiled in plain salt and water, without spice or flavom-- ing of any kind. Pick them, and in doing so, throw the heads and shells into one dish and the flesh into another. Boil the heads and shells gently in two table-spoonfuls of water till the flavour is extracted. Strain the liquor through a sieve, let it stand to settle, then pour it off clear, and free from sediment. Make a breakfast-cupful of melted butter; stir the liquor into it and the shrimps, and shake the sauce over the fire for three or four minutes till the shrimps are hot and tender, but they must not boil, or they will be hard. No seasoning will be required, and the sauce will be sufficiently coloured without anchovy. No. 2. Take the third of a pint of picked shrimps. Pound half of them in a mortar till smooth, and mix with them half a cupful of thick cream, sweet and fresh. Work two ounces of fi-esh butter and a table-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon. Add a cupful of boUing water, and stir the sauce over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Put in the shrimps, and when they are hot and tender, put in the cream, and serve immediately. Time to simmer, three or four minutes. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimp Soup {see Eel Soup, Brown). Shrimp and Tomato Soup.—Boil a pint of shrimps in salted water, £b,voured with a bunch of sweet herbs and a large slice of lemon. Drain, cool, and shell the fish, and preserve a quarter of a pint of the liquor in which they were boiled. Slice a dozen laxge ripe tomatoes, and stir them over the fire, with four sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a slice of fresh butter, for three or four minutes. A clove of garlic may be added, if liked; and if there is difficulty in procuring- the tomatoes, a smaller number must be made to answer. Pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and let them stew gently till quite tender. Kub them through a sieve and mix with them half a tumblerful of the liquor m which the shrimps were boiled, and a little more stock, if necessary. Season the souii with cayenne, and let it boil, stiiring it well till It begms to thicken. A few minutes before serving, throw the picked shi-imps into the soup. Time, two hours. Sufficient for five or SIX persons. Shrimps and Asparagus (a Danish re- cipe).—Scrape twenty-fave asjmragus of middle size, cut them into pieces about an inch lone boil them m half a pint of water and a littk salt. When tender, drain them. Pick a pint of boiled shrimps, pound the shells with a little butter, set It on the fire to brown ; by dofrrees,' pour over it half a pint of hot w;te? orThS bouillon, and lastly, the water in which the