( 762 ) BOO ROB iiway tho drippinfj boforo using tho salt, bocauao tat usod for puddings and pios and frying is bottor without salt. You may dredgo a littlo Hour over it, and every pail should bo of a nice pale brown : if any part bo scorched orl)lackenod you have failed in your cooking. Pour oif the dripping, leaving in tho pan the pure gravy free from fat.' Have a gill or half a pint of tho stock or broth, or water, ready; pour it into tho dripping-pan, rinse it round, strain it into the dish, and send it to table as quickly as possible. Some cooks tie a piece of drii)pin^ or buttered paper on the moat." Rob.—Robs are vegetable juices simply inspissated by evaporating most of the water in a vessel over a fire till they acquire the consistence of syrup, which wiU prevent their running into fermentation. The fruits are to bo squeezed in bags to obtain the juices. Sometimes a little sugar is added to make them keep bettor. Kob of elderberries will keep without sugar, and is sometimes employed medicinally. Robert, Sauce.—No. l. Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a saucepan, and fry in it two ■ moderate-sized onions finely chopped. When they are lightly coloured, pour over them a wine-glassful of vinegar, and sim- mer for four minutes. Add an oimce of brown thickening, or, failing this, stir in a table-spoon- ful of iiour, half a pint of broth or water, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and the same of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire for twenty minutes, then add a table-spoonful of French mustard, a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence. Mix all well together over the fire, and serve. If French mustard cannot be had, English' mustard must be used, but it -wiU not answer the purpose nearly so well. A spoonful of port is sometimes added. No. 2. The following is a more simple recipe than the above. Slice two onions, and fry them in butter till they begin to turn yellow. Pour over them as much brown gravy as will cover them, add a table-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of salt, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, and simmer very gently, adding more gravy if necessary till the onions are tender. Rub them through a fine sieve, mix with the pulp some more gravy, say a quarter of a pint, boil once more, and serve. Time to prepare, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Robert, Sauce (M. Tide's way). — Cut some onions into small dice, fry them of a fine brown, moisten them with some Espagnolc (Spanish sauce), or dust them with flour, and moisten with veal gravy. Skim it, that the Sfiuce may look bright; put in a little pepper and salt, and just before you send up mix a spoonful of mustard. Rocambole.—This plant, which is em- ployed much in the same way as garlic and shallots, is a native of Denmark. It has compound bulbs like garlic, but the cloves are smaller. " The cloves," says Loudon, both of the stalk and roots, are used in the manner of garlic or shallot, and nearly for the same purposes. It is considered milder than garlic." Rochelle Salad.—Wash two line heads of celery, and dry iLom perfectly. Cut tlie best stalks into pieces an inch long, and lay these in a salad Ijowl, mixed witli the whites of three hard-boiled eggs, thinly shred. Press the yolks of tho eggs through a wii-e sieve, and the moment before serving poui- over the sulad a quarter of a pint of tartar sauce. Sprinkle over this first the powdered egg-yolks, and afterwards three fine truflies, finely shred. Ornament the salad with anchovy, beetroot, slices of German sausages, or in any suitable manner, and serve. If liked, the truflies may bo omitted, and mayonnaise sauce be substituted for the tartar sauce. Rock.—Under this name flourishes a kind of sweetmeat composed of sugar, and sometimes mixed with almonds and various flavours. The sugar is first of all boiled, then it is poured out on a cold marble slab, and worked up into a rough mass. The name "rock" is also given to another kind of sweetmeat, in which the sugar whilst hot and soft is repeatedly pulled over a smooth iron hook, until it becomes white and porous. This rock is flavoui-ed in various ways. Rock Biscuits.—Break the whites of three eggs into a pan, and stir them together with a whisk till they break. Cut some blanched, but not dried, sweet almonds into long thin slices, and put them, with an ounce of candied orange- peel cut^small, and one oimce of finely-powdered loaf sugar, to the eggs; mix all well up together with a spoon, adding more almonds and sugar to make the preparation hang together if required. Put white wafer-paper on your iron plates, and lay^he mixture on it in biscuits about the size of a half-crown piece, but piled about an inch to an inch and a half high. Bake them, in a slack oven, of a nice light colour. Rock Biscuits, Lemon {see Lemon Rock Biscuits). Rock Biscuits, Red. — Mix up sliced almonds, whites of eggs, and sugar as directed in the recipe. Rock Biscuits, and colour with a little cochineal. Make the preparation into biscuits as already directed, and bake in a very slack oven. The orange-peel may be omitted. Rock, Brighton {see Brighton Rock). Rock Cakes.—No. l. Whisk three whole eggs till light. Mix with them half a pound of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of floui", and a table-spoonful of currants.^ Beat all thoroughly together, drop the dough in lumps upon a buttered tin, and with a fork make them look as rough as possible. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven, and when thoy are done enough store them in a tin canister till wanted for use. No. 2. Boat four ounces of butter to cream. Add four ounces of sugar, two woll-whisked eggs, a pound of flour, and a handful of currants, picked and dried. Boat tho mixture thoroughly, and bake in smaU cakes as above. No. 3 (very plain). Rub a littlo buttor or dripping into a pound of flour. Add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of baking