SPI SPI may settle at the bottom, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiUng water slightly salted as will keep it from burning. Keep it boiling till it is tender, and press it xmdor the water occasionally with a wooden spoon. Drain it well; carefully pick away any stalks or fibi'o that may still remain in it, and rub it tlirough a coarse sieve. I'ut the pulp into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter and a little pepper and salt, and stii- it briskly over the lire till it is quite hot. Add a spoonful or two of sauce, and lot it remain on the tiro, siining all the time, for five minutes. Serve very hot, and garnish with fi-ied sippets, or pile it in the centre of a dijh, and place lamb or mutton cutlets on end round it, the long bones inclining towards each other. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Spinach Sauce, for Boiled Fowls, &C.—Wash the spinach in two or three waters. Pick the leaves from' the stalks, drain it, and stew it with as much water only as will keep it fi-om burning. Squeeze the moisture from it, and beat it with a wooden spoon tiU smooth. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, piit in the spinach, and stir it till it is quite hot and dry. Add pepper and salt and as much boiling milk as will make the sauce of the con- sistency of thick cream. Stir till smooth, and serve very hot. Time to boil the spinach, about ten minutes. Spinach Soup.—Wash some freshly- gathered young spiaach leaves. Shred finely as many as will fill a large basin, and put with them a lettuce, also finely shred, and two or three leaves of sorrel. Throw them into boiling water, and let them boil quickly for five or six minutes. Drain them, put them into plenty of cold water to preserve the colour, and squeeze the moisture from them. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan. Mix it smoothly with a heaped table-spoonful of flour; add the vege- tables gradually, and when they are roughly blended with the water and floiu-, pour in, Httle by little, two quarts of boiling water or vege- table stock. Boil all gently together for a quarter of an hour. Put in, o£E the fire, a gill of boiling milk or cream, and pepper and salt, if required, and serve very hot. Time, about an hour. Spinach Soup (another way).—Prepare the spinach as recommended in the article Spinach, Dressed; boil it for about six or seven minutes, press the water out, put it in a stewpan with some butter, a little flour, a small onion, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Fry on the gtove for a short time, then add a little good stock, and let the soup simmer slowly for about twenty minutes. Pass it through a fine hair sieve, put it back into the stewpan, add a small pat of butter, a piece of glaze, and a little sugar and salt. Let the soup boU, then serve with small croutons of fried bread. Spinach Soup (a la Fran9aise).—Make as much clear stock as will be needed, and put it boiling hot into the tureen. Have ready some spinach bbiled in the usual way. Press this tiU quite drj', season with pepper and sfilt, }in(l i^iake it into balls j/he size of a wahiut. Gently and carefully slip these into the golden colour(!d stock. Tht; contrasting eolours in the soup will have a very good ajipearance. Spinach Soup (a maigre soup).—Tak.- ch(,pi).,.d spinach to fill a large liowl, a lettuce and two leaves of sorrel; fry th<;ni in butter until browned, put them in a saucepan with three pints of boiling water, also an onion stuck round with cloves, a very stale French roll sliced, and some bLanched and shred pistachio kernels. Let all simmer together. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with a little wine and the juice of a lemon, and add to the broth when strained. Serve with a toasted French roll in the centre of the dish, and garnish with poached egg and scalded spinach. Spinach Soup (a maigre soup—another way).—Put six oimces of butter in a stewpan; when browned, throw in three sliced onions, three heads of celery, two handf uls of spinach, some cabbage, thi-ee turnips, three cabbage- lettuces, a bunch of parsley, a little water, and season with white pepper and salt to taste. Stew all together gently for half an hour, then add two quarts of water. Simmer till the rooti-: are tender, when any portion, or the wh'olc, may be taken out. Put in the crust of a French roll, and serve. Spinach, To Serve.—This vegetable must be washed thoroughly in several waters to free it from grit. To do this lift it out of the water in both hands a small quantity at a time. The stalk must be pulled from each leaf before boiling. Put the prepared spinach into an empty saucepan, sprinkle a little salt over it, and stir it constantly to prevent burning. Boi 1 the spinach till it becomes tender. Place the boiled spinach on a colander or sieve, press it, chop it on a clean board, put it into a sauce- pan, add butter and broth—taking care, how- ever, not to thin it too much with the broth— and taste whether it is salt enough. Stir it over the fire till the liquid is absorbed, pile on a hot dish, and serve. Half an oimce of butter and one table-spoonful of cream or broth, will be enough for one pound of spinach. If cream a day old is to be obtained, we may finally in- corporate a little flour with it, and add the whole to the spinach. To embellish this dish, cut milk bread into slices, forming the crust into points, fry in butter till yellow, prepare poached eggs, and serve the spinach, placing round it first an egg and then a crust alter- nately, sprinkling bread-crumbs over the vege- table itself. Spinach with Cream.—Boil and drain two pounds of spinach in the usual way. Press it between two plates to free it thoroughly from moisture, and heat it in a clean saucepan with a little pepper and salt and a small lump of butter. When it is dry, add very gradually two table-spoonfuls of boiling cream, and siin- mei it gently for five minutes. Serve very hot. If liked, gravy may be substituted for the cream. Time to boil the spinach, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Spinach with Cream (another way)— Blancli and |)n ])are it in the usual way, only uw;