( 986 ) TON TON small jars, cover it about a quarter of an inch deep with clarifiod huttor, multod drip])ing, or melted suet, aud let it staud three or four hours before it is used. A sniaUur proportion of butter will bo required if a little of the fat of the tongue is used instead of loan only, but the butter must not bo entirely dispensed with. Some cooks season the meat by degrees with a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and us much grated nutmeg as will cover a throe- penny piece to each pound of tongue. Potted tongue is excellent when pounded with its weight in well-dressed cold chicken, cold veal, or cold partridge. Time—the tongue to be pounded till reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Tongue, Roasted. — Parboil a tongue that has been salted about ten days; roast, baste with red wine, and frost it at last with butter. Serve with a rich gravy and sweet sauce. Tongue, Rolled,—Take a large ox- tongue. If drj', soak it in plenty of cold water before dressing it; if fresh from the pickle, soak it for two or three hours only. Put it into a large stewpan with plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs; bring it slowly to the boil, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer gently until tender. Take off the skin—which will come off easily if the tongue is sufficiently di'essed—trim the roots, remove the bones, and press the tongue, fat inwards, into a round tin just large enough to hold it. Put a dish yvith. a weight upon it, and let it remain until cold. Turn it out, glaze it, or tie a napkin neatly round it, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Time, a large smoked tongue, four hours and a half; a small smoked tongue, three hours; a large unsmoked tongue, three hours and a half; a small one, two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for a breakfast, supper, or lun- cheon dish. Tongue Soup.—Take the liquor in which a tongue has been boiled. Strain and skim it, and put it into a stewpan with the trimmings of the tongue, and any bones or trimmings of fowl or veal that may be at hand, or, faihng these, two pennyworth of fresh bones. Bring it to the boil, and skim carefully, then let it simmer gently for three or four hours. At the end of that time put with it a large carrot, a turnip, an onion, five or six outer sticks of celery, and.a large pinch of cayenne, and let it simmer an hour longer. Strain it, and let it get cool, so that the fat may be entirely removed. Put it again upon the fire, and when it boils throw into it a large carrot and a large turnip, cut into dice, and two table-spoonfuls of the thin end of a dried tongue finely grated. Serve with toasted sippets. Time, three or four hours to boil the liquor with the bones. Probable cost, 2d. per quart, exclusive of the tongue. Sufficient, a quart for four people. Tongue, Sour (A German recipe).—Take a fresh tongue, and steep it for from two to four days in a pickle composed of a wine-glass- ful of vinegar, two or three slices of lemon, and either an onion, shallot, or garlic sliced, six cloves, two bay-lcives, and a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When about to diess it, wipe the tongue dry. Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in a stewpan, sprinkle in a good handful of bread-crumbs, and diodge in llour to brown. Mince a couple of rashers of bacon, and add them. Strain in the pickle. Add enough water or broth to thin the sauce moderately. Lay in the tongue, and simmer it till quite tender. Should the sauce not bo piquant enough, add vinegar or lemon-juice, a glassful of claret, and a little cayemie. When the tongue is peeled, pom- over it a little of the sauce, and serve the rest in a tureen. Tongue, Stewed.—Wash a tongue, and trim away the coarser pai-ts of the root. Rub it well with common salt and a small quantity of saltpetre, let it lie for a week, and turn and rub it every da}'. Boil in the usual way until it is tender. Pull off the skin, and put the tongue again into the ste%vi)an with part of the sti-ained liquor in which it was boiled, a pint of strong stock, a bunch of sweet hei'bs, two bay- leaves, and five or six outer sticks of celery. Let it simmer gentlj' for an hour. Lift out the herbs and the celery, and season the gravy with a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a Httle salt if necessary, two pounded cloves, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of lemon or walnuc pickle, and a glassful of white wine, and thicken with flour and butter. Serve the tongue on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over it, and send stewed mushrooms to table with it. If any gravy is left, it may be used advantageously for stews. Time, one hour to stew the tongue after it is peeled. Probable cost, tongue, 4s. 6d. to 6s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tongue, Stewed (another way).—Sim- mer the tongue for two hours in just enough water to cover it; peel it, and return it to the water, adding some pepper, mace, and cloves tied up in a piece of muslin. Cut some turnips and capers very small, slice some carrots, and add these also to the liquor vnth. half a pint of beef gravy, a wine-glassful of white wine, and a bimch of sweet herbs. Stew all together very gently for an hour and a half longer; take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken the gravy vnth flour worked into a small piece of butter. Tongue, To Serve a Cut.—A pretty dish may be made from a tongue which has been cut into and partially used. Cut the tongue into thin round slices, and arrange them in a circle round a dish, each piece overlapping the next. Ganiish the sides with a border of chopped parsley. If liked, the slices may be lightly glazed. Some cooks warm the slices in a iittle nicely-flavoured brown sauce, and serve them hot with the sauce poured over them. Tongue with Aspic Jelly.—Boil a tongue in the usual way. and either roll it, or fix it on a board till quite cold. Take a pint of the liquor in which it was boiled, perfectly free from fat and sediment, and juit it into a stewpan with a small sprig of thj-me, threo