POT POT ( 623 ) in the oven. Bake in a well-heated oven, and te ciu-eful to turn the souffle round two or three times, that it may be equally baked. Serve the moment it comes out of the oven, or it will fall. It should have risen to twice its original height. Time to bake, nearly half an hour. Pr(^able cost, Is., if made with milk. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Potato Fritters. —Bake three or four large potatoes. Burst them open, and scoop out the floury part with a spoon. Beat four ounces of this flour well, and mix with it a table-spoonful of thick cream, a table-spoonful of sherry or brandy, two table-spoonfuls of .sugar, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a little flavouring, and the well-beaten yolks of three and the whites of two eggs. Beat the batter for several minutes tmtil it is quite smooth. Make the lard or dripping hot in the frying- pan, and drop into it the mixture, a large table-spoonful at a time. Two or three table- ;spoonfuls can be fried together, but they must be kept apart. When the fritters are nicely bro^vned, drain them upon blotting-paper, serve ■them piled high on a white napkin, and sift powdered sugar thickly over them; send wine :sauce to table with them. Time to fry the fritters, from five to seven minutes. Pro- bable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six per- .sons. Potato Fritters (other ways).—Boil and l^eel the potatoes, grate or mash them, add four weU-beaten eggs, a little cream, chopped parsley, ■chives, salt, and spice, and mix the whole well together. Drop a tea-spoonful of this paste into a pan of boiling lard or butter, when it will swell into a light fritter. Or, take the mealy part of potatoes roasted under the ashes; beat it in a mortar with a little fine salt, a .spoonf ul of brandy, some fresh butter and cream. Mix the whole, adding gradually a well-beaten egg; shape the paste into small balls, which roll in flour, fry, and serve, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Potato Gripsy Pie. — Peel and slice thinly as many potatoes as will fill a moderate- sized pie-dish. Put them into it in layers, and over each layer sprinkle a little salt and pepper, and a very small portion of finely-minced onion. Pour half a cupful of water over the whole, and place little pieces of butter here and there on the top; cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. When the pie is done enough, pour a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup into it, through the hole in the top, before serving it. Time to bake, according to the size of the pie. Probable cost, potatoes, Id. to 2d. per pound. Potato, History of the.—The intro- duction of the potato as an article of diet forms a very interesting chapter in the history of the human race. It was brought into England by the colonists who were, in 1584, sent out by Queon Elizabeth, to " discover and plant new- countries not possessed by Christians." Thomas Ileriot, the mathematician, was one of these adventurers; he returned with the rest, after an expedition of two years, and it has been supposed that to him we are indebted for the potato. Sir Walter Raleigh, who headed the expedition of discovery to North America, in- troduced the potato into Ireland on his return from Virginia; but so little did he understand or care about this valuable root, that having planted and reared the plant on his estate at Youghal, in the county of Cork, and his gardener having gathered the " apples," as the tine fruit brought from abroad by his master was termed, Raleigh ordered them to be rooted out. The gardener obeyed, and in so doing found a large quantity of tubers, which saved the plants from destruction. It appears that the potato was brought into Southern Europe by a different channel, and at an earlier date than the introduction of the root from Virginia into this country. Clusius received it during his residence at Vienna, in 1596, from the Governor of Mons, in Hainault, who had procured it in the preceding year from Italy, under the name of Taratouffi. For some time after its introduction into this country the potato was planted in the gardens of the nobility as a curious exotic; in the reign of James I. it was considered a delicacy, being provided in small quantities for the queen's household, and at the price of 2s. per pound. It remained extremely scarce through the suc- ceeding reign and during the Commonwealth, and not until nearly a hundred years after the discovery of Virginia by Raleigh was its cul- tivation gradually spread. A letter from Mr. Buckland, a Somersetshii-e gentleman, to the Royal Society, in 1663, drew attention to its value as a preservative in case of famine; the consequence was that the Society did its best to encourage potato cultivation. But though their utility as articles of food was beginning to be recognised, potatoes bore no very high character. Books upon gardening published about the end of the seventeenth cen- tury, a hundred years after their introduction, speak rather slightingly of them. One author says, "They are much used in Ireland and America as bread, and may be propagated with advantage by poor people." " I do not hear that it hath been yet essayed," remarks another, " whether they may not be propagated in great quantities, for food for swine or other cattle." Even the famous EveljTi regarded them with no favour. " Plant potatoes," he says, writing in 1699, "in your worst ground. Take them up in November for winter spending; there will enough remain for a stock, though ever so exactly gathered." In The Complete Gardener, published in 1719, the well-known nurserymen, Loudon and Wise, completely ignore the potato; and in another work of the same period it is mentioned as inferior to radishes. Gradually, however, the excellent qualities of the potato became recognised, and the use of the tuber spread. But it was not till the middle of the eighteenth century that potatoes were generally known over the country. Since that time they have been extensively cultivated. Fifty years later no fewer than 1,700 acres were planted with potatoes in Essex alone for the use of the London market. In Scotland the cultivation of potatoes in gardens was very little understood till about 1740; as a plant for field gi'owth they received