PIK ( 668 ) PIK hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or live persons. Pike, Baked in Sour Cream (a Gcr- man rccipo).—Clean a pike weighing thi-co or four pounds, or, if preferred, take part of a largo fish, and cut the flesh into neat slices free from skin and bono. Mince two small onions vciy finely, and break up two bay-leaves into little pieces. Butter a piu-dish thickly, and lay in it the slices of fish, with tho onion and tlie bay- leaves distributed amongst them. Season with salt and cayenne, and pour half a pint of sour cream over tho fish. Bake in a moderato ovon, and when tho piko is three-parts done strew finely-grated bread-crambs thickly over it, and return it to the oven to colour. Lift tho slices carefully into a hot dish, and make u gravy by mixing a little stock or water, and a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, with the cream, ire, in the dish. Mix thoroughly. Pour the gravy round the fish, and serve very hot. Time to bake, about half an hoirr. Sufficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Pike, Boiled.—Wash, scale, and empty the pike, soak it for half an hour in vinegar and water, and skewer it with its tail in its mouth. Put it into a fish-kettle with as much very hot stock or water as will cover it, and add a table-spoonful of salt, a sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, and half a cupful of vinegar. Bring it to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer it gently until done enough. The time required for boiling will, of course, depend upon the size of the fish. Lift it out carefully, serve on a folded napkin, and send either Dutch, piquante, or caper sauce to table in a tureen. Time to boil a moderate-sized pike, half an hour. • Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Pike, Boiled (another way).—Take a pike weigiiing three or four pounds, which has been kept in a cool larder for two days. Cleanse it thoroughly, remove the gills, and skewer it in a ring, with its tail in its mouth. Put it in a wcll-tinned fish-kettle, cover with court bouillon {see Pike k la Gensvoise), and let it boil gently for forty minutes. Lift it from the fire, and leave it in the liquid until the next day. Half an hour before the pike is to be serA'cd, take it up carefully, drain it,' preserve the liquid, and clean the kettle thoroughly. Put the fish and the bouillon back into the pan, and stew gently for twenty minutes. Drain the fish, dish it on a napkin, and send caper sauce to table in a tureen. Pike dressed in this way may be eaten cold with Mayonnaise sauce. Of course, if desired, the pike may be boiled in court bouillon and served the same day, but the taste of a fish thus dressed is not to be compared with one which has been allowed to soak in tho liquid for several hours. Suf- ficient for two or thi-ee persons. Probable cost, uncertain. Pike, Cold, Re-dressed—Take the re- mains of a dressed pike, and cut the flesh into neat slices. Season with salt and cayenne, and fry in hot fat until the slices are lightly browned. Drain them from tho fat, and dish tueni neatly. Send to table on a hot dish, with a sauce prepared as follows ;—LIix smoothly in a stewpan two ounces of fresh butter with an ounce of flour. Add a Httle pepper and salt, tho eighth of a nutmeg grated, a desseit- spoonfid of strained lemon-juice, and a table- spoonful of shred parsley. Pour in half a pint of milk, and stir the sauce over the tire until it is on the point of boihng. Just before sending to table, stir half an ounce of butter into it until it is dissolved. Time, ten minutes to fry the slices. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold fish. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pike, Crimped.—Take a very fresh pike of a good size. Ckiansc and scale it, and cut it up as soon as possible after it is dead into slices about half an inch thick. Lay these in very cold spring water to crimp them. Put them into boiling salted water, and let them boil gently until they are done enough. Take them up immediately, and serve on a hot dish, with any of the sauces recommended in the recipe. Pike, Sauces for. SHces of pike crimped in this way may be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried as well as boiled. They will be found excellent. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pike, Dressing of.—The pike is at its best from September to March. Although it is frequently served boiled—and therefore direc- tions are here given for boiling it—it is much better baked or roasted. The roe should always be removed when the fish is cleaned, as it is a strong purgative. Pike is best for baldng and boiling when it weighs from three to eight pounds, and for frj'ing when it is quite small, weighing about two pounds. A pike which is too large to be dressed all at once may be divided. The head and tail may be baked or boiled, and the middle cut into thin shoes, crimped, and fried. Pike, Gravy for {see Gravy for Pike). Pike (Isaac Walton's mode of dressing).— '' First open yoiu- pike at the gills, and, if need be, cut also a little sht towards the belly. Out of these take his guts, and keep his liver, which you are to shred very smaU, with thjrme, sweet marjoram, and a Httle winter savorj-; to these put some pickled oysters and some ancho-\-ies, two or three, both these last whole, for the an- cho\^es will melt and the oysters should not; to these you must add also a pound of sweet butter, which you are to mix with the herbs that are shred, and let them all be well salted. If the pike be more than a yard long, then you may put into these herbs more than a pound, or if he be less, then less butter wiU suffice; these being thus mixed with a blade or two of mace, must be put into the pike's beUy; and then his beUy so sewed up as to keep all the butter in the belly, if it be possible; if not, then as much as you possibly can. But take not off the scales. Tlien you are to thrust tho spit through his mouth, out at his tail. And then take four, or five, or six sjilit sticks or very tliin laths, and a convenient quantity of tape or fillctir.g; tlicse laths arc t« bo tied round about the pike's body from his head to his t^ul.