RIO ( 746 ) RIO Rice Cups.—Sweeten a pint of milk, and flavour with cinnamon or lemon-rind. Mix two tiiblf-spoonfuls of ground rice smoothly w ith a little cold milk, add the well-beaten w hites of thiee eggs, and mix in the boiling milk. Stir the preparation over the fire until it is thick and smooth, then pour it into tea-cups which have been soaked in cold water. Turn tlic rice out of these when cold, and pour rttund the little shapes a custard made with the yolks of the eggs. Put a spoonful of bright-coloured jam or jelly upon each mould by way of ornament. If eaten cold, any fruit syrup may be used instead of sauce. Time, three or four minutes to boil the rice. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rice, Curried.—Slice an onion, fry it in hot fat till soft, and rub it through a sieve. Mix smoothly with the pulp a table-spoonful of cuiTy-powder, a table-spoonful of curry-paste, an oimce of butter, three table-spoonfuls of cream, and a little salt. Have ready half a pound of rice boiled as for curry. Put this into a saucepan with the prepared paste. Mix thoroughly and lightly, and serve very hot, piled high on a dish. In mixing the rice be care- ful to toss it lightly with two forks; to use a spoon would crush it. Macaroni may be curried in the same way. Time, eight or ten minutes to mix and beat the rice. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Custard.—Blanch six bitter almonds, and pound them to paste Avith two table-spoon- fuls of rose-water, or, failing this, with a little water, to keep them from oiling. Mix an ounce of ground rice smoothly with a spoonful of cold milk, and add a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, the almonds, and a little sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire imtil it is lukewarm, then add gradually the yolks of three eggs. Stir the custard again until it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Serve in cups with blanched and chopped almonds sprinkled on the top. Time to prepare, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d., with cream at Is. 6d. per pint. Sufficient for a little more than a pint and a half of custard. Rice Custard (another way).—Take a quart of milk and about one ounce of ground rice. Boil the milk with the ground rice until it thickens, and sweeten with sugar. Beat up four or six eggs, and add these to the prepara- tion when it has cooled a little; add also an ounce of sweet almonds pounded. Stir the custard over the fire till it is nearly boiling. Rice-flour Bread.—Take one pint of rico, and boil it soft ; add a pint of cream, and then three quarts of rice flour. Put the pre- paration to rise in a tin or earthen vessel till it has risen enough. Next divide it into three parts, and bake these like other bread into three large loaves ; or scald the flour, and when it is cold mix half whoat-flour or com. This bread should be raised with leaven in the usual way. {.See also Rice Bread.) Rice-flour Bread (another way).—Take one quart of rice-flour, make it into a stiff pap by wetting it witli hot water: not so hot, how- ever, a.s to make it lumpy. When the flour is Y* well wet, add boiling water, say two or throo quarts; stir continually till it boils; v/hcn it cools, put in half a pint of yeast and a little salt; knead in as much wheat-flour as will make it a proper dough for bread; put it to rise, and when risen add a little more wheat- flour. Let it stand for half an hour in a warm place, then bake. Rice-flour. Bread Adulterated with. —It is assertea that this adulteration is very frequentl)'^ practised. The purpose for which rice-flour is employed is to enable the bread to absorb and retain a larger quantity of water than it would otherwise do, and so cause it to weigh more. This iniquitous purpose is accom- plished through the absorbent power of rice for water. In a loaf adulterated with rice-flour the consumer is cheated of a certain amount of nutritious wheat farina, the place of which is supplied by water. Rice-flour Cakes.—Take a pint of soft- boiled rice and half a pint of milk-and-water ; add to this twelve spoonfuls of rice-flour. Divide the mixture into small cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Rice-flour for Thickening Soups and Sauces.—Mix pounded spices, salt and pepper, or sugar with rice-flour, and make it into a smooth paste by adding gradually as much cold liquor as is needed. Beat with the back of a wooden spoon till no lumps remain, and pour the liquor to be thickened gradually over it, boiling. Return the liquor to the sjiucepan, boil it again, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Two small table-spoonfuls of rice-flour will thicken a quart of soup. Rice-flour, or Ground Rice, to Make.—Wash any quantity of rice in several waters, drain, and pound it whilst damp to powder in a mortar, dry it, and pass it through a fine sieve. Rice-flour thus made at home, though perhaps superior to that offered for sale, yet involves a good deal of labour and trouble in its preparation. Rice-fl9ur Pufis.—Take a pint of flour, and add to it a tea-spoonful of salt and a pint of boiling water. Beat up four eggs, stir them into the mixture, put from two to three spoon- fuls of lard into a pan, make it boiling hot, and fry as in the case of common fritters. Rice-flour Soup.—Mix a quarter of a pound of rice-flour very smoothly with a cupful of nicely-seasoned veal stock. Pour over it a quart of the same stock boiling hot, and stir the soup over the fire for ten minutes after it boils. A quarter of a pint of cream or milk may bo added, if liked. When the cream is omitted, the addition of a dessert-spoonful of curry- powder and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice will improve this soup to the taste of many. Time, ten minutes to boil after the rice-flour is added. Rice Flummery. — Mix two table- spoonfuls of ground rice to a smootli paste with cold milk, and stir into it a pint of boiling milk which has been sweetened and flavoured with a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds bl-mchcd and pounded. Boil the mixture, stii-