( 636 ) PER stock, or water. Put with thorn a largo onion cut into slicos, four clovos, a buncsh of paraloy, a small sprig of thyino, a bay-loaf, two pinches of salt, and two pinches of popper. Simmer gently until the fish is done enough. In order to ascertain when this is the case, press the tiosh with the finger, when it should give way to tho touch. Lift out tho porch, and drain them. Strain the liquid in which they were stewed, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and boil it quickly ;for a few minutes. Stir into it a wine-glassful of claret, a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoouful of the essence of anchovy, a small pinch of cayenne, and a table-spoonful of chopped pars- ley. Skin the fish, preserve the fins, put them upon a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and put the fins at each side of them; serve very hot. Time to stew the perch, fifteen or twenty minutes, according to size. Probable cost un- certain, perch being seldom offered for sale. Sufiicient for two or three persons. Perch Stewed in Wine.—Like all fish of its kind, the perch, though very good when plainly dressed, is slightly insipid ; it is there- fore very often cooked, as the great Izaak Walton says, "with trouble and charges." When economy is not studied, the following will be found an excellent dish :—^^Take three medium- sized perch, wash, then scale and empty them, and take out the gills. Lay them in a stewpan, and just cover them with equal parts of sherry and stock, or, if preferred, with sherry only. Put with them a sliced onion, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a small clove of garlic, and a little pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently until they are sufficiently cooked. Drain them, and keep them hot until the sauce is made. Strain the liquor, put it into a stewpan, and mix gradually with it an ounce of flour which has been smoothly worked with an ounce of butter; let it boil, then add a large table-spoonful of chopped parsley and half an ounce of cold butter. Stir the sauce until the butter is dissolved. Take the whole of the skin off the perch, pour the sauce over them, and stick the red fins into the middle of the backs; serve as quickly as possible. Time, about a quarter of an hour to stew the perch. It is seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for two or three persons. Perch, Water Souchy.—This is the best way to dress porch. When they are plen- tiful, take the smallest fish, clean them, cut them into pieces, and boil slowly with some parsley- roots, and whole pepper, and salt, till a strong broth is obtained. Strain the broth through fine muslin, pick out the parsley-roots, slice them, and return thom to the strained liquor, in which the larger perch, previously crimped, are to be boiled. When about done, introduce a few bunches of parsley previously scalded in water to preserve their green colour. Serve in a deep dish, accompanied by slices of brown bread-and-butter. No s'auce is required, the broth, with the addition at table of pepper and salt, being sufficient. Perch, Water Souchy (nnother wny).— put into a siiucepan as much water as will barely cover tho fish. Throw into i t a little i)epper and salt, and a handful of parsley. Wash, clean, and scale tho fish. Take out the gills and cut off" the fins, but let the milt and liver remain inside. As soon as the parsley is soft, lay in tho fish. Put with it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and let it simmer gently until it is done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with the liquid in which it was cooked poured over it. If preferred, tho fish may bo filleted, and weak stock substituted for the water. Send brown bread and butter to table as an accompaniment. Time to boil, ten to twelve minutes. Perch is seldom offered for sale. Sufficient, one perch for one person. Perigord Pie.—This celebrated pie de- rives its name from Perigord, in France, which is a place celebrated for its truffles. It will be evident from this that truffles enter largely into its composition; and as they are both expensive and scarce, it will generally be found more satisfactory to purchase the pies which are imported than to endeavour to manufacture them at home. Nevertheless, as there may be some who prefer making to buying them, the following recipe is given :—Procure some fine truffles, and be particular to smell them, and reject any that are at all musty; one pound -will be required for three partridges. Soak them for two or three hours in fresh water, to loosen the earth about them, then rinse them weU, and scrub them with a hard brush. Peel them, mince the small and broken ones, and put the rest aside for a little while. Truss, as if for boiling, as many partridges as will be I'oquired for the size of the pie. Bone and lard them, and season them with a little salt, pepper, and powdered spice. Make some highly-seasoned forcemeat, according to the directions given for quenelles. Mix with it the minced truffles, and stuff the birds with whole truffles and a portion of the forcemeat. Make a raised crust {see Paste for Eaised Pies). Line it with shces of bacon and forcemeat. Place the birds in it, backs downmost, fill the vacant places with forcemeat, lay a slice of bacon on the top, put on the lid, ornament as fancy dictates, and bake in a well-heated oven. Perigord Pie (another way).—See Game Perigord Pie). Pirigueux Sauce.—Soak, rinse, and scrub four or five truffles. ]\Iince them finely, and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of good brown sauce, a piece of g-arlic the size of a pea, and a glassful of sheiTy or madeira. Simmer for ten minutes, then add two table- spoonfuls of the gravy from meat or half a tea- spoonful of Ijiebig's extract of meat, dissolved in a little boiling water, and half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy. Serve with roast chicken, &c. When no brown sauce is at hand it maybe easily made, as follows :—Work equal part's of butter and flour smoothly to- gether. Stir tho mixture over a gentle fire for three minutes, until it is brightly coloured, then add, graduallv, as much stock as will make it of tho consistencv of thick- cream. SoASon with popper and salt, and boil the siiuce for a minute or two, when it is ready for use. Time,