SAI. 8Ali ( 809 ) Vioried indefinitely. Make the sauce as follows: —Put the yolk of an egg, freed from white, into a basin, add popper and salt, and stir in very gradually about four ounces of oil. The oil should be dropped in at first, and well beaten between every addition. The success of the sauce depends upon this being done. After every eighth tea-spoonful of oil put in alter- nately a tea-spoonful of plain vinegar and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. The sauce should, when finished, have the appearance of very thick cream! Taste, and, if necessary, add further seasoning, and, if liked, a spoon- ful of chopped chervil, a spoonful of mus- tard, and a little anchovy. The seasoning ought as a rule to be rather high. Keep the sauce in a cool place till wanted, and do not dish the salmon until a short time before it is re- quired. Probable cost of salmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when plentiful. A mayonnaise by no means to be despised may be made from tinned salmon. When the fish is torn into flakes, three-quarters of a pound of salmon will make a dish sufficient for six persons. Salmon, Mould of (for supper or lun- cheon).—No. 1. Take a slice of dressed salmon weighing about a pound. Fry this in hot fat tUl it is lightly browned, then pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste with its weight in fine bread-crumbs which have been soaked in hot milk for ten minutes. Season the mixture rather highly with salt and pepper and a blade of mace powdered. Bind it together with the yolks of four weU-beaten eggs, press it into a buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven, or steam it as a pudding would be steamed. Turn it out carefully, and garnish the dish with crayfish, parsley, or button-mushrooms. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. No. 2. Butter a mould rather thickly, and fill it with slices of fresh salmon, freed from skin and bone, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Pack the slices as closely as possible, and fill the crevices with butter. Cover the mould closely, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling for an hour. Turn it out carefully, and garnish the dish with parsley. Probable cost, salmon, when plentiful, Is. to Is. 4d. per poimd. Salmon Moulded in Jelly.—Soak an ounce of gelatine in as much cold water as will cover it. When it has absorbed the water, put it into a saucepan with a pint of clear stock pleasantly flavoured. Stir the gelatine over the fire till it dissolves, then pour it out, and let it cool. Whisk the white of an egg with a table-spoonful of cold water and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Stir this briskly into the jelly, and when scum begins to form leave it untouched, and let it boil for ten minutes. Put it by the side of the fire to settle ten minutes longer, and then strain through a jelly-bag tiU it is clear and bright. Boil a pound and a quarter of salmon in very little water. As soon as it is done enough take it up, and when cold cut it into one-inch squares. Pour a little of the jelly into a mould, and arrange some of the pieces of salmon in this, remembering to put the skin and the pink flesh alternately to the outside of the mould. Let the jelly set, then 'A* put in another layer of salmon; cover this with jelly, and let it also set, and repeat until the mould is full. Turn the jelly out when it ia quite cold. Time, some hours to stifiien the jelly. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for », small breakfast or luncheon dish. Salmon Omelette.—For an omelette made with six eggs, take as much cold dressed salmon, freed from skin and bone, as would equal in bulk three hen's eggs. Tear this into flakes, and heat it gently in a saucepan with any remains there may be of lobster, shrimp, oyster, or anchovy sauce. If no such remains are at hand, a little melted butter must be made for the purpose. Season the ragout delicately with pepper, nutmeg, and lemon- juice, and be careful to let it be very thick. Prepare and fry the omelette in the usual way {see Omelette). Place the hot ragout in the centre, and finish it as in other cases. Work a spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley into a lump of butter. Place this in the centre of a hot dish, put the omelette upon it, and serve immediately. The butter melting beneath the omelette will make the only sauce required. When kippered salmon is used, the flakes of fish may be beaten up with the eggs and fried with the omelette. Time, a few minutes to heat the fish in the sauce. Pro- bable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Salmon on the Banks of the Rhine. —The following recipe is given by M. Dubois in his "Cosmopolitan Cookery:"—" Cook three pounds of good sauer kraut according to the usual rules. Take a good piece of a fresh Rhine salmon, which cut into slices (about thirty of which will be required); beat them slightly, and pare them into scallops. Season and place half of them on a plate. Put the other half into a buttered saute-pan. Boil in white wine about forty middling-sized crayfish; put by six of the finest, removing the tails and shells of the smallest ones to prepare some crayfish butter. At the same time blanch five dozen oysters. Prepare half a poimd of quenelle-forcemeat of pike, which finish with a piece of crayfish butter, and scooping it off with the spoon, mould four dozen middling-sized quenelles. Prepare a little light-brown roux ; dilute it by degrees with the oyster and crayfish liquor, as weU as with a Uttle fish-broth mixed with the trimmings and bones of the pike and salmon. Thicken the sauce, stirring it until boiling; remove it back, and let it simmer for half an hour. Skim off the fat, pass it through a tamis, reduce it, thicken with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and keep it in the bain-marie. A quarter of an hour before servang, bread-crumb the pickled scallops, and colour them on both sides with clarified butter. Fry the remainder on a sharp fire, drain them of the butter, add tho quenelles and poached oysters, as well as the crayfish tails. Mask these garnishes with the prepared sauce, and keep the ragout hot. When ready to serve, drain aU the moisture off the sauer kraut, thicken with two spoonfuls of sauce, pUe it upon a dish, leaving a hole in the centre, which fill with the ragout of fish, on the top of which sot the six crayfish put by, whole, but