( 1143 ) WIN WITT by keeping, but this is erroneous. If fermen- tation goes on, a little more sugar will be converted into alcohol, but this is not large, even in the case of effervescing wines. It is, therefore, a false notion that wine gets stronger by keeping. Strong wines undoubtedly keep best. Wines get altered by keeping, and they get weaker by keeping. They should not be kept in hot cellars, nor cold cellars, nor cellars with a changeable temperature. It appears that a uniform temperature of between 50° and 60° is the best for all kinds of wine. Wines are said to ripen sooner in warm cellars than in cold ones, and it is very certain that new wines may be made to assume the flavour of old ones by exposing them to high temperatures, and letting them cool again. This, however, belongs to the art of doctoring." The art of preserving wines is to prevent them from fretting, which is done by keeping them in the same degree of heat and careful working in a cellar where they wiU not be agitated by the motion of carriages passing. If persons wish to preserve the fine flavour of their wines, they ought on no account to permit any bacon, cheese, onions, pork, or cider in the wine cellars; for if there be anj'- disagreeable odour in the cellar, the wine will indubitably imbibe it; consequently, instead of being fra- grant and charming to the nose and palate, it ■svill bo extremely disagreeable. Wines, Wholesomeness of.—Wines may be resolved into two great divisions ; into those which are coloured, and commonly called red wines, and those which have a yellow tinge, more or less deep, termed white wines. This colouring matter is not derived from the juice, but from the husk of the grapes. If, therefore, the fermentation be not permitted to take place in contact with the husks, a colourless wine is in all cases produced. This colouring matter is highly astringent, and consequently the red wines differ from the white in their effects upon the stomach; and yet it is difficult to explain the well-known extent of this operation by the presence of so small a proportion of active matter. It must, however, be remem- bered that irritable stomachs are frequently impatient of astringent matter. Many persons are incapable of drinking port wine, in con- sequence of the heartburn it occasions; while others, OA the contrary, appear to derive advantage from the tonic influence of its syngency. This is a circumstance of idio- syncracy which no theory can explain. A popular writer remarks, " When my stomach is not in good temper, it generally desires to have red wine; but when in best health nothing affronts it more than to put port into it; and one of the first symptoms of its coming into adjustment is a wish for white wine. Every physician is practically aware of the caprice which the stomach displays in its morbid con- ditions ; but as a general rule it may be stated that white deserves a preference over red wines, because the latter being pressed and subjected to a stronger fenncntation to extract the colouring principle from the husk are neces- sarily more loaded with extractive and as- tringent matter; and as this remains in the stomach after the liquid portion of the wine is absorbed, it will bo liable to occasion dis- turbance." ■, ^, J. J., It is a fact not easily explained that the stomach is frequently outraged by a wine to which it has not been accustomed; and it is equally true that a mixture of different wines is a common source of indigestion. The cus- tom of mixing wine with water has its advan- tages as well as its evils. By dilution it frequently proves too little stimulant to the stomach, and runs into a state of acescency. An invalid is also thus liable to deceive him- self by taking niore wine than may be con- sistent with his welfare. Much, however, depends upon the quality of the wine taken; the lighter wines cannot requii-e dilution, while port is certainly rendered less injuiious by the admixture. Winged Game, Sauce for.—Take a quarter of a pint of the gravy which runs from the birds, put it into a saucepan, with a clove of garlic, a few peppercorns, a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, a tea-spoonful of salad-oil, and the thin rind of a quarter of a Seville orange cut into strips. Boil the gravy till it is pleasantly flavoured, skim and strain it, add a glassful of wine, and salt to taste, and serve. Time to boil the gravy, about quarter of an hour. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Winter, Butter Preserved for use in.—Work some good butter, which is neither strong nor rank, with cold water till it is perfectly free from milk. Mix thoroughly a quarter of a pound of powdered saltpetre with an equal quantity of powdered white sugar and half a pound of common salt. Work an ounce of this mixture into each pound of butter, pack it closely in stone jars, and fasten it down. If not exposed to the air, it will keep good for a long time. Winter Cheesecakes {see Cheesecakes, Winter). Winter Hotch Potch.—Soak three- quarters of a pound of di-ied green peas over- night, then boU them till tender, and pulp them through a sieve. Take from three to four pounds of the best end of the neck or loin of mutton, or of the thick flank of beef. Either cut the meat into neat pieces or ksep it whole, as preferred. Grate four caiTots, and cut as many turnips into small dice. Put them, with a few sticks of celery and a large onion, or a leek and a bunch of parsley, into a stewpan, pour over them about four quarts of water, and bring them gently to the boil. Put in the meat, add pepper and salt, and sinuner all gently together for about two hours. Add the pulped peas, boil quarter of an hour longer, and serve. If liked, a cabbage, finely shred, may be added to the other vegetables. The meat may either bo served with the soup or on a separate dish. If liked, it may be taken out when it is done enough, and put aside till it is to be served, then heated again in a little of the soup. Eice or pearl barley may be substituted for the peas. Time, two hours to stew the vegetables. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for eight or ten persons,