SOU sou ( 906 ) and love " sauce d la langue " too well to over- wino their soupH, &c. Tniflles and morula arc also sot down as a part of most recipos. Those in their green state have a very rich high flavour, and are delicious additions to some dishes, or sent up as a stow by themselves when they are fresh and fine; but in this state they are not served up half a dozen times in a year at the first tables in the kingdom. When dried they become mere "chips in pottfigo," and serve only to soak up good gravy—from which they take up more taste than they give. The art of composing a rich soup is so to proportion the several ingredients oiqie to another that no particular taste bo stronger than the rest, but to produce such a fine har- monious relish that the whole is delightful. This requires that judicious combination of the materials which constitute the chef d^oeu/vre of culinary science. In the first place, take care that the roots and herbs be perfectly well cleaned ; proportion the water to the quantity of meat and other ingredients—generally a pound of meat to a quart of water for soups, and double that quantity for gravies. If they stew gently, little more water need be put in at first than is expected at the end—for when the pot is covered quite close, and the fire gentle, very little is wasted. Gentle stewing is incomparably the best—the meat is more tender and the soup better flavoured. It is of the first importance that the cover of a soup-kettle should fit very close, or the broth will evaporate before you are aware of it. The most essential parts are soon evaporated by quick boiling, without any benefit, except to fatten the fortunate cook who inhales them. An evident proof that these exhalations possess the most restorative qualities is, that the cook, who in general is the least eater, is as gene- rally the fattest person in the family—from con- tinually being surrounded by the quintessence of all the food she dresses, whereof she sends to her master only the fibres and calcinations, who is consequently thin, gouty, and the victim of diseases arising from insufficient nourish- ment. It is not only the fibres of the meat which nourish us, but the juices they contain, and these are not only extracted, but exhaled, if it be boiled fast in an open vessel. A suc- culent soup can never be made but in a well- closed vessel, which preserves the nutritive parts by preventing their dissipation. This is a fact of which every intelligent person will soon perceive the importance. Place your soup-pot over a moderate fire, •which will make the water hot without causing it to boil, for at least half an hour. If the water boils immediately, it will not penetrate the meat and cleanse it from the clotted blood and other matters which ought to go off in scum; the meat will be hardened all over by violent heat, will shrink up as if it were scorched, and give hardly any gravy. On the contrary, by keeping the water a certain time heating without boil- ing, the meat swells, becomes tender, its fibres are dilated, and it yields a quantity of scum, which must be taken oflt as soon as it appears. It is not till after a good half hour's hot infusion that we may mend the tire and make the pot boil; still continue to remove the scum, and when no more appears, put in the vege- tables, &c., and a little sjdt. These will cause inoro scum to rise, which must be taken off iumiediately, then cover the pot very closely, and place it at a proper distance from the fire, where it will boil very gently, and equally, and by no means fast. By quick and strong boiling the voLitile and finest parts of the ingredients are evaporated, and fly ofl:" with the steam, and the wjarser parts are rendered soluble; so you lose the good and get the bad. Soups will generally take from three to six hours. Prepare your broths and soups the evening before you want them. This wiU give you more time to attend to the rest of your dinner the next day; and when the soup is cold the fat may be much more easily and completely removed from the surface of it; when you de- cant it, take care not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the vessel, which are so fine that they will escape through a sieve, or even through a tamis, which is the best strainer. The soups appear smoother and finer, and it is much easier cleaned than any sieve. If you strain it while it is hot, pass it through a clean tamis or napkin previously soaked in cold water—the coldness of this wiU coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure broth to pass through. The full flavour of the ingredients can only be extracted by very long and slow simmering, during which take care to prevent evaporation by covering the pot as close as possible. The best stew-pot is a " digester." Clear soups must be perfectly transparent, thickened soups about the consistence of rich cream; and remember that thickened soups require nearly double the quantity of seasoning. The piquance of spice, &c., is as much blunted by the flour and butter as the spirit of rum is by the addition of sugar and acid ; so they are less salubrious, without being more savour}', from the additional quantity of spice, &c., that is smuggled into the stomach. To thicken and give body to soups and sauces the following materials are used—they must be gi-adually mixed with the soup till thoroughly incorporated with it, and it should have at least half an hour's gentle simmering after; if it is at all lumpy, pass it through a tamis or a fine sieve—bread-raspings, bread, isinglass, potato-mucilage, fat-skimmings and flour, or flour and butter, or flour, barley, rice, or oatmeal and water rubbed well together. To their very rich gravies, &c., the French add the white meat of partridges, pigeons, or fowls, pounded to a pulp and rubbed through a sieve; a piece of beef which has been boiled to make broth pounded in like manner witli a bit of butter and flour, and gradually incorpoi-ated with the gravy or soup, will be found a siitisfac- tory substitute fur tliese more expensive articles. Moat from which broth has been made, and all its juic(^ has been extr\cted, is then excel- lently well prepared foi potting, and is qu te as good or better than that which has been baked tiU it is dry ; indeed, if it be pounded and sea- soned in the usual manner it will be an elegant