( C7G ) QUE QUE Bimmor f?ont]y for an hour. Tiiko thorn up unci pick olf all tlio white llosh from tho birds. Bliinch and pound a dozen sweet almonds and two bitter ones. Beat them to a paste in a mortar, with a little water to keep them Irom oihuf,'. Soak tho crumb of a penny roll m the broth, and when it is (luite moist, wrmg it in a eloth, to squeeze tlio moisture from It. Chop tiie llesli of the chickens, and pound It to a paste, with tho soaked roll, tho hurd-boilod yolks of two Ggg8» and the pounded aUnonds. Stir tiiis mixture into tho soup, and press the whole through a sieve. Heat it in a clean saucepan, and mix with it a pint and a half of thick cream whicli has been boilec separately. Stir it over tho lire till it boils, and if not sufficiently thick, add a little arrowroot. Many coolcs omit tho yolks of eggs altogetlier, and use arrowroot instead. If °no white stock is at hand, it may be made by putting into a saucepan three or fqur pounds of tho knuckle of veal which has been soaked and broken up, with four ounces of undressed lean ham, three onions, a carrot, a turnip, four or five outer sticks of celery, two sprigs of lemon th}Tne, a bunchof parsley, alargc'bladepfia^cc, half a tea-spoonful of peppercdrlis^, and tljree quarts of cold water. Bring the liofii3r-to the boil j skim carefully till no more scum/rises,. tHcn draw the saucepan to the side, and let it simmer gently and without ceasing until it is reduced to rather less than two quarts. Pour it out, and when it is stiff, clear the fat from the.top, lift it out free from sediment^ and it i^ ready for use. For many years this soup was con- stantly included in the royal bill of fare. Time to boil the chickens, one hour. Probable cost, varjdng with the price of the chickens. Queen's Tea Cakes.—Take the weight of two eggs in fresh butter and beat it to a cream. Mi.x with it half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar, which, before being crushed, has been rubbed upon the rind of a large lemon until the yellow part has been taken off, half a pound of dried flour, and a pinch of salt. Mix the diy ingredients thoroughly, and make them into a paste by mi.xing with them the two eggs well beaten, and a little rose-water, or, faihng this, cold water. Roll the paste out to the thickness of half an inch. Cut it out in rounds the size of a saucer, and bake in a moderate oven for from a quarter to half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for this quantity. Quenelles.—Quenelles are small balls made of deUcatc French forcemeat, composed of panada, calf s udder, and the flesh of veal, poultry, or fish, thoroughly pounded, then seasoned, and moistened with egg. They take their name from the meat of which they are composed. Great patience and care are required in making them, and these must be directed principally to pounding the ingredients thoroughly, fir.st separately, and afterwards together. Quenelles are served either in soups, or, with rich sauce, as a ragout, or they may be dipped in egg and bread-crumlis, fried in hot fat, and served as croquettes. WHicn the force- meat is made, it is always best to test a little piece before poaching or frying the whole of the preparation. To do this, a small ball should be moulded, and thrown into fast-boiling water If, when It IS taken out, tlie queuello ?« light, iH'm, and well seasoned, no alteration will ]„. necessarv. If it is too firm, a little water mav be added, and if not linn enough, the yolk Jf an egg will, in all probabihty, make it of the jiroper consistency. as a Garnish for Poultry — ilie lollowing is a ]jr(;tty and appetising dinh lor dinner or supper:—Stuff a large fowl with veal forcemeat, and roast it. Keep out a small quantity of the forcemeat, and make it up into quenelles, about the size of small walnut.-- 1 each these in gravy, and warm with them ug many slices of tongue as there are quenelles. 1 ut a border of mashed potatoes round a larg^- dish, and place on this, alternately, the ton-'uf and the quenelles. Put the roast fowl in Vi^, middle of the dish, and pour over it and the quenelles a quart of good white stock. Serve very hot. The appearance of the slices of tongue will be further improved if they are brushed over with a little glaze. Quenelles for Turtle Soup.—Take about a quarter of a pound of lean white veal, cut it into long slices, and scrape it with a knife till nothing but the fibre remains. Pound this to a smooth paste, and rub it through a A\Tre sieve upon a plate. Make it into a ball, and take its bul/c, not its weight, in panada (see Panada) and calf's udder. Jilany cooks sub- stitute fresh butter for the udder: when it is used a smaller proportion will be required. Pound these ingredients, and press them through a sieve, first separately and afterwards together; season the forcemeat with salt, pepper, and gi-atcd nutmeg, and add, gradually, the yolks of two and the white of one egg. ' After pounding the ingredients together, pass the whole again through a sieve, and before poach- ing the quenelles, test a little piece of the forcemeat by tlu'owing it into boiling water. If, when it is taken out, it is not sufficiently firm, add the yolk of another egg. [Mould it in balls of any size that may be preferred. Poach these in boiling water until they are sufficiently hard, drain them, when done enough, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup gently over them. The quenelles may be made as smaU as marbles or as large as eggs; the former size is generally preferred for soup. Time to jwach, from six to fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost. Is. 3d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a large tureen of soup. Quenelles for White and Clear Soups.—ilclt an ounce of butter in a stew- pan over a gentle fire. Beat it up with a little flour and some thick cream, as much as will make a smooth paste. Add two ounces of soiled macaroni, two ounces of grated parmcsar., and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Beat the mixture over the fire until it is smooth and firm, and leaves the sides of the s;iucopan with tlio spoon. Mould it into qucnellos with a tea-spoon which has been dijipod in hot water, and poacli these in boiling gravy till Ihoy arc done through. Lift them out with a skimmor, and put them into the tureen with the soup.