EWE ( ) SWE in halves and trim them neatly; brush thorn over with butter, and broil thorn over a clear i but very gentle fire. Have a plato with clariliod butter upon it near the gridiron, and keep dipping the sweetbreads in it, turning them frequently. When they are brightly browned all over they are done enough. Dish the slices in a circle, and send brown sauce flavoured with lemon-juice to table in a tureen. Time to stew the sweetbreads, about half an hour. Sweetbreads, Browned.—Soak, blanch, and stew the sweetbreads in as much good and nicely-flavoured stock as wiU barely cover them. AVhen they have simmered about half an hour, take them up, and put them into a round saucepan just large enough to hold them with a good slico of fresh butter which is melted and just beginning to brown. Turn the sweetbreads over and over till they are equally and brightly browned in every part. Keep them hot by the side of the stove. Thicken the stock in which they were boiled Avith brown thickening. Flavour with mush- room ketchup and lemon-juice, and add a table-spoonful of light wine. Place the sweet- "breads on a dish, pour the sauce over, and ganush with toasted sippets, brain cakes, force- meat balls, or any little adjuncts which are suitable, and can be easily procured. Probable cost of sweetbreads, Is. 6d. to 58. Sweetbreads, Cold, To Re-dress — Cut the cold sweetbreads into neat pieces. Stew them gently in strong brown gravy till they are quite hot thi-oughout; place them on a dish, pour the gravy over them, and garnish with fried sippets. Sweetbreads, Cotelettes of.—Procure the sweetbreads as fresh as possible. Soak them for an hour. Throw them into boiling water for five minutes, let them cool, then simmer them in rich, well-seasoned gravy. Leave them in the liquor till cold. Cut them into pieces an inch square, put them on skewers alternately with a little piece of bacon or a piece of ready-dressed calf's udder, all being made as nearly as possible of the same shape and size. Dip them twice into egg and bread- crumbs. Pat them into shape with a knife, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Send white or brown Italian sauce to table in a tureen. Sometimes bearded oysters are put upon the skewers with the sweetbreads and bacon. Time, half an hour to simmer the sweetbreads. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 5s. each. Sweetbreads, Croquettes of.—Take a cold dressed sweetbread, cut it into quarter- inch dice, and mix with it its bulk in mush- rooms which have been cut in the same way. Stir both together over a gentle fire in_ some very thick white sauce, and pour the mixture upon a dish. When quite cold, divide the mixture into portions of an equal size, roll these to the shape of balls or corks, dip them in oo-c beaten up with pepper, salt, and oil, and roU them in bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat tiU they are crisp and Hghtly browned, drain them thoroughly, serve on a hot napkin and garnish with parsley. Tune, ten minutes to frj' the croquettes. Sweetbreads, Croquettes of (another way).—Take a cold drosiicd sweetbread, cut it up into small pieces, and mix with it liulf its weight in finely-grated bread-crumbs. Season the mixture with salt, cayenne, grated lemon- rind, and grated nutmeg. Put it into a sauce- pan with as much cream or milk as will moisten the crumbs, and stir briskly over a clear fiie for ten minutes. Spread the preparation on a dish, and let it get quite cold. Form it into equal- sized portions, roll these to the shape of corks or balls, dij) them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are biightly browned. Drain them before the fire, and sei-ve as before. Time, ten minutes to fry the cro- quettes. Sweetbreads, Cutlets of.—Soak and blanch two or more fine fresh sweetbreads in the usual way. Let them simmer in nicely- flavoured stock for half an hour, and let them cool in the liquor. Drain and dry them in a cloth, and cut them into slices an inch and a quarter across. Dip them into beaten egg and seasoned bread-crumbs, then into clarified butter, and again into bread-crumbs. Pat them into shape, and fry them in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them, pile them on a dish, and pour round, but not upon them, good brown gravy flavoured with mushroom and lemon- juice, or with a glassful of white wine, or white sauce may be served with them. If liked the cutlets may be placed upon a little piece of fried bread of the same shape and size as they are, or slices may be cut from a dressed tongue, and these may be egged, breaded, and fried like the slices of sweetbread. When the latter plan is- adopted, the sweetbread cutlets should be laid upon the slices of tongue. Time to frj- the cutlets, three or four minutes. Sweetbreads, Cutlets of, Pricaa- geed.—Prepare and fry the cutlets according to the directions that have been already given. Thicken a small quantity of nicely-seasoned gravy with roirx or brown thickening. Flavour it with mushroom ketchup and lemon-juice, and add a table-spoonful of sheny or madeira. Put in the fried slices, let them simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve altogether on a dish. Sweetbreads, Fried.—Soak the sweet- breads for an hour, plunge them into boiling water for five minutes, and throw them into cold water till cool. Cut them in slices, egg and bread-crumb them, dip them in clanfied butter, bread them again, and fry in plenty of hot fat tiU they are brightly brownc^d on both sides. Drain them, and then dish on toast, pouring cucumber sauce or maitre d'hotel sauce upon them. Time to fr>' the slices, about ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 5s. each. Sweetbreads, Fried, Simple Me- thod.—Soak, blanch, and cool the sweet- breads. Dry them, cut them in slices, and dredge flour" upon them. Fry them m hot fat till they are nicely browned, and pour good nicely-flavoured bro^vn gravy over them, i his is one of the most simple methods of dressing