SHB ( 870 ) 8HB asparagus have been boiled. When it has boilod rather loss than hiilf an hour, strain it; Bet it on the firo again with an ounco of Hour mixed in a littlo butter, and thinned with Horao of the wann liquor; when smooth, add it to the sauce ; lot it boil, and then put in the picked shrimps tmd aspai-agus, together with a tea- spoonful of pounded sugar, a little salt, and, if liked, grated nutmeg; give it a boil up. Put it into the centre of a dish upon thin slices of toasted broad, or lay fish roulettes round the dish. Lobsters and crabs may bo di-essod in like manner with a rice border round, and stowed cauliflower mixed with the lobsters. Shrimps and Prawns, Clioosing of. —These fish, when in perfection, afford a pleasant scent, are very firm, and their tails turn stiffly inwards. They have a bright colour, when fresh; but their tails grow limp, the brightness of their colour goes off, and they become pale and clammy, when stale. Shrimps, Boiled.—Shrimps under-boiled are very indigestible; over-boiled they are taste- less and unwholesome. The time which they take to boil depends upon the size. When they change colour, taste them, in order to ascertain whether or not they are sufficiently dressed. Shrimps are generally boiled in plain salt and water. M. Soyer recommends that a sprig of lemon thyme, a sprig of mint, and a bay-leaf should be boiled with them ; this is a matter of taste. Put from five to six oimces of salt in a gallon of water. Bring it to the boil, skim carefully, and when it is boiling quickly throw in the shrimps; or, better still, put them in a wire basket with a handle, place them in the water, and when done enough, lift them out. Drain the water well from them, and spread them out on a clean cloth to cool. Sometimes dwellers on the sea coast recommend that shrimps should be boiled in sea water; but their flavour is not then so good as when they are boiled in the usual way. Time to boil the shrimps, five to seven minutes, according to size. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimps, Buttered.—Pick a pint of fresh shrimps, and put them into a saucepan, with three-quarters of a pint of good stock and a spoonful of brown thickening, or, if preferred, with the same quantity of white sauce. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and simmer aU gently together till the shrimps are hot and tender. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time to simmer the shrimps, three minutes. Probable cost, shrimps, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Sufficient for three or four persons. Shrimps, Buttered.—FoUow the recipe for Prawns, Buttered. Shrimps (en Coquilles).—Take some co- quilles, or small silver shells, or failing these, BomesmaU shallow dishes. Butter them thickly; fill them with shrimps which have been cut up smaU, and stirred into thick white sauce flavoured with shrimp butter, bpnnkle fried and seasoned bread-crumbs over them, and heat them in the oven or before the lire. Serve the coquilloB oii a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Time, a few minutes to heat the propaiatioa. Shrimps, Forcemeat of {nee Forcemeat of Klirimps). Shrimps for Flavouring Fish Soups. —Shrimps pounded to paHte ana preHK(,d through a sieve may be added to almost all kinds of fish soup, and will greatly improve the flavour. Shrimp butter to answer the same purpose may be made of the shells of shiimps {see Shrimp Butter). Shrimps, Lobsters, and Crabs may all be prepared the same way. Boil them ac- cording to size over a brisk fire, with a handful of salt in the water, pepper, vinegar, parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, and chives. While boihng put a red-hot poker several times into the water to give them a fine colour; when done, let them remain in the liquor till cold, then take them out, drain them, and rub them with a little butter or oil; break the claws and spUt them through the Ijack. Shrimps. Potted. — Shell a quart of freshly-boUed shiimps. Throw the shells into a mortar with a little bruised lobster spawn, two ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful of ancho^'y essence, a pinch of grated nutmeg or pounded mace, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound it well, then put the mixture into a jar. Set this in a pan of boOing water, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot. Rub it through a sieve, mix the tails of the shrimps with the pulp, and let all get hot together. Press the mixture into small pots, and let it get cold. Melt a Uttle butter, and as soon as it begins to set, pour it over the preparation to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and keep the jars in a cool place till wanted. If more convenient, the lobster spawn may be omitted. Shrimps are generally potted in this way, but their delicate flavour is, I perhaps, better preserved when they are potted whole. Time to heat the seasoning, about ten minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. per pint. Shrimps, Potted (another way).—Boil the shrimps in plenty of salt and water. When cold, shell them, and season with white pepper, salt, and pounded mace and nutmeg. Then press them into the pots. Place them during ten minutes in a gentle oven; let them cool, and when cold pour over them clarified butter. Shrimps Potted Whole.—Put a pint of freshly-boiled and shelled shrimps mto a dish, and sprinkle over them half a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put an ounce of butter in httle pieces here and there upon them, and place the dish in a moderate oven till the butter is melted. Let the shrimps get cold. Press them into jars, and pour upon them but^ter which has been melted, and is just begimimg to set. Keep the jars in a cool place tiU wanted. Time to bake the shrimps, ten minutes. Shrimps, Stewed.-Shell as many freshly- boiled shrimps as will measure a pint when ' shelled. Bruise the hciids and shells, and boil them gentlv in a quarter of a pint of hght wnnc, a quarter of a pint of water, and a tea-8}K)onful of vinegar, with a seaeoniug of sail, cayenne,