SHE ( 863 ) SHE in slices, and serve as they are on a dish. Oamish with parsley, and send oil and vinegar to table with them. Sheep's Trotters, Stuffed. — Take some sheep's trotters, as in the recipe Sheep's Trotters, a la I'oulette, and stew them in the same manner, but do not let them be •overdone, as they are to be stuffed with a forcemeat, which could not be done in. the latter case. Introduce forcemeat for quenelles in the room of the bones. "When the trotters are well stuffed, put them between layers of bacon, and moisten them with a poele. Stew them for half an hour only, on account of the forcemeat. Drain them, and cover with a «auce well seasoned, either white or brown, according to taste. As they are to be served whole, when you bone them, mind you do not injure the skin, for they would not hold the forcemeat that you must put in. Observe that this dish is excellent, as well for the taste as for health. It is particularly good for weak stomachs. The sheep's trotters are very good likewise, when they have been done as above, fried in the following way:—When they are cold, add some of the sauce to them all round; then dip them in crumbs of bread, and in an omelet and crumbs again; fry them of a good colour, and serve under tomato sauce. Sheep's Trotters with Cucumber.— Take two "gang" of sheep's trotters, and boil them till tender. Let them get cold, and divide each one into three pieces. Boil them again to make them hot. Take the skin oflE one large or two small cucumbers. Cut it into dice, and put it into a basin with a table-spoonful of salt and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Let it lie for an hour, drain it, and put it into a saucepan -with two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, a bunch of parsley, two or three young onions, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, and, if liked, a piece of garlic the size of a pea. Simmer these ingredients very gently for about half an hour. Pour off the butter, and in its place put a spoonful or two of white sauce, or, failing this, of broth thickened with flour. Simmer a few minutes longer, add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, and stir the sauce tiU it thickens, but on no account allow it to boil. Add a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, put the trotters on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Time to make the sauce, one hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Shell Fish, Buisson or Thicket of (a pretty supper dish).—Four lobsters, a pint of crayfish, and a pint of prawns are needed for this dish. Take a stale loaf of bread, trim away the crust, and cut the crumb to a square block. Hang a lobster on each side of this, with the tail resting on the top of the block and the head in the dish; cover the empty spaces with parsley, and lay crayfish and prawns upon the parsley. Put prawns and parsley round the buisson, and fasten three or four crayfish on the top of it with silver skewers. Shell-Fish, Edible.—The chief of these is the oyster—full particulars regarding which will be foimd under the heading Oyster. It may be observed here that oysters are more diges- tible uncooked than cooked, and more palatable with lemon-juice than vinegar. Both humanity and good taste dictate that they should be eaten as quickly as possible after they are opened. The Scallop {Pecten mazimus) is an edible shell-fish not to be despised. Broiled and stuffed with forcemeat, and served in its own shells, it not only forms an ornament to the table, but a pleasing variety among the fish. I Every one knows the sheU of this fish, which used to be worn on the hat or coat of pilgrims I as a mark that they had crossed the sea for the purpose of pajdng their devotions in the Holy Land. Scallops lie at the bottom of deep water in beds, from which they are dredged up. The Mussel [Mytilus edulis) is another of the mollusca that furnish a quota of food for the population of these islands. It is not often met with on the tables of the rich, but it is to be seen in the London markets and in the I streets where people partake of such luxuries on foot. It was estimated by Professor Forbes that no less than four himdi-ed thousand mus- sels were consumed annually in Edinburgh. They are not so easily digested as oysters, an(? are generally cooked before being eaten. At times the common mussel is poisonous This poisonous effect has been attributed to the presence of copper, and in some instances this metal has been detected in the fish which have caused symptoms of poisoning; in other cases, however, chemistry can give no further expla- nation of the catastrophe than that " it is pro- bable that there is an animal poison present." The symptoms produced by mussel-poisoning are described by Dr. Taylor as uneasiness and sense of weight at the pit of the stomach, numb- ness of the extremities, heat and constriction in the mouth and throat, thirst, cramps; or with swelling of the eyelids, heat and itching of the skin, with nettle-rash eruption; also vomiting and diarrhoea, with colic. Emetics, followed by sal volatile or stimulants, would be appro- priate treatment. Before using mussels, let them lie for some hoiu-s in cold water. Scatter in the water a table-spoonful of oatmeal; put them into a saucepan without water, and when the shells are well opened the mussels are done. Serve hot; eat with vinegar and pepper and bread and butter. A side-dish of mussels may be made in this way:—Remove the shells, fry the fish in butter mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Serve witli lemon and brown bread and butter. "Another bivalve," says Dr. Lancaster, " sometimes eaten by the inhabitants of our coasts is the Razor-Fish {Solcn maximus). This creature would be interesting enough to us if it were not eaten, on account of its long, slightly-curved, and tnmcatcd shells, which resemble the blade of a razor. It is not un- common on our sandj^ shores, where it lives buried in the sand. It is not difficult to find, as above the spot into which it has retired it leaves an impression of two holes united, something like a keyhole. It is, however, alniost