( 1036 ) VEA VEA and let its contents simmer gontly until the ' carrot is tender, when the meal also will ]m Bulliciontly done. Tut the ('hop on a disli, gav- nish with the carrots, strain the gi-avy over all, and serve very hot. Time to simmer the chop, about an hour. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Sufficient for one person. Veal Chops broiled in Paper.—Take the cliops from the neck, remove the chino- bone, gristle, and skin, and fry gently in a little butter. Prepare for each chop a piece of doubled stiff white paper sufficiently large to lejive a margin an inch and a half wide round the chop. Butter this well, lay on it a tliin slice of fat bacon, a spoonful of thick white sauce, the cutlet, another spoonful of sauce, and a second slice of bacon ; double down the edges securely. Lay the chops on a gridiron, and place this at a considerable height above a clear fire. Let them broil gently, and turn frequently. Serve on a hot dish in the papers. Garnish with sliced lemon. Time to broil, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds of chops for four persons. Veal, Chump of, Stewed.—Take the chump end of a loin of veal. Bone it, and tie it in shape with tape. The butcher will bone it if desired. Put it into a stewpan, and pour a half-pint of veal stock upon it. Boil this quickly till it begins to thicken, draw it back, and let it acquire a little colour; then pour over it a quart of nicely-flavoured stock and a glass- ful of light'wine, and let it simmer very gently till the meat is tender. A quarter of an hour before it is to be served take it up, drain it, and put it in the oven. Strain the liquor, boil quickly till it is reduced to half glaze, then baste the meat with it until it looks bright and glossy. Put it on a dish, and garnish with glazed carrots, or onions, or with boiled cauli- flowers. Tomatoes, mushrooms, or any kind of dressed vegetables may be served with this dish, and brown sauce, Italian sauce, bechamel, tomato sauce, &c. may be sent to table with it. Time to simmer the veal, an hour and a half, rather more. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Veal, Cold, Baked.—Take a quarter of a pound of cold roast veal free from slrin and gristle. Mince it finely, and with it two or three slices of bacon. Add the bulk of the mince in finely-grated bread-crumbs, together with a little salt and cayenne, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-rind, and a pinch of pounded mace. Mix these ingredients tho- roughly, stir them into a cupful of veal gl'a^'y, add two well-beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a small buttered dish. Bake in a weU- heated oven, and serve with gravy in a tureen. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 4d. Sufficient for two persons. Veal, Cold, Hashed.—Take about one pound of cold veal, and cut the lean part into thin slices, free from skin and gristle. Season these with a little salt and pepper, and dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon them. Mince a moderate-sized onion finely. Put it in a sauce- pan with the bones, skin, and trimmings of the veal, and any flavouring ingredients that may lie chosen ; cover all witli stock or water, and simmer the gravy gently for an hour. Strain it, pour it back into the saucepan, and put into it the pieces of veal. Let them simmer in it till thoy are tender, but without boiling. Add a toa-spooniiil of vinegar or bmion-juice. Place the veal on a dish. Garnish with toasted sippets and a little fried bacon. Poiu- the gravy roimd the veal, and serve the hash very liot. Time, about an hour to simmer the meat. Pro- bable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat and bacon. Sufficient for three or four j^orsons. Veal, Cold^ Minced Plainly.—Take one pound of cold veal, free it from the bone, skin, and almost entirely from fat; cut it into small pieces with a sharp knife, and afterwards mince it finely. Season with a little pejji>er and salt, a pinch of pounded mace or grated nutmeg, and the rind of a quarter of a small lemon lightly grated; cover with a cloth, and leave it in a cool place till wanted. Break the bone of the veal, and put the pieces into a saucepan with the trimmings and skin, a quar- ter of the rind of a lemon, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a few pepper- corns. Poui- upon these ingredients a pint and a half of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and stew the gravy gently till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. ^Vhen they can be had, a slice of carrot, a stick of celery, an ounce of boiled or unboiled ham, or a little bacon-rind, may be stewed with the gravy. Strain it into a bowl, and when cold free it entirely from fat. . Moisten the mince tho roughly with it. Melt a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan. Mix smoothly with it a dessert- spoonful of flour and about two table-spoonfuls of thick cream or milk. Stir the mince into this, and let it get thoroughly hot by the side of the fire, but on no account allow it to boil. Pour the preparation into a dish, garnish with toasted sippets, and serve very hot. A few thin rashers of fried bacon may be served as an accompaniment. Time, about two hours to simmer the gravy ; twenty minutes to heat the mince. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal, Cold, Minced with Mush- rooms or Oysters.—Take a pound of cold dressed veal, and trim away the gristle and the brown edges. A little fat may be added or not; this is a matter of taste. Mince the meat finely, season with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, and heat it—without letting it reach the point of boiling—in a pint of rich sauce. Stir into the sauce at the moment of serving half a pint of mushrooms stewed till tender with a slice of butter and minced. Turn the prepara- tion on a dish, and garnish with fried sippets If liked, a dozen or more oysters may be used instead of the mushrooms. They should be bearded and put into the mince a quarter of a minute before it is taken from the fire, rhe oyster broth should, of course, be added. Time, tiU thoroughly hot. The mince should be very slowly heated. Veal, Cold, To Ragoat.-Cut the white part of the cold veal into small round cutlets about the third of an inch thick, and free from