TIM TIM ( 969 ) judiciously used, it is apt to impart a bitter tiiste to any preparation to which it is added in too large quantities. THTJIE. Timbale for Macaroni, &c. — The paste for a hot timbale should be a little more delicate than for a cold pie; therefore put more butter into it. Take a pound of flour, a little more than half a pound of butter, two yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt. Work this with half a glassful of water, making the jjaste as smooth as possible ; proceed then as follows :— Butter a plain mould all over well, decorate the bottom a little and the sides by using some of the same paste and adding some pounded sugar; the paste will take a browner colour, and will add to the appearance of the tim- bales. Spread the paste over a dresser, cut a piece the size of the bottom of the mould (using the mould to measure with), and cover the bottom of the mould and all the decorations without disturbing them; water the ornamented paste as above, then stick the other paste lightly over, and cut a bit to put all round over the decorated parts. Roll a little paste also to stick the whole together round the bottom, then fill the mould with beef suet chopped fine, and make a cover to it of the same length; put this into the oven for an hour, and when done empty it for use. It may be used for macaroni, fricassee, blanquettes of every kind, &c. &c. Timbale of Macaroni.—Put half a pound of the best tape macaroni in a stewpan with three pints of boiling water and a little pepper and salt. Let it simmer gently for twenty minutes, then drain it, put it back with half a pint of broth, and let it simmer until it will divide easily without being too soft. Cut it into short lengths of uniform size, and cover the inside of a thickly-buttered mould with it quite closely and neatly. Spread over the macaroni a little good forcemeat seasoned suitably to whatever is to constitute the con- tents of the timbale, and afterwards fill up the mould with a highly-seasoned mince of game or poultry. Moisten with good sauce, cover over the preparation, and let it simmer gently until done 2 F* enough. If liked, three or four small timtales may be made instead of one large one, and their appearance may be varied by placing a truffle in the centre of the mould so that it will be at the top when the timbale is turned out. These small timbales have a pretty appearance. A suitable sauce should be sent to table with them. Minced game of all kinds, minced sweet- breads, and minced ox palates are suitable for the interior of timbales. Time to simmer, nearly an hour. Probable cost, varying with the con- tents. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Timbale, Veal and Ham.—Make two pounds of good short pastry, such as would be suitable for meat pies, and with two-thirds of this line a well-buttered plain round mould. Cut three pounds of the fiUet of veal into pieces an inch square, and make three-quarters of a pound of good veal forcemeat. Fill the pie ! with alternate layers of the veal, thin rashers I of fat bacon, the forcemeat and dressed ham, I and season each layer separately and rather ' highly. Roll out the remainder of the paste, and cover the timbale. Press it down, and trim neatly. Roll out the trimmings, and stamp out leaves or any fancy shapes, and with them ' ornament the surface. Brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. About twenty minutes before the timbale is done, take ii out, and pour in through the hole at the top a little nicely-seasoned dissolved aspic jelly made of the bones and trimmings of the veal stewed down with a cow-heel. The veal will be much improved if it is larded with the bacon instead of having the latter simply laid upon it. If it should be preferred, any kind of nicely-sea- soned fricassee may be used instead of the veal and ham. Time to bake, from two to three hours. Probable cost, 7s. 6d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Timbales.—Timbales are Frencli dishes, so named from timbale, a metal cup, because they are generally made in plain moulds, cither round or oval. They are excellent and pretty, but difficult to make, as they require both care and practice to make them properly. They rather resemble our raised pies. The outer case may be constructed of short paste, macaroni, rice, or other substances, and they may be filled with any nicely-flavoured fricassee of fowl or game, or with fruit and sweetmeats. Two or three simple recipes are given here, which may be varied according to taste. Timbales of Rice with Fruit.—Wash a quarter of a pound of best Carolina rice, drain [ it on a hair sieve, and put it in a clean sauce- pan with a pint of cold new milk, a pinch of salt, and three or four large lumps of sugar -svhich have been rubbed upon the rind of a fresh lemon or a SeviUe orange to extract the flavour. Put the saucepan at the side of the fire that the rice may swell very slowly and gradually ; then stir it well, put it on the fire, add a lump of butter the size of a walnut, and let the rice boil gently until it has absorbed all the milk and IS so tender that it can be crushed to a smooth paste with the back of a wooden spoon. Unless it is nllowed to boil very gently and tiU it is quite dry it will not answer the