TIN ( 975 ) TIN No. 65, and boil till tender; peel it carefully, and pout over it this sauce:—Chop an onion fine, fry it in fat in a small frying-jmn, add a wine-glassful of vinegar, pepper and salt, and a little stock; boil five minutes, and add a little mushroom-ketchup. 67. Mince and Kalecannon. Mix equal proportions of weU-boUed, well- seasoned, and weU-mashed cabbage and pota- toes. Have ready a dish in which is a border of very hot minSe {see No. 35); pile the kalecannon ia the centre, mark with a three-pronged fork, and serve very hot. 68. Mutton with Onion Sauce. Stew some nicely-cut pieces of well-seasoned mutton in a very little water till quite hot through; put into the same pan two tea-cup- f uls of well-prepared onion sauce; then stir aU together, and serve. 69. Mutton with Celery Sauce. Thoroughly cleanse four heads of celery, slice them very thin, and put them in a stewpan with nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste; add two ounces of butter and a sliced onion; cover, and set on the stove to stew very gently without colouring. When tender, add four ounces of flour and one pint of milk; stir again over the fire till the sauce has boiled twenty minutes; rub through a colander, and pour over nicely- fried mutton laid in a dish. 70. Beef and Ham Rissoles. Mince equal parts of beef and bread, half the quantity of ham, and a fourth part of finely- chopped suet. Add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a well-beaten egg; mix all well together, and roll into balls ; flour well, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with thick brown gravy. 71. Shape with Macaroni. Boil some macaroni tender, cut it u,p into quarter of an inch lengths, stick them, hole out- wards, thickly all over a well-buttered plain round-topped basin; fiU the basin with mince No. 35, cover with a floured cloth, and boil half an hour; turn out, and serve with or ' without brown gravy. 72. Mutton Pie (a I'lrlandais). Cut nice pieces of mutton, lay them in a pie- dish, and season well. Take some stock, put in it six onions and eight potatoes, put the fid on, and set it to stew gently for half an hour; lift them into the pie-dish, boil the gravy down to the quantity required to fill the pie. Cover it with potato paste as in No. 32, and bake half an hour. Serve with a boat of gravy. 73. Mutton Pie with Apples. Proceed as for the above, and add to each layer of meat a layer of apples peeled and sliced; mix into the gravy some tomato sauce, cover with a pie-crust, bake half an hour or till the crust is done, and serve. 74. Mutton Pies (a la Windsor). Cut a pound of mutton into small pieces, season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, shal- lots, pepper and salt, and a little brown gravy, Ktir gently together; raise small pic-shapes with })ot-watcr crust, fill with the mixture, cover, and bake till the crust is done thorouglily. The following will be found a good method for making the crust:—Put one pound of flour in a basin, make a hollow, put half an ounce of salt and half a pint of boiling water in which four ounces of lard, butter, or Australian fat has been melted, pour it on boiling; mix together into a firm paste, kneading well, put in small lumps on a paste-board to cool. When just nicely warm take a lump and work it into the shape of pork pies—some people find it easier to work it up round a floured pot or wooden mould. 75. Small Pies Raised. Prepare a sufficient quantity of mince No. 31 to fiU the number of pies you require to make, also some hot-water crust (No. 74); raise small shapes the size of a threepenny veal pie, fill with the mince, cover, and bake till the crust is done. 76. Raised Pie. Cut into dice equal parts of ham, beef, and bacon, season well, and fill a raised pie-shape. Bake well, and when baked pour into the pie through a funnel a little melted jelly from the Australian meat well seasoned. Let the pie get cold before cutting it. 77. Patties. Prepare mince No. 31. Make some light paste, line patty pans, fill—but not too full— with mince, wet the edges and cover with paste, brush over with a beaten-up yolk of egg, and bake in a quick oven till the crust is done; pile up on a hot dish on a napkin, and garnish with smaU crisp bite of parsley. 78. Sausage Rolls. Make some light paste, roll out thin (about a quarter of an inch thick), cut into pieces five inches square, wet the edges, lay a skinned sausage in it just close enough to leave half an inch of paste beyond the sausage; fold over and pinch the edges neatly together, brush over with yolk of egg well beaten, and bake. 79. Baked Pie. Make two pounds of short paste, line a but- tered oblong tin mould, fill the pie with alter- nate layers of beef, mutton, bacon, and sliced apples, season between each layer with pepper and salt, chopped onion (boiled), and chopped sage-leaves; pour over it a Little good gra\y, cover with paste, cut it evenly round, mark it round with the paste - nippers, and after brushing over with egg bake till the crust is quite done. 80. German Fritters. To three-quarters of a pound of flour add two of butter dissolved in half a pint of beer (this should not be used till tepid), one tea- spoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of two eggs; mix together, pouring the beer in by degrees. Work well, set aside for an hour or so, and when about to add the whites whipped to a froth, fry as omelettes, and lay mince No. 31 or force- meat No. 16 in them ; fold over, and serve four or five on a dish, side by side, with a garnish of parsley. 81. Vol-AU-Vent. Ma,ke some ver^- light puff paste. Line a well-buttered fluted dish or tin, fill with the following mixture cooked over the fire till