PIG PIG addition of barloy-meal. Some consider the flesh a gi-eat delicacj-; others, however, hold it to be too luscious. It is very noui-ishing, but not so digestible as might be supposed. The price of a sucking-pig varies consider- ably with the season and the demand; they may be had sometimes for 5s. or 6s., at others 20s. or 25s. may be asked for them. The average cost is from 6s. to 9s. Pig, Sucking (a la rran9aise).—^Wipethe pig quite di-y inside and out, and stuff it with a ■forcemeat prepared as follows:—Shred half a pound of beef suet very finely, mix with it half a poimd of grated bread-crtmibs, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, eight sage- leaves minced, and a Little pepper and salt. Bind the mixture together with the weU-beaten yolks of two eggs and a table-spoonful of milk, if necessarj'. Sew up the slit securely, and roast the pig until it is three-parts cooked. Take it down, put it on one side, and cut it up into neat pieces. Place these in a stewpan, barely cover them with a little stock, and add a large Spanish onion finely minced, a dessert- spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and cayenne pepper, a bvmch of parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Stew these ingredients gently together for antovir. Strain the sauce, and thicken it with a dessert- spoonful of bi'own thickening, or, failing this, with half an ounce of butter rolled in flour; add -a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, with the stuffing made up into small balls. Stew a quarter of an liour longer, and serve the pig on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it. Probable cost of sucking-pig, 6s. to 98. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Pig, Sucking, Baked.—Prepare and stuff the pig exactly as for roasting. Brush it well in every part with beaten white of egg; it wiU then require no firrther basting, and the crackling will be perfectly crisp. Serve and dish it in the same way as roast pig, and with the same accompaniments. A sucking-pig is much more easily baked than roasted, and is, in the opinion of the majority of persons, quite as nice. Time to bake a throe weeks' old pig, ■an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 63. to 9s. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig, Sucking, Broiled (a la Tartare).^ l.ut the remams of a cold roast pig into neat slices, freed entirely from skin and gristle. Dip them mto clarified butter, and afterwards into highly-seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil them over a clear fire until they are brightly browned. Servethe sUces on a hot dish, with a sauce, made as follows, in a tureen:—Mince a moderate-sized onion very finely, and fry it in half an ounce ot butter until it is Hghtly bro^vned. Season rather highly with pepper, pour two table- spoonfuls of vinegar over it, and boil all to- gether for three minutes. Add a table-spoonful ot Hour mixed smoothly with half a pint of water, and half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract of moat. Boil these for a quarter of an nour. Stir m a table-spoonful of mixed mus- tard, a table-apoonf ul of Worcester sauce, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy. Serve very hot. When the shoulders of the pig are left untouched they ai-e excellent broiled whole in this way, and curry or tomato sauce may be served with them, instead of the above. Time, ten minutes to broil the slices j half an hour to make the sauce. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold pig, 8d. Sufficient for foui' or five persons. Pig, Sucking, Currant Sauce for (see Currant Sauce, &c.). Pig, Sucking (en Blanquette).—Cut the remains of a cold roast pig into neat pieces, freed entirely from skin and gristle, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and mix with it half an ounce of flour. Add half a dozen mushrooms cut into slices, and a bunch of parsley, and moisten the whole with half a pint of stock and a glassful of sherry. Simmer the sauce gently until it is considerably reduced, and of the consistency of thick creain, then strain, and put in the meat. When this is quite hot, without having boiled, stir into the sauce the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Stir this for a minute, and serve the meat on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pig, Sucking, Galantine of.—Scald and clean a sucking pig four or five weeks old; cut off its head, spKt it open, lay it flat, and bone it. Make a seasoning, by mincing a dozen sage- leaves very finely, and mixing with them two nutmegs finely grated, three blades of mace reduced to powder, and three table-spoonfuls of salt. Sprinkle the pig all over with this, roll it tightly, bind it securely with tape, and fasten it in a thin linen cloth. Biing to a boil as much veal stock, or, failing this, water, as will cover the pig, and put with it a dozen peppercorns, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Let the pig simmer in this until it is tender. Lift it out, and when it is cold remove the tape and the cloth. Let the pig lie until it is cold, when it is ready for serving. Piquant sauce should be sent to table with it. If. liked, the pig can be kept for a week in a pickle made of the liquor in which it was boiled, salted and flavoured with vinegar. Time to simmer, four hours or more, until the tape becomes loose. Probable cost of pig, 6s. to 9s. Suffi- cient for ten or twelve persons. Pig, Sucking, Galantine of (Superior). —^Scala and clean the pig, split it open, lay it flat upon a table, and bone it carefully. The head may be cut off, if liked: if left on it should not be boned. Make as much good veal stuffing as can be spread evenly and thinly over the pig. Place upon this, in layers, thin slices of tongue, hard-boiled eggs, truffles, fat bacon, and ham, and cover the whole with another layer of veal forcemeat. Eoll the pig tightly, so as not to displace the forcemeat, &c., bind it firmly with fillets of tape, cover with a soft cloth, and sew up securely. Boil as much nicely-seasoned stock as wiU. cover tlie pig, put with it, if liked, a glassful of sherry, and simmer gently until the tape becomes loose. Let the