RHXT ( 730 ; RHO ini'iisod in hot water, like tea, is UHcd amonp the iSiboriiius as an enlivening beverage. In largo (luantitioa it prodiicoH intoxieation, Homo- times of bo outrageous a kind as to amount to actual deliriuni. A century ago it was used by the natives as a euro for rlieuniatisin, and subsequent trials elsewhere have proved that it is not without advantage. B-hombo, or Rhombus.—The rhomho claimed tlui attention of the discriminating fish caters of Rome by the delicacy of its flesh, and few tish would have been i)reforred to it had it not been feared that it rendered digestion difficult. Some intrepid stomachs, however, greeted this dish -without much re- pugnance when presented to them, fried, and sprinkled with pepper, in the midst of a seasoning in which pepper, cinnamon, coriander, benzoin, wild marjoram, and rue, heightened by a little vinegar, were mixed with dates, honey, cooked wine and oil. This boiling sauce was poured over the rhombo, but not before it had been enriched with garum, which we had almost forgotten—that inevitable brine which the ancient cooking genius placed everywhere, and whose prodigious renown ought to have preserved it from oblivion. Rtiubarb.—Khubarb comes into season in the spring of the year, just as apples are going out, and before fresh fruit comes in. It is therefore a most useful production, and it is •appetising as well as wholesome, and is ex- cellent for purifying the blood. The pai-ts of the plant used are the footstalks, and when these are very young they require only to be wiped with a damp cloth, and afterwards cut into suitable lengths before being cooked. When the stalks are fully grown and thick, the ; sidn should be peeled off. Early forced rhubarb, BHUBARB or champagne rhubarb, as it is called, is cspcciallv prized for its beautiful colour. When rhubarb is grown in the garden this variety may be easily cultivated by placing an empty sugar cask over the plant at the begin- ning of winter. As rhubarb possesses the quality of imbibing the flavour of anything with which it is cooked, and imparting its own flavour very slightly, it is most useful for mixing with other and more ridily-flavourod fruits in making pies and puddings. Rhubarb and Bread Pudding.- JJulter a pie-disli thickly, and c(jv(;r the buttfjm with a layer of bread-crumljs half an inch tliick. Place upon tliis a layer of rhubarb washed and cut into one-inch lengths, and sprinkle some moist sugar over the fruit. Fil) the dish with alternate biyeis of fruit ano bread, and be careful that the sides of the dish are walled with bread-crumbs; let bread form the topmost layer. Lay three or four little pieces of butter here and tln;re on the top of the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven. When time is a consideration the liread may be freed from crust, and laid in the pie-dish in thin slices without being crumbled. Time, half an hour to one hour, according to size. When the rhubarb is soft the pudding is done. Probable cost of rhubarb, od. to 8d. per bundle. Rhubarb and Lemon Jam [*ee Lemon and Klmbarb Jam). Rhubarb and Orange J am.—With a pint of rhubarb skinned, cut small, and shaken down, put three oranges, and three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar. Peel the oranges, and cut half the rind into thin strips, as if it were to be made into marmalade. Pare the white pith from the oranges, and cut them into thin slices, carefully removing the pips. Put the cut-up oranges, the rhubarb, and the requisite quantity of sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil the jam over a moderate fire until a little will jelly when laid on a plate. Remove the scum as it rises, and stir the fruit to keep it from burning. Put the jam into jars, and when it is cold cover in the usual way. Time, three-quarters to one hour from the time the jam boils. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Rhubarb, Blanching of.—The advan- tage derived by blanching the stalks of rhubarb for culinary purposes are considerable. " They are twofold, namely, the desirable qualities of improved appearance and flavour, and a sa-vnng in the quantity of sugar necessary to render it agreeable to the palate, since the leaf-stalks, when blanched, are much less harsh than those grown under the full influence of light, in an open situation." Rhubarb may either be blanched by earthing up the roots early in spring, or by using earthen pots or covers, as in blanching seakale. Rhubarb, Compote of. — Champagne or forced rhubarb is much the best for this dish, so far as appearance is concerned. Wipe or wash, but do not peel the rhubarb, and cut it into three-inch lengths. For a pound of fruit boil a quarter of a pint of water with six ounces of loaf sugar for ten minutes, put in the rhubarb, and let it simmer very gently until it is tender without being in the least broken. Lift the pieces out carefully as they become done enough, and lay these in a glass dish. Boil the svrup for a minute or two, and pour it out to cool. Coloiu- with two or tlire(> drops of cochineal, and pour the fi>Tup over the fniit. This dish is an excellent nccompaniment to rice moulds or blancmange, and, owing to its bright