WIN ( 1140 ) WIJT clfiHtic, and, in the case of now corks, that thoy eliould be properly cut, and free from dofocts. After bottling, it is very desirable that the wine tthould stand for sumo time, to got the full benetit of the operation—generally speaking, for twelve months at least. During this period the bottle should be kept in a suitable store- house, in such a position that the wine may cover the corks, and should on no account bo moved. Ordiuai-y wines containing a small portion of alcohol are apt to fur if these pre- cautions are unheeded. Should the wine deposit any sediment after bottling (which it generally does), it will of course form on the under sidii, and care must be taken in moving the wine to prevent any admixture of the sediment there- with. Wines, Choice of .—The choice of wines, in lajdng in a stock, is a matter of considerable difficulty, particularly to the inexperienced. A habit of tiisting the superior wines will alone give the palate the power of discriminating minute differences in the aroma and bouquet of the choice kinds. But a very correct taste in wine is a rare quality ; and there is sometimes a good deal of pretension in passing a judgment upon them. The particular impression on the sense of taste is also liable to be affected by the state of bodily health at the time, or by the last substance taken into the mouth. Thus, wine after sweetmeats and fruits frequently tastes harsh; whereas after made dishes and cheese wines sometimes appear better than they really are. The first object to be considered, next to the taste, from which the purchaser must judge for himself, is whether the wine is pure and the genuine production of the country whose name it bears; and whether or not it is adul- terated with any foreign substance. To dis- tinguish this accurately, in many cases, requires great experience and a very nice palate. It is even said that few persons, except the maniifac- turers themselves, are judges sufficiently ex- perienced to distinguish and appreciate ■ the different growths of their own territory; and that even these cannot estimate properly the wines of another district. Another kind of ability necessary is to be able to distinguish the condi- tion of the wine: whether it is new, and whether it will keep or will be liable to change. Some wines may appear good that will not keep a year; and others that at first appear indifferent will im- prove so much by keeping as to be in the end excellent. Good wine is most frequently to be found among capitalists, who can afford to buy large quantities in favourable j^ears, and who can select in their stock that which is fittest for bottling at any j^articular time, not sending out any but what is fit for use, and who have a reputation to keep up. It is scarcely necessary to add that there are few articles of domestic consumption in which there are more frauds practised than in wine, or in which more money I may be thrown away for want of good ' management: to say nothing of the pleasure it I affords every one to place good wine before his - guests, or the danger of injuring their healths by offering them what is prejudicial. Wines, Diseases of.—By "diseases of wines " wo must understand those conditions in which winoB h»ive become bo altered and un- fitted for use as to have lost their distinct character. The chief disoascH are m follows: 1. The Turning of JViue.—Thitt is a disease which attacks young wine, and seemB to occur under special conditions id tlie weather. The colour grows darker, and tlie taste first dis- appears, and if the disi;a8e continues becomes disagreeable; the wine becomes turbid and acid. This disease arises from a decomposition of tartar. 2. The JRopineas of Wine.—Thiii disease con- sists in the formation of vegetable mucus from the sugar of the wine, and is known as mucous fermentation. The wines liable to this change are those which are deficient in tannic acid. 3. T/ie Bitterness of Wine.—In this we have a disease to which Burgimdy wines are specially liable. It appears to arise from a second fer- mentation, inasmuch as a large quantity of car- bonic acid is evolved. It has been ascribed by some to the foi-mation of citric ether, which is very bitter. The disease is caused by the sedi- ment, and is often put a stop to by drawing the wine off into other casks. 4. The Acidifying of Wine.—This depends upon the conversion of the alcohol into acetic acid, and may be nipped in the bud by adding alkahne carbonates; which, however, destroy the colour and affect the taste of the wine. 5. The Mouldiness of Wine.—In this disease mould-plants are produced on the surface of the wine. How and under what condition the mould is formed is uncertain ; all that is known is that the admission of air is favourable to the disease. Wines, Effervescing.—If wines are bottled before the fermentation is over, the carbonic acid is retained in the .wine, and what is called an "effervescing" wine is produced. Certain kinds of wine are more favourable than others to this process; and in all coimtiies effervescing wines are produced. In this coim- try we are most familiar with the effervescing wines of Fi'ance, which are generally known under the name of champagne. Hocks, mo- selles, and even red wines are treated thus; and, on the cork being removed from the bottle, the carbonic acid begins to escape, and gives them their sparkling effervescent character. When such wines contain much sugar, the fer- mentation ia the bottle is arrested before aU the sugar is consimied, and they are sweet effervescing wines. In other cases the sugar is all exhausted in producing the carbonic acid, and such wines are then said to be dry. Sparkling or effervescing wines are agreeable to the palate, and in the same way as bottled ales they some- times appear to assist the digestion of the food with which they are taken. In some cases, how- ever, there can be no doubt that they produce injmy. When new, they conimimicate the state of change in which they are to the contents of the stomach, and interfere with the healthy process of digestion. They are less liable to disagree when thoy are dry and contiiin but little sugar thiin when they contain mucli of this fiul)stance. The quantity of sugar varies in champagne from one Inmdred grains in the pint to considerably above an ounce.