POS POR ( G17 ) t)ie mixture for some minutes, pom; it into small buttered tins, and bake in a brisk oven from fifteen minutes to half an hour, according to the size of the tins. Probable cost, Is. lOd., exclusive of the sherrj'. Portuguese Cakes (another way).— Take half a pound of flour and the yolks of six eggs. Put these into a basin, and work with a spoon till frothy. Pound four ounces of almonds with the white of an egg, pass them through a sieve, add a pinch of orange-sugar, and dilute with the juice of four oranges. As soon as the cake-prepara- tion is frothy, add to it carefully four ounces of potato-flour. Ne.xt add the almonds and orange-juice, together with the six whipped whites of eggs. Pour the mixture on a baking- sheet with an up-standing border, the baking- sheet being buttered and covered with paper. Spread the mixtm-e in a layer one inch thick. Bake in a moderate oven. When the cake has cooled, face it on the top and mask on this side, first with a thin layer of apricot marmalade, and afterwards with a layer of orange-icing sugar. Divide the cake immediately into squares, and let the glaze dry. The orange- icing sugar is made by soaking the rind of two oranges in a giU of syrup, adding the juice of the fruit, sugar to make a stiff paste, and yellow colouring. This icing should be worked over the fire till warm. Portuguese Fritters.—Put half an inch of stick cinnamon and the rind of half a small lemon into a pint of milk. Let the liquid remain a little time till the milk is slightly flavoui-ed, then pour it, without straining it, into a saucepan, and put with it six ounces of best Carolina rice, two ounces of fi'esh butter, and a little sugar. Let it simmer very gently until the rice is quite tender and has absorbed aU the milk. Pour the preparation out, beat it well for two or three minutes, and stir into it the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. When it is a little cool, make it into balls about an inch and a half in diameter, and carefully introduce into the centre of each a small portion of orange marmalade. Brush the balls over with beaten egg, and dip them into finely-grated bread- crumbs. Put them into a wire frying-basket, and plunge them into as much hot fat as will quite cover them. Let them remain until they are lightly browned,- drain them carefully, and eerve piled on a napkin and covered with sifted sugar. Time to boil the rice, about three-quar- ters of an hour. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Suf- ficient for six or seven persons. Portuguese Pudding.—Boil half a pint of milk with three inches of thin lemon-rind. Stir into it, when boiling, three dessert-spoonfuls of ground rice which has been mixed smoothly with three table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the mixture over the fire for two minutes after it boils, then pour it out to cool. Add a little sugar, together with the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs well beaten. Pour the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, take out tiie pudding, and let it stand xmtil it is cold and stiff. Before serving, lay upon it a little apricot or any other fine jam! Time to bake, U* about three quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of the jam. Sufficient for a small dish. Portuguese Sauce (for fish).—Beat the yolks of two fresh eggs, and mix them with four ounces of butter and a table-spoonful of leraon- jmce. Put these ingredients into an earthen jar, and set this in a small saucepan of hot water. Put the pan on a slow fire, and beat the contents of the jar unceasingly until the sauce begins to thicken. Add a small quantity of water in order to make it of the consistence of thick cream. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Port Wine Jelly.—Put an ounce of best isinglass into a perfectly clean saucepan with half a pint of cold water, an inch of cinnamon, and a blade of mace. Stir over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved. Put with it an ounce of sugar and a pint of port. Strain through a jelly-bag, and put it in a cool place to set. This jelly is considered to be extremely nourishing for invalids. Time, one hour to prepare. Posset.—This is an old and popular domestic preparation for the sick, made with milk curdled by means of treacle, beer, and other articles. Posset, Ale.—Boil a pint of new milk with a slice of toasted bread. Pour a bottle of mild ale into a bowl, add sugar and spices to taste, then pour the boiling milk over it. A fine head should rise. Posset, Corn Flour (for a cold).—Mix a quarter of a pint of sherry gradually and smoothly with half an ounce of corn-flour. Add one ounce and a half of pure honey and two cloves, and put the mixture into a saucepan. Stir over a gentle fire for four or five minutes, strain, and drink the posset warm the last thing at night. Probable cost, 3d., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for one person. Posset, Pope's {see Pope's Posset). Posset, Sack.—Boil some cream and sweet biscuits grated; add sugar, cinnamon, and nut- meg. Warm some sherry; stir it into the cream. Then pour the whole quickly from one vessel to another until it is quite smooth. Eggs beat up in milk may be used instead of cream. Posset, Treacle (for a cold).—Boil half a pint of milk, and stir into it, as it is rising in the pan, one table-spoonful of good treacle. Let it boil until the curd separates, then strain it ofl:, and serve the posset very hot. A little water may be added if it is too sweet, and ch-y toast may be eaten with it. Time, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 2^d. Sufficient for one person. Posset, Treacle (another way).—Take half a pint of new milk, one wine-glassful of sherry or marsala. and one or two table-spoon- fuls of treacle. Heat these ingredients together in a clean saucepan till the milk coagulates. Tliis preparation—sometimes called treacle pos- set and sometimes molasses posset—is highly esteemed in some parts of tlio country as a