SAV ( 838 ) SAV 8orvo hot or cold. Tiiuo tcj dross, half iin hour, rrohiiblc cost, Id. or 2d. ouch. Savoury Cake.—Tuko two largo table- spoonfuls ot tino Hour, and mix thorn smoothly with four eggs, adding enough milk to muko the preparation of the consistency of cream. Stir well, and add salt to taste and some finoly- minced chives. Butter a shallow tin or dish, and bake till the cake is of a fine yellow. Savoury Custard for Invalids.—Mix a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour to a smooth paste with a little cold beef-tea, and tlien add gradually as much more beef-tea as will make the quantity up to half a pint. Stir the prepara- tion over the tire till it begins to thicken, pour it out, and serve. If prcfeiTcd, this custard may be made with any good broth instead of beef-tea. Time, five or six minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Sufficient for one person. Savoury Pie.—Butter a pie-dish very thickly, and cover the bottom with a layer of chopped mushrooms. Place upon these two ounces of tapioca which have been soaked for ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of water, and sprinkle over it a moderate-sized onion and two or three sage-leaves chopped small. Add three hard-boiled eggs, also chopped small, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Lay two oimces or more of butter broken into little pieces here and there on the surface, cover the dish with pastry, and bake in a well-heated oven. Wlien the pastry is done the pie will be done enough. Savoury Rice.—Put half a pound of rice into a saucepan with a slice of butter or drip- ping, a seasoning of salt and spice, and three pints of water. Simmer it gently till it is tender, drain it, pile it upon a hot dish, cover the surface with a layer of grated Cheshire cheese, and serve. Or boil half a pound of rice in three pints of water till tender. Season with pepper and salt, add a slice of dripping and two or three onions chopped small, stir the rice over the fire till the onions are tender, and serve in a hot dish. Or break three pounds of meat-bones into small pieces. Put these into a large stewpan, and pour over them five quarts of cold water. Bring the liquor gradually to the boil, skim carefully, draw the saucepan to the side, let its contents simmer gently for four hours, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. A small bunch of savoury herbs may be stewed with the stock for the last hour. Slice an onion, and cut up a quarter of a pound of vegetables, composed of equal portions of carrots, turnips, celery, &c. Fry these in butter, stirring them briskly over the fire till the onions begin to turn yellow, sprinkle over them a quarter of a pound of fine oatmeal, and pour the stock from the bones upon them. Add two ounces cf soaked rice, boil all gently together till this is tender. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Time, five hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Savoury Spirit, for Imparting a flavour of Herbs to Soups, Sauces, &C.—Take one ounce each of dried lemon- thj-me, sweet marjoram, sweet basil, and winter savory. Mix them, and put them into a stone jar with a quarter of an ounce of grated lemon- rmd, a quarter of an ounce of minced shallot and two drachms of l^ruised culery-seed. Pour oyer them a quart of fine proof spirit of any kmd, and lot tliom infuse for ten days. Strain the liquor, bottle closely, and store for use. If liked, vinegar can bo used instead of spirit, but it will not draw out the flavour of the herbs so well. Savoury Spirit for Imparting a flavour of Spice to Soups, Sauces, &C.—Mix thoroughly two ounces of powdered black pepper with one ounce of powdered allspice and half an ounce of grated nutme<'. Put the powdered mixture into a jar, and pour over it a quart of fine proof spirit. Let it infuse for ten days, then strain off the liquor, bottle closely, and store for use. If preferred, the powder may be prepared as follows:— Pound in a mortar a quarter of an ounce of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of grated nutmeg, two drachms of cayenne pepper, half an oimce of ground black pepper, half an ounce of grated lemon-rind, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, an ounce of dry salt, and half an ounce of French mustard. I'roceed as before. Savoury Toasts.—Savoury toasts may be served as relishes at breakfast or luncheon, or they may fill a comer at the dinner-table. They may be varied at pleasure, and if agree- ably flavoured, will constitute appetising trifles at small expense. To prepare them, cut some slices of crumb of bread haK an inch thick, toast them, butter thickly, and spread upon them any highly-seasoned savoury mixture. Put them into the oven to make them hot, and serve. Any cold ragout or stewed vege- tables heated in thick sauce, grated ham or , tongue beaten up over the fire with egg and ! cream till thick, truffles vi' mushrooms stewed in butter, seasoned, and minced, or any similar preparation, may be used to spread upon the toasts. Anchovies pounded may be used in this way also. They are prepared as fol- lows:—Wash and bone the ancho^'ies, mince finely, and pound them to paste in a mortar with a little piece of butter and a moderate quantity of cayenne. Work the whole to a smooth paste, spread it upon the buttered toast, and put it into a Dutch oven till it is quite hot. Savoy Biscuits.—Take twelve parts of sugar, seven parts of flour, and twelve paits of eggs, and add ground lemon-rind by way of flavouring. Bake in the usual way, and Eifler the biscuits have been a few minutes in the oven grate a little sugar over the top of them. 1 Savoy Biscuits, Cold.—Take a little more than half a pound of verj' fine dry flour, one pound of very dry pounded sugar, and fourteen or fifteen eggs, very fresh ; if the eggs are large, fourteen are sufficient. Rasp ovt r the sugar the peel of two lemons or oranges; put that sugar to dry; then have two vessels, one for the whites and one for the yolks; break the eggs one by one, and be particular in smell- ing them, as one bad one will spoil all; put the dry sugar with the yolks, and work them together with two new wooden sjjoons. put also the sugar of lemon; next whip the whites very