SOt3 sou ( 901 ) above preparation into a souffl6-disli, add to it an ounce of fresh butter, and put it into the oven, which must not bo too hot. When the souffle is done enough, powder a little sugar over it, and use the salamander. Souffles must be served up the moment they are ready, for they are liable to sink. Souffle, PouletS (a la Creme) - This dish is to be made of the remnants of roasted chickens; take o£E the white tlesh, nunce it very small, and pound it in a mortar with a little bechamel, a good lump of fresh butter, and salt aild -pepper; with this mix the yolks of four eggs. Strain the whole thi-ough a tamis, or a hair sieve; then beat the whites of live eggs tiU made into a single body; mix these with the former preparation, and put the whole in the dish to rise, or in a croutade that has been raised like the crust of a pate chaud (hot pasty). It wiU he done in a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, according to the quantity. It is to be observed, that if the oven is too hot, the outside of the souffle will be burnt, although the inside is not done enough. This, therefore, must be carefully attended to. Souffle, Simple.—Sweeten and flavour a quarter of a pint of milk Avith lemon or vanilla, boil it, and stir into it quickly, when boiling, a table-spoonful of flour which has been smoothly mixed with another quarter of a pint of milk. Add a slice of fresh butter, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the batter care- fully till it thickens, then pour it into a basin. When nearly cold, add a dessert-spoonful of brandy and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Butter a cake-tin or deep pie-dish which the batter will only half fill, and put it in the oven till hot. Beat the whites of three eggs to a firm froth, and stir them briskly into the batter. Spread a layer of jam at the bottom of the dish, pour in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven. When the souffle has risen high, and is nicely browned and firm throughout, it is done enough. Serve with the utmost expedition, or it will be spoiled. Time to bake the souffle, about twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Souffles.—A properly-made souffle is light in appearance, delicate in flavour, as well as nourishing and easily digested. It is a little difficult to make; nevertheless, if the inexpe- rienced cook will follow closely the instructions here given, and be careful to allow the best in- gredients only to enter into its composition, she wiU soon acquire sufficient dexterity in making it to remove all fear of failure. AH kinds of farinaceous substances may enter into the com- position of souffles, but the process of their manufacture is always the same. They are in perfection only when served light and high, just as they come out of the oven, before thf;y have had time to sink below the original level. In order to ensure this, the careful cook will hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over the souffle till it roaches the dining-room door. More important, however, than this is, that she should have everything that she ■will -^"qiiir*' in readiness, as delay at the critical moment may spoil everything. A souffle should be cooked in a souffle-tin, which fits into a silver-plated ornamental dish, m which it can be sent to table. When this is not at hand, a plain round or oval cake-tm or thin basin, or a deep pie-dish may be used with a high band of buttered writing-paper fastened inside the rim, to prevent the batter falling over the sides of the dish. A properly-foldmg case of frilled writing-paper should be prepared, into which it may be quickly dropped when taken from the oven. As the ingredients, with then proportions, are given under each recipe, it will only be necessary here to describe the general process of manufacture. Always remembei that the number of whites of eggs should ex- ceed the number of yolks of eggs. Do not add the whites of the eggs until the last moment, and be careful that they are whisked separately to a very stiff froth, and then are stirred hghtly into the souffle. The success of the dish > de- pends in a great measure upon this part of the business'being done thoroughly. Butter the tin, already lined with oiled writing-paper, and put it in the oven till very hot. Pour m the batter quickly, and place it in a moderate oven. The dish ought not to be more than half full. Move it about occasionally, that it may be equally baked. When it has risen to a good height, is brightly coloured, and quite set in the centre, it is done enough, and should be served immediately. Souffles may be very gently steamed instead of being baked. They are generally handed round after the removes of the second course. As they are very good also for ordinary dinners, the inexperienced cook will find it well worth her while to perfect herself by practice in the art of making them. (.See Principles of Cookery, page iv.) Soup.—There is no part of cookery which is so imperfectly understood by ordinary cooks as the preparation of soup. Amongst the wealthy it is considered a necessity, and, as a matter of course, forms part of the dinner. Amongst the middle classes it is more usually served than it used to be, and is, year by year, increasingly appreciated; but amongst the lower classes it is all but scorned; and mis- tresses of small households will testify that the maid-of-all-work, who when at home is half starved instead of being properly fed, will con- sider herself most hardly used if part of the provision of the day's dinner consists of a por- tion of wholesome soup. This opinion is, of course, a sign of ignorance. Soup is both nourishing and wholesome, and it may also be prepared economically. With attention and a little trouble, it may be made from very inex- pensive materials, and, considering that when soup has been served smaller inroads are made into the joint, the frugal housekeeper wh > has once calculated the difference in cost of a dinner consisting of economicaUy-made soup, meat, and vegetables, and one of meat and vegetables only, will never object to the intro- duction of soup at her table on account of the expense. Soup may be made of a large variety of different articles, including meat of uU lands, bones, game, poultrj', fish, shell-fish, all kinds of vegetables, herbs, and farinaceous articles,