BAB BAB ( 686 ) Babbit Curry {see Fowl, Veal, or Rabbit Curry). Babbit en Papillotes (a French recipe). —Tako Homo youug and tender rabbits, cut them into joints, and lot thoin marinade some hours in parsley, mushrooms, chives, and a clove of garlic, all chopped fine, together with pepper, salt, and oil. Cover each piece of rabbit with some of this seasoning and a slice of bacon cut very thin; wrap each separately in well-buttered white paper; broil over a gentle fire, and serve in tlio paper as hot as possible. Probable cost, rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Babbit, Fricandeau of.—Take the fleshy portion of a large fat rabbit—that is, the hind-quarters and the loins cut olf close to the shoulder-blades. Lard the flesh evenly and closely, and lay it in a deep baking-dish. Pour upon it as much nicely-flavoured stock as will cover it, fasten a piece of buttered paper over the dish, and bake the rabbit in a moderate oven until it is quite tender, being careful to baste it frequently, and to add a little more stock if required. Lift the rabbit out of the gravy, and keep it hot. Boil the liquor quickly in which it was baked till it begins to thicken. Have ready a tea-cupful of rich tomato sauce. Spread this on a hot dish. Lay the rabbit upon it, pass a red hot shovel over the larding, to make it crisp, and pour the gravy over all. Serve very hot. Time to bake the fricandeau, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Fricasseed.—Cut a young rabbit into neat joints, lay it in a stewpan, and cover with good stock. Let the liquid boil, then put with it three onions, three carrots, three turnips, and three sticks of celery, aU sliced; add a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, arid a small piece of sugar, and stew all gently together until the vegetables are quite soft. Lift the vegetables out, and rub them through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Stir the puree over the fire with a table-spoonful of the gravy for two or three minutes to make it quite hot. Put the pieces of rabbit on a dish, cover with the puree, and pour the sauce over all. Serve very hot. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Fricasseed, Brown.—Skin, empty, and clean a rabbit, preserving the liver and heart. Wash it, and afterwards dry it well in a soft cloth, and cut it into neat joints con- venient for serving. If it is intended to make use of the head, split it open, and take out the eyes. Dissolve a slice of butter and a slice of lard in a saucepan, and fry the pieces of rabbit in the fat. ^Vhen thoy are nicely browned, take them out, and lay them aside. Mince three onions finely, fry them until brown, and put them with the rabbit. Stir a dessert-spoonful of flour into the fat, and beat it with the back of a wooden spoon until it is quite smooth, and of a bright brown colour. Moisten gradually with as much stock or water as is required to make it of the con- sistency of thick cream, and add to it a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, a little salt and pepper, and a clove of garlic, if this 18 liked. Put in the pieces of laljbit, and let all simmer gently together until the rabbit 18 sufficiently dressed. J ust licfore tlie fricassee 18 served, put into it a glassful of claret or port. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for four or five personH. Babbit, Fricasseed, White. — Skin, empty, and wasli a nice young rabbit, and afterwards dry it well in a soft cloth. Drain it, and cut it into neat joints convenient for serving. Put it into a stewpan, pour over it as much white stock or water as will barely cover it, and add two onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blade of mace, the peel of half a lemon, and a little salt. Simmer all gently together for three-quarters of an hour, lift out the pieces of rabbit, and put them aside. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flour very smoothly with a tea-cupful of milk or cream, add-a tea-cup- ful of the gravy, and put the liquor into a clean saucepan with a slice of butter rolled in flour. Stir it until it boils, then let it simmer gently mitil it is so thick that it will coat the spoon. Put the pieces of rabbit into this sauce, and let them get quite hot. Add pepper and salt if required, and at the last moment stir the juice of a lemon into the sauce. iVrrange the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with cut lemon. This fri- cassee will be very much improved if a dozen or more blanched mushrooms are simmered -with the gravy ten minutes before it is taken from the fire. Time, one hour. Probable cost, 38. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Fricasseed, White (another and a superior way).—Prepare a rabbit as in the last recipe. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over the pieces of rabbit, put them into the saucepan, and with them a dozen button onions and half a pint of blanched mush- rooms. Let all simmer gently in the butter for three or four minutes, shaking the sauce- pan frequently, in order to keep the pieces of rabbit from acquiring any colour. Dredge two ounces of flour over them, pour on them half a pint of stock or water, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira, if liked. Let the fricassee boil, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half an hour, or longer if the rabbit is large. Carefully remove the scum and the fat as they rise to the surface. Season the gravy with a little salt and pepper, if required, and add a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of caj'cnne, and a lump of sugar the size of a marble. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a quarter of a pint of cream, take the fricassee from the fire for one minute, then stir a small portion of the gravy into the cream, and after- wards mix it with "the rest. Stir over the fire tiU it is quite hot, but on no account allow it to boil after the eggs are added. At tlie Last moment stir in a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Arrange the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish, place the mushrooms and onions round them, and pour the sauce over all. Garnish with cut lemon. Serve very hot. Time, one hour or more. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for four or five persons.