( S41 ) SCA SCH Scad —This fish, sometimes called the horse-muckorel, is common on the south- western shores of England, but is compara- tively rare in the north. Sometimes it appears in immense shoals, pursuing the fry ot her- rings, or similar prey, and the multitudes have sometimes been so numerous and so crowded to"-ether that overloaded nets have been torn in pieces: the fish might have been lifted out ot the sea in bucketfuls. The flavour of the scad is not unlike that of the mackerel. When fi-csh, it is not much liked, but it is often salted, and in that state is in demand as an ai-ticle of food. Scald Cream—Provincially, cream raised by heat, or clouted cream. Scalloped Fish.—The remains of any description of diessed fish and shell-fish may be served in this way : mackerel and herrings are the least suitable for the purpose. Take the skin and bone from the fish, and tear the flesh into flakes. Mix with it a third of its weight in finely-grated bread-crumbs, or in well-mashed potatoes, and season the mixture rather highly with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Moisten slightly with the remains of sauce served with the fish, or, lacking this, with a little clarified butter. Butter some scallop shells, or some small shallow dishes, and line the inside with grated bread-crumbs. Put in the mixture, cover the surface with bread-crumbs, lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top, and bake in a well-heated oven or in a Dutch oven before the fire until the surface is brightly browned; serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Scallops. — The scallop is a sheU-fish somewhat larger than an oyster, and some- what resembling it in shape. It is something like a crab in taste. It may be served in two or three ways, and is generally highly esteemed where it is known. The scallop may enter appropriately into any fish pie, though it shoiild be boiled previously. It is best when scalloped. The deep shells of the scallop should be carefully preserved after they are used, and will be usefiil when it is wished to " scallop " the remains of dressed fish of any kind. Scallops, Scalloped.—Procure the scal- lops when alive and as fresh as possible. Open them, loosen them from the shell, trim away the beards and the black portion, leaving the yellow and white parts of the fish. Wash them, m two or three waters, and drain them. Scour and rinse the deeper shells, dry them, and butter thickly. ]\Iince the scallops, and mix with them a third of their bulk in grated bread-crumbs, a liberal allowance of pepper and salt, and a little chopped parsley. A large table-spoonful of chopped parsley will be suf- ficient for a dozen scallops. Sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over the inside of the shell, and Hhake off those that do nc^ adhere. Put in the minced fish, cover the surface with bread- crumbs, and lay little pieces of butter here and there on the top. Put the shells in a well-heated oven or in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let them remain until the contents are heated 2„* throughout and brown on the surface. Sc-rve the scallops very hot in the shells on a neatly- folded napldn. A Httle vinegar should be sent to table with them, and four shells will he vo- quired for every dozen scaUops. ihe sheas should be carefully preserved, and may be used again and again for scaUoped fish ot any kind Time to bake the scallops, halt an hour. Probable cost, when plentiful, Is. per dozen. Sufiicient, one dozen for fom- persons. Scallops, Stewed.-Procure the scallops alive and quite fresh. Open the shell like an oyster, trim away the beard and the black parts. Wash the scaUops in two or tluec waters, then put them into a saucepan, pour over them as much water as wiU cover them, and boil them gently till tender. Take them up, thicken the Uquor with flour and butter, and season it with pepper, salt, and vinegar : serve the fish on a hot dish with a little of the sauce poured over. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, when plentiful. Is. per dozen. Sufficient, a dozen for three or four persons. Scaltheen.—In Ireland, before the days of Father Matthew, there used to be a favourite beverage, termed scaltheen, made by brewing whisky and butter together. Few could con- coct it properly, for if the whisky and butter were done too much or too little the compound had a harsh or burnt taste, very disagreeable, and totally different from the soft creamy flavour required. Schabzeiger Cheese.—This is a German cheese flavoured by the addition of the plant known in this country as melilot. ■ It finds admii-ers in England. Schodoh Pudding.—The following re- cipe for German pudding with schodoh (chau- deau) is given by a trustworthy authority:— Take two quarts of grated bread-crumbs, pour over them as much cream as will wet them; beat six ounces of butter in a deep pan to cream, to which add six eggs, one at a time every five minutes; to this add four ounces of sugar, two ounces of almonds blanched and chopped fine, two ounces of preserved lemon, also chopped, four ounces of currants, and four ounces of stoned raisins, and lastly, the bread- crumbs ; beat and mix all well together; butter a pudding-cloth or shape, strew it with flour, and boil it two hours over a moderate fire. A quarter of an hour before it is wanted, take the pudding off the fire. In the meantime, prepare the schodoh as follows :—Have ready the yolks of twelve eggs beat up, to which add six spoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of Austrian wine; set it on the fire, and beat it with a whisk till the whole thickens and forms a fine bubbling sauce. When it has reached this point, remove it, as by remaining longer it will curdle, to prevent which it is best to put the saucepan into cold water and keep beating the preparation all the time; lift the pudding out, put it into a deep dish, and pour the schodoh over it. The pud- ding may be made by substituting six ounces of marrow chopped fine instead of butter. The sjhodoh may also be poured into cups, and eaten separately.