( 820 ) SAN SAN ■between two slices of buttered bread. Seni'e in the usual way. Sangaree.—This is a sort of punch fre- quently drunk in the West Indies. It is com- posed of half madeira and half water, acidulated with lime-juice and sweetened with sugar. Sangaree (American).—Put a quarter of a pint of madeira or port into a large tumbler. Add two or three lumps of sugar and as much hot or cold water as will fill the glass. Grate nutmeg over the preparation, and serve. Sangaree, Danish.—The following is a Danish method of making sangaree. Take three bottles of red wine, and mix with them a pint and a half of water; add a whole nut- meg grated, and cinnamon and sugar to taste. Set the preparation on the fire, and let it boil up; then take it off, and let it stand with the cover on till cold. Strain and bottle. Sangaree, Strong. —The following re- cipe for "The Admiral's Strong Sangaree" is given by Mr. James Eobinson. Put into a stone jar a pint and a half of cherry brandy, a quarter of a pint of lime-juice, three pints of madeira wine, thi-ee quarts of French brandy, three-quarters of a pound of preserved guavas sliced, two ounces each of candied citron and lemon sliced, two ounces of preserved ginger sliced, half an oimce each of cinnamon and cloves beaten fine, one ounce each of nutmeg and Jamaica pepper, two ounces of pistachio nuts blanched and beaten, half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and beaten, three- quarters of an ounce each of gum arabic and gum dragon dissolved. Beat the almonds and nuts to a paste with a spoonful of orange- fiower water. Make a pleasant mixture of the madeira, lime-juice, and loaf sugar; pour it to the rest, cork and seal the jar, and set it in hot water to infuse the greater part of a day. In twelve hours shake it well, and keep it in a warm temperature six weeks, after which it may be stored. In twelve or fifteen months strain it off, filter it several times until it is beautifully bright, then put it in small bottles, which cork well and seal, and in six months more it will be excellent. Sangaree (West Indian). — Crush four ounces of loaf sugar to powder, and pour upon it a large wine-glassful of lime-juice. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add a bottle of madeira, half a pint of pure French brandy, and two pints of cold spring water. Grate the fourth part of a small nutmeg over the sangaree, put a large lump of ice into it, and serve. Sponge cake or savoy biscuit is generally served with sangaree. Sanitary Soup. — In his weU-known " Essay on Food " Count Rumlord describes a soup which may be made in time of scarcity a« little cost for the sustenance of the poor thus: " After an experience," he says, «'of more than five years in feeding the poor at Munich, during which time every experiment was made that could be devised, not only with regard to the choice of the articles used as food, but also in respect to their different combinations and proportions, and to the various ways in which I they could be prepared or cooked, it was found that the cheapest, most savoury, and most nourishing food that could be provided was a soup, composed of pearl-barley, peas, potatoes, cuttings of fine wheat bread, vinegar, salt, and water in certain proportions. The method oi preparing this soup is as follows:—The water and the pearl-barley are first put together into the boiler, and made to boil; the peas are then added, and the boiling is continued over a gentle fixe about two hours; the potatoes are then added (having been previously peeled with a knife, or having been boiled, in order to their being more easily deprived of their skins), and the boiling is continued for about one hour more, during which time the contents of the boiler are frequently stirred about with a large wooden spoon or ladle, in order to destroy the texture of the potatoes and to reduce the soup into one uniform mass. When this is done the vinegar and salt are added, and, last of all, at the moment of serving, the cuttings of bread. The soup should never be suffered to boil, or even to stand long before it is served up, after the cuttings of bread are put to it. It will indeed be best never to put the cuttings of br^ad into the boiler at all, but to put them into khe tubs in which the soup is carried from the kitchen into the dining-hall, pouring the soup hot from the boiler upon them, and stirring the whole well together with the iron ladles used for measm-ing out the soup for the poor in the hall. It is of more importance than can be ima- gined that this bread which is mixed with the soup should not be boiled. It is likewise of use that it should be cut as fine or thin as possible ; and if it be dry and hard it will be so much the better. The bread we use at Munich is what is called semel-bread, being small loaves, weighing from two to three ounces; and as we receive the bread in donations from the bakers, it is commonly diy and hard, being that which, not being sold in time, remains on hand, and become stale and unsaleable ; and we have found by experience that this hard and stale bread answers our purpose much better than any other, for it renders mastication necessary, and mastication seems very powerfully to assist in promoting digestion, likewise prolongs the duration of the enjoyment of eating—a matter of great importance indeed, and which has not hitherto been sufficiently attended to." Sant^, Potage de (Oareme's recipe).— Put into a stock-pot two roast fowls (to colour it slightly), a large knuckle of veal (remo^'ing the bony end), and some bones of roast beef, if you have any; add the necessary beef stock (twenty ladlefuls), so that the consomme when reduced may contain about fifteen ladlefuls; remove the scum, after which add the roots and some grains of pepper; boil it slowly five hours, skim off the fat, and take up the meats; then mix in the consomme the white of an egg beaten up with a little cold beef stock to clarify it; after twenty minutes boiling, strain it through a napkin, and again set it to boil, mixing ^dth it the following roots and vegetables: the red part of a large carrot, cut with a root-cutter in columns three-quarters of an inch wide, and each column being divided into slices one-eighth