( 1065 ) VEA VEA remain whole. Eub it over with butter, then put it into a stewpan with two moderate-sized onions thinly sliced, and turn it about over a clour tiro till it is brijjhtly browned. Dredge Hour upon it, put with it the juice and thin rind ot' half a lemon, a lump of sugar, and a little pepper and salt, and then cover with some nicely-flavoured veal gravy. Cover the sauce- pan closely, and let its contents stew very gently till the meat is tender without being too much dressed. Pour most of the gravy into a clean saucepan, thicken it with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, or with a table-spoonful of flour nuxed smoothly with a httle cold water, and a tea-spoonful of sugar browning. Add a dessert-spoonful of ketchup, half a glassful of sherry, and a few stewed mushrooms if these arc to be had. Put the meat into the thickened gravy, let it get quite hot, then serve on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. Fresh or pickled cucvraiber may accompany this dish. The gravy may be made by stewing the bones and ti'immings of the veal for an hour or more in a quart of water with a biinch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and six or eight peppercorns. Time to stew the veal, one hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost, 4s. lOd., exclusive of the wine. Ve£ll Stew, Piquant.—Take two pounds of lean veal from uie fiUet. Cut these into pieces haK an inch square, season with salt and pepper, dredge them with flour, and fry in butter till lightly browned. Fry with them a moderate-sized cucumber sliced and floured, a quarter of a pint of green gooseberries opened and seeded, a shred lettuce, and a few onions if liked. Move the vegetables about whilst they are being fried to keep them from burning. Lift the ingredients into a saucepan, pour over them gradually as much boiling stock or water as will barolj'' cover them. Let them simmer gently till the meat is tender. Serve very hot. Time to stew the veal, &c., about an hour. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Veal Stew with Green Peas.—Stew the veal as before. Add to the other ingredients a pint or more of freshly-shelled green peas. Let the veal stew till it is three-parts dressed, put in with it a lettuce finely shred, and let it stew half an hour after this is added. Thicken the gravy, and serve the veal on a hot dish with the gravy and peas poured over it. Time, about two hours. Veal Tea for Infants and Invalids. —Take a pound of lean veal, cut it into small pieces, sprinkle a pinch of salt over it, put it into a saucepan, and pour upon it a pint of cold ^vater. Let it boil, and skim carefully, then simmer gently for an hour. Pour it out, strain it, and it will be ready for use. To thicken it, mix a toa-spoonful of arro-svroot with a table- spoonful of cold water, and stir the boiling tea slowly into this, or boil a spoonful of arrowroot or sago in the liquor a quarter of an hour before using it. A little new milk may be added to the tea occasionally for the sake of variety. Time to simmer the tea, one hour. Probable cost, veal, lid. per pound. The above ingre- I I* dients are sulficient for a breakfast-cupful of tea. Veal, Tendons of.—The tendons of veal are the gristly portions found at the extremity of the bones towards the thick end of a breast of veal. They ai-e frequently cut ofE (care being taken not to spoil the appearance of the joint), and served on a separate dish as an entree. When the breast of veal is large it is well that this should be done, as they are often lost by being underdressed. They must, of course, be cut off the meat before it is di-essed. The place where the tendons begin and the ribs end is shown by a line of wliite gristle. Veal, Tendons of (a la Proven(,'alc).— Take the tendons of a breast of veal, and cut them in pieces two inches square. Pour four ounces of salad oil into a good-sized saucepan, and add two moderate-sized onions finely minced, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a little pepper and salt. Put the pan on a slow fire, and place lighted embers on the lid that the cooking process may be carried on above as well as below. Stii- the preparation frequently, and let it simmer gently till the gristles ai-e tender. Pour in half a pint of stock, boil for five minutes, and without skim- ming the fat from the gravy. Serve the tendons in a dish with the gravy poured over them. Veal, Tendons of, Curried. — Take the tendons from one or two breasts of veal, being cai-eful in doing so not to spoil the joint for stewing or roasting. Put them into a deep stewpan with two carrots, two onions (each stuck with a clove), a strip of lemon-rind, a bay- leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme. Pour over them a pint of good stock, and let them simmer gently till tender. Take them up carefully wdth a skimmer, pull" out any hard parts that may remain, and press them between two dishes tiU. cold. Strain the liquor in which they were stewed, and when it is cool free it from fat. Slice two onions, and fry them in butter with a finelj^-minced apple. Stir these in a saucepan over the fire till they are soft, rub them thi-ough a sieve, and mix with the pulp a dessert-spoonful of cuny paste, a tea-spoon- ful of cuiTy powder, and a dessert-spoonful of gi-oimd rice. Add the stock gradually, and stir the sauce over the fire till it boils. Cut the tendons into rounds, squares, or diamonds half an inch thick, and about an inch and a half across. Put them into the curry sauce, and let them remain until they are heated through. Dish, them alternately with fried rashers of bacon in a circle on a hot dish, and pour the curry sauce over and round them. Send rice boiled for cuny to table on a separate dish. Time, four hours to simmer the tendons. Probable cost, uncertain, the tendons being sold with the breast of veal. Veal Tendons, Fried.—Stew the ten- dons in the usual way, and place them between two dishes till cold. Cut them into slices half an inch thick. Brush them over with beaten egg, dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry theio over a slow fire of a pale brown. Serve very hot. Take half a pint of the sauce in which they were stewed, stir into it two table-spoonfuls