( 850 ) SEE SEM -sprinkle comtits over tho top. Bako in a jiioderutoly-hoatod ovon. Time to bake, throe- <iuarters of an hour to one hour. Probable tost, 3s. No. 6. Beat half a pound of fresh butter to cream, and mix with it very gradually a quarter of a pint of orange or rose-water. Add a pound of powdered sugar, twelve ounces of dried flour, three ounces of ground rice, two .ounces of sweet almonds, and two ounces of blanched and pounded bitter almonds, an ounce of carawav-seeds, and nine well-l)caton eggs. The ingredients should be added slowly, and tho mixture beaten between every addition. Line a buttered cake-tin with oiled or but- tered paper, thi-ee-parts till it with tho mixture, and then bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about an hour- and a half. Probable ■ cost of these cakes, from lOd. to Is. 6d. per pound. Seed Cakes, Cheap.—No. i. RuTj six ounces of sweet dripping into a pound of floui-, add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, a table-spoonful of caraway-seeds, and six ounces of sugar. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Put a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda into half a pint of milk, and set it in the oven till the soda is dissolved. Let the milk cool a little, and when it is lukewarm add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and stir it into the cake. Beat the cake well, put it into a but- tered hoop, and bake in a moderately-heated •oven. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate-sized cake. No. 2. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into three pounds of fiour; add half a tea-spoonful of salt, three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, two tea-spoonfuls of mixed ..spice, two ounces of caraway-seeds, a pinch of powdered mace or grated nutmeg, eight ounces of sugar, and two ounces of candied peel cliopped small. Mix the dry ingredients tho- roughly. Beat them to a paste with a pint of milk, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Probable cost, 5d. per pound. Suf- ficient for two moderate-sized cakes. No. 3. Rub six ounces of butter into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, six ounces of moist . sugar, and two table-spoonftils of caraway- seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Dissolve a small dessert-spoonful of carbonate of soda in a table-spoonful of nulk. Add this to as much milk as will make up half a pint altogether, stir the milk to two well-beaten eggs, and afterwards beat the whole into the cake. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, . and bake in a moderately-heated oven. A Httle spice and candied peel can be added, if approved. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a moderate- sized cake. No. 4. Rub six ounces of butter into three-quarters of a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, five ounces of the best moist sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of caraway- seed. Dissolve half a small tea-spoonful of soda in a tea-spoonful of hot milk. Beat this up with two eggs already well whisked, and stir the whole into the cake. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in a . moderately-heated oven. Time to bake, from thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Seidlitz Water, Bottled.—Take a suf- ficient number of soda-water bottles, and fill them with clear water; tlien add tlio follov\ ing ingredients, and cork and wii e the bottles im- mediately :—Two draclnns of Uoehelle salts, tliirty-five grains of bicarbonate of soda, and eleven drops of sulphuric acid. Seir Pish.—This fish inhabits the seas of the East Indies, and is one of the most valuable products of these parts. In size and form it closely resembles tho salmon ; its flesh also is similar in point of firmness and flavour. The colour of the flesh is white. Semolina.—Semolina, or Semoule, or Soujee, is simply a nourishing and wholesome preparation of wheat-flour. It may be made into puddings or used for thickening soups, and is specially suitable for the use of children and sick people. It may be purchased of grocers or Italian warehousemen. Semolina Cup-Puddings.—Put three ounces of semolina into a bowl, and pour over it as much milk as will cover it. Let it soak for half an hour, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of boiling milk, three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a slice of fresh butter, and a salt-spoonful of gi-ated lemon-rind. Stu- it over the fire without ceasing for about a quarter of an hour. Pom- it out, let it cool a little, and beat briskly into it four weU-whisked eggs. Pour the mixture into buttered cups, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn the puddings upon a dish, and pour sweet sauce round them before scrv'ing. Time to bake, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Semolina Pudding.—Take a pint and a half of milk, when boiling drop into it three table-spoonfuls of semolina, and stir all to- gether for about fifteen minutes ; throw in two ounces of butter, and three oimces and a half of sifted sugar, with the grated rind of a lemon. Whilst the semolina still remains hot, beat gradually and briskly into it four eggs. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, half an hour. Semolina Pudding, Baked.—Flavour a pint and a half of milk with almonds or lemon-rind. Put it into a saucepan, let it boil up, and drop into it when boiling, three table- spoonfuls of semolina, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a slice of fresh butter. Stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens a little. Pour it out, let it cool, and add gradually four well-beaten eggs. Line a pie-dish half way down with good pastry, butter the bottom, pour in the mixture, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. If a plain pudding is required, two eggs only need be used. Serve stewed fnnt or wine sauce with the pudding. Time to bake, about half an hour, or till set. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Semolina Pudding, French (f« Gatefl." de Semoule).