PRE PEE ( 651 ) others, or not subjecting the tins for so long a period to the hot batjis, or modifying the operation of 'brogging,' or introducing some other slight modifications which do not reaUy att'ect the main principle of these methods of preservation by heat. "The chief feature of the patent vacuum process of Mr. Jones is that each tin, as it stands in the hot bath, is connected by a tube with a vacuum chamber, and that the steam and moisture are from time to time suddenly drawn off from the tin by turning a tap con- nected with the chamber. The advantage of this process is that a vacuum is created in the tins more quickly than by the other heat processes, and thus the necessity of overcooking their contents, as in the other methods, in order to obtain a perfect vacuum, is to a great extent obviated, and the meat turns out more solid. This comparative complication, how- ever, of Jones's process, and the difficulty in its manipulation, coupled with the fact that the weight of the contents of the tins is so greatly reduced by the absorbtion of the moisture, have militated against the adoption of the patent by meat-preservers generally, though many of them fully acknowledge its superiority to other methods in the food preserved by it. " Such are the several processes, differing somewhat in detail, but substantially the same in principle, by which preserving by heat is effected. It is by one or other of these, with certain trifling modifications adopted by this or that manufacturer, that almost all the solid meat, fish, poultry, vegetables, soups, stews, the variety of ' odds and ends,' such as kidneys, tripe, sausages, minced meat, and the several ' made dishes,' both in this country and abroad, are preserved; and it is by heat alone that it can fairly be said the food-preservation question has been solved, and then only in a certain modified sense. By all the above heat methods, however, preservation—simply as preservation —is perfect. As long as the tin or other receptacle in which meat, or any other sub- stance, has been successfully preserved by the creation of a perfect vacuum, remains sound and air-tight, so long will its contents remain sound also. Tins, with the meat perfectly good in them, though preserved nearly fifty years ago, are stiU in existence. At the London Exhibitions of 1851, 1862, and 1863, tins of meat which had been put up from twenty-five to forty years before were exhibited and tested, and were found perfectly sound. Stores of preserved meat, &c., in tins, have been left in the Arctic regions for years, annually ex- posed to a temperature of 92 degrees below, and 80 degrees above zero. They have been brought back to this countrj--, and the con- tents of the tins found to be as soimd as the day they were put up. As a matter, then, of more preservation, the heat processes are an unquestionable success, and by their agency we have in this country been able to obtain a large supply of sound, edible, and cheap beef and mutton from the very ends of the earth." Preserved meat in tins comes to this coun- try from Australia, Now Zealand, and South America. It has failed to attain that popularity which was anticipated at first, though the con- sumption, it cannot be denied, is very consider-, able. One of the chief reasons for receiving little notice at the hands of some people is its over- cooked state. "With all its imperfections, however," says one writer, " we hold it might be much more widely used than it is ; for even, if it is admitted that, mouthful for mouthful, it is of less nutritive value than butcher's meat, yet the latter, after the deductions in weight for cooking and bone, costs really about twice as much as the preserved meat." The heat process has been applied with con- siderable success to the preservation of fish; but this, however, is inclined to grow soft and pulpy after being some time in the tins. It should be eaten within a reasonable period of its preservation. Vegetables and fruit have also been subjected to the heat process, and are well worthy of attention. Preserved Fruit in Pastry. —Pre- served fruits ought not to be baked long; indeed, those that have been preserved with their full proportion of sugar require no baking. Bake the crust in a tin shape, and add the fruit afterwards ; or put the fruit in a small dish or tart pan, and bake the covers on a tin, cut according to taste. Preserved Fruit, Omelet of (a French recipe).—Beat the whites and yolks of six eggs separately; add a little zest of lemon to the latter; then mix the two together, beating them well, with a little cream, and two table-spoonfuls of apple marmalade, apricot, gooseberry, or any fruit you have. Pour it into the pan; sugar it when in the pan; turn it topsy-turvy into a plate; put it on a dish, cover the surface thickly with powdered sugar, and brown it with the salamander- Preserved Milk.—The value of preserved milk is acknowledged by thousands of households in which no other form of milk is used. The history of this article is soon told. For many years the only sort of preserved milk was what was called desiccated milk, but it never was regarded with much favour; the process by which it was obtained destroyed some of the essential constituents of the original substance, and thus lessenned its nutritive value. '' The method of condensing and preserving the milk is substantially the same at all the manufactories. The writer of this article," says a popular author, " has watched the process from beginning to end, on more than one occasion, both at Aylesbury and Middle- wich; it may be thus described: — Steam is got up about six in the morning, and the farmers who live within one to ten miles of the factory begin to deliver their milk about seven o'clock, and it is nearly nine before the last arrives. The milk is emptied at once from the large tin cans generally used in the trade into a trough, which conducts it through sieves into a large tank, holding about eight hundred gallons, in the department where the first part of the process takes place. From this tank it is drawn into large open metal cylinders, which are slung up by a crane, and placed in a hot water bath, in large tanks, somewhat after the