SAB sAtr ( 827 )• Sardines.—The best are the small sardines caught on the coast of Provence in France. From a thousand to twelve hxmdred fishing smacks are engaged in catching these fish o£E the coast of Brittany from June to the middle of October of each year. The French often cure sardines in red brine, and when thus pre- pared designate them anchoisees or anchovied sardines. These are packed in vessels pre- viously used for holding wine, and exported to the Levant. "When quite fresh sardines are considered excellent: they entirely lose their flavour, and become quite insipid if kept for any length of time. On tiio Mediterranean coasts of Italy and France sardine fishing takes place in the summer months. The fish are cured by washing in salt water, sprinkling with salt, removing the head, gills, &c., washing again, drying in the sun and wind, steeping in boiling olive oil, draining, and packing in small square tin boxes; the boxes are filled up with oil, the Kd is sol- dered on, and the box is exposed for a short time to the action of steam or hot water. These cured sardines are largely exported to various countries, where they are considered a delicacy. The real sardine resembles a small pilchard; but many of the fish cxired as sardines are not genuine: they are either sprats, pilchards, or small herrings. Sardines, Canap^es of. — Take some slices of roll, and cut them neatly into oval or octagon shapes. Toast them slightly, or fry them in oil or butter till they are of a nice yellow colour. Take some sardines, and strip them from the bones. Lay one-half of them aside, and pound the other to a smooth paste with the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs and some butter. Add mustard, pepper, chives, minced parsley, tarragon, and a little vinegar. When these ingredients are thoroughly incor- porated, spread the paste over the prepared slices of roll. On the top lay the other half of the sardines, cut into smaU strips; and place on each croquette little slices of pickled gherkins, and here and there a shelled prawn. Sardines, Fresh.—Clean the sardines, and press them gently with a soft cloth till they are quite dry. Broil them on a gridiron over a clear brisk fire, and when they are done enough on one side turn them upon the other. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve very hot. _ Time to broil, two minutes each side. Sufficient, six or eight for a small dish. Sardines, Spinach with.—Boil the spinach. Before doing this let it He in water for a little while, and rinse it several times in fresh water. Put it into boiling water with a minced onion and plenty of salt, and let it boil gently, uncovered, for eight or ten minutes. Drain and chop the spinach. Take a few sar- dines, remove the skin and bones, then mince the fish, and stir them among the vegetables. Take a good-sized piece of butter, and melt it in a stowpan, dredge in as much flour as it will absorb, and add a little water or broth, together with salt and pepper. Stir it to a thick sauce, then stir the spinach in. Send to table when quite hot, garnishing the dish ^ith hard-boiled eggs sliced. Sardines, To Serve.—Knives made on purpose to open sardine boxes may be purchased of the dealers. When the fish are to he served, open the box, lift out as many sardines as are needed, wipe them lightly, and arrange them neatly on a small dish. Garnish with chopped parsley and capers, and pour a little fresh salad- oil over them. On no account use the oil which is in the box. Send bread and butter to table with them. Sardonic Salad (see Saxon Salad, some- times called Sardonic Salad). Sassafras.—An agreeable beverage is made in North America by infusing sassafras bark or sassafras wood, and a similar beverage was once very commonly sold at daybreak in the streets of the metropolis, under the name of saloop. A few saloop vendors are still to be seen plying their vocation. The leaves of sassafras con- tain so much mucilage that they are used for thickening soup. Sassafras (Invalid Cookery).—The simple infusion of sassafras is a useful preparation in some complaints, and sassafras tea is often fovmd to be of great service in the case of aged persons suffering from chronic rheumatism. A few chips of the wood are frequently added to common tea. Sassafras is a cheap and agree- able beverage, and when China tea, taken late in the evening, prevents sleep, sassafras may be substituted. Sassafras Cordial.—Take half-a-pound of sassafras chips, two ounces of compound extract of sarsaparilla, one ounce of gum arable dissolved in white wine, one ounce of juniper- berries bruised, two ounces of pistachio nuta blanched and beaten, one ounce of syrup of lemons, two ounces of rosemary leaves shred fine, one ounce of sweet marjoram shred fine, one oimce each of candied lemon and citron, nine ounces of sugar candy beaten fine, twelve ounces of stoned and cut muscatel raisins, three quarts of sherry wine, and two quarts of proof spirit of wine. Beat the nuts with a little of the wine, and put all the above ingre- dients into a jar, which cork and seal. Set the jar in a hot water bath, and let the cordial infuse eight hours every day for a week. Keep it two months; then strain and filter, and use the cordial when wanted. Sassafras cordial is greatly improved by age. Saubaglione.—This deUcious preparation should be put into glasses, and may be served hot or cold. Put three or four yolks of eggs into a chocolate pot with an equal number of glasses of Frontignac or other sweet wine and a few spoonfuls of finely-powdered loaf sugar. Place the mixture on a clear gentle fire, and whisk it to the consistency of thick cream. Pour it out, and serve. It is usual to allow an egg and a glass of wine for each guest. Sauce, Pish and (a Scotch dish).—Take a sufficient number of fresh haddocks, clean them, and cut off the heads, tails, and fins. Boil the latter thoroughly to make stock. When done, strain it, and take the liquid part, adding a little flour mixed with cold water, butter, salt, and somo chopped parsley,