PHB PIC ( 545 ) lean of an unboiled hum finely minced, a small pprig of thymo, a biiy-leaf, a handful of parsley, lialf a blade of mace, three or four cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a shallot, and three or four of the outer sticks of a head of celery. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire until they are brightly browned, put in the flesh and the bruised body of tlie bird, pour over them a quart of veal or beef stock, and after boiling stew gently for half an hour, and be careful to remove the scum as it rises. Strain the soup, and rub the meat through a tamis or sieve. Mix the puree with the soup, add to it a small pinch of .cayenne, a little salt, a glassful of sherry, and the fillets of the pheasant cut into thick slices; stir over the fire until it is quite hot, and serve. Time, an hour and a half or more. Probable cost, 5s. This soup may be made with the remains of dressed pheasant. Pheasant Soup (another way).—Roast a well-hung pheasant according to the directions given in the last recipe. Take off the flesh from the breast and wings, skin it, and lay it aside. Divide the rest of the bird into joints, put it into a stewpan, pour over it a quart of unseasoned beef stock, let it boil, and simmer gently for three hours. Strain the soup, and carefully rub the meat through a tamis or sieve. Pound the flesh of the breast in a mortar until it is reduced to a smooth paste, mix with it an ounce of fresh butter, a heaped table-spoonful of finely-grated bread- crumbs, a large tea-spoonful of salt, a blade of jnace powdered, and a pinch of cayerme. Mix this paste with the soup, stir it over the fire until it is quite hot, skim carefully, and serve. Time, nearly five hours. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Pheasant, Stewed.—Pluck and draw a well-hung pheasant, and truss it as a fowl is trussed for boiling. Put it in a saucepan with. as much hot stock or water as will cover it, and put with it a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, three or four outer sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Let the liquid boil, and care- fully remove the scum as it rises; then draw it to the side, and let it simmer very gently until the bird is done enough. Take it up, and serve the pheasant with celery sauce poured over it; garnish vnth potato croquettes. Time to stew,' three-quarters of an hour or more, according to the size of the bird. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each, when in full season. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Pheasant, Stewed with Cabbage.— i ick, draw, and smgo two pheasants, and truss them as for boiHng. Divide two good-sized cabbages into quarters, soak them for an hour cut ofl: the stalks, plunge them into boiling water and lot them boil for ten minutes; then take them up, drain them, press the water from them, and put them into a large stewimn. Bury the pheasants in the cabbage, and add half a pound of streaky bacon, one pound of uncooked J5ologna sausages, one pound of pork sausages, ^ handful of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a '«y-leat, two carrots, an onion stuck with six troves, and a little pepper. Pour in as much stock ns will juat cover the whole, cover the s stewpan closely; bring the contents to a boil, and then let them simmer gently for an hour and a quarter. At the end of that time, lift out the birds and the meat, and keep them warm in the oven. Drain the cabbage, season with salt and pepper, and stir over a good fire imtil it is di-y. Place it on a dish, put the pheasants upon it, and place round it the bacon, sausage, and carrot cut into slices. Send good brown sauce, or, if prefen-ed, a little poivrade sauce, to table in a tureen. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each, when in full season. Suffi- cient for eight or ten persons. Pheasant, Stuffed and Roasted.— Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, truss it as for roasting, and fill it with a forcemeat prepared as follows :—Wash the liver of the bird, and fry it in hot fat until it is done enough; mince it finely, pound it in a mortar, and mix with it two table-spoonfuls of grated bread-crumbs, a dessert-spoonful of finely-minced ham, three mushrooms chopped smaU, a minced shallot, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and half an ounce of fresh butter. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind them ' together with the yolk of an egg. Cover the breast of the bird with thin slices of fat bacon tied on securely with twine, and roast before a clear fire. When it is done enough, serve the pheasant on a hot dish, with a sauce prepared a follows in a tureen:—Put a table-spoonful Oi olive-oil into a stewpan with six raw button- mushrooms, a clove of garlic, two shallots, and half a tea-spoonful of capers, all finely minced. Add four cloves, a bay-leaf, a small sprig of thyme, another of parsley, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and stir these over a gentle fire for five or six minutes. Pour over these ingredients two table-spoon- fuls of broth and a glassful of sherry, and simmer very gently for fifteen minutes. Ee- move the cloves, the herbs, and the garlic, pour in two spoonfuls more of broth, simmer five minutes longer, and skim the sauce carefully. Hub it through a fine hair-sieve, add a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, heat the sauce once more, and it is ready for serving. If preferred, three or four tomatoes may be added to this sauce. They should be simmered with the other ingredients until they can be pressed through a sieve. Time to roast the pheasant, three- quarters of an hour or more, according to the size ; three-quarters of an hour to prepai'e the sauce. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. each, when plentiful. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Trussed.—The pheasant may be trussed either with or without the head. If without, care must be taken to leave sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back ; if the head, however, is left on, it must be brought roimd tmder the wing, and fixed on the point of a skewer, with the bill laid straight along the breast. In this case the crop must be removed through a slit made for the purpose in the back of the neck. Draw the bird, bring the thigh close under the wing, pass a skewer through the pinion, the body, and the leg, and skewer and tie the legs firmly down. Piccallilli. — Piccallilli may be made of almost all kinds of vegetables that are used for