FEE < 650 ) FBE meat; for example, saltpetre, acetate of am- monia, sulphiito of potasli, and muriiito of ammonia. Tlio smokinfj; of meat or lisli by exposuro to tho vapour of poat, wood, &c., is choniicully aubjocting them to the action of tho croosoto of the empyreumatic oil of the nmoko, Tho preservation of provisions by means of salt, sugar, spices, vinegar, spirit, and fumiga- tion by burning wood, have tho diviwback of being pai-tly chemical additions to food, and also of inducing chemical changes, which, to a certain extent, influence the digestibility of tho article. Salt, also, as wo have hinted, draws out from the moat some of its chief nourishing constituents. Liebig, in his " Chemistry of Food," remarks:—"It is universally known that in the salting of meat the flesh is rubbed and sprinlded with dry salt, and that where the salt and meat ai-e in contact a brine is formed, amounting in bulk to one-third of the fluid contained in the raw flesh. I have ascertained that this brine contains the chief constituents of a concentrated soup, or infu- sion of meat, and that therefore, in the process of salting, the composition of the flesh is changed, and this, too, in a much greater degree than occurs in boiling. In boiling, the highly nutritious albumen remains in the mass of the flesh; but in salting, the albimien is sepai-ated from the flesh; for when the brine from salted meat is heated to boiling, a large quantity of albumen separates as a coagulum. "It is now easy to understand that, in the salting of meat, when this is pushed so far as to produce the brine above mentioned, a num- ber of substances are withdrawn from the flesh which are essential to its constitution, and that it therefore loses in nutritive quality in pro- portion to this abstraction. If these substances be not supplied from other quarters, it is obvious that a part of the flesh is converted into an element of respiration—certainly not conducive to good health. It is certain, more- over, that the health of a man cannot be per- manently sustained by means of salted meat, if the quantity be not greatly increased, inas- much as it cannot perfectly replace, by the substances it contains, those parts of the body which have been expeUed in consequence of the changes of matter, nor can it preserve in its normal state the fluid distributed in every part of the body—namely, the juices of the flesh. A change in the gastric juice, and consequently in that of the products of the digestive process, must be regarded as an inevitable result of the long-continued use of salted meat; and if, during digestion, the substances necessary to the, transformation of that species of food be taken from other parts of the organism, these parts must lose their normal condition." "We come now to the preservation of food by the application of heat. This is the most suc- cessful method yet discovered and practically applied. It is properly termed "preservation in vacuo," and in its leading features is simple enough. Tho first simple process consisted in placing meat with a charge of water in a tin case with a small aperture, or "pin-hole" at the top, and then laying it in boiling water nearly up to its top ; when the steam has dis- placed tho air the hole is stopped up with solder. This process has been improved upon, anil there are now four methofls, in a sense distinct from each other, of applyiiig heat to tlie vessels, and perfecting the preservation of their contents. These are—flrst, the ordinary Aljordoen process; second, the steam retort process; tlurd, tho clilorido of calcium process; and fourth, Jones's iiatent vacuum process. " The older, or ordinary Aberdeen process," says tho authority to whom we are indebted for tho greater part of our information on tliis subject, " is carried out as follows:—The raw meat, with or without a small quantity of fluid, is placed in tins, which are soldered down perfectly air-tight. They are let down on iron frames, or ' gridirons,' by means of pulleys into baths of boUing water, raised to a liigher tem- perature by the addition of salt, and kept there for a certain time, according to the size of the tins; the first bath of a six-pound tin, for instance, requiring two hours and a half. At the expiration of this time they are removed, and placed on a table near the bath, and tho expanded air and vapour are let out through a minute aperture in the lid of the tin. This is done by one of the workmen touching with a hot iron the small piece of solder placed over the aperture, or ' pin-hole,' originally made in the lid. The steam at once rushes out, but within a few seconds another workman follows, and again solders down the ' pin-hole.' This part of the process is, in the vernacular, caUed ' brogging.' The tins are then returned to the boiling brine for the same time as before, when they are again ' brogged.' Once more they are returned to the bath, and afterwards with- drawn, and stood to cool, and the process is complete. It may be here mentioned that some of the beef and mutton is partially baked or roasted before being placed in the tins, and these are labelled as ' roast' beef or mutton, as distinguished from the boiled, though the dif- ference, practically, when tasted, is verj^ sUght. "The steam retort process, as adopted by Messrs. Hogarth, who have by it preserved from time to time a large quantity of meat for our Government at the Deptford Victualling Yard, consists in placing the tins, with the ' pin-hole' open, in what may be called a steam-tight retort, into which steam is allowed to pass, producing a pressure of something Uke 230 degrees. After an hour and a half or two hours, they are taken out, and the ' pin-hole' soldered down. They are then placed in the retort for an hour or an hour and a half, at a temperature of about 240 degrees, axid then taken out and cooled. " The chloride of calcium process consists in placing the tins, with the ' pin-hole' open, to about one-half or two-thirds their depth in a bath of solution of chloride of calcium, by which a temperature may be gained of froni 260 to 270 degrees. This temperature is only gradually arrived at, and for three or four hours the steam escapes from the tins at the ' pin-holes.' The tins are then soldered down, but are continued in this bath for a further period before they are taken out to cool. In carrying out the above briefly-described pro- cesses, manufacturers may vary a little in details, some using a higher temperature than