1177 APPENDIX. C0N8OMME.—strong, clear griivy obtained hj sti'vving meat for a considerable length of time. Ooiu.is.—A rich, smooth gravy used for colouring, flavouring, and thickening certain soups and sauces. Ckoquettes. — A savoury mince of fish, meat, or fowl, made with a little sauce into various shapes, roUed in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried crisp. CouRONNE, En.—To serve any prescribed ai-ticles on a dish in the form of a crown. Croustacles.—Also known as Dresden patties. They are composed of mince encased in. paste, and moiilded into various forms. Croustades.—Fried forms of bread to serve minces or other meats upon. CroOton.—A sippet of bread fried, and used for garnish. Cuisine MAsauEE.—Highly seasoned or un- usually mixed dishes. CuissoN.—Method of cooking meats, or the liquor in which they have been boiled. Dariole.—A sweet pate baked in a mould. Daube.—Meat or fowl stewed in sauce. Daubiere.—An oval stewpan. DejeOner a la Fourchette. — Breakfast with meats, wines, &c. Desosser.—To bone. Dorure.—Yolks of eggs well beaten for covering meat and other dishes. Entree.—A comer-dish for the first course. Entremet. — A side-dish for the second course. Escalopes.—CoUops. EspAGNOLB.—A rich brown Spanish sauce. Fagot. — A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay-leaf. Farce.—Forcemeat. Feuilletage.—Puff paste. Financiers.—^Anexpensive,highly flavoured, mixed ragoAt. Flamber.—To singe fowl or game after pick- ing. I'LAN.—A French custard. Flancs.—The side-dishes of large dinners. FoNCER.—To put in the bottom of a saucepan thin slices of veal or bacon. Fondue.—A light and pleasant preparation of cheese. Fricandeaux may bo made of any boned pieces of veal chiefly cut from the thick part of the fillet, and of not more than two or three pounds weight. Fricass^.e.—Chickens, &c., cut in pieces in a white sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, &c., as accessories. Fritter.—Anything encased in a covering of batter or eggs, and fried. GAf EAu.—A pudding or baked cake. Gaufpres.—A light, spongy sort of biscuit. Glaze.—Stock boiled down to the thickness of jelly, and used to improve the appearance of braised dishes. Uodiveaux.—Various varieties of forcemeat. Gras.—With, or of meat: the reverse of 1)1(1 igre. Gratin.—Au Gratin.—A term applied to certain dishes prepared with sauce and baked. Gratiner.—To cook like a grill. Haricot.—So called from the French word for beans, with which the dish was originally made. Now understood as any thick stew, or ragout of mutton, beef, or veal, cut in pieces, and dressed with vegetables and roots. Hors-d'oeuvres.—Small dishes of sardines, anchovies, and other relishes. Lardiniere.—Vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Lardon.—The piece of bacon used in larding. Liaison.—The mixture of egg and cream used to thicken white soups, &c. Lit.—Thin slices in layers. Luting.—A paste to fasten lids on pie-pans for preserving game. Madeleines.—Small plum cakes. Maigre.—Without meat. Marinade.—The liquor in which fish or meat is steeped. Mask.—To cover meat with any rich sauce, ragout, &c. Matelote.—A rich fish stew with wine. Mayonnaise.—Cold sauce, or salad dressing. Mazarines, or Turbans. — Ornamental entrees of forcemeat and fillets of poultry, game, or fish. Menu.—The bill of fare. Meringue.—Light pastry made of sugar and the white of eggs beaten to " snow." Mignonnette Pepper. — Coarsely gi'oimd peppercorns. Miroton.—Small thin slices of meat about as large as a croAvn jjiece made into ragouts of vaiious kinds, and dished up in a circular form. Mouiller.—To add broth, water, or other liquid while the cooking is proceeding. Nougat.—Almond candy. Nouilles.—Strips of paste made of eggs and flour. Panada.—Soaked bread used in the prepara- tion of French forcemeat. Paner.—To cover with bread-crumbs fried or baked food. Papillote, En.—^The pieces of paper greased with oil and butter, and fastened round a cutlet^ &c., by twisting it along the edge. Pate.—A small pie. Paupiettes.—Slices of meat rolled. PifecE DE Resistance.—The principal joint of the dinner. Pilau.—A dish of meat and rice. PiQUER.—To lard with strips of bacon fat, &c. PoEL^E.—Stock for boiling turkeys, fowls, vegetables, instead of water, so as to render them less insipid. Potage.—Soup. pRiNTANiERs.—Early spring vegetables.