RAP HAD ( 699 ) cold water for an hour. Serve them in a circle on a plate with the st<xlk end outwards, and a salt-cellar in the centre. Radishes are very commonly added to salads. KADISHIIS. Radish. Drawing.—The time of drawing radishes is by no means indifferent. They eat in the greatest perfection if pulled in the morning, before the sun has attained any power, and laid in a cool damp place until wanted. The bed should have a plenteous watering the morning before that on which they are taken, but none afterwards until subsequent to the drawing. In November, those wanted for winter must be taken up during dry weather and preserved in sand. ""Writers of antiquity," says Soyer, " notice three kinds of radishes : the large, short, and thick; the round ; and the wild. They fancied that, at the end of three years, the seed of this plant produced very good cabbages, which must have been rather vexatious at times to honest gardeners who might have preferred radishes. " The Romans preserved radishes very well by covering them with a paste composed of honey, vinegar, and salt." Radish, Horse.—Wash the horseradish thoroughly, and lay it in cold water for an hour. Scrape it into fine curly shreds with a sharp knife, and use it to garnish various dishes. It is a frequent accompaniment to roast beef and to many kinds of fish. Radish Pods, To Pickle (a simple recipe).—Gather the pods when the seeds within them are fully grown, but soft, i.e., when they are in the condition of green peas. Wash them in salted water, put them into glass bottles or unglazed jars, and pour cold vinegar over them. As the vinegar becomes absorbed, add more, and when the jars are full and the vinegar no longer shrinks, tie down closely, .and store in a dry place. The advantage of pickling the pods in this way is that they can be taken from the garden, and put into the bottles as they become ready for use. If liked, a blade of mace, an ounce of ginger, and half an ounce of pepper may be put with each pint of vinegar. Radish Pods, To Pickle (a superior recipe).—Gather the pods when quite young, and lay them in strong brine for twenty-four hours. Drain the brine from them, boil it, pour it upon them boiling hot, and keep the jar well covered to keep in the steam. When the brine is cold boil it again, and continue this until the pods are green. Drain the pods, put them into glass bottles or unglazed jars, pour over them as much boiling vinegar as will cover them, and when this is cold, boil it a second time, and pour over the pods, which must be well covered with the vinegar. When the pickle is quite cold, tie the jars closely, and store in a cool dry place. A blade of mace, an ounce of whole ginger, and an ounce of pepper may be boUed with each pint of vinegar. Radish Sauce.—Peel and grate the radishes, and mix them with a Httle oil, -vinegar, salt, and pepper. This sauce is an excellent accompaniment to cold meat. If liked, a third of the quantity of radishes in scraped horse- radish, and as much minced beetroot may be mixed with the grated radish. Radish Sauce, Horse (a German recipe).—Take a piece of butter the size of an egg, beat it up with half a table-spoonful of flour, thin it with a cupful of warm broth, place it on the fire to boil, stirring it all the time; stir in two table-spoonfuls of grated horse-radish, let it heat but not boil, add a little salt, and serve. Vinegar may be added if liked. Radish, Varieties of.—The varieties of radish in cultivation are extremely numerous ; they are usually classed, however, under the two well-known heads of long-rooted and tur- nip-rooted radishes, the roots of the former resembling the carrot in shape, those of the latter the turnip. The varieties present marked differences, not only in the form of root but in colour and size. The prevailing colour is red. Some of the darker-coloured turnip-rooted radishes grow to the size of a man's head. The common radish is a native of Asia, from the coasts of the Mediterranean to Japan, and has been cultivated in China, India, and Europe from the most ancient times. Radish, Wholesomeness of the. — The radish is generally considered a pleasant stimulating condiment; it is, however, an article of diet which most dyspeptic patients would do well to avoid. Radish-juice mixed with sugar- candy is a popular and useful German remedy for hoarseness and cough. Raffald's Browning.—Beat to powder four ounces of tine lump sugar; put it into a clean iron frying-pan with one ounce of butter. Set it over a clear fire, and mix itweU together. When it begins to be frothy, the sugar is dissolving; then hold it higher over the fire, and have ready a pint of red wine. When the sugar and butter are of a deep brown, poirr in a little of the wine, stir it thoroughly together, gradually add the rest of the wine, and