WjSL ( 1106 ) It is likewise well to have a Bet of wooden meusuits, from a bushel down to a quarter of a peck. Let it be remembered that of liquid measure— Two gills are half a pint. Two i)iut8 are one quart. Four quarts are one gallon. Of dry measure— Half a gallon is a quarter of a peck. One gallon is half a peck. Two gallons are one peck. Four gallons are half a bushel. Eight gallons are one bushel. About twenty-tive drops of any thin liquid will till a common-sized tea-spoon. A common tumbler holds half a pint. Four table-spoonfuls, or half a gill, will fill a common wine-glass.. Four wine-glasses will fill a half-pint or common tumbler, or a large coffee-cup. _ A quart black bottle holds in reality about a pint and a half. Of flour, butter, sugar, and most articles used in cakes and pastry, a quart is generally about equal in quantity to a pound avoirdupois (six- teen ounces). Ten eggs generally weigh one pound before they are broken: A tea-spoonful of salt or brown sugar is gene- rally about one ounce. The following table may be added, by whicli persons not having scales or weights at band may readily measure the articles wanted to form any recipe, without the trouble of weigh- ing. Allowance must be made for any extra- ordinary drjuess or moisture of the articles weighed or measured. Wheat flour . . . 1 lb. is I qt. Indian meal . . . 1 lb. 2 oz. is 1 qt. Butter, when soft . . 1 lb. is 1 qt. Loaf sugar broken'. .,. .1 lb. is 1 qt. White sugar powdered .' -1 lb. 1 oz. is 1 qt. Best brown sugar . . 1 lb. 2 oz. is 1 qt. Eggs . . . .10 eggs are 1 lb. . Flour .... 8 qts. are 1 peck. Flour .... 4 pecks are 1 bush. "Welsh Ale, Fine.—Boil fifty gallons of river water for an hoTir, withdraw the fire, and when the steam has gone off pour it upon seven bushels of fresh-ground malt; cover close, and let it infuse for half an hour. Stir or mash up twenty minutes at least, cover again close, and leave it for two hoiu"S. Infuse four poimds of good Worcester hops in half a gallon of hot water one hour ; put it into the tub, and let the wort nm upon it from the mash; do not press the grains, but boil the wort with the hops slowly but continually two hours, adding two hand- fids of table-salt the last ten minutes. Strain the wart into your cooler, and work it at the proper temperature (70° Fahr.) with two quarts of good fresh ale-yeast, stirring well twenty minutes. If the weather be cool, cover it up, and in three days fill a thirty-six gallon barrel, covering the bung-hole with a tile, and filling up with the liquor. When the fermentation has entirely ceased, put into the cask a pound of white sugar candy, and a pint of old wheat tied in a muslin bag; then bung it up, paste coarse linen over the bung, and heap sand upon that. Let it stand twelve months, and it will b(! excellent and beautifully line. Welsh Ale, Strong.-Boil eighty-two gallons of river water an hour, and when tho steam has subsided pour it upon twelve buhhehs of pnme newly-ground malt; cover close, and when it has infused one hour mash up for twenty minutes, and let it stand two hours longer. Pour two gallons of boiling water on nine pounds of the best Kent hops, cover close and lot it stand an hour; then put it into the tub, and run the wort upon it. Stir well, and boil all together two hours, or more if you choose, but this is long enough for all purjjoses- add two or three handfuls of table-salt at the last, and when cool enough strain the wort into your cooler, and work it with good fresh yeast. Cover with cloths if the weather is cold, and in three days fill your hogshead; and putting the bung on lightly, or covering with paper and a slate, let it work out. Fill up the cask night and morning; and when fermenta- tion has ceased dry two poimds of the spent hops before the fire gradually, and put nearly two- thirds of them into the ale. Bung up well, and keep it three years, it will then be fit to drink; and the latter part, if carefully bottled, will be admirable in two years more. "This recipej" says Mr. Robinson, " is from the original of a respectable woman, who during a long series of years was accounted the best brewer in North Wales. She preferred March to brew in, unless the weather was severe, to October." Welsh Beef.—A round of beef prepared in this way wiU keep for two months in cold weather, and constitute a good standing dish. If the quantity for which the recipe is written is too large, a small roxmd weighing eighteen or twenty pounds may be taken, or a part of a round of the weight that is required, and cooked in the same way. Half a round might lie in j the salt ten days or a fortnight, instead of three I weeks. Take a round of beef weighing from twenty-five to thirty pounds, rub two ounces of saltpetre into it, and let it he for an hour. Rub it well with a powder made of one pound of common salt, one ounce of white pepper, one ounce of moist sugar, one nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce of pounded mace, and a quarter of an ounce of poimded cloves. Lay the meat in a pickling-pan, rub the ingredients into it, and turn and rub them every day for three weeks. Wash the meat in cold water, and let it dry. Skewer it into a round form, and bind with tape. Put it into an earthen pan with plenty of chopped suet under and over it, pour a cupful of water or stock round it, ccTver the vessel with a coarse paste of flour and water, and bake the beef in a moderate ovon tiU tender. Pour off the gravy, and let the beef stand till cold. This gravy will when strained form an excellent foundation for soup. The beef will have a much better appearance if it is pressed under a heavy weight for some hours after being taken from the oven, and bnishcd over twice with liquid gliize. The glaze mav bo made of anv strong clear gnry boiled quickly until it thickens when dropped from the spoon; or a small quantity may be bought of the grocer, dissolved in the usual