SHE SHE ( 859 ) 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient, three or four for a dish (see Mutton Kidneys). Sheep's Kidneys, Broiled (superior). —Broil the kidneys as before. Lay them on a dish with the hoUow part uppermost, and put in the centre of each a tea-spoonful of savoury butter prepared as follows:—Put two oimces of fresh butter into a plate, and work into it with a silver or wooden spoon a dessert-spoon- ful of finely-chopped parsley, half a tea-spoon- ful of green onions chopped small, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt. Serve immediately. If preferred, a tea-spoon- ful of tartar sauce {see Tartar Sauce) may be put into the hollow of the kidney, and Harvey's or Worcester Sauce may be served with it. i Time to broil the kidneys, eight to twelve minutes. Probable cost, kidneys 4d. to 6d. each, j Sheep's Kidneys, BroHed (M. Ude's ' recipe).—Take some kidneys that have been kept for a while, cut them in two, and remove the thin skin that covers them, use a small skewer to keep them open, in imitation of two shells; powder them over with a little pepper and salt, dip them into a little melted butter, and broil them just as you are going to serve up. Broil the side that j'^ou have cut open ' first; when you broil the other side, the whole of the gravy issues to the upper part. Mind when you take them off the fire that the gravj' does not drop off. Have some parsley chopped very fine and mixed with fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt ; put a little of that mixture over each kidney, and send up to table in a hot dish. N.B.—Kidneys are an excellent breakfast for sportsmen, but are seldom sent up for dinner. They must be eaten directly, as they lose their goodness by waiting. They have also the disadvantage of being uneatable if they are too much done; and he who cannot eat meat underdone should not have them at his table. Sheep's Kidneys, Stewed.—Skin and halve half a dozen sheep's kidneys, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Fry these in butter tiU they are lightly browned, dredge a little flour over them, pour in a glassful of sherrj', and add a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a finely-minced shallot, three or four mushrooms chopped small, a tea-spoon- ful of lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the preparation over the fire for five or six minutes, and serve very hot. Time, twenty minutes. Probable cost, kidneys, 4d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sheep's Kidneys with Champagne. —Take six or twelve kidneys, according to the quantity that you wish to dress; remove the skins, and mince them the thickness and size of a halfpenny ; have a little bit of lean bacon cut in small squares ; fry them in an omelet-pan with a very small bit of butter; when the bacon is of a good colour, put in the kidneys, taking care to move the pan frequently to fry them equally; when they are done, strew over them a little salt and pepper, some parsley chopped very fine, a very small bit of shallot, well chopped also, and pour over all a little flour-, stir up with a wooden spoon, then moisten with a glassful of white champagne or chablis (neither madeira nor sherry), which should be very hot, but do not let it boil, otherwise the kidneys will not be eatable; add a little lemon and a little cayenne, and observe that such dishes should be well seasoned. Serve the kidneys first in the dish with a hollow spoon, and let the sauce have one boil to cook the flour ; mind that the sauce be judi- ciously thick to add to the meat, but not too thick. Sheep's Liver (a la Fran9aise). — Cut some slices of Ever half an inch thick, and lay them neatly in a stewpan slightly buttered; sprinkle pepper and salt over the upper sides. Slice two ounces of fat bacon as finely as possible, chop a tea-spoonful of parsley and a small shallot very fine, and spread them evenly over the liver; cover the stewpan closely, and set it on a fire so moderate that it will di-aw out all the juices without simmering — the least approach to this hardens the liver and spoils it. If the range is too hot, set the stewpan on an iron stand. When the liver has thus stood for an hour and a half it will be done. Take it up, put it on a hot dish, and cover it closely whilst you boil the bacon and the gravy together for two minutes : then pour over the liver, and serve immediately. Liver cooked in this manner is digestible, and can be eaten by persons who could not venture to do so when it is fried. Sheep's Liver, Fried.—Soak the liver,. and cut it in slices the third of an inch thick. Dry each slice thoroughly with a soft cloth, flour it well, and sprinkle pepper and salt with- a little chopped parsley over it. Heat a little dripping in the frying-pan, put in the Hver,. and fry it very gently till tender. Turn it occasionally, that it may be equally cooked. When done enough, lift it upon a hot dish, and pour off the fat from the frying-pan. Mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly with a little cold water, add half a pint of boiling stock or water, and pour the mixture into the pan. Stir Tariskly till it boils, and add a Uttle browning, a spoonful of store sauce, and a little pepper and salt. Let it boil a minute or two, then strain it over the Hver in the dish. Serve very hot. If liked, a large onion may be sliced and fried with the liver and laid upon it in the dish. Time, about half an hour. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Sufficient, one pound of liver for two or three persons. Sheep's Mince.—Wash and soak a sheep's heart and liver. Cleanse them tho- roughly, plunge them into boiling water, and simmer gently about half an hour. Take them up, let them cool, and mince finely. Dissolve a small lump of butter in a saucepan, work into it a little flour to make a smooth paste, stir it briskly over the fire until it is lightly browned. Mix with it as much of the liquor in which the liver and heart were boiled as will make sauce of the consistence of thick cream. Add pepper and salt and a dessert-spoonful of chopped onion. Put in the mince, and simmer aU gently- together imtil done enough. Stir in a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup or any good store sauce, and serve very hot. The remains-