VEA ( 1064 ) VEA The broad ond of the ehouldor must then ho turned and skowored over the forcemeat. Tie a piece of oiled or greased paper over the joint, hang it tolerably near a clear fire, and at the end of twenty minutes draw it back and roast it gently until done enough. Baste every quarter of an hour. Twenty minutes l)eforo it is taken up removo the paper, dredge the joint ■svith floui-, and baste till it is nicely browned. Place it on a dish, pom- good brown sauce round it, and servo with a cut lemon on a plate. Send ham or bacon to table with it. Time to roast a shoulder of veal, three hours to three hours and a half. Probable cost, 8id. per poimd, if bought whole. Veal, Shoulder of, Stuffed and Stewed. — Kemovo the blade-bono from a slioulder of veal. Season the inside with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, sprinkle over it minced savoury herbs, such as parsley and chives, together -with a few mushrooms, and spread over these thin slices of ham or bacon. KoU the veal, and bind it tightly with tape. Put it in a saucepan which will just hold it over a clear fire with a slice of butter or a piece of dripping, and turn it about till lightly browned all over, or, if preferred, roast it for an hour and a half. Take it up, put it into a deep dish, cover with good stock, and add two onions, a sliced carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, and a httle pepper and salt. Stew the veal very gently in a moderate oven till it is so tender that a skewer will pierce it easily. Strain and skim the gravy, and thicken a portion of it with a little brown thickening. Place the veal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Stewed mushrooms, green peas, and various kinds of dressed vege- tables may be served with this dish. Some cooks, instead of first browning the meat, put it at once into a dish, pour stock over it, surround it -with herbs, onions, carrots, &c., then cover the dish with a coarse paste of flour and water, and bake the veal in a moderate oven. Though the taste of the veal thus dressed is excellent, its appearance is not so good as when it is browned as above. Time to bake the veal, a shoulder which weighs ten pounds before it is boned will need five hours. Probable cost, 8^d. per pound. Veal Soup. — Tako two pounds of the knuckle of veal. Divide it into three or four pieces, and put these into a stewpan with any bones or trimmings of veal or poultry that may be at hand, and add a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a few cuter sticks of celery, an onion with a clove stuck into it, a small blade of mace, six or eight peppercorns, a little salt, and two table-spoonfuls of rice. Pour over these ingredients about five pints of cold stock or water, and let the soup simmer gently from three to foiu: hours. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Strain the stock, season and fiour as much of it as may be required for table with salt, white pepper, lemon-juice, and pounded mace, and thicken with white thickening. If prefoired, this soup may be served with the boiled rice in it, and with sippets or forcemeat balls. The veal may be cut into neat pieces and served with parsley and butter or egg sauce. Veal Soup ( a Geman recipe).—Should the breast of veal bo chosen, allow one pound to every quart of water; in the case of knuckle of veal, allow two pounds to the quart. Let the water come slowly to the simmering point, add salt, and skim well; continue simmering for at least two hours. Add lice, sago, or kliisso to give the soup substance. Ten minutes before sending to table, add in small pieces cauliflower, scorzonera, or asparagus, previously cooked. Finely-minced chives may be thrown in the last thing, or an onion may be boiled in the soup, and taken out before the other vegetable is added. Veal Soup (a plain family dish).—Take about four pounds of the knuckle of veal, and cut it into five or six pieces, sawing through the bones neatly. Put these in a stewpan, pour over them as much cold water as will freely cover them, and let the liquor boil. Skim carefully, draw it to the side, and let it simmer for an hour. Throw in with it five or six tur- nips, two onions, and a few outer sticks of celery, and let it simmer gently for another hour. Mix a table-spoonful of flour or groimd rice to a smooth paste with cold water, stir a little of the boiling liquor into it, and add it to the rest. Let it boil a short time longer. Half an hour before the soup is to be served throw into it a pinch of powdered mushrooms, six or eight sliced potatoes; and ten or fifteen minutes before it is served put in half a dozen small dumplings. Add pepper and salt to taste. Serve the veal on a dish with the dumplings and vegetables round it, and send the soup to table in a tureen. If liked, a little sugar browning may be added to the soup to colour it. Time,, three hours to simmer the soup. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for seven or eight per- sons. Veal Soup with Rice or Forcemeat Balls.—The veal is to be blanched in the usual way, but the water in which it has been seethed is not to be thrown away, as it contains some of the strength of the meat; but take out the meat, clean it, and lay it in cold wat€r to become perfectly white. Then pass the water used in the boiUng through a sieve, pour it over the veal, and boil the whole together. Having clarified the liquor by skimming, add a piece of butter, some salt, and half a lemon, which tastes excellently with rice; on 8er\-ing, beat eggs into the liquor, to which add rice mixed with a piece of butter, and mace grated over it: it makes a very beautiful strong soup. When forcemeat balls are used instead of the rice, they should be boiled in a basin, and added to the soup, along with the meat and vegetable roots; beating up the soup with eggs, and gniting nutmeg over it. Veal Stew.—Take about four pounds of veal, the chump end of the loin, or part of the leg, or a portion of the breast from which the bones have been removed will answer excel- lently for the purpose. Cut it into neat piece* about two inches square, or if preferred let ifc