SAL SAL (816 ) is to be washod in water, and a fine thin Hkiii that covers it to bo taken oft" with a BnuiU brush; or, by dipping in hot water, it will come otf with a coarse linen cloth. When a sufficient quantity of the roots is thus cleaned, they are to bo spread on a tin plato, and sot into an oven heated to the degree of a bread- oven, where they are to remain six, eight, or ten minutes, in which time they will have lost their milky whiteness, and have acquired a transparency like that of horn, but without being diminished in size. When they are ar- rived at this state, they may be removed to another room to dry and harden, which will be done in a few days; or they may bo finished in a very slow heat in a few hours. I have tried both ways with success. The orchis suited for the purpose grows spontaneously throughout the whole kingdom. It flourishes best in a dry sandy, barren soil. As the method of cul- tivating this root is so easy, I hope it will encourage the cultivation of so nutritive a vegetable. Its quality of thickening water is to that of fine flour nearly as two and a half to one, with this difference, that the jelly of saloop powder is clear and transparent, whereas that of flour is turbid and white." Dr. Percival, in his " Medical and Experimental Essays," men- tions that a mixture of mucilage of saloop with flour makes an excellent bread. Salpicons.—Salpi9ons are elegant little trifles composed of a mixture of poultry, game, fish, forcemeat, sweetbreads, ham, tongue, or foie gras, together with mushrooms, trufiies, artichokes, &c. The varit)us materials should be cooked separately, cut into dice, and heated in thick brown or white sauce, whichever is most suitable for them. The remains of meat and vegetables are frequently served in this way. Salpi9ons may either be served in a dish, ■with the different iAgredients divided by small sippets into compartments, then covered over •with bread-crumbs, and browned ; or they may be put into little patties, and served on a napkin neatly garnished with parsley. The latter is the more usual method. To prepare these patties, make some good puff paste; stamp it into small roimds with a cutter, two inches in diameter, put these on ice for a few minutes, then brush them over with beaten egg to glaze them. Dip a smaller cutter into hot water, and stamp the rounds through one- third of the thickness of the pastrj'. Bake the patties in a quick oven. When they are done, lift off the cover which was formed by the smaller cutter, and smooth the pastry. Have ready whatever is to form the contentb of the patties. Heat it in sauce, but on no account allow it to boil, or the meat will be hard; fiU the patties, put on the covers again, and serve. In large families, where a number of dishes are constantly prepared, the cost of salpicons consists principally in the trouble they take to prepare. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Salsify.—Salsify, which is the root of a plant sometimes called the "Oyster Plant" and " Purple Goat's Beard," is excellent when cooked. It is not so generally knoAvn as | it deserves to be. It is understood to possess stimulating properties. It may be cooked in various ways: it may be boiled and served with wliito maitro d'hotel, Dutch, onion, or Italian sauce; or it may be fried in batter, or stewed or scalloped, or made into croquettes. When fried, the salsifies are often served round boiled fish, and ruUier resemble fried smelts in taste. 1'he only inconvenience attending the use of salsify is tliat it requires to be boilwi for at least an hour to make it tender, and to re- move a cei-tain bitter flavour which appertains to it unboiled. The leaves of the plant ouglit to bo fresh, and the roots firm and black. To prepare the roots for dressing, cut off the ends of each, and scrape oft' the outer rind till the flesh is reached, which somewhat resembles the parsnip in colour and appearance. Rub them with lemon-juice or vinegar, and throw them into cold water until they are to be dressed. They will be better for lying in this for an hour or two, and will impart to the water a tinge of reddish brown. Exposure to the air in scrapiag or after boiling makes them turn black. The remains of salsify which has been boiled one day may be fried the next. Salsify roots, if left in the ground, will in the spring send up stout green shoots, which will be foimd excellent boiled. They are to be eaten like asparagus. Salsify (a la Creme).—Boil the roots tOl tender, or take the remnants of dressed salsify, and divide them into inch lengths. Dissolve a slice of butter in a saucepan, and work into this as much flour as it will take. When the paste is quite smooth, and before it is at all coloured, moisten with milk or cream, season with salt and cayenne, and stir it over the fire till it coats the spoon. Put in the slices of salsify, let them get hot, and dish in a pyramid form on a hot dish. Add a spoonful of lemon-juice to the sauce, pour it over the roots, and garnish with fxied sippets. Time altogether, one hour and a half. Salsify, Boiled.—The roots are boiled like carrots, or half boiled and grated fine, made into flat small patties, dipped in batter, and fried like oysters, which they strongly resemble ; hence the frequent name for salsify of vegetalale oyster. The yoimg flower-stalks, if cut in the spring of the second year, and dressed like asparagus, are not xmlike the latter, and make an excellent dish. Salsify, Boiled (another way).—Scrape the roots gently, so as to strip them only of the outside peel. Then cut them into pieces of iin equal size, about four inches, and throw them into water with a little vinegar or lemon- juice, to prevent their getting black, ^^'hen you have scraped a sufficient quantity, boil them in water enough for them to swim with ease ; put a httlt salt, a small bit of butter, and the juice of a lemon. They will generally be done in three-quarters of an hoiu-; yet it le better to ascertain the fact by taking a piece out of the water, and trying with a kn^e whether they are done enough, which is the case when the knife penetrates easily. Drain the salsifies, and send them -with whatever sauce you think proper. They are genoraUy served with veloute or French melted butter.