SIC SIC ( 876 ) again, and remove the scum as bcfuie. If by this time it is not perfectly clear, the same quantity of water may be added a second time, which will cause more scum to rise. The same remarks apply to all other broths and gravies, which wiU always be transparent and finely flavoured if the same rule be observed. Beef tea should be allowed to simmer not less than three-quarters of an hour, and not more than one hour, from the time it is last skimmed. Bread Pudding, Light.—Vom: some boiling-hot milk on a few thin slices of white bread or the crumb of Fi-ench rolls; when cold beat up one whole egg and the yolks of two others, mix them well with the bread, adding a small por- tion of grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and as much white powdered sugar as will make it palatable. A few picked currants may be sometimes added. Put the preparation into a pudding-basin shghtly rubbed over with butter, and cover the top with a piece of buttered paper; then place the basin in a saucepan containing boiling water, and let the pudding steam for half an hour or more, according to its size. Broth, Clear.—The following is a clear broth that will keep long. Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating with only as much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to be used give what flavour may be approved. Broth for Invalids.—This may be made in the same way as restorative meat jelly {see Meat Jelly, Restorative), with an old fowl cut in pieces -svith its own weight in gravy beef. It must only, however, be allowed to simmer two hours. Broth, Quickly Made.—Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, and take oft" the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover with three-quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quickly, skim it nicely; take off the cover if Ukely to be too weak, else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. Cahes'-Feet Broth.—Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half; strain, and set it by. When to be used take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan with half a glassful of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and beat it up till it is ready to boil; then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon into it. Calves'.Feet Broth (another way).—Boil two calves' feet, two ounces each of veal and beef the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of inace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt in throe quarts of water to three pints; strain, and take off the fat. Calves Feet Boil two calves' feet in four quarts of water for five hours, then strain tho liquor through a hair sieve, and the next day take off all the fat. Whisk the whites and shells of throe eggs in a stewpan, then put in the jelly, and Mfld a small piece of cinnamon. the thin peel of two lemons and the juice of tliree, with about six or seven ounces of loaf sugar. Put the stewpan on a brisk fire, and whisk its contents till on the eve of boiling, then remove the stewpan, cover it closely, and let it remain near the fire for fifteen minutes, taking care not to allow the jelly to boil. Pass it through the bag in the usual way. If wine be tised, it will be better to add it the moment before the jelly is passed through the bag. Caudle.—Make a fine smooth gruel of half- grits; strain it when boiled well, stir it at times tiU cold. When to be used add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine; others like lemon-juice. Caudle (another way).—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a bit of lemon-peel and nutmeg. Caudle (another way).—Into a pint of fine gruel, not ihick, put, while it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glassful of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. This is very agreeable and nourishing. Chicken Broth and Veal Broth.—These are prepared in the same way as beef tea, and may be made of any strength desired by adding more or less water. Chicken and veal broth do not require so much skimming as beef tea. Chicken Broth.—Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken-panada was made of, after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten peppercorns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If there is not water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and when cold remove the fat. Chicken, Minced.—Take the breast of a cold roast chiclfen, and mince it finely. Add half a tea-spoonful of fine flour, together with five or six table-spoonfuls of broth. Season with a pinch of salt. If broth is not at hand, sub- stitute new milk. Chicken or Fowl, To Extract the Essence of.— Proceed in the same way as in the recipe Veal, To Extract the Essence of, taking care to chop the bones in pieces, and lay them in the bottom of the jar, placing the meat on the top of them. Take care that the water in the saucepan does not get into the jar when boiling. " The pure essence of meat thus extracted is invaluable for weak stomachs and where con- siderable nutriment is required in a concentrated form. It is also light, and easy of digestion, compared with more glutinous preparations. A single table-spoonful of the essence can be taken by an invalid, and would afford as much sustenance as a quarter-pint of broth." Chicken Prt'«rtrfa._Take the breast of a cold chicken, and pound it in a mortar to a ver\- fine paste, then put it into a small stewpan, and add to it, gradually, as much boiling-hot broth as will make it of the required consistencv. Season with a little salt. Place the stewpan on the fire, stir tho contents, but do not let them boil.