TBU ( 998 ) pepper and salt. Stir over a gentle firo till they are done enough, wliich will bo in about ton minutes, then pour otf part of the butter, and add an ounce of fresh butter, two tublo- spoonfuls of thick brown gravy, with a httio cayenne, and the juice of half a lonion. Ktir the mixture over the lire until it is on tho point of boiling, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, about twenty minutes. TruflELes (a I'ltalienno — another way). Cleanse thoroughly, dry, and pare eight trulUes, cut them into thin slices, and put them into a baking-dish with a quarter of a pint of Lucwi oil, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, another of powdered mace, and a little pepper and salt. Let them bake gently nearly an hour, squeeze the strained juice of half a lemon over them, and servo very hot. If liked, a clove of garlic may be minced and put with them. Time to bake, one hour. Truffles aux Champagne. — On the subject of truffles prepared in this way, the late Alexandre Dumas' " Dictionnaire Gastrono- mique " waxes enthusiastic. " What," he says, " can be more exhilarating, more divine, than truffles aux Champagne i' Take a pound of truffles, pour a bottle of Ai mousseux into a saucepan; throw in the truffles, together with a little salt, and let them boil in the wine for half an hour; then serve them hot on a snow- white napkin. Who could resist the power of this composition, which charms the palate and tickles the fancy ? How its enchanting aroma caresses, flatters, and rejoices I " Truffles, Bottled.—Soak the truffles for an hour or two in fresh water, wash them well in several waters, brush them until they are quite clean, and pare them. Put them into wide-mouthed and perfectly dry bottles, and put in each bottle a sprig of thyme, a large pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of cold water. Cork the hottles closely, and tie them down secxirely. Wrap a wisp of hay round them to keep them from cracking, put them side by side in a large stewpan, and pour in sufficient cold water to reach up to their necks. Bring the liquor to the boil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and keep it simmering gently for half an hour. Let the bottles remain untouched till they are cold, wax the corks, and store the truffles in a cool place. As English truffles are much cheaper than French ones, it is good economy to bottle them when they are in season for future use. Care should be taken to 1 smell them before bottling, and to reject any that are in tho least musty. They are best in December and January. Time to boil the truffles, half an hour. Truffles, Buisson of.—Choose as many largo round truffles as may be required, cleanse them thoroughly, stew them as for Truffles b. la Serviette, and let them cool m the liquor. Take a stale quartern loaf, cut off the crust and carve the crumb to an oval shape. Place this ui)on a white napkin on a dish, cover with parsley, and stick about a do^en of the truffles aU round it with silver skewera, PUe the rest on the top, and serve. Time to stow the truffles, nearly an hour. Truffles, Capon Roasted with {m Capon roasted with Truffles). Truffles for Garnish.—Truffles which are to ho used for garniKliing various dishes may either be cleaned, pared, and boiled whole, then left to cool in their liquor, or they may be cut up into slices before being boiled. It sliould bo reiiiemlwned that tlie licjuor in which tliey are boiled will be excellent for sauce, and th!),t if well cleaned the parings may be stewed to flavour sauces. Many cooks boil the truffles whole, and afterwards cut them up into dif- ferent shapes before using them for garnisliing. Time to boil moderate-sized truffles for garnish, about a quarter of an houi'. Truffles for Garnish (another way).— See Garnish, Truffles for. Truffles, French.—In Piedmont, white truffles are met with. The best truffles of France come from Perigord and Upper Pro- vence. About the month of January they have theu" highest perfume. Those from Bugey ' have also a high flavour, but cannot be preserved. Those of Burgunay and Dauphiny are of in- ferior quality. They are hard and deficient in farinaceous matter. Truffles, Ortolans Stewed with (see Ortolans Stewed with Truffles). Truffles, Partridges Braised with (see Partridges Braised with Truffles). Truffles, Potted.—Wash, brush, peel, and slice si-x. ounces of fresh truffles. Dissolve a pound of fresh butter; skim it carefully, pour it into a basin, and let it stand two or three minutes, then pour the pure oiled part away from the thick milky substance which will have settled at the bottom. Put the sliced truffles into a delicately-clean stewpan, and pour the butter gently over them. Let it stand until it is set, then put the saucepan on a slow fire, and stew the truffles very gently until they are tender. Lift them into' dry preserving jars, cover them with the butter, and store them in a cool and perfectly dry place. They will keep for months, and will be a most acceptable addition to the breakfast or luncheon table. The butter which remains after the truffles are thoroughly covered, so as to exclude the air, may be potted separately, and may be used for flavouring sauces and various d(!licate pre- parations. Time to stew the truffles, twenty minutes, or more. Truffles, Preserved. — Keep them in well-corked bottles in salad-oil. Truffles, Shoulder of Lamb with {sec Lamb, Shoulder of, with Truflles). Truffles Stewed in Champagne.— Take ten or twelve largo truflles, soak them for a couple of hours, rinse them in several waters, and scrub them thoroughly. Lfiv a thin slice of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in tho truffles, and add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and, if liked, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of green onions, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, a bay-leaf, two or