SYR SYR ( ) Again let it stand till next day, when having heated it as before, but without boiling, Btjuoeze out the llowors while hot, and to every pint of the expressed juice add two pounds of sugar dissolved by standing the pan in boiling water. '• Now set it on the fire, and stir it until the scum I rises; then remove it from the tire, and skim it; repeat this until no more scum rises. Let it now have a single boil, and run it through a \ jolly-bag. When quite cold, bottle it in pint bottles. Syrup of Mulberries (a French recipe). —Gather and pick the fruit before it is quite ripe, that the juice may have a little acidity. Reduce to powder an equal weight of sugar, and place it together with the fruit in a pre- serving-pan ; do not mash the fruit, or it wQl make the juice thick. Set the pan over a very moderate fire; the heat will soon burst the fruit, and by this means the juice will be quite clear. When the sugar is dissolved it will require a few boilings to make the syrup. Strain it through a horsehair sieve without pressing the fruit. The mulberries will remain in the sieve, and the syrup will not need to be clarified. Syrup of Orgeat.—Blanch a pound of sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds; rub them in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding now and then half a table-spoonful of cold water to prevent them from oiling. Mix the paste gradually with three pints of cold water; strain it through a cotton bag, squeezing the bag well to get out all the goodness of the almonds. Mix with this emulsion a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water. Now make a gallon of clarified syrup, pass it through a jelly-bag, set it on the fire, and boil it up. \Vhen approaching to a proper consistence, stir in the emulsion gradually so as to check the bpiling a little. Let it now continue to boil until it is done enough. Put it to cool. Bottle the syrup while still warm, agitating it before you pour it into the bottles. liCt it stand till quite cold before you cork it. To make it keep better, pour a little drop of olive oil on the top of each bottle, which must be quite full, allow- ing not more than half an inch of space between the cork and the liquid. When a bottle is opened, the oil is to removed with a bit of cotton. For another way, see Orgeat Syrup. Syrup of Raspberry. — Mash your raspberries a little immediately after thej' are gathered. Put them into a stone jar with half a pint of the best white-wine vinegar to each pound. Let them stand in a cold cellar during two days. Run the liquor through a hair-sieve, but without forcing through any of the rasp- berry-pulp, and to every pint put a pound and three-quarters of sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, clarify it with white of egg, only heating but not boiling it; then put it on again to boil over a clear brisk fire; skim it as it boils up ; let it boil ten minutes, then stir it till it is quite cold. By mixing a couple of table-spoon- : fuls of this syrup in half a tumbler of water, | and stirring in as much carbonate of soda as j will cover a shilling, the famous effervescent j raspberryade is formed. The pulp of the rasp- i berries may be converted into raapbeiTy jam, the slight flavour of vinegar forming an "agree- able variety. In Germany salad oil is some- times poured on the top of raspberry Byrup before corking : it is said to insuie its keeping for any length of time. For another way of making syrup of raspberry, see liaspberry Syrup. Syrups.—In addition to the above, recipes for the lollowing syrups will be found under tlieii- respective headings: — Almond Gkoseilleh Apricot Jelly, Sykup Clahi- Bauherry fieu for Blackberry Le.mon' Cherries Preserved Lemonade IN Syrup Maraschino Compotes, Syrup for Mulberry Currant Orange Ginger Orange-peel Okanoks in Syrup. Syrups, Fruit.—Some rules for prepar- ing fruit syrups, given by a German expert, are perhaps worth a trial by our readers. To have fruit-juices fit for preservation, it is necessary, in the first place, to select fully-ripe and un- decayed fruit, and after mashing the fruit it should receive an addition of five to ten per cent, of sugar, and then be left to undergo a slight fermentation. The juice after filtration becomes perfectly clear, and is much improved in flavoirr and colour. Raspberries, whortle- berries, currants, cherries, &c., may be thus treated, but the delicate flavour of the straw- berry requires some modification of the process. In this, two pounds of carefully-picked straw- berries—the wild strawberry of the wood is the best—are put into a glass jar with two and a half pounds of white powdered sugar, amd occasionally shaken. The sugar extracts the juice, and the berries shrivel to a dry pulp, and after filtering the syrup is ready for use. Heating must be carefully avoided, as it would at once destroy the fragrance of the fruit. As to cherries, the so-called morella is recom- mended—and by leaving the cracked stones in the pulp, a flavour like that of bitter almonds will be imparted. To make syrup of the fruit- juices prepared as above indicated, our author advises us never to make use of anj' metallic vessels or spoons, and always to take best refined loaf-sugar in lumps, five parts of jviico to eight parts of sugar constituting a good proportion. The lumps of sugar are moistened with just enough water to cause them to dissolve readily, when the remaining juice is added, and the whole is to be rapidly heated to boiling, which, however, must only be con- tinued for a few minutes. With good sugar no skimming is necessary, and filtering through flannel or other woollen cloth wetted in water containing a few drops of sulphuric acid, and weU wrung, will make the sjTup perfectly clear. It is best to fill the preserve jar with the sjTup when cold, but if it has been done when hot, the vessel must be filled up after cooling, as the vapour condenses on the portion of the vessel left empty, and, running down, dilutes the upper stratum of the syrup, and thus makes it more liable to spoil.