POT ( 620 ) POT Potato Bread.—In making bread, a por- tion of inushwl poliito iH somctiinea uddod to thts tiour, and this addition improves the hroiid y«ry much for muuy tastes; it also keeps it from getting' dry quite so soon. At the same time it is not so nutritious as ordinary hoiue- jnade bread. Boil the required quantity of ipotatoes in their skins, drain and dry them, then peel and weigh them. I'ound them with the rolling-pin until they are quite free from lumps, and mi.x. with them the flour, in the pro- portion of seven pounds of flour to two and a half pounds of potatoes. Add the yeast, and knead in the ordinary way, but make up the bretid with milk instead of water. Wb(3n tlie dough is well risen, bake the bread in a gentle oven. Bake it a httle longer than for ordinary bread, and when it seems done enough, let it stand a little while, with the oven door open, before taking it out. Unless these precautions are_ taken, the crust will be hard and brittle, ■while the inside is still moist and doughy. Potato Bread (another way).—Rasp or bruise the potatoes by a rasp or mill, dry the pulp, and reduce it to flour, which may then be made into bread, with the ordinary proportions of yeast. When potato flour is mixed with. wheaten flour in equal proportions, it makes excellent bread, being light, and capable of keeping a long time. Bread made with potato flour alone is not, however, to be compared with wheaten bread. The following is a way of introducing potatoes into wheaten bread : — Boil live pounds of potatoes well, and dry them over a fire or in the oven until they fall to pieces and become flour, which they will do if properly managed. Make of them a batter-like, thick gruel; strain this through a coarse sieve or colander; then mix this instead of water with twenty pounds of flour. If the yeast be good, the bread thus made will be as light and . agreeable as that made of all flour. ^Potato Cake.—Take half a pound of dry Houry potatoes which have been baked or boiled and then crushed and beaten with a roUing- pin until they are quite free from lumps. Mix with them three ounces of flour and a little pepper and salt, and add to them as much luke- warm milk and butter as will make a smooth, firm dough. Add either a little yeast or an •egg, and half a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Roll this paste out till it is about two inches thick, and then dredge a little flour over it. Cut it out to the exact size of the pan in which it is to be baked. Rub the saucepan over with butter or dripping before putting the cake into it, lay it in very carefully, cover with a plate, shake it every now and then to keep it from burning, and bake on the trivet of the stove over a gentle fire. When it is half done on one side, turn it carefully upon the other. Serve on ii hot dish. Cold potatoes, if dry and floury, may be warmed up in this way. Time to bake the cake, about half an hour. Potato Cake (another way).—Peel mealy baked i)otatoes, mash, and put them into a saucepan with salt, gi-ated lemon peel, and fresh butter, stirring the whole well. Add orange-flower water, the yolks of eight eggs, Ihe whites whisked of four, and mix the whole with the potato puree. Pour into a buttered mould, and bako. Potato Cake, Sweet.— Bake the ro- ipiirud number of potatoes, and when th('y an- done enough, burst them, and scoop out the contents with a Ki)oon. Crush them until they are quite smo(jth, find weigh them. Mix witlj half a jjound of potato two ounwis of jjowdorod sugar, a little candied-peel cut into thin strips, and the well-beaten yolks of three (.'ggs. When these ingredients are thoroughly blended, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Put the mixture into a buttered dish, sift a little sugar over the surface, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve the cake hot in the dish in which it was baked. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. ' Sufiicient for four or five persons. Potato Cake, Sweet (another way).— Take a quarter of a pound of boiled potatoes, dry and floury, and beat them to flour. Mix with this one ounce of ground rice, an ounce of sweet almonds and four bitter ones blanched and pounded together, and three ounces of sugar rubbed upon a fresh lemon for a few minutes to extract the flavour and then crushed to powder. Mix these dry ingre- dients thoroughly, and stir into them the well- beaten yolks of five eggs. Beat the mixture for five or six minutes, and add the whites of the eggs beaten to a finn froth. Turn the paste into a well-buttered tin, and bake in a brisk oven for about forty minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for a small cake. Potato Cakes.—Rub two ounces of good beef dripping and two ounces of lard into one pound of flour, add a tea-spoonful of baking- powder, a pinch of salt, and a pound of potato flour wliich has been obtained by scooping out the inside from some hot baked potatoes. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and stir into them a well-beaten egg and as much lukewarm milk as will make a smooth, light paste. Roll this out to the thickness of an inch or an inch and a half, and cut it into squares or rounds. Lay these on a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cakes are lightly browned on one side, turn them upon the other. Cut them open, butter them as soon as they are taken out of the oven, and serve very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Potato Cakes, German, to serve with Game or Poultry.—Beat up two or three pounds of hot boiled potatoes, dry and mealy, with a slice of butter and two or throes eggs. Rub the mash with a wooden spoon until it is quite smooth, imd spread it out in a layer about three-quarters of an inch tliick. Stamp it into shapes with an ordinary pastry- cutter, brush these over with beaten egg, cover with bread-crumbs, and sprinkle lightly upon them a little grated Pannesan. Fry in liot fat till they are lightly browned, drain them on blotting-paper, and serve very hot. If liked, they may be used to garnish the dish they are to accompany. Time, four or five minutes to brown the cakes. Prolmble cost, lOd. Sufficient for foui or five persona.