TIN TIN (971) flour and brown it; then take small pieces about tbree inches square and one inch thick of Australian mutton, pepi>er and salt them, and turn them over and over until well covered in tlour; fry in a Uttle fat, place in the centre of the dish, put the potatoes round and a few over the meat, poui- over the gravy, and serve. A few light dumplings, made with one tea- spoonful of baking powder to a pound of flour, may be served with the stew. 7. Mutton, Hauicot of. Fry pieces of Austi-alian mutton as directed in recipe No. 6, and place in a dish in the centre. Have ready some boiled caiTots, cut them in slices, and fry after the meat; then make a gravy with a little stock, coloured, seasoned, and thickened, which poui- over the carrots in the stewpan. Boil up over the fire, and pour round the meat. 8. Mutton, Curried. Boil one pound of pickled pork in a quart of ■water for three-quarters of an hour with four small onions and a sprig of thyme; then cut into neat sUces the pork and two pounds of Australian mutton : lay the whole in a stewpan. Eeducn the liquor in which the pork was boiled one-half, skim free from fat, mix with it one tea-spoonful of curry powder, pulp the onions with a table-spoonful of flour, slice one sharp apple very thin, and also one tomato, boil ten minutes, put into the currj', stir gently to mix it well without breaking the meat too much, and serve with a rim of boiled rice. 9. Mutton, Dry Curried. Fry a sliced onion till brown in Australian fat; cut Austrahan mutton across the graiu in small dice, mix it with the fried onion, and fry both till hot through, sturing as little as pos- sible ; sprinkle over lightly half a tea-spoonful of curry powder, salt and pepper to taste, mix well together, pour over two table-spoonfuls of milk or cream, stir till dry, and serve. 10. Beei' (auDiable). Cut inch-thick slices, across the grain, of beef, cover them with the following mixture, and fry :—One spoonful of made mustard, ditto chutnee, ditto anchovy, double the quantity of salad oU, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. II- Pudding, Roll. Make a crust of one pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, half a pound of rolled and rubbed suet, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, and water sufficient to make it into not too stiff a paste. EoU it out half an inch thick, and spread over it a layer of minced Australian seasoned with popper and salt, one shallot finely minced, and a quarter of a pound of minced ham or bacon, all mixed thoroughly together. Let this be spread on the paste half an inch thick, then roll up as for a jam roll, tie in a wetted and floured cloth, and boil one hour I and a half ; turn out, garnish with parsley, and serve thick brown gravy over the pudding. 12. Pudding (au Gratin). Mix well together one pound of flour, half a pound of bread-crumbs, one tea-spoonful of baking powder, one pound of mincod Australian, a quarter of a pound of chopped ham or good bacon, pepper, salt, and nutmeg to season, a quarter of a pound of rolled and rubbed suet, two eggs well beaten, and half a pint of milk. Have ready a buttered pudding-basin, pour in the mixtui'e, cover with a wetted and floured cloth, tie down tightly, and boil one hour and a quarter. Serve with rich brown gravy round it. 13. Pudding, Boiled. Make a crust as for No. 11; roll out half an inch thick, line a buttered basin, and put in it small pieces of cross-grain-cut mutton, over the first layer sprinkle pepper and salt, and put thinly-sliced boiled potatoes; repeat alternately until you have fiUed the basin, then pour in a mixture made of a tea-cupful of water or stock, a tea-spoonful of Harvey Sauce, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of chutnee, and a little colouring. Cover up with crust, tie down with a floured cloth, and boil an hour and a half. Serve with a boat of brown gravy. 14. Pudding, Forcemeat. Soak a pound of bread in milk; beat it up smooth with half a pound of forcemeat, the yolks of two eggs, and seasoning if required. When ready to bake, stir in the whites of tho eggs beaten well. Bake in a greased pie-dish half an hour. 15. Forcemeat. Cut a pound of fresh pork into thin slices. Mix two ounces of fine bread-crumbs with a tea-spoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, and ditto of dried and rubbed sage; pour over the meat a tea-cupful of good gravy made from Australian meat. When you have thoroughly mixed the pork and the seasoning, add one pound of Australian mince; mix all well to- gether, and use as required. 16. Forcemeat Balls. Flour your hands: take a table-spoonful of forcemeat, roU into balls, fry in Australian fat about seven minutes. Serve on a napkin with a garnish of parsley and a little good thick brown gravy in a boat. 17. Sausages. Fill small skins with forcemeat highly sea- soned, prick and fry in Australian fat. Serve on buttered toast dipped in hot broth. 18. Pudding, Sausage. Prepare a crust as for No. 11; fill with skinned sausages, pour in half a tea-cupful of good gravy, lay on the top some slices of good bacon fried, cover all with crust; tie, and boil an hour and a half. 19. Sausages, Bologna. Take equal quantities of fat and lean bacon, veal, pork, and beef suet, and double the quan- tity of Australian beef; chop fine in a mincing machine, season with pepper and salt and dried sage rubbed. Have ready a well-washed skin, fill and prick, boil an hour, and lay on straw to dry. These sausages may be smoked like hams. 20. Toad-in-a-Hole Forcemeat. If you have more than will fill a skin of No 19, put a layer in a greased pie-dish, then a layer of beaten-up bread soaked for an hoiw in milk, and so on till the pie-dish is nearly full; pour over it a batter made of five ounces