TUB TUR ( 1002 ) dervod cold with shrimp chutnoy. Tho follow- | ing is a simple and excellent recipe for di-essiufj; cold tui'bot a second time:—Remove tho skin and the bones, and divide the flesh into neat pieces convenient for servinf^. Warm any cold sauce that may be loft, and stir in with it a fourth of its quantity in milk or cream, and add a few di'ops of anchovy essence and a little pepper and salt. Put tho pieces of fish into tlie sauce, and lot them heat through, but do not lot them boil. Serve tho fish very hot. Time, three or four minutes to heat the fish. Turbot, Cold, with Shrimp Chut- ney.—Lift the llesh from the bones, free it from skin, and divide it into neat pieces. Lay it on a dish, garnish with green parsley, and send the following preparation to table with it: —Shell a pint of fresh shrimps, mince them finely, pound them to a smooth paste, and season with cayenne and a little salt if re- quired. Itlix with them lucca oil and best vinegar, enough to make a smooth paste. Tho proper proportions are one spoonful of vinegar to two of oil) but in regard to this individual taste must be consulted. The chutney when finished should be of the consistency of thick boiled custard. A little finely-minced shallot may be added or not. Turbot, Cooking of.—With a celebrated gastronomic philosopher, the turbot is the king of fish, especially in Lent, as it is then of most majestic size. You may serve up salmon with as much ornament as you will, but a turbot asks for nothing but aristocratic sim- plicity. On the day after he makes liis first appearance, it is quite another affair. It may be then disguised; and the best manner of ejBEecting this is to dress him a la Bechamel, a preparation thus called from the Marquis de Bechamel, who, in the reign of Louis XIV. for ever immortalised himself by this one ragout. Turbot Croquettes.—Take the remains of cold turbot; free the flesh from skin and bone, mince finely, season with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, and add an equal weight of bread-crumbs moistened with very thick white sauce—or, failing this, hot milk—a little chopped parsley, and enough butter to form a smooth paste. Form the mixture into small balls or cones. Dip these first into beaten egg, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned aU over. Drain them from the fat, and serve neatly arranged on a napkin. Garnish the dish with parsley, and send good fish sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the croquettes, five or six minutes. Turbot, Curried.—Peel and mince finely a large onion, and fry it in butter till it is quite tender. Rub it through a sieve, and mix smoothly with the pulp a tea-spoonful of ground rice, a table-spoonful of curry-paste or powder, the strained juice of a lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of good stock, and simmer the sauce very gently for ten or twelve minutes. Add a little salt if necessarj', and two table- spoonfuls of thick cream. Put in about a pound of cold-drcsscd turbot, already freed from skin and bone, and divided into pieces an inch square. Let tho fish get quite hot, and serve tho curry on a hot dish, with a wall of boiled rice round it. Time, altogether, half an hour. Turbot Fillets.—A small turbot may bo used fur this purpose, or if a turbot is larger than is required for immediate use, it may \h) cut in halves, one half may be fiUeted, and tho other half dressed in a difl'erent way. Clean and dry the. fish, and raise the flesh from the bones with a sharp knife. Take ofl: the dark skin, but leave the white skin untouched. Divide tho meat into neat pieces the size and shape of small cutlets, and either fry, stew, or bake them. To fry them, dip them into beaten egg and bread-crumbs, fry in hot fat tiU they are lightly browned, drain them, serve neatly arranged like cutlets on a folded napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. To bake them, put a pound of the filleted meat, arranged in, a single layer, into a baking- dish with two ounces of sweet butter, a little pepper and salt, and the strained juice of a lemon. Put them in a brisk oven, baste well with the liquor, and bake until done enough. Dish them as before. To stew them, remove all the skin from the fish, dredge the fillets with, some flour, and fry them till they are lightly browned. Put them into the stewpan, and pour over them as much nicely-seasoned stock as will cover them. Let them stew gently imtil done enough. Lift them out of the sauce with a fish-slice, lay them on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Skim the gravy, thicken with a spoonful of brown thickening, add a spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a glassful of light wine, let it boil up, and strain it over the fish. Serve very hot. Time to frj' the fillets, five or six minutes; to bake them, about twenty minutes; to stew them, ten to fifteen minutes. Turbot, Fillets of (au Gratin).—Take the remains of dressed fish. Free it from skin and bone, and divide it into small neat fillets. Mince three or four button mushrooms finely, mix with them a table-spoonful of chopped parslpy and half a shaUot finely minced. Season with pepper and salt, and fry them over a gentle fire till they are soft. Spread them at the bottom of a small thickly-buttered silver—or, faiUng this, tin—^baking-dish, lay the pieces of fish upon them, and cover with a thick layer of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Stick little pieces of butter here and there on the top, moisten the fish with a Uttle light wine, and bake in a brisk oven. If ne- cessary, brown the surface by holding a red- hot shovel over it, or putting it before the fire for a minute or two, and just before sending the dish to table squeeze the juice of a lemon over the fish. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Turbot, Patties or Vol-au-vents of. —Lino some patty-pans with good puff-paste, or make some small vol-au-vents aocordmg to the direct .ons aheadv given {see Puff-Paste, Vol-au-vents of). Bake them, and while still hot fill them with the foUowing preparation: —Take tho white meat of the turbot freed from skin and bone, mince it finely, and