TEN ( 965 ) TEN" than four or five pounds), yet it resembles the latter fish in its fondness for muddy situations, which imparts an unpleasant flavour to the flesh. In order to free it from this it is often turned for a few days into clear water, and this removes all unpleasantness. Naturally its flesh is much richer and more delicious than that of the carp. It is in season from October to June. TENCH. Tench, Baked.—Clean and scale the tench very carefully, and remove the gills, as they are always muddy. Rub the fish with lemon-juice, and let it lie for an hour; then put it into a tin, sprinkle over it two shallots finely minced, and pour over it four ounces of clari- fied butter or dripping. Cover with oiled paper, and let it bake gently until done enough. Baste frequently. Serve on a hot dish, and pour over it a sauce prepared as foUows:—Mix a table-spoonful of dried flour smoothly with three ounces of butter, and pour in a quarter of a pmt of boiling water; add gradually the third of a pmt of milk or cream. Let the sauce boil up, then stir into it four moderate-sized gherkins finely minced and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and it will be ready for use. Serve very hot. Time to bake, according to the size and thickness of the fish. Probable cost, un- certam, tench being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for two persons. .1,'^^^°^' BoUed.—Scale, draw, and clean the fash carefully, and remove the gills Take care of the melt or roe. Lift the back-bone, and rub in a little salt; then lay the tench m cold salted water for an hour or more, and afterwards nnse it in fresh water. Put it into a saucepan with as much boiling salted water as will coyer it, and let it simmer till done enough. Dish the fish on a napkin, garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon, and send melted butter or maitre d'hOtel sauce to table in a tureen. Time to boil, fifteen to twenty minutes for a moderate-sized tench JffSwt ^^'^'^^ ^^^"^ wS""^^' with Pine Herbs.- Wdbh, clean, unddraw three or four tench, and lay them in boihng water for three minutes; then scale them carefully from head to tail. Lay them on a dish, and sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, an onion, a finely-minced shallot, a table-spoonful of parsley chojjped small, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Pour over the fish as much oil as wiU cover them, and let them lie for an hour or two. Wrap each fish separately with the herbs, &c., in two thicknesses of writing-paper which has been dipped in the oil in which the fish was placed, and broil over a clear fire. When they are done enough, take off the paper, and serve on a hot dish, pouring piquant sauce over them. Time to broil, five to ten minutes, according to size. Tench, Choosing of.—Barbel are easily mistaken for tench, and are sometimes sold as that fish. It is worth ^'hile observing, there- fore, that tench spawn in July, so if any fish be sold for tench in March or April, and proves to be full of spawn, it cannot be tench, but is a cheat upon the purchaser, and must be barbel. Tench is in season all the year, but is most valued in the six winter months. Tench, Fried.—Scale, draw, and clean the fish with gxeat care, and remove the gills. Dry them well, and flour them, then put them into boiling fat, and when they are brown on one side turn them upon the other. Drain them on soft paper before the fire, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with crisped parsley, and send a little sauce to table with them in su. tureen. Time to fry, six to twelve minutes,, according to size. Tench, Fried (another way). —After having scaled and emptied the tench, split the back of the fish, but take care not to touch the belly, for if you do it will divide. Let it pickle ■ for three hours in vinegar, salt, pepper, stalks of parsley, and onions. Then drain it, and dip it into flour. Fry of a fine colour and quite firm. The dripping must be very hot. This you try_ with a drop of water, which, being- thrown into the dripping, occasions a noise if it IS m a proper state. Send it up to table on a. cloth with fried parsley all round; if you have • a soft roe, fry it likewise, and serve it in the^ middle. Tench Pie. ~ Butter a pie-dish rather thickly, and line the edges with a good crust. 1. ^^j^"® tench, season with pepper and salt and grate a httle nutmeg over it. Place small lumps of butter here and there upon it and pour over it a little claret and water. Cover the dish with crust, and bake the pie in a well- heated oven. Have ready a little nicely-seasoned strong gravy, and when the pie is done enough pour It m through the hole at the top. A good pie may be made with tench and eels. The fish should be cut into convenient-sized pieces, and placed m layers in the dish with a little pepper and salt chopped parsley, and an anchovv cut small between each layer. Time to bake, about an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Tench, Sauces for.—Tench maybe served with melted butter, anchovy sauce, parsley sauce, poulette sauce, or with a wh te^ sauce prepared as follows:-Rub a large lump of butter to a smooth paste with a tea-spoonful of Aaa a table-spoonful of water, and stir flour.