BOS ROO a proper accompaniment of salt and pepper. As to radishes, all the vai'ietiea have a pungent and acrid taste, in consequence of a peculiar stimulating matter whicli resides in the cortical part of the root. They may be said to contain little else than water, woody fibre, and acrid matter, and cannot, therefore, be very nutritive. They may act as a stimulant and prove useful, but. they ought never to be eaten when old, as the quantity of inert matter in such a condition is apt to disagree with the stomach. From the consideration of radishes we pass, by an easy transition, to that of onions, &c., for they appear to form the connecting link between alimentary roots and those principally used as condiments. The onion, however, although classed under this latter division, and though it must be considered as valuable on account of its stimulating matter, certainly contains a con- siderable proportion of nourishment. This ap- pears evident in their boiled state, by which process itikiv acrimony is exhaled and a sweet mucilage separated. Sir John Sinclair says that it is a well-known fact that a Highlander, with a few raw onions in his pocket and a crust of bread or some oat-cake, can travel to an almost incredible extent for two or three days together without any other sort of food. The French are fully aware of the quantity of nourishment this plant affords, hence the soup d Voignon is considered by them as the best of all restoratives. As a stimulant to the stomach and bowels, the onion in a raw state is certainly of value, and this is much enhanced by its diuretic properties. The leek, garlic, and shallot are of the same species, and possess qualities of the same nature. Horseradish is a warm and pimgent root, and is highly valuable to the dyspeptic as a stimulant; it is, perhaps, the best of all condiments for the prevention of flatulence. Roots, Essence of (maigre).—Clean three bunches of carrots, two of turnips, six heads of celery, two bunches of white onions, and one of leeks, the whole sliced, and boiled for two minutes in boiling water; cool them afterwards in cold water, then drain, and put them in a stock-pot with ten quarts of boiling water, add an onion with two cloves, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, and butter; simmer them for three hcmrs over a slow fire, skim off all the j butter, and strain the essence through a silk ! sieve. This stock, not being coloured, is adapted for sauces and soups that are to be white, but has less flavour than that described in the preceding recipe. Roots, Macedoine of. —Take some button onions, peel them; some carrots as red as you can get them, and some nice young turnips. Pare off the outer red part of the carrot, having first scraped and cleaned them thoroughly, and cut the parings into bits about the size of peas; do so also with the turnips, but leave the onions whole. Fry the onions and turnips in a good lump of butter and a tea-spoonful of sugar, but the carrots require more dressing, and should be stewed previously in water for about ten or fifteen minutes, when they may be fried with the rest. Toss 1 all tho vegetables well in the butter until they are glazed but not burned. Add a cupful of bechamel maigre and stew, with a proper seasoning of salt and pepper, until the mace- doine has acquired a rather thickish consistency and the sauce is reduced. To thicken, add the yolk of an egg beaten up with two table-spoon- fuls of cream. Stir in the thickening when ready to serve, and when the heat has gone off a little, or it will curdle and spoil the sauce. If not required for a maigre dish, use bechamel made with, meat, but in every other respect proceed as before directed. Time, fifteen minutes to stew the carrots; to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost of bechamel maigre, per pint, 6d. This dish, is mostly used as a maigre dish. Roots, Pickled.—To pickle roots—such, as beetroots, carrots, salsifis, &c.—slice them, boil them in vinegar for a short time, and flavour with, the usual spices. They should not, of course, be boiled sufiiciently long to destroy their crispness. Roquefort Cheese. — The celebrated cheese of Eovergue, known under the name of Roquefort cheese, was made in the seventeenth century in the following way, according to MarcoreUe :—" The curd employed is made from sheep's milk mixed with a little goat's milk. It is broken as small as possible. When it is taken from the moulds it is bound with a linen band and taken to the drying-room, then to the caves, where it is rubbed with salt on the two flat sides of the surface. The downy substance which subsequently covers the crust is frequently scraped off, after which it is left to ripen on tablets exposed to currents of air which proceed from the interstices of the rocks in which the caves are formed." Rose Brandy, for riavonring Cakes and Puddings.—Fill a bottle with freshly- gathered rose-leaves, and shake them down. Pour brandy over them to cover them, cork the bottle closely, and store the infusion for use. Rose Cream.—Boil a pint of milk, sweeten it, and flavom- with a table-spoonful of rose brandy. Drop into it while boiling the whites of four eggs in separate table-spoonfuls. Turn these over once or twice in the hot milk till they are just set, then lift them carefully out, and put them on a sieve to drain. Make a custard with the yolks of the eggs and the milk, and stir this over the fire till it begins to thicken. An additional pint of milk may be added or not. Put it into a custard-bowl, and when it is cold lay the poached-egg whites upon it. Sprinkle hundreds and thousands over these, or lay upon them candied peel cut into shreds, and then serve. Time to poach the egg-whites, half a minute. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Rose Custard (a French recipe).—Boil a pint of good milk; when it boils up, set it on one side of the fire, and sweeten to taste, adding some essence of rose and a little carmine in powder by way of colouring. Whilst this in- fusion is going on, take the yolks of eighteen or twenty eggs, put them into a deep dish, and with a wooden spoon keep turning them till they are well mixed. To these ingredients add by degrees the milk, keeping it turned lUl