( 733 ) RIB B.HU wholesome dish, and its quahtios puniy the blood, which the writer's food has rendered o-ross.' Cut about twelve sticks of rhubarb into fuus-ths of one inch, put it into a stewpan holding about two quai-ts, put over it a quarter of :i pound of sugai", and a table-spoonful ot water, set it on a sharp fire, stirring it; do not let it get brown, or it will spoil and lose its flavour; it will take but a few minutes to do. When tender, put it into a basin to cool; a few minutes before serving, fill the vol-au-vent with it, and serve cold. Rhubarb Wine.—Take fifty pounds of rhubarb, wipe it with a wet cloth, and bruise it well. The easiest way of doing this is to lay it on a clean table, and crush it with a flat-iron. Put it into a tub or bowl, and pour over it ten gallons of cold water; let it remain nine days, stirring two or three times a day. Strain off the liquor, and to each gallon put three pounds of loaf sugar, the juice of a lemon, and half of the rind. Put it in the cask with two ounces of isinglass, and leave it un- stopped for a month, then bung it up, and let it stand in a very cool but not damp place for twelve months, when it will be ready for bottling. A Uttle brandy may be added to the wine, if liked, but it is quite unnecessary. The middle of May is the best time for making rhubarb wine, as the fruit is then fuU of sap. Time, six weeks to prepare. Probable cost, varpng with the price of the rhubarb. A quantity of rhubarb at this time of the yeai ought to be got for very little. Sufficient foi about eighteen gallons of %vine. Rhubarb Wine (another way).—Cut five poimds of rhubarb into short lengths, bruise it, and put it into a bowl Avith a gallon of cold water. Let it stand for five days, and stir it twice a day. Strain off the liquor, and add to it four pounds of loaf sugar. When this is dissolved add the rind of a lemon and half an ounce of isinglass. Let the liquor remain for four or five days, until the fermentation begins to subside. Skim the crust from the surface, draw off the wine, put it into a cask, and in a fortnight bung it down. It will be ready for bottling in six months. If the wine feiment after it is put into the cask, it should be dl•a^vn off into another one. The addition of a little cun-ant-j nice will improve the colour. Rhubarb Wine (another way).—To forty pounds of fresh-cut juicy rhubarb- stalks, sliced but not peeled, put ten gallons of cold soft water, and let them steep two days, closely covered up. Take off the scum, press the juice out of the fruit, strain the liquor through a sieve, and put it to twenty-five pounds of good loaf sugar roughly broken. Stir it well twenty minutes, and when the sugar is dissolved fill your cask, put on the hung lightly, or cover with a tile, and when it has ceased fermenting, add to it three pints of white French brandy, and half a pound of white sugar-candy. 'Then stop it up well with paper pasted over the bung and sand upon that; leave the vent-peg out a day or two only. Let it stand two or throe months, then rack it off. Filter the lees perfectly clear, and return all into the etisk again, adding the thin yellow rinds of four ScviUo oranges, and six ounces of the best barley-sugar, dissolved with an ounce of isinglass in two quarts of the wine. Then stop up the cask again as before, and let it remain a year in a cool cellar; you may then bottle it, using the best corks, and fastening them with wii-e; seal with green wax, and when it has been kept nine months longer it will be excellent. Rhubarb Wine (another way).—Take three ounces of sliced rhubarb, one ounce of cardamon seeds, bruised, half an our.ce of bruised ginger, and a pint and a half of spirit. Digest for three days, and then add of any white wine, two gallons. Riband Blancmange.—Make as much blancmange as is required to fill the moulds. Divide this into as many portions as it is in- tended to have dift'erent colours. Many per- sons will prefer two colours, red and white only, others will wish to have also green, chocolate, and yellow. Put a little of the blancmange an inch deep into an oiled mould. Let it get perfectly cold and mm, then pour in a little of a different colour to the same depth. When this is firm, add a third, and continue until the mould is full. Put the mould in a cold place until wanted, and turn it out care- fully. The rose-colour may be produced by adding two or three drops of cochineal to the blancmange, chocolate - colour with boiled chocolate, green with spinach-juice, yellow with saffron or yolk of egg. The riband will be spoilt unless each colour is allowed to get quite firm before another is poured upon it. Riband Jelly of Two Colours.—Take as much clear, bright calf's-foot or isinglass jelly, properly flavoured, as is required for use. Be careful to use very pale jelly, or the colours will not contrast prettUy. Divide it into two portions, and colour one portion with two or three drops of cochineal. Pour a layer of red an inch deep into a damped mould. Let this get perfectly firm, then add a layer the same depth of pale jelly, and repeat until the mould is full. The moxild should, if possible, be placed upon ice as each layer is added. Unless this can be done the jelly will be a long time getting stiff'. Riband Wafers.—Pub three or four lumps of sugar upon two large fresh lemons until all the yeUow part is taken off. Crush the sugar to powder, and make the weight up to one pound. Mix with this three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, and add gi-aduaUy nine eggs, which have been thoroughly beaten, the yolks and whites first separately and afterwards together. Roll the pastry out tiU it is as thin as a shilling. Stamp it in roimds the size of the top of a tumbler, lay these upon well- buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven. When half baked, take the wafers out, roll them round the finger to the form of a scroll, and return them to the oven to crisp. Time tc bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Ribands, Potato.—Peel four or five large potatoes. Thi'ow them into cold water lor a few minutes, and dry them with a cloth. Cut them round and round into thin strips or