TOM ( 982 ) TOM them tlirough a sieve, add a little Kilt, and put the aauco af^aiii upon the tiro till it is very hot. Servo it iii a tureen. Tiuio to simmer the tomatoes, about an hour. Prohahlo cost, toma- toes, 2d. to 4d. per pound. Sullicieut for six or eig-lit persons. Tomato Sauce, Mock.—Put a pint of : ■water, a dcssert-spounful of vinog-ar, a good ! pinch of siilt, and a largo lump of sugar into a 1 saucepan, and let it boil. Throw into it tho red { part only of four large carrots, and let them boil until quite soft. Take them up with an egg-slice, and rub them through a sieve. Put the im\]) into a preserving-pan with three table- spoonfuls of ale, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, ; a sour apple, half a dozen shallots pared and minced finely, a pinch of salt and cayenne, and as much mustard and powdered mace as will lie on a sixpence. Stir this mixture over a gentle fire for nearly half an hour. Let \t get cold, put it into bottles, and cork down securely. It will keep for three or four weeks. Or boil a dozen sour apples, pared and cored, till tender. Rub them through a sieve, colour the pulp with tm-meric, stir a little vinegar into it to give it an acid taste, and flavour with salt and cayenne. Tomato Store Sauce.—Take a dozen ripe tomatoes, put them in an earthen jar, and set them in a cool oven until they are quite soft. Take off the skins and stalks, mix with the tomatoes the Uquor that flowed from them ■when baked, and add a dessert-spoonful of salt, a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger, a pinch of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Mix the ingredients thoroughly, put the sauce into dry wide-mouthed bottles, and store in a cool dry place. Examine and taste it at the end of a week or a fortnight, and if it does not seem as if it would keep, boil it again ■with a little more cayenne and ginger. This sauce will keep for a long time. It wiU not be properly flavoui'ed till ten days or a fortnight after it is made, though it may be used at once. Some cooks add a head of garhc to the other ingredients, but this is not generally liked. Time, four or five hours. Tomato Store Sauce (another -way).— Put as many tomatoes as are agreeable into an earthen jar, set them in a slow oven, and let them bake gently until quite soft. Rub them through a fine sieve, and weigh the pulp. With every pound put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of salt, half an oimce of cayenne, half an ounce of minced shallot or onion, and a quart of strong vinegar. Boil the whole till it is as thick as cream, let it get cool, put it into dry wide-mouthed bottles, cork closely, and store in a cool dry place. Half an ounce of garlic may be added or not to the other ingredients. Time, about four or five hours. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Tomato Store Sauce (another way).— Take two dozen tomatoes, and bake them in a slow oven till quite soft. Rub them through a sieve, and weigh them. Put a pint of vinegar into a saucepan with one ounce of minced shallots, half an ounce of salt, half an ounce of white pepper, and six capsicums—a small quan- tity of cayenne may be substituted for these. Lot the vuiogar boil for eight or ten minutes- it will bo sulHcient for two pounds of pulp. Mix the vinegar and tlio Umuiues togetlier, and add tho juice tliat flowed from the fruit in l)aking and tlio strained juice of a small lemon. Put tlio mixture again into the saucepan, and stir it over a gentle tire till it is as thick as cream. Turn it out, and let it get cold. Put it into dry wide-mouthed bottles, and cork these down securely. Half an ounce of bruised garlic may bo added or not. Time, four or five hours. Tomato Store Sauce (another way).— Gather tho tomatoes on a dry day, when they are quite ripe and red. Lay them in an earthen jar, put them into a cool oven, and let them remain all night, or until they are quite soft without being broken. Skin them, and rub them through a sieve. With every pint of pulp put half an ounce of bruised shallots, a quarter of an ounce of bruised garhc, a little salt, and half a pint of chiUi vinegar, or half a pint of white-wine vinegar, and a httle cayenne. Boil these ingredients together until the onions are soft. Hub the whole again through a sieve, add the juice of a lemon, and boil it again for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Put it into small dry bottles, and cork and seal these securelj\ The juice which flows from the fruit in baking must be added to the sauce. Time, ten or twelve hours. Probable cost, tomatoes, 2d. to 6d. per pound. Tomato Store Sauce (excellent).—Cut four pounds of tomatoes into slices, and put them into a saucepan with two large onions sHced, one pound of Demerara sugar, a quarter of a pound of salt, two oimces of peppercorns, haH a tea-spoonful of cayenne, half an ounce of cloves, and six ounces of allspice. Pour a pint of vinegar over the ingredients, and let them boil gently for two hours. Stir frequently to keep them from burning. Rub them through a fine sieve, and as soon as the pulp is cold bottle it securely. Store in a cool dry place. Time, two hours. Tomato Soup.—Slice two large onions into a saucepan, with two turnips, two carrots, and five or six outer sticks of celery. Put with these four ounces of lean ham cut into dice, and two ounces of fresh butter, and steam them ovBr a gentle fire for half an hour. Pour over them two quarts of stock or Hquor in which meat has been boiled, and add six or eight ripe tomatoes. Let all simmer gently together for a couple of hours. Rub the vegetables through a sieve, and boil them again with the liquor for a few minutes, add pepper and salt to taste, and serve very hot. Send bread toasted and cut in dice to table on a separate dish. A httle tomato pulp may be added to any vegetable soup when the flavour is liked. Time, three to four hoiira. Probable cost, 6d. to lOd. per pint. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Tomatoes (au Gratin).—Dissolve an ounco of fresh butter in a stewpan, and mix half an oimce of flour smoothly with it. Stir it with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire for two minutes, then add verv gradually three-quarters of a pint of good stock. Let it boil gently tiU it is