( 680 ) QUI QUI Quince Juice.—Pare, core, and qimrtor soini- very ripi' quiucos. i'lit thoin into an earthon jar, witli a jjint of cold water for each pound of fruit. Cover tlio jar closely, place it in a saucepan of water, und let the fruit atoam gently until it is broken. Then lift tlie jar out of the water, remove the cover, and leave the fruit untouched until the next day. Turn it into a jelly-bat^-, and strain the juice until it is clear and briglit, when it wiU be ready for use. The pulp may bo boiled with moist sugar for common use. If the quinces are allowed to boil too long their colour will bo spoilt. Quince Juice (another way).—Take some ripe quinces, peel and grate them; then squeeze the juice through a cloth. Ilavo ready some sugar boiled to a syrup, put in the juice, and let it boil till it jellies, which may bo known by putting a spoonful on a plate to cool. The pro- portiou of sugar to be used is half a pound to every pint of juice. Quince Kernels.—The kernels of quinces should be carefully preserved and dried, and when requii'ed will make a soothing poultice for burns and scalds. To prepare it, soak a few in water. They will shortly form a kind of jelly, and this should be applied to the injiued part. Quince Liqueur.—Wash and dry some ripe quinces, and core, but do not peel fhem. Grate them on a coarse grater. Spread the fruit on a large dish, sprinlde powdered and sifted sugar lightly over it, and let it lie for twenty-four hours. Turn the whole into a hair sieve which rests upon two sticks placed across a basin; strain the juice until it is quite clear, lileasiare this, and with each pint of juice put half a pound of refined sugar, and a pint of brandy or whiskey. Let the liqueur stand for a fortnight, shaking it each day. Bottle for use. Quince Marmalade. — Wlien quinces emit their peculiar strong odour it is a sign that they are fit for use. Peel the quinces, core them, slice them into a preserving-pan, and pour over them as much water as will barely cover them. Let them simmer very gently until they are soft, stirring them occa- sionally to keep them from burning to the pan ; then beat them to a pulp with a wooden spoon. Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan, with as much water as wiU moisten it, and boil it to a clear syrup. Put in the fruit, and boil it slowly till it is smooth and thick. Stir frequently whilst it is being boiled. The marmalade will be done enough when it will jelly when di-opped upon a plate. Put it, whilst hot, into glasses or jars, and when it is cool, cover in the usual way, with paper dipped in the white of egg. Time, five hours or more. Quince Marmalade (another way).— Pare some quinces that are quite ripe, cut them into quarters, core them, and jiut them into a saucepan ; cover them with the parings; fill tlie saucepan nearly full of spring water, cover it close, and let the quinces .stew over a slow fire till soft and of a pink colour; then pick out all the qumces from the parings; boat them to a pulp in a marble mortar or wooden bowl; put the same weight of fine loaf sugar an there is pul]) into as mudi of the water tliey were stewed in as will dLsaolvo the sugar, Boil and skim well, then put in the pulp of the quinces; boil gently for tlu-ee-quurtera of an hour, stirring all the time, or the niarnmlude will stick to the pan uud buin. Put it in pots, and tie down close. Quince Marmalade (another way).— Take quinces tliat are quite ripe, i)are, cut them into (luarters, taking out the core, and put them into a stcwpan, with spring water enough to cover them. Keep them closely covered, and lot them stew gently till they are quite soft and red, then mash and rub them thi'ough a hair sieve. Put them in a pan over a gentle fire, with as much chtrified sugar as the weight of the quinces. Boil for an hour, stin-ing all the time, to keep the marmalade from sticking. Put it into pots, and tie down when cold. Quince Marmalade, Superior.—Take some ripe quinces, wash them, and put them whole into a preserving-pan, with as much boiling water as will cover them. Let them simmer gently until they are so soft that they can be easily pierced with a pin. Lift them out, peel and core them, put the cores and skins back into the water, and boil xmtil it is considerably reduced, then strain it. Cut the fruit into thin slices. Weigh these with an equal weight of refined sugar. Put them with the sugar into a preserving pan, pour over them the strained liquor, boil the whole slowly over a gentle fire, and stir with a wooden spoon till it is thick and smooth. In order to ascertain whether or not it is done enough put a little every now and then upon a plate, and when it jellies it is done. Put it, whilst hot, into glasses or jars, and cover in the usual way. Time, five horns or more. Quince Paste, for Dessert. — Take some ripe quinces, pare, core, and quarter them, and boil them until they are soft in as much water as will barely cover them. Lift them out, drain them, and rub them through a sieve. Stir the pulp over a clear fire until it forms a dry paste. Weigh it, mix with it its weight in powdered and sifted sugar, and stir it unceasingly over a gentle fire until it is firm, and loaves the sides of the saucepan with the spoon. Press it into shallow pans, and when it is cold stamp it out into.shapes, and,'if neces- sary, dry these in a cool oven until they are entirely free from moisture. Store in tin boxes between sheets of wi-iting paper. The paste may, if liked, be more strongly flavoured by boiling the fruit in quince juice instead of water. Time, four to five hours. Quince Pie.—Lino the edges of a pio-dish with a short paste. Fill the dish with quinces, pared, cored, and quartered, sjmnkle a little sugar on the top, and add a pinch of grated lemon-peel. Moisten the edges, cover the dish with 'jiastry, and bake in a moderate oven. Sift a little powdered sugar over the pie before sending it to table. Time to bake, according to size.