WAP WAP ( 1098 ) If properly managed the batter will be cooked iu about two minutes. Wafer Paper, to put under Cakes (a Gorman rccipu).—Take fine tlonv, to which put as much water as will make it boat smooth. Then by degrees add as mucli more as will bring it to a thin paste. Rub a baking-plate with wax, beat it, wipo off the wax, hold the tin again o\-or the fire, then pour a spoonful of the flour and water, or as much as will cover the bottom thinly, and bake it merely so that it becomes di-y and white. Wafer Puddings. —Beat an ounce of butter to cream, and mix with it a table-spoon- ful of tlour, a table-spoonful of cream, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. A little flavom'ing may be added if liked. Butter some patty-pans, half fill them with the batter, and cover with the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Sprinkle a little powdered white sugar upon them, and bake in a weU-heated oven. "When done enough, turn them upon a hot napkin, and send jam or sweet sauce to table with them. Time to bake the puddings, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Suf- ficient for four or five puddings. Wafers.—There are many ways of making wafers, but however made, they must be baked in the same way, that is, in irons made for the purpose, and called wafer-irons. These irons should be used as follows:—Heat an iron on both sides over a moderate fire. Rub it inside with a little butter, put a tea-spoonful of the wafer batter into it, close the iron upon this almost immediately, and put it on the fire. When cooked upon one side, turn it upon the other. Cut away the superfluous paste round the edges, and roll the wafer on a stick while it is still warm. Put in another piece of batter, and repeat vmtil all the batter is used. Keep the wafers in a tin box in a diy place till wanted. They are generally served with the sweets. Wafers, Almond.—Mix thoroughly equal quantities of dry iiour and sifted sugar. "With every four table-spoonfuls of this mixture that it is intended to use work in two well-beaten eggs, two ounces and a half of chopped almonds or pistachio nuts, a small quantity of fresh yeast, and as much cream as will make a thick batter. Let the mixture settle, and bake the •wafers in the usual way. Wafers, Dutch..—Put seven ounces of flour upon a pasteboard, and work it to a smooth stiff paste with three ounces of butter, the grated rind of an orange, five ounces of powdered sugar, and one egg. Divide the paste into pieces the size of a pigeon's egg, form these to an oval shape, and bake in an oval wafer-iron. Wafers, Plemish.—Rub a large lump of sugar upon the rind of half a fresh lemon till the yellow part is taken off, then crash it to powder. Put four oimces of flour into a bowl, mix with it a pinch of salt and the flavoured sugar, and add gradually a quarter of a pint of lukewai-m milk and a table-spoonful of fresh yeast. Work the mixture to a soft dough. cover it, and put it on the health to riBe. Work in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to cream, th(j yolks of three eggs well- beaten, and, lastly, the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Let the dough rise till it in double its original size. Bake the wafers in the usual •way. Put them while hot upon a dish, and sift powdered wliite sugar thickly over them. Time to cook tlie \vaferB, three or four minutes. Wafers, Prui t, for Dessert.—Take any kind of ripe well-flavjured fruit. Put it into an earthen jar, cover closelv, and set it in a pan of boiling water. Keep the water boiling qiuckly round it till the juice flows freely from the fruit. Strain it through a jelly-bag, and with each pint of filtered juice mix a pound of powdered white sugar and the white of an egg. Beat the mixture till it forms a stiff paste. Spread it in a thin layer upon buttered paper, and bake in a gentle oven till it is dry enough to leave the paper. Turn it upside down, and put it again in the oven until it is perfectly dry. Stamp it in shapes, and place these between sheets of white paper in layers in a tin box. Wafers, Greneva.—Beat three ounces of fresh butter to cream. Add two heaped table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, two well-whisked eggs, and, very gradually, three ounces of dried flour. Beat the batter till it is smooth. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop on it at regular in- tervals a tea-spoonful of the mixture. Bake the wafers in a gentle oven. When they are set, but still quite soft, take them out, and turn them to the shape of horns. Put a little piece of bread into the wide end to keep them in shape, and let them remain in the oven till crisp. When they are cold, take out the bread, and just before serving the wafers fill them with jam and whipped cream. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Probable cost. Is. Time, altogether, about twenty minutes. Wafers, Ice.—Mbc together half a pound of flour and half a pound of powdered sugar. Add three well-beaten eggs and a few drops of essence of vanilla, and beat the mixture till it is quite smooth. Melt half a pound of fresh iDutter, work this into the batter, and beat it again. Add very gradually a quart of milk. Let the batter remain untouched for an hour, and bake the wafers in the usual way. Wafers with JeUy.—Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to cream. Add half a pound of powdered sugar, two eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of brandy, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg grated, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a quarter of a tea- spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, and as much flour as will make a ver>- thiok smooth batter. Beat the mixture well. Butter a large baking-sheet, and spread the batter upon it in a lavcr not more than an eighth of an inch thick.' Bake in a moderately- heated oven till it is set. Cut it m halves; spread a little jelly upon one half, and lay the other half upon it. Wlien cold, cut it into fingers with a sharp k-nifc. Pile those m a glass dish, and serve. Time to bake the batter,