( 609 ) POR Have the bones removed, and spread evenly over the inside a forcemeat made of three table-spoonfuls of finely-grated bread-crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of chopped sage, a little pepper and salt, and a beaten egg. Eoll and bind the meat tightly in a nice shape. Put it to roast before a clear fire, though at a good distance from it, and baste liberally. Send good brown gravy to table with the pork. If liked, the forcemeat may be omitted, and tomato sauce, poivrado sauce, or soubise sauce may accompany the meat. Time to roast the pork, twenty-five minutes per pound. Probable cost, 9^d. per pound. Pork, Nutritive Properties .of.— Compared with some of our leading articles oi diet derived from animals, pork, so far as nutriment is concerned, occupies the lowest place, except in the matter of fat. This may be seen from the following analytical table :— Veai. Beef. Mutton. Pork. Mineral matter . 4-5 5-0 3-5 1-5 Gelatine . . 7-6 7-0 7*0 5 o Fibrine . . 9-0 8 0 5 5 45 Fat . . . 16-5 30-0 40-0 60-0 Water . . 62-5 50 0 44-0 38-5 100 0 100-0 100 0 100-0 Pork Pancakes.—Beat thoroughly the yolks of two fresh eggs. Stir in two table- spoonfuls of flour, and beat to a smooth paste. Add a pinch of salt and the third of a pint of mUk, and let the batter stand for an hour or two. Out the remains of cold roast or boiled pork into thin slices, and cover these to keep them moist and free from dust. When the pancakes are to be fried, whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and add them to the batter. Dip the slices of pork into this, and fry them separately in hot fat for a minute. Sur- round each slice with a spoonful of batter, fry it again until set, and when it is done on one side turn it over to the other. Serve the pancakes on a hot dish, and send good brown sauce made from the trimmings of the pork to table with them. If liked, the pancakes can be made with fresh meat, but in tins case it will be necessary to fry the slices of pork before they are dipped into the batter. Three or four pan- cakes may be fried at once in an ordinary omelet pan. Time to fry the pancakes, four minutes each. Probable cost, 6d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient, allow two or three for each person. Pork, Peas Pudding to Eat with Boiled {nee I'eas I'udding). Pork, Peas Pudding, whj eaten with.—" Pork and peas pudding," remarks Dr. Johnson, " is a conjunction of viand.s which docs not owe its popularity either to old habit or to the mere taste of the epicure. It is in reality an admixture which constitutional experience has prescribed as better fitted to the after comfort of the alimentary canal of every healthy indi- vidual than cither kind of food eaten alone." Pork, Pickle for.—The wime pickle may be used again and agi.in for pork if it is boiled up occasionally. The following are excellent recipes :—Boil half a pound of common salt, a quarter of a pound of salt prunel, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, one and a half pounds of loaf sugar, and two pounds of bay-salt, in twa gallons of water for half an hour. Skim the hquor well, and when cold put it into the tub. Or boil six pounds of common salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and one and a half pounds of moist sugar, in two gallons of water, as above. When the meat is put into either of these pickles, put a weight upon it to keep it covered with the brine. Pickle should be thrown away after a pig's head has been laid in it. Pork, Pickle for (another way).— Pickle for Beef, Pork, and Tongues. Pork, Pickled.— As pork will not keep unless it is salted, it should be cut up as soon as it is cold, and in such pieces as will lie quite flat in the pan. Strew a layer of salt and a slighter one of sugar at the bottom of the salting-pan. Rub the sides of the pork over with sugar and salt, lay the pieces, skin down- wards, in the pan, and put a layer of sugar and salt between the layers. When the pan is full, cover the whole with a layer of salt sufficiently thick to exclude the air. Lay a cloth over the pan, and put a board with a weight upon it over the cloth to keep the meat in the brine. Leave it for a week or ten days. If at the end of that time the salt has not dissolved into a brine, sprinkle a little warm water over the top layer of salt. It is better, however, to avoid doing this if possible: it should only be found necessary in very drj- weather. Pork pickled in this way will be ready for use in three or four months, and wUl be found excellent. If excluded from the air, it will keep good for two years. Although saltpetre is more commonly used than sugar in. pickling meat, the latter imparts the finer flavour, though there is no reason why both should not be used for pork as well as beef. Pork, Pickled (American method).—Dis- solve an ounce of saltpetre and half an ounce of saleratus in a small quantity of boiling water. Put this into a large saucepan containing three gallons of water, and add two and a half pounds of common salt, two pounds of bay- salt, and one pound of moist sugar. Boil the liquid, and skim well until it is quite clear, then pour it into the pickling-pan, and when it is cold it is ready for use. Pork which is to be boiled should be put into this pickle, and kept under the brine, by means of a board and a weight laid upon it, until it is wanted. The time required for pickling vrill of course de- pend- upon the size of the meat and the taste of those who are to eat it. Usually it wiU be found that two days is sufficient for the streaky parts, four days for the hand and spring, and five or six days for a moderate- sized leg. The pickle may be used again and again if boiled occasionally. Pork, Pickled (an easy way).—When povk is to be dressed in a short uime, it may be pickled in the following oasy way:—Take the pig as soon as it is cold, cut it into con- venient-sized pieces, and rub it weU with com- mon salt. Lay it in the salting-pan, and turn, and rub it overy day till it is required for