VEN ( 1078 ) VEN and, lastly, work in a quarter of a pound of flour. Butter a pliiiu mould, sprinkle a little fine sugar into it, and pour in the batter. Hake the cake in the oven. When it is done enough turn it upon a sieve, lot it got cold, and cover with chocolate icing. Let it diy in a cool oven, and it will bo ready for use. The icing may bo made as follows :—Break three-quarters of a ],x)und of boat Fi-eneh chocolate into small pieces, and put these in a saucepan with a pint and a half of water and a pound of sugar. Stir the mixture lill the chocolate is dissolved, strain it into a clean boiler, and stir until it registers 38 deg., or gi-and plume on a saccharometer. Take it ofiE the fire, and work briskly till it thickens. When cool, it will be ready for pouring over the cake. Venetian Biscuit with Ice Cream. —Make a Venetian biscuit as in the last recipe. Bake it, let it cool, and scoop out the inside, leaving a wall an inch thick all roimd. Make a small mould of vanilla ice cream the same size as the hollow part of the biscuit. Place it on a napkin in a dish, place the biscuit crust upon it, and serve. Venetian Cake.—Blanch, dry thoroughly, and pound to a smooth paste seven ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter almonds. "WTiilst pounding, add a few drops of orange-flower water to keep the almonds from oiling. JMix a pound of flour with the almonds, and break into the mixture half a pound of firm cool butter. E,ub four or five large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a lemon. Crush this to powder, and put with it additional sugar to make up the weight to half a pound. Work the ingredients to a smooth paste with the well-beaten yolks of three large eggs or four small ones. EoU the paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, place it on a baking- sheet, and bake in the oven till it is firm, and lightly and equally browned. Take it out, let it get cold, and divide it into six or seven por- tions of equal size. Spread jam of different colours upon all of these but one, and lay them one upon the other, placing the one without jam upon the top. Ice the top of the cake, and orna- ment with coloured sugar. By way of variety, instead of cutting the cake into portions of an equal size, cut a large piece for the bottom, and the remainder gradually smaller and smaller, so that when they are placed one upon another a border an inch deep may be left round each. This border may be ornamented with jam of different colours. Venetian Cream.—Simmer a pint of milk with four table-spoonfuls of sugar till the latter is dissolved. Pour it when boiling on the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, and stir constantly over a gentle fire tiU it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Stir into it throe-quarters of a pint of isinglass which has been dissolved in a gill of water and cooled, and add a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Mix with the cream half a pound of jam or candied fruit of any kind cut small, and stir the preparation until it begins to thicken. If this is not done, the sweetmeats will sink to the bottom. Time, three-quarters of an hour to make the croam. Probable cost, 28. lOd.' Suflicient for five or six persons. Venetian Fritters.—Take three dessert- spooiifuls of Carolina rice. Wash, pick, and diy it, and put it into a saucepan with half a pint of new milk. Put with it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, let it boil, and simmer gently till it is tender and has absorljod aU the milk. Beat it well witli a table-spooufui of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt; and when cold add a little grated lemon-rind, an ounce and a half of currants, a large apple pared, cored, and chopped small, half a tea- spoonful of floui', and two well-beaten eggs. Keep the mixture in a cool place till wanted. Drop it in spoonfuls into hot fat, and fry these over a gentle fire till they are lightly browned. When they are firm upon one side turn them carefully upon the other. Drain them, and serve on a hot dish with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry the fritters, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Venetian Sauce.—Put half a pint of white sauce into a saucepan, and add a table- spoonful of mushroom-juice. Stir it over the fire for ten minutes, lift it off, and let it coel a little. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, and with them a quarter of a pint of cream. Stir a little of the sauce into the mixture, and add it gradually to the rest, together with a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, haK a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Stir the sauce briskly over the fire for five minutes, and add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Pour it into the tureen, stii' a small lump of butter into it, and serve. Venison. — There are three kinds of venison known in Great Britain; the stag or red deer, peculiar to Ireland; the roebuck, known only in the north of Scotland; and the fallow deer, common in England. Of these the fallow deer is much the best, and when it is well kept and properly dressed it is quite worthy of the. high value set upon it. Buck venison, which is in season from June to the end of September, is finer than doe venison, which is in season from October to December. Neither should be dressed at any other time of the year. The haunch is the prime joint, though the neck and shoulder are much approved, and may be dressed in various ways. No meat requires so much care as venison in killing, preserving, and dressing. As soon as it is cut up it should bo taken into a cool dry larder, dried with a cloth, and liung in an airy place. If it is to be kept some time, dry ginger and pepper should be dusted over it to keep off the flics. It should be examined and Kircfully wiped every day, or twice a day in unfavourable weather, and it should be kept as long as it is possible to preserve it untainted. Excepting in very mild weather, it will keep a fortnight with care. In order to ascertain its condition, run a skewer close to tlie bone, and from this judge of the sweetness of the venison. If it should inadvertently become musty, first wash it with lukewai-m water, and afterward*