( 1072 ) VEG VEG pons with them, and boil till quite tender. Hub them tlirough a sieve or strainer, and mix a spoonful or two of oatmeal witli the pulp to form a licpiid paste. Stir this into the boiUng stock, let it boil for ton minutes, and it wiU be ready for use. VrOETABLE STKAINER. Vegetable Soup, "Winter (another ■way).—Allow half a pint of mixed vegetables cut small to every quart of water. Fry the vegetables in butter or fat till they are lightly browned. Pour upon them the boiling stock, and let them simmer gently till tender. Rub them through a sieve, moisten the pulp with the stock, and add salt and cayenne. Simmer the soup till it is thoroughly hot, and serve with toasted sippets. Carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and sweet herbs, are the vegetables best suited for vegetable winter soup. Vegetable Soup with Meat.—Take cabbage lettuces, chervil, white beet-leaves, celerj', leeks, sorrel, and scraped carrot—a good handful of each. Chop these fine, and add cucumbers sliced, young peas or asparagus. Stew gently in gravy and a few ounces of butter till they become quite tender, then put to them the required quantity of gravy or good broth made of shank of beef or veal and mutton. Give a boil, and serve up hot. Vegetable Stock.—If vegetable stock be required for a soup maigre, proceed as follows :—Cut into small pieces a large carrot, an onion, two lettuces, about a dozen of the outer sticks of celery, and a parsnip. Put these into a stewpan with a slice of butter or dripping, cover the stewpan closely, and let its contents sweat till they begin to soften. Pour upon them as much boiling water as will entirely cover them, add a Little salt and pepper, and let them stew softly till they are reduced to pulp. Skim and strain the liquor, and put it aside for use. Time, about four hours. Vegetables.— Good vegetables, carefully dressed, are wholesome, easy of digestion, and tend to purify the blood. In foreign countries they are frequently served as separate dishes, and constitute a distinctive part of the dinner. Here they are generally served with the meat. Vegetables may be cooked in a variety of ways, and the recipes for preparing them are given under their respective headings. As to general rules, the reader is "referred to the Phinciples OF Cookery, page lii. In boiling vegetables, some most impoiiant points must not be for- gotten, and those are, to boil them exactly the proper time, to take them out of the water the moment they are sufficiently cooked, to drain them, and keep them hot. If underdone, they are indigestible; if overdone, their appearance is spoilt and their flavour lost. On this account it 18 necessary to calculate as exactly as possible how long they wiU take and when they wUl be needed, so tiiat they may be suffic'i.-ntly cooked just when they are wanted. These calcuktions must bo regulated by tlie age freshness, and size of the vegetables. Summer vegetables are in perfection only when they are froslily gathere'd and ]jroperly matured. There is an exception to this rule, however— artichokes being improved by being kept two or three days. But it is not always tliat vege. tables can bo procured in tliis condition. For advice as to the best way of keeping them, see Vegetables, Keeping of. Vegetables, Boiling of.—Vegetables, after being cleansed with scrupulous care, should be put into plenty of fast-boiling water slightly salted. A table-spoonful of salt will be sufficient for half a gallon of water. Tiiey should be kept boiling until done enough, and if green should be in an open saucepan. <Jld potatoes and old Jerusalem artichokes should be put into cold water; young potatoes and young Jerusalem artichokes into boiling water. Dried beans and peas should be put into cold water, and soaked before being boiled. Vege- tables should be taken up as soon as they are sufficiently cooked. If underdone, they wiU be unpalatable and unwholesome; if overdone, they will be untidy and flavourless. Vegetables, Cooking of.—Few persons know how to cook vegetables. The rule is simple, and shoul''. never be forgotten. Old potatoes should either be steamed, or be ])ut into plenty of cold water and boiled slowly. New potatoes should be put into plenty of boil- ing water. With both the water should be drained off when the roots are tender, and they should finish cooking in their own steam. Green vegetables should be put into fast boil- ing water. They should be quickly boiled, and the lid should be left off the pan. If they are of good quality they will not need soda—indeed, soda will spoil them. If the water boils from the moment that the vegetable is immersed in it, the albumen is partially coagulated near the surface, and serves to retain the virtue of the vegetable. The reverse is of course the rule for making soup, or any dish from which the water will not be drained. By placing the vegetables in cold water, the albumen is slowly dissolved, and actually mixes with the water—a process most necessaiy for the production of nutritious soup. Vegetables, Dried, for Julienne and Clear Soups. —As vegetables for soups are rather troublesome to cut, especially for those unaccustomed to the work, and as fresh choice vegetables are not always to be had, the cook will find it both convenient and economical to have at hand a small quantity of dried vegetables, which may be bought at various foreign warehouses. These vegetables are light in weight, and in appearance some- thing like chips. They need only to be soaked in cold water for tliree-quarters of an hour, then put into a saucepan over the fire, stiU in cold water slightly salted, and boiled like fresh vegetables. The clear soup should then bo poured over them, and the whole boiled