(661 ) PRU PUB liked, be omitted, and a little brown thickening may be boiled with the soup. This economical dish is very popular in Prussia, hence its name, 'lime, five horns or more, according to the quality of the peas. Probable cost, 4d. a pint. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Prussienne Charlotte {see Charlotte,. Prussienne). Ptarmigan. — The ptarmigan, or white grouse, is found on the summit of mountains, in cold bleak situations, and is keenly sought after by many sportsmen. Its flesh has a pecu- liar and bitter taste, much relished by epicures. It should be hung as long as possible before being dressed. It is about the same size as the red grouse. Ptarmigan, Roasted.—Hang the birds as long as possible. Pluck and draw them carefully, and truss like grouse. Baste liber- ally, and just before they are done enough flour and froth them nicely. Serve very hot, either on fried bread-crumbs or on buttered toast, and send brown gravy and bread sauce to table with them. Time to roast, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient, two for a dish. Ptarmigan Salad.—Take the remains of cold roast ptarmigan, or, if liked, roast a bird specially for the purpose, and in this case let it be slightly under-dxessed. Cut it into neat joints, and lay these aside until wanted. Wash any fresh salad that may be in season in salted water, and dry it carefully by putting it after it has been washed, a smaU quantity at a time, into a dry napkin, and then taking this up by the four comers and shaking the moisture from it. Put a layer of the salad at the bottom of a dish, lay the inferior joints of the bird upon it, and cover each piece with sauce. Cover these %vith the remainder of the salad, and lay the rest of the bird upon it; pour sauce over the whole, and serve. The sauce may be made as follows:—Beat the yolk of an egg for a minute. Mix with it a large pinch of salt, half a, tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced shallot, and the same of chopped parsley, tarragon, or chervil. Stir in, first in drops and afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, foui- table-spoonfuls of best aalad-oil, and beat the sauce briskly between each addition. Add gradually two table-spoonfuls of chilli vinegar, and set the sauce in a cool place till it is wanted. Before using, mix with it a quarter of a pint of thick cream. The salad should not be arranged upon the dish until just before it is wanted. It may be garnished in any way that fancy dictates. It looks very pretty as follows :—Place a thin flat rim of butter round the dish on which the salad is to be served. Cut four hard-boiled eggs into half-quarters lengthwise, and stick the pieces upon the butter, placing the yolk and the white alternately to the outside. Arrange round the salad, and rest- ing upon the top of the eggs, a sort of trellis- work of beetroot cut into thin slices. Pour the white sauce over the salad, and sprinkle over it half a dozen parsley-leaves broken into small pieces. Serve as soon as possible after the sauce is poured on. A salad garnished in this way would have to be served on a flat dish, and not in a salad-bowl. Time, half an hour to roast the bird. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Probable cost of ptarmigans. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. each. Public Dietaries.—For the following details on this subject we are indebted to the "Inventory of the Food Collection" at Bethnal Green Museum, to which we are already under obligation. The experience of nations in the support of persons depending upon public diets, such as the soldier, sailor, pauper, or prisoner, gives data for determining the quantity of flesh-formers and force-pro- ducers required for support under different conditions, however varied may be the sub- stances composing the dietaries. It is curious to observe the amount of flesh-formers and of the carbon (charcoal) in the food of soldiers and sailors in different countries. Carbon is the element which chiefly determines the value of the force-producers. As a general rule, men in fighting condition require a daily supply of five or six ounces of flesh-formers and ten ounces of carbon. The English soldier requires, both in this country and in India, five ounces daily of flesh- formers in food. This must also contain ten ounces of cai'bon. The English sailor requires five ounces of flesh-formers in food, and consumes daily ten ounces of carbon. In his salt meat dietary he has nearly six ounces of flesh-formers daily, and twelve ounces of carbon. This may be necesagiy, from the less digestible nature of the The Dutch soldier when in war receives five ounces daily of flesh-formers in his food, to- gether with ten ounces and a half of carbon. When living in peace, or in gairison, he has a lower diet, in which there are only three ounces and a half of flesh-formers and ten ounces of carbon. He is no longer in " fighting condi- tion." The French soldier, although his diet is of a very different description fi'om the soldier of our own country, receives nearly the same amount of flesh-formers in his food—namely, four ounces and three-quarters, and twelve ounces of carbon. The French soldier, unlike the Dutchman, is thus always kept in " fighting condition." When the British soldier retires to Chelsea Hospital, or the sailor to Greenwich Hospital, he does not require such a large amount of flesh-formers in his food : these are reduced to between three and four ounces daily. To be exact, Greenwich pensioners have three ounces and a half of flesh-formers and ten ounces of carbon daily in their food. Pensioners of Chel- sea Hospital have four ounces of flesh-formers and nine ounces and three-quarters of carbon daily. Paupers in workhouses, not being exposed to much labour, require less flesh-fonners in food than active soldiers and sailors. Taking the average of all the workhouses in the kingdom, it is found that paupers have daily three ounces and a quarter of flosh-formers and eight ounces and a quarter of carbon.