( 1063 ) VEA VEA rolls or flat cakes, and fry or bake these in the usual way. Two or three anchovies may be added to the mince if approved. Veal Sausages with Pork.—Take equal quantities of veal and pork. JVlince them, iii-st separately and afterwards together, and Avith them half their weight in beef suet free fi'om skin and fibre. With every pound of meat put a tea-spoonful of powdered sage, and season the mixtui'e rather highly with pepper and salt. Clean and fill the skins in the usual way, and the sausages are made. If they are to be used immediately, a little crumb of bread soaked in water may be beaten up with them. Veal Scallops, Fried.—Take about two pounds of veal from the fillet. Trim away the fat, gristle, and skin, and cut it into rounds half an inch thick and the size of a cro"wn piece. Flatten these with the cutlet-bat, and season with a little pepper and salt. Butter the frjdng-pan thickly, put in the scallops side by side, and fry till they are brightly browned on both sides. Take them up, and keep them hot in the oven till the sauce is ready. Dredge a table- spoonful of flour into the fat in the frying-pan, stir for a minute, and moisten the paste with three-quarters of a pint of stock. Let it boil, and pour into it the gravy which has come fi-om the scallops. Stir into the sauce a table-spoon- ful of chopped parsley. Take it from the fire, dissolve a slice of fresh butter in it, pour it over the veal, and serve. Time, eight to ten minutes to fry the scallops. Veal Scallops, White.—Prepare the scaUops as in the last recipe {see Veal Scallops, Fried), and fry them in clarified butter, taking care that though thoroughly cooked they do not acquire any colour. Drain them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, pour good white sauce round them, and put dressed celery, dressed artichokes, or fried potatoes in the centre of the dish. Veal, Scallops of, Cold.—Mince the meat very small, and set it over the fire for a few minutes with some nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little cream; then put it into the scallop- shells, and fiU them up with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Veal, Shoulder of.—Owing, no doubt, to the fact that the meat on this joint is rather coarse, the shoulder of veal is not so highly -valued as other portions, and is seldom served, excepting as a family dish. It is occasionally plainly boiled, but is more frequently stuffed and roasted or braised. The knuckle should always be cut off and used to enrich the stew or to make gravy. Probable cost, if bought whole, 8^d. per pound; if cut, 9d. Veal, Shoulder of, Boiled.—Cut off the knuckle, and draw out the bones. Rub the under part with a cut lemon, and sprinkle over it pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. RoU the meat, and skewer it neatly. Put it into a stewpan, cover with milk and water, and let it simmer gently till done enough. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. Send good onion sauce to table with it, and serve boiled bacon or pickled pork on a separate dish. This dish is by most people considered insipid. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. Probable cost, S^d. per pound, if bought whole. Veal, Shoulder of, Boned.—The butcher will, if desii-ed, perform the operation of boning, which is rather troublesome to those not accustomed to it. Lay the joint upon the table, skin downwards. With a sharp knife detach the flesh from the blade-bone first on one side and then on the other, and be especially careful not to pierce the outer skin. When the bone is quite free, loosen it from the socket, and draw it out. The bone of the knuckle is some- times left in, but when it is necessary to re- move it the same rules need to be observed. The knife must be worked close to the bone, and the outer skin must not be pierced. An excellent grill may be made of the blade-bone if a little of the meat is left on it. Veal, Shoulder of, Braised (to eat cold).—Take a whole shoulder of veal weighing about nine pounds. Cut off the knuckle, and bone the joint entirely without piercing the skin. Place the joint on the table skin down- wards, trim neatly, cut away some of the meat to make it even, sprinkle salt and i^epper upon it, and spread over it a layer two inches and a half thick of good forcemeat made with equal parts of lean veal and fat bacon minced, pounded, and pressed through a sieve, and sea- soned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; two or three finely-minced truffles may, if Uked, be added to the forcemeat. Fold the shoulder over to enclose the forcemeat, bind it with tape, and roU it in a napkin. Tie the ends securely and fasten string round the roll to keep it in shape. Place the veal in a braising-pan upon a bed of sliced vegetables; put with it the bones and trimmings of the veal, including the knuckle, also two blanched calf's feet, the blanched rind of the bacon which was used for the forcemeat, and a little pepper and salt. Pour over aU as much boiling stock as will barely cover the veal, put it on the fire, let it boil up, skim carefully, and simmer gently for four hours. Take it from the fire, but let it remain in the liquor till cool. Take it up, remove the napkin, tie it in a fresh one, and place upon it a dish with a weight. Let it re- main until the next day. Remove the napkin, brush the veal over two or three times with liquid glaze, and serve it, garnished with parsley, aspic jelly, &c. This jelly may be made of the liquor in which the shoulder was simmered, strained, freed from fat, and clarified. The calf's feet which were stewed with the veal may be served with sauce on a separate dish {see Calf's Foot a la Poulette). This is a good dish for a picnic or for a cold collation. Time to simmer the veal, four hours. Veal, Shoulder of. Stuffed and Roasted.—Cut the knuckle from a shoulder of veal, draw out the blade-bone, and fill the cavity thus made with good veal forcemeat. If preferred, the blade-bone may be loft in, and the forcemeat spread over the part whore the knuckle was cut off, and also under the flap.