( 693 ) PLtr PLTJ France. The greengage is so called after the Gage family, who first brought it to this coun- try from the monastery of the Chartreuse at Paris, where it went under the name of Reine Claude. The magnum bonum is our largest plum, and in great request for preserves and for culinary purposes. The wild sloe is thought by some to bo the parent of the plum; the ac- climated kinds, however, came from the East. The cultivation of the plum was probably at- tended to verj' early in England, as Gerard teUs us he had in his garden in Holbom, in 1597, a great variety of sorts. We extract the following list of dessert plums, arranged m the order of their ripening, from a " Descriptive Catalogue of Plums cultivated in Britain, given some years ago by a well-known bo- tanical authority:— Name. Size. CoIova: Ripens. Jaune hative Medium YeUow End July. Precoce de Tours Medium Purple Beg. Aug. Morocco Medium Purple Beg. Aug. Royal hative Medium Purple Beg. m. Aug. Nectarine Large Purple Beg. Aug. Drap d'or Small Tel. Green Mid. Aug. Fotheringham Medium Purple Mid. Aug. Greengage Medium Tel. Green Mid. e. Aug. Blue Perdrigon Medium Purple End Aug. White Perdrigon Medium Pale Yellow End Aug. Virgin Medium Pui-ple Beg. Sept. Wh. Impdratrice Medium Pale Yellow Beg. m. Sep. Diapr^e Rouge Large Red. Violet Beg. m. Sep. Washington Large Yellow Sept. D'Agen Medium Purple End Sept. Reine Claude Medium Purple Sept. Violette Jefferson Large Orange Red Sept. Large Gr. Drying Large Green. Yel. Mid. e. Sept. Coe's Golden Drop Large Yellow Sept., Oct. Blue Impdratrice Large Purple Oct. Ickwortli ditto Medium Purple Oct. Coe's fine late red Medium Purple Oct. The following is a list of kitchen plums, from the same source, arranged in the order of their ripening:— Name. Size. Colour. Ripens. Early Orleans Medium Purple Beg. m. Aug. Gisbome's Medium Yellow Mid. Aug. Mirabelle Small Pale Yellow Mid. Aug. Orleans Medium Purple Mid. e. Aug. Shropsh. Damson Small Purple Mid. Sept. Wine Sour Bel. Md. Purple Mid. Sept. Red Magnum Large Purpsh.Red Sept. Bocum White Magnum Large Yellow Sept. Bonum St. Catherine Medium Yellow Mid. e. Sept. In connection with the first of the above lists, it is to be remarked that the greengage, perd- rigons, and more especially Coe's golden drop, although classed as dessert fruit, are also proper for preserving. Plums,Wholesomeness of.—"Plums," remarks Professor Martyn, " when suflSciently ripe, and taken in moderate quantity, are not unwholesome; but in an immature state they are more liable to produce colicky pains, diar- rhoea, or cholera, than any other fruit of this class. Considered medicinally, they are emol- lient, cooling, and laxative, especially prunes, and what are called in England French plums (brignolcs), which arc peculiarly useful in costive habits." Plumbe's (H. M.) Arrowroot. This arrowroot was first introduced into this country by John Williams, the well-known missionary to the South ISca Islands. It is very suitable for breakfast, luncheon, dinner, supper, &c., and can be made into tempting puddings, cus- tards, jellies, and such like articles, as may be seen from the following recipes. For children's food it is excellent. Plumbe's Arrowroot Biscuits.—Hub together three-quarters of a pound of sugar and the same weight of butter until they rise beat three eggs well mixed with these ingredients, then stir in four table-spoonfuls of arrowroot and two cups of sifted flour. Eoll the mixture out, cut the biscuits with a pastry cutter, place them in buttered tins, and bake in a slow oven. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Blanc-Mange. —Take one quart of milk, and mix with it four ounces, or four table-spoonfuls, of arrowroot, flavour to taste, and boil the whole for four minutes, stirring all the time. Allow the blanc- mange to cool in a mould, and send milk and jelly, or milk and sugar, to table with it. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Breakfast- Cakes.—Mix together two cupfuls of arrow- root and half a cupful of flour, add a table- spoonful of salt butter, one egg, and as much milk or water as will bring the whole to the consistency of paste. Eoll out the paste, cut it with a breakfast-cup, and put the cakes in a baking-iron. They will be baked enough in a few minutes. Split and butter them, and send them to table hot. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Cream.—Take one ounce of arrowroot, one quart of milk, and three ounces of lump sugar. 5Iix the arrowroot with a little cold milk and the yolk of an egg, stirring it well and breaking the lumps. Boil the milk with the peel of a lemon and a little cinnamon, sweetening it with the sugar; pour it boiling hot over the arrowroot, stir well till cold, pour into glasses, and serve. Plumbe's Arrowroot Custard. — Take one quart of milk, mix with it two ounces of arrowroot, one or two eggs well beaten, and add a Kttle butter and four table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavour to taste. Boil the custard four minutes, pour it into a pie-dish, and brown before the fire. This is an exquisite delicacy. Plumbe's Arrowroot Custard Pud- ding.—Beat up two or three eggs with a small dessert-spoonful of arrowroot; sweeten with loaf-sugar, and add seven drops of essence of almonds. Pour on this mixture a pint of boil- ing milk—take care that the milk really boUs —and bake immediately for half an hour in a quick oven. Plumbe's Arrowroot Gruel.—Take a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot, and mix with it a wine-glassful of cold water. Pour on this a pint of boiling water; sweeten wdth moist sugar, flavour with a little nutmeg, let the gruel simmer on the fire for five minutes, and then add a table-spoonful of brandy. Plumbe's Arrowroot Jelly (Invalid Cookeky).—This is a nutritious and restoring