( 581 ) PLA PLA an inch in thickness, and cut it into strips the , third of an inch wide. Fasten three, four, or live of those together at the ends, moistening the pastry with a little water to make the pieces stick together; plait them evenly and loosely, and fasten them at the other end. Place the plaits on an oUed baking-tin, brush over them beaten egg, and bake in a well- heated oven. These plaits are useful for oma- | menting open tarts, or they may be sent to table on a separate dish, with small portions of jam of various colours placed in the empty spaces. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Plantain, or Banana—This is the pulpy fruit of the Musa paradisiaea, an herbaceous plant extensively grown in most tropical coun- tries. It is especially cultivated in Mexico. It is used in these regions as an established article of diet, and not like most other fruits, as an occasional luxury. There are many varieties of plantain, the fruit of each possess- ing considerable variations of size, flavour, and shape. In some cases the plantain is not above two or three inches long; in others it is not far short of a foot; some kinds are sweet, and in flavour reminds one of a good mellow pear; the larger kinds, however, are for the most part coarse and farinaceous. "The banana," says McCulloch, " forms a principal part of the food of the people of Mexico, and the apathy and PLANTAIN. indolence of the natives of the tierraa calientes, or hot regions, have been ascribed, and pro- bably with good reason, to the facility with which it supplies them with subsistence. It is by no means in such extensive use in tropical Asia, and in that part of the globe comes no- where into competition with com as an article of food." Gerard says that the pulp of the plantain eats something like that of a musk melon : ho calls the plant Adam's apple-troe, from a notion that it was the forbidden fruit of tho garden of Eden. Others suppose that the plantain was the grape brought out of the Promised Land to Moses. Dampier says it is the king of all fruit, not excepting the cocoa-nut itself. Of the ease with which tho banana is culti- vated in its native region, M. Humboldt, in his £ssai siir la Nouvelle-iEspagne, gives some interesting particulars. "I doubt," he says, " whether there be any other plant that pro- duces so great a quantity of nutritive substance in so small a space. Eight or nine months after the sucker is planted it begins to develop its cluster. The fruit may be gathered in the tenth or eleventh month. When the stalk is cut there is always found, among the numerous shoots that have taken root, a sprout (pimpollo), which, being two-thirds the height of its parent plant, bears fruit two months later. Thus a plantation of bananas perpetuates itself, with- out requiring any care on the part of man, further than to cut the stalks when the fruit has ripened, and to stir the earth gently once or twice a year about the roots." PlantSjWild, Edible, and Poisonous. —In the olden time many vegetables and leaves were eaten which are now neglected, and our ancestors were content to season their homely dishes with wild herbs and plants which we despise. Commerce and horticulture have made us to a certain extent independent of the woods and fields. The subject of edible wild plants, however, ought not to be neglected. By the study of it we may not only upon an occasion increase our own resources, but be of service to the poor by pointing out what plants they may make use of in seasons of scarcity. All vegetables not absolutely poisonous may be rendered edible by proper preparation. Many sorts, for example, are unpalatable from their bitter and acrid taste ; but this may to a great degree be removed by maceration in cold or hot water. The vegetable matter once reduced to a state of insipidity, it is easy to give it taste and flavour by the addition of salt, or by vinegar or oUs, by adding other vegeta- bles of agreeable tastes and flavours, as thyme, mint, celerj'-seed, onions, &c., or by adding roasted carrot, parsnip, potato or dandelion roots, or beans, peas, or wheat, or toasted bread. The leaves of trees and bushes, as birch, beech, willow, and gooseberry, we are told, used to be eaten as salads, and there can be little doubt that man in a primitive state of society would eat almost any green thing that came in his way. For the following list of edible wild plants growing in England we are indebted to Lou- don's admirable "Encyclopaedia of Gardening." Plants that might be used as Greens AND Pot-herbs. Black Bryony (Tamus communis):—A twining perennial, found growing in hedges, and often thought a poisonous plant. The young leaves and tops are eaten in spring by country people. Burrock {Arctium lappa).—A well-known perennial, the tender stalks of which are frequently eaten when boiled. Charlock [Suiapis arvensis). — A common annual weed met with in corn-fields. Tho young plant is eaten in spring as a substitute for turnip-tops, and is considered not inferior to that vegetable. Chick WEEP (Alsine media). — A common