WHI ( 1111 ) WHI it looks like frothed cream. Pour it over the pudding, and serve. Whipped Syllabubs.—Mix a quarter of a pint of sherry with two table-spoonfuls of brandy, stir the mixture into half a pint of thick cream, and add a little grated nutmeg, the strained juice of half a lemon, and as much sugar as will sweeten the syllabub pleasantly. Put the cream into glasses, pile whipped cream upon the sui-face, and serve. SuflB.cient to fill eight glasses. Probable cost, Is. without the sherry and brandy. Time, one hour or more to whip the cream. Whips.—Take some small custard-glasses, half till them with crumbled macaroons, rata- fias, and sponge biscuits in equal proportions, pour upon them a little sherry mixed with a table-spoonful of brandy, spread a thin layer of raspbeny jam upon them, and cover with custard. Heap some whipped cream on the top of the glasses, and serve. Whisky Apples, for Dessert.—Take some large sound sweet apples, pare and core them without dividing the fruit. Weigh them, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a quarter of a pint of whisky, the thin rind and strained juice of a lemon, one inch and a half of stick cinnamon, half an inch of stick vanilla, a piece of whole ginger the size of a bean, two cloves, and three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of apples. Simmer as gently as possible, and turn them over fre- quently till they are tender and quite clear. Take them up carefully, and put them into glazed jars. Strain the syrup, boil quickly for five minutes, and pour it over the fruit. Tie bladder over the jars, and store the fruit in a cool dry place. It will keep for a year or more. Ameiican Newton pippins axe the best for this purpose. Time to simmer the apples, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 3d. for each poimd of apples. Sufficient for a des- sert dish. Whisky, Apples Stewed in (see Apples Stewed in AATiisky). Whisky Cordial.—This cordial should bo made when white currants are in season. Take the thin rind of a large fresh lemon entirely free from the white bitter part. Put it into a jar with half a pint of ripe white currants stripped from the stalks and a piece of whole ginger the size of a bean. Pour over the in- gredients a quart of whisky, and let them in- fuse for twenty-four hours. Strain the liquor, sweeten with haH a pound of loaf sugar, let it stand twelve hours longer, and bottle for use. Cork securely. Time, two days. Whisky Punch. —Rub three or four large lunips of sugar upon the rind of three lemons till the yellow part is taken off, and add more sugar to make up the quantity to six ounces. Put the sugar into a bowl, squeeze upon it the juice of two of the lemons, and pour upon it a pint and a half of boiling water, fetir the mixture tiU the sugar is dissolved. Add a pint of whisky, and the punch will be ready for serving. Whisky Punch (another way).—Whisky, when it can be obtained genuine, is perhaps the purest spirit of any, and the least noxious when taken in large quantities. The sugar is first dissolved in boiling water, and the spirit added either in a tumbler or jug, and that is the general process. Some prefer a little lemon in which case the sugar should be rubbed on the rind, and the juice added in making the syrup. It is also a common practice to add a spuonfui of raspberry jam, which gives a pleasant taste to the beverage. Whisky Punch (another way).—See Punch, Whisky. Whisky Shrub. — Boil five pounds of moist sugar to a syrup with a pint of water. Add the strained juice of four pounds of lemons and one pound of Seville oranges. Stir the liquor, and when it is quite cold add half a pint of poiter and a gallon of pine whisky. Pour the mixture into a jar, cork closely, and shake it each day for seven days. Put it into a cool closet, and leave it for five weeks; then bottle, and store for use. White and Clear Soup, Quenelles for {see Quenelles for White and Clear Soup). Whitebait.—This favourite fish, so highly esteemed by epicures, belongs especially to London, being found in the Thames as far as Blackwall. Great differences exist as to its parentage, many supposing that it is the fry WHITEBAIT, either of the shad, the sprat, or the smelt, and others declaring that it is a distinct species of herring. Perhaps the most general opinion is that it is the fry of the common herring. It is a small silvery-looking fish, from about an iuch in length. It first makes its appearance in March, and is to be had in perfection in May, J.une, and July. It should be procured per- fectly fresh and in an unbroken condition. If not to be used immediately, it should be put into iced water as soon as it is brought in. It is served either fried or deviUed with cayenne, lemons cut into quarters, and brown bread and butter. It requires no sauce. The frj^ of various species of fish are treated as whitebait, and if not too large are passable.