( 1035 ) VEA VEA together for a few minutes; then strain it on the meat, which should have been previously dredged with flour. Fresh or pickled mush- rooms, truffles, morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup should be added. Half the bi-ains beaten up with tiour and butter should be added, and the whole simmered together. The other half of the brains are to be beaten up with lemon-peel and parsley tinely chopped, some nutmeg, mace, and an egg. These are to be fiied in small cakes, also some oysters dipped in yolk of egg; with these and some good force- meat balls the dish must be garnished. Veal—Calfs Head Pie (to be served cold).—Scald, soak, and parboil half a calf's head, with two pounds of the knuckle of veal, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a strip of thin lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, a little salt and cayenne, and as much stock made from bones as will cover the meat. Let the liquor boil, and simmer it for half an hour. Remove the scum as it rises. Let the head get cold, then cut ofl: the flesh in neat pieces convenient for serving. Skin the tongue, and cut it into small square pieces. Strain the liquor in which the head was sinamered, and dissolve a little isinglass or gelatine in it, so that it will jelly strongly when cold. Cut part of the veal into pieces, mince the remainder, and make it into forcemeat with bread-crumbs, shred beef suet, and seasoning {see Veal Force- meat) . Divide this into balls the size of a nut- meg. Butter a good-sized pie-dish. Line it with thin slices of lean ham, and fill it with layers of the calf's head, the tongue, the veal, the forcemeat balls, and hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Season each layer with salt, pepper, grated lemon-rind, and nutmeg. Cover the meat with strained jelly gravj'. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with the same, ornament the surface as fancy dictates, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. "When the pastry is tho- roughly baked the pie is done enough. In favourable weather this pie will keep good for ten days or more. Probable cost, 6s. to 8s. Sufficient for a luncheon or supper dish. Veal--Calf's Head, Plain. —Take a nice calf's head and bone it, that is to say, take off the bones of the lower jaw and of the nose, which you cut off as close to the eyes as possible. Then put all this into a large vessel with warm water to wash and disgorge the blood, or otherwise the head will look reddish. Then blanch it thoroughly, and let it cool. Now make a blanc in the following manner :—Melt over the fire four ounces of finely-chopped beef suet. When clear add four ounces of flour, a gallon of water, two onions sliced, three cloves, a clove of garlic, two bunches of herbs, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and plenty of pepper and salt. Stir the preparation over the fire. When boiling put in the calf's head and the tongue, lay a round of paper over the pan, and simmer for two hours and a half. When done, drain it. Take out the tongue, flay it, and then replace it. A calf's head must be served up quite hot, with the sauce called au pauvre homme (poor man's sauce), namely minced shallots and parsley, vinegar, salt and pepper, and the brains well minced. Veal—Calf's Liver, Fried—Take two pounds of calf's liver. Cut it into slices, and soak these in water for half an hour. Dry them in a soft cloth, and dip them into flour. Fry them with a little fat, and turn them about that they may be equally cooked. When they are lightly browned, sprinkle over them a savoury powder made with equal quantities of chopped parsley and finely-shred young onions, and a little pepper and salt. Pour a little stock over the liver, let it simmer a few minutes, add tho strained juice of a lemon, and serve the liver on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. If liked, this iish may be eni-iched by adding a pinch of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a glassful of hght wine to the stock. Fried bacon may then be served with it. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes to dress the liver. Sufficient for fouz- or five persons. Probable cost of calf's liver, lOd. per pound. Veal, Choosing of.—The flesh of veal ought to be white, approaching to pink, with the fat firm. It should not be too large or it will be coarse and hard. The vein in the shoulder should be of a bright red, and the kidneys should be covered with fat. If the flesh be clammy and discoloured by spots of various hues, the veal is unfit for use. Veal is best when it is from two to three months old. The flesh of the bull-calf is suited for joints, that of the cow-calf for made dishes. The latter possesses the udder, which causes it to be preferred. That part of the loin whicli is under the kidney first begins to taint. It should therefore be examined carefully before being purchased. When the udder is skewered back it is always well to take out the skewer in order to ascertain whether the under part is perfectly sweet. Under the pretext of making- veal white a barbarous practice has prevailed of bleeding the calves daily until they have scarcely any blood left before killing them. Although this method of slaughtering the animal is not now universally adopted, it is still carried on to a large extent. The humane house- keeper would do well to ask the butcher whether or not the meat is killed in this way, and to refuse to purchase it unless the caLf has been deprived of life with as little pain as possible. " It is necessary to observe," says M. Ude, "that the veal you intend to serve for dishes must always be very white and fat; what you use for sauces is not of so much consequence; but it is certain that very white veal is more healthy than common veal: red veal will dis- order a great many stomachs, white never does." Veal Chop Stewed with Carrots.— Take a large chop from the neck, about one pound in weight, saw off the chine bone, trim the chop neatly, and fry it in a little hot fat for three or four minutes till it is lightly browned on both sides. Take it up, drain it, and put it into a small clean saucepan "vsnth two largo carrots cut into thick slices, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little pepper and salt. _ Pour over the meat as much boiling stock as will eover it; put the lid on the saiiccparu