TRO ( 995 ) TRO boat, or Dutch sauce. The length of time it should boil is left to the judgment of the cook ; the si/e detoi-mines the time. But keep in mind that when the fish remains long in the water it loses its flavour and quality ; for this reason take care to boU it precisely at the time it is wanted. Trout, Broiled.—Choose some moderate- sized trout; empty, wash, and drj^ thera, then spHt the fish down the back, and, without injuring it, spread it open on a dish. Season with salt and cayenne, and a little lemon- juice, and brush it well all over with oil or clarified butter. Broil it over a clear fire, turning and basting it with butter every now and then. Serve on a hot dish, and send parsley, mushroom, or piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Some cooks split the trout open, rub them all over with salt, let them lie two or three hours, then hang them up till wanted, or for eight or ten hours before boiling them. Time to broU, five minutes or more, according to size. Trout, Choosing of.—The female fish is considerea the best. It may be known by its head being smaller and its body deeper than that of the male. When trout is fresh, the skin is most beautiful in appearance, silvery and golden tints intermingling, the eyes are bright, the gills red, and the body firm. The most deUcate trout are those which weigh I about a pound. The fish is in season from May to September. Trout, Collared.—"Wash, empty, and dry the trout. Cut off the heads, split them open, and take out the bones. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace over the in- side, roll each fish separately, and tie it round with a little cotton. Lay the fish side by side in a baking-dish, pour over them equal parts of beer and vinegar sufficient to cover them, and put two or three bay-leaves, and a dozen peppercorns or more into the liquor. Tie a sheet of buttered paper over the dish, and bake the trout in a moderate oven. When they are half done, turn them over that they may be equally cooked all through, and baste them once or twice with the liquor. Time to bake, one hour. Trout. Filleted.—Clean and dry the trout, and raise the flesh from the bones by passing a sharp knife close to the spine. Divide the flesh into neat pieces convenient for serving, dip these into beaten egg, and after- wards roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain on blotting-paper before the fire for five or six minutes, and then serve on a hot dish. Garnish the dish with shrimps, prawns, pars- ley, or lemon, and send shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, tomato sauce, or tartar sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry, about eiglit or ton minutes. Trout, Fried. —-Empty, clean, and dry the fish thoroughly, cut ofl; the fins and gills, but leave the heads on. Rub them over with flour, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. When they are brown on one side, turn them carefully apon the otlior. Lift them out, and fli-ain thciu on blotting-paper before the fire. Serve on a hot napkin, garnish with parsley, and send plain melted butter or any other suitable sauce to table with them. If liked, the flour may be dusted off, and the trout may afterwards be dipped in beaten egg, covered with bread- crumbs, and fried as before. This is a favourite way of dressing trout. Time to fry, six to ten minutes, according to size. Sufficient, three or four trout for a dish. Trout in Jelly. —Wash the fish carefully, and form them into rings with their tails in their mouths. Boil water with a little vine- gar, salt, a shaUot, or clove of garlic, and any approved seasoning. Set it aside to cool, and when cold lay in the fish, and sinmaer for a few minutes after the water has just come to the boil. Lift the fish out carefully, drain them, and baste with clear fish jelly. When the fish basting has set lay on another, until the fish are nicely coated. Arrange and garnish to taste. Trout, Pickled.—Take the remains of cold boiled or stewed trout. Remove the skin and bones, divide the flesh into neat pieces, put these into a deep dish, and strain over them a pickle prepared as follows:—Mince three, moderate-sized onions, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, a chopped turnip, a bunch of parsley, a I sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire for five minutes; pour over them a pint of vinegar and a pint of boiling water. Let the liquor boil for twenty minutes, and it will be ready for use. Trout thus pickled will keep three or four days, and the same pickle may be used three or four times if it is freshly boiled when required. Trout, Potted.—Take six or eight mode- rate-sized fresh fish; scrape them, empty them, cut ofl: the fins and heads, split them open, and remove the back-bone. Mix three tea-spoonfuls of salt with an equal quantity of white pepper and a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, or half a grated nutmeg. Rub a portion of thjs seasoning into the insides of the fish, close them, and place them in layers head to tail in a deep baking-dish, put little pieces of butter between the layers and on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as they are done enough, drain off the liquor in the paii, and lay the trout full-length in a potting-jar. When cold, cover them a quarter of an inch, thick with clarified butter which is just begin- ning to stiffen, and set them in a cool place till wanted. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Trout, Potted (another way).—-See Grilse or Trout, To Pot. Trout, Potted (another way).—Take six or eight fresh trout, cut off the heads, fins, and tails, empty them, split them open, and bone them. Lay them, backs uppermost, in a dish, a,nd press them together. Tie the following spices in muslin :—Half a tea-spoonful of pep- percorns, a tea-spoonful of ginger, three salt- spoonfuls of s;ilt, two b;iv-l(>aves, two cloves, three allspice, and a pinch of cayenne. Lay tliia.