( 1134 ) WIN to the progress of tho fennontation and tho treatment as formerly described. Tho liquor thuH obtiuned ia tho artificial must, wliich is equivalent to tho juico of tho grapo—that is, made to resomblo it as nearly as possible. It is no-w to be introduced into a tub of sufficient capacity, over which a blanket or similar sub- stance, covered by a board, is to bo thrown, the vessel being placed ui a temperature vary- ing from 60'' to 60^ of Fahrenheit's themo- motor. Hero it may remain for twelve or twenty-four hours, according to the symptoms of fermentation which it may show, and from this tub it is to be drawn off into tho cask in which it is to ferment. When in tho cask it must be filled nearly to the bung-hole, that the scum which arises may be thrown out. As the fermentation proceeds, and the bulk of the liquor in the cask diminishes, the superfluous portion of mmt, which was made for this express purpose, must be poured in, so as to keep the liquor still near the bung-hole. When the fermentation becomes a little more languid, as may be known by a diminution of the hissing sound, the bung is to be driven in, and a hole bored by its side, into which a wooden peg, called the spile, is to be fitted. After a few days this peg is to be loosened, that, if any material quantity of it has been generated, it may fijad vent. The same trial must be made after successive intervals, and when there appears no longer any danger of extensive ex- pansion, the spile may be permanently tight- ened. The wine thus made must remain over the winter in a cool cellar, as it is no longer necessary to provoke the fermenting process. If the operator is not incHned to bestow any further labour or expense on it, it may be examined on some clear and cold day towards the end of February or beginning of March, when, if fine, as it will sometimes be, it may be bottled without further precautions. To ensure its fineness, however, it is a better practice to decant it, towards the end of December, into a fresh cask, so as to clear it from the first lees. At this time also the operator will be able to determine whether it is not too sweet for his views. In this case, instead of decanting it, he will stir up the lees, so as to renew the fer- menting process, taking care also to increase the temperature at the same time. At whatever time the wine has been decanted, it is to be fined in the usual way with isinglass. Some- times it is found expedient to decant it a second time into a fresh cask, and again to repeat the operation of fining. All these removals should be made in clear, dry, and, if possible, cold weather. In any case the wine must be bottled during the month of March. The wines thus produced will generally be brisk, and similar in their qualities (flavour excepted) to the wines of Champagne, with the strength of the best Sillory, if the larger proportions of sugar have been used,but resembling tho inferior kinds with the smaller allowance. Inattention, or circum- stances which cannot always be controlled, will sometimes cause it to be sweet and still, at other times to bo dry. In the former case it may be manufactured the following season, by adding to it that proportion of juice from fresh fruit which the operator's judgment may dictate, and renewing the fermentation and suljHOfiuont treatment as before. In the latter case, as its briskness can never be restored, it must bo treated as dry wine, by decanting into a sulphured cask, when it must be fined and bottled in the usual manner. Such dry wines are occasionally disagreeable to tho taste in the first or second year, but are much improved by keeping, nor ought they to be drunk under five or six years." Wine Jelly for an Invalid (see Jelly, Weak AVino, for an Invalid). Wine Jelly, Madeira.—This jelly U made just like calf's-foot jeUy. When the jelly is nearly clarified, pour into the same stewpan a bottle of madeira. As the operation of clarifying takes away the strength of the wine, you must add half a bottle of brandy to it. You must observe that this jelly will keep for several days, and that accordingly what you have left, and what is sent down from table, will be sufficient to supply you with another entremet some other day. This is a common jelly, which cooks frequently serve; therefore, in order to avoid monotony, you must ornament it with another jelly, which make as follows:—Take four spoonfuls of the wine jeUy, break the yolks of four eggs into a stewpan, beat the eggs with the jelly, and lay it on the fire to thicken; then strain it through a sieve, lay it on ice in a basin, and use it for the same purpose, to decorate as in the recipe Winter Jelly, Mosaic. It sometimes happens that the jellies made of calf's feet will break when you turn them up- side down into a dish. To prevent this accident, throw in a pinch of isinglass when you Eire going to clarify the jelly. It gives it a greater substance. This jelly is a monotonous one, but the sagacity of the cook will in some respects alter this character, for he will sometimes give this jelly plain, sometimes with grapes in it, and sometimes put it in a cylinder mould. When you have turned the jelly, have some of the same in ice, take a stewpan cover, chop some of the jellj'^ very fine, and put it some- times all round, sometimes in the middle, and try by yom* intelligence to supply the deficiency of the art whenever you can. This jeUy is • made in aU seasons; in summer strawberries are excellent in it, and the flavour of the fruit harmonises well with the jelly. Wine JeUy, Madeira (another way).— See Madeii-a Wme JeUy. Wine Lozenges.—Steep one oxmce of isinglass in water lor twelve hours—use very little water for this purpose—then boil in a pint of port or madeira tmtil evaporated to one-half. Poirr into a mould; when cold cut into lozenges with a large pair of scissors. Those lozenges, used in moderation, are highly tonic. Wine, Marigold. —Take twenty-five pounds of good loaf sugar and four pounds of honey, and boil them, with ten gallons of soft water and tho whites of eight eggs well-beaten, one hour, skimming it imtil quite clear, and pour it hot upon three pocks of marigold flowers and four pounds of good raisins stoned and shred, covering the vessel close. Next day stir