TUB TUR ( 1009 ) into a clean saucepan, place this by the side of the tire, and carefully remove the grease, &c., as it rises to the surface. When no more appesirs, boil the ssiuce quickly for a few niiuutes. Servo the turkey on a hot dish. Arrange the vegetables round it, and pour the sauce over. Garnish the dish with small boiled potatoes or with roasted chestnuts. Time to di-ess the turkey, five hours. Turkey Patties.—Make some patties or small vol-au-vents of good puff paste, and bake them separately. Whsn they are baked enough, take them out of the oven, and three- parts fiU them with a hot savoury mixture prepared as follows:—Mince a little of the white meat of a cold dressed turkey very finely, and add a small proportion of grated ham. Stew this gently for a minute or two in as much melted butter or good gravy as will barely cover it, add a spoonful of thick cream, and season the preparation with a little grated lemon-rind, white pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Care should be taken that the mince is made very thick, and that the patties are not filled so full that the gravy will run over. Time, a quarter of an hour to prepare the mince. Probable cost, patties, 2d. each, exclu- sive of the cold meat. Sufficient, eight or ten for a dish. Turkey Pinions, Stewed. — "Remove the large wing-bone from the pinions, and fold the skin over at the end. Fry the wings in a little butter till they are Hghtly browned, dredge some flour over, barely cover them with stock, and add a bunch of parsley, a small onion stuck with one clove, and a little pepper and salt. A glassful of claret may be put into the stock if Uked. Let all simmer gently together for an horn-, then add half a dozen small onions fried in butter, and four or five mushrooms chopped small. Just before serving the stew, mince a tea-spoonful of capers finely, and stir it into the sauce. Put the pinions into the centre of a dish, pour the sauce over and round them, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is., exclusive of the pinions. Sufficient, one set of pinions for one or two persons. Turkey Pinions, Stewed (another way). —Prepare the pinions as in the preceding re- cipe. Fi-y them in butter or bacon-fat till they are lightly browned, then pour some nicely- flavoured white stock over them, and simmer gently until done enough. Lay them between two dishes, and let them remain until cold. Strain the gravy, and free it entirely from fat. Boil quickly until it is so much reduced that it will jelly when cold. When the pinions are to be served, warm them in the gravy, and let the gravy simmer again imtil it is quite thick. Put the pinions on a dish, lightly cover them with the gravy, and send the rest to table in a tureen. This dish may be sent to table with sorrel, or with a purde of chestnuts or lentils. Time, an hour and a half to stew the pinions. Sufficient, one set of pinions for one or two persons. Turkey, Plucking of.—When plucking aturkoy, or poultry of any kind, be car( fnl to pull out the feathers in the direction in which they lie. If this point is not attended to, the skin may be torn and the appearance of the bird spoiled. After the bird is plucked, singe off the hairs with a lighted paper. Turkey, Potted.—Take a small turkey weighing about five pounds; pluck, singe, draw, and bone it, and cut off the neck and legs. Lay it skin downwards on a table, season with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, spread a layer of forcemeat aU over it, and roll it round. Choose a potting-pan of a suitable size for the turkey. Place a layer of forcemeat at the bottom, put in the bird, and cover with forcemeat. Lay three or four thin slices of I fat bacon and a bay-leaf on the top. Cover 1 the pan, and place it in a large saucepan with j boiling water two inches deep, and add more j boiling water as this evaporates to keep it to i the same depth. Put it into the oven, and let i it cook gently until done enough. In order to i ascertain when this point is reached, push a trussing-needle right through the body of the ' bird, and when it enters easily the turkey may ! be taken out. Let it get cold, and cover the ' surface with a layer of good dripping or laid. Set it in a cool place for several hours, and it will i be ready for use. The forcemeat may be made { as follows:—Cut the meat in slices, free from I skin and sinew, from the legs of the bird. Put ', with it half a pound of lean veal and a pound ! of fat bacon. Mince all finely together, and pound the mixture till it is quite smooth, and ; whilst pounding keep adding pepper, salt, and i spice until it is pleasantly flavoured. The [ quantity of salt must be regulated by the quality of the bacon. Time to bake, three hours. Turkey, Potted (another way).—Cut the flesh from a cold roast turkey, and free it from skin and sinew. Weigh it, mince finely, and pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste with one-fourth of its weight in grated tongue or ham, an equal weight of fresh butter, and whilst poimding the meat keep adding salt, pepper, and powdered mace in small quantities at a time till it is pleasantly and rather highly seasoned. WTien the meat is quite smooth, press it into small pots, and cover with clarified butter a quarter of an inch deep. Store in a cool place. Time, thi-ee-quarters of an hour or more to prepare. Turkey Poult, Cold, To Re-dress. —The remains of a turkey poult may be minced, made into patties, croquettes, &c., or, indeed, dressed up in various ways very much like the larger bird. The following wiU be found to be the most satisfactory way of serving it a second time:—Cut the meat into neat pieces free fi-om skin, bone, and sinew. Put the trimmings into a saucepan with a pint of white stock, a small bunch of parsley, a finely-minced shallot, and six mushrooms chopped small. Add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and simmer the sauce till it is plea- santly flavoured and partly reduced. Strain it, thicken with a little white roux or with flour and butter, and add an equal quantity of new milk or cream. Stir it over the fire till it