( 590 ) ■PLU boil, four to five hours. Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Plum Pudding, French, {see French Plum Pudding). Plum Pudding, Hedgehog.—Grate one pound of stale broad very finely, and mix with it half a pound of di-ied floui-. Add a toa- spoonful of salt, a povmd of currants carefully cleaned and diied, a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a pound of beef suet finely minced, two ounces each of candied lemon, citron, and orange, half a pound of brown sugar, the rind of a large lemon rubbed upon sugar and crushed to powder, a small nutmeg g-rated, an ounce of sweet almonds, and three bitter ones blanched and chopped small. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly; moisten them with eight eggs well beaten up and mixed with a glass of brandy or a glassful of ale. If preferred, milk may be used instead of the ale, but no more liquid should be employed than is required to moisten the pudding. Tie the pudding in a mould or cloth, put it into a large pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. If a mould is used, the pudding should entirely fill it. Turn it out, and when it is dished stick over it, as thickly as possible, three ounces of almonds which have been already blanched. This pudding will keep for six months after boiling. It will only re- quire to be boiled again for an hour before being used. Time to boil, ten hours. If the pudding is allowed to simmer only, the sweet- ness will go into the water. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Plum Pudding, Plain. — Shred six ounces of suet very finely, add a pound of flour, a quarter of a poimd of currants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of baking-powder. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, and stir into them three- quarters of a pint of milk in which has been dissolved three table-spoonfuls of treacle. Tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil it until done enough. A little spice and sugar may be added if liked. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Pudding, Sauce for.—Plum pudding when served at Christmas is generally sent to table with brandy only poured over it and lighted. At other times, or when sauce is required, sweetened melted butter, fiavoured or not with brandy, may be served in a tureen, or any of the following sauces:—Rich Sauce.-—Take two spoonfuls of poTinded lump sugar, and, if liked, a pinch of grated lemon-rind. Put it into a bowl by the side of the fire, and pour over it a table-spoonful of brandy and two ounces of clarified butter. When the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, pour in another table- spoonful of brandy, and a glass of sherry. Stir the sauce a minute, and pour it over the pudding, or serve in a tureen. If Uked, the mixture may be stirred into a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter, and sent to table with a Uttlo nutmeg grated over it. Time, five or six minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Almond Sauce.—Blanch an ounce of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, and pound them to a smooth paste with a tablospoonful of orange-flower water. Mix with tlioin tlu-ee ounces of powdered sugar, and poui- over them a quarter of a piut of boiling cream. Stir the sauce until it is well mixed. Add the yolks of two eggs, and stir it over a slow fire until it begins to thicken. Whisk it to a froth, and serve. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Arrowroot Sauce.—Mix a table- spoonful of arrowroot to a smooth paste with two table-spoonfuls of water. Add two table- spoonfuls of loaf sugar and a third of a pint of milk or water. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils. Flavour with wine, liqueurs, or any kind of fiavouring. Time, fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 3d., made with water and fiavoured with lemon. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plum Pudding with Apples.—Chop four ounces of apples very small; mix with them four ounces of currants cleaned and dried, two ounces of raisins stoned and chopped, four ounces of the crumb of bread finely grated, a heaped table-spoonful of loaf-sugar, and half an ounce of candied peel. Stir into the mixture one ounce and a half of clarified butter and four weU-beaten eggs. Pour the pudding into a buttered motild, or tie it in a cloth, and boil until it is done enough. This pudding is better if mixed the day before it is wanted. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four persons. Plum Pudding without Eggs.-;-Shred finely four ounces of beef suet; add a pinch of salt, a table-spoonful of flour, half a poimd of finely-grated bread-crumbs, six ounces of currants, picked and dried, two table-spoon- fuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and a Httle candied peel. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, then stir into the mixture as much milk as will make a stiff batter. A table-spoon- ful of brandy may [be added or not. Tie the pudding in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly imtil done enough. This pudding may, if liked, be baked instead of being boiled. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plum Pudding without Suet (another way).—Break three eggs into a bowl, and whisk them thoroughly. Mix smoothly with them three ounces of flom-, and add three table- spoonfuls of sugar, half a small nutmeg grated, and, very gradually, half a pint of milk flavoured with lemon-rind. Beat the mixtiire for some minutes. Put in three ounces of grated bread- crumbs, three ounces of raisins stoned and chopped, three oimces of currants picked and dried, and three ounces of butter broken into small pieces. When the pudding is well mixed, pour it into a buttered mould, tie a cloth over it, phmge it into boiling water, and keep it boihng quickly until done enough. Send bnmdy sauce to table with it. Time to boil, two and a half hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Plum Sauce for Puddings and Sweet Dishes.—Wash and stono the plums. Break the stones, and simmer the kernels in as much water as will barely cover them until the