( 668 ) PUM a pint of broth, a large blade of pounded mace, a finoly-mincod Hhallot, the juico of half a lemon, and a roll of the pool, some salt, and a few grains of cayenne ; thicken with flour and butter, and lot it simmer for two or three minutes, till the meat is warm. In the mean- time score the legs and rump, powder them with pepper and salt, broil them nicely brown, and lay them on or round the pulled chicken. Three table-spoonfuls of good creiim, or the yolks of as many oggs, will be a groat improve- ment to this dish. Pulque—This is a beverage much de- lighted m by the Mexicans and inhabitants of some parts of Central and South America. It is made from the juice of different species of agave. The juice is collected by cutting out the flowering stem just when it is 'beginning to grow from the midst of the leaves, and scooping a hole for the juice. The cavity being formed, large quantities of juice are removed daily from it for montlis. WHien fresh, pulque is an agreeable drink, but it is more frequently drunk after fermentation, when its taste is more pleasant. The great drawback is a putrid smeU, but one gets over that in time. Mixed with water and sugar, and allowed to ferment for a few hours, pulque forms a beverage called Tepach. Pulse.—Under this name are ranged the edible seeds of legmninous plants. The most important of all kinds of pulse are peas and beans; after these may be ranked kidney-beans, lentUs, chick-peas, &c. The best kinds of pulse contain a great deal of nutriment. They are not, however, easy of digestion, and are apt to produce flatulence. Pumpkin.—The pimipkin sometimes grows to a great size, as large as two feet in diameter. It is never eaten excepting when cooked. Pumpkin and Rice Soup.—Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it gently until it is almost soft. Drain it, and put it aside. Pare a small pumpkin, take out the seeds, and slice the whole or half of it. Cut it into slices, and put these in a saucepan, with two large onions, two cloves, four or five sticks of celery, a sprig of parsley, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, and two quarts of water. Simmer all gently together until the vegetables are quite soft, then rub them through a colander, and keep back the fibrous portion. Set the puree, with the liquor that has run through the colander with it, again upon the fire, add the rice, and boil gently imtil the latter is tender. Serve verj' hot. The soup wiU be much improved if nicely-flavoured.stock, or the liquor in which meat has been boiled, bo used instead of water. Time, two hours and a half. Probable coat of pumpkins, imcertain. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Pumpkin Pie (a Cornish recipe).—Take a ripe pumpkin, and chip off the rind or skin; halve it, and take out the seed and puffy part in the centre, which throw away. Cut the punrplcin into small thin slices; fill a pie-dish therc\vith; add to it half a tea-spoonful of pimento, and a table-spoonful of sugar, with ft small quantity of w^tey. Covey with a nice light paste, and bake in the ordinary way lumpkin pie is greatly improved by beir)<' eat(;n with clotted cream and sugar. An equal quiintity of apples with the pumpkin will make a still more deUcious pie. Pumpkin, Preserved. — Take a fresh pumpkin. Pare it, halve it, and pick out the seeds, then cut it into thin slices about the size of the palm of one's hand. Weigh these slices, and allow a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of two krge lemons, the peel of one, and lialf a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, to each pound of pumpkin. Lay the slices in layers upon a large dish, sprinkle the sugar between the layers, strain the lemon-juice over the whole, and leave it for two or three days. At the end of that time, turn the whole into a preserving-pan with the lemon-rind thinly sliced over, and allow a breakfast-cupful of water for every three pounds of sugar used. Boil the mixture gently until the slices are tender, turn them into a bowl, and let them remain covered for six or eight days. Throw away the bag con- taining the ginger. Strain off the syrup, ami boil it again until it is thick; pour it at once over the pumpkin. Put the slices of pumpkin into jars, and cover these with paper dipped in the white of an egg. Store in a cool dry place. Time, twelve days. Probable cost, uncertain. Pumpkin Pudding. — Take a large pumpkin, pare it, and remove the seeds. Cut half of it into thin slices, and boil these gently in water until they are quite soft, then rub them through a fine sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Measure the pulp, and with each pint put four oimces of butter, a large tea-spoonful of poimded mace, and a small nutmeg, grated. Stir the mixture briskly for a minute or two, then add the third of a pint of hot milk and four well-beaten eggs. A glass- ful of wine may be added or not. Pour the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. It will be suflicient for five or six persons. Pumpkin Pudding (another way).— Boil the pumpkin, and rub it through a sieve, as in the last recipe. With a pint of the pulp put three-quarters of a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter, a large nutmeg, grated, a pinch of powdered mace, three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, two table-spoonfuls of picked and dried currants, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture briskly for two or three minutes. Line a dish with pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Pumpkin Pudding (another way).—Cut a pumpkin into square pieces, and stir the pieces over the fire in a saucepan until they become soft. If they are now found to be too moist, squeeze them in a cloth to get rid of some of the water. Then put the pulp in a stewpan with some butter, and fr>- it. ^^^lon done, mix a spoonful of arrowroot in milk, sweetened with sugar, and simmer the wfeoje