tro TBI ( 993 ) at the bottom of the dish, and place upon this the tripe with the jellied gmvy adhering to it. Season with pepper and salt, place little pieces of butter here and there on the meat, and pour in two or three spoonfuls of good brown gravy. Cover the dish with a good crust, and bake the pie in a well-heated oven. When the pastry is sufficiently cooked it is done enough. Time to bake, according to size. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Tripe, Roasted.—Take about a poimd and a half of tripe, wash, and boil it in mUk and water for an hour. Cut it into two oblong pieces of equiil size, spread on the fat side of one piece some good veal forcemeat, and lay upon it the other piece the fat side inwards. Koll and skewer the tripe securely, and tie it round with thin string. Fasten it on the spit, put it down before a clear fire, dredge with flour, and baste liberally. When done enough, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with sliced lemon. Send melted butter to table in a tureen. Time to roast, half an hour or more. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or foui- persons. Tripe Stewed in its own Jelly (Bir- mingham way).—Take some clean, fat, white tripe. Throw it into boiling water for ten minutes, drain and dry it, and cut it into pieces. Roll these up neatly, and tie them round with thin string. Put them into an earthen jar which has a closely-fitting lid, and put with them a knuckle of veal or a calf's foot, and a little salt and pepper. Place the lid on the jar, and put it in a large pan of boiling water, keep it boiling, and add more water when required. When done enough, lift out the jar without dis- turbing the contents, and put it in a cool place. The tripe should remain in its own jelly until wanted, when it may be taken out and dressed in various ways. It will keep for three or four days. Time to stew, eight hours or more. Probable cost, tripe, 8d. per pound. Tripe Stewed with Bacon. —Take two pounds of fresh white tripe, half a pound of bacon, and a calf's foot. Cut the tripe into pieces three inches square, and scald these in boiling water for five minutes. Bone the foot, scald it for ten minutes, and cut it into six or eight pieces. Divide the bacon also into pieces convenient for serving. Put the meat into a stewpan with a large bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, three large onions, two cloves, and a little pepper and salt, and pour in as much broth as will cover the whole. A glassful of brandy may be added or not. Cover the saucepan closely, let its contents boil, then draw it to the side, and let them simmer very gently until the meat is done enough. Take out the herbs, skim the sauce carefully, and serve the stewed meat in a tureen with the sauce poured over it. Send it to table as hot as possible. Time to stew, three hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Trotters, Sheep's.—Take six or eight sheep's feet. Reinovo the wool, and singe them, then throw them into faat-boiling water, let thom bf>il quickly for five minutes, dxiiin them, 2 u and let them cool. Take the foot firmly in the left hand, give the bone a jerk with the right hand, and draw it out. Cut the hoof from the end of the foot, and put the feet into cold water. Let them boil, then simmer them aa gently as possible untU they are quite tender. Fill them with good veal forcemeat, and bind the feet with packthread to keep them in shape. Put them into a stewpan with as much of the liquor in which they were boiled as will cover them, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Boil them gently for half an hour, lift them out, and lay them on a dish. Strain the sauce, boil it down to glaze, and brush this over the feet. The trotters may be accompanied by tomato sauce, Robert sauce, or piquant sauce, and any stewed vegetables, or they may be eaten cold with oil and vinegar. Time to boil the trotters, three or four hours. Sufficient, three or four for a small dish. Trotters, Sheep's (another way),—^See also Mutton Trotters. Trotters, Sheep's, Fried.-Stuff and stew the trotters as above. Make a frying- batter as follows :—Mix a pinch of salt witli five ounces of flour, and mix smoothly with thir a quarter of a pint of water. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of olive oil or oUed butter, and add the mixtui'e to the batter. Put it in a cool place for an hour or two, and a few minutes before it is wanted stir in the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Dip the trotters into the batter, and then fry in plenty of hot fat till they are lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish, and send tomato or Robert sauce to table with them. Time to fry, a few minutes. Sufficient, three or four for a small dish. Trotters, Sheep's, Marinaded.—Bone and boil the trotters till tender, according to the dii-ections already given, and press them between two dishes till cold. Cut them into neat slices, and lay them in a marinade made with two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a table- spoonful of oil, and a little pepper and salt. Let them lie in this for an hour, place them on a sieve, and drain for twenty minutes. Dip the pieces separately in batter, and fry them as in the last recipe. Time to boil, three hours and a half; to fry, a few minutes. Trout.—There are two or three kinds of trout—common trout, sea trout, and white trout. The sea trout reaches a good size, but the white trout never does. River trout is a most de- hcicus fish, highly esteemed by epicures. It is seldom met with of a large size, and those are most debcate m flavour which weigh from three quarters of a pound to one pound. The female fish IS considered better than the male. It may be known by its body being deeper and its head smaller than the other. Trout may be dressed m various ways, amongst which bailing is the last to be recommended, as it is then rather msipid in flavour. It is in season from May to September, and is m perfection in June. Trout (Ji la Genovese)._Take two moderate- sized trout clean carefully, and wipe them dry Dissolve a quarter of a poimd of fresh butter m a stewpan, and put with it a small