( 626 ) POT POT To retain the highest amount of nourish- ment in potatoes they should, be di-essed with their skins on, as we have said elsewhere. If they are at aU dry or shrivelled they may advantageously be left to soak for three or four hours in cold water before being cooked. Potatoes dressed in their jackets have been found to bo nearly twice as rich in potassa salts as those which have first been peeled. "As an addition to other and more nutritive food, the potato is most valuable; as the sole article of diet, although capable of supporting life, it is a wretched material, and any com- bination of circumstances which induces or compels a population to depend upon it in too great a degree must be regarded as most unfortunate. "The potato undoubtedly contains the ele- ments of nutrition—that is starch and gummy matters capable of sustaining the respiratory processes, and also ' plastic material' adapted to build up the muscular and other constituents of li\Tng animal bodies, but those plastic materials are so deficient in quantity, their amount is so small compared with that of the other consti- tuents of the tuber, which, moreover, contains a large amount of water, that a man living solely upon potatoes must consume a very large quantity to keep himself in health and sti'ength, even if he can do the latter, when undergoing anything like exertion. From seven to eight pounds per day is by no means an unusual amount for a labouring Irishman to consume; but the ten pounds of the root contain no more real nutriment than one pound and a half of good wheaten bread, although they afford abundant respiratory or carbon material. In consequence of the less amount of muscular * plastic' nutriment contained in his food, the Irish labourer is less adapted for continued exertion than the Englishman on his wheat and meat, or the Scotchman on his oatmeal. More- over, it has been remarked that the constitution of the Irish labourer is apt to give way earlier in Hfe than that of the men of the sister king- doms, and he is certainly more liable to be the victim of epidemic diseases. "A remark of Liebig's well illustrates the value of the potato as an article of nutriment; he 8<'i}'s, ' a horse fed on potatoes and compelled to work loses weight; when he does no work, his weight remains unchanged,' thus evidently showing that the root is tmable to supply the loss by ' motor change,' when active muscular exertion is undergone." Potato Omelet.—Take a largo freshly- bakod potato, break it open, and scoop out the inside \vith a spoon. Beat this till smooth, and mix with it a little pepper and salt, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, and the yolks of four eggs. A minute or two before the omelet is to be fried, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Fry in the usual way, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley. Time to fr>', five or six minutes. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Potato Omelet (another way). — See Omelet, Potato. Potato Pasty, Modern.—In order to make this properly, a pasty-pan must be pro- cured which has a well-fitting perforated plate, and a valve-pipe to screw on. This can be had of almost any ironmonger, and will cost Iroiii 4s. to 5s. The meat, seasoning, and gravy are put into the lower part. The plate is then laid on the meat, the valve-pipe screwed on, ani mashed potatoes spread equally on the top. The pasty should be baked in a moderate oven and sent to table in the same tin in which ^t POTATO PASTY PAN. was baked, which should have a neatly-folded, napkin pinned roimd it. The cover should not be removed until the meat is to be served, and an empty dish should be placed in readiness f ex- it. If properly baked, the potatoes will be nicely bro-wned, and will be flavoured like the meat. The contents of this pie may of course be varied indefinitely. Mutton or veal cutlets, pork chops,, chickens or rabbits cut into neat joints, and fish of various kinds may all be used, and will all be found excellent. The meat should be neatly trimmed, and nicely seasoned, and a small quantity of gravy poured over it. The mashed potatoes should form a crust at least three inches thick. Two pounds of meat and three pounds of potatoes wiU make a moderate- sized pasty. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for four persons. Potato Patties.—Take as many large- well-shaped potatoes as it is intended there- should be patties, wash them well, and bake them. Take them out before they are quite done enough, so that the skin may not be in- jured, and carefully cut off the top, and scoop out the inside with a spoon. Mix with the flouiy part two or three spoonfuls of thick cream, a little piece of butter, and a pinch of salt, together with sugar, lemon or cinnamon flavouring, and the yolks and whites of two or three eggs- beaten and added sei^arately. Put this mixture- into the hollow potatoes, place them tipright side by side in a buttered dish, and bake them in a hot oven. If liked, saA'Oury instead of sweet potato patties can be made by mixing- with the potato flour a little pounded veal and ham, and cream, salt, pepper, lemon-peel,, grated nutmeg, and mushroom ketchup added in suitable proportions. Time to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes. Potato Pie.—It is a good plan to havt^ made a tin lid perforated with holes, and witVi a handle at aach end, to fit an ordinary-sized pie-dish, on pur^iose for potato pies. This lid should fit down at least an inch below the level of the dish, and before using it the first tim(^ it should be washed in boiling soda rind water.