( 834 ) SAU SAU it in that position. Enc loao it in good suotcrust, ' pinch tho edges securely to prevent leakage, j and tie each dumpling in a separate cloth. When all are finished plunge the dumplings ' into a pan of boiling water, and ])oil (piickly ' until done enough. Turn them out carefully, and serve at once. Brown sauce should he sent to table with them. Sausages dressed in this way are always liked by children. Time to boil the dumplings, lialf to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. Sausage, Italian.—Mince two pounds of lean pork with one pound of fat pork. Season tho mixture with salt, mixed spice, coriander- seed, and bruised aniseed. When the ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, moisten the mixture with pig's blood and white wine suf- ficiently to bind it together, but be careful not to render it too moist. Cut some narrow strips from the best part of a calf's head, mix these with the mince, and put the preparation into sausage-skins. Tie the ends securely, plunge the sausages into boiling water, and boil them gently until done enough. Afterwards dry them in a smoke-house, or in a chimney over a wood fire, till they become hard. Time to boil, half an hour. Sausage-meat Cakes.—Make the sau- sage-meat in the usual way, and allow two parts of lean to one of fat. Season nicely, and after mincing the meat pound it lightly in a mortar. Make it up into round cakes; flour these, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned on both sides. Take them up, drain them on a sieve, and serve on a hot dish. Send brown sauce to table with them. If liked, the sausage-cakes can be placed round a dish with mashed potatoes in the centre. Time to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. per pound. Sausage-meat Cakes (another way).— Take two or more pounds of good sausage-meat. Press it into a buttered dish, and bake in a gentle oven. When done enough, turn it out, and send it to table with a little gravy round it, and more in a tureen. If preferred, the cake may be steamed over boiling water instead of being bakedi Time to bake, one hour or more. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sausage-meat Stuflang.—Take equal weightn ot lean and fat pork. Mince finely, first separately and afterwards together, and mix with them a third of their weight in finely-grated bread-crumbs. Season the mix- ture with pepper, salt, and pounded mace, and bind it together with yolk of egg. When the ingredients are thoroughly blended, the force- meat is ready for use. If liked, a little powdered mace and a small proportion of chopped sage ,can be added to the preparation. Probable cost, one pound of stuffing. Is. Sufficient for a jnoderato-sizcd turkey. Sausage Pie.—Mince separately one pound of loan beef, one pound of sheep's or pig's liver, and half a pound of fat pork. When finely phred, mix the ingredients thoroughly, and add two table-spoonfuls of stale crumb of bread grftted, a teaspoonful of unmixed mustard, a « tea-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and a little pejjper, sfilt, and cayenne. Moi«ten the preparation with two tiilile-H])Oonfula of cold water. Press it into a ljuttejed dish, ky one or two slices of fat bacon on the top, and bake in a gentle oven. Servo hot or cold. Time to bake, about two hours. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Sufficient for five or six pei^ons. Sausage Poison,—It is well known that sausages made or kept under certain unknown conditions are occasionally highly poisonous; and in Germany, where sausages form a staple article of diet, fatal cases of sausage poisoning are by no means rare. The symptoms are slow in appearing: three or four days sometimes elapsing before they manifest themselves. The poison may be described as of the narcotico- irritant character, and is very dangerous. Dr. Taylor in his "Medical Juiisprudence" records the cases of three persons who died from the efi:'ects of liver-sausages, which had been made from an apparently healthy pig, slaughtered only the week before. The inspection threw no light on the cause of death. This case differs from those commonly occurring in Germany, in this respect: that here the sausages were fresh, while the sausages which have proved poisonous in Germany had always been made a long time. Dr. Kemer, a German physician, who has specially studied the subject, believes that the poison is an acid, formed in consequence of a modified process of putrefaction; others regard it as an empyreumatic oil. Sausage Pudding.—Line a moderate- sized pudding-basin with good suet crust; fill it with one pound of fresh pork sausages which have been scalded and have had the skins re- moved, and pour over it a sauce made as fol- lows:—Llince an onion, and fry it with two sage-leaves in butter till the onion begins to turn yellow. Dredge a dessert-spoonful of flour over it, and pour upon it two or three tal spoonfuls of good stock. Stir the sauce o\ct the fire till it boils, season with salt and cayenne, let it cool, and strain it over the sausages. Cover the pudding with the pastry with which the dish was lined. Tie it in a pudding-cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly till the pudding is done enough. Turn it upon a hot dish, and send brown gravy to table with it. Time to boil the pudding, an hour and a half. Probable cost, sausages, Is. per poimd. Sausage Rolls. -Take half a sausage n:t lengthwise for each roll. Enclose the halt m pastry six inches square and an eighth of ^ inch thick Pinch the edges securely, and then bake the roll on a baking sheet in a well-heated oven. They may be serv^ed hot or cold. Or take equal weights of cold dressed chicken and tongue, or cold roast veal and ham. Mince the meat finelv, and season well with salt, cayenne, ' and powdered sweet herbs. The latter may be ' omitted, if liked. Press the mince togetlier, and enclose it in a puff paste, or good pastry that is large enough to contsiin it. Bake in » well-heated oven. These rolls are especially adapted for pic-nic parties. Time to bake, half an liour for fresh meat, fifteen minutes lor cooked meat.