f BAV ( 719 ) BED grtivy round them, and serve very hot. To make the nouilles paste put half a pound of Hour on a paatry-board, make a hole in the centre, break two egga into it, add half an oimce of butter and a pinch of salt, and mix all together to a smooth, firm paste; it is then ready for use. Time to simmer the ravioli, five minutes. Ravioli Soup.—Prepare and poach the ravioli as in the last recipe. Drain them, and put them into a soup tureen. Pour over them two quarts of good strong veal or game stock, add a glassful of madeira, and serve very hot. Send a plateful of grated Parmesan to table with the soup. Time, five minutes to poach the ravioli. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Ray or Maids.—This fish is of the same genus as the skate or thomback. It may be boUed or fried. It should be hung for at least a day before it is dressed, and the wings should be cut into strips, and kept in salt and water for two or three days before they are used. The dressed fish is very good eaten cold with salad sauce. It is at its best from September to February. THK RAT. Ray Soup.—Boil a pound of ray in a quart of fish stock. When it is tender and broken to pieces, strain the liquor through a sieve. Put it back into the saucepan, and let it boil again. Drop into it a spoonful of vermi- celli, and when this is tender draw the saucepan from the fire for a minute, stir into the soup a quarter of a pint of cream which has been' beaten up with the yolk of an egg, and let it simmer a few minutes longer, but on no account let It boil after the egg is added. Heat a l^rench roll m the oven, soak it in a little of the soup until it IS moist throughout, put it into the turoon, pour the soup over it, and servo. The ray is a fish which is very suitable for making soup, as its bones arc delicate, and soon dissolve Time, a few minutes to boil the fish. Probable cost, uncertain, ray being seldom bought • it is however, very inexpensive. Sufficient for fiv.' or SIX persons. Bazor-biU.—This bird, also known under the name of the Black-billed Auk, is very common on the coasts of this country and on all the northern shores of the Atlantic Ocean. Its fiesh is much used in some districts for food, and the eggs, which are about three inches long, are esteemed a delicacy. The razor-bill frequents lofty precipices, from which its eggs are taken by persons who are let down by ropes for the purpose. Reading Sauce.—Take two large earthen jars. Put into one an ounce and a half of bruised shallots and two pints and a half of walnut pickle, set this in a gentle oven, and let it boil until the liquor is reduced to two pints. Put into the other jar a quart of water, three- quarters of a pint of Indian soy, a pounded anchovy, half an ounce of pepper, half an ounce of ginger, and one ounce of mustard-seed, aU bruised; add also half an ounce of cayenne. Set this jar in the oven, and let it boil for an hour. Pour the contents of one jar into the other, stir the mixture weU together, and let it bon for half an hour. Cover closely, and let it stand in a cool place untn the next day. Put into the sauce a quarter of an ounce of dried bay- leaves, and leave it for a week. Strain through a j eUy-bag, put the liquor into small bottles, cork these tightly, and store for use. Time, nine days. Sufficient for two quarts of sauce. Recruits' Pudding.—Pound two oimces of sweet almonds to a smooth paste, and add as much new milk as will make a thick batter. Shred finely a pound of suet, and mix with it a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Add the almond nulk, a pinch of salt, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, the well-whisked yolks of five eggs, the white of one egg, and a table- spoonful of brandy. Tie the mixture in a floured cloth, and boil it, or, if preferred, put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake it until done enough. Time, two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Red Beet.—The roots of the red beet are boUed and sliced, and eaten cold, either alone or in salads; they are also much used as a pickle, and form a most beautiful garnish. Sometimes, after being di-ied in thin slices in an oven they are employed in confectionerj', and di-ied and ground they are occasionally turned to account as " a supplement to coffee." Red Beet, Varieties of.—These, ac- cording to Loudon, are numerous, but the prin- cipal are :—large-rooted; long-rooted; dwarf, one of the best; turnip-rooted, an early variety; small red; Castelnaudari, much estdemed in France, and said to have the flavour of a nut; and green-topped, much grown in Scotland. Redbreast.—This beautiful bird, which enliA'ens the dreariness of winter with its song, when almost all other birds are silent, and whose familiar manners and reliance on the generosity of man have been the cause of his protection throughout Britain from the destroy- ing hand of the epicure, is extensively consumed in France, and considered excellent. Red Cabbage.—In form the red or purple cabbage resembles the white ; it has, however.