■^AIT ( 1026 ; VEA Btirrinf? one way till it befrins to thicken, but it nmtit not boil. Stii- occasionally till it is cold, and servo in a glass dish or in custard cups. Whisk the whites of tho eggs to a firm froth, Jind pile this on tho custard at the moment of serving. Sift a little white sugar upon the custard, and it will be ready for tho table. If liked, essence of vauiUa may be used instead of tho pod. Probable cost, if made Avith milk, Is. to Is. 6d. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of custard. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to make tho custard. Vanilla Custard Pudding.—Flavour a pint of milk by soaking a quarter of a pod of vanilla in it for some time. Boil the milk, and pour it v.'hilst boiling on four eggs which havo been lightly beaten in a basin. Strain the custard, let it cool, and add sugar to taste; three good-sized lumps will be enough. Pour the pudding into a buttered mould. Lay an oiled paper on the top, put it in a stewpan with water to reach half-way up the mould, and steam gently until done enough. Let it stand a few minutes after it is taken up before turn- ing it out. Put it on a dish, garnish with pre- served fruit, and pour dissolved fruit jelly round it. If liked, the pudding may be baked instead of being steamed, and essence of vanilla may be used instead of the pod. Time to set the pudding, half an hour. Probable cost, Is., without the sauce. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vanilla Custard Sauce for Sweet Puddings.—Beat an egg, and stir half a pint of milk into it. Add sugar to taste and six or seven drops of vanilla flavouring. The quantity should be regulated by the strength of the pre- paration. Put the mixture into a saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir one way till it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Serve in a txireen wdth any'kind of dry, boiled pudding. Time, about eight minutes to thicken the custard. Sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 4d. Vanilla Ice Cream.—Pound half a stick of vanUla, and mix with it half a pound of sugar. Rub it through a hair sieve, and add half a pint of milk and the yolks of two eggs. Simmer the mixture over a slow fire for ten minutes, stirring briskly all the time. When cool, add a pint of cream and a small pinch of salt. Freeze and mould in the usual way. Time, ten minutes to simmer the custard. Pro- bable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a quart of ice cream. Vanilla Lozenges.—Mix four ounces of powdered vanilla with an oimcc and a quarter of powdered white sugar. Add as much gum tragacanth as will make a stiff paste. Fonn the mixture into lozenges. Or put half a pound of coarse sugar into a small sugar-boiler with an ounce of water and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Stir tho mixture with a wooden spoon over a gentle lire till it has become liquid and is on the point of simmering. Take it off the fire, stir it a few minutes longer, and drop it upon slightly-oiled baking-sheets. Let the drops get cold, then remove them with the point of a sharp knife. VaniUa Sauce for Sweet Puddings. —Boil a ((uarter of un inch of vaiulla and a table-spoonful of sugar in a quarter of a pint of water for ten minutes. JSIix a dosseil- spoonf ul of arrowroot to a smooth paste with a spoonful of cold water. Strain the boiling syrup upon it, and stir the sauce till it is smooth. Add half a wine-glassful of brandy, u.nd servo. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Time, ten minutes to boil the sauce. Vanilla Souflae.—Take three ounces of di-ied Hour. IMix it to a smooth jjaste with two or three table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and add additional milk to make up the quantity to three-quarters of a pint. Stir in two table- spoonfuls of sugar, a small pinch of salt, and a few drops of vanilla essence. The quantity must be regulated by the strength of the essence. Stir the milk briskly over the fire till it leaves the sides of the pan. Strain it into a bowl, and when it is cool add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat the whites of six eggs to a firm froth, mix them lightly with the batter, and half fill a buttered dish with the mixture. Put it into a moderately-heated oven, and turn it about occasionally, that it may be equally baked. When done enough, sift powdered sugar upon it, and serve at once, or it win be spoUed. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vanilla Sponge Cake.—Cut half a stick of vanilla into small pieces, tie it in muslin, and put it into a saucepan with one gill of water and twelve ounces of refined sugar. Let it simmer to a clear sjTTip, then take out the bag of flavouring, and stir the sjTup into six eggs lightly beaten. Put the basin into a saucepan of boiling water over the fire Draw the pan back and beat the batter briskly and continuously till thick and light. Stir in ofiE the fire half a pound of flour, turn the batter into prepared moulds, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, half an hour or more. Vauxhall Nectar.—This old-fashioned liqueur may be successfully imitated by dis- solving one scruple of flowers of Benjamin (otherwise known as flowers of benzoin, and benzoic acid) in a pint of good rum. The liqueur may be used immediately. Veal.—Veal is best when the animal is from two to three months old. The flesh of the bull calf is the most suitalilc for joints, being of a firmer grain. That of the cow calf is the best for made-dishes. The fillet of the cow calf is generally preferred, because it has the udder. 'J'ho finest calves have the smallest kidneys, and when the veal is good these arc well covered with fat. "Veal, like all yoimg meat, has a tendency to turn very quickly. It is both un- palatable and most unwholesome when it is at all tainted, and it cannot be recovered, as brown meats sometimes are, by the use of charcoal. Tliereforc it ought not to be kept more than two davs in siuumor and four in winter. If eaten quite fresh it is apt to be a little tough. To assist it in keeping, the pipe should be re- moved from the loin as soon as the veal conj( s