SIO ( 874 ) BIO for tea. In goncnil, Iho dr^- and dirty toriguo alwnyB prt'lurs tea to coffoo, and will qiiito decline milk, unloHS with tea. CoH'oe is a bettor restorative than tea, but a greater im- pairor of the digestion. Let the patient's taste decide. You will say that in cases of great thirst the patient's craving decides that it will drink a great deed of tea, and that you cannot help it. But in those cases be sure that the patient requires dilutents for quite other pm-poses than quenching the tliirst; ho wants a great deal of some drink, not only of tea, and the doctor will order what he is to have- barley-water or lemonade, or soda-water and milk, as the case may bo. " It is often recommended to persons about to go through great fatigue, either from the kind of work, or from their being not in a state fit for it, to eat a piece of bread before they go. I wish the recommenders would themselves try the experiment of taking a piece of bread instead of a cup of tea or coffee as a refresher. They would find it very poor comfort. When men have to set out fasting on fatigue duty, when a arses have to go fasting in to their patients, it is a hot restorative they want, and ought to have, before they go, and not a cold bit of bread and butter. If they can take a bit of bread with the hot cup of tea, so much the better, but not instead of it. The fact that there is more noui-ishment in brea.d than in almost anything else has probably induced the mistake. That it is a mistake there is no doubt. '' Englishmen and women who have nr. ier- gcne great fatigue, such as taking a long jour- ney without stopping, or sitting up for several nights in succession, almost always say that they can do it best upon a cup of tea. It is also the best refreshment before going out to a long day's work. " Cocoa is often recommended to the sick instead of tea or coft'ee. But, independently of the fact that English sick verj' generally dis- like cocoa, it has quite a different effect from tea or coffee. It is an oUy, starchy nut, having no restorative power at all, but simply increasing fat; it is pure mockery of the sick, therefore, to call it a substitute for tea. For any refresh- ment it is possessed of, you might just as weU offer them chestnuts instead of tea. " An almost universal error among nurses is in the bulk of the food, and especially the drinks, they offer to their patients. Suppose a patient were ordered four ounces of brandy during the day; how is he to take this if you make it into four pints by diluting it ? The same with tea and beef tea, with arrowroot, milk, &c. You have not increased the nourishment, you have not increased the renovating power of these ai-ticlcs by increasing their bulk—you have very likely diminished both by giving the patient's digestion more to do, and most likely of aU, the patient will leave half of what he has been ordered to take, because he cannot swallow the bulk with which you have been pleased to invest it. It requires very nice observation and care (and meets with hardly any) to determine what will be too thick or strong for the patient to take, while giving him no more than the bulk which he is able to swallcv." Various recipes for Invalid Cookeky will be found in oui- pages under their resijcctive headings; but, for conveuience sake, we have lidded to these remarks of Miss Nightiugalo a collection of recipes drauTi, for tlie most part, from the " Medical Guide" of Dr. Keece and the well-known cookery-book of Mrs. Kimdell :— Apple Water. — Cut two large apples into slices, and pour a quart of boiling water on them, or on roasted apples; strain in two or three hours, and sweeten slightly. Arrowroot Jelly.—Put into a saucepan half a pint of water, a glassful of shc.rry or a spoonful of brandy, gratiid nutmeg, and fine sugar; boU once up, then mix it by degrees into a des- sert-spoonful of arrowroot previously nibl^ed smooth with two spoonfuls of cold water ; then return the whole into the saucepan, stir and boil it three minutes. Arrowroot Ptulding.—Take z table-spoonful of arrowroot and half a pint of milk, a table-spoon- ful of which add cold to the arrowroot, stirring it till it is well mixed, then boil the remainder of the half-pint of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and while it is boiling hot, add it by degrees to the arrowroot, then boil the whole (stirring it all the time) till it becomes thickened, and have ready the yolks and whites of six eggs beaten together, which stir into it. Put all into a buttered basin, and cover with paper. Then steam it for half an hour. A pudding may be made in the same way, and baked in a dish with a light crust round, and flavoured with any approved ingredient. Barley Gruel.—Wash four ounces of pearl- barley, boil it in two quarts of water with a stick of cinnamon till reduced to a quart; strain, and return it to the saucepan with sugar and three-quarters of a pint of port wine. Heat up, and use as wanted. Barley Water.—Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon-peel. This is less apt to nauseate than the pearl barley of the following recipe; but the other is a very pleasant drirdj. Barley Water (another way).—Boil an ounce of pearl barley a few minutes to cleanse, then put on it a quart of water; simmer an hour; when half done put into it a bit of fresh lemon- peel and one bit of sugar. If likely to be too thick, you may put another quarter of a pint of water. Beef, Mutton, and Veal Broth. — Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one poimd of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercorns, into a nice tin sjiucepan with five quarts of water; simmer to three quarts; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of dift'erent kinds of meats are more supporting as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible; Mnd if there be still any remaining, lay a bit oi .dean blot- ting-paper or cap-paper on the brodi \yh'en in the basin, and it will take up eveiy particle. Beef Tea.—in small pieces two pounds weight of fresh lean hoef; add three pints of cold water; when on the eve of boiling, care- fiUly remove the scum; the moment it boils add a pint of cold water; then let it boil up