( 794 ) SAL SAL early spring salad. The soods are sown with | those of mustard {iSitiapis »ii/ra imd Hinapis al/m), and the young plants arc both eaten together under the name of ' mustard and cross.' Kod beet, the Jieta vulgaris of botanists. There are two varieties of this plant used as salad. First, a variety called la Carde, which has a small root and large leaves; the latter are oaten in the same way as lettuce. The other variety is called Betterave, in which the roots are largely developed. The roots are boiled and sliced and eaten with vinegar, oil, pepper, and salt. The radish is the Raphanus liaphanistrum. The roots of this plant are oaten uncooked, and, like the family to which they belong, contain a subacrid oil, which gives them an agreeable flavour. They are less digestible than many other plants eaten as salad. Lamb's lettuce, or corn-salad, is the Valer ianella olitoria. This plant is a native of Great Britain, and is often cidtivated for use as a salad. The leaves for this purpose should be cut young or they will have a disagreeable bitter taste. The common sorrel is the Rumex acetosa. The acid taste of this plant depends on the presence of oxalic acid. It is much used as a salad in France. The common dandelion is the Leontodon Taraxacum. This plant, though very common in England, is not much used as a salad. It has, however, when young, the flavour and properties of lettuce, and is exten- sively employed as a salad on the Continent.'' Salad Herbs, Small.—There are certain plants which are employed, chiefly in the seed leaf, or when very young, for the purpose of procuring salads throughout the year, or at times and in. situations when no others can be had. Some of these are also mixed with the larger salad plants to improve their flavour or wholesome qualities. The sort most in use in this country are mustard, cresses, rape, turnip, radish, white cabbage, cabbage-lettuce, &c. Some of these may be procured at all seasons of the year, and are cut when not over a week or ten days old. Being of a warm relish, if allowed to grow too large, so as to run into the rough leaf, they become of a disagreeably strong hot taste. Mustard is remarkable for the rapidity of its growth, and on this account' is frequently sown in the ground, as a small, salad, together with tress. The seeds strewed on wet flannel, and placed in a warm situation, even by the fireside, frequently shoot out their seed-leaves in a day or two—sometimes even in a few hours—a cir- cumstance which is frequently taken advantage of in long voyag'^s. Ships going to the East Indies used to have boxes placed on the deck ■wherein mustard and cress were sowed for the purpose of getting salad on the voyage; and the number of crops thus raised was surprising. The garden-cress stands at the head of the small-salad plants, and is much cultivated for this purpose. It has a very warm but pleasant flavour. By the aid of a little artificial heat, it may be had fresh all through the winter. The variety known as American cress grows wild in Great Britain on moist or watery groimd. It is aromatic and pungent, but rather bitter. It is sometimes cultivated for winter and early spring salad. It occasionally goes under the name of French cress. The wintei cross is also found wild in this country in walei y spots and slow-running streams. In flavour and use it nmch roHembles the last. The water cress has long been highly es- teemed. Jt is found in great abundance on the edges of running streams, preferring clean water to that which is muddy. Care must be taken to distinguish it from the water-parsnip, which often grows with it, and which is poisonous. Burnet, another small-salad herb, is a peren- nial pknt indigenous to Britain, and found in dry, upknd, calcareous soils. It is occasionally cultivated in gardens. The leaves of the bumct are used in salads; when lightly bruised, they smell like cucumber. They have a somewhat warm taste. Rape, a native of Britain, is sometimes grown in gardens, and its leaves are used for salad in the same way as mustard and cress. Salad. Mixture.—Endeavour to have youi- salad herbs as fresh as possible; if you suspect they are not" morning gathered," they will be much refreshed by lying an hour or two in spring-water; then carefully wash and pick them, and trim off all the worm-eaten, slimy, cankered, dry leaves; and, after washing, let them remain a while in the colander to drain; lastly, swing them gently in a clean napkin. When properly picked and cut, arrange them in the salad dish, mix the sauce in a soup plate, and put it into an ingredient bottle, or pour it down the side of the salad dish, and don't stir it up till the mouths are ready for it. If the herbs be young, fresh gathered, trimmed neatly, and drained dry, and the sauce-maker ponders patiently over the following directions, he cannot fail obtaining the fame of being a very accomplished salad-dresser:—BoU a couple of eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes—the yolks must be quite cold and hard, or they will not incorporate with the ingredients. Kub them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a table-spoonful of water or fine double cream, then add two table-spoonfuls of oil or melted butter; when these are well mixed, add, by degrees, a tea-spoonful of salt or powdered lump sugar, and the same of made mustard; when these are smoothly united, add very gradually three table-spoonfuls of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients tiU thoroughly incorporated with them; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to be eaten. We recommend the eaters to be mindful of the duty of mastication, without the due performance of which all undressed A^egetables are troublesome company for the principal viscera, and some are even dangerously indigestible. Salad Mixture, Quihi.—Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs \^nth the back of a wooden spoon till quite smooth, and beat m drop by drop three dessert-spoonfuls of fine salad oil. Add, just as slowly, six dessert-spoon- fuls of Annegar, four of mushroom ketchup, three of ancho^T essence, four salt-sroonfuls of salt, and four of mixed mustard. A spoontui