< 927 ) STO STO into it until dissolved a tea-spoonful of extract of moat, and it will be ready for use. It may be served as it is, as cleai- soup, or a little macaroni or vermicelli may Le added to it, though they should bo boiled separately, or the soup will not bo clear; or a few vegetables cut as for Julienne soup may be put in {see Vegetables, Dried), or a few fresh tarragon-leaves may be finely shred and thrown in. Probable cost, plain, 3d. Sufficient for thi-ee or four persons. Stock, Rich and Strong.—Take two pounds of the shin of beef and two pounds of knuckle of veal; cut the meat into small pieces, and break up the bones. Butter a saucepan, line it with slices of lean ham or bacon, lay the pieces of meat upon it; add the bones and any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand. An old hen or the carcase of a rabbit or roasted chicken will be valuable additions. Pour in a pint of water, cover the saucepan, and boil it quickly, stirring it frequently till it is reduced to glaze. Let this brown gently or not, as requii'ed, pour in three quarts of cold water, and when this boils add a large onion stuck with two cloves, a few sticks of celery, a large carrot, a young turnip, half a blade of mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, a few pepper- corns, and a little salt. Remove the scum carefully as it rises, and add a spoonful of cold water occasionally to assist it in doing so; simmer the stock gently for four hours; strain it into an earthenware pan, and when it is quite cold, carefully remove the fat from the top. Time to simmer the stock, three to four hours. Stock, Second. — Meat and vegetables boiled a second time with fresh liquor, &c., is " second stock," This stock is stiffer than " first stock," and is used for braizing. It may be boiled down again to make glaze or portable soup, which will be of great use, either to enrich soups or sauces, or to improve the ap- pearance of various joints (see Glaze). If liked, half the original quantity of vegetables and seasoning may be added to the liquor. To make it, boil the stock very gently for live or six hours. Strain it through a hair sieve into an earthenware pan. When it is cold, carefully remove the fat from the top, and pour it off gently, not to disturb the settlings, into a well-tinned saucepan. Keep the sauce- pan uncovered over a brisk fire, skim the liquor when necessary, and boil it quickly till it begins to thicken. Reduce the heat of the fire, and boil the stock gently till it looks like thin treacle. Be very careful that it does not bum, and when it has boiled until a little taken out in a .si)Oon will when cold set into a stiff jolly, ^strain it into small jars, perfectly dried, to the thickness of an inch and a half, and let it remain in a cool place till wanted. If properly made, it will keep six mouths. If, after a few days, it does not appear sufliciently hard, put the jar containing it into a large saucepan of boiling water, and keep tliis water boiling rapidly round it until the glaze has evaporated suffit^if^ntly. It must hot be put into the saucejjan again, as it will be in great danger of burning or of acquiring an unpleaHant flavour. Time, two days to make the glaze. Stock, Superior Clear Brown, for Soups and Sauces, made from Fresh Meat.—Take three pounds and a half of the shin of beef or knuckle of veal and a quarter of a pound of lean ham. Cut the meat into pieces the size of an egg, and break the bones into small pieces. Butter the bottom of the stewpan, lay in it the ham, then the veal, and add the bones and any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand. Pour in aa much water as will cover the meat. Cover the pan, put it on a brisk fire, and boil its contents quickly, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon till the bottom of the pan is covered with a thick white glaze. Tkrow some cinders on the fire to lower the temperatm-e, and let the pan remain on it until the glaze becomes a bright brown colour without being at all burnt. Poiir in four quarts of cold stock or water, bring the Liquor to the point of boiling, then di-aw it to the side, and simmer gently, skim- ming with scrupulous care for two hours if veal is used, and for four hom-s if beef is used. Strain through a fine sieve into an earthenware pan, and when the stock is cold remove the grease. If flavouring is wanted, a turnip, a carrot, two onions, each with one clove stuck in it, half a leek, a few sticks of celery, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thjTne, may be stewed in the liquor. Add pepper and salt as required; the quantity of salt needed will dep6nd upon the quality of the ham. Probable cost, 3s. Stock, To Keep Good.—In cold weather stock will keep for several days. In hot weather it should be boiled every day. It should always be poured into an earthenware bowl, and when nearly cold, put into a cool larder. It should on no account be allowed to remain in the stewpan all night. Stock, Wliit6> ^or White Soups and Sauces.—Take three pounds of the knuckle of veal and a qi^arter of a pound of lean ham. Cut the meat into small pieces, break up the bones, and add any trimmings of meat or poultry that may be at hand, with a little pepper and a small pinch of salt. The carcase of a fowl or rabbit wUl be a valuable ad/^tion. Put the meat into the stewpan, and poulf tipon it four quarts of cold water. Bring the liquor to the boil, di-aw it to the side, slrim carefully, and let it simmer gently for three hours. Strain it into an earthenware pan tUl wanted. If liked, a carrot, a turnip, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a amaU piece of mace may be added. Stock with Fried Bread.—Cut a slice of stale crumb of bread into dice; moisten these with stock, put a slice of dripping on them, and fry over a slow fire tiU they are brown and crisp. Lay them in a dish, and place upon them one or two slii-ca of the cnimb of bread which have been soaked in stock and drained. Sei-ve nicely-flavoured stock in a tureen with the bread thus prepared. This dish is specially suited for children and in- valids. Stone Cream.—Put a little apricot, plum, or cherry jam into a glass dish. Grate upon it the rind of a lemon, and add the straiTiod iuire. Pour over it as much liquid blancniaujie uwuly