PEA " PEA ( 629 ) well with the back of a wooden spoon, over a fine sieve, till the green pulp which covers the shells has passed through the sieve, leaving the skins of the shells clean. Put an onion into a stewpan, with about two quarts of water. When the liquid boUs quickly, add the peas, two lettuce hearts finely shred, half a tea- spoonful of pepper, a sprig or two of mint or of tiu-ragon, if eiiier are liked, and a little more salt if required. Boil quickly tUl the peas are tender, then press the vegetables through a fine sieve, boU up the pulp with the liquid, and thicken lightly with arrowroot. If preferred, stock may be used instead of part of the water, and the peas may be gently fried in butter, before being put into the soup. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 8d. if made with water. SuflBcient for seven or eight persons. Peas, Green, Soup, without Meat, Economical and Excellent.—Take a quart of gi'oen peas fully grown, but neither yellow nor worm-eaten, and put them into a saucepan, with thi-ee pints of boiling water, a tea-spoonful of salt, an ounce of butter, two or three sprigs of mint, a dozen spring onions, and a handful of fresh parsley, or a dozen leaves of spinach. Boil until the peas are tender, then strain ofp the liquor and preserve it. Pound the peas in a mortar, add to them the liquid in which ■ the peas were boiled, and then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Bring the soup to the point of boiling, stir into it another ounce of butter, a dessert- spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat, a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, pepper, and a spoonful of arrowroot moistened with water. Serve as hot as possible. Time, half an hour to boil the peas. Probable cost, lOd. Suffi- cient for six or seven persons. Peas, Green, Stewed.—Shell a peck of young peas, put them into a bowl with plenty of cold water and two ounces of butter, work them well with the fingers to make the peas stick together, and then drain them in a colander. Put the peas into a stewpan, with half a dozen young onions, two cabbage-lettuces cut into small pieces, a handful of parsley, a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, and a little salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew gently over a slow fire for about half an hour. If the lettuces and peas do not yield sufficient water a table-spoonful may be added, but if they are simmered gently this will in aU probability be unnecessary, bhake the stewpan occasionally, that all may be equally cooked. Mix two ounces of butter smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and when the peas are tender put the mixture into the saucepan with them. Shake them over the fire for three or four minutes until the butter is melted, then turn them upon a hot dish, and serve immediately. If preferred, an egg beaten up with a table-spc onful of water may be substituted for the butter. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peas, Green, Stewed with Ham and Lettuces.—Shell a pock of young gi-een peas and prepare them according to the directions given in the last recipe. Put them into a stew- pan, with the hearts of two cabbage-lettuces finely shi-ed, a large onion cut into thin slices, a handful of parsley, and half a pound of ham or bacon cut into small pieces. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents stew until the peas are tender. If necessary add a table- spoonful of water or stock. Shake the sauce- pan over the fire occasionally to prevent burn- ing. When the peas are cooked enough take out the ham and onion, put in two ounces of butter mixed smoothly with a dessert-spoonful of flour and a table-spoonful of cream. A sprig or two of mint may be stewed with the peas if the flavoiir be Uked. Simmer gently for four minutes, and serve as hot as possible. Time, about half an hour to stew the peas. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Peas, Green, with Cream Sauce.— Boil a quart of young freshly-gathered peas in slightly salted water until they are tender, then drain them in a colander. Melt two ounces of fresh butter over the fire, mix smoothly with it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and add veiy gradu- ally a cupful of thick cream, or failing this, new milk. When the sauce boils put in the peas, stir them until they are quite hot, and serve immediately. Time, from fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil the peas. Probable cost, 8d. per peck when in full season. Suffi- cient for four or five persons. Peas, Nutritive Properties of.— Peas are so rich in flesh-forming matter, that they are to be avoided as a simple article oi diet; they are most wholesome when mixed with a less nutritive food, such as the potato. The flesh-former in peas is legumin, which closely resembles casein. Green peas contain more sugar and less casein than dried peas. One hundred parts of peas, air dried, is stated to contain:— Water Casein Starch Sugar Gum Fat . Woody fibre Mineral matter Or, Water .... Flesh and force producers Force producers Mineral matter Peas Porridge.—Soak a pint of split peas for a night in cold water, and take away those that float. Slice two moderate-sized Spanish onions and fry them in a little hot fat, with two or three sticks of celery cut into two- inch lengths. Drain them and put them into a large saucepan, with a bunch of savoury herbs, two anchovies, or failing these half a red herring, a crust of bread toasted on both sides, and three quarts of cold water. BoU gently until the liquid is strongly impregnated with the flavour of the herbs, &c. Skim and strain it, and return it to the saucepan with the soaked peas and a pound of raw potatoes coarsely grated. Simmer again until the peas are quite soft. Press them through a hair sieve, and 14-1 23-4 37-0 2-0 90 20 100 2-5 14-1 23-4 600 2-5