WAL ( 1101 ) WAS for six days; then drain them, and pour fresh brine upon them. Leave them from three to six days longer, drain in a colander, and' put them in the sun in a single layer, on a large dish covered with coarse sackcloth. They will turn black in a few hours. Tm-n them over once or twice, handling them gently. Boil as much vinegar as will entirely cover the walnuts, with spices, in the proportion of two ounces of whole ginger bruised, two ounces of black pepper, four blades of mace, two ounces of mustard seed, eight cloves stuck into four shallots or small onions, and a tea-spoonful of salt, to half a gallon of vinegar. A dessert-spoonful of scraped horseradish and one or two capsicums are some- times added, but they destroy the flavour of the pickle. Boil the vinegar for ten minutes, put the walnuts into unglazed jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and when the vinegar is cool pour it upon them, and divide the spices equally amongst the bottles. When cold, tie them over with moistened bladder or with strong brown paper. As the walnuts soak up the vinegar, boil a little additional ■s'inegar without spices, and pour it cold upon them. They must be kept entirely covered with the vinegar. They will be ready for use in three months, but will improve with keeping. If wanted for speedy use, pierce each one throughout both ways with a needle, leave them in the brine fully twelve days, and pour the vinegar upon them boiling hot. Time, about a fortnight to make the pickle. Probable cost, walnuts, Is. 6d. to 28. per 100. Walnuts (to freshen old nuts for dessert). —Put the nuts into an earthen pan, and pour over them as much cold water slightly salted as will cover them. Leave them until the next day, and rub them dry before using them. Walnuts, To Preserve.—Fill an earthen pot with them, and cover them with clay an inch thick. At Christmas-time they will be found as fresh as when first gathered. Another way is to put the walnuts into a common earthen- ware jar with an earthenware lid, and bury the jar in the earth about a foot deep in a place not too wet or too diy. A third way is as follows:—Gather the walnuts on a dry day, and directly the walnuts are taken out of the rind, put them into large flower-pots holding two pecks (any pans, however, will do as well), and when nearly full cover the pots two inches thick with sawdust. Place the pots on the floor in a wine-cellar. Washington Cake.—Put three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a bowl, and beat it to cream. Add gradually a pound of sugar, four well-beaten eggs, a tea-cupful of milk, half a nutmeg grated, half a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, three table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a pound and three-quarters of flour; flour a pound of dried currants, and stir them in also: they may be omitted. Beat the mixture briskly for a quarter of an hour. Dissolve a tea-spoonful of saleratus in a little hot water, and stir it into the mixture. Line the sides and bottom of the pan with buttered paper, pour in the cake, and bake in a moderate oven. AVTien a skowcr which has been tlirust into it comes out clear and dry it is done enough. Washington Cakes, Breakfast.—Rub two ounces of butter into a pound and a half of flour; add a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and a pint of milk. Beat the nuxture thoroughly. Put it into buttered pans an inch deep, and bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. Time to bake the cakes, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. for this quantity. Wasps' Nest Cakes.—Beat up six ounces of fresh butter, one egg, and three yolks. Add two spoonfuls of yeast, three spoonfuls of milk, and half a pound of flour. Make the mixture into a paste, roll it out thin, cut it into strips twelve fiigers long, and three broad. Strew thickly with currants, chopped almonds, sugar, and cinnamon; roll the strips up, butter a tin, and bake slowly. Strew with sugar, and serve. Wassail Bowl.—The wassail bowl used in ancient days to be served specially on Christ- mas Eve. It was brought into the banqueting hall with songs and carols, and crowned with garlands. To make it, grate half a nutmeg, and put it into a saucepan with one clove, a quarter of an ounce of grated ginger, half a small blade of mace, an inch of stick cinnamon, and two or three coriander and cardamom- seeds. Pour upon these ingredients a tea- cupful of cold water, and let them boil. Then add two bottles of white wine, not sweet, and three-quarters of a pound of refined sugar. Pour the mixture into a large saucepan, and set it on the fire. Break the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs into the wassail bowl. "WTien the wine is warm, mix a tea-cupful of it in a bowl with the eggs; when it is a Little warmer, add another tea-cupful, and repeat until five tea-cupfuls have been used. Let the wine boil, and pour it upon the eggs, stirring briskly all the time to froth it. Core, but do not pare, six apples; fiU the cavity with sugar, roast them, and throw them into the bowl. Serve very hot. Though sherry or madeira ought properly to be used, good raisin wine will make an excellent wassail, especially if a tumblerful of brandy be added to it. Wassail Bowl (another way).—Mix half an ounce of grated ginger, half a grated nutmeg, and a pinch of powdered cinnamon with half a pound of Demerara sugar. Put it into a sauce- pan with a pint of ale, and let it boU ; then stir in two additional pints of ale, half a bottle of sherry, madeira, or raisin wine, and a large lump of sugar which has been rubbed upon a fresh lemon till the yellow part is taken off. Make the wine very hot, but do not allow it to boil; put it into the bowl. Throw into it half a dozen apples roasted as in the last recipe, and half a small lemon cut into slices and freed entirely from the white pith. Serve very hot. Wassail Bowl (another way).—The fol- lowmg IS an old recipe for making the wassail bowl:—Simmer a small quantity of the follow- ing spices in a tea-cupful of water, viz., carda- moms, cloves, nutmeg, mace, ginger, cinnamon, and coriander. When done, put the spice to