POT POT ( 633 ) or on a move, to clear them from fat, and servo very hot. The potatoes may be either put on a separate dish or placed roimd the joint they ai-e to accompany. Time to boil the potatoes, about a quarter of an hour; t<.) brown them, one hour or more. Probable cost of potatoes, Id. or IJd. per pound. Allow two or three for each person. Potatoes, Casserole of {see Casserole of Potatoes). Potatoes, Choosing of.—There are so many sorts and sizes of potatoes, and tastes differ so much with regard to them, that it is scarcely possible to give a general rule as to choosing them. It is best to buy them with the mould hanging about them, as this shows that they are freshly dug, and this mould should not be removed until they are about to be used. YeUow-looking potatoes are the best, and reddish-coloured ones aie better than white. Potatoes are more likely to be good when they are of a moderate size and fi-ee from blemish than when they are very large. Potatoes, Cold, Fried in Slices.— Cut up half a dozen firm boiled potatoes in slices a quarter of an inch thick. Put these into a saucepan with two oimces of fresh butter, and shake them over the fire Tintil they are lightly browned. Sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a tea-spoonful of finely-minced onion, and the juice of half a small lemon. A tea- spoonful of good brown gravy may be added or not. Serve very hot. Time, ten minutes to fry the pot<itoes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Potatoes, Cold, to Re-dress.—When potatoes are left after being served, they may be sent to table again in two or three ways. They may be mixed wdth cabbages, and made into colcannon {see Colcannon), or they may be made into a salad {see Potato Salad), or they may be warmed with cream {see Potatoes a la Ci ■eme and Sliced with Parmesan), or they may be sliced and fried (see Potatoes, Cold, Fried in Slices), or they may be more simply fried, as follows:—Melt a piece of clean dripping in a frying-pan, slice the potatoes into this, season with pepper and salt, and keep stirring them about until they are quite hot. Serve immediately. Or beat up cold potatoes till they are quite free from lumps. With one pound of the pulp mix two tablo- spoonfuls of flour, a little pepper and salt, an ounce of butter, and as 'much milk as wiU moisten the beat potatoes. Press them into a plain mould, and bake in a moderate oven until they are nicely browned. Serve very hot. Or take the remains of maahed potatoes as soon as they come from the table. Press them lightly into a small mould, and leave them until the next day. Half an hour before they are wanted, turn them out, cut them into 8lices"^haLf an inch thick, and brown them in a baking-tin in the oven. Potatoes en Salade.—Boil, peel, and Huce potatoes, and season them with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and fine herbs, either sliced gherkins, beet-root, or capers. Potatoes, rish Soup with {see Fish Soup with Potatoes). Potatoes, Forced (a French recipe).— Take two large kidney potatoes, wash and peel them, cut them in half lengthwise; scoop out the inside carefully with a spoon, leaving the outer part about the thickness of a penny-piece. Take two large roasted potatoes, two shallots chopped fine, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little piece of fat bacon, a pinch of parsley and chives chopped fine; pound all with pepper and salt, form into a paste, butter the insides of the potato-sheUs, and fill them with this paste, in which let the upper part be convex ; butter a baking-tin with fresh butter, put your potatoes on it, and bake them in a moderate oven; in half an hour, if the upper and under pai-ts are browned, serve. Potatoes for Pilgrims (a Trappist recipe).—Boil six or eight potatoes, and cut them in slices. Make a little frying liatter {see Frying Batter), and dip in it half a dozen onions thinly sliced; fry these in hot fat, and when they are browned, put the potatoes into the pan with them. Pour over them as much milk as will barely cover them. Sprinkle powdered sugar upon them, let them stew gently a short time, and serve very hot. Time to stew, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potatoes Fried.—French kidney potatoes are the best for this purpose. Wash and peel some potatoes, and cut them from the breadth (not the length) in slices as thin as a shilling. As they are sliced throw them into cold water, and keep them there until wanted. When they are to be dressed, dry them carefully in a nap- kin, and throw them—a few at a time—into as much boiling fat as will cover them entirely. The fat may be known to be boiling when it ceases to hiss, and is still. Move the potatoes about in the fat that they may be equally cooked, and when they are brightly browned on both sides and crisp, put them on a cloth or on brown paper before the fire to drain' the grease from them, sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve very hot. Fried potatoes are good with steaks or chops, or may be even served by themselves as a breakfast dish. Cold boiled potatoes may be sHced and fried in the same way, but the slices should be cut a quarter of an inch thick. Time to fry, about eight minutes. _ The best and easiest way of frying potatoes is to put them a few at a time into a frying basket and fry in boiling fat. Potatoes, Fried (another way).—Cut the potatoes into slices about the thickness of a shilling, then fry them in clarified dripping. If you have any goose dripping, it will do better. When the potatoes are fried a fine brown colour and crisp, drain all the grease on a towel, and serve them quite hot on a napkin, or in a deep dish; they cannot be dished nicely in any other way. Do not forget to sprinkle them over with a little pounded salt. Potatoes, Fried (another way).—Take a sufficient number of potatoes, and cut them in thin slicea. Wash well and drj', then put them