PER ( 636 ) the gentle eddies about flood-gates and similar places. When full-grown they are large fish : one weighing a pound is a good fish, and one of three pounds is thought very large; but they have been found weighing even eight or nine pounds. The flesh is white, firm, of a good flavour, and easily digested. Perch are so tenacious of life that they may be carried sixty miles in straw, and yet survive the journey. They are best crimped the moment they are taken out of the water. The pecu- liarity about the flesh of the perch is that it is very difficult to scale, so much so that some cooks boil the fish first and scale it after- wards. If this is not done, it will be found an assistance to plunge it for a minute into boiling water, and then scale it. Perch is in season from the latter end of May till the THE PEBCH. beginning of I'ebruary. When fresh, the body has a bright shining appearance, and the gills are rosy red. l erch, like all fresh-water fish, should be used as soon as possible after they are caught. Perch la Maitre d'Hotel).—Put as much cold water as will cover the fish into a sauce- pan, with half a dozen chives, a handful of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Put it on the fire, and bring it to a boil. Wash the fish in lukewarm water to free it from the slime, empty it, remove the gills and the fins, and scrape it carefully. Plunge it into the boiling water, and when done enough, which will be when the flesh gives way on being pressed with the finger, drain and dish it on a folded napkin, garnish mth curled parsley, and send a sauce, made as follows, to table in a tureen:—Mix two ounces of fresh butter smoothly with one ounce of flour. Add a quarter of a pint of milk, a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Stir the mixtvire over the flre without ceasing until it is on the point of boiling. Pour it into a tureen, add to it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and serve very hot. Time to boil the fish, according to the size : small fish, ten minutes ; large, half an hour. Probable cost uncertain, perch being seldom offered for s,'ilc. Sufficient, a moderate- sized perch for each person. Perch, Boiled—Wash the fish in Inko- wann water to take off the slime, scale it care- fully, empty it, take out the gills, cut off the fins, phicc the fish in boiling salted water, and keep it boiling until it is done enough. In ordi i to a.scortain when tliis point is reached. press the fish with the fingers; if it gives way to the touch it is done. Take it up, drain it, and serve on a hot dish. Garnish with parsley, and send melted butter, parsley sauce, or Dutch sauce, to table in a tureen. Time, about a quarter of an hour for a moderate-sized fish. Probable cost uncertain, perch being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for one person. Perch, Boiled (another way). — Clean them carefully and put them in a fish-kettle with as much cold spring-water as will cover them, adding a handful of salt. Set them on a quick fire till they boil. When they boil, set them on one side to boil gently for about ten minutes, according to their size. Perch, Fried.—Wash, scale, and clean the fish carefully, wipe them dry, and flour them Lightly aU over; then rub off the flour, dip them into beaten egg, and afterwards into finely-grated bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of boiling fat, until they are nicely browned. Drain them for a few minutes on an inverted sieve, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Send shrimp sauce, anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter, to table in a tureen. Time to fry, according to their size. Probable cost, uncertain, perch being seldom offered for S4.1e. Sufficient, four or five for a dish. Perch, Pried, with Herbs.—Take two moderate-sized perch. Wash, empty, and scale them carefully, wipe them dry, and lay them on a dish. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and pour on them six table-spoonfuls of oil. Let them soak for half an hour, and turn them once during that time. Drain them well, and cover them thickly with finely-grated bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and flavoured with a powdered clove, or a little grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Fry them in boiling fat till the fish are brightly browned, serve on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter, parsley sauce, or piquant sauce to table in a tureen. Time to frr, ten minutes or more, according to size. Sufficient for two persons. Perch, Potted.—Take ten or twelve moderate-sized perch. Empty them, take out the gills, skin them, and cut off the heads, tails, and fins. Put them into a pie-dish that will only just hold them when they are closely packed, sprinkle a little salt over them, and lay on them a muslin bag containing the following ingredients, which have been crushed to powder: —eight peppercorns, two chillies, four allspice, half an inch of ginger, a bay-leaf, and a laurel- leaf. Put ten ounces of fresh butter, out mto slices, upon the fish, cover it closely, and bake in a gentle oven. When done, lift out the bag, and keep the fish in a cool place until wanted. SerA-e cold. Time to bake, two hours. Pro- bable cost uncertain, perch being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Perch, stewed. — Take three or four moderate-sized perch. Wash, scale, and empty them, and take out the gills, put them into a stewpan, and barely cover them M'ith woalv