PEA ( 630 ) PEA whilst pressing keep pouring a little liquid upon thoni to soften thcua. Return the por- ridge to the saucepun; und if it is not thick enough add to it a lump of butter mixed amoothly with a little flour. Season with pepper and salt. Cut up half a dozen leeks into two-inch lengths, boil them in the soup, and when they are tender it is ready for serving. Time, three hours or more. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Peas Pudding (Dr. Kitchener's recipe). —" Put a quart of split peas into a clean cloth; do not tie them up too close, but leave a little room for them to swell; put them on to boil in cold water slowly till they are tender; if they are good peas they will be boiled enough in about two hours and a half; rub them thi-ough a sieve into a deep dish, adding to them an egg or two, an ounce of butter, and some pepper and salt; beat them well together for about ten minutes, when these ingredients are well incorporated together; then flour the cloth well, put the pudding in, tie it up as tight as possible, and boil it an hour longer. It is as good with boiled beef as it is with boiled pork; and why not with roasted pork ? This is a very good accompaniment to cold pork or cold beef." To increase the bulk and diminish the expense of this pudding, the economical housekeeper who has a large family to feed may add to the above ingredients two pounds of potatoes that have been boiled and well mashed. To many this mixtm-e is more agreeable than peas pudding alone. Peas Pudding (another way). — Soak a pint of split peas over night, and remove aU that are not quite good. The follow- ing morning drain them, tie them in a thick cloth, leave room for swelling, and put them into a saucepan with plenty of soft cold water. If soft water cannot be ob- tained half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda should be stirred into that in which the peas are boiled. Boil until the peas are tender, then press them through a colander, stir an ounce of butter into the pulp, with a little pepper and salt, and, if liked, two weU-beaten eggs. Beat the mixture thoroughly, tie it tightly in a cloth, and boil again for one hour. If the eggs are omitted the pudding will have to be served in a shape, as the eggs bind it together. If the peas are not soft at the end of two hours and a half they are of in- ferior quality and cannot be made soft. One hour's boiling will be found sufficient for superior peas. Time, altogether, to boil, three hours and a half. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Peas Pudding, Superlative. —Soak and boil a pint of peas according to the direc- tions given above, press them through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, and beat thoroughly for eight or ten minutes, first adding three weU-beaten eggs, two ounces of clarified butter, and a table-spoonful of thick cream. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, which it should quite fill, cover with a floured cloth, plunge the mould into boiling water, and let the pudding boil quickly till done enough. Turn it out before serving, and send melted butter to table with it. Time, four hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Peas, Puree of {»ee Peas, Green, Puree of). Peas Soup.—Peas soup may be made from dried peas either whole or split: the latter are to bo profoiTed. Soak a quart of peas over night. The next day wash and drain them, and put them into a large sauce- pan, with six ounces of lean ham, or if it is at hand, the knuckle-bone of a ham, three sliced carrots, two onions, and three or four sticks of celery cut into small jjieces. Pour over these three quarts of the liquor in which pork, beef, or mutton has been boiled. Sim- mer gently until the peas are reduced to pulp, stirring frequently, then rub the whole through a hair sieve, and put the soup back into the stewpan. Let it boU, and skim it carefully. Add pepper and salt if necessary, stir in an oimce of butter, and serve as hot as possible. Send powdered mint or powdered sage to table on a separate dish. A table-spoonful of curry powder wiU greatly improve the soup. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 9d. per quart. Suf- ficient for eight or nine persons. Peas Soup (another way).—When no stock is at hand procm-e two pennyworth of fresh bones the day before the soup is wanted. Wash them well, trim them, and put them into a saucepan with two quarts of cold water, two carrots, three onions, one turnip, four or five sticks of celery, eight peppercorns, half a tea- spoonful of dried mint, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a table-spoonful of moist sugar. Biing the Liquid to a boil, skim carefully, then draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for four or five hours. Soak a pint of spUt peas over night. The next day wash and boil them gently in a quart of water until tbey are reduced to a pulp. Be careful to stii fre- quently, or the peas may burn to the bottom. Strain the stock and mix it with the peas. Boil all together until the peas are well mixed with the soup, and add two ounces of butter which have been smoothly mixed with tliree dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, haK a tea-spoonful of unmixed mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. Boil for half im hour, then rub the soup through a hair sieve, boil again, and serve immediately. Send toasted sippets and powdered dried mint to table on sepamte dishes. Time, from an hour and a half to three hours to boil the peas; half an hour to boil the soup. If the water used in making peas soup has been previously used in cooking animal or vegetable food, the soup will thereby be greatly improved. Probable cost. Is. Suffi- cient for six or eight persons. Peas Soup (another waj-V—Cut two ounces of lean ham or bacon into aico, and fry them with a shced onion in a little dripping imtil they are lightly b^o^vned. Put with them one turnip, two carrots, three or four sticks of celery, and one leek, all cut into small pieces, and stir the whole of the above ingredients over the fire for ten minutes more. Pour over them three quarts of water, boil, and add a pint of