( 768 ) BOL thorn in a brisk ovon for about twenty minutos, ami, when drawn, the rolls are to bo rasped. Rolls, French (another way).—(See also French Kolls. Rolls, Fruit.—Dissolve an ounce and a half of butter and half a tea-spoonful of salt in a pint of boiling milk, and half an ounce of yeast in a table-spoonful of warm water. When the milk is nearly cold, mi.\ with it an egg, add the yeast, and throo-quartors of a pound of flour. Cover it, and put it in a warm place to rise. When light, knead in another half a pound of flour, and let it rise again. Make the pastry into rings by roUing it out in pieces half an inch thick and half an inch wide. Pinch the ends together, Liy the rings on buttered pans, let them rise before the fire for a few minutes, prick them again, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, twelve to fifteen minutes. These rolls are delicious served with stewed fruit and cream. Rolls, Geneva.—No. l. RuB two ounces of butter into a pound of flour till it is as fine as oatmeal; add a pinch of salt, a dessert- spoonful of strong yeast, and as much milk as win make a stifi: dough. This will be about half a pint. Let it rise for an hour, then work in with it two eggs which have been beaten up with as much hot milk as will make them new-milk-warm; knead the dough till it is soft and light. Let it rise half an hour longer, form into it small rolls, and bake these in a quick oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. No. 2. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter and a tea-spoonful of salt in a pint of hot milk. Stir in a pound of flour, and when the batter is lukewarm add a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Put the dough in a warm place, and let it rise till light. This will be in three or four hours. Work in another half a pound of flour, and let the dough rise again for an hour or two. Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of soda in a table-spoonful of hot water, knead this into the dough, and form it into small rolls three inches long and one wide. Put these side by side in buttered baking-pans, let them rise before the fire for five or six minutes, prick them, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen or twenty minutes. Rolls, Ginger.—Take two ounces of good powdered ginger and a little salt, and mix these ingredients well with two pounds of flour. Make the preparation into a firm but perfectly light dough with German or brewer's yeast in the usual way. Divide into six or eight small loaves, and bake. Rolls, Hot.—When hot rolls are sent in from the baker's for breakfast, they should be put into the oven as soon as thoy arrive, because it is seldom well heated in the early morning, and rolls are worth nothiiig when they are half cold. Two minutes before they are to be served, take them out, divide them into three lengthwise, and put some thin slices of good butter between the rolls; press them together, and return them to the oven for one minute. Take them out, spread the butter, divide the rolls into halves, place them on a hot clean dish, and servo immediately. Pro- bable coat. Id. each. Rolls (made from nKcn dough).—No 1 Take a lump of the dough, divide it into si'naii balls the size of an omnge, put these into patty-pans, and set thorn before the fire for ten imnutes to rise. Put them into the oven, and bake them till done enough. When nearlv cold grate off the outer crust. Time to bake fifteen to twenty minutes. No. 2. Take a piece of dough the size of a small loaf. Work into it a slice of butter, lard, or sweet dripping and one egg. Knead it well, and make it into rolls three inches long and an inch thick. Lay these side by side in a buttered dish, and put them into a quick oven. Do not open the oven-door for a quarter of an hour, then brush the tops of the rolls over with milk, bake them five minutes longer and they will be done enough. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Rolls, Meat.—Mince some under-dressed meat—beef, veal, chicken, or turkey—and pound it smoothly with a third of its weight in fresh butter and a liberal seasoning of pepper and salt. Make some good forcemeat, and form it into small roUs about three inches long and half an inch thick. Moisten these with water, and cover with one or two layers of the pounded meat. Fold them in piiff paste, fasten the ends securely, and bake in a well-heated oven. Serve them piled on a neatlj'-folded napkin. The forcemeat may be made as follows : — Mix a quarter of a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind with four otmces of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Add salt and pepper, a pinch of grated nut- meg, and a quarter of an ounce of mixed sweet herbs finely powdered. Break into the mix- ture two ounces of sweet butter, moisten with the yolk of an egg, and work hghtly vrith the fingers till it is well mixed. Time to bake the roUs, twenty minutes. Rolls, Meat (another way).—Pound the meat as above. Form it into rolls, and insert in the centre of each a spoonful of mush- rooms which have been stewed in butter till tender and then drained. Fold the rolls in puff paste, and bake in a well-heated oven until the pastry is done enough. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Rolls, Milk (to be eaten either hot or cold).—Put a pound of fine flour into a bowl. Scoop a hole out of the centre, and sprinkle round the edge a tea-spoonful of salt and two tea-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Dissolve two ounces of butter in half a pint of tepid milk, add an ounce of German yeast, and work tht whole gradually to a stiff paste, adding ;i little more flour if necessarj-. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and put it on the hearth to rise. When it is light, which will be in about three- quarters of an hour, divide it into small balls the size of an orange, rub these between the hands into rolls, brush over with milk or with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Rolls, Milk (anotherway).—iSee Milk Rolls. Rolls, Oyster.—Take two or three square French rolls, cut a slice off the top, and scoop out the greater part of the crumb. Half fill the hollows with finely-minced oysters seasont^d