SAL SAIT ( 823 ) onlv as saliibritv is concerned. After six months, ordinary' pork, if stiU kept in salt, o-enerally begins to be too salt and to acquire a new flavour not very agreeable, in which that of a bloated herring is sometimes distmguish- *^It is a curious fact, and one which it is useful to be acquainted Avith, that the saltness of meat which has been preserved in brine increases even after the meat has been removed from the brine. Thus if, in winter, a large piece of fresh beef be cut into equal parts of an equal quality, and both are immersed during the same length of time in the same brine, containing more salt than the water can hold dissolved—suppose for fourteen days—one of them, when dressed, will prove sufficiently salt to please many palates. Let the other, taken out of the brine at the same time, be set aside for six weeks, and it will be found on being duly boiled that it has grown by far more salt than the former, although, apparently, they were both exposed to the action of the salt during the same length of time. It should always be borne in mind that the true art of preserving meat by salting is to do so with the smallest quantity of salt that can be made to serve the purpose. Salzgurden.—This is a German pickle made of sour cucumbers. The cucumbers should be chosen half grown, smooth, and seedless. Let them lie in water for twelve hours, then wipe them dry. Get an unglazed earthenware crock, or a perfectly clean small barrel, and lay at the bottom of it a layer of vine- leaves, some cherry-leaves, and two or three walnut-leaves. On the top of these place cucumbers, packing them close, with a leaf or two between them; cover the layer with wild cherry-leaves. Lay down another layer of cucumber, with here and there a sprig of green dill, and half a walnut-leaf. On these place another layer of vine and cherry-leaves, and proceed in this way till the crock or barrel is. full. Prepare a weak brine : say, in the pro- portion of a handful of salt to a gallon of water. Pour this over the cucumbers till all are quite covered. Put on a cover, with a weight on the top, and set the vessel in a warm place for a few days. When bubbles begin to appear on the brine, remove it to a cool and shady situation In three or four weeks the salzgurden will be ready for eating. Some makers of salzgurden add to the brine a cupful of vinegar, or a few spoonfuls of tartaric acid, and sprinkle a few cloves or allspice here and there, with a bay- leaf and some sliced horseradish. Samphire.—The samphire {Crithnmm ma- ritimum) has a poetical interest, and is one of the plants of Shakespeare. The " dangerous trade" of the samphire-gatherer arises from its growing on the sides of steep cliffs; and one of the most ornamental features of the white cliffs of Albion is the dark green patches which this plant produces where it grows. It is gathered for the sake of the pleasant oil which is diffused throughout the pknt, and which renders it an agreeable addition to our food, especially when it is used in the form of pickle. Samphire is jfceraUy gathered where it grows wild, but is sometimes very successfully cultivated m beds of sand, rich earth, and rubbish, occasionally sprinkled with a Httle salt. Samphire is about as wholesome as pickles generally. Samphire, Pickled.—True samphire is now a rare plant. That which ordinarily passes for it is a glasswort common enough in salt marshes and on low muddy shores not often covered by the tide. This glasswort is not aromatic, but is full of soda; and its English name is derived from its having at one time been employed in the manufacture of glass. In country places it is sometimes boiled and eaten as a vegetable, from faith in its healing virtues. To pickle samphire, divide it into sprigs, linse these well, and let them drain in the sun until the leaves begin to droop. Put them into jars, and pour over them hot vinegar slightly salted. Spice must not be introduced, or it will over- power the natural aromatic flavour of the samphire. Glasswort may be pickled in the same way, but for it the vinegar should be stronglj'' flavoured with spice. Samphire, Pickled (another way).—The samphire grows on the rocks all round the coast of Britain. For pickling it must be gathered when green. Soak it for two days in a brine of salt and water. Then put it in a stone jar with some peppercorns and a little allspice. Cover with vinegar, and put the jar in an oven, where it must be well attended to. It must boil only until it is green and crisp ; if it is allowed to become soft it is spoiled. When quite cold, cork and bladder the jar, and put it by for use. Sandboy's Irish Stew.—From a fine neck of mutton cut off the best chops, trim as much of the fat as is necessary, and put them away; soak the remaining part of the neck in cold water, and wash clean; put the whole into a saucepan with just enough water to cover it, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours; strain it into a basin, and when cold skim off the fat. Take a pint of this stock, put it into a saucepan with five or six onions, lay the chops which you had put by over them, put in a dozen Jind a half of ppehid