( 559 ) PIG powdered thj-me, a grated nutmeg, and a little pepper. Pound these ingredients together, and Le sure that thej^ are thoroughly blended. Tiuie to bake the liver, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Liver, Fried.—Soak the liver of a freshly-killed pig, and cut it into slices less than half an inch thick. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over these, and fry them in hot fat until they are brightly browned on both sides. Take them up, put them on a hot dish, and mix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with the butter in which they were fried. Moisten with two table-spoonfuls of boiling stock or water and two table-spoonfuls of claret. Stir the gravy over the fire until the sauce is on the point of boiling, add pepper and salt, if required, and pour it over the liver: serve very hot. If Ukcd, one or two sliced onions may be fried ■with the liver. Time to fry the liver, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pig's Pettitoes, or Sucking Pig's Feet, Fried in Batter.—Make a frying batter as follows : — Mix five ounces of flour smoothly with a gill of water and a little salt. Add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, mixed with two table-spooiifuls of Lucca oil; beat the batter for five or six minutes, then put it aside for an hour. It ought to be as thick as custard. A few minutes before it is wanted, stir in the whites of the eggs, whisked to a firm froth. Clean the pettitoes thoroughly. Boil them gently in as much broth or water as will cover them, imtil they are tender. Take them up, dry them well, split them open, dip them into the batter, and fry them in hot butter until they are lightly browned. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to boil the pettitoes, from twenty to thirty minutes; to fry, ten minutes. Probable cost, uncertain, pig's pettitoes being generally sold with the pig. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pig's Pettitoes, Stewed.—Cleanse a set of pettitoes thoroughly, and put them into a stewpan, with the heart, the liver, a thin slice of bacon, six or eight peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, half a blade of mace, and as much broth or water as will cover the whole. Simmer gently-for a quarter of an hour, then take out the heart and the liver, and mince them finely. Leave the feet until they are tender—they will require to be simmered from twenty to thirty minutes, counting from the time when they first reach the boiling-point. When they are done enough, put the mince back into the stew- pan, with a little pepper and salt, a piece of butter roUed in flour, and a table-spoonful of cream. Shake the saucepan over the fire for five or six minutes. Serve the mince in the sauce on a hot dish, split the feet, lay them upon the mince, and gurv.hh. with toasted sippets. The pettitoes arc generally sold with the pig. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigs' Tongues.—Trim six or eight pigs' tongues neatly at the root, and rub thorn well with moist sugar. Leave them for twenty-four hours; then rub into them a powder, made of four ounces of common salt, two ounces of bay salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre. Turn them daily. They will be ready for use in ten days. If' liked, they may be put into sausage-skins, dried, and smoked. Sufficient for one or two persons. Pigeons.—Tame pigeons should be cooked as soon as possible after they are killed, as they very quickly lose their flavour. Wood pigeons and rock pigeons, on the contrary, should bo allowed to hang a few days before they are dressed. Although these birds may be said to be in season all the year round, they are at their best from Midsummer to Michaelmas. In choosing them, it should be remembered that dark-coloured birds are thought to possess the highest flavour, and light-coloured birds to be the most delicate. Toung birds are, of course, always to be preferred to old ones. When the legs are large and deeply coloured, the pigeon is old, and wiU very likely be tough. House pigeons are the best, and wood pigeons the largest. Rock pigeons are inferior in quality to both the others. Pigeons (a la St. Menehould).—Mix an ounce of butter and flour smoothly together over a moderate fire. Add half a pint of milk, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay- leaf, two moderate-sized onions, a carrot, and a parsnip, all sliced, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce until it boils; then put in two plump young pigeons, trussed as if for boiling, and let them stew gently until they are done enough. Take them up, drain them, cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat until they are lightly coloured. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce poured roimd them. Time, about half an hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Suffi- cient for two or three persons. Pigeons, Braised, with Mushrooms, &C.—Stuff three pigeons with good veal force- meat, and truss them as if for boiling. Put one or two slices ©f fat bacon under and over the birds, and place with them, in a pan just large enough to centain them, a large onion fried in hot butter, a broken shank of veal, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, a little pepper and salt, and a pint of good stock. Cover the preparation with buttered paper, press the lid of the sauce- pan closely down, and let the pigeons stew as gently as possible. Take them up, and keep them hot while the gravy is boiling quickly down to a jeUy. Glaze them with this, and serve with stewed mushrooms or green peas. Time to braise, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 3b. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Pigeons, Broiled. — Pigeons may be broiled whole, or split open and flattened with a cleaver. They are more easily cooked when flattened, but retain their juice better if left '^hole. Pluck, draw, singe, and wash the bird. Dip it in some oil or clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire until it is nicely browned. Baste once or twice; and in order to do this put the bird on a plate, and with a feather brush it over with