SIC ( 877 ) SIL in which tho jtiice of the lemon and the juice of five or six oranges must be squeezed. Then iidd the melted isinglass, and mix well together. Strain through a fine sieve. Orangeade.—Take the thin peel of two oranges find of one lemon; add the water and sugar the same as for lemonade; when cold, add the juice of one lemon and of four or five oranges, and strain off. Orgeat.—Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar or capillaire. Fanada (made in five minutes).—Set a little water on the fire Avith a glassful of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon- peel; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keep it stiU on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness to drink, take it off. Pork Jelly, Br. Ratcliff's Restorative.—Take a leg of well-fed pork just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce each of mace and nutmeg stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a chocolate-cupful the first and last thing and at noon, adding salt to taste. Shank Jelly.—Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a saucepan with thi-ee blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close-covered ; lot them simmer as gently as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a cold place. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for flavouring. It is a remarkably good thing for people who are weak. Sippets.—On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there is no butter in the dish. Sprinkle a little salt over. Sponge-Cake Pudding.—Pour boiling milk on six penny sponge cakes, and follow the same directions as for the bread pudding {see Bread Pudding, Light), sometimes adding a few mus- catel raisins. Half a wine-glassful of sherry, or a table-spoonful of good brandy may also be added, if approved. Tapioca Jelly.—Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in tho same until it becomes quite clear; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much. Tench Broth.—Make in the same,way as eel broth. They are both very nutritious and light of digestion. Toast and Water.—Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a jugful of QOld water, and cover it over an hour before using. It should be of a fine brown colour before drinking it. Veal Broth (very nourishing).—Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank- bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten peppercorns, an onion, a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water into a stewpot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boUed up and been skimmed; or bake it; strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will requii'e four hours. Veal, To Extract the Essence of.—Take two pounds of the loan part of the leg of veal, and cut it in pieces, without any of the fat. Wash the meat in cold water, and put it in a white glazed jar or stone jar just large enough to hold the pieces. Add only two table-spoonfuls of water. Cover the jar down closefy, and lay it in a saucepan containing boiling water, which must continue to boil on a slow fire for two hours. At the end of that time all the j uice or gravy will be extracted, and may be strained off for use. Vermicelli, Italian Paste, and Bice.—These are all to be prepared in the same way as ma- caroni {see Macaroni -with Broth). In this way light and nutritious diet will be furnished for an invalid, which will often be retained on the stomach when a more solid substance would be rejected. Water Gruel.—Put a large spoonful of oat- meal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. Water-Gruel (another way).—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal with two of water, and pour it into a pint of water boUing on the fire; stir it well, and boil quickly, but take care that it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour strain it ofiF, and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. Whey.—That of cheese is a very wholesome drink, especially when the cows are in fresh herbage. White Broths with Vermicelli.—Light and delicate white broths may be produced by stir- ring the yolks of two or three fresh eggs with two table-spoonfuls of cold water, which must then be poured into the hot broth, gently stir- ring it all the time, without allowing the broth to boU after the eggs are put in, or they will be curdled. Silver JeUy.—If properly made, this jelly will be perfectly clear and colourless. Put an ounce and a half of the best Russian isinglass into a saucepan, and pour over it a pint of cold water. Cover the pan closely, place it on a gentle fire, and let it remain until the isinglaas is dissolved; then pour it out till cool. Rub the rind of two fresh lemons with three or four large lumps of sugar tiU the yellow part is taken off. Add sugar to make up the weight to three-quarters of a pound; put this into a bowl, and pour upon it half a pint of strained lemon-juice. Put the dissolved isinglass into a saucepan, and beat briskly into it the sugar and lemon-juice, together with the crushed shells and well-whisked whites of four eggs. Place