VEA VEA ( 1034 ) nnd biiko tho proparation in ii inodoruto oven. Turn it out whon cold, and garnish with parsley. If liked, thifi cake may bo served hot, and sent to tablu with brown f^ravy. Time to bake tho aiko, about an hour, or" until it is brown. Veal Cake (another way).—Butter a i)lain earthenware dish or mould. Fill it with altemato layers of hard-boiled yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, and veal and ham mincodi seasoned highly, mixed thoroughly, and beaten to a smooth paste. Pour a spoonful or two of seasoned stock upon the meat, cover the pan closely, and bako in a gentle oven. When done enough, press firmly into tho mould, put a plate with a weight upon it, and let it remain untouched till cold. Turn it out, garnish with parsley, and servo for luncheon or supper. Time to halve, about an hour. Veal Cake, Superior.—Put a pint of stock made from bones into a stevpan with thi-ee young orn'ons, each stuck with one clove, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, and half an ounce of gelatine. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stir its contents till the gelatine is dissolved. To clarify it, stir into it when cold the white and crushed shell of an egg beaten up with a little water. Let it boil, draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently without touching it for ten minutes ; take it off the fire, let it settle for ten minutes, and then strain it through a jelly-bag. Cut a pound and a half of veal collops and three-quarters of a pound of bacon or ham into thin slices. Pour a spoonful or two of the savoury jelly into an ordinary potting pan or earthenware dish. Let it get cold, then cover with a layer of hard-boiled yolks of eggs cut into slices. Place on this a neat layer of the slices of veal, then a little salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, and shallot, and afterwards a few slices of ham. Pour a little jelly upon this, and repeat the layers until the dish is full. Cover the pan closely with a stiff paste of flour and water, put it in a dripping-tin three parts filled with boiling water, and keep adding more water as this boils away, until the cake is done enough. Take it out of the oven, and set in a cool place for some hours. Turn it upon a dish, and garnish with parsley. If the cake is put into the oven without the water under it, it will in aU probability be dried up and spoilt. Time to bake the cake, an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Probable cost, 43. Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Veal Cakes, Small.—Mince, season, and mix the veal and bacon as in the last recipe. Divide the mixture into small cakes. Dredge these aU over with flour, and fry in hot fat over a gentle fire. Drain them well, and serve in a hot dish with brown sauce, made from the trimmings of tho veal and thickened, poured over them. Time to fry the cakes, about a quarter of an hour. Veal—Calf's Brains (a la Ravigotc).— Wash the brains in several waters, and free them from skin and fibre. Boil them for ten minutes in salt and water mixed with a table- spoonful of vinegar, and when they are firm, cut them in slices, dip them in a frying hatU-.r, and fry th(;m to a light Itrown. Place them in a circle on a hot dish with a little fried parsley in tho centre, and send ravigoto sauce to table with them. Time to fry the brains, four or five minutes. Calf's brains are generally sold with the head. Sufficient for two or three jjersons. Veal—Calf 8 Head, Boiled.—Take a calf's head, cut it in two, and take out the brains; wash tho head in several waters, and let it soak in warm water for a quarter of an hour. Place it in a saucepan of cold water, and when the water comes to the boil skim carefully. Half a head, without the skin, will require boiling from an hour and a half to two hours and a quarter, according to size: with the skin it will require an hour longer. It must be stewed verj' gently till tender. Boil tender eight or ten sage-leaves, or parsley, or both ; chop them fine, and set them ready on a plate. Wash the brains well in two waters; put them into a bashi of cold water with a little salt in it, and let them soak for an hour; then pour away the cold and cover them with hot water; put them into a stewpan with plenty of cold water, and boil verj- gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Now chop them {tiot very fine), put them into a saucepan with the sage-leaves, a couple of table-spoonfuls of thin melted butter, and a little salt (some add a little lemon-juice), and stir them well to- gether. As soon as they are well warmed, skin the tongue, trim off the roots, and put it into the centre of the dish, the brains round it; or chop the brains with an shallot, a little parsley, and four hard-boiled eggs, and put them into a quarter of a pint of bechamel or white sauce. A calf's head is usually attended by a pig's cheek, a knuckle of ham or bacon, or pickled pork, greens, cauliflower, broccoli, or peas, and always by parsley and butter. If you like it full-dressed, score it superficially, beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a feather. Powder it with a seasoning of finely-minced or dried and pow- dered winter savorj', lemon-thjTne, or sage, parsley, pepper, salt, and bread-crumbs; and give it a brown with a salamander, or in a tin Dutch oven; when it begins to dry, sprinkle a little melted butter over it with a paste-brush. You may garnish the dish with broiled rashers of bacon. Veal—CaUTs Head, Hashed. —Soak the head in water, boil it, not thoroughly, but until the meat may be cut clean from the bone. Take the meat off the bone on the best side, lay it in a dish, and cover it with crumbs of bread among which are a few herbs cut vorj- small, with some pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it occasionally that all parts of the meat may become brown. Slice the remainder of tho head, peel and shco also the tongue. Put a pint of good gravy, or of the liquor in which the head was boiled, into a pan with an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, cayenne, shallot, a glassful of sherry, and a little oyster liquor. Boil these