( 1003 ) Ttm TTTB season with pepper and salt. Put into a stewpan two or thi-ee tablo-spoonfuls of thick cream, the quantity to bo regulated by that of the fish. Thicken the cream by boiHng it with a shco of butter rolled in flour, and when it is quite hot put the minced fish into it that it may heat also. It should be remembered that the seasoned mince should be of a good con- sistency, or it will soak through the pastry. Fill the hot patties or the hot vol-au-vents with the hot mince, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time, a few minutes to prepare the mince. Turbot, Pickled.—Take the remains of a dressed turbot; lift the flesh from the bones in large pieces, and put these in a deep dish. Put the bones and tiimmings into a saucepan with a pint of water, and add an onion stuck with two cloves, a small turnip and carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay- leaf. Simmer these gently for half an hour, then add a glassful of sherry, or, if preferred, a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let the liquor cool, and strain it over the fish. Serve quite cold. Time to boil the pickle, half an hour. Turbot Pie.—Take the remains of cold turbot, free the white flesh from skin and bone, tear it into flakes, and season with pepper, salt, and a small portion of powdered mace. Spread it at the bottom of a thickly-buttered baking-dish, and pour over it any sauce that was left with it, either melted butter, white sauce, oyster sauce, or any other kind. If there is no cold sauce, put two or three ounces of clarified butter over the fish. Mash some potatoes with hot milk and a little butter, and spread a layer of these fully an inch and a half deep over the fish. Rough the top with a fork, and heat the pie in a brisk oven. If it is not nicely browned on the top, put it in front of a clear fire for a few minutes before sending it to table, or hold a salamander or a red-hot fire-shovel over it. Sei-ve very hot. Time to bake the pie, about half an hour. Turbot, Roe of. — Handle the roe as lightly as possible. Blanch and cut it into slices. Put it into a buttered dish, bake it imtil done enough, and keep it well basted during the process. Put it on a hot dish, and pour over it as much nicely-flavoured white sauce as will cover it. Garnish the dish with parsley and sliced lemon, and serve very hot. Time to bake the roe, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Sufficient for a small dish. Turbot Salad.—The remains of dressed turbot will make a most delicious salad. Lift the flesh from the bones, free it from skin and bone, and divide it into pieces an inch and a half square. Season these slightly with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar, cover the dish on which they are, and leave them in a cool place tiU wanted. Wa.sh two large fresh lettuces or any suitable salad. Dry them perfectly by putting them in small quantities at a time into a clean cloth, then taking this up loosely by the four comers .and shaking the moisture from the loaves. Cut them into neat pieces half an inch broad, and leave them in an airy place till wanted. I3eat the raw yolks of two fieah eggs for two or thi-oc minutes, and mix with them a spoonful of mixed mustai'd, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a little white pepper. Add first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls four table-spoonfuls of lucca oil, and beat the sauce well for a minute between every addition. Afterwards stii- in gradually a tea-spoonful of good French vinegar and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Add more oil and vinegar in the same proportions until the sauce is of the consistency of thick boiled custard. Leave it in a cool place till wanted. Arrange the salad just before it is to be sent to table. First put a layer of lettuce lightly at the bottom of the dish. Put some turbot upon it, and repeat until the materials are used. Garnish the dish in any way that may be preferred with hard- boiled eggs, sliced cucumber, beetroot, olives, filleted anchovies, &c. Pour the sauce over at the last moment, and in arranging the salad pour a small quantity of sauce over each layer of fish. Time, half an hour to prepare the sauce. It is better for being made an hour or two before it is wanted. Turbot, Sauce for.—Tmbot may be served with plain melted butter, lobster sauce, Dutch sauce, parsley sauce, white sauce, shrimp sauce, muscle sauce, or Italian sauce. It is very good eaten cold with sliced cucumber and salad sauce. The great French cook Caremo never sent any other sauce than melted butter to table with turbot. Turbot, Scalloped.—Take the remains of cold turbot, Uft the flesh from the bones, and remove the skin. Weigh the white meat, and for each pound allow six ounces of grated bread-crumbs seasoned with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Cut the fish into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, and mix with it either a table-spoonfiil of cold sauce or two ounces of clarified butter. Butter some scaUop-sheUs rather thickly. Place a layer of seasoned crumbs at the bottom of each, then lay in the fish, and sprinkle more crumbs thickly on the top. Lay little pieces of butter here and there on the surface, and put the shells in a brisk oven. When they are quite hot lift them out, and serve the fish in the shells neatly arranged on a folded napkin. If scallop-shells are not at hand, a small baking- dish may be used instead. If preferred, the same quantity of mashed potatoes may be used instead of the bread-crumbs. Time to bako the fish in the shells, a quarter of an hour. Turbot, Stewed.—Take a small turbot, clean it perfectly, dry it well, and cut it into thin slices. Make a sauce of thin melted butter boiled up with a little salt and cayenne, a filleted anchovy, a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, a tea-spoonful of walnut pickle, and a glassful of claret. Fry the slices of fish in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and put them into the sauce. Let thera simmer gently for five minutes. Take them up carefully with a fish-slice so as not to break them, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and servo immediately. Garnish with sliced lemon. Time to fry the fish, five minutes; to simmer it in the sauce, five miuutea.