( 711 ) well softened with water and torn up into little hits. "This method of liltoring fruit," says M. Dubois, "is the best and simplest of all." Soak half an ounce of good gelatine, and dis- solve this in water enough to three-parts fill a jelly-mould ; add three-quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and then clarify the mixture with two whites of eggs and the juice of a few lemons. When the mixture becomes limpid, add the juice of the raspberries and pour it im- mediately into a jolly-mould embedded in pounded'ice. Let it stand for three-quarters of an hour, and then turn the jelly out on a dish, having previously dipped the mould in warm water. Jelly made with the juice of red fruit, should not be allowed to remain long in a tin mould, for contact with it injures their colour. Raspberry Jelly, Isinglass {see Isin- glass Jelly, Currant and Easpberry). Raspberry Liqueur.—Put a pint of freshly-gathered ripe raspberries into a spirit jar, with a quart of genuine spirit of any kind. Cork closely, and leave it for a month. Boil a pound of sugar in a pint and a half of water tni it is clear syrup. Filter the spirit through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix it with the syi'up, and bottle for use. Time, one month. Sufiicient for two quarts of liqueur. Raspberry Lozenges. — Boil two or three pounds of raspberries till they are almost dry. Add as much moist or powdered sugar as the fruit weighed to begin with. Stir this in off the fire, and when the fruit and sugar are thoroughly mixed, spread the preparation upon oiled plates, and let it dry either in the sun or before a slow fire. When the surface is dry, stamp the paste into lozenges of any shape or size; expose these again to a gentle heat, and when they are quite dry store them in single layers between sheets of writing-jmper. These lozenges will keep best in tin boxes with closely- fitting lids, and it is most important that they should be stored in a dry place. Time, twenty- four hours or more to dry the lozenges. Raspberry Omelet.—Break three eggs into a basin, and add a tea-spoonful of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Melt two ounces of butter in an omelet pan. Beat the eggs, &c., tiU they are quite frothy, and keep on beating them till the last moment. When the butter is frothing pour in the mixture, and stir quickly with a spoon, scrap- ing the bottom of the frying-pan all the time till it begins to set. Draw it a little from the fire, and work the omelet into a half-moon shape. Hold it before the fire in a slanting position to make it rise, put a spoonful of raspberry jam in the centre, and serve the omelet immediately. If preferred, the jam may be placed on one half of the omelet, and the other half turned completely over it. Time, three or four minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficiicnt for two persons. Raspberry Paste.—Mash a quart of raspberries, strain one half of the fruit, and put the juice to the other half; boil them a quarter of an hour, put to them a pint of red-currant juice, and let them boil all together till the raspberries are done enough. Then put a pound and a half of double refined sugar into a clean pan vith ks much water as will dissolve it; boil it to a sugar again; then put in the raspberries and juice, scald, and pour them into glasses. Put them into a stove to dry, and turn them when necessary. Raspberry Pudding.—Line a buttered basin with suet paste rolled out to the thickness of half an inch. Fill it with fresh raspberries, or with raspberries and red currants mixed, and sprinkle a little sugar over the top. Cover the pudding with pastry, fold the edges securely over, put the basin into a floured cloth wrung out of boiling water, plunge it into a saucepan with boiling water to cover it, and let it boil quickly until done enough. If it is necessary to add water, let it be boiling. Turn the pudding out carefully, cut a small round from the top that the steam may escape, and serve immediately. In winter time very good puddings may be made with bottled raspbemes. Time to boil a moderate-sized pudding, two hours to two hours and a half. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. Raspberry Pudding, Baked.—Put a pint of fresh raspberries into a pie-dish, and sprinkle a little sugar over them; Beat the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two with a quarter of a pint of milk, add a little sugar, whisk the custard till it froths, and pour it over the fruit. Put it into the oven immediately, and bake till the custard is set. Let it get cold, sift powdered sugar over, and serve. This pudding should not be eaten hot. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raspberry Pudding, Rich.—Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add a spoonful of sugar, three table-spoonfuls of cream, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and a table-spoonful of raspberry jam. Line a shallow pie-dish with puii paste. Pour in the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven till the pastry is done enough. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Raspberry Salad.—Pick the raspbemes, and examine each one for fear any insects should be lurking in the heart of the fruit. Pile them on a dish, and sprinkle a little finely- powdered sugar upon them. Pour over them a few spoonfuls of wine, brandy, liqueur, or even plain cream, and stir the salad when serving it, so that an equal proportion of sauce and sugar may be given to each guest. The salad will be improved if some other fruit, such as white or red currants or strawberries are mixed with the raspberries. Raspberry Sauce.—Raspberry sauce for sweet i^uddings of various kinds may be made in three or four ways, as follows:—Put equal quantities of picked raspberries and red cur- rants into a saucepan with a small portion of sugar, and as much water as will cover the bottom of the pan. Let them simmer gently till they break, then rub them through a sieve. Boil the juice, and serve. Or, beat two eggs in a bowl; mix smoothly with them a tea- ,s])oonful of flour, half a pint of raspberry juice, and two table-spoonfuls of augar. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and whisk it over the