PIG ( 654 ) in a pint of strong alo for a quarter of an hour. Pour the liquid, whon cold, over tho chooks, and lot thoni rt'inaiu in it for a fortnight, turning and basting overy day; tlion Imng tlioin in smoke for a week, when thoy will bo roudy for uso.^ Probable coat of chuoks, 8d. por pound. Sufficient, one cheek for eight or ton persons. Pig's Cheek, Pickled (another way).— Wash a coupio of pig's cheeks, strew a handful of salt over thorn, and leave them for twenty- four hours. Drain tliem, and dry them well with a soft cloth. Powder and mix the following ingredients :—A quarter of a pound of common salt, a quarter of a pound of moist sug.-ir, one ounce of saltpetre, and half an ounce of ground popper. Dry this mi.\turo thoroughly before tho fire, rub it well into the cheeks, and turn and rub them ever day for four weeks. They may either be boiled straight from tho pickle or hung to diy in a cool place; if they arc boiled at once they require only to be well washed before being cooked; if they are dried they must be soaked. When pig's cheeks are cured and dried like bacon they are called Bath Chaps. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig's Cheeks, Potted.—Take a large pig's head, split it oi^en, take out the brains, and cut off the ears. Let it soak in cold water for twenty-four hours, then put the cheek, with the tongue, into a saucepan, cover with cold water, bring slowly to the boil, and let the meat simmer gently until it is so tender that the bones can be easily drawn out. Draw off the skin, if possible in one piece, and while the meat is still hot mince it quickly, and season rather highly with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Lay half the skin at the bottom of a pan or bowl, put in the mince, and cover with the remainder of the skin. Place a plate with a weight upon it, and leave it until it is quite cold. It will turn out in a shape, and should be cui in thin slices, and eaten with vinegar and mustard. It may be kept in a pickle made of the liquid in which it was stewed boiled with a little salt and vinegar. Time to boil the cheeks, two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost of pig's head, 6d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a standing breakfast dish. Pig's Ears. — Pig's ears are generally dressed with the feet. They may, however, be stuffed and stewed as follows:—Bone an an- chovy, and pound it to a paste. Mix with it six ounces of grated broad-crumbs, two ounces of minced veal, four- ounces of shred suet, a tea-spoonful of shred parsley, and two or three sage-leaves. Season this forcemeat with salt and cayenne, and bind it together with the yolks of two eggs. Take two or four ears which have been already soaked for some hours and pai-tially boiled. liaise tho skin of tho upper jido, and fill them with the stuffing. Fry thCm in hot fat till they are brightly browned, drain them well, and stow them gently in thi-ee-quarters of a pint of very rich brown gravy, nicely flavoured and highly seasoned. Serve the cars on a hot dish, with the gravy strained and poured round them. If likod, a I pur6o of peas can bo sent to table with them. > Time to stew, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain, jiig's ears being generally sold with the head. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons. Pig's Feet (a la SainteMenehould).—Take two large pig's feet which have been salted, or not, as most conveni(;nt. Cleanse them perfectly, split them in halves, and bind them securely with tape to keep tlieni in their jn-oper jjosition. Put them into a saucepan, witha quait of broth or water, and with them a little pei)i>er—and .salt, if required—a caxTot, an onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and two or three outer sticks of celery. Let : them simmer gently for several hours until quite tender. Drain them, draw out the large bone, and press the feet between two dishes, until they are cold and stiff. When wanted for use, dip them into clarified butter, cover thickly with highly-seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire until they are lightly browned all over. Turn them twice during the opera- tion. Serve on a hot dish, with piquant sauce, or Robert sauce, or, if preferred, with a puree of green peas in the centre of the dish. Time to broil, till hot thi-ough. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Feet and Ears.—Clean and soak the feet and ears, and boil them in water until they are tender. SpUt the feet in halves, di'aw out the bones, and press them between two dishes until they are cold and stiff. Cut the ears into strips, half an inch wide, and set them also aside. When they are to be served, dissolve two ounces of fresh butter, and mix smoothly with it a tea-spoonful of flour. Slice two good-sized onions, and stew them in the mixture until they are tender; put in the ears, and when they are hot, stir in with them- a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard. Turn the whole upon a hot dish, and keep it in a warm place. Dip the feet into clarified butter and seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire. Put them on the dish, with the ears, &c., and serve as hot as possible. Time to boil, imtil tender; to broil, ten minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pig's Feet and Ears, Frica?seed.— Take the feet and ears of a pig, which, if not fresh, have been pickled with salt without any vinegar. Cleanse and wash them, then cut them into neat pieces, half an inch wide, and boil them in a pint of milk until they are quite tender. Drain and dry them well, and put them into a stewpan, with half a pint of veal stock, a little salt and cayenne, a blade of mace, a strip of lemon-rind, and a sliced onion. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, then add a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled thickly in flour, and three table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the hquid over a slow fire until it is smooth and tlvick, and serve the meat on a hot dish, with tho sauce poured round it: garnish with sliced lemon. Pigs' feet and ears should ho f/eiitli/hoilcd. Suflicient for four or five peraonti. Pig's Feet and Ears Fried in Batter. —Wasli and cleanse the feet and oars of a fully- grown pig, and lot them lie in salt for four or