( 640 ) POT POU strain oflE, repeating it with the strained liquor over fresh herbs if it is wished to have the essence very sti-ong. This iuiprognatos boui)8 or sauces with the flavour without any appear- ance of the herb, and it will keep good for years, whilst a very small quantity Buitices. The proper season for gathering the following herbs to be preserved in either mode or in both, is as follows:—Basil, from the middle of August to middle of September; knotted mar- joram, from beginning of July to end of August; savory, the same ; thyme, throughout June and July; mint, July; sage, August and September; tarragon and burnot, from July and August; chervil, parsley, and fennel, May, June, and July. Pot, Pepper (see Pepper Pot). Potted Dishes.—Recipes for the follow- ing potted dishes will be found under their respective headings:— Anchovies Mutton Australian Meat Neat's Feet Beef Neat's Tongue Cheese Ortolans Chicken and Ham Ox Cheek Crab Ox Tongues Crayfish Ox Tongue, Whole Eels Partridge Eggs Pheasant Fowl Poultry Fowl with Ham Prawns Grilse or Trout Prawns, Shrimps, Grouse OR Cray-Fish Ham Rabbit Ham and Fowl Salmon Hare Shrimps Herrings Snipes Lamprey Tongue Larks Trout Lorster Veal Mackerel Potted Head.— Cleanse perfectly half a bullock's head and a cow-heel. Put them into lukewarm water, and let them soak for two or three hours. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan; cover with cold water, and let them simmer very gently until the meat is quite tender. Pour the liquid into a separate bowl, and set it in a cool place. Let the meat cool, remove from it the bones, skin, and sinew, and cut it into very small pieces. Skim the fat from the top of the broth, strain the liquor, and put it into a jar, with the minced meat and a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Cover closely, and let it bake in a gentle oven for three hours longer. Pour it into small moulds, and let these stand in a cool place. WTien quite cold the preparation will form a jelly, and it should bo turned out for use, and served cold. Garnish the dish with sprigs of fresh parsley. If the jelly is so stiff that there is a difficult)^ in turning it out, plunge the mould into boiling water for a second or two, and it ^vill come away easily. Time, about three hours to simmer the head from the time the water reaches the boiling- point. Probable cost of bullock's head, 8d. per pound. Potted Meat.—To pot moat is one way of preserving it longer than would be possible in the ordinary way; and in potting it this is done by pounding the flesh to a pulp in a mortar, mixing it with salt and spices, pressing it into a jar, and covering it with a thick coat of melted butter or lard to exclude the air. The jar is then tied down tightly with bladder or oiled paper. The remains of any tender, well- roasted moat will answer just an well for pot- ting as if it were dressed for the purixjse; but care should be taken first that the meat is cut through, and that every little piece of skin, fat, sinew, and gristle is removed, and after- wards that it is pounded so thproughly that not a single lump is to be found in it. Care is re- quired, too, in seasoning it, and it is better to add the spices gradually, and to keep tasting the meat until it satisfies the palate—for additional spice can be put in when it cannot be taken out. At the same time potted meat is worth nothing unless it is pleasantly flavoured, and it is almost universally liked rather highly seasoned. The meat should be cold before it is cut, and the butter should be cool before it is poured upon the paste. The gravy, too, should be drained thoroughly from the meat, or it will not keep. Dry and salted meats will need more butter than fresh white ones. Potting.—By potting is generally meant the operation of preserving edible substances in a state for immediate use in small pots or jars. In the case of animal food, the method of pro- ceeding is first to dress the substance well, carefully deprive it of bones, skin, sinews, &c., and then mince it. Aiter being minced it is pounded in a clean polished marble or iron mortar, together with a httle butter and some cayenne pepper, or other suitable sauce or spice, until it forms a perfectly smooth paste. This is pressed into pots, which are about two- thirds filled," Clarified butter is then poured in, to the depth of about an eighteenth of an inch; the pots are closed over and stored in a cool place. In this state their contents can be preserved for a considerable time. Potted meats, fish, &c., are commonly sold in the shops. They are all intended for relishes, and are spread upon bread just like butter. For various recipes for potted meats, &c., see Potted Dishes. Pot Top Liquor.—The fat should always be skimmed carefully from the top of soups and sauces, and this fat may be used for frjong purposes, and ■will be found excellent. It should, of course, be clarified: to accomplish this it should bo boiled gently with a little water, then strained through a gravy strainer. Or it may be 2)oured into a bowl with the water, and when it is cold it will be found that the impin-itics have sunk to the bottom of the cake of fat, and may easily be removed. It is most essential to the excellence of soup that it should be well skimmed, and it is a good plan to throw a tfible-spoonful of cold water into the liquor as it approaches the boiling-point, to assist the scum in rising. Poulac Ketchup.—Take a quart of ripe elderberries, measured after they have been