SHE SHE ( 868 ) bring the liquor to tho Loil, skim it carefully, draw Iho pan to the side of the tire, uud let its contents simmer gently for two hours. Wash the brains, cloar them from fibre, boil thein for a quarter of an hour, and beat them till smooth, and put with them a slice of fresh butter, two table-spoonfuls of line oatmeal, two tablo- Bpoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar. 8tir tho mixture into the soup, and let it simmer again for two hours, ykiu tho tongues, and cut them and the meat from tho head into neat mouthfuls. Let them heat again in the soup, add a glassful of light wine, and serve. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost, sheep's heads. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for six or eight per- sons. Sheep's Head, Stuffed and Roasted. —Instead of skinning the head, scald and scrape it till the wool is removed, then spUt it in halves. Take out the brains whole and the tongue. Cleanse the former from fibre, wash the latter well, and place both in a saucepan. Cover them with cold water mixed with a large spoonful of vinegar, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Take out the eyes, cut away the gristle from the nose, shorten the jaw-bones where there is no fiesh, and soak the head in lukewarm water. Make a little good veal forcemeat, and add to it an onion finely shred and the tongue and brains minced. Bind the forcemeat together with yolk of egg, put it into the head, fasten the two halves securely with string, and roast before a clear tire. Baste liberally, and send brown sauce and red-currant jelly to table with the sheep's head. Time to roast, two hours. Probable cost, sheep's heads. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Suf- ficient for three persons. Sheep's Head, Tongue, and Trot- ters, Puddings of.—The remains of sheep's head, tongue, and trotters may be made into a pudding with suet crust, and boiled in the usual way. Two or three sliced walnuts may be put in with the meat. Sheep's Hearts.—Soak the hearts in water, and wash them thoroughly. Cut away the pipes, and trim them neatly. Fill them with good veal forcemeat, and skewer thin slices of fat bacon round them. Eoast before a clear fire, and baste liberally. Thicken a quarter of a pint of stock with a tea-spoonful of ground rice, flavour the sauce with ketchup, season with pepper and salt, and add a glass of wine if Uked. Serve the hearts on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and send red-currant jelly to table with them. The stuffing may be made with the ingredients in the following pro- portions. Shred a quarter of a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with it two ounces of finoly-grated bread-crumbs, a dcsscrt-sjwonful of chopped parsley, a finely-minced shallot, a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, the hard- boiled yolk of an egg, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. iSIix the dry ingredients thoroughly, moisten them with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and bind them together with the yolk of a raw egg. This quantity of stuffing will be sufficient for two hearts. If Uked, the strips of bacon can be left off, and tho hearts tied round with oiled paper, which should be removed about twenty ininutes before the heart is taken up, that it iriay brown. Time to roast the heart, about llaee-quarters of an houj-. Probable cost, lOd. each. Sufficient, two heaitti for throe persons. Sheep's Hearts (another way).—Prepare a seasoning as for a duck, viz., onions, sage, bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt. 'lake one heart, or more if required; fill well with the seasoning, and fasten up the aperture witli a small iron skewer or needle and thread. Place two or three lumps of sugar, or a Httle brown sugar, in the bottom of a stewpan with a few drops of water; when this is dissolved into a brown or burnt-looking colouring, add a little more water, with a good-sized lump of butter or dripping. Put in the hearts, burning them tni they are a rich brown ; add enough stock to nearly cover them, with a flavouring of a little sauce, pepper, salt, and vinegar, which will give a piquancy. Stew slowly for two hours. Sheep's Hearts [see Hearts, Sheep's). Sheep's Hearts, Baked.—Prepare and stuff the hearts as for roasting, and skewer thin slices of fat bacon over them. Put them with the broad end downwards in a dripping-tin, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, pour a pint of broth round them, and bake in a well-heated oven. Baste frequently. Take up the hearts, and keep them hot. Skim and strain the gi-avy, boil it quickly tiU it is reduced one- half, thicken with a spoonful of brown thicken- ing, and flavour with store sauce. Place the hearts on a dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Send red-currant jelly to table as an accom- paniment. If liked, an onion can be stewed in the gra^^ with the hearts. Time to bake, two hours. Probable cost, sheep's hearts, lOd. each. Sufficient, two hearts for three persons. Sheep's Hearts, Baked (another way). —Stuflf the hearts as before, cover with bacon, put them into boiling water, and siromer gently xmtil done enough. Take them up, let them cool, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and cover each one with good pastrj-. Brush them over with yolk of egg, and sprinkle vermicelli loosely upon them. Bake in a well-heated oven. "When the pastry is done enough, serve the hearts on a hot dish, and send brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time to boil the hearts, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, lOd. each. Suf- ficient, two for three persons. Sheep's Kidneys.—Unless sheep's kid- neys can be served qmte hot they are not worth eating. Sheep's Kidneys, Broned.-Cut the kidneys in half the long way. bkm tliem, score them a Uttle, sprinkle salt and cayenne over them, dip them in clarified butter, and run a skewer through them to keep them from curiing on the gridiron. Broil over a clear fire. Take out the skewers, and serve the kidneys on a hot dish with the hollow pait uppermost. Garnish the dish with parel<-y. Time to broil tho kidneys, eight to twelve minutes, according to size. Probable cosU