( 788 ) SAG SAG Keep tho cask open for four or five days and well filled up; when tho liciuor has done hiMsing, wait a day, then add threo half-pints of brandy and an ounce and a half of host isinglass dis- solved in two quarts of the wine. Secure tho bung carefully, and store in a cool di-y colliir for twelve months; then, if fine, bottle tho wine; if not, rack it olf into a clean vessel, filter the dregs two or three times through a flannel bag, and fill the cask again. Add a pint more brandy and four ounces of sugar-candy; then stop the cask up again, and bottle the wine in three months. If kept for lialf a year this wine will be excellent and higlily flavoured. Sage Wine, Red.—Take throe pecks of red sage-leaves, pick them from the stalks, shred them roughly, and pour over them four gallons of boiling soft water. Cover the vessel closely, and let it stand for one day. Take forty-five pounds of good Malaga raisins, pick them, cut them in halves, take out the stones, and pour over them six gallons of water that has been well boiled and grown hikewarm. Stir well, and cover them up. Then mix the contents of the two vessels, add the rinds of ten lemons, pared very thin, and their juice. Let all infuse for five days, stirring twice daily. Place in a clean ten-gallon cask six ounces of sugar-candy and an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and beaten to a paste together with a spoonful of brandy. Strain the liquor upon them, filling to the bunghole of the cask, which must be tightly covered. Let the liquor work out, keeping the cask full, and on the fermentation ceasing, put in a quart of brandy, and stop up the bunghole for two months. Then rack the liquor into a clean vessel, filter the lees, and return all that is clear into the cask again with six ounces more of sugar-candy, a pint of brandy, and an ounce and a half of isinglass dissolved in two quarts of the wine. Stop the cask effectually, and store for twelve months. At the end of the year bottle the wine, and when it is eighteen months old it will be fit for use. This is an excellent stomachic wine. SAOO. Showing Palm, Flower, and Ripe Fruit. Sago.—The farinaceous food of this name is light, wholesome, and nutritions, and cspocinllv suited for children and invalids. It ib made from tho pith of a tree which grows abundantly m the East Indies. In order to obtain it, the tree is cut down, and the pith extracted from the trunk, reduced to powder, washed, dried, and rubbed into grains for exportation. Sago, Manufacture} of). Large forests of the sago-palm grow in the Moluccas, and one tree will yield from 100 to 800 pounds of sago. Sago and Apple Pudding.—Soak a tea-cupful of largo sago in cold water for an hour, to free it from the earthy taste. Rinse it well, and boil gently till clear in a quart of water. Stir frequently, and add a little moK hot water if necessary. This will depend upon the quality of the sago, which when taken from the fire should be tolerably thin. Half fill a large buttered pie-dish with partially- boiled apples. Sweeten these, and sprinkle over them a little grated lemon-rind or pow- dered cinnamon. Pour the boiled sago over them, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When the apples are soft the pudding is done enough. Time to boil the sago, about an hour; to bake the pudding, about an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sago, Beer Soup with {see Beer Soup with Sago). Sago Bread.—One-fourth, or at most one- third, is the best proportion to wheaten bread. Dissolve the sago for three hours in milk-warm water on a hob. Then mix as for common bread. The loaves should be baked in a slack oven for two hours, then allowed to grow stale, when the bread will be found excellent and economical. Sago for Invalids.—Soak a table-spoon- ful of sago for an hour. Rinse it, and boil it gently till clear with a pint of water or milk and water. A little thin lemon-rind, grated nut- meg, cinnamon, or any other flavouring, may be boiled with it, or the sago may be merely sweetened and served with a table-spoonfid of wine or brandy stirred into it at the last moment. If the sago is too thick, a little more water may be added. Time, about three- quarters of an hour to boil the sago. Sufficient for one person. Probable cost, 2d., exclusive of the wine, &c. Sago Gruel.—Take two table-spoonfuls of sago, and place them in a small saucepan; moisten gradually with a little cold water. Set the preparation on a slow fire, and keep stirring till it becomes rather stiff and clear. Add a little grated nutmeg and sugar to, taste; if preferred, half a pat of butter may also be added with the sugar, and a glassful of wine will be an improvement to the gruel. Sago Jelly.—Take one pound of sago and five pints of water. Wash the sago well, then boil it with the water till it is reduced to a transparent jelly. The preparation may be flavoured to taste. Sago, Manufacture of—The following description of the manufacture of this important article of commerce is given by Mr. Simmonds in his " Commercial Products of the Vegetable Kingdom ":—" The tree boin^ cut down, (he r\f crior bark is removed, and the heart or pitU