CASSELL's COOKBfeY. 1166 stift pour as mucli red jelly into the band part of the mould as will fill it. When this IS quite stiff the jelly is ready to be turned out. To tui-n jelly out of the mould dip the mould quickly in and out of boiling water. Shake it gently, place a glass dish upon It, and turn it carefully upside down. If necessary give it a sharp tai) with a kmfe or spoon. Moulds for Raised Pies.—Moulds for raised pies are made to open, which rendei-s it a comparatively easy task both to form the pie and to turn it out when baked. The cost is about 68. 6d. Nutmeg Grater.—A nutmeg grater is made of tin, perforated with holes, and presenting a rough surface upon which nutmegs or whole ginger can be rubbed to powder. It generally constitutes a portion of the spice-box. When bought separately it can be procured for Id. or 2d. Paste Board and Rolling Pin.—Pastry-boards are plain smooth boards, upon which pastry can be rolled. They are generally made of common wood, but the best kinds are made of box-wood. Even these, however, are not to be compared with marble slabs. Pastry-boards should be kept scinipulously clean, should be scrubbed well every time they are used, and should be hung in a dry situation where they will be in no danger of mildewing. Probable cost of pastry-board and roller, from 2s. 6d. Paste Jagger and Corner Cutter.—These utensils are used for trimming and cutting pastry. The wheel which is placed at the end of the pastry jagger is used to mark pastry which is to be divided after it is baked. Probable cost, Is. Patty Pans.—These little pans which are used for baking tarts, cheesecakes, (fee, ai'e made of tin. They may be procured of all shapes and sizes. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 6d. per dozen. Pepper Mill.—A pepper mill can be so regulated that the pepper shall be either fine or coarse. Probable cost, 4s. 3d.; if made of steel, £1 2s. 6d. Pestles and Mortars.—These utensils are used to pound various ingredients, and are exceedingly useful in cookery. They are sold made of both brass and u-on, but these are neither so sweet, nor are they so easily kept clean, as when made either of marble or wedgewood-ware. They should be washed and diied perfectly each time they are used. Probable cost, 14s. 6d. Plate Rack.—A plate rack is a convenient article used in washing plates and dishes. The plates should be first scraped, then washed in hot water with a little soda, and wiped with the dish-cloth, linsed in cold water, and drained on the rack. In a short time they can be taken down and put away, and will present a bright shiny surface, without any of those streaks showing the marks of the dish-cloth, which are enough to take the edge off the keenest appetite. The water in which plates are washed should be changed frequently. Probable cost of plate rack, 12s. Plate Warmers.—Plate warmers are stands constructed for the purpose of heating plates that are to be used at table. They are made in various shapes, and are placed before the fire in such a position that they catch the heat which radiates fi-om it. Many modern ranges are made with a shelf, upon which plates can be put, and this dispenses with the necessity of a separate plate warmer. Probable cost, from 16s. Potato Pastry Pan.—This pan is shaped something like a baking-dish, and it is made with a perforated plate, with its valve-pipe screwed on. A delicate and savoury preparation may be prepared in it. For instmctions as to its use, see Potato Pastry, Modem. Probable cost, 4s. or 4s. 6d. Potato Steamers.—A potato steamer is a pan vnth. a perforated tin bottom, which is made to fit closely into an iron saucepan below it. The potatoes are placed in the upper pan, and are cooked by the steam which rises from the boiling water in the lower one. There is an improved steamer which is made with a handle, which can be drawn out when the potatoes are done enough, thus allowing the steam to escape, so that the heat from below dries the potatoes already cooked. Probable cost of improved steamer, 7s. to 8s. Preserving Pans.—Preserving pans are generally msidc of copper, ihey are used for making jams, jellies, and marmalade. They sliould be cletmed with scnipu-