t»AS ( 51^ / Pastry Sandwiches—KoU out some good puif paste tiU it is as thin as a wafer, and cut it into two pieces the same size and shape. Lay one of these on a buttered baking-tin, and spread over it lightly some fine fruit jelly. Place the other piece of pastry on the top, press it lightly with the fingers, mark it in squai-es where it is afterwards to be cut, and bake it in a moderate oven. Sift powdered sugar over the sandwiches before serving them, and arrange them on a neatly-folded napkin, or cut them when cold into narrow strips, pile them in a circle on a dish, and pour whipped cream into the middle of them. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, without the cream, 8d. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound of paste will make a nice supper dish. Pastry Sandwiches (another way).— Roll out two squares, one of almond paste and the other of puff paste, to the same size and thickness. Lay the puff paste upon the almond paste, press them lightly with the fingers, and cut them out together into shapes. Brush beaten egg over them, sprinkle powdered sugar upon them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Time, about twenty minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2d. each. Pasty, Forcemeat of {see Forcemeat of Pasty). Pasty of Fresh or Preserved Fruit. —A pasty is distinguished from a pie or a tart, because it has pastry both under and above the fruit. It may be baked either with or without a plate. When no dish is used, roll the pastry out thin, and stamp it into a small round shape, spread the jam, or slice the frixit, upon half the round, and turn the other half over it. Moisten the edges with a little water, press them securely together, and bake the pasties in a moderate oven. Sprinkle powdered sugar over before serving. Time to bake, according to size. A pasty made of fresh fruit will require baking a little longer than one made of jam. Pasty, Potato {see Potato Pasty, Modem). Pate Brisee {see Crust, Pate Brisee). Pate de Gibier, or Game Pat^. Su- perlative.—Bone four partridges, or if they are to be had, take two partridges and two grouse; variety is always acceptable in game pasty. Cut up a hare, and season it as well as the partridges with salt and cayenne. Put inside each of the partridges a good-sized truffle and a portion of forcemeat, prepared as follows : Mince finely and separately, and then mix thoroughly, one pound of calf's Uver, and the livers of the birds and the hare, all of which must be cooked apart; add three pounds of fat bacon. Season this mixture with salt, cayenne, and mixed savoury herbs, pound it in a mortar, and afterwards mix with it a pound and a half of truffles. Make some pastry, and mould it to the proper shape, according to the directions already given {see Paste for Raised Pies) ; cover the bottom of the pie with a layer of slices of fat bacon, place upon this half the hare and half the forcemeat, then put in the partridges, two with their breasts upwards and two with their breasts downwards, place the remainder of the hare and the forcemeat upon them, and cover tho whole with a good slice of bacon fat and two bay-leaves. Put the lid on the pie, ornament it prettily, and bake it in a good oven for four hours or more. When it has been drawn from the oven, and is almost cold, pour into it, through a hole made in the centre of the lid, a quarter of a pint of dissolved gravy-jeUy, which has been made by stewing the bones in water and mixing the stock with a little isin- glass or gelatine. Probable cost, varying with the price of the game. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Pat^ of Fish.—Boil and mash smoothly, with an ounce of butter and a spoonful of milk or cream to each pound, as many potatoes as will make a border about three inches high within the rim of the dish which it is intended to use; three pounds of potatoes will be suffi- cient for a moderate-sized dish. Raise this border, ornament it in any fanciful way, then brush it over with beaten egg, and put it in a hot oven until it is lightly browned. Have ready some hot crab, or some fish stewed in sauce, and when the potatoes are coloured put in the preparation, and serve very hot. To prepare the fish—Take two pounds of cold boiled fish, which has been picked care- fully from the bones and broken into small pieces, warm these in a pint of good white sauce, nicely flavoured and seasoned; stir it gently over the fire until the fish is hot, then turn the whole into the hollow in the centre of the potatoes. If no stock is at hand, the white sauce may be made as follows:—Simmer the bones of the fish, with a handful of parsley, an onion, stuck with one clove, half a blade of mace, and a pint of water, until the liquid i? reduced one-half; strain it, and mix with it four table-spoonfuls of thick cream, season with salt and cayenne, and thicken with a little flour and butter. It is then ready for the fish. To prepare the crab—Pick the meat from the shell, mix with it the eighth of its bulk in finely-grated bread-crumbs, and season with salt, cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg. Pound the mixture in a mortar, moisten with a little gravy, which has been thickened with flour and butter, add a table-spoonful of sherry, and stir the preparation over the fire until it is quite hot; squeeze the juice of a small lemon over it, and it is ready for use. Time to warm the fish in the sauce, until it is quite hot, with- out boiling. Probable cost, according to the nature of the fish. Sufficient for five or six persons. P^te of Foies Gras.—These pasties, 80 highly esteemed by epicures, are made at Stras- burg, and thence exported to various parts. They are prepared from the livers of geese, which have been tied down for three or four weeks to prevent them moving, and forcibly compelled to swallow, at intervals, a certain amount of fattening food. When they have become so fat that they would die in a short time, they are killed, and their livers, which have become very rich, fat, and pale during the process, are used for the above