RIC (m) mc fat. Serve with piqiiant sauce, and Kond Btewod mushrooms to tahlo on a separate dish. Time to fry, till lightly browned on both sides. I'robablo cost of veal, about Is. 2d. per pound. SulKcient, half a dozen small cutlets for three persona. Rice and Veal Soup {see Veal and llico Soup). Rice and Wheat Bread (ice Broad, Wheat and Uico). Rice, Andalusian.—This dish, which is one very commonly served in Spain and Portugal, is valued as a tonic during the heats of summer, and is also recommended as a preventative of intestinal indisposition: it is peculiar, but the taste for it is an easily acquired one. Warm in a saucepan half a pound of best olive-oil or fresh butter. Throw in half a pound of picked rice, and one pound or one pound and a half of veal or poultry flesh, cut into neat squares. Add haK a pint of tomato sauce, or three or four fresh tomatoes, one or two chopped onions, a table-spoonful of shrea parsley, a pinch of powdered saifron, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. In Spain a clove of garlic is always added. Stir these ingredients into the warm oil, and let them stew gently for ten minutes; pour over them a pint of stock or water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently imtil the rice has absorbed the liquor. Throw the whole into a heated strainer for a minute to drain of£ any oil that may be left, and pile the rice, which will be a bright yellow colour, upon a hot dish. Hold a red-hot shovel or salamander over the top for a minute or two to brown the surface, and send the dish to table with cut lemons, that each guest may squeeze a little juice over his plate. Time, half to three-quarters of an hour to simmer the rice. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice, Apple.—Boil four ounces of rice in milk, with sugar and lemon-peel chopped fine, till it becomes tender. Peel and core six apples, let them simmer in sugar and water with the juice of a lemon till they are so tender that a fork will easily pass through them; then take them off and let them drain. Make in the same syrup reduced, a marmalade with four apples, which is to be mixed with the rice, and the yolks of three eggs. Spread this marmalade on a baking-dish; place the six apples in it in such a manner that the hollow part will be uppermost and even with the rice; bake them in a moderate oven. The moment before serN-ing, fill the centre of the apples with apricot marmalade, or any other preserve you please. Or you may make the foundation entirely of apple mar- malade, filling the apples with preserves when you place them in the dish, and masking the whole with rice. Rice, Apples (Souflle of), in {sec Apples, Souflle of, in Kice). Rice, Apricots with {see Apricots with Rice). Rice Beer.—The practice of brewing beer from rice is rapidly coming into use in Ger- many. The beer is said to bo of a very clear palo colour, and of an extn-mely pleasant mild taste, foaming strongly, and yet retaining well its carbonic acid. Rice Biscuits.—Beat two ounces of fresh butter to a ciciun. Stir into this four ounces of ground rice and two table-spoonfuls of pow- dered loaf sugar. Moisten t)ie mixture with a wc'll-beaten (!gg, roll it out, and stamp it into small rounds with a i>iuitry-cutter. Put these on a baking-dish, and bake in a gentle oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Suf- ficient for a dozen small cakes. Probal)le cost, 6d. for this quantity. Rice Blancmange.—Soak three laurtl. leaves or the thin rind of half a lemon in a quart of milk till it is pleasantly flavoured, or, if pre- ferred, drop into the milk a few drops of almond or vanilla flavouring. Mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice smoothly with a portion of the milk, add the rest gradually, together with a slice of fresh butter and a little sugar, and put the whole into a saucepan. Stir it over the fire, and let it boil for about ten minutes, or until it leaves the sides of the pan; turn it into a damp mould, and let it stand in a cold place tilL it is set. Just before it is wanted, turn it upon a glass dish, ornament with bright- coloured jam, or place stewed fruit round it, and if liked, serve a little custard -with it. The appearance of this dish may be varied by put- ting it into five or six small cups instead of into one mould, placing a piece of candied fruit upon the top of each one whea turned out, and pouring custard round the whole. Time, about ten minutes to boil the rice. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of jam and custard. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Blancmange (another way).—See Blancmange, Rice. Rice Blancmange (a German recipe).— Take half a pound of groimd rice and boil it in a quart of milk or cream, adding sugar, lemon- peel, and a stick of cinnamon or a piece of vanilla. When the rice is well boiled take out the spice and lemon-peel; dip a basin or mould into cold water, and pour the rice into it. ^^^len the rice is quite cold, turn it out, and serve with a custard or fruit sauce poured over. Rice, Boiled.—Take a pound of good rice, and wash it well in two separate waters. ^^^len the water is boiling throw in the rico. When the rice is three-i)arts done, drain the water from it in a sieve. Butter the inside of a stcwpan, put the rice into it, close the lid tightly, and put the pan in a warm oven, or by the side of the fire, until the rice is perfectly tender. Prepared thus every grain will be distinct and beautifully white. Serve with curry' or with any other dish. Rice, Boiled (a la Carolina).—Take a suf- ficient quantity of rice, and pick it free from rough grains and foreign substances, then wash it quickly in cold water, and hurry it to the pot before "the grain is at all softened. Aa to the quantity of water to bo used in boiling, there an^ two " modes. One is to put in twice as much water as rice, and .illow it all to be