( 921. ;^prat3, place them upon it, and guniidh. tho lihh. w ith pirslcy and lemon. Serve as hot as pos- sible. Sometimes the sprats are dipped in egg .md bread-crumbs before being fried. Time to fry, two to three minutes. Sufficient for one or tv>-o persons. Sprats, IVied.—It has been said that if sprats were as scarce as smelts they would be as much esteenxed. Wash them clean, dry in a cloth, powder with flour or fine bread or bis- cuit-crumbs ; then fry in boiling grease, drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve very hot. Sprats, Pickled.—Take a quarter of a peck of sprats as fresh as they can be obtained. Clean them, cut ofi: the heads, and in doing so draw them and put them into strong brine for an hour. Drain and dry them, and put them in layers into a pickling jar. Between each layer sprinkle salt and saltpetre, and let this be also sprinkled under the first layer and over the hist. When the jar is full, press the fish down lightly, and cover the jar closely. The fish may be used in three or four months. The salt may bo mixed in the following proportions: —Half a pound of salt, half a pound of bay- salt, a table-spoonful of white sugar, an ounce of saltpetre, and a pinch of cochineal. Dry the salt, crush and pound it thoroughly, and mix it with the other ingredients, and it will be ready for use. When wanted, the pickled sprats may be fried in butter, and served on buttered toasts, or they may be freed from skin and bone, pounded to paste, and covered with clarified butter. Sprats, Pickled (another way).—Take a number of small sprats, cut off the heads, and wash the bodies well. Strew a quantity of salt over them, and let them lie in a pan all night. Take them out next day, and wipe them well. Then put in a stone jar, or in an ii-on saucepan, a quantity of vinegar in proportion to the quan- tity of sprats. If the vinegar is in a stone jar, put it into an oven to boil; if in an ii-on vessel, place it over the fire. Put into the vinegar a bunch of parsley-root, some tarragon leaves, a sprig of thyme, one of marjoram, an onion stuck with cloves, and four or five shallots. Let the vinegar boil with these herbs, then strain it into another stone jar, and let it get cold. Meanwhile, have ready some wide- mouthed pickle or anchovy bottles. Put a layer of sprats at the bottom of each bottle, then a bay-leaf, then a pinch of salt, a grain or two of allspice, and a few peppercorns; then another layer of sprats; and so on until the bottles are full. Then fill them with the vinegar when it is quite cold. Cork the bottles, put bladder over the corks, and sealing wax upon the bladder. In six months they will be fit for use. Smelts pickled in the same way are admirable. Sprats, Stewed.—Clean and wipe the sprats, cut off the heads, draw out *tho gut, and place them in even layers in a mode- rate-sized saucepan. Between each layer put a pinch of salt, three peppercorns, and three allspice. Barely cover the fish with vine- gar, and let them simmer very gently without boiling until done enough. Time to simmer, one hour. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per pound. Spring-Herbs Soup (excellent for puri- fying the blood).—Shred finely a handful o2 young dandelion-leaves, and the same quan- tity of chervil and purslain, together with five or six sorrel-leaves and two cabbage lettuces. Wash them well, then drain them, and steam them in a closely-covered saucepan with a little pepper and salt and an ounce of fresh butter. In ten minutes dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon them, and add a pint and a half of white stock. Let the soup simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and keep stirring it during aU the time. Strain into it half a pint of boiling milk, and add a tea-^spoonful of powdered white sugar. Put the yolks of two eggs into the soup-tureen. Boat them with a spoonful of the soup, which, though thoroughly hot, must not be quite boiling; add the rest of the soup gradually, and serve immediately. If pre- ferred, cream may be used instead of milk. Time, about an hour, exclusive of the time consumed in preparing the stock. Sufficient for four or five persons. Spring Salad.—Take young and freshly- cut spring vegetables, such as lettuces, young radishes, mustard and cress, and a few spring onions, if liked. If they are clean and free from insects, look them carefully over, and wipe them with a cloth, or if necessary plunge them into cold water for a moment, but on no account let them remain in it longer than is necessary to cleanse them. If they have been washed, dry them perfectly. The best way of doing this is to let them drain for a little time, then put a small quantity at a time into a dry napkin; shake this by the foui- comers till aU the moisture is expelled. The goodness of a salad depends to a great extent upon the vege- tables being perfectly dry. Tear them into small pieces with the hands; arrange them in the salad-bowl, so that the light and dark greens shall contrast prettily. Put the radishes and onions round, and garnish the dish with parsley or nastui-tium leaves, beetroot, hard- boiled egg, &c. Send any good salad-sauce {see Salad, Mayonnaise Sauce for) to table in a boat, and stir it briskly into the salad at the moment of serving. If it should be preferred, the salad-sauce may be dispensed with, and the salad prepared as foUows :—For a moderate- sized salad-bowl of salad, mix in the salad-spoon a spoonful of mustard, a spoonful of salt, and half a spoonful of pepper, and stir into these a table-spoonful of vinegar, and if liked a few drops of tarragon vinegar may be added. Work these lightly but thoroughly into the salad, then put in four table-spoonfuls of best lucca oil, and stir the salad again for a few minutes. Serve immediately. Spring Salad (another way).—The fol- lowing is an old-English spring salad of 1682 :— I' There is a sort of salad commonly gathered in the spring, consisting of divers young buds and sprouts both of trees and herbs, the "which being gathered discreetly with nothing but what is very young and tender, and so that no one thing exceed the other, but there may be a fine agreement in their relishing, so it will be very acceptable to many: Violets, small sprouts of bumet, young leaves of primroses and flowers,