SAIi SAIi ( 816) chopped raw truffles, continue boiling for two minutes longer; draw it back, and finish with a piece of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, and some chopped parsley. Pour this sauce over the salmon trout, and send it to table. Salmon, Wholesomeness of.—As is the case with other oUy fish, salmon is less digestible than white fish generally for those of weak stomachs. Like other articles of food, too, which contain oil, it should never be eaten in a state of decomposition. It may prove highly injiirious; indeed, death has been the result of partaking of pickled salmon which had become somewhat decomposed. As food, salmon, when in high perfection, is one of the most nutritive and delicious of our fish; but as it is very oily it is rather heating, and with some persons not very digestible ; with most constitutions it requires the addition of condiments, as cayenne pepper and vinegar. It is thought by some that the addition of shrimp, lobster, and other Irich sauces, with which it is usually eaten, increases its indigestibility; but there does not appear to be any distinct know- ledge on this subject, so much depending upon peculiarity of constitution. It requires to be very well boiled, otherwise it is unwholesome; and when in the best condition and season it has a fine curdy matter between the flakes, which is a proof of its perfection, and the flavour is then very much superior; but this is seldom seen except near to the places where it is caught, as it melts away in keeping. Salmon with Caper Sauce.—Take several slices of fresh salmon, and let them marinade five or six hours in oil, salt, pepper, parsley, chives, and shallots, chopped fiiie; wrap the slices of fish in paper with all the marinade, and broU them; take them out of the paper, and send to table with caper sauce. Salmon with Matelot Sauce.—Make a marinade, in which stew the salmon. When it is done, pick o£E the scales carefully. Pour the marinade over the salmon to keep it hot. Then make a matelot sauce in the following manner:—Put a good bit of butter and two spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and make a roux. When it begins to colour, throw four or six onions into the roux, and let them melt; keep stirring with a wooden spoon. Then moisten with a bottle of red wine; add a few spoonfuls of the marinade in which you have stewed the salmon, some trimmings of mush- rooms, a bunch of parsley and green onions well seasoned, and a small piece of glaze; season the whole, and put a little sugar to correct the acidity of the wine; skim the grease, and keep the sauce thick. In case it should not be thick enough to mask with, add a small bit of butter Kneaded with flour, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, some essence of anchovies, the juice of a iemon, and some salt and pepper. Drain the fish, and cover it with the sauce, after having strained it through a tamis. Saloop, Decoction of. — Saloop is highly valued for its stimulating and nutritious properties, and a decoction may be made from it, which will form a beverage to be drunk as a substitute for beer or wine at meal-times. Procure the saloop in powder. Boil sugar and water to a thin syrup, and flavour this slightly with lemon-rind. Add a spoonful of the pow- der rubbed to as mooth paste with a little cold water, stir this into the syrup, boil aU together for a few minutes, let the liquor get cold, and serve. A little light wine may be added or not. Saloop is sometimes boiled with milk instead of water. Time to prepare, half an hour. Saloop, Milk {see Milk Saloop). Saloop or Salep.—The preparation known under this xiame consists chiefly of starch. It is obtained from the roots of the common male orchis [Orchis mascula). When boiled it constitutes an agreeable article of diet, and was commonly used in this country before the introduction of tea and coffee. Sassafras chips were frequently introduced into the de- coction for the purpose of giving it a flavour. The roots of the Orchis maculata also yield an inferior sort of salep. Although now almost entirely in disuse in this country, it is stiU em- ployed in Turkey and the East. The salep im- ported from India is in white oval pieces, hard, clear, and pellucid, ^vithout smell, and tasting like tragacanth. It is a light, bland, and nutritious article of diet. Salep is more nutritive than either arrowroot or sago, and consequently is better adapted for the con- valescent than the sick. Saloop Soup (Invalid Cookeky).—The following German^ recipe is given in the "Handbook of Foreign Cookery" of Amelia von JKochheim:—"Into a quart of good beef bouillon stir a table-spoonful of salep mixed in a little cold water; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it begins to thicken. It may be made also with wine or water instead of broth, in which case sugar, lemon, or sweetmeat may be stirred in. This soup is not only nourishing for weak persons, but is particularly recom- mended for children. A tea-spoonful of salep mixed in a little water, and a cupful of boiling milk or broth poured over it, should be given to a chUd daily when first weaned: it wiU be found to strengthen it greatly." Saloop. To Prepare.—Take a dessert- spoonful of the powder of saloop, and add it to a pint of boiling water. Keep stirring till the preparation becomes of the consistence of jelly, then add white wine and sugar to taste. Saloop, To Prepare (another way).— The preparation of saloop has been described in the "Philosophical Transactions" of the Royal Society. A Mr. Moult, making a com- munication to that Royal Society, says: "I send you my method of curing the common orchis root of our own country so as perfectly to resemble what comes to us from Turkey. The best time to gather the roots is when the seed is forming, and the stalk going to fall; for then the new bulb, of which the salep is made, is arrived to its fuU size, and may be known from the old one, whose strength is then spent by the preceding germination, by a white bud rising from the top of it, which is the germ of the plant of the succeeding yoar. This new root, being separated fi-om the stalk,