SAL ( 822 ) SAL enmW quantity, so far from prevonting, pro- moted putrefaction. From this fact, tho Kuga- cious physician conchulod tliat, un wu use salt at tiihio in siiiall (juautitius only, its use is to help digostioii by its septic power, tho moat being thus softened and disaolved. It is not a matter of indilferenco what kind of salt is employed for curing meat and lisli. Bay-salt is preferred. This is in large crystals —it is obtained by spontaneous evaporation of salt water. The superiority of Dutch cured herrings has been ascribed to tho use of bay- salt. Moat-salters prefer this coarse-grained and evidently impure quality ; and perhaps this very impurity adds to its antiseptic power. Dilferent kinds of salt seem also to diifer in their degree of saltness, as one sugar is sweeter than another. Tho crystals of salt which may be picked from a bottle of real Gorgona ancho- vies is most intensely saline, and the peculiar flavour of this favourite fish seems to be greatly aided by the piquancy of the salt. The fine- grained salt of Cheshire, commonly used in London, penetrates much sooner; and meat salted in London has more taste of the salt in four days than it acquires in Dublin in a week, on account of the coarse grain of the salt manufactured in the latter place. The best mode of salting meat for long keeping is perhaps the following:—For this purpose the meat ought to be of the best pos- sible quality, for as the natural effect of the process is to deteriorate the meat, unless it was originally excellent, a sufiiciently good quality to render it agreeable will not remain. The main object to be kept in view ought to be to extract as much of the animal moisture as possible with the least possible quantity of salt, and therefore with the least injury to the soft- ness of the fibre. To effect this object with beef, select the meat perfectly free from taint; let all the kernels be cut out; sprinkle it all over with fine salt; laj'' it on an inclined plane for about six hours, so that its juices, which the salt will separate and dissolve in, may as much as possible drain off. Let it be be then wiped, well rubbed with baj'^-salt, and placed between two strong boards, with a very heavy weight on the upper one. The combined action of the salt and pressure will cause the extrusion of more juices. In twenty-four hours, let the meat be wiped and rubbed again, and laid under the pressing boards. The same wiping, salting, and pressing are to be re- peated in twenty-four hours more. In this way, the weight being added to every day, the meat may be kept till it is salt enough for the purpose. The time will be shorter or longer, according to the fancy of the consumer; but if the meat is to be kept for store, it must not be left exposed to the air between the boards more than a few days. After being removed from the pressing boards, the pieces must be packed closely in a perfectly tight cask, with salt between and around. Instead of using salt alone, it may be mixed with one-eighth of its weight of saltpetre, to redden tho meat. If there be any advantage in sugar for preventing hardness, the quantity ought to bo larger than what is usually employed; for, as already ob- servedjU sniull quantity promotes putrefaction: the sugar ought not to be under one-third of the weight ol the salt. M. Ude, in liis direc- tions fur iiiakiiig haiiiH, employs equal weights of Bugav and salt; and others use twice as much sugar as salt. In the Journal des ConnaissanccH UntMlles, the following mode of making mutton liams in given, and it niiglit, jjcrluips, be followed with great advantage as a general process for pre- serving meat:—The mutton must be fat. Two ounces of sugar must be mixed with one ounc»; of common salt and half a spoonful of salt- petre. The meat is to be rubbed with this, and then pkced in a tureen. It must be beaUin and turned twice a day during three consecu- tive days, and the scum which ajmes from the meat having been taken oft', it is to be wiped, and again rubbed with the mixture of sugar, salt, and saltpetre, in the same proportions as before. The next day it should be again beaten, and the two operations ought to be repeated alternately during ten days, care being taken to turn the meat each time. It must be exposed to smoke for ten days. Hams thus prepared are generally eaten cold. There can be little doubt that this mode of preserving, if applied generally, would be foimd an excel- lent one; and it will be readily admitted that any process which preserves meat with so small a quantity of salt is valuable. It is a common opinion that salting greatly impairs the nutritiveness of meat; and in proof the fact is adduced that all the juices of the flesh run out and form brine. I believe that the nutritive qualities are scarcely impaired by a few days' salting, notwithstanding the great quantity of gravy-like juice which pours out. But there can be little doubt that the action of long-continued salt is to corrugate and harden the fibre, to render it somewhat less easily digestible, and probably to lessen its nutritiveness. All meats are not rendered equally salt or hard by exposure to the action of salt during the same time. Pork becomes much less salt than beef. For a comparison, I caused a lap of pork and a lap of beef to be salted as nearly as possible in the same ma,nner. They were kept for three months, at the end of which time the pork was just as it ought to be, but the beef was, to my taste, uneatable: it had taken up so much of the salt. It is on this account that pork is preferred for long voyages: it takes up less salt than other meats, and with that smaller portion it keeps as well. I believe there is another reason. Pigs that are pur- chased for sea-store are never fed with the same care, abundance, and cleanHness as those intended for home consumption: bad feeding, filth, and ill-usage are highly detrimental to pigs, their flesh proves soft, rank, and less agreeable. But such pork is liable to a much greater objection—it is less wholesome; it is apt for a few hours to more or less derange the digestive organs, and to produce considerable disturbance in weakly constitutions. Such un- wholesome pork is greatly improved by being kept a month in salt; and that it may be totally cured of all noxious quality, the time should be extended to three months. Bad pork will often make tolerable bacon, but so far