( &70 ) PIK PIK ft ' sidtja.'' When tho length is twcnty-ono inches the greatest girth is four, and its weight five ounces and a half. Its oyo is largo for the size of the fish. A singular property of tho baek- hone is that Avheu boiled the colour becomes greon." Pike, Seasoned (German recipe).—Scale and wash a moderate-sized pike, take out tho gills, then pick the llesh off tho bono, leaving it entire. jNIince the flesh finely, and mix with it a little salt and cayenne, some grated nutmeg, and a chopped onion. Put it into a saucepan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a cup- ful of bread-crumbs, and stir tho mi.xture over tho fire until tho fish is cooked without being browned. Bind it together with beaten egg. It should be rather stiff than otherwise. Lay the bone of the pike in a thickly-buttered baking-dish. Cover with tho seasoned mince, and restore it as neai'ly as possible to its ori- ginal shape. Brush over with beaten egg, strew grated bread-crumbs over it, and lay upon it here and there little pieces of butter. Cover the head and tail with buttered paper, to keep them from browning before the rest of the fish is done, and bake in a moderate oven. Send brown easier, piquante, or Dutch sauce to table •with this dish. Time to bake, until the fish is lightly browned all over, say about half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or fi:ve persons. Pike, Stewed.—Clean and scale a pike weighing about four pounds, and cut it into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan. Put with it a shallot and a small onion chopped small, a table-spoonful of shred parsley, two cloves, and a little pepper and salt. Shake these ingre- dients over the fixe for five or six minutes, then pour over them half a pint of stock or water, a glassful of claret, and a glassful of vinegar. Lay the fish in the stewpan, cover closely, and let it simmer until done enough. Take it up, and lay it on a hot dish. Thicken the sauce ■with a little flour and butter, stir into it a table- spoonful of bruised capers, let it boil a minute, and pour it over the fish. Time, altogether, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, xmcertain. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pike, Stewed in Gravy—Wash and cleanse a pike, and lard it thickly with bacon. Put it in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, and with slices of veal and bacon under and over it, cover closely, and let it steam gently for a quarter of an hour. Pour upon it half a pint of gravy and a glass of wine, and let it simmer until done enough.- Serve on a hot dish, with the gravy in which the fish was stewed poured around it. Time to stew, thirty to forty minutes, according to size. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pike, Stuflang for.-Take asmanyfinely- gratcd bread-crumbs as wiU fill the body of the pike two-thirds full. Make up the other third with finely-shred bccf-suet, and add a hberal seasoning of pepper and salt, two table-spoon- fIlls of chopped parsley, the rind of half a.lcmon %elv-minced, and a tea-spoonful of fennel and chervil. Moisten the mixture with the yolka of one or two eggs. Wlien mushrooms aie in season, half a dozen button-muslu-ooms juny be minced and added to the rest. Or beard and mince a dozen oysters. lUx witli tliera four ounces of finely-grated broad-crumbs, tliree ounces of slirod suet, a dessert-spoonful of minced savoury lierbs, and a little salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Moisten the whole with the yolk of an egg and the liquor fioni the oysters, and mix tlie ingredients tUl tliey form a smootli paste. Tlie body of tlie pike should bo (Wiped diy with a soft cloth before the stup- ing is put into it, and it sliould then be sewed up securely with soft cotton. When a larger quantity of stufiing has been made thun is re- quired to fill the fish, it may be made into cakes, which should be fried in butter, and used foi garnishing. Pike, To Cook.—Wash and cleanse thoroughly two fish, each weigliing from six to eight pounds; scale and empty them; di ssect out the flesh and bone, leaving the head and tail attached to the skin. Pick ofl: the flesh from the bodies of the fish, avoiding all the small forked bones, which are exceedingly numerous. This being done, beat the separated flesh in a mortar along with three anchovies, the yolks of four eggs, and a pound of butter; add a good quantity of chopped parsley, a few sweet herbs, minced shallots, black pepper, and salt, and form the whole into a mass with white and yolk of egg. Place this in the skin of one of the fish, and sew it up neatly. Piick the skin with a sharp fork in a few places, and roast till done before a brisk fu-e. Put into the dripping-pan a i)int or a pint and a half of cider, w-ith which the fish is to be fi-equently basted. What remains wdU, with the additiou of a little cayenne, be the proper sauce for the fish. Time, one hour to roast before the fij.-e. Pike, White Sauce for.—l^rclt one ounce oS butter and mix smoothly with it a dessert- spoonful of flour. Stir in gradually half a pint of water and let the sauce boil. Add off tho fire the well-beaten yolks of two fresh eggs with salt and cayenne to season it pleasantly. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire imtil it is quite hot without boiling, add a few drops of lemon juice, if liked, and serve. Probable cost, 6d. Suffi- cient foi four or five persons. Pike with. Sour-Kraut.-Cleanse and scale a good-sized pike, and cut the flesh into neat fillets. Dry these well, flour thorn, dip them into beaten egg and seasoned bread- crumbs, and frj^ in hot butter until they are brightlv browned. Butter a dish thickly. Put on it a laver of boiled Icraut, grate some cheese over this, then put a layer of the fried pike with a little sour cream, then kraut again, and repeat until the dish is fuU. Lay little pieces of butter here and there upon the top, cover the whole with fincly-gi-ated bread- crumbs, and pour in a small quantity of stock. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve very liot. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, uncertain.