BUS ( 781 ) BUS not touch each other, flatten them a little with your hand, and prove them ; when they are near proof, prick them several times along the top with a fork or small piece of wire, which will prevent the top crust or rind coming off; bake them in a moderate oven. When they are a day or two old cut them crossway into thin slices with a sharp knife, lay them on clean tins close to each other, and put them in a brisk oven; when they are nicely coloured take them out, turn them on the other side, put them in again, and when coloured they are done. Dr. Franklin remarks, in his maritime observations, that this is the true onginal biscuit, so prepared to keep for sea, being twice baked, as its name imports. Rusks, Bread, for Breakfast.—Take some hot roUs, tear them in halves, and put them in a moderate oven to crisp and brown. Serve with cocoa. Busks made with Sour Cream.—Rub five ounces of butter into a pound of flour till it is as fine as oatmeal. Add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and two ounces of candied peel finely shred. Work this into a smooth lithe dough with two well- beaten eggs and a little more than half a pint of thick sour cream. At the last moment before baking the cakes add half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda mixed with a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar and a tea-spoonful of flour. Divide the dough into two or three cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is done enough, take it out of the oven, tear it in halves, and put it back again to crisp. Of course the cream must not be in the least putrid when it is used. Time to bake, forty to fifty minutes. Busks, Plain.—Cut loaves of bread into slices, and bake them in a slow oven to the proper colour. Busks, bweet.—Take a stale Savoy cake, lemon cake, or pound cake, cut it into slices, and divide these into pieces about two inches square. Place these on a baking-tin, and put them into a cool oven to dry. When they are crisp and brown they are done enough. Store in a tin bo.x in a dry place. Busks, Tea.—Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of saleratus and a tea-spoonful of salt in a spoonful of hot water. Stir in this with a pint of warm milk and half a quarter of a pint of brewer's yeast. Put the liquor into a bowl, and stir into it as much fine flour as will make a soft lithe dough. Knead this thoroughly, cover the bowl with a cloth, and put it in a warm place to rise. It will be light in a couple of hours. Work into the dough two table-spoonfuls of sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter dissolved, but not hot. Flour the hands thoroughly, and make the dough up into small cakes the size of an orange, lay those side by side in a buttered pan, brush the tops over with milk, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. Time to bake, half an hour. . Busks with Jam.—Pour a pint of boil- ing milk —sweetenod and flavoured—over five or eix rusks in a pio-dish. Let them soak for ten minutes, then beat them lightly with a fork, and spread upon them a layer of good jam. Pour upon this some custard made with a pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs, and a little sugar and flavouring. Leave the preparation till cold, sift powdered sugar over it, or lay upon it the whites of the eggs beaten to foam, and serve. Time, three quarters of an hour to prepare. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bussian Cabbage Soup.—This ancient Russian national dish—known as schntchi—en- joys an immense reputation. There are many ways of preparing it. The following is one of the best known:—Take six or eight white cabbages shredded, half a pound of pearl bar- ley, a quarter of a pound of butter, a handful of salt, and two pounds of mutton cut into small pieces, with two quarts of Kvas or broth. The meat, salted for thirty-six hoiu's, is put into a press, cut in small pieces, and not thrown into the pot till the cabbage has boiled. Some artichokes cut into four are added, and when the whole is dished three spoonfuls of thick cream are poured over it. The soup is some- times made with oil instead of butter, and with fish instead of meat, usually during the fasts. Bussian Cakes.—Make a batter by whisking together the yoUcs of five eggs and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar. Add gi'adually three ounces of dried flour, two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds, a drachm of aniseed, and,lastly, the whites of the eggsbeaten to a firm froth. Bake the batter in strong paper cases nearly a foot long and a quarter of a foot wide and deep. When they are suf- ficiently baked, let them get cold, then cut them into thin slices, and put them again into the oven till they are crisp. Bussian Charlotte.—Trim off the ends of eighteen or twenty Savoy biscuits perfectly straight, line the sides of a straight dry mould with them, and take care to join them perfectly, so that the contents of the charlotte cannot escape, then ornament the bottom of the mould with dried fruit or strips of angelica. Soak a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, and dissolve it in a quarter of a pint of milk. Whilst it is cooling whip half a pint of double cream till it is thick. Mix with it a spoonful of sugar, a few drops of flavouring, and the melted gelaWne. Put the mixture into the mould, a small quantity at a time, and let it re- mam in ice until it is firm. When it is wanted, turn it out carefully upon a glass dish, and serve. If the mould cannot easily be turned out, plunge it into hot water for a moment Probable cost, 28. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Bussian Charlotte (another way).— Take some biscuits a la cuillere. These are made the same as sponge biscuits. Instead of being baked in frames or in a form, they are made into thin cakes about two inches wide and four or five long; they are then baked on wafer-paper, the top being glazed with sugar sifted through a tamis. They should be baked m a very moderate oven. Line a form at the sides and bottom with them, placing