BAB RAB ( 691 ) O"-", and ornament prettily. Bake in a mode- i-ate oven until it is done enough, that is until a skewer wU pierce to the bottom of it easily. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, about an houi- and a half. Probable cost, 33. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Rabbit Pie, Superior.—Cut a young rabbit into neat joints, and lay these in luke- warm water for half an hour, then drain and diy them. Make a quarter of a pound of veal forcemeat into small balls the size of a nutmeg, and lay them aside tiU wanted. If liked the livers of the rabbits may be boiled, minced, and mixed with the forcemeat. Boil three eggs hard, and cut them info quarters lengthwise. Cut half a pound of streaky bacon into strips, and three-quarters of a pound of lean veal into neat pieces an inch square. Make a savoury powder with the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, the thin rind of half a lemon grated or minced very finely, a pinch of cayenne, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of pepper. Line the edges of a pic-dish with good pufE paste. Put the veal into the pie, then the rabbit, and lastly the bacon, intersperse the con- tents of the pie with the forcemeat balls and the hard-boiled eggs, and season each layer as it is placed in the dish with the savoury powder. Moisten the whole with stock or water, but do not entirely cover the meat. Wet the edges of the pastry, lay on the cover, trim and ornament it neatly, brush over with egg, and make a slit in the centre with a knife through which the steam can escape. Bake in a moderate oven, and cover the i)ie with buttered paper whilst it is baking, for fear the crust should be burnt. Serve either hot or cold. Two or three sliced truffles or half a dozen mushrooms may be added to the pie if liked, and a glassful of port may be mixed with some good gravy, and poured into the pie through the hole in the top after it is taken out of the oven. If preferred the forcemeat balls instead of being made of veal forcemeat may be made of the livers of the rabbits, parboiled, minced, and beaten in a mortar with six or eight oysters, a spoonful of bread-crumbs-, a seasoning of salt, cayenne, and powdered mace, a pinch of savoury herbs, and the raw yolk of an egg. Time to bake, fuUy two hours. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rabbit, Pilau of.—Skin, wash, and empty a fat young rabbit, and cut it up into ten or twelve pieces. Rub each one of these with a savoury mixture made by mixing the juice of two large onions with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, and the juice of a lemon. The onion juice may be obtained by bruising the onions, and draining off the juice. Boil a pound of rice in a quart of stock broth till it is half dressed. Whilst it is simmering melt four ounces of good fat or butter in a saucepan, and in this fry the pieces of rabbit till thoy are lightly broAvncd, and also two sliced onions. Put the moat into a deep oarthon jar. Lay the onions upon it, and cover with the rice. Add four cloves eight peppercorns, a pinch of salt, and one or two inches of thin lemon rind, and pour half a pint of milk over the whole. Tie three or four folds of paper over the top of the jar, and bake in a moderate oven. If required, add a little broth or a little more milk when the rabbit is half done. When the rabbit is sufficiently dressed, pile the rice on a dish, place the pieces of rabbit upon it, and serve very hot. Time to bake, from an hour and a haK to two hours. Pro- bable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rabbit, Piquant.—Skin, draw, and tho- roughly cleanse a fresh young rabbit. Cut it open down all its length, lay it flat upon a table, and skewer it well to keep it in shape. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, and lay it in an oval pan just large enough to hold it, with five or six ounces of bacon fat, dripping, or butter. Fry it tiU it is three-parts dressed. Take it up, drain it, and let it cool, brush over with oiled butter, and egg and bread-crumb it twice. A little time before it is wanted, put it into a brisk oven, and bake until it is lightly browned. Serve on a hot dish, and send to table with a little piccalilli, or any other suit- able pickle and a sauce prepared as follows ;— Pound three shallots in a mortar, and with them a tea-spoonful of chopped tarragon, and a little pepper, salt, and unmixed mustard. Two or three gherkins, and a little chopped chervil and bur- net, may be added if they are at hand. Beat the raw yolk of an egg quite free from white in a basin, and when it begins to thicken stir in very gradually six table-spoonfuls of salad oil. The oil must be added first in drops, afterwards in tea-spoonfuls, and the sauce must be well beaten between every addition until it is very thick. . Stir in by degrees two table- spoonfuls of vinegar, one table-spoonful of Chili vinegar, and the pounded mixture, and beat it again. Keep the sauce in a cool place till wanted, and serve in a tureen. If tarragon-leaves cannot be had, a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar may be used instead. Time, ten minutes to fry a small rabbit; twenty minutes to bake it. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Rabbit, Potted.—Empty, skin, and wash two or tnree young fully-growii rabbits. Take off the legs, and pick all the meat from the back. Season with salt, cayenne, and mace, aU finely powdered, and pack the meat closely into a potting-jar. Lay upon it six ounces of fresh butter, and bake gently until done enough. Let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours, turn it into small jars, and cover with clarified butter. The livers can be put with the meat, if Hked. The meat can be served in the jars, or small portions can be cut out, laid on a napkin, and garnished with parsley. This is an excellent way of preserving rabbits Avhich are not wanted for immediate use. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Rabbit, Potted (another way).—Take off the legs and shoulders of the rabbits, and also the fleshy parts of the back. Cut off the leg- bones at the first joint, and the shoulder-bones at the blades, but without cutting off the moat. Take also the livers; season the limbs and