( 784 ) BYE SAO "does not seem to be regai-ded with much favour in England, as little ia grown hero, and the imported supplies are very scanty, compared with those of all other giuiu; yet,' from the positive amount of nutriment which it aifords, it stands next in value to wheat, and makes excellent bread in combination with wheat-meal or flour. It ferments easily, is considered by many persons as of pecu- liarly agreeable flavour (to others its sweet- ness is sometimes an objection) ; it keeps well, is wholesome, and economical also. The black bread of Germany and other parts of Europe is composed of rye only gi-ound into coarse meal, and fermented often by means of leaven (or dough left from a previous baking and become slightly sour), which is an un- favourable mode of fabricating it, because rye has a tendency to pass quickly into what is termed the acetous state of fermentation, and requires to be carefully watched and skilfully managed to prevent the bread made of it from acquiring an acid taste. When the /owr of rye is mixed with half or two-thirds as much of wheat-flour, the dough may be prepared in the ordinary manner, rather less time in warm weather being allowed for its rising." Rye-bread in Holland.—In Holland two sorts of rye-bread are eaten, the one hand- made, the other manufactured by machinery. The latter is preferred by the wealthier classes : it is of a dark colour, and has an odour not unUke gingerbread. The working classes, on the other hand, like hand-made rye-bread best, because it is whiter—a popular taste which finds its coun- terpart in this country. There is no real dif- ference in the quality of the rye, but there is in the baking, the hand-made bread being left in the oven for twenty-four hours, while the machine-made is left for twice that time. Rye Drop Cakes.—Mix together a quart of milk, two eggs well beaten, a piece of butter as large as an egg, one tea-spoonful of soda, two tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, half a cupful of white sugar, and enough rye-meal to make a thick batter. Bake for half an hour. Rye-meal Mush, (an American recipe).— Stir fresh-ground rye gradually into boiling water into which a Uttle salt has been thrown. Let the preparation boil for about an hour. Rye, Nutritive Properties of.—Rye and barley resemble the grain of wheat very much in composition and nutritive quality. They differ from it somewhat in flavour and colour, and do not make so fair and spongy a bread. They are not generally preferred, there- fore, in countries where wheat and other grains thrive and ripen. Two samples of newly-baked wheat and rye bread, made and examined under the same circumstances, were foimd to consist respectively of— Wheaten bread. Rye bread. Water .... 48 48* Gluten .... 5} Starch, &c. . . . 46j 46J 100 100 So that in composition and nutritive quality these two kinds of bread very closely resembled each other, and, except aa concemfl our taste, it IS a matter of indifference whether we live'on the one or the other. Rye bread possesses one quality which is in some respects a valuable one : it retains its freshness and moisture for a longer time than wheaten bread, and can bo kei)t for months without becoming hard, dry, and unpalatable. This arises principally from certain peculiar properties possessed by the variety of gluten which exists in the grain of rye. Rye, Wholesomeness of.—In those unaccustomed to its use, rye is apt to cause an acescent state of the stomach and diairhfjca. The grain is liable to a disease called ergot, which depends on a fungus which attacks and alters the character of the grain. Ergotted or spurred rye is poisonous when it is baked into bread. It causes febrile symptoms, great debility, often paralysis, tumours, abscesses, gangrene, and death. Some of the epidemics which have occasionally nearly depopulated the north of Europe have been traced to the use of the spurred rye. s Sabotiere.—" An apparatus for making ices: it is composed of two principal parts—a pail, which is indented towards the top and covered, and the sabotiere, or inner vessel, slightly conical, which is inserted in the pail, on which it rests by a projecting border or rim; this vessel is closed at the bottom Uke a cup, and open at the top to admit the creams to be iced. The freezing mix- ture is turned into the pail, and the creams to be iced into the inner vessel; its cover is then fastened by the hook, and the vessel is set into the pail among the freezing liquid; then taking the whole by the handle of the sabotiere, an alternate motion of rotation is given to it for about a quarter of an hour, when the cream is sufiiciently frozen." Sack.—The term sack is a corruption of "sec," signifying dry, and was applied in old times to wines made from half-dried grapes. The sack of Shakespeare's day is supposed to have been what we now call sherry. Sack posset was a beverage highly esteemed 300 or 400 years ago, and as some of our readers may like to taste it, we give below a few recipes for its manufacture. Sack Cream.—Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix with them gradually half a pint of cream and half a pint of lukewarm milk. Add a little sugar, a flavouring of grated lemon- rind, and a glassful of sherrj'. Stir the cream over the fire till it begins to thicken, and be very careful that it does not curdle. Serve it in custard-glasses, with a little powdered cinnamon sprinkled over the top. Send rata- fias or other sweet biscuits to table with the cream. Time, five or six minutes to beat the cream. Probable cost, exclusive of the sherry, Is. 4d. Sufiicient for five or six glasses. Sack Posset (Sir Walter Raleigh's recipe). —Boil together half a pint of sherrv' and half a pint of ale, and add gradually a quart of boiling