( 1013 ) TUR it from France, through a first-class poulterer, ready fattened, stuffed with truffles, and ready for the spit. It will be all the better for the winter's journey, asbiids so stuffed are always kept for several days after to allow the per- fume of the truffles to penetrate the flesh. The cost of a turkey thus prepared will vary from one to five guineas, exclusive of the carriage. When once obtained, a truffled turkey is easily dressed, as it simply requires to be roasted, plentifully basted, and served with its own gravy only, for though bread sauce and onion sauce aie occasionally served with it, properly speaking no rival flavour ought to approach the truffle. Fine fresh truffles are, however, so expensive, that mushrooms or chestnuts are often substituted for them, pounded with bacon in exactly the same way, and a turkey thus prepared will prove to most people quite as acceptable as if really truffled. When it is preferred, however, that the turkey should be stuffed with truffles at home, procure a young, pliunp, freshly-killed hen turkey. Take a pound and a half of truffles for a moderate-sized bird, and two pounds for a large one. Smell them, and reject any that are mouldy. Wash them carefully, and scrub with a soft brush till not a particle of earth or grit remains upon them. Cut about a pound of the truffles into balls an inch and a half in diameter. Pound the rest with the trimmings to a smooth paste, adding an equal weight of fat bacon. The bacon should be rasped and pounded separately, then mixed with the pounded truffles, and the forcemeat seasoned with salt and pepper only. When the force- meat is quite smooth mix the \\'hole truffles ■with it, and put the preparation into the body of the turkey. Let it hang for five or six days after it is stuffed, and when it is to be roasted, lay a slice of fat bacon upon the breast, and a piece of buttered paper over that, and baste liberally whilst it is before the fire. If it is wished that truffle sauce should accompany this dish, a few truffles may be put aside for the purpose. Truffle sauce is made as follows:—Mince four truffles finely, put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and shake them over the fire for ten minutes. Add half a pint of brovra sauce, a little pepper and salt, and a glassful I of sherry; let these ingredients simmer for a quarter of an hour, skim off the fat, and serve. Time, roast the turkey the usual time. Turkey Truflaed Economically.— Take a freshly-killed phimp young turkey. If large, half a pound of fine fresh truffles will be required for it, if small, a quarter or a third of a pound will be sufficient. Wash and scrub the truffles carefully as in the preceding recipe, drain and dry them, and cut them into thin slices with- out peeling them. Boil or roast some fine sound chestnuts; the quantity must be regulated by the size of the turkey, There must be sufficient with the truffles to fill the body of the bird. Before boiling them, make a little cut in the outer skin of each nut to keep it from bursting. When all are done, throw them into slightly- saltfd water, and let them boil quickly until tender: they will take from half an hour to an hour. Skin them, mix the sliced truffles with them; then fill the body of the bird with the mixture, and let the turkey hang for two or three days in a cool airy situation. On the day that it is to be dressed fill the crop of the bird with good veal forcemeat, truss it firmly, tie a buttered paper over the breast, and roast it before a clear fire. Hang it at first some distance from it, and baste liberally. A turkey prepared as above will be sufficiently flavoured with truffles to satisfy most people, indeed, all but those who are excessively fond of truffles. If liked, bread sauce or onion sauce may be sent to table with this dish, .but generally a truffled turkey is served with its own gravy only. Time, an hour and a half to two hom-s and a half, according to size. Turkey Trussed for Boiling.—Pluck, singe, and draw the bird, and be particularly careful not to break the gall-bladder, which ad- heres to the liver, for if any of the gall touches the bird it will impart a bitter taste to it. Cut off the head and neck, and leave sufficient skin to turn and sew over the back. After the force- meat is put into the breast, cut off the legs at the first joint, draw the upper legs into the body, and make a slit for the stumps to go in. Break and flatten the breast-bone, and also break the back-bone, that the bird may lie flat on the dish. Truss firmly, to make it look as plump and round as possible. Tui-n the pinions with the points over the back, and fasten liver (freed from gall) under one pinion, and the gizzard (washed and skinned) under the other. Skewer the apron over the nose, and pass string firmly round the body, fasten it to the skewers, and tie it ia the middle of the back. Turkey Trussed for Roasting.— Pluck and singe the bird, and in drawing it preserve the liver and gizzard. Be particularly careful not to break the gall-bag, which adheres to the liver, as if any of the gall touches the bird no amount of washing will remove the bitter taste which it wiU impart. Cut off the feet, and draw out the strings or sinews from the thighs—there are five or six in each leg. Place three or four folds of cloth on the high breast-bone, and break and fiatten it with a rolHng-pin to make the bird look plump. Cut off the head and neck close to the body, and before doing so push back the skin of the neck so that sufficient may be left on to turn over the back. Hold the legs in boiling water for a minute or two, and afterwards peel off the rough dirty skin. Fill the breast with forcemeat, and sew the neck over the back. Press the legs close to the breast, and pass a skewer through them and the body. Turn the points of the wings over the back, skewer them through the body, and put the liver under one pinion and the gizzard under the other. Cut a slit in the apron, and put the nose through. Pass a string over the back of the bird, put it firmly round the skewers, and tie it in the middle. Tie a buttered paper over the breast, and be very careful to truss the bird firmly. The liver of the turkey must be freed from gaU and covered with a buttered paper, or it'will be dry and hard. _ The gizzard must be carefully cleansed—as it contains stones—skinned an"d washed, seasoned with pepper and salt, and,