(851 ) 8EM SHA Semolina Pudding, Steamed.—Take a nint of inilk, and fiavom- it with pounded bitter almonds. Strain, and put it into a saucepan, and mix vith it three ounces of semolina, six or eight nitafias, a pinch of salt, three table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a good slice of butter. .Stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens j and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Pour it out, let it cool, and stir briskly into it six well- whisked eggs. Butter a plain mould rather thickly, fill it with the preparation, cover it closely, and steam until done enough. Let it stand two or three minutes. Turn the pudding out carefully, pour stewed fruit or sweet sauce round it, and send a little more to table on a separate dish. The saucepan must be closely covered, and a continuous supply of steam kept round the pudding, that it may be thoroughly cooked. Time to steam, one hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Semolina Soup.—Take any kind of nicely-flavoui-ed stock, and let it boil. Drop into it as much semolina as will thicken it, and keep stirring for fear it should burn. Let it simmer gently until done enough, and serve verj' hot. Time to simmer, ten minutes. From one to two ounces of semolina will thicken a quart of stock. Service Berries.—These are the fruit of the wild service-tree, very common in the hedges and fields of some parts of England. They are at present little known, but were in considerable use formerly. The country people in some places gather the bunches of beiTies, and hang them up in the air till they undergo an incipient putrefaction, in which state they possess a peculiar acid, astringent taste, and are considered as having cathartic properties. When mellowed by frost they have been used as food. Seville Orang'e.—The Seville orange is of the same species as the sweet orange, but so bitter in taste that it is unfit to eat in its raw state. It is chiefly used for making marmalade {see Orange Marmalade) and wine, and the rind is used for flavouring purposes. It seldom comes into the market before the end of February. Seville Orange Cakes. — Divide the oranges in halves, and take out the pips, of which there are a good many small ones. Scrape the pulp and juice into a bowl, and boil the rinds until they are so tender that a fork will pierce them easily. Dry them, and weigh them, and allow two pounds of powdered sugar to one pound of orange-rind. Pound them to paste in a mortar, and add, very gradually, the juice, the pulp, and the powdered sugar. Mix all together, and when the pre- paration is thick and yellow, drop it upon tins, and dry these in a cool oven. Time, about two hours to boil the rind. Probable cost, Seville oranges, Is. per dozen when plentiful. SevUle Orange Cardinal.—A few days before the cardinal is wanted peel three bitter oranges, slice them very thin, and pour a bottle of wine over them; then strain the preparation through a tamis, and add to the juice two bottles of wine and two or three pounds of sugar : keep sturing all the time till the sugar is completely melted. Seville Orange Cordial "Water.— Take one handful of young green fir-tree tops, two handfuls of watercresses, the same of scurvy-grass, one pound of burdock roots scraped and sliced, the tliin rinds of twelve Seville oranges, the juice of the same, and five gallons of newly-brewed ale-wort. Beat the herbs in a mortar, and infuse all while the wort is fermenting with the yeast. When done working, stop it up, and drink occasionally when fine. Seville Orange Paste {see Orange, Seville, Paste for Dessert). Shad.—Shad is a salt-water fish, not very highly esteemed. It is in season from the end of March till May, and may be broiled, fried, baked, boiled, or salted. When plentiful it is cheap, but it varies very much in price. The French value this fish highly. They often have it stewed in light wine, and served covered with bechamel. SHAD. Shad, Broiled.—No. l. Scale a fish, cut off its head, empty and wash it carefully, split it open down the sides of the backbone, and, if liked, divide each fiUet into pieces two or three inches wide. Wipe these pieces with a soft cloth, dip them in oil, and broil them gently until done enough. Remember to lay the inner part of the flesh to the fire first, and when one side is done turn it upon the other. Work j a tea-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of pepper into four ounces of butter with the ' point of a sharp knife. Lay the paste on a hot dish, and turn the broiled fish two or three times in it. Put the dish-cover over it, and keep it in a hot place till wanted. No. 2. Clean, empty, and dry a fish weighing about two pounds, and score it across the back. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, pour upon it as much oil as will cover it, and let it lie until it is well soaked. Broil it over a clear steady fire, and when one side is done turn it upon the other. Drain it, serve on a hot dish, and send oil and vinegar, or caper sauce, soiTel