( 1069 ) VEG VEG eonic good white sauco round them, and serve as hot as possible. Or after boiling, cut them into dice, and boil thorn up in some good white sauce. Time, about twenty minutes to boil the marrows. Sufficient for six persons. Probable cost of marrows, 2d. to Gd. each. Vegetable Marrow Marmalade.— Pare and seed any quantity of moderate- sized vegetable maiTows, and cut them into thin slices. Weigh them, and allow a pound of loaf sugar, the rind of half a small lemon chopped small, and a cupful of water to every pound of marrow. Boil the sugar and water to a clear syrup. Put in the marrow, and let it simmer gently for an hour and a half. Be careful that it does not burn. Strip the thick white skin from the lemons, slice them, take away the pips, mix these slices with the mar- malade, and let aU boil together for a quarter of an hour. Turn the marmalade into jars, and cover these in the usual way. An excellent imitation of pi'eserved ginger may be made with vegetable marrow (see Ginger, Preserved, Imitation of). Vegetable Marrow Preserve.—Peel the marrows, remove all the seeds, cut the mar- rows in pieces the size of large plums, boil them with their weight in sugar till the pieces become transparent. No water whatever is required. Then flavour with ginger and lemon, or ginger or lemon, according to taste. Vegetable Marrow, Preserved. — Peel the marrows, take away the seeds, and cut the vegetable into small pieces. To every pound of marrow add half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, the rind and juice of a lemon, and half an ounce of grated ginger. Put the whole into a basin, and let it stand aU night; next day poirr the juice into a pan, and let it boil; then add the vegetable. Boil all together for an hour and a half, or until it becomes thick and trans- parent. If prefeiTed it may be put into a mould, and the preserve will look very nice when tui-ned out for use. Most vegetables may be prepared in the same way. Vegetable Marrow Sauce, for Poul- try.—Pare and skin the marrows, and boil till tender; then rub them through a sieve. Season the pulp vrith salt and cayenne, and thicken either Avith stock or with cream. Serve the sauce very hot. Vegetable Marrow Soup.—Pare and cut in quarters a large vegetable marrow, and remove from it the seeds. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a stewpan, and put in the marrow with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a large lump of sugar. Shake it over the fire for a few minutes, and moisten with as much stock or water as will cover it. Lot it stew gently until tender, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put with it as much boiling stock as will make it of the consistency of thick gruel. Add a cupful of boiling cream or milk, and season with pepper and salt. Stir over the fire till quite hot, and serve with fried sippets. The stock may be made from bone; or the liquor in which mutton, real, or poultry has been boiled may bo used. Vegetable Marrow Soup (another way).—Boil five or six small vegetable mar- rows, peeled and cut into eight pieces, in a quart of good rich veal stock; put them into the boiling stock, and simmer gently three- quarters of an horn-. Then beat the pulp through a sieve, and return it with an addi- tionaf pint of stock, to be made hot together. Season with pepper and salt, and just before serving the soup, stir in a breakfast-cupful of cream, Avhich should be first made quite hot. Time, one hour. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Vegetable Marrow Soup (another ■way).—Take two pounds of vegetable man-ow peeled and cut into dice about an inch square; put it into a pan with three ounces of salt butter or fat, two tea-spoonfuls of sugar, the same of salt, a little pepper, and half a pint of water. Stew gently until it is quite soft. When in a pulp stir in well two table-spoonfuls of flour; then add three pints of new milk, or two pints of milk and one of cream, or three pints of stock—but do not mix the stock and milk. Boil for ten minutes, and serve with fried toast cut into small squares. Vegetable Marrow, Spring Soup of. —Pare the man-ows, remove the seeds, and cut them into small pieces; weigh, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter about the size of an egg, and stew gently until the marrow is reduced to a pulp. Add boiling stock, a little at a time, in the proportion of a pint of stock to a pound of maiTow, weighed before cooking. Add salt, a small lump of sugar, and cayenne, and serve with toasted sippets. Time, about half an hour to simmer the marrows. Probable cost, 4d. per pint. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed. — Peel thinly two moderate-sized marrows; then cut a thick piece ofE one end of each, and scoop out the seeds. Press closely into the hoUows some good pork sausage meat, or if preferred some nicely-seasoned minced beef or mutton. Tie the piece which was cut off into its original position with twine. If there should be any difficulty about scooping out the seeds, the maiTOws may be divided into halves length- ways, and filled with sausage meat, the pieces may then be pressed closely together, and tied in three or four places with twine. Having thus prepared the marrows, lay them in a saucepan, put a slice of butter upon each, and sprinkle over them a little pepper, salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Pour upon them half a pint of stock, and add a table-spoonful of vinegar. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the marrows as gently as possible for four hours. Baste frequently with the sauce. Lift them carefully upon a dish, skim the fat from the sauce, strain it over them, and serve. This dish may be rendered more piquant by rubbing a freshly-cut clove of garlic quickly across the saucepan before the marrows are put into it, and adding the juice of three or four ripe tomatoes pressed through muslin to the sauce. Time to stew the mar- rows, four hours. Probable cost, 2d. to 6d. each.