( 732 ) RHU RHtT Uuck^ rluiburb, paro it, cut it into two-inch loiigLas, and woigli it. Tlaco it on di.shcH in a «in,'i:lo layer, and over each pound sprinklo tlio R-ratod rind of ono lemon and one pound of powdered loaf sugar, l.et it nMiiain twonty- foiir hours. The next day boil lialf a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for ton minutes, pour into this the syrup from the rhubarb, boil it twenty minutes, and add as m\ ch grated ginger as will make it pluasiintly hot. Put in the pieces of rhubarb, and let them simmer gently until they are tender, without being broken, then lift thom 01'.. with a spoon one by ono, put them in jars, bui] the syrup five minutes longer, and pour it over thom. \Vhen cold, tie the jars down in the usual way, and store in a cool dry place. Time, two days. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. per pound. Rhubarb Mould. — Cut into small lengths as much young rhubarb as will fill a quart measure. Boil this with a pound of loaf sugar, eight bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, and the strained juice and grated rind of half a lemon, and stir it over a brisk fire till it is thick and smooth. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in two table-spoonfuls of boiling water, stir this into the fruit, and pour the whole into a mould which has been soaked in cold water for a time. Put it into a cool place, or upon ice, and when it is quite firni turn it out, and serve with Devonshire or other cream round it. Time to boil the rhubarb, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is., if made with gelatine. Rhubarb Pie.—Peel the rhubarb, and if it is very large divide it into two or three strips, and then into short lengths. Fill the dish as full as it will hold, sprinkle some sugar over it, add a small pinch of salt, and, if liked, mix with the fruit a flavouring of grated lemon- peel and ground ginger, or a little nutmeg, grated. Line the edges of the dish ^ath pastry, moisten' these with water, and lay a cover of pastry over all. Press the edges closely together and ornament them, then sprinkle a spoonful or two of cold water over the pie and dredge a little white sugar upon it; bake the pie in a well-heated oven until the pastry loosens from the dish. Serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, half an hour to one hour, according to size. Rhubarb Pudding.—Butter a basin which will hold a pint and a half, and line it with good suet crust rolled out to the thiclmess of half an inch. Fill it with rhubarb which haa been stewed for a quarter of an hour with a little moist sugar and the rind of half a lc>mon. Cover the pudding with pastry, rolled out to the same thickness as the sides, pinch tlio edges securely, tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil in plenty of water until done enougli. The water must not cease boiling. Turn the pudding out carefully, and cut a small opening in the top, that the steam may escape. Send sweetened melted butter or a jug of cream and sifted sugar to table with it. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, lod. Sufiicicnt for five or six per.son8. Rhubarb Sherbet (a wholesome and reir(mJung bevcrag*.).—Take as much young rhuljarb, winch has been cut into short lengths as will measuro half a pint. Boil this in a quart of water for twenty minutes, strain the liquor through muslin, and sweeten with five or six large lumps of sugar, which liiive hc.i-n rubbed ui)on the rind of a small lemon until the flavour has been extracted. Stir the sher- bet till the sugar is dissolved, and serve when quite cold. Probable cost, 2d. par pint. Suf- ficient for a quart of sherbet. Rhubarb Soup.—Take half a dozen sticks of fine young rhubarb, peel them, and cut them into short lengths. Throw these into a quart of good veal or beef stock, and add a moderate-sized onion, two thin slices of bread, and a little salt and pepper. Let the liquor boil, remove the scum as it rises, and simmer the soup gently until the fruit is quite tender. Strain it, and serve with toasted sippets. Time to simmer the soup, about half an hour. Suflicient for five or six persons. Rhubarb Soup, Sweet.—Boil half a pint of cut rhubarb in a quart of water, with the rind of haK a lemon and two or three thin slices of bread, till the liquor is pleasantly flavoured. Strain and sweeten it, add a glassful of light wine and a little cream, and serve. If liked, the yolks of one or two eggs may be used instead of the cream, but the soup must not boil after the eggs are added. Time, about an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine, 9d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rhubarb Tart.—Cut the large stalks from the leaves, strip off the skin, and di%dde the fruit into pieces half an inch long. With a pint of these pieces put half a tea-cupful of water, half a tea-cupful of brown sugar, a small pinch of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg, grated. Stew the fruit gently until it is quite soft, then beat it with a wooden spoon until it is smooth. Line some small dishes or tartlet-pans with pastry, and spread on this a layer of the stewed fruit a little more than a quarter of an inch deep. Roll out some pastry, brush it ovey with yolk of egg beaten up with a spoonful of milk, and cut it into strips a quarter of an inch wide. Lay these across the tart. Lay a band of pastry round the edge of the dish, trim it evenly, and bake the tart in a well-heated oven. "WTien the pastry loosens from the dish it is done enough. Time to bake, half an hour or more. Rhubarb Turnovers.—Make a little good pastry, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it out in rounds from four to six inches in diameter, and lay upon one-half of the pastry a little yoimg rhubarb cut small or a little stewed rhubarb. Add sugar to taste, and sprinkle a little powdered ginger over the fruit. Turn the pastry over, pinch the edges closely together, and brush the turnovers with white of egg. Sprinkle a little powdered white sugar over them, and bake on tins in a brisk oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Rhubarb Vol-au-vent. -In the spring of the year this makes a very inviting and