( 1063 ) VEA VEA excollont served with foreomoat balls round it, though it is not usual to stuif it with force- meat. It is also very good braised or stewed. The scrag end of the neck sliould bo made into a pie or used for broth. Probable cost, best end, lid, large. Is. small; scrag end, from 7d. per pound, according to size. Veal, Neck of (a la Creme).—Take the best end of a neck of veal. Loosen the flesh from the ends of the bones. Cut the bones short to make the joint as square as possible, then fold and skewer the think underneath. Wrap the joint in oiled paper, fastcsn it upon tlie spit, and put it down at a moderate distance from a clear fire. Baste liberally. Eomove the paper, and baste the joint with a pint of good white sauce or with cream. Tlus will impart to the surface of the veal a rich brown appearance and a delicious flavour. Serve the veal on a hot dish, pour white sauce roimd it, and send a little more to table in a tureen. If liked, white mushi-oom sauce may be served with the veal, as well as or instead of bechamel. Some cooks before roasting the veal let it lie in oil for a couple of hours, with a little pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs sprinkled over it. Time to roast the veal, two hours to two hours and a quarter, or twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, lid. or Is. per pound. Veal, Neck of, Braised.—Take about four pounds of the best end of a neck of veal. Cut ofl: the long bones, and saw oft' the chine bone. Put in the bottom of a braising-pan a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjine, a bay-leaf, and a few sticks of celery, with two or thi-ee slices of lean bacon or ham. Add the bones and trimmings of the veal with the scrag end of the neck if it is not wanted for other purposes. Pour in a Kttle stock or water, as much as will almost, but not quite, cover the veal. Set the pan over a slow fire, and let its contents simmer very gently till the veal is tender. Strain the liquor, and boil half of it quickly tUl it begins to thicken. With this glaze the meat until it has a bright glossy appearance. Thicken the remainder with a small piece of brown thicken- ing, or with flour and butter loieaded together and stirred quickly over the fire until the paste is brown. iSoil the sauce till smooth, skim well, stir the jidce of an orange or lemon into it, and serve with the meat. Dressed vege- tables, sucli as peas, onions, carrots, potatoes, spinach, sornd, endive, and asparagus, may be served with the veal, and part of these may be used to garnish the dish. If liked, rice boiled for curry and with cuny sauce poured over it may bo sent to table as an accompaniment. Time, from an hour and three quarters to two hours to stew the veal. Probable cost, lid. or Is. per pound. Suflicient for five or six persons. Veal, Neck of, Braised (u la Barbariej). Bniise the best end of a neck of veal accord- ing to the instructions already given, and be- fore doing so lard it with strips of truffles {see . Veal, Neck of, Lard(!d). Put bacon over the veal in the pan to preserve the colour of the mfat, nnd send Italian sauco to table aa an accompaniment. Veal, Neck of, Larded.—To lard a neck of veal, first trim it by slKjiiciiing the long b(jnc8 and sawing ofl' tliu chim^ bene. With a sliarp knife; remove tlie skin and sinew which cover tlie lillet, leaving the bones covered with fat, and lard the fillet thus bared closely and evenly with strips of fat bacon. After- wards braise the veal according to the intitruc- tions already given, and be careful tliat the liquor is high enough only to touch the edge of tlie surface of the veal, and that it does not cover the larding. When the veal is tender, take it up, and keep it hot. Strain the liquor, skim tho fat from it, and boil it down till it begins to thicken. Put the veal in the oven, and baste constantly for a quarter of an hour or till it has a bright glossy appearance. Place it on a dish, and send good brown sauce and dressed vegetables to table with it. Veal, Neck of. Roast.—Take the best end of a neck of veal, saw off the chine bono, and run a strong skewer thiough the joint lengthwise, wrap in buttered paper, and tie it to the spit. If the joint is not wrapped in paper, it must be well dredged with flour, and basted very liberally with di'ipping from the pan. Put it dowm before a clear fire, and at a suf- ficient distance to keep it from being scorched. A quarter of an hour before the joint is taken up, remove the paper, di'edge the meat with flour, and baste with a little butter dissolved in a spoon. Pour the fat from the pan, leaA-ing the brown sediment behind, stir into it a quarter of a pint of thin melted butter, and add a httle salt; then strain the sauce into a sauce- pan, and let it boO.. Put the joint on a hot dish, pour part of the sauce round it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Send the joint to table accompanied by bacon, ham, tongue, or pickled pork on a separate dish, and vAth a cut lemon on a plate. Parsley sauce, onion sauce, white sauce, and rice sauce may all be served with roast neck of veal. Time to roast the veal, an hour and a half to two hours, or twenty-five minutes to the pound. Probable cost, l id. or Is. per pound. Veal, Neck of. Stewed.—Take the best end of a neck of veal. Lard it, or if this cannot be conveniently done, cover with a thin slice &f fat bacon, and roast it for one hour. Put it into a stewpan, pour a quart of stock made from bones over it, and add a bimch of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, a bay-leaf, two onions thinly sliced, half a dozen mushrooms, half a tea- spoonful of whole pepper, and ionr ounces of picked and washed rice. Let the liquor noil, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer as gently as possible till the meat is tender. Put the veal on a dish, strain part of the gi-avy c"er it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Garnish with the boiled rice. Time, altogether, two hours. Probable cost, veal, lid. or Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Norman Haricot of.—Take two poimds and a half of veal choi)s. Tnm them neatly, free thorn almost entirely from fat,' and brown thcju lightly in a little butter. Put them into a stewpan, pour over them a pint of boibui^ stock, add a bunch of paisley, and ammer very