[ 990 ) TRI TEI mixture briskly, and ns tho froth forms lay it on an iuvorlod aiovo to drain, i'ut u quarter of a pound of ratafias, a quarter of a pound of maca- roni, and tlirco or four spoiig'O biscuits at the bottom of a trille-dish, and pour over them a pint of nicoly-flavourod li([uid calf's-foot jelly, and set this in a cool place to stilfen. Dis- Bolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little water, and jmt with it a pint of thick cream, the grated nnd of half a lemon, and a heaped table-spoonful of sugar. When this cool, pour it over the jelly, and as it begins to sot ornament with bright-coloured jam and macaroni soaked in wine. Pile the whipped ex-cam high on tho top, and the trifle will bo ready for serving. Probable cost, Ts., exclusive of the wine and brandy. Sufficient for one centre dish. Trifle, Apple.—Make a whip the day before the trifle is wanted, as for other trifles, using a pint of cream, two ounces of sugar, a glassful of sherry, and the white of an egg. Lay the froth on an inverted sieve, and leave it in a cool place. Peel, core, and slice a dozen fine apples, and put them into a saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of sugar and two of water, and let them simmer gently until quite soft. Press them thi'ough a sieve, and mix with the pulp the grated rind of half a lemon and a table- spoonful of brandy—but the brandy may be omitted. Make a thin custard with half a pint of cream,half a pint of milk, and a little sugar, and stii' the mixture over the iire until it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil. Lay the pulped apples at the bottom of the trifle-dish; when the custard is cool pour it over them, pile the whipped cream high on the top, and the trifle will be ready for serving. It may be ornamented with stripes of bright apple jelly. When it is not convenient to make the whipped cream, an inexpensive and simple substitute may be made as follows :—Whisk the whites only of three eggs to a firm froth; sweeten and flavour them, drop them in large spoonfuls into boiling water for a quarter of a minute, and turn them lightly over in the water that they may be set all round. Let them drain two or three minutes, and pile them over the custard. The appearance of the dish may be varied by slightly colouring half the whisked eggs with cochineal. Time, about half an hour to stew the apples. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., if cream be used. Sufficient for a small trifle-dish. Trifle, Gooseberry.—Wash a pint of green gooseberries, and stew them gentty with a little water until they break; press them through a sieve, throw away the skins, and sweeten the pulp agreeably. Slake a thin custard, as recommended for apple trifle, and when it begins to thicken, pour it out and let it cool. Mix it with the fruit pulp, lay it on the trifle-dish, and pile whipped cream on the top, as for other trifles. Time, about half an hour to simmer the gooseberries. Probable cost, 3s. 6d., ix made with cream. Sufficient fo:; a trifle-dish. Trifle, Gooseberry (another way).— Prepare the gooseberry-pulp as in the last re- cipe. Cut four or five rather stale penny sponge cakes into slices, lay them in a deep glass dish pour over them a wine-glassful of brandy and a wine-glassful of slierry, and let them soak till they liave absorbed the liquor. Spread tlie gooseberry-pulp upon them, and cover Ihe fruit witli the following preparation:—Sweeten a piut of now milk, and fiavour with lemon- rind or any other agreeable flavouring. Mix two table-spoonfuls of Oswego very smoothly witli a quarter of a pint of cold milk; add three well-beaten eggs, and then mix all thoroughly. Make the flavoured milk hot without letting'it boil, and stii- it into the rest. Tui-n the mixtur(; into a saucepan, and beat it over a gentle fiio until it begins to thicken. Pour it out to cool, and stir frequently. When cold, spread it over the fruit. This dish should be made two or three hom-s before it is wanted. Time, hah an hour- to boil the gooseberries; about half an hour to make the Oswego. Probable cost, exclusive of V. brandy and wine, Is. 8d. Suf- ficient for five cir six persons. Trifle, Ground Rice.—Sweeten a quart of milk, and flavour with lemon or any other suitable flavouring. Put it into a saucepan, and stir into it five heaped table-spoonfuls of groimd rice which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Let the mixture boll gently for five or six minutes, stirring all the time, and pour it into a basin imtil it is slightlj'^ cooled. Place a jelly-pot in the middle of a glass dish, pour the ground rice round it, and let it get cold and stiff. Just before serving the rice, remove the jelly-pot, and in its place put half a pint of good cold custard. Stick blanched and sUced ahnonds all over the trifle, and garnish with bright fruit jelly. If liked, the appearance of the dish may be varied by poui-ing the rice into a glass dish, and when it is cold and stiff cutting it out into the shape of a star, a diamond, or any other shape, then removing the spare rice and filling the spaces it occupied with custard. Time, four or five hours to stiffen. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Trifle, Lord Mayor's {see Lord Mayor's Trifle). Trifle, Swiss.—Take two ounces each of macaroons and ratafias ; crumble them, put them at the bottom of a glass dish, and then pour over them two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Soak the thin rind of a fresh lemon and a quarter of an inch of stick cinnamon in a pint of cream until the flavour is drawn out. Lift them out, sweeten the cream, and stir into it a thin batter made of four tea-spoonfuls of groimd rice, or, if preferred, fine flour mi.xed smoothly with a Uttle cold milk. Stir this mixture over a gentle fire until it boils, and continue to simmer it, stirring uncefismgly for four minutes. Pour it out, let it get cold, then add gradually the strained juice of two fresh lemons. Spread the custard over tlic biscuits, and stick blanched and shccd iilmond? over the surface. This trifle should be made some hours before it is wanted. Time, tour minutes to stir the custard over the fire after it has boiled. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons.