( 1032 ) VEA VEA onions, tho thin rind of half a lemon, a blade of mttco, imd a little 8ult uud wliite pepper. Pour upon tho uioiit a pint of stouk or wator, lot tho liquor boil, skim carot'ully, tlion draw it to the Bido, and simmer as gently as possiLlo till done enough. Take up tho moat, and place it in tho oven to keep hot. Strain tho gravy, put it back into tho saucepan, and stir into it the yolks of two eggs whii h have been beaten up with a quarter of a pint of milk or cream. Stir this sauce over tho iire for a minute or two till it begins to thicken, then pour it over tho veal, and serve very hot. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will ciirdlo. If liked, the moat maybe left whole instead of being I'ut up. Those wlio like the flavour may rub the dtowpan across five or six times with freshly- cut garlic before putting in the meat. Time to simmer the veal, one hour and a half, or two hom-s if thick. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Veal, Breast of, Stewed Plainly — Take out the long bones and the gristle, and trim a .breast of veal neatly. Put it into a atewpan, and cover with boiling stock made from bones. Let the liquor boil, skim care- fuUj', and simmer very gently tintil the veal is tender. Drain and dish it, garnish the dish with forcemeat balls, and pour a little good gi'avy round it. The liquor in which it is stewed, unless thoroughly cleared from the fat, will be too rich to serve with it. A little bacon should accompany this dish. Time to stew the veal, two to two and a half hours. Probable cost, veal, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Veal, Breast of. Stewed with Green Peas.—Take two pounds of the breast of veal. Cut these into pieces convenient for serving, dredge them with flour, and sprinkle upon them a little pepper, salt, and white sugar. Fry them in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with as much boiling stock made from bones as will barely cover them. Let them simmer very gently till done enough. Baste the meat frequently with the gravy, and skim this well to clear it from fat. About a quarter of an hour before the veal is to be served, throw into the hquor about a quart of freshly-shelled young peas. Let them simmer until tender. Serve very hot. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. Probable cost, about 3s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal, Breast of. Stewed with Oysters.—Talce a piece of the breast of veal weighing about two pounds. Put it into a sauce- pan with a large onion stuck with a clove, half a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, half an inch of stick cinnamon, and a little popper and salt. Pour over it the liquor from a tin of oysters, and add a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, with a little stock if required. Simmer tho veal as gently as possible for two hours, and skim it well. Strain tho liquor, put with it a quarter of a pint of milk or cream mixed with the yolks of two eggs, and stir the sauce till it thickens. Make the oysters hot by putting them into the oven in the dish in which tho veal is to he served. Pour the sauce u])on thom, pLice tho veal in the (;entre of the dish, and servo very hot. Fresh oysters may of course bo used instead of tinned ouoh, and tlioy will be superior, but more expensive. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. IVobablo cost, if made with milk, 'is. lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Veal, Breast of, Stuffed and Roasted.—Take a breast of veal weighing about eight jwunfis. Itaise the thick part with the fingers, and force into the vacant place an much veal stuffing as possible. 13ring the edg(;8 of tho meat together, and sew them with twine, or fasten them with skewers, that the force- meat may not escape. Put the veal down at a moderate distance from a clear tire. Baste it liberally. When done enough take it up, pour melted butter over, and send fried rashers of bacon to table with it. Time to roast the veal, one hour and three-quarters. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Veal, Breast of. Stuffed and Stewed. —Take a breast of veal, raise the flesh, and HIl the space with good veal forcemeat. Bring the edges together, and sew them securely with a httle piece of musHn over them that the force- meat may not escape. Put the meat down before a clear fire, dredge it with flour, and baste tUl it is equally and brightly browned all over. Take it up, and put it into a stew- pan with about a cupful of stock made from bones. Put the contents of the dripping-tin into it, throw a handful of the forcemeat in to flavour the sauce, cover the stewpan closely, and let the veal simmmer gently till done enough. Take it up, if necessary thicken the gravy with a little brown thickening, pour it over the veal, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with fried rashers of bacon, forcemeat balls, and cut lemon. Time, about half an hour to brown the veal; two hours or more to stew it. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Probable cost, lOd. per i^ound. Veal, Breast of. Stuffed and Stewed (another way).—Stuff the breast of veal as before. Line a ste^vpan with slices of bacon, put in the veal, and add two onions, each stuck with one clove, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper. Lay slices of bacon on the top of the veal, and pour upon it about half a pint or more of stock made from bones. Cover the saucepan closely, and lot its contents sim- mer gently until done enough. Take up the veal, strain the gravy, skim it well, thicken with a Httle brown thickening, stir the juice of haK a lemon into it, and pour it over the meat. A glassful of light ^^^ne may be added or not. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon, forcemeat balls, and fried bacon, or send bacon to table on a separate dish. Time to stow the veal, three hours. Probable cost, 9d. to lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Veal, Breast of, with Spring Vege- tables.—Bone, roll, and l>rai.se th." veal ac- cording to the directions already given for Voal, Breast of. Rolled and Braised. >AniiUt it