TTTR ( 1004 ) Tlirbot, Timbales of (Ma Vt niiienno). —This in a dish mado of tho romains of turbot. It requires but littlo of tho Hesh of tho lish. Cut whatever Ih left of the turbot into dice m small as possible. To niako the sauce, take throe spoonfuls of liot bechamel, to which add a good lump of butter, salt, fine white pepper, a little parsley chopped very fine and well squeezed in a towel that it may not give a green colour to the sauco; then add a little oavice. Keep stir- ring your sauce, wliich is generally called working it. The IVench term is vanner— taking up the sauce in a spoon, and pouring it perpendicularly into the stewpan, repeat- ing the operation frequently and verj' quick to make the sauce transparent. When it is mellow, and of a good taste, throw in the turbot which you have cut into dice, keep it hot, and when ready for sending to table gar- nish the little timbulea with the turbot. Let them lay for a moment in the oven, and serve hot. Turesicus.—Take part of a cold boiled leg of mutton, mince it very fine, mix it with rice, season very lightly with black pepper, add salt, and make it into balls the size of a small egg. Tie each ball separately in a cabbage-leaf, boil it about half an hour, and serve at once very hot. Turin Cakes. — Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, and pound them to a paste with the white of an egg. Beat the yolks of five fresh eggs, and work in with them gradually the almond paste and eight ounces of powdered white sugar. When these ingredients are well beaten, add an ounce of potato-flour, two ounces of fine flour, and the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Pour the preparation into buttered and sugared tartlet- tins, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about half an hour, according to size. Probable cost, Is. 2d. for this quantity. Turkey.—The turkey is highly esteemed and usually commands a high price, especially at Christmas, when most extravagant prices are often demanded and obtained for large, well-fed birds. Turkeys are in season from September to March, and are at their best in December and January. If the weather is suitable, they should be hung fully a week before being dressed. In very cold weather, care must be taken that they are not frozen in hanging, and if this is the case, they should be brought into a warm place for some hours before being cooked, or they will be spoilt. The hen bird is considered the best. Brillat Savarin says:—" The turkey is the largest, and if not the most delicate, at least the most savoury, of domestic poultry. It enjoys the singular advantage of assembling round it every class of society. When our farmers and wne- growers regale themselves on a winter's even- ing, what do we see roasting before tho kitchen fire, close to which the white-clothed table is set P A turkey. When the useful tradesman, or the hard-worked artist, invites a few friends to an occasional treat, what dish is he expected to set before them P A nice roast turkey stuffed with sausage meat and Lyons chestnuts. And in our highest gastronomical society, when politics are obliged to give way to dissertations on mutters oi taste, wJuit is desired, what in awuitcd, what is looked out for at the Be(x»nd course p A trulii(;d turkey. In my 'Secret Memoirs,' I liiid sundry notes recording that on inany occasions its restorative juice has illumined diplomatic faces of the highest emi- nence." Turkey, Blanquette of.—Cut the meat from the remains of a dressed turkey into neat slices, cover these with a cloth, and set them in a cool place till wanted. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with two ounces of lean ham or a piece of bacon-rind, a small onion finely-minced, a blade of mace, and as much cold stock or water as will cover them. Let all simmer gently together for half an hour or more. fStrain the liquor, and put it back into the saucepan with haLE a gill of thick cream, half a tea-spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Let the sauce simmer for ten minutes, put' in the slices of turkey, let them heat for two or three minutes, then add gi-adually the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and be careful to mix a little of the sauce with the egg in a basin before putting it to the rest. Stir gently for a few minutes till the sauce is set, but on no account allow it to boil after the egg is added. Serve the preparation on a hot dish with toasted sippets round it. Time, altogether, about an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold turkey, 9d. Sufiicient, with a pound of meat, for two or three persons. Turkey, Boiled.—There is an old pro- verb which says that turkey boiled is turkey spoiled, but in this couplet there is more rhyme than reason, as a boiled turkey forms a dainty dish most acceptable to persons with dehcate stomachs, who fear the richness of the roasted bii'd, and also presents an agreeable change to those who during the Christmas festivities are tired of having roasted turkey constantly set before them. A boiled turkey is prepared as follows:—Take a plump hen turkey which has himg for five or six days (weather permitting), pluck, singe, and draw it, fiU it with veal or oyster forcemeat, or with chestnuts, truss it for boiling, and remember" to draw the legs into the body, and bind it securely with tape. Dredge flour over it, put it into an oval pan with warm water just sufficient to cover it, and put with it a tea-spoonful of salt, a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a dozen pepper- corns, a few sticks of celery, and a bunch of parsley. Bring it slowly to the boil, skim tho liquor carefully, and let it simmer very genth until the turkey is tender. Take it up, drain it for a moment, serve on a hot dish, pour a little melted butter or white sauce over it, as all the company may not prefer oyster sauce, and send parsley and butter, celery sauce, oyster sauce, chestnut sauce, Dutch sauce, or even good melted butter flavoured with horse- radish, to table with it. A small ham boiled, a red tongue, or even a good cheek of bacon are all suitable accompaniments to boiled turkey, and the dish containing it may be garnished with bacon and sliced tongue, or with sliced lemon and parsley, forcemeat balls,