PIG PIG ( 552 ) galantino grow cold in tho liquor in which it was boiled, then lift it out, and boil tho Btock quickly until it is sufficiently reduced to fonn a jelly Avhen cold, clear it with white of ofrf^, and pour it over tho meat. Some cooks place a weight upon tho galantino until it is cold, and then either glaze it or cover it with bread raspings. Time to boil the galantine, five hours or more. Probable cost, 12s. to los. Sufficient for a largo breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Pig, Sucking, Potato Stuffing for (see Potato Stuffing for Goose and Sucking Pig, Sucking, Boast.—"Wipe the pig thoroughly, stuff it, and sew up the slit securely with soft cotton. Truss it like a hare, with tho fore-legs skewered back and the hind-legs drawn forward. Eub it over with clarified butter, or fresh salad-oil, and put it down, not too near, before a clear brisk fire. Baste con- stantlj', or tho crackling will be blistered and burnt, instead of crisp and brown. As tho middle part requires less roasting than the ends, it is usual, when the pig is half done, to hang a flat iron from the spit in such a position that it will shade the heat of the fire from the middle. It is well to tie some butter in a piece of muslin, and rub the pig over with this two or three times whilst it is roasting. When it is done enough, cut oflE the head before the pig is taken from the fire, take out the brains, and chop them up quickly with the stuffing; add the gravy which has dropped from the pig, and, when it can be obtained, a cupful of good veal or beef gravy, together with a little cayenne, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg. To dash it, cut the pig open, and lay the sides back to back, lengthwise, upon the dish, with one half of the head at each end and the ears at the sides. If preferred, the brains may be stirred into melted butter instead of gravy. Rich brown sauce, tomato, poivrade, piquant, proven9ale, bread, apple, and the old-fashioned currant sauce, are all served with sucking-pig. Time to roast, according to size: a three weeks' old pig, two hours. Probable cost, 6s. to 128. Suffi- cient, a three weeks' old pig for eight or nine persons. Pig, Sucking, Roast (Dr. Kitchener's recipe).—A sucking-pig is in prime order for the spit when about three weeks old. It loses part of its goodness every hour after it is killed; if not quite fresh, no art can make the crackling crisp. To be in perfection, it should be killed in the morning to be eaten at dinner; it requires very careful roasting. A sucking-pig, like a young child, must not be left for an jnstant. The ends must have much more fire than the middle ; for this purpose is contrived an iron to hang before the middle part, called a pig iron. If you have not this, use a common flat-iron, or keep tho fire fiercest at the two ends. For the stuffing, take of the crumb of a stale loaf about five ounces; rub it through a colander; mince fine a handful of sage {i.e. about two ounces), and a large onion (about an ounce and a half); mix these together with an egg, some pepper and salt, and a bit of butter as big as an egg; fill the belly of the pig with this, and sow it up ; lay it to tlio fire, and baste it with salad-oil till it 18 quite done. Do not leave it a moment; it requires tho most vigilant attendance. ltoa«t it at a clear brisk fire at some distance. To gain the praise of epicurean pig-eaters,, the crackling must bo nicely crisped and deU- oately and hghtly browned, without being either blistered or burnt. A small three weeks' old pig will be done enough in about an hour and a half. Before you take it from the fire, cut off the head, and part that and the body down the ndddle; chop the brains very fine with sorao boiled sage-leaves, and mix them with good veal gravy, or beef gravy, or what runs from the pig when you cut its head off. Send up a tureenful of beef gra\'y sauce besides. Currant sauce is still a favourite with some of the old school. Lay your pig back to back in the dish, with ono half of the head on each side, and the- ears one at each end, which you must take care- to make nice and crisp. When you cut off the pettitoes, leave the skin long, round the- ends of the legs. When you first lay the pig- before the fire, rub it aU over with fresh butter or salad-oil; ten minutes after, and the- skin looks dry, dredge it well with flour all over; let it remain on an hour; then rub it with a soft cloth. A pig is a very troublesome- subject to roast. Most persons have them baked. Pig, Sucking, Scalded.—A sucking-pig is generally sent from the butcher's ready for the spit, but for the benefit of those who find it necessary to prepare it themselves the following; directions are given:—Put the pig into cold water directly after it is killed, and let it remain for five minutes, then take it up, and hold it by the head in a large pan of boiling water for two minutes. Lay it on a table, and rub the hairs ofi with a coarse cloth. If they do not come oft easily, put the pig in the water another minute. When quite clean, make a slit down the belly,, and take out the entrails, leaving the kidneys, imtouched. Cut off the feet at the first joint, and leave a small portion of skin to fold neatly over the end. Clean the nostrils and ears, thoroughly, wash the pig in two or three waters, and dry it, inside and out, with a cloth,, then wrap it in a damp cloth until it can be cooked. The feet, the heart, and the liver of a sucking-pig are generally served separately. Pig, Sucking, Stuffed.—Remove the bones n-om every part of a sucking-pig except the head, which should be left entire. Stuff the pig with equal parts of bacon and veal- liver cut small, and seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, as well as -with some sage and basil cut as small as possible. Lay on the stuffing some slices of ham and tongue, arrange these in layers, and cut in strips some bacon,, truffles, &c. Arrange the skin over these,, bring tho sucking-pig into as natural a shape- as possible, and then enclose it in a linen cloth, -w^ith some slices of bacon, and basil, and sage- leaves. Put it in a pan with some stock broth, salt and pepper, and dress it at a very gentle heat. Allow it to get sufficiently cold in the vessel in whicn it is cooked, that it may be compressed between the hands to force out the