VEN VEN ( 1084 ) of ilcur, and worked to a smooth stiff paste v?itli two eggs and a little lukewarm water. I'or an ordinary pasty, rub tluee or four ounces of butter into a pound of Hour, and work it to a smooth stift" paste with a boaton egg and a little lukowai-m water. Venison Pasty, to Keep for some time.—Cut the meat of a breast or shoulder of venison into pieces two inches square. Season these with pepper and salt, adding if liked a small pinch of grated nutmeg. Put them, fat and lean together, into a baking-dish, place a good slice of butter upon them, and cover the dish with a coarse paste of flour and water. Bake the pasty in a moderately-heated oven for a couple of hours, and keep it in a cool dry place. When wanted, remove the coarse crust, line the edges and sides of the dish with good pastry, pour in a small quantity of strong gravy, cover with pastry, and bake in a good oven tiU the pastrj' is firm. Time to bake the pastry, about an hour. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison, Pickled Melons to Serve with..—Take some small melons, not fully ripe, skin, seed, and sHce them,' put them in an earthen jar, and pour over them as much vine- gar as will cover them. Let them lie for eight or ten days. Drain them, put them into a saucepan, pour fresh vinegar upon them, and simmer gently till they are so tender that a fork will pierce them easily. Drain and dry them on a sieve. Put them into large wide-mouthed glass bottles, pour thin syrup over to cover them entirely, and leave them in a cool place for about eight or nine days. Pour half the liquor from them, and fill the bottles with -sonegar which has been boiled and allowed to cool. Cover the bottles with skin, and store the pickle for use. The ingredients for the syrup should be in the following pro- portions : twelve ounces of sugar, one pint of water, three cloves. Strain the cloves from the syrup before pouring over the melons. Venison, Potted.—Place the venison in a pan, pour red wine over it, cover with a poimd of butter; put a paste over the pan, and set it in the oven to bake. When done enough, take the meat out of the gravy, beat it well with the butter that has risen to the top, add more if necessary, season with salt, pepper, and po\inded mace. Put the venison into pots, set them for a few minutes in the oven; withdi-aw them, wait till they are cold, and then cover with clarified butter. Venison, Potted (another way).—Rub the venison with vinegar if it is stale, and let it lie an hour. Then dry it with a cloth, and rub it all over with red wine. Season with pepper, salt, and mace, and put it into an earthen pot or jar. Pour over it half a pint ot red wine, and a pound of butter, and put it m the oven tiU it is quite tender. When it is done, pick it clean from the bones and skin, and beat it in a mortar with the fat and gravy, it you find it not sufficiently seasoned, add more, and keep beating till it is a fine paste. Ihcn piress it hard down into the pots, and pour clarified butter over it. The wino may bo omitted if not approved. Venison Pudding,—Take two pounds of venison from tlio neck or loin; cut tho meat, fat and lean logetlior, into neat pieces, and season these witli salt and pepper. Put them in a saucepan, cover with water, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Lift them out, and let them get cold. Lino a pudding-basin with pastry half an inch thick. Put the venison into it, pour over it a quarter of a \nnt of the gravy, to which a wine- glassful of port has been added, and cover in the usual way. Press the edges securely to- gether that the gi'avy may not escape. Wring a pudding-cloth out of boiling water, flour well, and tie the pudding loosely in it. Plimge it into boihng water, and keep it boiling quickly unto, done enough. Let it stand a few minutes before turning it out. Send the remainder of the gravy to table in a tureen. Time to boU the pudding, about an hour and a half. Probable cost of venison, veiy imcertain. Venison, Roast (a German recipe).— Hang the venison for ten days or a fortnight in a cool dry place. At the end of that time wash and wipe it, then beat it well. Flay off the skin. Take bacon-strips rather more than two inches long, and lard all over the fleshy parts. Roast or bake the meat, basting constantly; use sour cream or butter and milk for the purpose. Send to table with a sauce made by adding water to the bastings, skimming and straining, and adding pepper, salt, and lemon- juice. ' Venison, Saddle of. Crusted (a Ger- ' man recipe).—The venison must be himg some time, but not long enough to be high. After washing, lay it in a broad pan to cook with cold water enough to cover it; and in this put a smaU tea-cupful of vinegar, two or three carrots, onions, bay-leaves, a good bimch of sweet-herbs, including basil and a sprig of marjoram, some salt, pepper, about twenty juniper berries, as many whole pimento, and six cloves. Let it cofue slowly to a scalding heat. Skim and leave it to simmer two hours or more, according to size. It must be done tender. Then take it up, spread over it a beaten egg, and on this sprinkle a thick layer ' of bread-crumbs mixed with a table-spoonful of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of powdered cin- namon, and half a dozen pounded cloves. Brown bread is best for this. The coating must be a third of an inch thick or more. 1 Skim off a little of the fat boilings, and sprinkle I over the crumbs with it. Put the venison in ■ the oven, and let it bake a nice brown. Serve I good fruit sauce with it. Venison, Sauce for {see Old Currant Sauce for Sucking-pig, Venison, &c.). Venison, Sauces for.—In addition to the strong unflavourod gravy—a rocipc for making which has already been given (see Venison, Gravy for)—venison is usually accom- panicd by either a sweet or a piquant sauce. Several recipes are here given. No. 1. Melt a little red-currant jelly, and send it to table