THE LARGEST, CHEAPEST, AND BEST OOOKEEY-IiOOK. 1,2K0 iiagcH, royal 8vo, cloth, 78. (5d.; roxburgh, lOs. 6d Casseirs Dictionaiy of Cookery lUustmled throughout Containing about 9,000 Rkcipes and a k'^* to .]..■ Pj-inci])lcs of Oookery. "One of the moat thorough and comprohenHive workH of the kunV'—Tfui Times. ^"■s^ell di ComiMuy, Limited, Ludyate Hill, London. AN ENOYCLOr^DIA FOR THE HOUSEHOLD. 1,280 pages, royal Svo, cloth, 7s. Gd. ; roxburgh, 10s. 6d. CasseU's Domestic Dictionary. rnrnishmg information on Several Thousand Subjects relating to the Wants of Every-day Life. With numerous Illustrations. "As a manual of ready reference for aU household purposes this work has no rival. "-rA* Quern. Cassell <fc Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. Second Edition. Price 3s. 6d. Choice Dishes at Small Cost. By A. G. Payne, Author of " Common-Sense Cookery," &c J"*^^* invaluable contribution to the housekeeper's library."—Cowrt Joui-nal. A book of economical and yet good cookery. If it be carefully studied, and as carefuUy followed niajiy a home may be made the happier for it."—Scotsman. Cassell & Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. Cheap Edition (17th Thousand). Cloth gilt, Ss. 6d. A Tear's Cookery. Giving Dishes for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Dinner for Every Day in the Year, with Instructions for their Preparation. By Phillis Browne. " A Year's Cookery, by Phillis Browne, with bills of fare for everyday in the year, with directions for cooking, for marketing, and for making, arrangements for the next day, makes up an invaluable present for young housekeepers."—^iAen-tewm. Cassell & Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. Cheap Edition (9fH Thousand). Cloth gUt, 2s. 6d. What Girls Can Do. A Book for Mothers and Daughters. By Phillis Browne, Author of A Year's Cookery." "As an exceedingly useful and reliable manual of information, we heartily recommend AVhat Girls Can Do to both the mothers and daugliters to whom it is atkb-essed."—Spectator. Cassell & Company, Lhnited, Ludgate Hill, London. ■ • Revised Edition. Price 1b. How Women may Earn a Living. By Mercy Grogan. " In a lucid and concise manner are embodied a large number of suggestions in which ladies who have to depend upon their own exertions for their support could be helped."—Daily Telegraph. Cassell ifc Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. 47th Thousand. Stiff covers, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d. Etiquette of Good Society. " A book which may fairly be considered a recognised authority. It covers the whole of our lives in all their varying phases, and is as pleasantly written as it is instructive."— The Queen. CunsrJl tfc Company, Limited, Ludgate Hill, Lmdon. 9