SWE SUP ( 946 ) Supreme Sauce.—Supreme sauce IB very iiighly esteouitid, yet cooks do not always agree iiB to the mode of preparing it. Two methods are hero given:—No. 1. Take half a pint of stock which has heen made with veal and chicken-hones. Thicken this with white roux, and stir it until it is smooth and coats the spoon. Take equal portions of parsley, cross, and tarragon-leaves. Put these into scalding water for two minutes; then dniin and mince them finely. Stir a dessert-spoonful of the chopped herbs into the sauce, and add salt and white pepper. Care- fully add a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon- juice to the sauce before serving. No. 2. Put the bones of a dressed chicken into a sauce- pan with an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pour upon them a pint of good veal stock, and simmer this till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, thicken it with white roux, and boil it till the sauce coats the spoon. Pour it out, stir into it a small sUce of fresh butter until dissolved, and add a flavour- ing of milk of almonds. This sauce is generally- poured over the fish or meat with which it is served. Susie's Pudding {see Aunt Susie's Pudding). Sussex Pudding.—Mix ingredients as for ordinary suet pudding. Make it into a stifl paste with cold water, and knead it well. Roll it to the shape of a bolster, tie it in a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil •quickly for an hour. Take it up, cut it into slices the third of an inch thick, and put these into the dripping-tin under a roasting joint. ^Vhen they are slightly browned and soaked with dripping, serve them with the meat. Time to soak in the dripping, about twenty minutes. Sufiicient for four or five persons. Probable cost, 2d. Swan.—Two or three hundred years ago the swan was looked upon as an elegant fashionable dish. Now swans are but seldom dressed for the table, though their flesh is said to be both tender and delicious. Occasionally at special dinners a swan makes part of the bill of fare, and is always highly appreciated. The young birds or cygnets only are chosen. If any feel inclined to experiment upon this un- usual dish, they will find, in addition to the following recipe, full directions given under the heading Cygnet. Swan, Potted.—Skin the swan, and take out all the bones; cut the flesh into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar. Pound also with it some clean fat bacon, adding a little at a time. Beat this up with the flesh of the swan, so as to incorporate the two like an amalgam. When the mass has assumed a light flesh-colour, no more bacon need be added. Continue to beat the meat until it is of the consistence of dough. .Season it with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all finely powdered and well mixed and beaten up with it. Put the mass now into a baking-pan with a good glassful of port wine and the same quantity of water; cover the top with two pounds of cold fresh butter. Cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water. Bake it in an oven heated as for bread. When it is done, take off the crust, turn out the meat into a dish, gently squeeze out the moisture, and put it into pots. When cold pour over it clarified butter. Swans' Eggs {see Eggs, Swans'). Swedish Salad.—Take a couple of pickled herrings, cut off the heads and tails, remove the bones, and divide the flesh into dice. Mix with those two apples, peeled and sliced, two large boiled potatoes cut into dice, an equal quantity of cold roast beef, and a little sliced beetroot. Add a table-spoonful of shced gherkine, a table-spoonful of capers, a table-spoonful of shred tarragon-leaves, two table-spoonfuls of chopped chervil, and a hard-boiled egg finely minced. Season the salad rather highly with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Put the whole in a salad-bowl and serve. A dozen or more freshly- opened oysters may, if liked, te laid upon the top of the salad, and various additions may be made to it. Picked shrimps, filleted anchovies, dressed Brussels sprouts, olives, curled celery, and green onions may all be introduced at discretion, and any other kind of dried or pickled fish may be used instead of herrings, if preferred. Sweet and Ornamental Dislies.—As a little experience is necessary before sweet and ornamental dishes can be successfully manu- factured, the housekeeper should take into consideration the question whether, where one or two dishes only are occasionally required, it is not better worth her while to purchase them at the confectioner's than to attempt making them at home. An inefficient cook might quickly waste over failures ingredients the cost of which would move than pay for the purchase of ready-made dishes. WTien these prepara- tions are frequently used, however, there is no doubt that it is much more economical to pre- pare them at home, and many ladies, and young ladies especially, would do well to acquire the art (for it is nothing less) of pre- I paring deUcacies which would, if successful, reflect much credit on their taste and skill. The general rule is, half an ounce of gelatine to a pint of liquid, nevertheless isinglass and gelatine vary so much in strength and quality, that experiment alone can determine the exact quantity which should be used. If the jellies or creams are to be put into one large mould, the preparation will need to be stiffer than if they are to be put into two or three small moulds, and it is always well to test a small quantity, by putting it into a cup or glass, to see if it will become stiff enough to turn out in a shape. If it does not do so, a little more isinglass should be added. When convenient it is always well to set the moulds in ice till they are wanted. Moulds in which creams or jellies are to be set should always be damped before the preparation is put into them. Metal moulds will spoil the appearance of red jellies, therefore earthenware ones are much to be preferred. Sweetbread Kromeskies. — Prepare the sweetbreads as for croquettes {sec bweet- breads. Croquettes of). Let the preparation get quite cold, then divide it into equal portions, rolled to the shape of a cork. Place each one