SNI ( 885 ) SNI same way with young ducks or pigeons, and eaten hot or cold. Snipes (a la Minute).—Pluck three snipes Ciirefully, and truss them for roasting. Dis- solve two ounces of fresh butter in a saucepan, lay the snipes in it side by side and breast downwai-ds, and add two finely-minced shal- lots, or small onions, a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Move the saucepan about over a sharp fire till the bii-ds are lightly browned, pour over them as much good stock and sherry mixed as will barely cover them, and add the strained juice of half a lemon and a small piece of crust of bread finely grated. Simmer all gently together till the birds are done enough. Lift them out, and put them on a hot dish. Dissolve half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract in the sauce, stir it over the fire for a minute, and pour it over the birds. Serve immediately. Time, seven to ten miautes to fry the birds; seven to ten minutes to stew them. Probable cost of snipes, very variable. Sufficient for thi'ee or four persons. Snipes, Choosing of.—Snipes, like wood- cocks, when old have the feet hard and thick ; when these are soft and tender the birds are both yoimg and fresh killed. When the bills become moist and the throats muddy, they have been too long killed. Snipes, Cooked (German fashion).— Pluck the birds, skin the head, and remove the eyes. Singe them, and cut off the claws; twist the legs, disjointing them, and so bring the feet close to the thighs, and put the long beak through these as a skewer. The position will indicate how the breast may be kept thrown up by passing twine round the joints and lower part of the body, to tie at the back. Put them in a stewpan just large enough to hold them with butter enough to keep them basted, turn- ing as they are done on one side till they are tinged all over. About twenty minutes by a brisk heat wiU cook them. Toast slices of bread, pour on these the butter they were cooked in, and serve the birds on them. Dressed in this way, they are not drawn before the trussing. Snipes, Gravy for {see Orange Gravy for Tciil, Widgeons, Snipes, Woodcocks, &c.). Snipes, Potted (a good breakfast dish— to be eaten cold).—Take some freshly-kiUed snipes, pluck them carefully, cut off the legs and wings, take away the gizzard, but leave the trail untouched. Cover the bottom and sides of an ordinary potting-pan with thin slices of fat bacon. Place the snipes in this in layers until the dish is almost full, and carefully season each layer with salt and pepper. Pour in as much clarified butter as will cover the birds, and lay over the surface of the pan a paste of flour and water, or, if the lid is put on, lay a border of paste round the edge of it to keep in the steam. When the pastry only is used, a little slit should bo made in the middle of it with a knife to prevent accidents. Bake the pie in a moderate oven. When done enough, let it get quite cold before serving. Time to bake a moderate-sized pie, about an hour and a quarter. Snipes, Pudding of.—An exceUcnt pud- ding may bo made with snipes and woodcock, as well as with small wild fowl of various kinds. Pluck and singe a brace of snipes, and divide them into halves. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, and leave the trails untouched. Season the birds with salt and cayenne. Line a pudding-basin with suet crust. Lay in it a slice of rump steak seasoned with pepper and salt only, put in the snipes, and place upon them another slice of rump steak. Pour upon the meat a quarter of a pint of good beef gravy, cover with pastry, press the edges together with the finger and thumb, and steam or boO. the pudding till done enough. Turn it out carefully, and ser^'e verj' hot. A few slices of truffle may be added to the pudding or not. Time to boil the pudding, two hours and a half. Sufficient for four or five persons. Snipes, Pudding of, Superior.—Take four or six fresh snipes, pluck them, and cut them in halves. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, but put the trails aside till wanted. Season the birds with salt and black pepper; a few drops of lemon-juice may bo sprinkled over them or not. Cut a Spanish onion into dice, put it into a saucepan which has been rubbed quickly round with garlic, and fry it in butter till it begins to turn yellow. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour upon it, and add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a table- spoonful of minced parsley, and a pinch of aromatic powdered herbs {see Herbs, Aro- matic, Powdered). Stir these ingredients over the fire, and moisten them with half a pint of wine, or with stock flavoured with wine. Boil aU for ten minutes, add the trails, and rub the sauce through a sieve. Line a pudding-basin with thin suet crust, put in the birds, pour the sauce over them, and add three or four sliced truffles if liked. Cover the pudding -wdth pastry, press the edges closely together, and boil or steam it in the usual way. Turn out carefully, and serve. Time to boil the pudding, two hours and a half. Sufficient, six birds for a good-sized pudding. Snipes, Raised Pie, Hot.—Take four snipes, pluck and singe them, and cut them in two lengthwise. Carefully remove the gizzards with the point of a knife, put the trails aside till wanted, and season the birds with salt and cayenne. Fry the birds' in a saucepan with a little clarified butter tiU they are set; they will take about ten minutes. Drain them, and put them in a cool place till wanted. Make a little forcemeat as follows:—Cut four ounces of calf's liver and four ounces of fat bacon into dice. Melt the bacon in a saute-pan over a brisk fire, add the Uver, and season the mixture with salt, popper, and a pinch of aromatic powdered herbs. When the bacon and liver are cooked, put them aside till cold, then pound them till smooth in a inortfir, add, whilst pounding, the trails of the birds, and press the paste thi-ough a sieve. Butter a moderate-sized pie-mould, line it evenly with crust {see Paste for Raised