RAP RAG ( 700 ) koop Btiriing all tho time ; put in half an ounce of allspico, six cloves, four sliullots peeled, two or throo blades of mace, three table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a little salt, and tho rind of a lemon peeled as tliin as pos- sible ; boil up slowly for ton minutes; pour- it into a basin; when cold, take off tho scum very- clean, and bottle for use. This is a pleasant sauce, but the cook must remember it will alter the colour of whatever it is added to. Raffald's Lemon Pickle.— Take a dozen lemons, grate olf the outer rinds very thin, cut them in four quarters, but leave tho bottoms whole ; rub on them equally a pound of bay-salt. Spread them in a largo pewter dish, and lot them dry gradually by the fire till all tho juice is dried into the peels ; then put them into a stone jar with half an ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of cloves beaten fine, half an ounce of nutmeg cut in thin slices, two ounces of garlic peeled, a quarter of a pound of mustard-seed bruised a little and tied in a muslin bag; pour a quart of white-wine vinegar upon them, close the pitcher or jar well lip, and let it stand five or six days by the fire; ahiake it well every day, then tie it up as close as possible, and let it stand for three months. When you bottle it, -put the pickle and lemon into a hair sieve, and press them well to get out the liquor; let it stand till next day; then pour off the fine and bottle it; let the rest stand three or four days and it will settle; pour ^ff the fine again and let it settle, tiU you have poured off all you can get fine. It may be put into any white sauce, and will not hurt the colour. It is very good for fish sauce and made dishes, especially of veal; a tea-spoonful is enough for white and two for hrown sauce for a fowl: it is a most useful pickle, and gives a pleasant flavour. Be sure you put it in before you thicken the sauce or put any cream in, lest the sharpness make it curdle. Mrs. Eafifald says in the preface to her " Cookery :"—"I have given no directions for cullis, &c., as I have found by experience that lemon-pickle and browning {Seethe preceding recipe) answer both for beauty and taste (at a trifling ex- pense) better than the most extravagant cullises. Had I known the use and value of these two recipes when I first took upon me the part and duty of a housekeeper, they would have saved me a gi-eat deal of trouble in making gravy, and those I served a great deal of expense." Dr. Kitchiner, in quoting these observations, adds, " We suppose Mrs. liafifald's praise of these two sauces to be well deserved, as they hjive been copied into almost every cookery-book that has been compiled since." Ragout.—strictly speaking, a ragout is a rich, highly-flavoured sauce made with mush- rooms, truffles, sweetbreads, quenelles, stewed vegetables, &c., and used as a garnish for entrees or removes. Thus we have Chipolata ragout, and Toulouse ragout, the recipes for making which will be found under their separate headings. Ordinarily, however, a ragout is simply undor- .stood to mean any highly-flavoured preparation of moat or fish, poultry or game. Ragout Financi6re.—Prepare and cook equal quantities of mushrooms, quenelles, cock's- combs, cock's kernels, scallops of sweetbread and sliced truffles. Lot these ai-ticles bo as nearly as possible of uniform size, put them into a saucepan, and pour over thorn as much good brown sauce as will barely cover them. Add a glassful of light wine, place the sauce- pan on a gentle fire, and let it.s amUinta simmer gently mitil they are thoroughly hot. This ragout is used for garnishing various dishes. Time to heat the ragtmt, three minutes. Ragout of Garlic, Mild.—Garlic is not universally liktjd, probably (nving to its strou" savour and smell. Those wlio are fond of ii, however, are generally very partial to it, and these persons will welcome it simply boiled till tender, without sauce or gravy, and served in the same dish with roast mutton. When thus served, its flavour and smell will be rendered much milder if the water in which it is boiled be changed every five or ten minutes until it is done enough, and the more frequent these changes are the milder the garlic will be. Instead of serving it dry with the mutton, the garlic may be jjut into good brown gravy or white sauce, and i)oured over the meat. Time to boil the garlic, half an hour. Ragout Powder.—Take one ounce of grated lemon-rind, one ounce of ground black pepper, one ounce of dry mustard, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, half an ounce of powdered ginger, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, a quarter of an ounce of powdered mace, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cloves. Dry these ingredients before a very gentle fire; they must be placed at some distance from it, and dried ver}' slowly, or their flavour will evaporate. Pound them thoroughly in a marble mortar, mix with them two ounces of salt, and pass the powder through a fine hair sieve. Put the powder into small bottles per- fectly dry, cork these down tightly, and store in a dry place. A small portion added to ragouts and sauces will impart an agreeable flavour. RagOllt Powder (another way).—Grate the rinds of two lemons and two Seville oranges. Take a quarter of a pound of truffles, a quarter of a pound of dried mushrooms, a large nutmeg grated, an ounce of powdered mace, an ounce of ground black pepper, and two drachms of cayenne. Dry these ingredients well before a gentle fire, as in the last recipe. Pound them to powder in a marble mortar, mix with them two ounces of salt, pass tlie powder through a sieve, cork it tightly, and bottle for use. Ragouts. — Recipes for the following ragouts will be found under theii" respective headings:— Beef liiVEU, Fat Calf's Head Milanese Chipolata Garnish Mussels Eggs Muttox Fisk.inScalloi*Shells Mutton, Fkencu Fowl Rabbit Gauhc, Mild Sweetbreads Hake Toulouse Hessian Soup, &c. \''eal. Breast op Lamb Steaks. Veal, Cold.