PEP C 532 ) FEE pepper. Bring tho liquid gontly to a boil, stirring it occasionally, then draw the saucepan to the side and lot its contents simmer gently for an hour. Strain it, add a little more salt if required, and servo either hot or cold as a jolly. The flesh of the bird may be made into a chicken panadii (see Chicken Tanada). The above is good for consimiptive persons. Probable cost, Ss. Sufficient for one person. Peel, Orange and Lemon.—The rinds of the orango and lemon may be classed amongst the aromatic condiments. They owe their high flavour to the essential oil they contain, which is extracted, and sold as the essence of oranges and lemons. A few drops of this essential oil is quite as useful as the peel itself: besides it has the advantage of being easily preserved, whereas the peel when dried loses in course of time most of its flavour, fi'om the essential oil escaping. Peels of Fruits, To Preserve the.— The portion of the peel to be preserved should be separated from the rest and dried in a gentle heat. Pemmican.—Pemmican is a preparation of preserved meat, made by cutting lean meat into thin steaks, drying these thoroughly, re- ducing the substance to powder, and mixing it with melted fat, or beef suet. It is an indispensable article for the Arctic voyager, and constitutes an important item in the supplies furnished by the Hudson's Bay Company to their employes. The following is an account given by Sir John Richardson of the prepa- ration of pemmican for use in the search for Sir John Franklin:—"The round or buttock of beef, of the best quality, having been cut into thin steaks, from which the fat and membranous parts were pared away, was dried in a malt- kiln over an oak fire until its moisture was entirely dissipated, and the fibre of the meat became friable. It was then ground in a malt-miU, when it resembled finely-grated meat. Being next mixed with an equal quantity of melted beef suet, or lard, the pre- paration of plain pemmican was complete; but to render it more agreeable to the unaccustomed palate, a proportion of the best Zante currants was added to part of it, and part was sweetened with sugar. Both these kinds were rnuch approved of in the sequel, but more especially that to which the sugar had been added. After the ingredients had been well incorporated by stirring, they were transferred to tin canisters capable of containing eighty-five pounds each, and having been firmly rammed down, and allowed to contract further by cooling, the air was completely expelled by filling the canister to the brim with melted lard through a small hole left in the end, which was then covered with a piece of tin, and soldered up. Finally the canister was painted and lettered according to its contents." Penguin.—The common penguin is the size of a duck; the great penguin is as large as a goose. It is only used as food m rare cir- cumstances. Pennant describes the Patagonian penguin as follows:—They are very fat, but taste fishy, not unlike our puffins. As they are very full of blood, it is necosftary to cut off their heads as soon as they are killed, in order that it may run out. It is also requisite that they should bo flayed, for without these premutions their iU'.nh is scarcely eatable. When salted, it becomes good food. Sir K. Hopkins preserved in tliis way sixteen hogsheads, which served as beef above two months. Peninsula Pudding.—Take six ounc^js of picked and diied cim-auts, and four ounces of raisins weighed after they have been stoned. Mix wth these four ounces of sugar which has been rubbed upon the rind of a small lemon and powdered, and add six ounces of chopped apples, three ounces of finely-shred suet, tlu-ee ounces of bread-crmnbs, a j^inch of salt, and the eighth of a nutmeg grated. Mix the dry in- gredients thoroughly, then stir into them three well-beaten eggs, the strained juice of the lemon, and a glassful of brandy. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould which it will fill to the brim, cover with oiled paper, and tie the mould in a fioured cloth. Plimge it into boiling water, and keep the pudding boiHng until it is done enough. Turn it out carefully, sift powdered sugar thickly over it, and send sweet sauce or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boU, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 3d., exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pepper.—Pepper, as used for seasoning, is the produce of a plant which grows almost ex- clusively in tropical countries, and is remark- able for its aromatic, hot, pimgent taste. There are several kinds to be met vdth, of which the most important are black pepper, white pepper, long pepper, cayenne pepper, and Neilgherry pepper (see under these difiEerent THE PEPPEE PLANT. headings). In order to test the quality of the peppercorns rub them between the hands; if they are easily crushed to powder they are bad. Pepper was known to the ancient Greeks and Romans. We find two sorts described in the fourth century n.c. At one time it held a much more important place in the commerce of the world than now, having been, before the Aayu of cotton, coffee, and sugar, n loading article in the traffic between Europe and India. Tribute