SAL (813) Sal repeat the layers, diminishing the cii-cles each time until at last thoy come to a point. Pour a little more jolly over all, place hfilf a hard- boiled egg on this, and fasten in it the heart of a cabbage-lettuce. Keep it in a cool place till wanted. Salmon Salad.—This is an entremet which is recun-ed to on economical principles when there is any salmon left. Let the salmon cool, and cut it nicely into hearts or square lozenges. Decorate these hearts with fillets of anchovies, pickled cucumbers, fine capers, and chopped eggs, to which add a few hearts of lettuce. Then make the sauce as follows:— If you have some jelly, make a kind of mayon- naise. Put three spoonfuls of oil, one spoonful of vinegar, with an equal quantity of jelly, seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped herbs. Beat all these over ice till they are a white colour, and decorate your salad with this mayonnaise and a few lumps of jelly cut in different shapes. Make no decorations that are liable to tumble down. A plain good salad ^vill be eaten in preference to any other. Grand decorations are merely intended to ornament the centre of the table : what is to be eaten must be plain and good. Above aU things, avoid introducing artificial colours. Nature has supplied you with nasturtium, red and white beetroot, beans of two coloui's (white and green), chervil, tarragon, burnet, &c.; besides, you have white or yellow ome- lettes. Never put any fish into a salad of fowl, for if the fowl tastes of fish, what will you have your salads maigres taste of ? In summer-time you have asparagus, artichoke- bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. Salmon Salad with Jelly.—Take a piece of cold boiled salmon, weighing about two pounds, trim away the bones and skin, and di\'ide the flesh into squares. Place these squares in a dish, season, and baste with oil and vinegar. Have ready a plain border mould em- •bedded in ice; ornament the sides and bottom with gherkins, whites of egg, fillets of anchovy, and capers, always dipping the details in hali- set aspic jeUy. FiU the mould by degrees with cold jelly. Twenty minutes before serving, turn the mould out on to a cold dish, fill half the centre with chopped aspic j elly, and on it place the squares of salmon in layers, alternated with egg mayonnaise sauce. Serve with mayonnaise sauce in a sauce-boat. Salmon, Salted (Norwegian fashion).— In the northern parts of the Continent salmon is salted just like beef and pork. Before cook- ing the salted fish, let it steep in cold water for forty-eight hours: the time may be shorter ,or longer, howsver, according to the size of the piece. Lay it in a stewpan, moisten with plenty of cold water, and bring it to the boil- ing point. Remove it back, keeping the fish covered ; let it stand for ten minutes, then drain the salmon, place it on some boiled but not chopped spinach, pour some melted butter over, and send the fish to table. The spinach and melted butter may be served separately. Salmon, Sauces suitable for. — Shrimps, anchovy, lobster, Dutch, and green parsley sauces may aU be served with boiled salmon. SHced cucumber is frequently served with it, and is generally liked as an accompani- ment. Broiled salmon may have caper, maitre d'hotel, Indian, perigueux, aurora, ravigote, tartar, or Italian sauces. Oyster sauce, too, is sometimes served with salmon. Fennel sauce is now almost obsolete. Salmon, Scalloped (Cold Meat Cook- ery).—Lift the flesh from the remains of dressed salmon, remove the skin and bones, and tear the meat into flakes. Season these rather highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Mix with them one-fifth of their weight in flnely- grated bread-crumbs, and moisten them lightly with any cold sauce there may be, or, failing this, with clarified butter. Butter some scal- lop-shells, cover the inside with, finely-grated bread-crumbs, and shake off any that do not adhere. Put in the fish, cover it thickly with, crumbs, lay two or three little pieces on the top, and bake the scallops in a brisk oven till the surface of the crumbs is brightly browned. Serve the fish in the shell, neatly arranged on a hot dish, and covered with a folded napkin. If preferred, lightly-mashed potato may be mixed with the fish instead of bread-crumbs. If scallop-shells are not at hand, deep oyster-sheUs, well cleaned, may be used instead, or even shallow dishes will answer the same purpose. Time to bake the scallops, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient, three or four scallops for a dish. Salmon, Scotch Mode of Dressing. —The fishermen on the coast of Scotland boil their salmon in strong brine, and serve it with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled. This plan they adopt both when the fish is boiled whole and when it is divided into pieces convenient for serving. Salmon, Smoked (A breakfast relish). —Cut a smoked salmon into thin slices. Wrap these in oiled paper, and broil them on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When they are heated on one side turn them upon the other. Let them get cold, pour a little lucca oil over them, and serve. Time to broil the slices, two minutes. Salmon Soup.—No. l. If the fish is very fresh this soup may be partially made with the liquor in which it has been boiled, though a quart of veal stock made from bones and fla- voured with vegetables will answer the purpose better. Take the remains of the salmon. Lift the flesh from the bones while it is still hot, and remove the skin. Supposing there is a poimd and a haH of salmon, pick out the best pieces, tear them into flakes, and then lay them aside. Put the rest in a mortar along with any re- mains of lobster there may be, especially the coral, a little cream, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and two hard-boiled egg-yolks. Pound these ingredients to a smooth paste. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan; mix with this as much flour as it will take, beat it quickly with a wooden spoon till it is smooth and slightly brown, and moisten with a portion of the stock. Stir in the salmon paste, and add as much slock as will make the