WAT ( 1104 ) WEA Water, Purification of.—Pure water is incapiiblo of putrofaction, but ordinarily water contains a small quantity of organic matter in solution which quickly undergoes decomposition even in closed vessels. This is particularly the case when the water is kept in wooden casks, or in open cisterns, into wliich loaves and insects are driven by the wind. As a bever- age, putrescent water is highly unwholesome. Among the various methods that are adopted for purifying foul water, are the following:—1, Filtration through or agitation with powdered freslily-bumt charcoal, either animal or vege- table, but preferably the latter. This lemoves both mechanically suspended matter, and part of the calcareous and gaseous impurities held in solution. 2. Free exposure to the action of the air, by which the organic matters become oxidised and insoluble, and speedily subside. This may be effected easily by agitating the water in contact with fresh air, or by forcing air through it by means of bellows. 3. Add a Little sulphuric acid; fifteen to twenty drops are usually sufficient for a gallon. This addi- tion may be advantageously made to water intended for filtration through charcoal, by which plan at least two thirds of the latter may be saved (Lowitz). 4. An ounce of powdered alum (dissolved) well agitated with a hogshead or more of foul water, will purify it in the course of a few hours, when the clear portion can be decanted. When the water is very putrid, about half a drachm (or even one drachm) per gallon may be employed. 5. A solution of ferric sulphate acts in the same way as alum ; a few drops are enough for a gallon. 6. Sea-water may be rendered fit for use as a beverage by distillation. The waste heat of the cook's galley is amply sufficient for this purpose. There are several patent contrivances for the distillation of water on ship-board. Water, Purity of.—The purity of water may be known by the following marks qr properties of pure water:—1. Pure water is lighter than water that is not pure. 2. Pure water is more fluid than water that is not pure. 3. It has no colour, smell, or taste. 4. It wets more easily than the waters containing metallic and earthy salts, called hard waters, and feels softer when touched. 5. Soap, or a solution of soap in alcohol, mixes easily and perfectly with it. 6. It is not rendered turbid by adcUng to it a solution of gold in aqua regia, or a solution of silver or of mercury in nitric acid, or a solution of acetate of lead in water. Water Souchet.—Take some verj' small flounders or dabs; clean them thoroughly, and boil them in water with a little salt till tender. Take them up carefully with a sUce, one by one, keeping the white side uppermost. Put them into a vegetable-dish nearly full of boil- ing water, and throw into this two or three sprigs of clean double parsley. Serve very quickly. Hand round with the fish thin slices of brown bread and butter. Water souchet is made also of eels, soles, and plaice. The fish ought to be very small; but if they cannot bo procured, and larger ones have to be used, they should be cut into moderate-sized pieces, rejecting the heads and tails. Time, a few miiuites to boil the fish. Probable cost, 6d. for a moderate-sized dish. Sufficient for three or four persons. Water Souchet (another way).—Take a quart of water, a few perch or flounders, some parsley and parsley-roots. Stew these in a suit- able pan, and when soft pulp them through a sieve. Into the liquor put the remainder of the fish with more parsley and parsley-roots and some salt. Boil till the fish is done enough, and then send it to table in the surrounding water, together with the roots. A few of the fish stewed down strengthens the water in which the fish is afterwards served. Water, Toast and.—By impregnating water with the soluble parts of toasted bread, it will frequently agree with those stomachs which rebel against the use of the pure fluid. It is thus rendered slightly nutritive, holding a cer- tain portion of gum and starch in solution. Sir A. Carlisle recommends that it should be prepared with hard biscuit reduced by fire to a coft'ee-colour. " This drink," he says, " being free from yeast, is a most agreeable beverage." Much depends upon the water being at the boiling temperature, and it ought to be dnmk as soon as it has cooled sufficiently, for by keeping it acquires an tmpleasant fiavour. Infusions of other kinds of bread, in particular of toasted oat-cakes, also dried or toasted oatmeal, have been recommended; but the taste of such in- fusions would not be palatable to any one who has not been accustomed to eat oat-bread. Waters.—Recipes for the following waters will be found under their respective headings:— PiNE-APPLE Apple Apple, Iced AllllOWROOT Barley Currant Gooseberry Lemon Marsh MALLOW Mulberry Pomegranate Eice Soda Summer Beverages Toast and Water Vinegar and Water {see Summer Beve- rages) Waters, Iced Fruit.—These are very agreeable beverages, in their season, for evening parties. Currants, cherries, strawberries, rasp- berries, or apples, may be used for making them. To make strawberry water, take a pottle of strawberries—let them be scarlet strawberries, if possible, on account of the beautiful colour they impart to the syrup-pick them carefully, and put them into three pints of very weak syrup; bruise the strawberries in it, and boil them up ; strain the water through a jelly-bag without any pressure, which would make the water thick. Ice the water, and keep it m a cool place till wanted. To make cuiTant and cherry waters, a stronger syrup must be used than for strawberries, but the exact strength of the syrup must be determined by taste. Weaver Pish.—The great weaver, or the sea-cat, of Sussex, generally measures about twelve inches in length, s^\-ims near the bottom, and is remarkable for living a long tmie after- it is taken out of the water. It is also armed with very sharp spines, which mflict wounds