TIN TIN ( 973 ) the water off, and add three tea-cupfuls of cold ■water to the rice with a little salt; set it on the lire, and by the time it boils the rice will j bo nearly dressed. Pour the contents of the j saucepan into a colander, set it on a saucepan on a stove for ten or fifteen minutes, covering well witli a clean cloth—this will absorb the steam and leave the rice drj-- and whole. Take some mince prepared as in No. 35, roll into balls, and cover with the rice mixed with a well-beaten egg; flour, and fry a very light brown. Serve on a napkin with parsley. 37. EissoLEs. Prepare the mince as for No. 35, flour the balls, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with good thick gravy. 38. RiSSOLETTE. Prepare mince as for No. 35, adding a small quantity of chopped suet, a chopped onion, and two eggs; mix well together. Add one tea- cupful of stock, and pour into a greased pie- dish. Bake till crisp outside, turn on to a flat dish, and serve with gravy in a boat. 39. Mince ox Toast. Prepare the mince as for No. 35, season with a little anchovy, half a tea-spoonful of chutnee, a pinch of sage, and a little cream. Stir it in a stewpan over the fire with a dessert-spoonful of corn-flour, and put it when quite hot on to buttered toast in small squares of four inches. 40. Open Mince Tart. Prepare mince as in No. 39. Make a short paste, line a flat dish as for an open jam tart, the edge well raised, and fill it with the mince. Cut out of the paste a few leaves or other orna- I ments. Bake separately, and when the tart is baked and ready for sending to table, put the leaves on it regularly. 41. Mince in Scallops. Butter half a dozen scallop-shells, fiU them ■with the mince No. 39, strew them with bread- crumbs thickly. Bake, and serve on a napkin. 42. Mince -with Poached Eggs. Line a flat dish with mince No. 39; poach half a dozen eggs, place them regularly on the mince, fry a few strips of bacon, and put them round just before serving. 1 43. Mince and Spinach. | Put a border of mince No. 39 round a flat j meat-dish, and fill the centre ■with spinach boiled without water, chopped fine, peppered i and salted, and with which two table-spoonfuls of cream have been mixed. Serve very hot. 44. Omelet -with Mince. Make an omelet thus:—Put half an ounce of butter into the pan, pour gently in two eggs well beaten with a table-spoonful of milk, a little chopped parsley, a little chopped shallot, pepper and salt; do not stir for half a minute, then stir all up together, and in two minutes it will be done. Slide on to a dish, and fold double, first ])lacing on half a small quantity j of mince No. 39 made quite hot. Garnish with parsley, and ser\-e. 45. Hachis au pots. Cut some neat slices of mutton, place on a ' dish, pepper and salt, cover with another dish, | and heat thoroughly in the oven. Have ready- some peas—those that are rather old will do—let them be well stewed with pepper and salt in Australian broth. When done, mix two table- spoonfuls of corn-flour with them, a table- spoonful of any hot sauce, a leaf of mint dried and rubbed, some colouring; stir till thick, pour round the meat, and serve. 46. Mince -vn ith Hakd-boiled Eggs. Prepare mince No. 39, place it round a flat dish; boil three eggs ten minutes, sheU and halve them. Have ready some nice white sauce, lay the half eggs on the mince at regu- lar distances, and pour over the white sauce, having previously filled the hollow of the dish ■with a rocky pile of mashed potato. 47. Fhitadella -with White Sauce. Fry some well-seasoned and well-floured pieces of mutton, breaking as little as possible. Place in a flat dish, and cover with a nice white sauce. Put slices of pickled beetroot over, and serve. 48. Fritadellas. Prepare mince No. 39; roll into balls, fry, and place on a flat dish, pour some good white sauce overj and serve with a garnish of parsley, and place some small balls of mashed potato {see No. 32) fried alternately round. 49. Fried Meats. Either mutton or beef is very good cut into thick slices, peppered and salted, and well floured. Break an egg, beat it up, and mix with two ounces of bread-crumbs on a flat plate; cover the pieces of meat with it, and fry in boiling fat a nice brown. Lay in a dish, cut some cold boiled potatoes in thin slices, and fry them after the meat till of a light bro^vvn. Lay them lightly over the meat, and serve. 50. Breast of Mutton (a I'Australienne). Bone a breast of mutton, flatten it out ■well, lay over it mince made of Australian mutton weU seasoned, roll it up very tightly, and tie securely with tape. Bake in a quick oven, and serve, after untying it, -with this sauce: —Cut up into very small square pieces an ounce of lean ham or bacon, the same quantity of caiTot, celery, and onion, a bay-leaf, a little thyme, twenty peppercorns, and a bit of mace. Fry these the size of a walnut in fat till the whole gets well browned; add a wine-glassful of vinegar, half a wine-glassful of ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of ancho^v'y. When this has boiled to half its quantity add one pint of melted butter coloured brown, two table- spoonfuls of stock, and a wine-glassful of sherry. Boil gently, remove the grease, and strain. 51. Bubble and Squeak. Prepare some mince {see No. 31); put it into a round basin, and then into the oven to keep warm. Boil some cabbage tender, chop it up, and stir over the fire in a stewpan ■\vith an ounce of butter and pepper and salt till well heated. Then turn out the mer.t on to a dish, lay the cabbage round it half way up the sliapc of meat, place some strips of boiled bacon all round that part of the meat that is left un- covered, and serve.