POT ( 624 ) POT no attention till twenty years after that period. About the same time the potato was introduced into Saxony and some parts of Germany; and in the latter part of the century it made its way into France. There it owed much to the o.vertioiiB of I'armeiitier. In some Gorman districts, Government took an interest in the plant, and aided its culture by compulsory enactments. The culture of the potato in the rest of Em-ope appears to have attained to no great extent until during the last century. It waa introduced from England into the Netherlands, and thence into Gemiany; but it was still im- known to the agriculturists of Saxony in 1740, subsequent to which period its culture increased so rapidly, that in thirty years after the above date, a small detachment of the French army, while in that country, having its supplies wholly cut oft", the soldiers subsisted for eight or ten days entirely on potatoes obtained from the fields; nor did they consider this a hardship. The potato was introduced into Sweden in 1720, but the exertions of Linna>us in favour of its culture were little regarded, and it did not come into general cultivation until 1764, when a royal edict was published for the encourage- ment of this branch of husbandry. In Switzer- land the value of the root was discovered about the same period at which it was introduced into Sweden; and in a few years the inhabitants not only grew potatoes among their mountains in abundance, but had likewise learned the art of drj-ing them, grinding them into flour, and making them into bread. A traveller in 1730 relates that the miller of Untersen had scarcely anything to grind but potatoes; and in 1734 a peasant was so well aware of the proiit arising from this culture, that he bought a small field situated near the Swiss mountains, and in only two years after paid the purchase-money by the produce of his potato-crops. In 1846 and 1847 terrible famine resulted in Ireland and elsewhere through the failure of the potato-crop. The potato disease was first noticed in Germany, and assumed a serious character at Liege in 1842. Two years later it invaded Canada, and at once proved very de- structive there. In 1845 it was observed in the British Isles, and during that year its ravages were very considerable. They reached their height in 1846, when the Irish famine was the consequence. Since 1847 the potato-disease has gradually diminished, but it still breaks out in particular localities. Its cause and origin have never been satisfactorily explained. Potato KlOSse (a" German dish).—Scoop the floury part from five or six baked potatoes, until six ounces of potato flour have been obtained. Mix with this two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Boat the mixture thoroughly, and form it into small balls. Drop these in boil- ing salt and water, and bo careful to do this with a metal spoon, and to dip it into boiling water each time it is used. Serve the klosse with soup. Or, take the same weight of potato floui-. Beat it until smooth with two ounces of butter which has boon beaten to a cream, and add two ounces of finoly-gratod bread-crumbs, bne ounce of grated parmesan, a , little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, tlie yolks of two and the white of one egg. Mould the klosse, and boil them as above. Serve on a hot dish, with fried bread-crumbs sprinkled over them. Time to boil the klosse, ten minutes. Probable cost, Gd. or 8d. for thiu (piantity. Suflicient for five or six persons. Potato Klosse. Sweet (a German dish).— Boat four ounces of tresh butter to a cream. Add to this a pinch of salt, five or six large lumps of sugar which have been well rubbed upon the rind of a fresh lemon and afterwards crushed to powder, the well-beaten yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of finely- grated bread-crumbs, and as much potato flour, or flour scooped out of freshly-baked potatoes, as will make a thick firm paste. Form this into balls the size of a walnut, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and ivy in hot fat until they are equally and brightly browned. Drain them on blotting paper, and serve piled high on a white d'oyley, with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Mould.—Beat an egg thoroughly, and mix with it a third of a pint of boiling cream or milk, a table-spoonful of sugar, a little grated lemon-rind, and as much cold boiled potato beaten till smooth or grated as will form a stiff thick batter. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a well- heated oven, '^r^^len it is nicely browned, turn it out, and serve very hot. Time to bake, half an hour or more. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato MtLffins.—Scoop the inside from four large freshly-baked potatoes. Beat this, flour until it is quite smooth, and add to it a pinch of salt, two ounces of clarified butter, and as much warm water as will make a thin batter. Beat three eggs, and add them to the mixtiu-e, together with three pints of best flour; Dissolve a tea-.spoonful of soda in a pint of lukewai-m water, knead this with a cupful of fresh yeast into the dough, and let it rise all night. Tiie next morning bake the muffins in rings upon a griddle, and when one side is lightly browned, turn them upon the other. Wlien to be eaten, tear the muffin a little round the edge, toast it on both sides, divide, butter, and afterwards quarter it. Time to bake the muffins, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Id.each. Potato, Nutritive Properties ot the.—In two parts of potato there are :— Water Albumenoid Matters . •' ■ Starch ^'^"^ Sugar • 3-2 0-2 3-2 0-5 Dextrine Fat Woody Fibre Mineral Matter or AVater . . . • Flesh and Force-producers Force-producers . Mineral Matter . 7r)-2 1-4 22-5 0-9