( 949 ) SWE SWE flvreetbreads. ^ces. Time, ten minutes to fry the Sweetbreads, Larded (a la Financiere). —Soak four sweetbreads, boil thorn quickly till they are firm but not at all hard, cool them, then lai'd them evenly and thickly with thin strips of fat bacon. Butter a baking-dish, and spread a layer of sliced carrots, onions, and celery at the bottom. Lay the sweetbreads upon the vegetables, and pour round them as much stock as will barely come up to the lard- ing. Put them in a sharp oven, and bake imtil done enough, basting them frequently with the liquor. When they are done enough, and the smi'ace is brightly browned, dish them as follows:—Put a croustade in a dish, and fill it with Toulouse or financiere ragout. Place the sweetbreads against the sides of the crous- tade, and garnish the dish as prettily as possible. If hked, Toulouse ragout may be used for the croustade instead of financiere ragoiit, and then the dish becomes Sweetbread a la Toulouse The croustade may be made as follows :—Tak( an oval loaf one day old. Cut off the rounc top, and scoop out the crumb of the loaf leaving three-quarters of an inch of bread al roimd, and at the bottom. Pare away the crus and dip the case into oiled butter. Put it ii the oven till it begins to harden, then agaii dip it in butter, and place it again in the over till it acquires a Little colour, when it will be ready for use. Time to bake the sweetbreads, about half an hour. Sweetbreads, Minced, in Paper Cases.—Take some cold di-esssed sweetbreads, and cut them into dice. Take an equal <iuantity of mushrooms and cut them up also. Stew the mushrooms in butter, and add a slice ■of fat bacon, the sweetbreads, and a little parsley, pepper, and salt. One or two shal- lots may be added if liked. Simmer over a gentle fire till the mushrooms are done enough. Drain off the fat, take out the parsley, and place the preparation in small paper cases which have been thoroughly oiled. Sprinkle a pinch of savoury herbs on the top, and covej each one with finely-grated bread-crumbs Put the cases in the oven for a moment tha they may be thoroughly heated, squeeze int( each a few drops of lemon-juice, add a spoonfu -of rich gravy, and serve very hot. Dish th( mmced sweetbreads on a napkin. Time t( simmer the mixture, about a quarter of ai hour. Sweetbreads, Patties of .—Cold dressec sweetbread, if cut into quarter-inch dice an( prepared according to the directions alread> given for making sweetbread croquettes, may b( used for filling small patties or vol-au-ven cases. They should be put into the oven for i minute or two to make them quite hot, anc served on a hot napkin. This mince may als( be enclosed m a circular piece of pastry of th( me of a crown piece, and fried in hot fat til the pastry la sufliciently cooked. They shouh tnen be dramed and piled on a napkin. Sweetbreads, Pie of.—Take two oi more fresh sweetbreads. Soak, blanch, anc cool them, then cut each one into three pieces and simmer them in white stock with about two dozen mushrooms. Let them simmer for a quarter of an hour. Lay them in a dish, put the mushrooms among them, and also six or eight veal forcemeat balls, the green tops of a quarter of a hundred sticks of asparagus, and the hard-boiled yolks of three or four eggs. Thicken the gravy with white thickening, add pepper and salt if required, and pour it over the meat. Lay slices of fat bacon on the top of the meat, cover all with good pastry, and bake the pie in a moderately-heated oven. Time, according to size. Probable cost of sweet- breads, Is. 6d. to 5s. each.