( Bil ) PHE PET six bitter ones which have been blanched and chopped tine. Roll out half a pound of good pufl'-paste to the thickness of half an inch, spread the mixtm-e upon it, and stamp it out m fancy shapes, such as rings, diamonds, hearts, &c. Bake the morceaux on a buttered tin in a well-heated oven, and let them get cold before they are used. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. Pewter, Vessels of.—There are three kinds of pewter in common use, called " plate- metal," "triple," and "ley." Plate-metal is said to be formed of 112 parts of tin, six or seven of antimony, and a small portion of brass or copper to harden it. It is the best kind, and used for making dishes. The sort termed triple is used for alehouse pots, and is com- posed of lead and tin, with a little brass. The ley pewter, used for wine and spirit measures, has more lead. Lead being a cheaper article than tin, it is the interest of the manufacturer to employ as much as he can of the former metal; and, consequently, pewter is apt to contain too much of it. Pewter Vessels, To Clean.—Pewter vessels may be cleaned by means of emery powder or whiting, or with a solution of potadi or of soda to remove grease. Pheasant.—The pheasant, almost more than any other bii-d, requires to be hung as long as it possibly can be with safety. When this is done, the flesh acquii-es a delicious flavour, peculiar to itself ; when it is not done, the flesh is tough and flavourless. The length of time that the bird should be kept depends, of course, upon the state of the weather. In cold, frosty weather three weeks may be safely per- mitted ; in warm, damp weather four or five days ^viU probably be found sufficient. As a general rule, the bird is ready for the spit when it begins to smell slightly, and to change colour; certainly it should never be cooked until the blood begins to drop from the bill. The hen pheasant is more delicate in flavour than the cock. The old birds may be known by the length and sharpness of the spurs, which in the young ones are short and round. Young pheasants are, of course, to be preferred. These birds are in season from October to February. Pheasant (a la Bonne Femme).—Pick, draw, and singe a well-hung pheasant, and put it into a buttered stewpan with three ounces of good beef dripping, and six ounces of ham, fat and lean together, cut into inch squares. Fry over a gentle fire until the pheasant is equally and lightly browned all over, then add a table-spoonful of chutnee, and three or four large Spanish onions cut into thin slices. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer gently until the pheasant is done enough, and the onions are quite soft. Put the bird on a hot dish. Beat the onions over the fire for eight or ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and put them round the bird. Serve imme- diately. Time, about an hour to stow the pheasant. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. when in full season. Pheasant (a la Sainte Alliance). An epi- cure's dish.—Take a well-hung cock pheasant draw it, and truss it for roasting. Stuff it with a forcement made as follows:—Mince finely the flesh and intestines of two woodcocks or snipes, add to them two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, a good pinch of cayenne, a small bunch of savoury herbs finely powdered, and as many chopped truffles as will be requii-ed to fill the pheasant. Truss the bird firmly, and roast it before a clear fire, basting liberally with fresh FHEASANT. butter. Lay under it, in the pan, a round of toasted bread upon which a little of the stuffing has been spread, and serve the bird on the toast. Brillat Savarin, with whom this recipe originated, says that a pheasant prepared thus is fit for beings better than men. Send brown gravy and bread sauce to table separately. Time to roast, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour and a quarter, according to the size. Probable cost of pheasants, 3s. when in full season. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant and Macaroni.—Pick the meat from the remains of a cold roast pheasant; carefully remove the skin and sinews, and with two forks pull the flesh into pieces about half an inch long. Weigh it, and put it aside until wanted. Place the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with as much water as will cover them, and let them simmer gently until all the goodness is drawn out, and the sauce is so much reduced that it will merely moisten the meat; then, supposing that the latter weighs about half a pound, put with the gravy two shallots, a little salt and 'pepper, half a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a table-spoonful of sherry. Thicken with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with two ounces of butter, and let the gravy simmer gently twenty minutes longer. Strain it, put it back into the saucepan, and let it boil up. A few minutes before the pheasant is to bo served put the meat into the gravy, let it warm through without boiling, then pour it into the centre of a hot dish, and place round it some macaroni prepared as follows ;—Thi-ow six ounces of good macaroni into three pints of boiling water, add a little pepper and salt, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain well, and put it back into the saucepan with a pint of good stock, a small tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of unmixed mustard, half a