( 1112 ) "WHI ■Wliitebait,Devilled.—Frythowiiitobait in tho usual way till it is crisp. Lift the basket out of the fat, diako tho fish, and sijrinkle over it a little suit and black popper. Plunpe the basket again into tho fat, and let it remain for a few seconds. Drain the fish, and turn it upon a napkin. If a red devil is required, sprinkle a little cayenno upon the fish (in addi- tion to the black pepper already used) after it is taken out of tho fat for the last time. It is a common practice with cooks to take whitebait which has been fried and served in tho ordinary w^ay, to sprinkle black popper upon it, to plunge it into the hot fat, and, after allowing it to remain for a short time to drain it, sprinkle it again with pepper, and serve a second time as devUled whitebait. Whitebait, Dressed.—Take the white- bait out of the w;iter with tho fingers, drain them, and throw them into a cloth upon which flour has been strewn. Shake them in the cloth to make the flour adhere to them, then toss them in a large wide sieve to free them from the superfluous flour. If the fish stick together, separate them, but they wUl not do this if they are fresh. Have ready plenty of boiling beef-fat (this is much better than lard, which is usually recommended), put the white- bait a few at a time into a wire basket, plunge in the boiling fat, and leave them for a minute or two. At the end of that time shake them to keep them from sticking together, and when they are slightly crisp without being browned they are done enough. Drain them from the fat while they are still in the basket, sprinkle a little salt upon them, pile them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Send quarters of lemon and brown bread and butter to table with them. Time to fry the whitebait, a few minutes. W Hitebait, Mock.—Take cooked or un- cooked white fish of any kind; uncooked fish is of course the best. Divide it into strips an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide. Dip those into frjring batter, put them into a wire frying- basket, and plunge them into very hot fat. Let them remain till they are lightly browned. Drain them, pile on a hot dish, and serve with cayenne, quarters of lemons, and thin brown bread and butter. The frying batter may be made by beating together briskly and tho- roughly a table-spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of milk, and one egg. Flour varies in quality, so that some kinds require more liquid than others. The batter, however, should be a little thicker than cream. Time to fry the fish, four to five minutes. White Bean (see White Kidney Beans). White Bechamel Sauce, Cold (to mask boiled poultry, turbot, &c., which is to be served cold).—Make the bechamel of nicely- flavoured white stock, so strong that it will jelly when cold. A spoonful of gelatine dis- solved in a little white stock will answer the purpose if- jellied stock is not at hand. Mix with it when hot an equal quantity of milk or cream, strain it into a basin, thicken with arrowroot, and when cold it will be fit for use. It should be thick enough to adhere to tho bird, ice, which it is to UKisk. White Bechamel Sauce (economical and good).—Good IjcclianK 1 muv be made of tho remains of a cold roast fowl. Break up the bones, and ]mt them into a saucepan with two or throe bacon-bones, a small car- rot, a * small onion, a very small piece of mace, two peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Pour over the ingredients as much water as will entirely cover them, and simmer gently for two hours. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Half an hour before the stock is taken from the fire, stir into it a tea-spoonful of gelatine which has been soaked for half an hour in two table-spoonfuls of water. .Strain the stock into a bowl, and when it is cold re- move the fat from the surface. Put it into a clean saucepan, and simmer till it is reduced to about three-quarters of a pint. Mix with it an equal quantity of boiling cream or milk, slightly thicken with arrowroot, add salt to taste, and it will be ready for use. Time, three to four hours. Probable cost, 4d., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for a pint and a half of white bechamel sauce. White Bechamel Sauce (to make a small quantity).—Put two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire briskly with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste. Add gradually three- quarters of a pint of milk, together with a small onion, two or three sticks of celery cut up small, half a carrot thinly sliced, half a bay-' leaf, a very small sprig of thyme, a bimch of parsley, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Stir the sauce over a quick fire till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain it into a basin, and it vrill be -fit for use. By increasing the quantities, and preserving the proportions, a larger quantity of sauce may be made if re- quired. Time to boil the sauce, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for a little more than half a pint of sauce. White Beet, To Dress the Leaves of.—Pick the leaves, and wash them in three or four waters. Throw them into boiling water slightly salted, and keep them boiling quickly till tender. Drain the water thoroughly from them, chop them small, and heat them in a saucepan with a little butter, pepper, and salt. They may be used as a substitute for spinach. Time to boil the leaves, twenty minutes or more. White Cabbage, To Pickle.—Take a fij-m white cabbage; remove the outer leaves, sprinkle salt upon it, and leave it for a couple of hours. Wash it in cold water, drain it, and cut it into very thin shreds. ]\Iake some brine sufficiently strong to float an egg, pour this cold over the shred cabbage, and leave it for a fortnight. Stir every day. Boil as much vinegar as will entirely cover it for five minutes with spices in tho proportion of a ([uarter of an ounce of whole ginger, a quarter of an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of long pepjier, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of turmeric mixed smoothly with a Httlo cold vinegar, a tea-spoonful of mustard