TUB TUB ( 1016 ) or turned into any fanciful shapes before being boiletl. Time to boil, twenty minuteH to an hour and a half, according to age and size. Probable cost, 6d. per bunch. Sutticiont for fivo or six persons. Turnips, Brown Pur6e of.—Instead of blanching the turnips, sweat thoni on a slow tire in a little biitter. Talat care tbey do not burn. When they are well done, moisten with three spoonfuls of sauce tourneo and one spoon- ful of veal gravy. Give them a good season- ing, rub them through a tamis, and send up with fried toasts of broad. Never omit putting in a small lump of sugar before you serve up, to overcome the bitter taste of the turnips. Such entremets are not much ap- proved of in England, bat in winter, and in the country, you very often have no choice for second courses. Turnips, Duck, Braised, with, {see Duck, Braised, with Turnips). Turnips, for Garnish.—Very effective- looking tlowers for garnishing cold dishes such as roast turkeys, tongues, &c., may be made with turnips. Skill in making these can only be acquired by practice, and in order to attain it the best plan would be to procure a small sound turnip, a sharp penknife, a little liquid cochineal, a paint brush, and a real camellia, or any other suitable flower, as a pattern. Cut and shape the turnip, and endeavour to imitate the real flower as closely as possible. Paint the edges of the leaves a rosy tint with the cochineal, push in a little piece of stick for a stalk, and fasten two or three bay-leaves round the flower. Turnips for Garnish (another way). —When turnips are to be used for garnishing dishes they may be prepared either white or coloured. Pare the thick skin from them, wash and drain them, and either cut them into slices of uniform size, or turn them to any shape that may be desired. Throw them into boiling water, let them boil quickly for five minutes, then drain and dry them. If white turnip garnish is required, put the blanched turnips into a saucepan, cover with boiling stock, add a small lump of sugar and a little salt and cayenne, and let them simmer gently until they are tender without being broken. Let them remain in the stock till they are wanted. If brown turnip garnish is to be used, prepare the turnips, and blanch them as before. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, throw in the turnips, and shake them over a gentle fire till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and if not sufficiently tender, stew them for a few minutes longer before serving. Time, about ten minutes to colour the turnips, twenty minutes to stew them. Probable cost, turnips, 6d. to 7d. per bunch. Turnips, Fried. —Boil three or four turnips till they are three-parts dressed. Take them up, drain"them, cut them into slices, and fry them in hot fat till they are lightly broNvned and quite tender. Drain them, and serve with fried or boiled cutlets. Or peel them and cut them into very thin slices. Let them lie in i cold water for an hour, and drain them. Dis- ^ solve a slice of butter in a stewpan, and in this steam a table-spoonful of chopped onion for live minutes. Put in the shces of tui-nip, sprinkle a little popper and salt over, and let them steam till they are soft. A spoonful or two of water may be added if there is any fear that th(y will l)urn. Turnips, Giblets with {nee GilAets with Turnips). Turnips, Glaces.—Select a few fine turnips; turn, in the shape of pears, a sufficient number to cover or to lill the dish; stew them in a little broth with a little sugar, which reduce to glaze, and add to it a little glaze. AVhen equally glazed, dish them; take a spoon- j ful of Spanish sauce to detach the glaze that I remains in the stewpan, with a small bit of I butter twice as big as a walnut, which work with the sauce. Pour the sauce over the turnips after you have given it a good sea- soning. Turnips, Glazed, with Gravj^.—Pare four or five large turnips, wash and drain them, and cut them into slices of uniform size, or turn them into a ball or pear shape. Dissolve in a deep saucepan as much fresh butter as will cover the bottom of the pan, throw in the tur- j nips, and fry till they are brightly browned. Drain the butter from them, and pour over as much good stock as will cover them. Let I them simmer gently until they are nearly tender. Remove the lid, put the saucepan over a quick fire, and let the sauce boil quickly until it begins to thicken. Take the turnips up, being careful not to break them, arrange I neatly on a dish, and pour the gravy over them. I Time, about twenty minutes to simmer the I turnips. Probable cost, turnips, 5d. to 7d. per bunch. Sufficient for four or five persons. Turnips, Glazed, with White or Brown Sauce.—Take five or six small, 1 sound, white turnips. Peel and wash them, I and turn them to the size and shape of to}^- marbles. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a deep pan, and sprinkle an ounce of pounded ' sugar into it. Put in the turnips, and fry [ till they are covered with glaze. Pour over them a quarter of a pint of good white or brown sauce, and let them simmer gently until tender. Season with pepper and salt. Arrange the turnips in a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Turnips, Large, Stuflfed.—Boil whole four or five large turnips. Take them up, dram them, cut a slice from the top, and scoop out the middle. Beat the pulp which has been taken out with a little butter, flour, pepper, salt, and cream, and add the yolk of an egg. Fill the empty spaces with the mixture, put the tops on againli and brush them over with beaten egg. Brown them in a brisk oven, or before the fire, and serve very hot. Time to boil, from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Turnips, Mashed.—Wash and imre the turnips, and throw them into cold water as