POT ( 637 ) POT Potatoes with Sauce Piquant.— Wash, pare, and half boil some large potatoes. Drain them, and when nearly cold cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Cut two or three i-ashers of fat bacon into small pieces, place them in a stewpan with a finely- minced onion, and let them steam until the onion is tender. Add a little pepper and salt, a lump of sugar, a bay-leaf, and as much stock or water as will barely cover the sliced potatoes. This sauce should be thickened with flour to make it of the consistencj of thick cream, and as much vinegar may be added as will make it agreeably acid. Let the sauce boil a few minutes, put in the sliced potatoes, and let them simmer till they are tender without being broken. Serve very "hot, with the sauce poured over them. Time, an hour or more. Probable cost, potatoes. Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient, six large potatoes for two or three persons. Potatoes with White Sauce.—Take some dressed potatoes, cut them in pieces, pour white sauce {see AVhite Sauce) over them, and serve. Potatoes with White Sauce (another way).—Thicken some butter with flour in a stewpan, add some milk or cream, with chives and parsley cut small, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and boil these ingredients to the consistence of sauce. When ready, put in some cooked potatoes cut in slices, let them remain till hot through, and serve. Pot-au-feu.—This is a common dish in France, and is to be met with in almost everj- household. The foundation is beef, and if other meats are used they are reserved to make their appearance under different disguises. The parts most generally used are the leg, shoulders, and ribs. The upper parts of the leg are, however, the best for the purpose. The bouillon or broth is flavoured with vege- tables that are boiled in it, and these are served with the bouilli or boiled beef. In making pot-au-feu it must be remembered that the stewpan must be scrupulously clean. It is usually made of tinned metal or earthenware. The meat should be quite fi-esh, should be simmered very gently but continuously, and skimmed with great care. The fire should be steady but slow, and should be mended very gently when necessarj-, that the ebullition may not be increased. The steAvpan should not be very closely covered, or the bouillon will not be clear—and the true French bouillon is clear, limpid, of a golden-amber colour, and exhales pleasantly the combined aromas of the various meats and vegetables. The latter should be added after the meat has simmered half the time, and they should not be allowed to remain in the pan after they are done enough, or they will absorb some of its flavour. A little caramel or burnt sugar may be used to colour the bouillon, and this should be added the last thing. Some prefer the bouillon the first day, and some the second. To preserve it, it should be strained, put into a clean earthenware pan without cover, kept in a cool place, and boiled up every day in summer and every three days in winter. It should bo remembered that if either turnips or garlic are used the broth will not keep so well as if they were omitted. It is the French custom to put small slices of toasted bread into the soup tureen, to pour the bouillon over them, and to let these soak a few minutes before serving. The follow- ing are the detailed instructions for making pot-au-feu:—Take four pounds of fresh beef and any bones that may be at hand. Bind th& meat to keep it in shape, and break the bones into small pieces. Put the bones into the stew- pan, lay the meat upon them, pour over them, three quarts of cold water, and add a tea-spoon- ful of salt. Heat the liquid slowly and care- fully, removing the scum as it rises. Keep adding a table-spoonful of cold water to assist its doing so, and skim most particularly until the soup is quite clear. When it is thoroughly skimmed, cover tightly to keep out the dust, and let it simmer very gently for two hours. Add an onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, five or six outer sticks of celerj', a leek, two carrots, a bay-leaf, a turnip, and a tea-spoonful of whole pepper. The vegetables should be added gradually, that the temperature of the soup may not be lowered by them. Let the vegetables simmer gently and continuously for two hours longer, or until they are tender. Add a little more pepper and salt if required, and serve the bouillon in a tureen; and as a remove, the bouilli and the vegetables. Time, five hours from the time the liquid has once boiled. Probable cost, beef, lid. per pound. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Pot-au-Feu (another way).—Make up the fire so that it wUl bum for three hours without, putting on coals; taking care that it is not too fierce. For the little pot-au-feu (enough for four persons), take a pound and haK of meat—for choice let it be the rump or round of beef—ten pennyweights of bone (about the quantity which is sent with the meat), fom- quarts of water filtered, tV?o pennyweights of salt dry and well powdered, ten pennyweights of carrots, ten pennj^weights of onions, fifteen pennyweights of leeks, one pennyweight of celery, one pennyweight of cloves, ten penny- weights of turnips, and two pennj'weights of parsnips. The cloves should be stuck in one of the onions. By pennyweight, it should be explained, is here meant the weight of an or- dinary bronze penny, which is the third part of an ounce. For the greater pot-au-feu (for high days and holidays), take three pounds of moat, one pound of bones, six quarts of water, four pennyweights of salt, twenty pennyweights of carrots, twenty pennyweights of onions, thirty pennyweights of leeks, three pennyweights of celery, two pennyweights of cloves, twenty pennyweights of turnips, and four penny- weights of parsnips. Be careful that the beef is fresh. Stale and dry meat makes bad soup and worse pot-au-feu. Tie up the meat with a tape to keep it in shape. Smash the bones.. Put the bones in the saucepan first, then the meat, then the water, cold. Put on the fire, add the salt, and make the pot boil. As soon as the scum begins to rise, throw in half a pint of cold water for the great, and a gill for the small pot-au-feu, and skim with a perforated spoon. Do both three times. Wipe