( 1022 ) TUB TUB part, is cut up with tho fat. Lay thuao piucoB to got cold botwcou two dishes, the bottom ono I of which should bo laid upsido down. Dissolvo ' an ouiK-o of frosh butter in ii stowpan. Cut a large onion into slices, and fry these in the butter till thoy are brightly browned. I'our over them tho stock in which the head was l)oilcd, add tho bones and trimmings, and simmer the soup, carefully removing the scum until no more rises. Put in with it some outer sticks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with foiu- cloves, a handful of parsley, a sprig of inai-joram, basil, and savory, a very small sprig of lemon thyme, one or two sage- leaves, half a quarter of an ounce of allspice, tho thin rind of half a lemon, and a little salt and pepper if required. Sinuner gently for an hour and a half, and strain the soup through a tamis. Dissolve thi-ee ounces of butter in a clean saucepan, and mix three ounces of flour smoothly with it. Stir over a brisk fire till it is brightly browned, and moisten by adding, very gradually, a pint of the stoek. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, then add the thickening to the soup. Put the pieces of head into the stewpan, and let them simmer gently until the meat is quite tender, but it must not be overdone. It will need from half an horn- to an hour. Add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, half a tea-spooniul of essence of an- chovy, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a claret-glassful of good madeira or sherry. Have ready prepared quenelles or forcemeat balls, as for turtle soup, brain balls, or egg balls. Put them into the tureen, pour the soup over, and serve very hot. Time, eight to nine hours. Probable cost, calf's head varies in price from 2s. 6d. to 6s. or 8s., according to the time of year: it is most expensive at Christmas. Sufficient for two quarts of soup. Turtle Soup, Mock (made with cow heel).—"Wash, scald, and thoroughly cleanse a cow heel, split it in halves, and put it into a large stewpan with three-pennyworth of fresh bones broken into small pieces, six ounces of lean imdressed ham, or a large piece of bacon- rind, three onions, three carrots, a turnip, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay- loaves, two cloves, six allspice, eight pepper- corns, a pinch of cayenne, three sage-leaves, half a dozen outer sticks of celery, and a tea- spoonful of sugar. Pour over these ingredients a gallon of cold water. Bring the Uquor to the boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently for six hours. Take out the cow heel, remove the boneS; and press the meat between two dishes. Let the soup simmer another horn- with the bones and trimmings; strain it, pour it out, let it stand until cold, and remove the fat from the top. Cut the meat into neat squares, and dredge a little flour over them. Fry in hot fat till they are lightly and equally browned, then drain them on a sieve. Dissolve four ounces of butter in a frying-pan, and stir into this three table-spoonfuls of flour, a tea- spoonful of curry-powder, and a tea-spoonful of dry mustard. Beat this mixture with the back of a wooden spoon, moisten with half a pint of poup, and add a tea-spoonful of ancho\7^ sauco. Boil for tvvcTity minutes, strain, and mix it with tho rest of the stcjck. Put in tlio ijieces of I meat, and simmer them gently till tlioy are heated tlirough ; add a glasnf ul of sherry or madeira, a dessert - spoonful of lemon-juice, ]jut some quenelles into the tureen; jjour the soup over, and serve inmtiediatoly. Tim<;, eight hours. Probable cost, cow heels, 4d. to 8d. each. Suflicient for a dozen pei-sons or more. Turtle Soup, Mock (made with pig's head).—lake half u pig's head, scald it thoroughly, and put it into a saucejian with tlu-ee quarts of good, nicely-flavoui-ed stock made from bones. Lot it simmer gently for an hour and a half; take it up, let it partially cool, cut the meat into neat squares, and lay these between two dishes, the bottom one being placed upside down to keep the meat from curling. Put the bones and trimmings of the head back into the saucepan, and let them simmer an hour longer with a couple of bay- leaves, and a little more seasoning, should the stock require it, and be very careful to remove the scum as it rises. Pour out the soup, let it remain until the next day, and then take the cake of fat from the top. Thicken with brown thickening, and after it has boiled let it simmer by the side of the fire, and as the fat is thrown up, remove it. When no more rises, put in the pieces of meat. Let them boil gently till tender, add a glassful of sherry and a pinch of cayenne, and serve very hot. Mock turtle soup made with pig's head is frequently objected to, because it so frequently tastes greasy. Con- sequently great care should be taken to get rid of the fat. This can only be done by making the soup the day before it is wanted, so that it can be poured out, and when cold the cake of fat can be taken from the top. As even after this a great deal of fat may be held in solution in the soup, the liquor should be boiled again in a covered saucepan, and afterwards simmered gently by the side of the fire, and the fat re- moved as it is throvm up. The stock for this soup may be made as follows :—Procure three- pennyworth of fresh bones. Wash them well, and break them into small pieces. Put them into a large saucepan, and pour over them four quarts of cold water. Add a large carrot, a turnip, three onions (one of them stuck ^^•ith three cloves), a handful of parsley, four allspice, half a blade of mace, a sprig of marjoram and basil, a very small sprig of lemon thj-me, eight peppercorns, half a dozen outer sticks of celery, and a little salt. Bring the liquor to the boil, skim carefully, di-aw it to the side, and let it simmer gently for five hours. Stmin it, and it will be ready for the pig's head. Quenelles should be served in the soup. Time, eight or nine hours. Probable cost, pig's head, 6d. per pound. Sufficient for a dozen people. Turtle Soup, Quenelles for {set Quenelles for Turtle Soup). Turtle Soup, To Heat—When turtle soup is bought already prepared from tho con- fectioner, wliich is the plan usually adopted m private houses, it should bo heated as follows :— Cover closely the jar containing tho soup, put it into a pan of bollinc: wntor, and lot tho poup l)oil gentlv until it is quite hot: turn it into