VOL ( 1097 ) WAF Vol-au-vents.—Eocipes for the follo-ftTng vol-nu-vents will be found under their respec- tive headings:— Croquettes Egg Fruit Lobster Oyster Plum Sweetbread Veal. Vol-au-vents, Green Gooseberry.— Prepare some small vol-au-vents in the usual way, and bake them. Take off the covers, scoop out the inside, and let them get cold. "When wanted, fill them with a compote of green gooseberries. Place the covers upon them, or, if preferred, put a little whipped cream, or Devonshire cream, in their places; serve on a neatly-folded napkin. The gooseberries may be prepared as follows :—Top and tail a pint of green gooseberries, and put them into boihng water for two minutes, then throw them into cold water which has been mixed with a table- spoonful of vinegar (this is to restore their colour). Boil six ounces of refined sugar in half a pint of water for ten minutes, put in the gooseberries, and let them simmer gently till tender but unbroken. Strain them, and if necessary put the syrup back again, and let it boil a few minutes till it is very thick, then pour it over the fi-uit. When cold it will be ready for the vol-au-vents. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to simmer the gooseberries. Vol-au-vents, Orange.—Prepare the vol-au-vents, and bake them in the usual way. Let them get cold. Pare the rind vcrj- thinly from three or four large oranges, put it into a saucepan with four ounces of loaf sugar and half a pint of wafer, and boil to a clear syrup. Strip the white skin from the oranges, remove the pips, and divide them into quarters. Thicken the syrup by pouring it when boiling upon a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot which has been mixed smoothly with a Httle cold water, and stirring it well. Add a little brandy and two or three drops of cochineal, and pour the syrup upon the fruit. When cold it will be ready for the vol-au-vents. Vol-au-vents, Sweet (a la Parisienne). —Make some small vol-au-vents, and have some good jam or stewed friut ready to fill them. As soon as they are taken from the oven, sprinkle finely-powdered white sugar thickly on the edges, and hold a red-hot shovel over them tiU the sugar melts. Fill them with the fruit, pile whipped cream on the top, and serve. Time, ten or twelve minutes to bake the vol- au-vents. Vol-au-vents, To Pill.—A vol-au-vent is simply a case in which are served delicate and savoury ragouts of dressed meat, fish, &c. When preparing these, it is very important that the cook should make the sauces in which the meat is heated rcry thick. TJnless this is done, the liquor will be in danger of oozing through the crust, and this wiU entirely spoil the appearance of the vol-au-vent. Also the meat should be simmered only in the sauce ; if it is allowed to boil, it will in all probability be hard and unixilatable. J J* w Wafer Biscuits.—Mix an ounce and a half of finely-sifted sugar with half a pound of flour. Eub'in a small slice of fresh butter, and work the mixture into a stiff paste with the well-whisked white of a fresh egg and a little cream. Cover the paste, and leave it in a cool place for a short time. Divide it into smaU portions of equal size, and roll these into rounds as thin as possible, and about two and a half inches in diameter. Bake on buttered tins in a brisk oven. Time to bake the wafers, three or four minutes. Wafer Biscuits (another way).—Mix thoroughly two ounces of sifted sugar with two ounces of fine flour. Add a drop of oil of cinnamon and a drop of oil of cloves, or if preferred a little grated nutmeg, and the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Make the mixture into a thin liquid paste. Butter some tinned baking-sheets; put on these portions of the batter four inches apart, and the size of a walnut, and with the finger spread them into rounds the size of the top of a tumbler, and almost touching each other. Bake in a brisk oven till they are lightly browned. Take them up when soft, and either roll them upon a round piece of wood or turn them to the shape of buns. Serve with custards or-ices. Time to bake the wafers, three or four minutes. Wafer Biscuits, Almond.— Blanch, peel, and pound till smooth four ounces of Jordan almonds. Mix with them two ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, and moisten the mixtvire with the white of an egg. Heat an untinned baking-sheet, and rub it over mth pure white wax. Let it get cold, then place on it, four inches apart from each other, portions of the paste the size of a penny-piece. Flatten these with a knife till they almost touch one another and are about the size of the top of a tumbler. Blanch and chop two ounces of almonds, and mix them with an ounce of sugar and a tea-spoonful of white of egg. Sprinkle them on the surface of the wafers, and bake in a gentle oven. • When sufficiently baked, roll them whilst warm round a piece of wood, and leave them till crisp. Wafer Cakes.—Wafer cakes are excel- lent tea-cakes, and they do not take long to make, although a little practice is required to make them successfully. Beat three eggs quite Hght; wash rather less than a quarter of a pound of butter, so as to extract the salt from it, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar; add to the mixtiire the beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of rose-water, and enough sifted flour to make a thin batter. Stir with a wooden spoon till the batter is perfectly smooth and so light that it will break when it falls against the side of the vessel. Heat the wafer- irons ; not too hot, however, or the batter will bum. Grease the iron with butter tied in a linen rag, the rag being twice doubled ; fill the iron with the batter, and then close it. Place it on the fire so that both sides wUl heat at once; if this cannot be done, turn the iron frequently.