VIN VOL ( 1095 ) Vinegar, Wholesomeness of.—Vine- gar in aniall quantities ia a grateful and salu- tary stimulus to the stojuach, correcting the putresceucy of animal food, and the flatulency of vegetable. Its use, however, is improper in valetudinary cases, especially for gouty persons. Pickles are merely vegetable receptacles for vinegai", but the vegetable being hardened by the acid renders it somewhat difficult of di- gestion, and therefore vinegar in the form of pickles is not much to be recommended. We may add on this subject the remarks of Dr. Paris in his work on " Diet." " Vinegar," he says, " in small quantities, is a grateful and wholesome stimulant; it will often check the chemical fermentation of certain substances in the stomach, and prevent vegetable matter in its raw state from inducing flatulence; but its use requii'es caution, and in some morbid states of the system it is obviously improper. Fatty and gelatinous substances frequently appear to be rendered more digestible in the stomach by the addition of vinegar, although it is difficult to offer either a cheniical or physiological ex- planation of the fact. The native vegetable acids may also be occasionally substituted; the addition of lemon-juice to rich and gelatinous aoups jenders them less liable to disagree with the stomach; and the custom of eating apple- sauce with pork is undoubtedly indebted for its origin to the same cause." Vinegar, Wine, Trench Method of Making.—The following is the French method of making vinegar. The wine de- stined for vinegar is mixed in a large tun with a quantity of wine lees, and the whole being transferred into cloth sacks placed within a large iron-bound vat, the liquid matter is forced through the sacks by superincimibent pressure. What passes through is put into large casks set upright, having a small aperture in their top. In these it is exposed to the heat of the sun in summer, or to that of a stove in winter. Fermentation supervenes in a few days. If the heat should rise too high, it is lowered by cool air and the addition of fresh wine. In the skilful regulation of the fermentative temperature chiefly consists the art of making good wine vinegar. In summer the process is generally completed in a fortnight, in winter double the time is requisite. The vinegar is then run off into barrels, which contain several chips of birchwood. In about a fortnight it is found to be clarified, and is then fit for the market. It must be kept in close casks. Vinegars, Flavoured. — Vinegar mav be flavoured with herbs and spices, and a good store of these vinegars will prove of great service in cookery. All that is necessary is to procure the flavouring ingredients—such as celer>' or cress seed, chillies or capsicums, tarra- gon leaves, shallots, &c.—to put them in bottles, cover them with good cold boiled vinegar, and stopper them closely. In a week or two the vinegar will he sufficiently flavoured, and all that will be then necessary is to strain it off and bottle in small bottles for use. In nine cases out of ten the flavouring ingredients may have a second, and even a third, supplv of vinegar poured upon them. Tarragon and chilli vinegars are particularly useful for salads; while a few di'ops of garlic or shallot vinegar added to a pint of gravy will impart a par- ticularly fine flavoui'. Herbs also, if boiled for a short time in vinegar, will communicate their flavour to it, and the flavour of some fruits, when imparted to vinegar-, is very delicious. The acid thus made, when mixed with water and sUghtly sweetened, constitutes a refreshing summer beverage. Violet Tea.—This is a soothing beverage for persons suffering from bronchitis and similar affections. Put a tea-spoonful of dried violets in a jar, and pour upon them half a pint of boiling water. Let them infuse for five minutes, strain the liquor, sweeten with honey, and it will be fit for use. Virginia Pudding.—Butter a plain quart pudding-mould rather thicklj-, then stick dried cherries, fine raisins, or strips of candied peel in regular rows on the inside, place a slice of soaked bread-crumb over the fruit, and three- parts fill the inside with alternate layers of thin bread and butter and currants and grated nut- meg. Pour in as much custard as the bread will absorb, let the pudding soak for an hour, and steam it over boiling water, or bake in a moderate, oven. Turn out before serving, and send sweet sauce to table in a tureen. Time to steam, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Volaille, Puree de.—Mince very finely the white part of a cold fowl or turkey, then pound it in a mortar, put in two or three spoonfuls of white sauce, and pass it through a ' sieve, adding a little salt and white pepper, and warm the whole ; it may be served up with the legs grilled. It should not be too thin, but can be made the proper consistence by a greater or smaller quantity of white sauce or cream. Garnish with fried bread or paste cut into shapes. It may also be served up in a casserole or wall of rice and mashed potatoes, or with, poached eggs. Vol-au-vent.—A vol-au-vent presents one of the handsomest forms in which the remains of dishes can be served. It is generally fiUed with a mince, or ragout, or fricassee—or what- ever other name may be chosen—of dressed meat; and after this vol-au-vent case is made, there is abundant opportunity for the cook to display her skill, either in the richness and delicacy, or in the savoury nature of its contents. A vol-au-vent can be made success- fully only with the lightest puff paste. Full directions are giveU; ior making this under Paste, Puff, or FeuiUetsige. It should be remembered that the puff paste of which a vol-au-vent is made will be much better if it is prepared an hour or two before it is wanted, and placed in a cool situation till required. If the puff paste is not exceedingly light, the vol-au-vent will not rise properly, and so will have a very bad appearance. In rolling it, care must be taken to keep it perfectly square and even at the ends, as unless this is done the pastry cannot rise evenly. The pastry for a vol-au- vent ought to have six turns, and five minutes should bo allowed to elapse between each turn.