TAP ( 957 ) TAP two table-spoonfuls of taasy-juice, three ounces of fresh butter, and some slices of citron. 1 our over it a pint and a half of boihng cream or milk, sweeten, and when cold mix it; add the juice of a lemon and eight eggs beaten. It may bo either boiled or baked. Tapioca.—Tapioca is procured from a plant which grows in British Guiana, and is known to botanists by the name of Jatropha, or Manihot Janipha. The tapioca is procured from the root of the plant which, oddly enough, contains hydrocyanic acid; and it is said that the native Indians poison their ari-ows fi'om the juice of the root before they begin preparing the tapioca. The native cassava is also prepared from the same plant. Tapioca is a wholesome and nutritious farinaceous food very easy of di- gestion. It is used for puddings, for thicken- ing soups and sauces, and it is also simply boiled in milk or water as a food for invalids. When mixed with other flour it will make very good bread. It should be bought of a respect- able dealer, as a spui-ious kind is sometimes offered for sale made of gum and potato-flour. The jar in the store-cupboard which contains tapioca should be kept closely covered, or in- sects will get into it. TAPIOCA. Tapioca and Apple Pudding.—Wash a tea-cupful of tapioca, and soak it for an hour in a quart of cold water. Put it into a sauce- pan, set it on the fire, let it boil, then simmer it gently until it is smooth and clear, stirring it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. Half fill a moderate-sized pie-dish with cooking apples, pared, cored, and cut into thin slices. Bake these in a moderate oven until they are slightly softened, then sweeten the tapioca, flavour it in any way that may be agree- able, and pour it over the fruit. Bake the pudding until the apples have fallen. Any other fruit may be substituted for apples, such as strawberries, red currants, raspberries, &c. The pudding may be served hot, or in summer- time may be made with fresh fruit, turned out in a mould, and when cold oaten with milk or cream. Time, about one hour to bake the pudding. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tapioca and Tomatoes.—Soak a table- spoonful of tapioca in water for a couple of hours, set it to boil, adding a little more water till quite done to the consistency of porridge. Add pepper, salt, and a little fresh butter. Cut two tomatoes in half, remove pips and watery substance, sprinkle with a little pepper and salt. Fill each haU-tomato with the tapioca, sprinkle the top with grated parmesan and baked bread-crumbs, put them into the oven for twenty minutes, and serve. Tapioca Cake.—Tapioca is an article that swells very much, and which requires a long time to be done thoroughly. If you boil it over too brisk a fire, it will become tough; if over a very slow fire, it wiU be as mellow as marrow, and then it is extremely pleasant to the palate. Boil a pint of cream and a pint of milk wdth a little sugar and very little salt. Then add the peel of half a lemon; but if the taste of orange-flowers, roses, or vaniUa, &c., should be more agreeable, use them in preference, ac- cording to taste. Put a quai-ter of a pound of tapioca into the cream, and let it boil over a very slow fire ; when it is done throw in a piece of butter, and break the yolks of six eggs, which, beat up with it, and let them do over the stove. When you send up the first course, beat the whites of the eggs, pour them gently over the rest, and set the whole in a moderate oven. If you wish to make a cake, sprinkle a mould twice over with clarified butter and crumbs of bread : mix with the preparation some dried cherrie* and currants, and proceed as you would do for a souffle. AVTien done turn the mould upside- down in a dish, and send up hot Tapioca Custard. — Wash two table- spoonfuls of tapioca, and boU it gently in a pint of nulk until it is quite soft, stirring it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. Add a piece of butter the size of a walnut and two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and when these^ are thoroughly mixed draw the saucepan on one side that the preparation may cool a little. Beat four fresh eggs in a bowl, mix gradually with them part of the tapioca, then pour them into the remainder in the saucepan, and stir all over the fire until the custard is on the point of boiling. Turn it out, flavour with vanilla, ratafia, almond, or any other flavouring, and when it is cold put it into a glass dish. Just before serving, crush an ounce of macaroons to powder, and sprinkle them over the surface, or if preferred sift a little powdered cinnamon over the top. Time to simmer the tapioca, i about two hours. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient I for four or five persons. Tapioca for Invalids.—Wash a table- spoonful of tapioca, and soak it in a pint of water or milk and water for half an hour. Let it boil, then simmer it gently until it is quite clear, and stir it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. Sweeten it slightly, and flavour with brandy or wine if agreeable, if not, with cinnamon or orange or lemon-rind. If it is too thick add a little more water. Veal, mutton, or chicken broth may be Bubstituted