RIC ( 735 ) RIC it into a saucepan of boiKnf? water, and boil quickly for tivo minutes. Drain and dry it. Slice an onion, and fry in hot fat till it i3 lightly browned. Take it out and fry the rice iu the same butter over a gentle tire, tui-mng it about continually to keep it from burning. When it is lightly coloured, pour over it thi-ee pints of good gravy soup, lightly tinged with sjiffron powder, and let it simmer gently till tender. Add to the soup a slight seasoning of suit and cayenne, a thickening of flour and butter, and as much grated Parmesan as will season it. Boil the whole gently for ten minutes, and serve as hot as possible in a soup tureen. No. 2. Boil and dry the rice as above. Melt a slice of butter in a frying-pan, and fry in this the rice, first colouring it slightly with ground saffron, and seasoning with salt and cayenne. As the rice will burn very easily, it should be fried over a gentle fire, and should be thrown in just as the butter begins to simmer. When it is lightly browned throw in two table-spoon- fuls of raisins, picked and cleaned. Serve very hot. The rice must be boiled until it is tender but unbroken. Rice (a I'ltalienne).—No. 1. Wash half a pound of rice in several waters. Throw it into boiling water, and let it boU until tender. Drain and dry it. Wash and drain a moderate- sized cabbage, and shred it finely. Melt a slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, try in this four ounces of streaky bacon cut into dice, and add the shred cabbage, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and sa).t. A clove of garlic and a sprig of fennel may be also added, if liked. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew the cabbage as gently as possible for three-quarters of an hour. Put in the boiled rice, stew the whole a quarter of an hour longer, and serve the preparation piled high on a hot dish with grated Parmesan or Cheddar cheese sprinkled over the top. No. 2. Boil half a pound of rice, drain and dry it as before. Melt an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, fry in this a moderate-sized onion chopped small, and add the dry rice, the pulp of three baked potatoes, an ounce of grated Parmesan or Cheddar cheese, and a little pepper and salt. When the mixture is thoroughly heated pile it on a hot dish. Lay on the surface some filleted anchovies or sardines, and serve immediately. No. 3. BoU and dry the rice as before. Fry a chopped onion with a spoonful of salad-oil or an ounce of fresh butter till lightly browned. Add two tea- spoonfuls of curry-paste and half a pint of picked shrimps, and stir these over the fire for four or five minutes. Throw in the boiled rice and one ounce of grated Parmesan or Cheddar, and serve the preparation quite hot. No. 4. Boil and dry the rice as before. Fry it in hot fat, and mix with it any remains of fish, meat, or poultry that may be at hand, being careful first to divide these into small pieces. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, add a spoonful of Parmesan or other cheese, and serve very hot. Rice, American mode of Cooking. —Take a nice clean stowpan, with a closely- fitting lid. Have ready a clean piece of white cloth, large enough to cover over the toy of the stewpan, and hang down inside neai'ly to, but not in contact with, the bottom, and thus form a sort of sack, into wliich put the rice. Pour over it two cupfuls of water, and then put on the lid of the stewpan so as to hold up the cloth inside and fit tight all round. Put the stewpan on the fire, and the steam generated by the water will cook the rice to perfection. Add more water, but only just enough to keep up the steam. Rice and Almond Mould.—Wash six ounces of best Carolina rice in one or two waters. Drain it and put it into a delicately clean saucepan with a quart of mDk, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, two ounces of sweet almonds, and four bitter ones, which have been blanched and pounded to a smooth paste. Simmer the rice gently until it is quite tender. Beat it for two or three minutes with a wooden spoon, and press it into a damp mould. Let it stand in a cold place for four or five hours. Turn it out carefully, ornament it with bright- coloured jam or jelly of any kind, pour a quarter of a pint of cream or good custard over it, and it is ready for serving. Time to simmer the rice, a little more than an hour. Probable cost, 9d., exclusive of the cream and jam. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice and Apple Cake.—Take half a pound of rice, boil it in milk till tender and in a thick mass, adding sugar, grated lemon-peel, and a cupful of peadi-water, or flavour with two spoonfuls of orange-flower water and one ounce of pounded bitter almonds. Stir the mixture well, that it may not burn. Peel twelve large apples, slice them thin, and stew them in a glassful of wine and a little water, adding some sugar and grated lemon-peel. Let them stew till they become a fine marmalade. When the apples and rice are both cold, take a cake-form, cover it thin with rice, spread the apples over it, spread rice again about the thick- ness of the back of a knife, then apples, and so on, the last layer being rice. Set the cake in the oven for a quarter of an hour, turn it out when cold, and send to table with punch or custard sauce poured over it. Rice and Apple Pudding.—Throw half a pound of nee into boiling water, let it boil for ten minutes, drain, and dry it. Spread half of it on a pudding-cloth, and lay upon it six or eight apples pared, cored, and sliced, the thin rind of half a lemon, and two table-spoon- fuls of sugar. Spread the remainder of the rice over the fruit, draw the cloth loosely over it, and tie it securely. Be careful to allow plenty of room for the rice to swell. Plunge the pud- ding into boiling water, and keep it boiling until done enough. It will be well to put a plate under it to keep it from sticking. Tirm it out carefully, and send to table with a small quantity of sweet sauce poured round the pud- ding, and more in a tureen. Time to boil, an hour and three-quarters to two hours. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Rice and Apples.—Simmer six ounces of rice in a quart of milk till it is tender and has absorbed the liquor. Sweeten it, and flavour