WHI ( 1H8 ) WHI quarters of a pint of boiling water, and stir it until dissolved. Lot it gut cold; tlicn add as much white wine as will make up the quan- tity to one quai-t. IShorry or marsala wine may be used, or a mixture of sherry and good raisin wine. _ Put it cold into a delicately clean sauce- pani with the thin rind and strained juice of two fresh lemons, a quarter of a pound of roughly- powdered sugtir, and the woll-wlusked wliites and crushed shells of two eggs. Beat the mix- ture briskly for a minute or two, put it on the fire, and whisk it vigorously until it rises high in the pan. Tut the lid on, draw the pan back, in order that it may form a crust. Lift it from the fire, and let it stand to settle for ten minutes. Wring a jelly-bag out of boiling- water, pour the contents of the saucepan into it, and lot it run through till clear. Bo careful not to squeeze the jelly-bag, as this would make the jelly thick. Pour the jelly into a quart mould or into two pint moulds which have been soaked in cold water, and keep it in a cool place till wanted; turn it out upon a glass dish and serve. If it is to bo put into glasses, pour it into a shallow dish, let it remain until stiff, and before serving take it up in a dessert-spoon and put it into the glasses. Time to boil the jelly, a quarter of an hour. Proba- ble cost, Is., exclusive of the wine. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. White Wine Negus.—Extract the juice from the peel of a lemon by rubbing loaf sugar upon it, or cut the peel of a lemon very thin and pound it in a mortar; cut two lemons into thin slices, add four glassfuls of calf's-foot jelly in a liquid state, and small quantities of cinnamon, mace, cloves, and all- spice. Put the whole into a jug, pour one quart of boiling water upon it, cover the jug closely, let it stand a quarter of an hour, and then add a bottle of boiling white wine; grate half a nutmeg into it, stir it well together, and sweeten to taste. White Wine Sauce for Sole.—First boil a large sole in the white wine. To do this, cleanse and trim the sole, and put it into a shallow fish kettle just large enough to hold it. Skin a small onion, and cut it into dice; sprinkle it over the fish, and add a little salt, a small bunch of sweet herbs, six peppercorns, and one clove. Pour over the sole as much French white wine as will cover it, and let it boil gently till done enough. Strain the liquor, put it into a small saucepan, place it by the side of the fire, and stir into it, gently and gradually, the yolk of an egg. As soon as it begins to thicken, take it from the fire and pour it over the fish. Time to boil the sole, according to size. Whiting.—The whiting, when fresh, is an excellent and delicate fish, light, tender, and easy of digestion. It may be caught on different parts of the coast all the year round, but is to be had in perfection during the winter months. It does not keep well. Whitings are occasionally caught which weigh several pounds, but as a general rule they do not weigh more than a pound and a half. The best whitings in point of flavour are those which are about nine inches long. It is contrary to law to take the fish when it is less tlian six inches long, Whit- ings are occasionuUy boiled, but tln-y arc best when fried or broiled. It is usual before fryintr the fish to skin it, and fasten the tails thioutrh the eye-liolos. Whiting (au Gratin).—Butter a baking, dish, and spruiklo over it some grated bread- crumbs and a little pepper and salt. Mointen these with a gkss of white wine, and add a tiible-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a tea- spoonful of anchovy. Pkce the whiting in the dish, and strew all about it two tea-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mushrooms, and one of parsley and shallot. Cover the surface of the fish with brown bread-crumba, and put it in the oven till it is done enough. Take it up carefully with a fish slice, put it on a dish, and serve \vith the sauce poured over it. If not sufficiently browned, a salamander or red-hot shovel may be held over it for a minute or two. Sometimes the fish is filleted and prepared in this way. Time to bake the fish, half an hour. Probable cost of whitings, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient, one for each person. WHrnSG. Whiting (au Gratin).—Another way.— Take two full-sized whitirigs, empty, scrape, cleanse, and wipe them, then make deep inci- sions on each side with a sharp knife to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Butter a shallow dish thickly; sprinkle upon it a little pepper and salt and two table-spoonfuls of fine bread- raspings. Put in the whitings, sprinkle these with pepper and salt, pour gently over them one to two glassfuls of French light wine, and lay upon the fish two table-spoonfuls of finely-minced mushrooms mixed ^^•ith a table- spoonful of parsley. Melt an ounce of butterj pour it over the fish, sprinkle two table-spoon- fuls of bread-raspings on the top, and bake the whitings in the oven. Send a cut lemon only to table with the fish. If it is preferred that the wine should not be used, three or four table- spoonfuls of pale veal gravy may be substituted for it. Time to bake the whitings, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost. 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Whiting (au Gratin).—Another way.— After having scaled, emptied, and washed the