( 766 ) BIO BIN Rice, Wholesomeness of.—" Rico," says Ur. Gmlmm, *' is a nutritious and wholo- bonio vog'utablo. It is ousy of dif>(!stioii wluin takon in conjunction with some condiment, m (cinnamon, nutmug, allspice, and the liko; thcso additions make it moro jialatablo as well as more wholosomo, and obviate its tendency to condne tho bowels. It is almost tlie only food of tho inhabitants of India—a sutticiimt proof of its mild, nutritive, and wholesome pi'opor- ties. Ale should never bo drunk after rice and milk, as it is almost certain of producing colic or some other disorder of the bowels." Kice ^vas held in great esteem by the ancients, they considered it a food very beneficial to the chest; therefore it was recommended in cases of con- sumption and to persons subject to spitting of blood. Rice contains about eighty-five parts of starch in the hundred, and having no stimu- lating matter in it to quicken digestion, remains longer in the stomachs of some persons than other farinaceous food. In India and other Eastei-n countries, where it constitutes the principal food of the inhabitants, it is usually taken with curry-powder, peppers, and other stimulating condiments, .in order to assist di- gestion. Mixed with other food it is whole- some, and well adapted for delicate stomachs. Rice-water is an excellent demulcent drink when there is irritation of the bowels, dy- senterj^ or diarrhoea. Ground rice and milk, flavoured with orange-peel and sweetened, is a valuable article of diet during convalescence. Rice with Pears.—Wash six ounces of rice, and put it into a saucepan with a quart of milk, the thin rind of a lemon, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, and a piece of butter the size of a small nut. Stir the rice till it boils, then draw it from the fire, and let it simmer gently until it is quite tender and has absorbed the milk. Take it from the fii-e, and beat it well for three or four minutes, press it into a damp mould, and set it in a cool place to stiifen. Peel and halve a dozen or more ripe pears. Put these into a saucepan with the strained juice of two lemons, a small cupful of water, and half a pound of sugar. Let them simmer till they are tender without being broken. Lift them out gently, and lay them (jn a dish to cool. Boil the syrup until it is tliick, and, if liked, dissolve in it one or two spoonfuls of apricot marmalade. When the rice is to be served, turn it out of the mould, lay the baked pears round it, pour the syrup over, and garnish the rice prettily with angelica, or with strips of lemon-rind laid over it, or with slices of lemon laid upon it. Many cooks stir into the rice after it has boiled iom woll- beaten eggs and a slice of butter, and beat it over the fire till it is thick, but it will be excellent without these if only the rice is Bimmered till it is dry, and afterwards beaten till it is smooth. Time, two .hours. Probable cost, la. 6d. exclusive of the apricot m.-minlndo. Sufficient for five or six persons. Richmond Eel Pie.-Skin, draw, and cut into two-inch lengths two good-sized oola. wash them in salt and water, and diy thoin in a cloth. Put them into a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, two tablo-sixjonfuls of chojjped mushrooms, one table-sjwonful of chopped parsley, one onion, or a small clove of shallot finely slu-ed, a little pepper and salt, a bay-leaf, an iiuli of lomon-rind, a glass of sherry, and as much stock made from bones as will barely cover the eels. Bring the sauce slowly to the boil, skim it, and as it rises in the pan lift out the pieces of eel, and lay them in a pie-dish. Strain the sauce, thicken it witli two ounces of flour kneaded with two ounces of butter, add the juice of a Jemon, and pour it over the eels in the dish. Place on the top the hard-boiled yolks of three or four eggs. Line the edges of the dish with pastry, cover with the same, brush over with egg, ornament the pie, and bake in a well-heated oven. It may be served either hot or cold. Time to bake, about one hour. Probable cost, 4s. to 6s. SuflScient for five or six persons. Richmond Puddings. — Bake three large apples. Scrape out every particle of pulp free from slrin and core, and mix with it two ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of finely- grated bread-cimnbs, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg or rasped lemon- rind, add half a pint of cream or milk, the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs. Mix tho- roughly. Butter some cups, half fill them with the mixture, sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over the top, and bake in a well-heated oven. WTien done enough, turn the puddings out carefuUy upon a hot dish, sift powdered sugar over them, and send a light custard to table with them. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, if made with milk. Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Ring Dish for Australian Meat {see illustration accompanying the article on Austra- lian Meat). Rings, Candied, for Garnishing (w* Orange and Lemon Candied Rings for Garni sli- ing). Rings of Pastry, Ornamental.—Roll out some puff paste to the thickness of a quar- ter of an inch. Stamp it out in rounds an inch and a half in diameter, and cut out the centre of these with a smaller cutter, half an inch in diameter. Brush the rings over with beaten egg, shake finclv-powdered sugar over them, and bake them "on a slightly-buttered baking- sheet in a gentle oven till they are lightly browned. Cover with sugar icing, put them in a cool oven or in a screen to dry, and or- nament with dots or folds of bright-coloured jolly. Or blanch some almonds, and chop them small. Put them in a bowl, and beat them up with a little white of egg and powdered sugar; brush the rings with egg, and strew the chopped almonds over them. Bake m a gentle oven, and a minute or two before thev are taken out put a preserved cherry, well drainod from the svrup, in the centre of the ring. A^^len ligli'tly coloured take out tlie rings, and put them" on a wire sieve to cooL Time to bako. about a quaiier of an hour.