VEA VEA ( 1027 ) from the butcher. The skirt also should be taken at once from the breast, the inside scraped and wiped, and dredged with flour. If there is any danger of the veal becoming tainted, wash "it, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Tltrngo it into cold water till cool, wipe it dry, and put it into the coolest place that can be found. Although veal can be ob- tained all the yccir roimd, it is best from May to September. No meat is more generally use- ful for making soups and gravies than veal. The flesh is rather indigestible. The head, CALF, JOINTING OF. kidneys, and sweetbreads, are considered great delicacies. The feet contain a good deal of nourishment. Veal is cut up as follows :— 1. The Loin. 2. The Chump, which consists of the rump and the hock bone. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind-knuckle. 5. Fore-knuckle. 6. Neck. 7 The Breast. 8. The Shoulder. To these joints must be added the head, which is highly esteemed, and the pluck, which includes the liver, lights, heart, sweetbreads, of which one is called the throat sweetbread, and is the largest of the two; the other the wind-pipe sweetbread. The pluck also includes the nut, moit, skirt, and throat. The udder or firm white fat of the fillet is used by French cooks for forcemeats. Veal should "be thoroughly done. When undcr-drossed it is unwholesome, and should be avoided. Veal (i la Bourgeoise).—Take about three pounds of the fillet, loin, or neck of veal. Cut it into neat pieces, and fry these in a little butter till they are brightly browned on both sides. Add two slices of lean bacon, three caiTota, three onions (each with a clove stuck in it), a large bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour over all as much boiling stock or water as will barely cover the ingredients, and simmer all together very gently until the meat is done enough. Take it out, skim the sauce, strain it, and boil quickly to reduce it; then add a spoonful of Bugar browning to colovu- it, and if liked a little ! tomato sauce and ketchup to impart flavour. Put the meat on a dish, trim the carrots to a neat shape and place them round it, pour a part of the gravy over the veal, and serve the rest in a tureen. A pint of fresh green peas and two pounds or more of new potatoes should be cooked separately, and served -vith. the veal. If liked, the veal, instead of being cut up into pieces, may be evenly larded in the grain of the meat with strips of fat bacon, and dressed whole. If a calf's foot is boiled wdth the veal it will much improve the gra.Yj. Time tr simmer the veal, two hours if it is cut up, three hours if in one piece. Probable cost, 48. to 5s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Cold (a la Bourgeoise).—Prepare the veal the day before it is wanted, according to the directions in the preceding recipe. Turn it out into a bowl, pour the gravy over, and let it get cold. VVhen wanted, turn the whole upon a dish, and serve with the gravy set to jelly round it. Veal (a la Chartreuse). — Line a plain roimd or oval mould with thin slices of fat bacon. Spread a layer of veal forcemeat upon this, and fill the mould with a rich fricassee of veal. Lay dressed turnips and carrots, cut into appropriate shapes, round the edge of the mould, cover with pastry, and steam it over boiling water. Turn it out upon a dish, and serve very hot. Time to steam the chartreuse, about an hour. Veal and Fowl, Blanching of.—Veal of every part is to be made firm by means of boiling-hot water, and we also lay the flesh of any kind of fowl required to be rendered firm in hot water, allowing it to remain undistui-bod at a short distance from the fire, plunging it afterwards into cold water. Especially veal intended for cooking, or previously cut up into proper pieces for a fricassee, is kept for a quarter of an hour in boiling water at a distance fi'om the fire, and then removed and washed in cold water. A leg or breast of veal must be set on the fire with cold water to draw it a little; it must not, however, boil, as that would ex- tract too much of its goodness. Eemove it from the fire, cover it over, and let it stand a quarter of an hour ; after which it will be found to have become perfectly drawn and whitened. Take it out, lay it in cold water, wash it, and dry it with a clean cloth. Veal and Ham Patties.—Line patty- pans with puif paste in the usual way, bake them, and fiU them with a mixture prepared as follows:—Mince finely six oiinces of dressed lean veal and three ounces of dressed ham. Put a quarter of a pint of cream and a quarter of a pint of white stock into a saucepan; thicken this sauce with white roux or with a smaU piece of butter rolled in flour, and simmer till it is smooth and coats the spoon. Add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a flavouring of grated nutmeg and lemon-rind, together with a little lemon-juice. Put in the minced meat, and simmer gently, stirring all the time, till it is quite hot—but it must not l)oil, or it will be hard. Time, ten or fifteen minutes to heat the mince.