( 10G7 ) TUB, TUR is warm. Lay the pieces neatly on the dishes, and allot to each dish an equal share of white and brown meat, small pieces of stuffing, and of liver. Cut the heart, neck, and gizzard into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with any trimmings that there may be, the gravy that dropped from the bird when it was roasted, and a calf's foot or a little piece of the knuckle of veal, so as to form a stock that wiU jelly when cold. Let all simmer gently to- gether for three or four hours; strain the stock, skim the fat from the top, put it into a clean saucepan, and mix smoothly with it as much flour as will form a paste. Stir this quickly over the fire for two or three minutes tiU it is lightly browned; add the strained stock gradually, some pepper and salt, and also a little claret, ketchup, or any other flavouring. Pour some of this sauce over the pieces of turkey in each dish, so that they shaU be lightly covered with it. Let them cool and stiffen before removing them. Garnish with fresh parsley before serving. The thighs of the turkey are sometimes reserved for broiling. Time* two hours to stew a good-sized turkey. Probable cost, uncertain. Turkey, Forcemeat for.—Shred very finely four ounces of beef suet or beef marrow; add four ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a quarter of an ounce of mixed savoury herbs, of which two-thirds should be parsley and the remainder sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, a quarter of an ounce of fresh lemon-rind finely grated, and a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and cayenne. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind them together with the yolks and white of two eggs. A large turkey will require double the quantity of forcemeat which the above ingredients will make, and many cooks use equal weights of sausage-meat and force- meat well mixed together. Or shred finely four ounces of beef suet, and add four ounces of grated bread-crumbs, four ounces of lean undressed veal, a quarter of an ounce of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, a shallot finely minced, and a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Pound the ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolk of an egg. Or mix the above ingredients, and add a dozen bearded oysters finely minced, and a fiUeted anchovy, or two ounces of dressed lean ham or tongue finely grated. Tinned oysters may be used instead of fresh ones. Oyster sauce should be used with this forcemeat, which is suitable for a boiled turkey. Time, twenty minutes to prepare. Turkey, Forcemeat of Chestnuts for.—Mince finely a pound of fat, unsmoked bacon and three-quarters of a pound of lean, undressed veal. Season the mince with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and pound it in a mortar tiU smooth. lloast and peel three dozen chestnuts, and put them into the body of the bird with the forcemeat. Or roast a pint of chestnuts gently, and peel them; weigh them, and simmer half a pound of them for twenty minutes in as much veal gr"vy as will tx)ver them. Drain them, and let them cool, thee pound them in a mortar with four ounces of fresh butter, three ounces of grated bread- crumbs, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, a smaller one of powdered mace, and a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolks of three eggs. Turkey, Galantine of. —This dish, though rather troublesome to prepare, is an excellent one for a supper or collation. Pluck, draw, and singe a plump hen turkey ; cut it in two down the breast, cut ofiE the wings and neck, and bone it carefuUy without injuring the skin, first removing the back-bone. Re- move some of the flesh from the inside of the turkey and from the legs, especially all the . sinews. Lay the turkey fiat on the table, skin downwards, and truss the legs inside. Spread on it a layer of veal forcemeat an inch deep, then put a layer of the meat cut from the turkey, and on this some strips of cooked lean ham and fat bacon, lean veal, boiled tongue, with three or four sliced truffles, if obtainable. The meat and the truffles must be laid on in such a way that the colours will contrast. Put another layer of forcemeat on the top, and season the whole with pepper and salt. Turn the skin over, roll the turkey in the form of a large sausage, and sew it up securely that the contents may not escape. Lay thin slices of fat bacon round it, and tie it in a cloth. Put it into a stewpan, cover with nicely-seasoned stock, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Two or three onions stuck with cloves, a bay- leaf, three sliced carrots, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme may be stewed in the stock with the turkey. Put the bones of the turkey into a separate stewpan with a few spoonfuls of stock, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Strain the liquor, stir a wine-glassful of white wine into it, and pour this broth into the pan containing the turkey. When the galantine is sufficiently dressed, lift it from the fire, and let it remain in the liquor for an hour. Tie it in a fresh cloth, and lay it on a dish; put a weight upon it so that it may be pressed and stiQ retain its shape, and let it remain until cold. Remove the cloth, clear it from fat, and brush two coats of glaze over it. Ornament with aspic jelly, beetroot, and eggs cut into various shapes, or with truffles, &c., stuck into it with silver skewers. Time, four hours to simmer the galantine. Sufficient for a large supper-dish. Turkey Giblets, Fricasseed.—Take one set of turkey giblets; these comprehend the wings, the feet, the gizzard, the liver, the head, and the neck. Clean them all carefully, skin and trim the feet, skin the gizzard and divide it into quarters, cut the neck into four pieces, and the wings and legs each into two pieces; skin, split, and clean the head, and slice the liver. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and put in the giblets, with the exception of the liver, together with a small bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, another of basil, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a Httle pepper and salt. Fry these ingredients gently till they are lightly browned. Pour over them a pint of stock, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Lift them out, skim and strain the gravy, and tliicken it with a