SAtJ ( 829 ) 8AU rcx)t. Beat four ounces of butter to cream, add the same weight of powdered sugar, the flour and arrowroot, one ounce of candied peel finely shred, and two well-whisked eggs. Beat the mixture till it is smooth and Hght, put it into a shallow dish lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. If the cake is kept in an air-tight tin, it will keep good for some time. Time to bake, an hour or more. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. Saucer Pudding (suitable for a child or invalid).—Mix a tea-spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and stir into this as much boiling milk as wiU make up the quantity to a tea-cupful. Let the liquor cool, then add a weU-beaten egg and a little sugar and flavouring. Pour the preparation into a large buttered saucer, and bake in. a weU-heated oven. When done enough, turn the pudding upon a plate, and serve with jam, or with a little sherry if preferred. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Suf- ficient for one person. Sauces.—The skill and knowledge of a cook is shown in nothing more assuredly than in the way in which she manufactures and chooses sauces. M. Soyer used to say that sauces are to cookery what grammar is to language and the gamut is to music; and another great authority says that "a good sauce ought to call into activity each ramifi- cation of the palatic organs." However this may be, sauce ought certainly to serve either as a relish or a finish to the meat which it ac- companies : it ought, too, to be carefully made, and attractively sent to table. It will be found that in this book the names of the sauces appro- priate to be served with each dish are usually mentioned in the instructions for making it. With regard to sauces in general it should be remembered that hot sauces should be served very hot; that when sauces need to be kept hot they should not be kept boiling, but should be put into a bain-marie, or, failing this, the sauce- pan should be placed in a vessel containing boiling water; that eggs and acids should not be added to sauce until it has cooled for two minutes, and, after they have been added, the sauce should be stirred without ceasing, and should not be allowed to boil; that cream should be boiled before it is mixed with boiling sauce, and that the sauce should be stirred well after it is put in. An enamelled saucepan is the best in which to make sauce. Sauces and G-ravies.—In addition to those given above recipes for the following will be found under their respective headings :— Abmiral's Allemand Almond Almond for Puddings Anchovy Anchovy and Caper Anchovy Butter Anchovy for Beef Anchovy for Salmon Apple, Baked Ai'PLF, for Roast Gooix Arrowroot Arrowroot, Clear Arrowroot to Thicken Sauces Artichoke Artichokes, Jerusa- lem, IN White Sauce Asparagus Aurora Bacon BfecHAMEL, or French White Beef, Boiled, Saucb FOR, Italian Beef Sauce, Piciuant Beef, Stewed, and Celery Sauce Beef, Stewed, and Oyster Sauce Beef with Sauce espagnole Beef, with Wine Sauce Tremblant Blanche Blonde Boar's Head Bordelaise Brawn Bread Bread for Par- tridges Bretonne, for Cold OR Hot Beef Brown Brown Roux or Thickening Butter Butter, Burnt Caper, for Boiled Mutton Caper, for Fish Caper, Substitute for Carp, Sauce for Carrier Carrot Cauliflower Celery Celery, a auiCK way Celery, for Turkeys, Fowls, &c. Celery, with White Sauce Cherokee or Store Cherry Cherry, for Sweet Puddings Chestnut, Brown Chestnut, White Chetney Chicken, WITH Sauce Chicken, Broiled, Mushroom Mushroom Sauce for Chicken, Sauce for Chicken, Sauce for Roast Chicken, White Sauce for Boiled Christopher North's, for Meat and Game Cinnamon Claret Cockle Cocoa-nut Codlings, Sauce for Crab Crab Butter Cream Cress, for Fish and Poultry Cucumber Culms CURA90A Currant, fob. Suck« iNO Pig Currant, for Venison Curry Custard, for Sweet Puddings CUTCHARBE, TO SeRVE WITH KeBOBBED Meat Cutlets, Sauce for Dory, or Caper Duck, Gravy for Dutch Dutch, for Fish Dutch, Green Eels, Sauce for Egg Egg, for Calf's Head Eggs and Sauce Eggs and Sauce Ro- bert Eggs and White Sauce Epicurean escaveeke Fast Day Fenni:l, for Mack- erel Fish Fish, Pink Sauce for Fish, Sauce fob Boiled Fish, without Butter FoAVL, Apicius Sauce FOR Fowl, Broiled, with Mushroom Sauce Fowl, Sauce for Fowl, White Oyster, FOR Fru'it, for Puddings Frukt, Saveet GAMJi, Sauce for Game, Piquant Garlic Garnish, Celery Sauce for General's Genevebe Genoa Genoese German, for Brawn, &c. German Pudding Ginger Gobble, for Fish Goose, Cold, for Gooseberry', for Mackerel Gravy Gravy, Beef, Clear Gravy, Beef, for Poultry and Game Gravy, Beef, Plain Gravy, Bon Vivant's Sauce for Graty, Brown Gravy, Colouring and Flavourlng