PIC PIC ( 646 ) pickling—cauliflowers, whito cabbages, Froncli bciins, eiipsicums, gherkins, largo und small onions, cucumbors, radish pods, groon tomatoes, and nasturtiums. Take equal quantities of each kind. Prepare them by slicing the large sorts, shredding the cabbage, and pulling the cauliflower into small pieces. Put tliem into a largo pan with boiling brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg. Let them simmer for one minute, then drain the liquid from them, spread them out on large dishes, and place them in tho sun imtil they are perfectly di'y. Prepare as much pickle as will entirely cover tho vegetables, in the following proportions: — Boil two quarts of good vinegar with two ounces of bruised ginger, one ounce of whole whito pepper, one ounce of allspice, two ounces of turmeric or curry-powder, and two ounces of shallots. Boil these for five minutes, then mix two ounces of best Durham mustard smoothly with a little boiling vinegar, and stii" it into the rest of the vinegar, which must not boil after the mustard is added. Let the first heat go off, then pour the vinegar over the vegetables, and when they are quite cold store them in jars, and intermix the spices amongst them. Be careful that the vegetables are covered with the vinegar, and cover the jar with bladder to exclude the air. This pickle must be examined at intervals, and as the vegetables absorb the vinegar, fresh cold vinegar must be added and ■well stirred in. Additions of various vegetables may be made as they come into season; but it should be remembered that they must be scalded in brine and diied, then scalded in hot vinegar, and allowed to gxow cold, before they are put to the rest of the pickle, or they will not keep. Pickled Meats and Fish.—Recipes for the following pickled meats and fish will be found under their respective headings:— Bacon Cheeks Beef, Pickle for Beef, Round of Bullocks' Tongues Cockles Eggs Haddock Ham Ham, Pickle foii Hamburgh Herrings Herrings (French Method) Irish Salmon Mackerel Mussels Ox Tongue Oysteus Pork Salmon Pickle.—When meat is to be salted, it should either be put into tho pickle while it is warm after killing, or be allowed to hang a day or two in summer, and five or six days in winter, to become tender. Before it is put into the brine the kernels and pipes should be removed, and the meat wiped well with a dry cloth. It is an excellent plan to rub a little dried and warmed salt into tlic meat, and leave it until the next day, then drain it well from the filime and blood which will have flowed from it, and put it into tho brine, which ought to cover it entirely. Tho meat should be turned and rubbed every day. IMcklo for meat may be used again and again if it is boiled and skimmed occasionally, a little fresh salt being added to it. The tub which contains it should be kept covered, either, with a lid or a thick cloth, and a cool place should ho chosen for it to stand in Meat is more tender when cured with bay salt than with conamon stilt: the former is the more expensive of tho two. Sugar makes the meat mellow; saltpetre colours it, but tends to make it hard, diy, and indigestible. Two or three recipes for pickle are liere given, all of wliich will be found excellent. They are suit- able for beef, hams, and tongues. Pickle for Beef, Pork, and Tongues. —Put two gallons of cold water into a luigc stewpan with three pounds of hay salt, hjilf a pound of good moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Bring it to a boil, skim carefullv, and let it boil for twenty minutes. Turn it into a deep pan, and when it is quite cold it is- ready for the meat. Meat muy be kept in this pickle for three weeks in mild weather, though it may be used in five or six days. The liquid in which it is boiled will not be found too salt to use for soup. The pickle may be used re- peatedly. Add one pound of common salt, or half a pound of bay salt, and a pint of water every time the pickle is boiled. Pickle for Tongues (another way).—Rub a handful of salt and another of moist sugar over the tongues, and lay them,on a dish in a cool place. Turn and rub them everj- day for four days. On the fourth day, put a quart of water and a quart of porter into a saucepan with four ounces of saltpetre, two pounds of bay salt, and two pounds of common salt. Bring the liquid to a boil, and skim thoroughly. Put tho tongues in a deep pan, and pour the pickle over them while it is hot, and see that they are perfectly covered with it. At the end of eight days they will be fit for use. The pickle should remain on the fire mitil it boils. Pickle for Meat.—Put two gallons of spring water into a large pan with five poundi> of common salt, two pounds of imadulterated moist sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil for twenty minutes, and skim carefully. A large roimd of beef would require to lie in thi& pickle for a fortnight before it is dressed. The meat will not be so mellow as if bay salt wore used. The liquid iu wliich the meat is boiled will be too salt for soup. If preferred, three pounds of bay salt may be substituted for com- mon salt. Add one poimd of common salt, or half a pound of bay salt, and a pint of water everj^ time the pickle is boiled. Pickle that will keep Two Years or more.—But three gallons of cold s])ring water into a large pan or copper, and with it two pounds of bay salt, six pounds of common salt, two pounds of moist sugar, and throe ounces of saltpetre. Let the pickle boil for half an liour, and skim carefully, tlien pour it into a deep earthen pan Avith "a closely-fitting lid. "\ATien cold, it is ready for the meat. A small ham may lie in this pickle two weeks, a large one throo weeks, a tongue ten or twelve days, and beef, according to its size and the degree of salt- ness dasired. When tho pickle has boon need two or throe times boil it up and skim care- fully : this o]ieration sliould bo occasionally repeated. The. pickle will require to be boiled