( 1071 ) VEG ■water with a small bundle of mint, sweet herbs, mace, cloA-es, • and white pepper. Boil till the peas are quite soft, then strain and pulp the peas through a coarse sieve. Put the soup into a stewpiin with four heads of celery, the pulped peas, a small handful of spinach, one lettuce, two leeks cut small, a quart of young peas, and a little salt. Stew gently until only two quarts of the liquid remain, and the celery has become quite tendefr. Add a good limip of butter rolled in flour about a quarter of an hour before the stewpan is removed from the fire. Vegetable Soup (another way).—Put one onion cut in pieces into a saucepan with three ounces of butter, and brown it; then add finely-shredded turnips, parsnips, leeks, carrots (also a white carrot, if procurable), green celery, a little sorrel, one small potato, and a few French beans and green peas, all of which are to be tossed and browned in the butter, with sufficient quantities of salt and pepper. Pour in a little water or stock, crush the vegetables slightly, then fill up with more water, and let the soup simmer for two hours. A little rice or pearl barley may with advantage be added to the vegetables. Care must be taken not to get the soup of too thick a consistency. Vegetable Soup, Mock.—Soak a pint of split peas in water for some hours. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan with three table-spoonfuls of rice, half a pound of sliced potatoes, two onions, and th-ce quarts of stock made from bones. Boil all gently together tiU the peas are soft. Eub the peas, &c., through a sieve, add the pulp to the stock, and boil the soup again with a fine head of celery cut into inch pieces. Season the soup with pepper and salt, and boil it again till the celery is tender. Serve very hot. A table-spoonful of ketchup may be added if liked. Time, about four hours. Vegetable Soup (Puree).— Cut four ounces of lean ham into dice, and put it into the bottom of a stewpan. Lay upon it a turnip, a large carrot, a stick of celery, a leek or an onion, half a pint of haricot beans, and a pint of split peas. Place on the top of the vege- tables a slice of fresh butter: about thxee ounces will be a sufficient quantity. Let the butter melt ; then stir the vegetables over the fire for ten minutes. Pour upon them a pint of stock made from bones, and add four ounces of Carolina rice. Let the vegetables stew till tender. Eub them through a sieve, and moisten occasionally to soften them. Mix with the pulp an additional quart of stock. Season the puree with salt and cayenne; boil it again for a short time, skim it, and serve with fried sippets. Time, about two hours. Sufficient for five or six persons. (For another vegetable soup, see Vegetable Consomme, or Gravy Soup.) Vegetable Sbup, Summer.—Take a good quantity of mixed summer vegetables, such as green peas, lettuces, young onions, turnips and carrots, sorrel and leeks, to which may be added a small bunch of chervil and parsley, a cucumber, &c. Chop the roots into small pieces, and slice the bulbs thinly. Supi. posing there to be a pint of mixed vegetables, put them into a stewpan with a slice of fresh butter, and turn them about with a wooden spoon till they begin to soften, being careful that they are not allowed either to brown or to bum. Pour upon them a quart of veal stock, and season with salt and cayenne and a very small quan- tity of grated nutmeg. Skim the soup, and simmer gently till the vegetables are all per- fectly tender. Stir into it haK a pint of boiling cream, and serve with the vegetables in the tureen. If cream cannot be had, a little milk and the yolk of an egg may be used instead. Boil half a pint of milk, and pour it through a strainer into the soup. When the soup is to be served make the tureen quite hot, and throw into it the yolk of an egg. Beat this briskly with a table-spoonful of the soup out of the saucepan; add to it, gradiaally, six additional spoonfuls. Pour in the remainder of the soup, which should not be quite at the point of boiling, though thoroughly hot. Serve immediately. Time, one hour and a half. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vegetable Soup, Summer (another way).—Take a pint of green peas which have grown too old to be boiled in the ordinary way. Put them into a stewpan with a handful of the shells, a large onion sliced, a sprig of mint, and a quart of stock or water. Let them boil till tender, and rub them through a sieve. Dissolve an ounce of butter in another stewpan; throw into this two sliced onions, a large cucumber cut into dice, two lettuces cut small, and half a pint of freshly-shelled young peas. Pour upon the vegetables as much stock as will cover them, and let them boil till tender. Stir in the pulped liquor, season the soup with pepper and salt, boil all together, and serve. If necessary, a table-spoonful of spinach or parsley-juice may be added to improve the colour of the soup. Vegetable Soup, Vegetable Strips for.—Cut the carrots into pieces an inch long, and pare these round and round in thin ribands tiU the yellow part is reached. Cut these ribands into small strips, and the carrots will be ready for the soup. Turnips also may be pared into ribands and cut into strips, and celery may be cut into thin narrow straws. The vegetables should be boiled separately in stock or water until almost tender, and then drained and thrown into the soup. If boiled entirely in tho soup, they will, in aU probability, make it look cloudy. Vegetable Soup, Winter.—Cut an onion into thm slices, and frj^ it in two ounces of butter until it is lightly browned. Put with it half a pound of mixed vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, and celery cut up small, and stir aU briskly over the fire with a wooden spoon for ten minutes. Add a quarter of a pound of soaked split peas, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a clove, a Httle salt and cayenne, and two quarts of stock. -Simmer all gently together for two hours. Strain the soup, and serve with toasted sippets. Tlirce or four ripe tomatoes peeled and sliced may, if liked, be stewed with the soup. When a plain family soup 18 required, fry the vegetables, put the