(614 ) POR FOB not beon sufficiently cooked, and should avoid all roast pork which presents traces of blood." Pork, Wholesomeness of.—Pork is a very savoury food, and uncommonly nourish- ing: it is thus suited to persons who lead an active or laborious life. It is not, however, easily dij^estod. The too frequent and long- continued use of this moat is held by medical men to favour obesity, produce foulness of the stomach and bowels, and occasion dis- orders of the skin. The flesh of the sucking- pig is considered a gi-eat dolicjicy, and is noui-ishing, but it does not appear to bo more wholesome than that of the grown animal. It is not readily dissolved in the stomach. Bacon is a coarse, heavy, and very indigestible food, only suited to be used as diet by the robust and by labouring people. The flesh of the wild hog is dense, but suf- ficiently tender, very nourishing, and more savoury, as well as more easily digested, than that of the domestic hog. It is in season in October. The finest part is the head, and the flesh of the young wild hog is considered a great delicacy. Pork, fat and lean together, has been shown to require about five hours for digestion. There is no doubt that much of the indigestibility of pork arises, not only from the fat, ostensibly existing as such, but from the large amount of fatty matter mixed with the muscular fibre. Porpoise.—The porpoise, antiquarians teU us, was once a favourite at the tables of the great; and King Henry VIII. gave occasion for some witticisms by his fondness for this archetype of obesity; if it was too large for a horse-load, an extra allowance was made to the purveyor. The sauce used was composed of vinegar, bread- crumb, and sugar. In some countries it is still eaten. The flesh of the young animal has been compared to veal, and is said to be well tasted. In Norway, a delicate caviare has been made from its eggs. Occasionally a porpoise is brought to Billingsgate Market; but instead of being food for kings, not even the beggar will touch it: it is bought only for show by the fishmongers. Porridge, Milk {see Milk Porridge). Porridge, Milk, French. —Soak two ■)unce3 of oatmeal in a half a pint of water. When the oatmeal has settled at the bottom and left the water clear, strain oil, and add the same quantity of fresh, which should rest till the next day, and then be passed through a fine sieve into a saucepan. When boiling, pour in the milk, and serve. This makes a wholesome breakfast for a delicate stomach. Time, half an hour to boil. Probable cost 4d. per pound. Porridge, Oatmeal.—Oatmeal porridge is a leading article of food with the Scottish peasantry. It is generally accompanied with milk when milk is to bo had; when milk is very scarce butter is sometimes used, sometimes sugar, and sometimes treacle beer. " For most persons in a sound condition of health," says a north-country writer, "there is no more wholesome article of food than porridge and milk, none that contains a larger proportion both of flesh-forming and hoat-producing sub- stances ; whilst to almost all who have ever- been accustomed to its use, it is extremely palatable. Gcnerally speakiug, there is no better article of food for the nursery, none more likely to maintain a healthy condition of the stomach, or to give vigour to tlie frame;, although there are exceptional cases, botli amongst the young and amongst adults, in which the use of pomdge is unsuitable, pro- ducing painful distention of the stomach and indigestion. Whilst the caprices of children ought not to be heeded in such a matter, the actual condition of their constitutions ought to be carefully observed and regarded. Pon-idge is in general made by simply boiling oatmeal iu water, stirring all the time to prevent singeing,, and to secure the thorough mixture of the meal and water into a homogeneous mass without knots. The quality of porridge very much depends on the amount of boiling which it receives. It cannot be too thoroughly boiled. Imperfectly boiled oatmeal porridge is a very coarse article of food ; and unfortunately much of the porridge used by the poorer classes in Scotland and elsewhere is of this character and the porridge prepared for the nursery is often no better, through the carelessness of servants who wish to get through their work with as little trouble as possible. It is not nearly so digestible, and, therefore, not so nutritious, as porridge really well made. A common mistake in the making of porridge must also here be noticed as tending much to the deterioration of its quality—the adding of meal by degrees, whilst the boiling goes on, until the proper thickness is acquired, the result being that part of the meal is imperfectly boiled. The cook ought to know the proper proportions of meal and water—knowledge not very difficult to acquire—and mix them at once, so that all the meal may be equally weU boiled. But it is to be observed that the water must be boiling before the meal is put in, which is not to be introduced in a mass, but, as it were, strained through the fingers handful by handful as quickly as possible. " Whey is sometimes used instead of water for the making of oatmeal porridge, and affords an agreeable variety to those in the habit of using porridge every day. Milk porridge is another variety esteemed an especial luxury by the Scottish peasantry, and is certainly both an agreeable and a very nutritious article of diet. Whether fine oatmeal or coarse oatmeal should be used for the making of porridge is merely a matter of taste." Porridge, Oatmeal (another way).—Put a pint and a half of water or milk and water into a saucepan, and add a pinch of salt. "UTien the liquid fuEy boils, as it is rising in the pan, sprinkle gradually two ounces of oatmeal into it with the left hand, and at the same time stir briskly with a fork held in the right hand. Keep stirring until the lumps are beaten out. Boil Iho mixture tor a quarter of an hour, pour it on a plate, and eat it with milk and sugar or treacle. A larger or a smaller quantity of oiitm&il may bo used, according to taste. Porridge will be found to make a very nourishing and wholesome breakfast for children. The secret of making;