WIN ( 1H2 ) WIN other subatanceH, and particularly tho malic acid, exiat in too largo a pj'oportion in most of our fruits, which, in their natural state, are thus better adapted for making' cider than wino. To.get rid of tlio malic acid, and to prevent its deteriorating eli'ects, as well as tho deteriorating elfects of other foreign principles, is difficult, or perhaps impossible; and this will doubtless always render home-made wines inferior to those of the grape, though very near approaches may be made by judicious management. The practical mode of obviating those diffi- culties is to dilute tho juico of tho fruit to such a degree that a given quantity of it shall contain no more of the malic acid, for example, than a given quantity of the juice of tho grape; and, as before observed, to supply artiticially the two grand principles, sugar and super- tartrate of potash, which are wanting. Having thus prepared an artificial must as nearly re- sembling in its composition that of the grapes as possible, the application of the other prin- ciples wiU be obvious, as we have nothing to do but to manage, in general, all the subsequent processes precisely as if we were operating upon the must of the grape. In manufacturing wine from grapes different methods ai-e pursued according to the kinds of wine which it is intended to make. Now the same thing holds good in manufacturing home- made wines; it is absolutely necessary that the maker should determine beforehand upon the kind of wine which it is his object to produce, and to modify his processes accordingly. We may, with Dr. Macculloch, consider wines as of f om- general descriptions: sweet wines; sparkling or effervescing wines; dry and light wines, analogous to hock and Rhenish, in which the saccharine principle is entirely decomposed during fermentation; and lastly, dry and strong wines, as madeira and sherry. Those of the first and most simple class are the sweet wines, or those in which the fermen- tative process has been incomplete. It is %o this class that by far the greater number of our home-made wines bear the greatest resemblance; a resemblance, says Dr. Macculloch, so general, as to show that few makers of this article pos- aess sufficient knowledge of the art to enable them to steer clear of what may be firmly called a radical defect of domestic wines; for so large a quantity of sugar is often added in proportion to the juice of the fruits, that the quantity of natural leaven, or fermentative matter, in the compound, is insufficient for the conversion of the sugar into wine; hence that part of it which remains undecomposed is sweet. The use of the artificial leaven, yeast, may in some measure correct this defect, but the quantity added is generally inadequate to this object. "The addition of brandy," says Dr. Mac- culloch, *' so often recommended in the recipes for making fruit wines, so far from checking the wine from becoming sour, increases it; the tendency, and therefore the use of brandy as a preservative of wine, is founded on error. Dr. Macculloch recommends a certain pro- portion of crude tartar; the dose of which may vary from one to six per cent, -svithout materially affecting the wine, as a great proportion of what escapes decomposition wiLL be subsequently deposited. All fruits except the grape wili require more or loss of thia salt. In the manufacture of home-made wines, care therefore should bo taken not to use too small a proportion of fruit compared with th© augar employed; for it is in this cucumstance chi.jfiy which renders the fermentative process in- complete, and thus imphrts that sweet and mawkish taste to our domestic wines which renders them intolerable to many people, and even perhaps to all, without tho addition of brandy. Tho strength of the wine ia always proportional to the quantity of sugar employed, provided that sugar has been completely decomposed ; tho moat aaccharino juices, there- fore, afford tho strongest wine; or, in tho practice which is necessary in making wine from native fruits, that fluid will produce the strongest wine to which the greatest quantity of sugar has been added previously to fermen- tation, care being always taken to increase the quantity of leaven in auch a ratio aa to insure the complete decompoaition of the sugar, without which the produce gains in sweetness only without acquiring additional strength. But even with this precaution there is a limit to the quantity of augar that can be employed, and this limit is obviously the proportion of water which ia required to insure the ferment- ing process. The fermentation must continue the longer if it ia desired that the produce shall be a dry wine, and for a less time if it ia wished to produce a aweet wine. But if, on the contrarj', it is the wish of tho operator to preserve the flavour or bouquet of the wine, it is necessary that the period of the fermentation should be shortened. The case will be precisely the same if it is an object to have a brisk wine, as the carbonic acid, on which this quality exclusively dependa, will be dissipated irrecoverably by an undue protraction of the fermenting process. "Wines, Keeping of.—Wine is put into bottles for the sake of keeping it, and the placing these bottles in some sfife and con- venient place called a cellar is technically called cellaring. Some wines are not much improved by bottKng at all, and these one may drink direct from the cask. In wine countries it is not unconmion to drink the wine directly from the cask as we do beer. This is more especially done with the weaker and cheaper wines, and wine is occasionally thus consumed in thia country. "Wine from the wood is sold in some of our wine shops. Inferior red wines, sherries, and marsala, are said to improve more whilst on tap in the cask than when bottled. Weak wines cannot be kept long in the cask without a danger of the oxygen of the air converting their hydrated oxide of ethyle (alcohol) into the hy^ated tri-oxide of acetylo (vinegar), which is a result very much to be avoided by those who attach importance^to the flavour or atrength of their wines. Wine in casks gets altered by the evaporation of the water and the alcohol into the air, and also by the absorption of one or the other by the wood. These changes cannot happen when the wine is put into glass bottles. Wine can thus be ke])t long(>r in bottles without change than in wood. There is a notion that wine gets stronger