( 704 ) RAI RAM Raisin Wine Vinegar.—Raisins from which wino lias been made will make oxcoUunt vinegar, and as the stidka are very acid care should bo taken to pick them out, and throw them into thi) cask in which the vinegar is boing made. Take the raisins which have been used to make nine gallons of Avine. Put Avith them the di-egs and stalks, and pour four gallons of hot water over the whole. Cover the tub, and stir its contents occasionally. When no more goodness is to be got out of the fruit, strain the liquor, put it into a cask, and let it stand nine or ten months before it is bottled. Raisin Wine with Cider.—Be sure that the cider is perfectly sound and good, and take five pounds of fine Malaga raisins for each gallon of cider that is to be used. Put the fruit and the cider into a cask, stir it every day for four- days, bung it closely, and leave it un- touched for six months. Draw it off into a clean cask of a suitable size, add a bottle of fine brandy, and bung it again. Bottle at the end of twelve months. Raisin Wine with Cider (a light wine) —Cut thirty poimds of Malaga raisins, take out the stones, put them into a tub, and pour over them five gallons of boiling water; add the rind of ten Seville oranges and their juice ; stir all well ten minutes, and let them infuse ten days, closely covered up,, stirring every day. Press the fruit in a hair bag, and strain the liquor through a fine sieve, put it into a sweet ten-gallon cask, and fill up with strong cider. Stir it twenty minutes, cover the bvmg-hole with a tile, and let it ferment four or five days, filling up the cask as the liquor works out. When it has ceased hissing, dissolve half a pound of sugar- candy and an ounce of isinglass in two quarts of the wine ; pour it into the cask, stir well, and in two hours afterwards add a quart of French brandy. Stop up the bimg, paste paper over it, put sand upon that, and leave it twelve months in a cool cellar. You may then bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it nine or ten months in the bottles. Raisin Wine with Cider (a strong wine).—Take forty pounds of Malaga raisins, pick them from the stalks, cut them in halves, put them into a sweet eighteen- gallon cask, fiU it up with good sound cider, and bung it lightly. After three or four days, secure the bung, and at the end of six months draw off into a tub all that runs clear; press the liquor from the fruit into another vessel, filter this and the lees through a flannel bag, and put the whole into a ten-gallon cask, with two quarts of French brandy, the thin yellow rind of three fresh lemons and four Seville oranges, and half a pound of sugar- candy crushed small. Bung the cask securely; after twelve months, bottle the wine, seal the corks, and keep it for two years. Raisins, Baba with [xce Baba, Sec) Raisins, Varieties of.—The following interesting information about raisins is from " Berwick's Jlonthly Circular "—The muscatels are the most highly esteemed^ and are prepared by cutting the stalk half off that bears the bunch wlion the grapes are fully ripe, jc- movmg all leaves that can shade them, and allownig them thus to dry in the sun. These are culled " raiwins of the sun." Tho bunches are carefully removed, and packed in boxes in layers, with a paper separating each layer. A more common kind called Icxiaa is prepared by collecting tho gi-upos when ripe, and dipping them into a lye made from the ashes produced by burning the branchi^s of the vine. These are mostly from Valentia, as the prewiding kinds are from Malaga—both from Southern Spain. A small black raisin comes from Smyrna, in Asia Minor. It is dry, and gene- rally used for culinary purpcses. Another variety from Turkey in Asia, called Sultanas, is put up in drums, and although small, is de- licious. What we call currants, from the Grecian Islands, are really raisins, and should be so designated. They are small, seedless grapes, growing on the Islands of Zante, Corfu, and Cephalonia, on the western coast of Greece. Eaisins are imported in casks, barrels, boxes, and jars. The finest come in jars and quarter-boxes weighing about twenty- five pounds. Some of the inSerior sorts are brought to us in mats. The muscatels from Malaga fetch fully a third more than any other description of raisins. The Smj-ma black is the cheapest variety. The price depends much on the season and the period of the year. Raisinee.—^This is a rob, or sweetmeat, much thought of in France. Boil new wine, and skim it till only half the quantity remains. Strain it, add apples pared and cut into quarters, and let it simmer gently till the apples are thoroughly mixed with the wine, which will then be found to have a very agreeable acid taste. Cider may be used instead of wine. Raising de Bourgogne (a French recipe).—Press the juice from very ripe grapes, which put into a preserving-pan, and let it boil till it is reduced one-lialf; skim and stii* it all the time that it may not stick to the pan. Peel, quarter, and core some ripe pears, put them into the juice, and let them boil till it is again reduced by a third, when the pears will be done. You must keep stirring all the time. Put them into pots, and let them stand one night in the oven. Ramakin or Cheese Pudding.—Grat<> half a pound of good old Cheshire cheese, and mix a large table-spoonful of flour with it. Stir in gradually a little milk to moisten thf cheese, and afterwards add throe or four well- beaten eggs, and as much milk as will make th(^ batter of the consistency of cream. Half fill a buttered dish with the mixture, place little pieces of butter here and there upon the surface, and bake tho pudding in a brisk oven. When it is well risen and of a golden colour it is done enough. Serve as quicklj'- as possible after it is taken out of the oven, or it will opoil. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty mantes. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. {See also Cheese Pudding, &c.) Ramakins (served with the cheese course).—C4rul(i two ounces each of two kinds of cheese of dillorcnt flavour, such as Parmesan