( 1150 ) woo WBB woodcocks huvo been soaking in. Mask the bottom unci sidoH of a pio-dish with sonio of tho propurod forcemeat, arrange tho pieces of woodcock, tho truffles, and the ham in tho centre, alternating with forcemeat. The pio- dish must then be completely full; amootli the top with the blado of a knife, and mask it with Bliccs of bacon. Cover the preparation, and set the pio-dish in a saute-pan with a glassful of hot water, and push it into a moderate oven, to bake for an horn- and a half. When done, take it out; and when half-cold, put a light weight on tho top of tho preparation. When completely cold, take it off the pie, cut it in oblong squares, which dish in a circular order into the torrino. Woodcock, Trussed.—Pluck the bird entirely, head and neck included, and very carefully, to avoid tearing the tender skin. Singe oft" tho hairs and cut o£E the ends of the toes, but do not draw the birds. Twist the legs at the joints to bring the feet upon the thighs. Press the wings to the sides, and turn the head under the wing, with the beak forward. Tie a string round the legs and breast, and pass one also round the head and the tip of the bill. Hang the bird to the spit feet-downwards. Wood-hens (Russian fashion). — Take three or four wood-hens (ffelinottes), trum them, put them into a stewpan with butter, season, and fry them all over. When about done, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of sour cream, and finish cooking them, basting fre- quently. Drain them afterwards, cut each of them into three parts, and dish them up. Mix a little bechamel into the sauce, which reduce until of a good consistence, then pour it over the wood-hens, masking them .with a thick coating. Sprinkle over bread-crumbs, let them gratrnate in the oven till the sauce is sHghtly coloured. Wood-hens, Pain of (Swedish fashion). —Take out the meat from the breasts of three wood-hens (ffelinottes), pare, pound it in a mortar, and when converted into paste add, by degrees, half its volume of good butter and five or six y-olks of eggs. Season the prepara- tion, pass it through a sieve, put it into a kitchen basin, work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, then introduce into it the glair of an egg whipped up, and about the same quantity of whipped cream. When well mixed up, pour the preparation into a timbale mould, and poach at the "bain-marie" for twenty-five minutes. "WTien about to serve turn it out on a dish, and mask with a little bechamel sauce, reduced with a few table- spoonfuls of meat-glaze. Woodman's Sausages. — Take six pounds of young pork, quite free from skin, gristle, or fat, cut it small, and beat it fine in a mortar. Chop six pounds of beef suet very fine, shred a handful of sage-leaves fine, spread the meat on a clean dresser, and shake the sage, over it; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and throw it with sweet herbs on the meat; grate two nutmegs, to which put a spoonful of pepper and a largo spoonful of salt, throw the suet over, and mix all well together; put it down close in tho pot, and when used roll it up with as mucli egg as will make it smooth. Wood Pigeons.—Wood pigeons should be allowed to hang till tender before being di-essed. They may bo roasted, and served lik(/ common pigeons. Woodruff.—Tho woodruff is a fragrant little plant, which is found plentifully in woods and shady places. Tho odour is only percep- tible when the leaves are bruised, or when they are dried. Woodruff is used to flavour lilay wine (see May Wine). Worcester Sauce, To Make.—Mince two cloves of shallot, put the mince into a dry bottle, and pour over it a pint of Bordeaux vinegar. Add three table-spoonfuls of essence of anchovy, three table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, two table-spoonfuls of soy, and as much cayenne as is approved: the quantity cannot be given, as cayenne varies so much in quality. Cork the bottle, keep it in a cool place, and shake it well twice a day for a fort- night. Strain the sauce, put it in small bottles, cork closely, and store for use. Wormwood Lozenges.—Dissolve some gum tragacanth in water, and mix with it a little spirit of wormwood. Add as much powdered loaf sugar as will make a stiff paste, and beat the mixture thoroughly. Eoll it out to a sheet of the thickness of a penny-piece, stamp it into diamond-shaped pieces, and dry these in a cool oven. Wormwood Wine {see Vermoute). Wow Wow Sauce, for Boiled Beef or Bouilli.—Wash and pick a handful of parsley, and shred the leaves finely. Put them into a basia, and mix with them three bruised pickled walnuts. Make half a pint of melted but- ter, using for the purpose the fiquor in which the meat was boUed. Put it into a saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir into it a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a table-spoonful of port. Simmer the sauce, stir- ring it all the time, tUl it is thick. Add the parsley and the walnuts, simmer the sauce a minute longer, and serve. If liked, pickled cucumbers may be used instead of walnuts, and the flavoiu: of the sauce may be varied by the addition of any of the piquant vinegars. Wreaths.—Take one pound of flour, five eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, two or three spoonfuls of cream, two oimces of sugar, and a few grains of salt; make these in- gredients into a paste; roU out and form into rings or wreaths. Poll the wreaths in sugar, and bake on a tin in a slow oven. They may be covered with chopped almonds pressed down a little with the hand. Wreaths, Sugar (a Danish recipe).— Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and add four raw ones, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and half a pound of flour; knead to a stiff paste; pull off small pieces, dip each in flour, which roll with the hand and form into rings j