SYL SWI ( 962 ) ft ocol place thi-eo or four hours before it is wanted. Swiss Milk {see Cream). Swiss Pudding, Plain.—Take half a dozen laryo bakinj^ upplcH, pared, cored, and •uicod, and half a pound of iinoly-grated broad- ' crumbs. Butter a pie-dish, and cover the | bottom -with a layer of bread-crumbs. Add a I layer of sliced apples, and spi-inkle over these a little grated nutmeg or lemon-rind, and a largo ' spoonful of moist sugar. Fill the dish with ' aitcruatc layers of bread-crumbs and apples, and , let crumbs form the uppermost as we.U as the ; lowest layer. Place httlo pieces of butter hero and there on the top of the pudding, and pour half a cupful of water and the juice of the lemon upon it. Bako in a moderate oven. When the surface of che pudding is brightly browned, and the apples have fallen, it is done enough. Serve with finely-powdered sugar. If liked, six ounces of beef suet may be substi- tuted for the butter, and the ingredients may be mixed thoroughly, put into a buttered mould, j and boiled instead of being baked. Time to I bake, about two hours, less or more according to the quality of the apples; to boil, four hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Swiss Trifle.—Crumble a quarter of a pound of macaroons, and a quarter of a pound of ratafias, and put them into a glass dish. Pour a glassful of brandy upon them, and let them i soak for a while. Sweeten a pint of cream, and flavour with lemon-rind or any suitable flavouring. Put it into a saucepan, and stir into it a table-spoonful of ground rice which has been mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Let it boil gently tiU it begins to thicken, and stir it all the time. Pour it out, and when it is almost cold add the strained juice of two lemons. Pour the mixture upon the cakes. Stick blanched almonds into it, and let it stand an hour or two before it is used. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the milk with the rice. Probable cost, exclusive of the "brandy, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sydney Smith's Recipe for Salad {see Poet's Recipe for Salad). Syllabubs.—Soak the thin rind of a fresh lemon in a pint of sherry or madeira, and let it remain all night. Sweeten it well, and add three table-spoonfuls of brandy, a pint and a half of rich cream beaten up with the white of an egg, and the juice of the lemon. Beat the mixture to froth. As it rises place it in the glasses, pile it as high as possible, and place it in a cool place. In a little time the syllabubs will get firm, and settle into a highly-flavoured preparation covered with snowy froth. If liked, melted red-currant or black-currant jelly may be mixed with half the cream before it is whipped, and this will make the syllabubs contrast in colour. Syllabubs should be made the day before they are wanted. Syllabubs, Birthday {see Birthday Syllabubs). Syllabubs, Common.—Put four ounces of pounded sugar into a bowl, and add the rind of a loiuou, a grutod nutmeg, liuJf u pint of sweet wijic, and lialf a piut of sherry. Mix all thoroughly till the sugar is dissolved. Pour in with a tea-pot or spouted jug held at a good height a piut and a lialf of warm milk. Serve the syllabub cold. A little pounded cinnamon and clouted cream may be kid on the top. Sometimes cider is used instead of wine, and then a little brandy should certainly be added. Syllabubs, Devonshire (lee Devonshire Syllabubs). Syllabubs, Everlasting (wt-Everlasting Syllabubs). Syllabubs Ln Glasses.—Put a qiiartei of a pound of sugar into a small punch-bowl, and pour upon it the strained juice of a large fresh lemon. Stir the mixture briskly, and add a tumblerful of port, a tumblerful of sherry, and half a tumblerful of brandy. Add half a nutmeg grated, place the bowl under the cow, and fill it till it froths high in the bowl. In serving put a little curd into each glass, fill it with whey, and place a spoonful of thick cream on the top. Syllabubs, Large.—Put half a pound of powdered white sugar into a bowl, and strain upon it the juice of two lemons. Add the grated rind of one lemon, a glassful of madeira, a glass- ful of sweet wine, a little powdered cinnamon^ and as much ratafia as will flavour the mixture pleasantly. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add a quart of cream, and whisk the prepara- tion to a froth. Lay some macaroons in the bottom of a dish. As the froth rises pile it upon the biscuits. Keep it in a cool place. This syllabub ought to be made a couple of daj's before it is wanted. It will keep five or six days. Syllabubs, Lemon {see Lemon Sylla- bubs). Syllabubs, London {see London Sylla- bubs). Syllabubs, Simple.—Take a pint of cream, and put to it the whites of thi-ee eggs well beaten, add the juice of one lemon, three spoonfuls of wine, grated lemon-peel, and sugar according to taste. Have the glasses ready with a little wine in each of them ; whisk the cream, and as the f rotli rises fill the glasses. Syllabubs, Solid.—Take one quart of cream, one quart of white wine, the juice of two lemons, the grated peel of a lemon, and sugar to taste. Mix these ingredients, mill them to a froth, then take off the scum as it rises, and place it to drain on a hair sieve. Half fill the glasses with the scum, and heap the froth on it. Syllabubs that will keep a week or ten days.—Put the grated rind and stramed juice of three lemons upon a pound of powdered sugar. Add a pint and a half of good wine, and a quart of thick cream. A little brandy may be added or not. Whisk the mixture patiently one way till it is well frothed. As the froth rises, take it off gently, and pQe it in glasses. Sprinkle some hundreds and thousands