( 746 ) KIC Bid coustuntly until it leaves the bottom of the sHucopiin, thi'n pour it into a mould. Whon it is quite cold and still", turn it out, and stick all over it blanched sweet almonds cut into straws. Pour cream or tliin custiud round the lluiumory, or a aauco made witli wim^, lemon-juice, and suf^ar. If preferred, cinnamon, lemon-rind, or vanilla may be used to flavour the llummery instead of almonds. Time, about U;u minutes to boil the rice. I'robablo cost, exclusive of tlio sauce, 6d. Suflicient for a pint mould. Bice Food, Savoury.—The following recipe we extract from iSoycr's " C!haritable Cookery." The ingredients are si.x pounds of bones, ten quarts of water, throe ounces of salt, bay-leaves, &c., two onions cut thin, half an ounce of sugar, half a pound of vegetables cut small, half a pound of oatmeal, a pound of rice, and two ounces of dripping. " Having saved the bones of the previous day, a very good food may be made thus:—Take six pounds of bones, which break into small pieces, and boil in ten quarts of water for four houi-s, having added thi'ee ounces of salt, a small bunch of thyme, bay-leaf, and savory; put into a stewpan the fat, and two onions cut thin, half a pound of vegetables—as carrots, turnips, celery, &c.—cut very thin, and half an ounce of sugar; put it on the tire for tiftccn minutes, stirring it occasionally, add half a pound of oat- meal, and mbc well, moisten with two gallons of the stock from the bones, add a pound and a quarter of rice previously soaked; boil till tender, and serve." Rice for Curried Oysters aad Similar Dishes.—Wash a quarter of a jiouud of lice in two oi' three waters-. Drain it, thi'ow it into <i saucepan of fast-boiling water, and let it boil quickly for ten minutes. Drain it again, and boil it in thi'ce-quarters of a pint of milk till the grains are tender with- out being broken. Drain, dry it on a sieve, tossing it lightly with two forks, to separate the gi'ains, and serve hot. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes to boil the rice in the milk. Probable cost, 2hd. Sufficient for four or five persons. (See also Rice boiled for Curry.) Bice for a Pilau Pilau, Rice for a). Rice, Fowl Boiled with, {sec Fowl Boiled, &c.). Rice. Fowl Stewed in.—Take a fowl, half boil it in a nujdcrate quantity of water, then put to it a (|uarter of a pound of rice with some mace. Stew the fowl till it beeoiues tender. Some well-seas(jiu;d veal brotli added during the stewing will make the dish more savoury. Take care to stew the fowl till it beconu's tender; it nmst not, however, be too nnich .stewed, or it will full to pieces and lose its foi-m. Rice, Fowl with {mr. Fo^\•l ^^•ith Rice). Rice Fritters.—Boil three ounces of rice in a pint of new milk till it fonns a stiff paste. Sweeten it, flavour with gi-aled lenum-rind, or powdered ciiniamon, mace, or niitinesr, and boat il up witli twfi table-spoonfuls of cream. tw.> eggs, and a spoonful of bnmdy, if liked. liOt the rice get cold, and form it into balk iilxjut im large as nuts; dip theue in egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry (juickly. When the balls are nicely browned, pile them on a white doily, strew sifted sugar over them, and nvrvii hot. S(;nd wine sauce to table with them. (Jr, boil three ounces of rice in a ])int of milk to a stiff paste. Sweeten and flavour it, and mix with it two well-beaten eggs, an ounce of fresh butter, and two table- spoonfuls of orange mannabide. Stir it over the tire till the eggs are set, then spread it on a dish to cool. Cut it into narrow strips the length and thickness of a finger, dip these into frying-batter, and fry in hot fat till they aie brightly browned. Powder sugar over them, and serve on a napkin. The batter may be made as follows: —I\Ielt an ounw; of butter in half a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and cool it by adding an equal quantity of cold water. Stir in gradually four ounces of flour, and beat the mixture till it is smooth. Add the well-whisked white of an egg, and Uhc immediately. Or, mix a quarter of a pound of ground rice smoothly with a pint of milk, and add a pinch of salt and three table-spoon- fuls of sugar. Stir the mixture over the tire till it leaves the saucepan with the spoon, then pour it out, and when cold add two table- spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and a little flavoui'ing, and beat the mixture till smooth. Pry it in spoonfuls in hot fat. WTien the fritters are nicely bi'owned, drain them on a sieve, and serve on a neatly-folded mipkin, with powdered sugar sifted over them. Time to fry, six or seven minutes. Sufficient foi- five I or six persons. I Rice Froth.—Wash a qutirler of a pouiiu of rice, and boil it in a pint of water until t he liquor is absorbed. Pom- over the rice a quart of milk, and let it boil gently till it is tender. Stir frequently to keep it from burning. Sweeten and flavour -w-ith lemon or almond flavoui-ing. If the flavouring is an essence, it should be dropped upon the sugar; if lemon- rind or almonds are used, they should be boiled with the milk. Put the rice and milk when cold into a glass dish. Beat the whites of three eggs to froth, and mix with them a dessert- spoonful of powdered and sifted sugar. La>- this on the rice, and place on the top in spoon- fuls a quarter of a pound of raspbeny jam. Rice Froth (another way.)—To one-tliinl of a j)0\md of rice allow one quart of new milk, the whites of three eggs, three ounces of loaf sugar finely-pounded, a stick of cinnamon, or eight or ten di'ops of almond fljtvouring, or si.x or eight young lam-el-leave,«, and a quarter of h l)<)und of raspberry jam. Boil the rice in a jiini of water. When the rice is iilj-sorhed. add the milk, and let it go on boiling until quite tender, keejiing it stirred to prevent burning. If cin- namon or laur(>l-leavcs are used, boil thc-m with the milk, iind remove them when the rice is .sufficiently done; if essence of Mlmnnds be used as a flavouring, it may be added with the sugar. When the rice-milk is cold, put it into a glass di.sh or china bowl, beat u]> the whites of the (>gg8 to froth, sweeten lightly. ' cover the rice with it, and sti<!k >)its of r isp-