BAB RAB ( 690 ) oyer the whole, and strew over it some Spanish pimento ; liuvo sonio liuttor roiidy, pour it into the dish, and bakt; tho pute in a (|uick ovon fur half an liour. lii'diico tho liquid in which it was dressed, and add tho juico of a lemon ; wlicn tho pate is done enouy:h, place it in anotlier dish, aud servo with tho aauco poured round it. Babbit Patties.—Take tlio white moat from a euld-dressed rabbit. Free it from skin and sinew, niinee it finely with a small por- tion of good suet, and put it aside. Bruise the bones, put iliom into a stewpan with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and gral ed lemon-rind, and let them simmer until the gi-avy is pleasantly flavoured. Tliicken it witli a little flour and butter, and stew the mince in this till it is qiiito hot. Bako the patties in patty- pans, take them out of the oven, and half fill them with tho hot mince. Put on the covers, and pile them on a napkin. Time, about an hour to simmer the gravy. Probable cost of patties, 2d. each. Sufficient, a dozen for a dish. Babbit Pie.—Take two fine wild rabbits, cut them into joints, and lay them in a little lukewarm water salted, so as to cleanse them from all unnecessary blood. Dry them in a clean cloth, flour them nicely, and season with cayenne and salt; then arrange these joints neatly in a suitable-sized pie-dish; parboil the livers, and beat them in a mortar with their weight of fat bacon, a few bearded oysters, sweet herbs, and parsley chopped fine, a dust of flour, and a few bread-crumbs; with an egg make this up into small balls, and distribute these in the dish with some artichoke bottoms cut into dice. AVith your rabbit place also one pound of fat pork that has been at least a week in. pickle; cut the pork into small pieces, and judiciously place it with the baUs and rabbit. Grate over all half a good-sized nutmeg, and then add half a pint of port wine and the same quantity of water. Cover with a tolerably tliick good crust, and bake an hour and a half or more in f> moderate oven; when nearlv done, place over the crust a buttered paper to prevent its becoming too brown. If time will permit, the rabbits be much better flavoured if the nutmeg and wine are placed over them the night before they are wanted, so as to allow the meat to absorb the flavour. A small piece of tender rump steak placed at the bottom of the dish is also an improvement to the gravy, though a good cook should never be without a 8tock-pot, so as to have gravy at command when needed, either to add to a pie when the baking ifl finished or for serving with poultry or game. Babbit Pie (another way).—Put into the bottom of a baking-dish a few slices of ham or beef; cut the rabbit into as many bits as you like; season each bit with salt, pepper, pounded spices, &c.; put them in a dish as close as pos- sible, add a glassful of broth if you have any; if net, a wino-glassfiil of water and a di-op of white wine; cover this dish quite close with a good crust, beat an egg in a gallipot, and with a paste-brush rub it twice over the paste, and l»ake in a hot oven for an hour and a half, when the pie wiU be ready for serving. Whether hot or cold, this diah is excellent. Kemember tlmt if tli(3 rabbit pie is to be eaten cold it must be nmc.li more liigldy seasoned than when made to be eaten liot. Babbit Pie, Plain.—Be careful to choose a young rabbit. .Skin, empty, and wash it, and cut it into ten or tw(;lve neat joints. If th(! licad is put into the pie, split it into Imlves, and lay the pieces in lukewarm water for half an liour. Drain and dry them, put them into a largo pie-dish, tho inferior joints at the bottom, and put with them three or four slices of fat bacon. Mix a tea-spoonful of salt, lialf a tea-si)oonf ul of white pepper, and half a blade of powdered mace, and spnnkle this powder over tho rabbits; a little minced onion may be added, if liked. Barely cover the rabbits with cold stock or water. Lay a plate on the dish, and bake the rabbits in a modei-ate oven till they are three-parts cooked. Let the dish cool, cover it with pastry in the usual way, ornament it prettily, and make a hole in the centre, brush it over with egg, and bake in a well-heated oven till the pastry is done enough. Serve it either hot or cold. Some cooks slice potatoes thinly, and lay them in the bottom of the dish before they put in the rabbit. Time, three-quarters of an hour to bake the pie. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit Pie, Plain (another way).— Prepare the rabbit as before, cut it into neat joints, and lay these in water for an hour, dr\' them well, and season each one with salt and pepper. Cut three-quarters of a pound of bacon into neat squares. Lay the inferior joints of the rabbit at the bottom of a deep dish, put upon them two or three pieces of bacon, and three parts fill the dish with alter- nate layers of rabbit and bacon. Dredge a little flour, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley and a little minced shallot lightly over each layer, and put two bay-leaves on the top. Pour in half a pint of stock or water, cover the pie with pastry in the usual way, brush over with egg, make a hole in tho top, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn it about, that it may bake equally, and, if necessary, place a piece of paper upon it to keep it from burn- ing. "When done enough, pour into it one or two spoonfuls of nicely-flavoured gravy, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit Pie, Baised.—Take the meat from a fine young rabbit, cut it into small neat pieces, and season nicely with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut lialf a pound of fat bacon into dice. Make a raised crust according to the directions already given, and form the pie to any shape that may be wished, being careful that the sides are stiff and finn. Put in the pieces of meat and bacon, pack them tightly, and intersperse amongst them tlio yolks of three or four hard-l)oilod eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. Pour a little tomato sauce over all, or failing this a spoonful or two of good gravy, which will be a jelly when cold. Cover the pie with pastry, brush it o\ er with