TUB ( 1020 ) TUB fill of Bait, a pinch of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of chopped paraley, and half a nutmeg grated. I'ound thcao iugredieutH together till tlioy are thoroughly niixod and quite smooth, then add the yolks of tliree eggs boiled hard and tlio yolks of two raw eggs. Dredge a little Hour on the table, and roll out the preparation. Make it into balls the size of a small nutmeg, throw these into boiling water slightly salted, and lot them boil till they are hard. Drain them on a sieve, and put them into the soup a few minutes before serving. They are supposed to repre- sent the eggs of the turtle. Time to boil, six minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. for this quan- tity. Sufficient, one forcemeat ball for each guest. Turtle Soup from Dried Turtle riesh..—Three or four days before the soup is wanted, buy a quarter of a pound of dried turtle tiesh. Soak it in lukewai-m water thi-ee days and three nights. Change the water every twelve hours, and if a slightly unpleasant odour firises from the flesh, rub it lightly over with salt. Whilst the soaking process is going on keep the basin containing the tui'tle in a warm place, and during the night let it stand in a cool oven. For the last twelve hours let the ■water in which it is soaked be of a good warmth. When the meat has been soaked till it has lost its gluey appearance, and is swollen and comparatively soft, cut it into neat pieces two inches square, and boil it gently for twelve hours in strong stock prepared as follows:—Put a slice of lean, undi-essed ham into a gallon saucepan with a pound and a half of gravy beef, a pound and a half of knuckle of veal, two onions, each one with three cloves stuclc into it, a head of celery, a small turnip and carrot, as much parsley as will fill a teacup, three tea-spoonfiUs of dried marjoram, three tea-spoonfuls of dried basil, one or two mush- rooms if they are at hand, half a tea-spoonful of lemon thyme, half a salt-spoonful of penny- royal, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a small pinch of cayenne. If any chicken bones or pieces of cold roast meat are at hand they may be added to the rest. Fill the saucepan with cold water, simmer the soup very gently for twelve hours, and remove the scum as it rises. The soup must on no account be left in the saucepan all night; but if the simmering is not finished at night, the soup must be poured out into a basin, set in a cool place, and put on the fire again next day. When the soup has been reduced to two quarts, strain carefully, and remove the fat with scrupulous care. Get a pound and a half of fresh eels, cut them into pieces two inches long, and boil these in the stock. When they are tender, lift them out of the stock, and again strain it by passing it through a jelly-bag two or three times; if necessarj', clear it with white of egg. When it is clear put in the pieces of turtle flesh, and boil them gently till they are as tender as well- di-essed calf's head. At the last moment add a claret-glassful of good madeira or good golden sherry. Pour the soup into the tureen, add a few drops of lomon-juicc, and it will be ready for serving. If it is necessary to clarify the soup, whisk the white of an egg with a cupful of cold water. Stir this liriskly into the soup \yhon it is just warm, let it boil, and gently lift ott" the scum as it rises. Draw the saucepan to the side, and let the soup simmer gently for lialf an hour. Let it stand a quailer of an hour to settle, and strain thr(jugh a jeUy-bag. If th(! soup has been gently simiiK.red and care- fully skimmed, it will most Hkely need only to be passed two or three times through a jelly-bag. If thick soup is prefen-ed to clear soup, moisten a table-spoonful of brown thickcuiiig with a small portion of the soup. When it is quite smooth, pour it into the saucepan, and stir till it boils. When this thickening is used, it will be ne- cessary to let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire with the lid on for a short time, tliat the fat may rise to the surface and be removed. The eels which are stewed in the stock may be served as eel souchet, and will make a good dish. As the pieces of eel are taken out of the soup, throw them into a pan of boiling water for one minute. Lay them into a dish with as much boiling water as wiU cover them, put with them one or two sprigs of fresh parsley, and send brown bread and butter to table with them. Time, four or five days to prepare the soup. Probable cost, turtle flesh, lOs. per pound. Sufiicient for three pints of soup. Turtle Soup from Tinned Tiirtle.— When the tui'tle is not sent alive to its desti- nation, it is killed as soon as it is caught, put into tins hermetically sealed, and then used for making soup. In this case the stock should be prepared and seasoned as for turtle soup, and the tinned meat, which is in a jelly, should be cut up and stewed in the stock. Turtle soup thus prepared requires to be seasoned rather highly, and a few mushrooms or truffles should be used in the flavouring, in order to take away the taste of the tin. Probable cost, 7s. 6d. Sufficient for flve or six quarts of soup. Turtle Soup, Mock—Put into a large pan or jar a knuckle of veal, two well-cleaned cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, a little all- spice, mace, and some sweet herbs, cover all with two and a half quarts of water, and set it in a hot oven for three hours. Then remove it, and when cold take off the fat very nicely; take away the bones and coarse parts, and when required put the remainder on the fire to warm with a table-spoonful of moist sugar, two of walnut, and one of mushroom ketchup ; add to these ingredients the jelly of the meat. When it is quite hot, put in the forcemeat balls, and add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Turtle Soup, Mock (another way).-- Take half a calf^s head, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, two table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, a little minced lemon th^-me, a little sweet marjoram and basil, two onions, a few chopped mush- rooms, two shallots, two tablo-spoonfuls of flour, one do/.cn and a half forcemeat bal s about the size of a nutmeg, cayenne and s;ill to suit your taste, the juice of one lemon a Seville orjinge, one dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, and three quarts of best stock. Turtle Soup, Mock (another way).- Takc half a calf's head wth the ekin on,