PEA ( 521 ) PEA be of the best. Put half a dozen fine ripe peaches into the syrup. Take off the skins, and remove the stones if their absence is do- sired. Simnier very gently for about twenty minutes, but not so long if the fruit be <iivi<ied to take out the stones. Put the fruit on a dish; but reduce the syrup by fast boiling, and boil a few of the kernels, blanched, with it. Serve either hot or cold. Peaches, Compote of (another way). Pai-e, halve, and stone half a dozen ripe peaches, and simmer until they are soft enough to be pierced by a needle, in a syrup, made by boiling a quarter of a pound of sugar in half a pint of water for a quarter of an hour. When done enough, put them into a dish, and pour half the syrup over them. Throw into the other half of the syrup two pounds of ripe peaches, which have been pared, cored, and sliced; add four ounces of sugar and a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and simmer the fruit, stirring it constantly, until it is reduced to a firm, smooth, dry pulp. Spread half of this in a smooth layer at the bottom of a glass dish, pile the stewed peaches in the centre, fill the spaces between them with the remainder of the marmalade; then reduce the half of the sjTup which was first taken out until it is quite thick, and pour it upon the fruit. Garnish the dish with macaroons, blanch and slice the kernels, and strew them equally over the surface. Time to prepare, one hour or more. Probable cost, 3s. or 4s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Peaches, Plane of; or Peaches in a Raised Crust.—Make three-quarters of a pound of good short crust, and roll it out until it is half an inch thick. Butter well the inside of a mould, and Kne it with the crust, pressing the crust so that it may take the form of the mould. Pinch the part that rises above the mould with the pincers, fill the case with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. When the crust is firm, remove the flour, carefully take the case out of the mould, and put it into the oven a few minutes longer to dry. Di\'ide a dozen peaches into halves, boil them until tender in a syi'up made of six ounces of loaf sugar and half a pint of water. When they are sufficiently cooked, lift them out one by one, and put them into the case. Boil the syrup a few minutes longer, add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, colour with a little cochineal, let it cool, then pour it over the fruit. A few of the kernels, blanched and quartered, may be introduced, if liked. Time, about one hour to bake the flanc; twenty minutes to prepare the fruit. Probable cost, 28. 6d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Peaches, Pickled.—Take a dozen sound poaches which have been gathered before they are fully ripe. Rub them well with a soft cloth, and put them into a brine made by boiling a pound of salt in throe quarts of water for one minute. Skim the liquid carefully, pour it, when cold, over the peaches, put a thin board on the top to keep them under the water, and let them remain for three days. At the end of that time lift them out carefully, put them into a largo earthenware jar, and pour over them a 11* pickle prepared as follows:—Boil half a gallon of vinegar with a quarter of a pound of bruised ginger, a dessert-spoonful of salt, three large blades of mace, one pound of mustard, a quarter of a pound of whole pepper, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne tied in muslin. Skim the liquid care- fully, and pour it, whenboiling, upon the peaches. Cover the jar with a bladder, and store in a cool dry place. The pickled peaches will be ready for use in nine or ten weeks. If it is -wnshed to pickle the peaches as an imitation of pickled mangoes, take each peach singly, after it has been drained from the brine, and cut out of the stalk end a round piece, an inch in diameter, draw out the stone, and put in its place a little fresh mustard-seed which has been washed in vinegar and flavoured with a finely-minced shallot and a pinch of cayenne. Put the piece back again, and secure it in its place with strong thread; then proceed according to the directions given above. Time, ten minutes to boil the vinegar with the spices. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches, Pickled (another way).—Take the peaches when they are sound, but not over- ripe. Rub the down from them, and stick flve cloves into each peach. Place them side by side in a deep jar, and pour over them as much hot pickle as will cover them, made by boiling one pound of moist sugar with each quart of vinegar. Set the jar aside for ten days, then drain off the vinegar; let it boil once more, skim it well, and again pour it upon the peaches. Let them get quite cold, then lift them care- fully into glass or earthenware jars, cover them with the vinegar, and tie down securely. Store in a cool dry place. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches Preserved in Brand.y.— Gather the peaches when they are perfectly sound,' but fully ripe. Make as much sjTup as will cover them, boiling ten ounces of loaf sugar with every three-quarters of a pint of water until the sugar is dissolved. Pare the peaches, put them into the syrup, and simmer gently until they are so tender that a needle can be easily passed through them. As they reach this condition, lift them out one by one vnth a skimmer, and put them carefully into the jar intended for them, which they must only half fill. Pour the syrup over them, and within two inches of the top, add a few of the blanched kernels, and when the syrup is cold fill up the jar with brandy. Cork closely, and cover the corks ^vith bladder. It is well to examine the jars occasionally, and as the fruit absorbs the brandy to add more. If it should happen that the peaches are not quite ripe, pour boiling water over them, and keep them near the fire until the skin can be easily dra\vn off. Probable cost of peaches, 2d. to 6d. each. Peaches Preserved in Brandy (ano- ther way).—Put the peaches into cold water, and simmer them very gently until thoy begin to soften. Lift the .a out carefully one by one, drain them, and when they are cold put them into glass jars. Crush a pound and a half of white sugar-candy to powder. Dissolve it in a