lies cabsbll's cookery. We will now namo Bomo of tho disadvantages of tlie close stoves. One of the most commonly felt is perhaps the diiiiculty of airhxg clothes. The close stoves unless heated almost to redness, rarely throw out suliicient heat to ai)' linen properly • and m huiulu.s wluuo there are many yoimg children the inconvenience in consider- able, unless other hres are lit for tlu^ ]mi-pose. Secondly, close stoves undoubtedly do not cook large joints, such as haiuiches of mutton, equally well witli large ojien grates, owing to tlie fact that basting is so much easier a process in tlie latter than in tho former. And basting is an impoi-tant point in roasting, and one that is too often overlooked. Another drawback to shut-up stoves, especially those in which the tii-e is quite closed from view, is that servants are apt to overlook the fire altogether, and let it go out. In choosing close stoves, it is always as well to guard against those whose chief merit seems to consist in a number of ingenious contrivances, such as regulating the flow of air, adapting the hot plate to different-sized saucepans, <fec. Ash trays, iron rings, knobs, &c., are all liable to break, and some of these small stoves, that are not bricked into the fii-eplace, but stand on four legs like a table, will often be found very brittle, and are sometimes even broken in being put up. They are also apt to crack if, when hot,- a little cold water is spilt on them, and as this is a probable occurrence occasionally in every kitchen, of course these stoves possess but little wear. Salad Basket.—This is a wire basket of a peculiar form, used to shake salad in, so as to dry it perfectly after it has been washed. In France these baskets are in very general use. When they are not at hand, the salad, after being washed, should be put a small quantity at a time into a clean dry cloth. This should be taken up by the four corners and shaken till the salad is diy, when it may be put into the salad bowl. An ingenious person could twist a little wire to form a basket, which would answer the purpose intended. Probable cost, 3s. or 4s. 6d. Salamander.—A salamander is used to impart a brown coloiu' to any preparation wanting it. The instrument is made red-hot, and is held close to the preparation until it is sufiB<;iently browned. When a salamander is not at hand, a fii-e shovel made red-hot will answer the same purpose. Probable cost, from 6s. 9d. Saucepans.—Saucepans are of various kinds, and are made in all sizes. In a well-furnished kitchen there is generally a complete set, with the sizes in gi'adation, and the efficient cook prides herself not only upon their perfect cleanliness inside, but upon their bright and polished exteriors. Saucepans are made of tinned copper, iron, plain or lined with tin or enamel, titi, and earthenware. Of late they have been made of seamless steel, coated with tin inside and outside, and this kind of ware was solely used at the cookery departme)it of the Health Exliibition : it has all the advantages of tinned copper, at the cost of wrought-iron. Those most frequently used are made either of cast iron or of blocked-tin. Cast-iron saucepans are fre- quently lined with enamel. With care they will last for years. Blocked-tin ones also are very good, and though not so durable, can be mended more easily than iron ones. Small saucepans are made of porcelain also. They are excellent for sauces and very delicate preparations, and can be washed like a plate. The objection to them is that they are exceedingly brittle and crack very quickly. All saucepans of whatever kind should be kept scrupulously clean. They should be washed, scoured with fine sand or ashes, and well rinsed each time they are used. Tinned saucepans should be examined frequently, and as soon as the tin shows any sign of wearing off, they should be re-tinned. This is especially necessary with copper saucepans, which, when red, not only spoil the colour of anything that is boiled in them, but make it poisonous. The cost of saucepans is exceedingly variable, according to size and quality. Saw.—A meat saw is used for dividing the bones of a fresh joint The meat will of course need to be cut close to the bone before the saw can be used. The saw should be carefully wiped when it is done with, and hung in a dry safe place. If any damp gets to it, it will rust, and be quite spoilt. Probable cost, from 3s. 9d. Scales and Weights.- Although some cooks are very proud of being able to