PLO ( 684 ) PLO " Bitter poisons, for which acids, astringents, wine, spirits, and spices, ai-e useful correctives :— Chelidonium majus, Cicuta virosa, Colchicuiu autumnale, (Enanthe crocata, Cerasus Lauro- corasus. The berries of the last-named are used for pies and puddings in the neighbour- hood of Moor Park, Hertfordshire, but the leaves are deleterious. "Acrid poisons, which should be counteracted by powerful astringents, as bark, and after- wards the stomach restored by soft mucilaginous matters, as milk, fat broth, &c.:—Aconitum Napellus and Lycoctonum, Actsea spicata, Rhus Toxicodendron. "Stupefying poisons, to be counteracted by vegetable acids and emetics:—^thusa Cyna- pium, Atropa Belladonna, Datura Stramonium, Hyoscyamus niger, Solanum Dulcamara and ni- grum, Lactuca virosa, Apium graveolens. The two last-named plants, it is well known, aflEord, in_ a cultivated state, lettuce and celery, but wild, in hedges and ditches, they are poisonous. " Foetid poisons, to be attacked by ether, wine, or acids :—Coniimi macidatum. Digitalis purpurea, HeUeborus foetidus, Juniperus Sabina, Scrophulaxia aquatica. " Drastic poisons, to be corrected by acids, alkalies, and astringents:—Asclepias syriaca, Bryonia dioica, Euphorbia Lathja-is and amyg- daloides, Mercurialis perennis and annua, Peri- ploca grajca, Veratrum album." Plomb, Gateau de (see Gateau de Plomb). Plombiere's Ice.—Blanch and peel six ounces of Jordan almonds and ten bitter ones. Dry them in a soft cloth, and pound to a smooth paste with a little orange-flower water. Stir this paste into a pint and a half of boiling milk, then press the liquid through a jelly-bag. Mix ten yolks of eggs,well beaten with the milk, and stir the custard over a moderate fire imtil it begins to thicken. Take it off the fii-e, stir two or three minutes longer, and strain it once more through a tamis. When cold freeze it, and when it is ready for serving mould three rings of the iced cream, diminishing in size as they go up. Fill the centre with apricot jam, and serve. Time, about ten minutes to boil the custard. Suificient for six or seven persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Plover.—Though several kinds of plover are knoAvn to naturalists, two species onl}' are recognised in cookery—the golden plover and the grey plover. The golden plover is the commoner, and the grey plover the larger of the two, though both are smaller than a woodcock. They are pleasantly-flavoured birds, and are best when roasted lilce woodcock without being drawn. In favourable weatlior they wiU keep good some time, and are bettor for being kept. They are at their best from September to January. The eggs of the plover are highly esteemed. Plover, Golden, Roasted.—Truss like woodcock, and roast before a brisk fire. Put a slice of the toasted crumb of bread about half an inch thick imder the birds, and baste con- stantly with butter until suflBciently cooked. Serve the plovers on the toast, which should be well saturated with the basting and the trail. Pour some good gravy over them in the dish {nvc Gravy for Game). Time, about a qiiai-t<ir of an hour to roast. Probable cost, 28. Gd. per brace. Sufficient, a brace for two persons. THE GOLDEN PLOVEE. Plovers, Choosing of. — Choose those birds which feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects plovers should be selected by the same marks as other fowls. When stale, the feet are dry. Plovers wiU keep a long time. In consequence of a pecu- liarity in the flavour of the plover, the bird is not universally liked; by some, however, it is a favourite. The grey plover is superior, as game, to the green. Plovers' Eggs.—Plovers' eggs are es- teemed a great delicacy. They are usually boiled hard, and sent to table either hot or cold. If hot thej' should be placed on a napkin; if cold in a moss-lined basket. They are frequently shelled, and served with good white sauce or brown gravy poured over them; or used as a garnish for salads. Half a dozen plovers' eggs neatly arranged in a moss basket form a ver^' pretty addition to the breakfast-table. One of the little baskets in which fruit is sold by the greengrocers may be utilised for the purpose. It should have a twist of wire fastened into it for a handle, then be brushed* over with gum, and both handle and basket entirely covered with green. If no other moss is at hand, I packets may be bought at the greengrocer's for I a trifling sum. Time to boil the eggs, ten minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. SufBcient —aUow one or two for each person. Plovers' Eggs {see also Eggs, Plovers'). Plovers Priedwith English Truffles. Pluck foiu- plovers, and truss tliom as if for roasting. Lay them breast downwards in a stewpan, with four ounces of fresh butter and seven or eight raw truffles which have been washed perfectly clean, \Nnped, pared very thin, and cut into slices about the size of a ])onny. Add two cloves, a bay-leaf, and a little salt and pepper. Stir the whole gently over a sharp iiro for ten minutes, then pour in a pint of stock which has been smoothly mixed with a dessert-