BITM ( 777 ) BUM immediately. Time to steam the pudding, one hour. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the rum. Sufficient for three persons. Bujn Shrub.—This is a liqueur of which rum forms the alcoholic base; the other mate- rials are sugar, lime or lemon-juice, and the rind of these fruits added to give flavour. There are many recipes for the manufacture of rum shrub, almost every maker having his own, which he holds to be the best ever invented. Rum Shrub, To Make—To give one method of making rum shrub :—Pour a pint of cold water over the rinds of two or three Seville oranges, and let them infuse for a day or two. Strain the liqueur, and boil it with two pounds of loaf sugar to syrup. Add a pint of strained Seville orange-juice and three pints of Jamaica Txim. Fnter the preparation, and bottle for use. Time, three days. Rumford, Count,on Hasty-pudding. —In regard to the most advantageous method of using Indian com as food, I would strongly recommend, particularly when it is employed for feeding the poor, a dish made of it that is in the highest estimation throughout America, and which is really very good and very nourish- ing. This is called hasty-pudding, and it is made in the following manner: —A quantity of water, proportioned to the quantity of hasty- pudding intended to be made, is put over the fire in an open iron pot or kettle, and, a proper quantity of salt for seasoning the pudding being previously dissolved in the water, Indian meal is stirred into it by little and little, with a wooden spoon with a long handle, while the water goes on to be heated and made to boil; great care being taken to put in the meal by very small quantities, and by sifting it slowly through the fingers of the left hand, and stirring the water about very briskly at the same time with the wooden spoon with the right hand to miY the meal with the water in such a manner as to prevent lumps being formed. The meal should be added so slowly that, when the water is brought to boil, the mass should not be thicker than water-gruel, and half an hour more at least should be employed to add the additional qviantity of meal necessary for bringing the pudding to be of the proper consistence, during which time it should be stirred about continually and kept boiling. The method of determining when the pudding has acquired the proper con- sistency is this:—The wooden spoon used for stirring it being placed in the middle of the kettle, if it falls down more meal may be added, but if the pudding is sufficiently thick and ad- hesive to support it in a vertical position, it is declared to be proof, and no more meal is added. If the boiling, instead of being continued only half an hour, be prolonged to three-quarters of an hour or an hour, the pudding will be con- siderably improved by the prolongation. _ The hasty-pudding, when done, may be eaten in various ways. It may be put, while hot, by spoonfuls into a bowl of milk, and eaten with the mUk with a spoon in lieu of bread; and used in this way it is remarkably palatable. It may likewise be eaten, while hot, with a sauce composed of butter and brown sugar, or butter and molasses, with or without a few diops of vinegar; and however people who have not been accustomed to this American cookery may be prejudiced against it, they will find upon trial that it makes a most excellent dish, and one which never fails to be much liked by those who are accustomed to it. The universal fond- ness of Americans for it proves that it must have some merit; for, in a coimtry which pro- duces all the delicacies of the table in the greatest abundance, it is not to be supposed that a whole nation should have a taste so depraved as to give a decided preference to any particular species of food which has not some- thing to recommend it. The manner in which hasty-pudding is eaten with butter and sugar, or butter and molasses, ' in America, is as follows: —The hasty-pudding being spread out equally upon a plate while hot, an excavation is made in the middle of it with a spoon, into which excavation a piece of butter as large as a nutmeg is put, and upon it a spoon- ful of brown sugar, or, more commonly, of molasses. The butter, being soon melted by the heat of the pudding, mixes with the sugar or molasses, and forms a sauce, which, being confined to the excavation made for it, occupies the middle of the plate. The pudding is then eaten with a spoon, each spoonful of it being dipped into the sauce before it is carried to the mouth, care being had in taking it up to begin at the outside or near the rim of the plate, and to approach the centre by gradual advances, in order not to demolish too soon the excavation which forms the reservoir for the sauce.—"An Essay on Food," by Count Kumford. Rumford's Plain Indian Pudding.— "This pudding," says Count Rumford in his "Essay on Food," "which was allowed by competent judges who tasted it to be as good as they had ever eaten, was composed and prepared in the following manner:—Three pounds of Indian meal (from which the bran had been separated by sifting it in a common hair sieve) were put into a large bowl, and five pints of boiling water were put to it, and the whole well stirred together; three-quarters of a pound of molasses and one ounce of salt were then added to it, and these being well mixed, by stirring them with the other ingredients, the pudding v^as poured into a fit bag, and the bag being tied up (an empty space being left in the bag in tying it, equal to about one-sixth of its contents, for giving room to the pudding to swell), this pudding was put into a kettle of boiling water, and was boiled six hours without intermission; the loss of water in the kettle by evaporation during this time being frequently replaced with boiling water from another kettle. The pud- ding, upon being taken out of the bag, weighed ten pounds and one ounce; and it was found to be perfectly done, not having the smallest remains of that raw taste so £sagreeable to aU palates, and particularly to those who are not used to it, which always predominates in dishes prepared of Indian meal when they are not sufficiently cooked." Rumfustian.—Whisk up the yolks of six eggs until they are well frothed, and put thorn into a quart of strong beer, to wliich is added a pint of gin; boil up a bottle of sherry in a