( 926 ) STO STOi Stock, x^ame.—Take the remainB of roast game of any kind, and break tlu'in up into small pieces. Butter a saueeiiaii, and lino tlio bottom of it with thin slices of lijaa liam. I'laee tlio pieces of f^amo upon this, ahnoat cover them with stock made from bones or, failing' this, witli wattir, and boil the liquor qui(;kly over a brisk lire till it is reduced to glaze. Draw it back a littlis and lot it colour; tlien add as much additional stock as it will bear, together with carrots, turnips, onions, celery, cloves, and salt, as required. Let it sinnner gently until it is done enough, and strain it off for use. The remains of game will make excel- lent stock, smd it would be very extravagant to use game for this pui-pose without fii'st taking off the best of the moat. When, however, a bird is too old and tough to be dressed in the ordinary way, it may be placed in the stock- pot, but its flavour will he best brought out if it is partially roasted before being stewed. Stock, General.—Take one pound of shin of beef, cut it into pieces the size of a wal- nut, and put these into a dehcately clean stew- pan with two-pennyworth of bones broken up small and five pints of cold spring water. If there are trimmings of meat or poultry in the house they may be thrown into the pot, as also a little bacon-rind which has been first scalded and scraped. Bring the contents of the pan slowly to the boil, carefully remove the scum as it rises, and throw in a spoonful of cold water now and then to assist it in doing so. An onion with a clove stuck into it, a turnip, a carrot, two leeks, a few outer sticks of celery, a salt-spoonful of whole pepper, and a little salt may be added if hked. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer very gently. Keep the saucepan closely covered, excepting when it is necessary to take off the lid for the piirpose of skimming. Strain the soup into an earthenware pan, and remove the fat when it forms on the surface. Time to simmer the stock, four hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Suf- ficient for two quarts of stock. Stock made from Bones.—Take the bones of a leg of mutton or of a piece of beef weighing seven or eight pounds before cooking, or if these are not at hand, take two penny- worth of fresh bones. Break them up into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with three quarts of cold water. Bring the liquor gently to the boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently for five or six hours. Pour it into an earthenware jar, and the next day remove the fat from the top, and pour it back free from sediment. Put with it a largo carrot, a handful of fresh parsley, a large onion into which two or three cloves have been stuck, a few outer sticks of celerj% or about as much celery-seed as will he on a throfix'.nny-piece, a turnij), if young, a couple o* leeks, if thoy can be obtained, a lump of sugar, and a little salt and cayenne. Sim- mer the soup again, and if necessary add cold water, a little at a time, to keep up the quantity to two quarts. Simmer all gently toircthor .in hour and a half longer; strain :'ie liquor oil: again, and stir in with it tt good i-ja- spoonful of extract of moat. If it is necessary to (•hirify tlie Bt(jck, do not put in the extritct until the stock Jws been made clear. If expe- dition is desired, the vegetables and the bones may be boiled altogether. Time, five liours tlie first day, (jiie hour and a half the next. Suf- ficient for two quarts of stock. Stock made from Cow-heel.—Excel- lent stock for soup may be made by boiling a cow-heel and two pcjunda of shin of beef in water. The meat may he convertf.'d into mock potted head—a reUshing dish for breakfctst or supper. Cleanse a cow-heel, and put it into a stewpan with two pounds of shin of beef, not cut up, and three quarts of water. Add a large carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with thri > cloves, six peppercorns, six allspice, a bunch oi herbs, a blade of mace, and a slice of lemon- rind. Bring the liquor slowly to the boil, and simmer gently two hours. If the meat is to be made into brawn, take it out at this point, and let the heel simmer alone imtil the stock is sufficiently strong. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, and when the stock is done enough, pour it into an earthenware pan, and use as required. To make the mock potted head, cut both the beef and the cow-heel into small pieces. Soak half a packet of gelatine in cold stock for twenty minutes; dissolve it in a pint of boihng stoclf, add the pieces of meat, and pour the whole into an oiled mould to remain until cold. Potted head made in this way may be garnished according to taste. One or two hard-boiled eggs, some slices of beet- root, and a little chopped parsley, if placed tastefully in the jelly at the bottom of the mould, win greatly improve its appearance. Time, five or six hours to boil the cow-heel. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two quarts of stock and one shape of brawn. Stock, Meat.—Meat from which stock has been made, if simmered gently tUl it is tender only, and not so long as to reduce it to rags, may be served as a stew, with part of the stock thickened for grsivy. Or good potted meat may be made of it {see Beef, Potted). Stock-pot.—The best stock-pots are those made of well-tinned iron or copper, as they are most easily cleaned, and in making stock clean- liness is of the utmost importance. Into the stock-pot should be thrown all the bones and trinimings of meat and poultry, either dressed or undressed. In an economiadly-conducted household nothing wiU be thi-own away until all the goodness has been extracted from it. Stock, Qtlickly made.—Take an onion, peel it, spUt it in halves, and stick t\vo cloves into it; put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of water, a bimch of fresh green parsley- leaves, a tea-spoonful of gelatine, and a httle salt and cayenne. A stick or two of celen- or a few celery-seeds, or a very small pinch of dnod tarragon may be added, if they are at hand, as they will greatly assist the flavour of the stock. Boil the liquor till the gelatine is dissolved, strain it into a bowl, and press the onion and parsley so as to get as much of the goodnof^s out of them as possible. If the gelatine was good, the slock will be briglit uud claax. Stjr