(831 ) SAU SAIT Roast Meat KOUEKT KOKEKT, Uue's way lioOT GllAVY IvOSE Roux Koux, Brow Houx, White lioYAx, FOK Fish koyal, foh tukkeys Russian Sago Salad Salmi Salmon, Sauces pgr Salsify Shallot Shakp Shikaree Shrimp Sicilian SoumsE Sorrel Spanish Spinach Store Superior SUPRKME Sweet Tarragon Tartar Thickening for Tomato Truffle Turtle Universal Vanilla Custard Vegetable Marrow Veloute Venison Victoria Vinegar "White Wine Worcester Yankee Sauces and Gravies, Dr. KitcMner on.—It is of as much importance that the cook should know how to make a boat of good gravy for her poultry, &c., as that it should be sent up of proper complexion and nicely frothed. A great deal of the elegance of cookery depends upon the accompaniments to each dish being appropriate and well adapted to it. The most homely fare may be made relishing, and the most excellent and independent improved by a well-made sauce—as the most perfect picture may by being well varnished. " It is the duty of a good sauce," says the editor of the Almanack des Gourmajids, "to insinuate itself all round and about the maxillary glands, and imperceptibly awaken into activity each ramification of the organs of taste; if not sufficiently savoury, it cannot produce this effect, and if too piquant, it will paralyse, instead of exciting, those delicious titillations of tongue and vibrations of palate that only the most accomplished philosophers of the mouth can produce on the highly-educated palates of thrice happy grands gourmands." Let your sauces each display a decided character; send up your plain sauces (oyster, lobster, &c.) as pure as possible; they should only taste of the materials from which they take their name. The imagination of most cooks is so incessantly on the hunt for a relish, that they seem to think they cannot make sauce sufficiently savoury without putting into it ever}i,hing that ever was eaten ; and supposing every addition must be an improvement, they frequently overpower the natural flavour of their plain sauces by overloading them with salt and spices, &c. But remember, these will be deteriorated by any addition, save only just salt enough to awaken the palate. The lover of "piquance" and compound flavours may have recourse to " the magazine of taste." On the contrary, of compound sauces, the ingre- dients should be so nicely proiwrtioncd that no one be predominant; so that, from the equal union of the combined flavours, such a fine mellow mixture may bn produced whose very novelty cannot fail of being ucceptabio to the persevering gourmand, if it has not pretcnsiont to a permanent place at his table. An, ingenious cook will form as endless a variety of these compositions as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his colours; no part of her business offers so fair and frequent an opportunity to display her abilities. Spices, herbs, &c., are often very absurdly and injudiciously jumbled together. Why have clove and allspice, or mace and nutmeg in the same sauce ?—or marjoram, thyme, and savoury—or onions, leeks, shallots, and garlic ? One will very wT3ll supply the place of the other, and the frugal cook may save something considerable by attending to this, to the advantage of her employers, and her own time and trouble. You might as well, to make soup, order one quart of water from the Thames, another from the New River, a third from Hampstead, and a fourth from Chelsea, with a certain portion of spring and rain- water. To become a perfect mistress of the art of cleverly extracting and combining flavours, besides the gift of a good taste, requires aU the experience and skill of the most accomplished professor, and especially an intimate acquaint- ance with the palate for which she is working. Send your sauces to table as hot as possible. Nothing can be more unsightly than the surface of a sauce in a frozen state, or garnished with grease on the top. The best way to get rid of this is to pass it through a tamis or napkin previously soaked in cold water; the coldiiess of the napkin will coagulate the fat, and only suffer the pure gravy to pass through ; if any particles of fat remain take them off by apply- ing filtering paper as blotting paper is applied to writing. Let your sauces boil up after you put in wine, anchovy, or thickening, that their flavours may be well blended with the other ingredients; and keep in mind that the chej d'ceuvre of cookery is to entertain the mouth without offending the stomach. The cook's judgment must direct her to lessen or increase either of the ingredients according to the taste of those she works for, and will always be on the alert to ascertain what are the favourite accompaniments desired with each dish. When you open a bottle of ketchup, essence of anchovy, &c., throw away the old cork, and stop it closely with a new cork that wiU fit it very tight. Economy in corks is extremely unwise; in order to save a mere trifle in the price of the cork, you run the risk of losing the valuable article it is intended to preserve. It is a vulgar error that a bottle must be well stopped when the cork is forced down even with the mouth of it; it is rather a sign that the cork is too small, and it should be re-drawTi and a larger one put in. Sauces, To Colour.—When spinach- leaves for green colouring cannot be had, take a handful of young parslev-lca^'es stripped from tlie stalks. Wash and dry them, and pound them in a mortar. Put the pulp upon a reversed sieve, and press the juice through it with a wooden spoon. Put the juice kito a small jar, set this in a pan of boiling wafer, iiiid let it simmer gently for three or lour