WIN ( 1139 ) that the wine has received an addition of dis- tilled spirit, or been fortified. Wines of deli- cate flavour will not bear fortifying, the alcohol added being usually derived from the fermenta- tion of artifically-prepared grape sugar, and con- taining the coarsely-flavoured alcohol known as fusil oil. A fortified wine may contain a good deal of sugar, for the addition of spirit to a fermenting liquid checks, more or less com- pletely, the further change of the sugar. " Wines under 26° of proof spirit pay on im- portation a duty of Is. a gallon; those over 26° and under 42° pay 28. 6d. Large and increas- ing quantities of natural wines now come into this country. Even of Spanish wines so im- ported about one-half are of natural strength, while the average of all Spanish wines does not show much over 28 per cent, of proof-spirit— rather less than 14 per cent, of absolute alcohol. " The following table shows the quantities of alcohol, of fixed acids—calculated as tartaric acid—of acetic acid, of sugar, of ethers, and of mineral matter or ash, contained in fair ave- rage samples of eight different kinds of wines commonly consiuned in Europe. One imperial pint of each of the following wines contains about:— Name of Wine. Hock . Claret . Champagne Burgundy Carlowitz Sherry . Madeira Port. . Alcohol (absolute). Tartaric andother Acids. Acetic Acid. Sugar. Ethers. Mineral Matter. oz. gr. gr. gr. oz. gr. gr. gr. 1 219 39 18 none 4 16 1 306 31 18 0 9 6 18 1 343 20 10 1 120 6 20 2 18 24 17 0 10 6 18 2 35 36 19 none 6 16 3 147 24 12 0 236 4 38 3 218 26 18 0 175 5 33 3 218 23 12 0 359 6 20 "The different wines made in this country from rhubarb stalks, gooseberries, currants, cowslips, elderberries, oranges, &c., contain oxalic, malic, and other acids, besides the tai-taric acid which is the chief acid of the grape. Now these acids are not thrown out of the liquor after fermentation, as is the case to a groat extent with the wine from grapes. Thus sugar has to be added to mask the acidity of these liqueurs, and in consequence they are not so wholesome as the natural imported wines. But it must not be supposed that grapes are entirely free from all acids save tartaric, or that the analyses as above given re- present every constituent of the wines we have included in the table. _ " The ethers of wines previously alluded to include a number of compounds not yet com- pletely analysed or understood. Some of them, however, have been examined pretty fully, and even exactly imitated by chemical means! CEnanthate, butyrate, and acetate of ethyl are the names given to some of the best known of these ethers. These ethers enter into the com- position of the artificial "oil of cognac" and various flavouring essences." Wines, Bottling of.—Bottling can never bo looked on as an unimportant matter, seeing tlial upon the process depend in a great moasuro many of the finest qualities of different wines. As a general rule, fine and delicate wines never attain to their full perfection till they have been some time in bottle. There are many conditions essential to a satisfactory performance of the operation, such as the state of the wine, the atmosphere, and the materials employed in the process. The state of the wine should be such as would prevent any further advantages accruing from its retention in the wood. This point varies much even in the same wine—that is, in •wine made from the same plants grown upon the same ground, but of different crops (because the grapes of one year's crops may be more matured than those of another), and even in the same crop, when the wine has been placed in different utensils and subjected to slight changes of temperature. To ascertain the point, the palate of a skilled " taster " is usually the surest guide. Wine should never be bottled till it is still, clear, and translucent. The least negli- gence in these respects may seriously com- promise its condition after bottling. From what has just been said, it will be seen that it is impossible to fijs a determinate date at which particular wines ought to be bottled. In any case, it should not be delayed until the wine begins to deteriorate, nor hurried on before it has acquired a suitable maturity. The atmospheric conditions most favourable to the process of bottling are those in which the wine is most tranquil. Autumn and winter, up to the end of March, when the weather is still cold—neither damp, overbright, nor thundery —are the best times, for the reasons which render these seasons most suitable to " racking." As regards material, great circumspection should be observed in the choice of bottles and of the corks to be used with them. However good the bottles themselves may be, it is in- dispensable that they should be washed, inside and out, with scrupulous care, so that they may be free from the least spot or stain of any foreign substance, and from suspicion of impart- ing even the slightest colour or taste to the water in which they are washed. The practice of using leaden smaU-shot in washing bottles, to detach the harder portions of fur and crust, is highly prejudicial, and should be forbidden in every case. The shot-corns often get wedged between the sides of the bottle and its convex bottom so firmly as to defy aU efforts to dis- J^dge them. Coming in contact with the wine, they dissolve more or less completely, and com- municate to the latter poisonous properties, due not only to the formation of salts of lead, but to the arsemc which enters into the composition ot smaU shot. For cleansing purposes, there- ±ore, metalUc chains with small joints are greatly to be preferred, though, after all, wash- ing with suitable brushes is the best method, and various smaU machines exist which execute the operation verj^ satisfactorUy. The bottles should be allowed to drain thoroughly before Z"^^ P"^* wh'ch purpose they should be made to stand bottom upwards for a sufficient time, the necks being inserted in orifices placed for the pizrpose on tables or shelves. Corks should invariably be used as stoppers. It 18 very essential that they should be of good quality, fine, even in texture, and