VEG- VEG- ( 1075 ) it is ripe—a still more indispensable article on American dinner-tables. Green Lima beans are anotlier preserved vegetable sent from America, retailed in one pound tins at about a shilling, and very excellent tbey are, but, like tbe ' green corn,' seldom experimented upon by the English public, being chiefly used by American residents in this country. No small success has attended the preservation in tins of fruit. The Americans send us yearly hundreds and thousands of tons of the various products of their gardens and orchards. In many parts of America—California, for instance, which seems hkely to become 'the garden of the world'— fruit is a mere drug in the market, the supply of peaches, apricots, and pine-apples, to say nothing of what we consider more common fruits, being almost unlimited. They are now seen in most of the shops which deal in such ai'ticles, and have obtained that degree of public favour to which their excellence and cheapness entitle them. The Australian colonies are also fast developing their powers of fruit production; and both the quality and cheapness of their preserves of various kinds which have found their way into our markets commend them to the public." Vegetables, Preserved, by Drying. —A convenient method of preparing desic- cated vegetables, as practised largely in some coimtries, consists in drying them for a short time, and then exposing them to a slow heat in ovens. When soaked for cooking, peas, roots, potatoes, beets, com, and other substances swell out and show very little change in their esculent properties. A modification of this process consists in placing the substances, after being sun-dried, in paper bags, which are pasted up at the mouth, and then covered vsdth sand, and heated till perfectly crisp, but not burned or materially altered in colour. Vegetables, Preserved, Fresh. — "The preservation of vegetables for future use," says Loudon, "is effected by destroying or rendei-ing dormant the principle of Ufe, and by warding off, as far as practicable, the progress of chemical decomposition. Hence the herbs, or roots, or fruits, of some vegetables are dried; others are placed beyond the reach of the active principles of vegetation, viz., heat and moisture; and some are in addition excluded from the air, or placed in very low temperatures. All these practices are merely imitations of what actually takes place in nature, from the withered grassy tussock to the hedgehog's winter store, and hence the origin of herb, seed, fruit, and root rooms and cellars Preserving heads or leaves of vegetables is effected in cellars or sheds of any temperature not lower than, nor much above, the freezing-point. Thus cabbages, endive, chicory, lettuce, &c., taken out of the ground with their main roots, in perfectly dry weather, at the end of the season, and laid in, or partially immersed in sand or dry earth, in a close shed, cellar, or ice-cold room, will keep through the winter, and be fit for use tiU spring, and often till the return of the season of their produce in the garden. The German gardeners are expert in this practice ; and more especially, in Russia, where the necessities being greater have caUed forth greater skill and attention." Vegetables, Spring (dressed in the German manner).—Take a handful of parsley, and the same of sorrel, lettuce, and chervil; pick and wash the vegetables, shred them finely, and put them into a saucepan with a pint and three-quarters of green peas. Pour over them as much good broth as will cover them, season with pepper and salt, and sim- mer gently for two hours. In a separate sauce- pan boil three-quarters of a pound of rice in water till tender. Stir the boiled vegetables into this, season with pepper and salt, add a slice of butter, and beat the mixture to a paste. Serve on bread. Time, two hours. Vegetables, Stew of.—Take two pounds of spinach; pick it, wash it in several waters to free it from grit, and mix with it a large hand- ful of parsley picked and chopped small, and two moderate-sized onions, also minced. Put the spinach, &c., into a stewpan, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, and add about half a pint of nicely-flavoured stock thickened with flour and butter. Cover the pan closely, and let its contents simmer gently tiU tender. Chop small, again heat it over the fire, and serve with broiled ham. Vegetables, To Make Tender.— When peas, French beans, and similar vege- tables are old, or when the water in which they are to be boiled is hard, a very small piece of soda may be thrown in with them, and this wiU serve to make them tender and of a good colour. If too much soda is put in, the taste of the vegetables will be entirely spoilt. Vegetarianism.—Under this name goes the doctrine, "That vegetable substances are the solids intended by nature for the sustenance of man ; and that it is wrong—against nature and against good morals—for men to make use of an animal diet." This doctrine has had many speculative persons for its supporters—Pytha- goras, Plato, Plutarch, for example, in ancient times; and Rousseau, Shelley, and Swedenborg, in modem. There is almost a concurrence of medical experience against vegetarianism, and in favour of the opinion that man, as regards all his powers and faculties, thrives best, and that— if a difference can be made out—he also Hves longest, upon a mixed diet. It has been found in making railways that differences between workmen in respect of bodily strength and energy were chiefly due to a difference of diet: that, for example, a beef-eating Englishman would almost do the work of three vegetable- fed Frenchmen, and that this difference of working power disappeared when the French- men took to eating beef. Upon the alleged beneficent moral influence of vegetable food, it may be observed that there is no proof whatever of its reality; moreover, that since the majority of manlcind live either almost or entirely upon vegetables, vegetables must bear a large share of the responsibility which mav fall upon diet for the evil tendencies of man; and that, in fact, the most cruel and the most debased of human races live entii-ely upon