RAS ( 70(5 ) BAB like aspuniyuri, iu most pulutublo whou diuwii young, and oiitun froah from tlio ground. Bare-bit, Welsh.—Brillut Savurin, tlu) famous Fnnuh (ruiiniut, gives tho following rocipo takou from tho papers of M. TroUct, bailiff in Moudon, in tho Canton of Berno: — " Take aa many ogga as you wish, according to tho number of guests, and weigh them; then take a pieeo of choose weighing a third of tho weight of tho eggs, and a slice of butter weighing a sixth; beat the eggs well up in a dtiueepan, after which put in tlie butter and cheese, tho latter either grated or cliopped up very small; place tho saucepan on a good lire, and stir it with a iiat spoon until tho mixture becomes sufficiently thick and soft; add a little salt and a large portion of pepper, and serve it up in a hot dish. Bring out the best wine, and let it go round freely, and wonders will be done." Bare-bit, Welsh (another way).—The following is a cheaper recipe than the above, and the result is in no way inferior :—Cut as much cheese as is necessary into small pieces; add a lump of butter and a little ale ; mix in a Siiucepan on a good fire until it is well amal- gamated ; add popper and salt and a little mustard ; pour out upon a square of toast on a hot dish. A fine glass of beer Avill go with this as pleasantly as Brillat Savarin's wine. Some people add a little beef gravy to the rare-bit when it is simmering in the saucepan, and just a dash of chopped garlic. Bashers, Gardeners'.—Take a saddle of mutton, and cut off the skin that is over the fat without stripping the fillet. Cut the saddle in two, and each of these two pieces into three or four ; braize them like mutton with soubise sauce; do not leave too much fat, and glaze them of a nice colour. The rashers may be served with haricot sauce, or endive or spinach. Baspberries.—The raspberry is a delicious fruit, extensively used in cookery and in the RASPBERRIES. manufacture of various cordials. Though very wholesome and refreshing, it is scarcely so Ijiyhly esteemed as either tlie strawberry or the red currant. There are two kinds of raspberries —the red and tho wliite. The wliite are the rarer of tlie two. Thia fruit is a native of (Jreat Britain, and is often met with iu woods, in low-lying aituationa. To moat tastes it is very grateful aa uatme preaents it, but by the addition of augar it is much improved; tho raspberry is, therefore, irmch (;ateeiried v/ht-.u used for jams and tarts and mn/ie into sweet- meats. " Th(! ancients hardly mention the rasjj- berry-tree, which they jjlaced on a level with the bramble. The Latins called it ' Bramble of Ida,' because it was common on tlutt moun- tain. There can be no doubt, however, tluit the Romans kruj w how to appreciate the rasp- berry-tree so much esteemed in our days." — Soyer. The fruit of the different varieties of raspberry is in season from the end of June or July till October or later. As it ripens it should be timely gathered for immediate use ; becauee when fully ripe it will not keep above two or three days before it moulds, or becomes maggoty and imtit to be used. Baspberries, Bottled (for Winter Tarts, Creams, or Ices).—Pick the raspberries carefully without bruising them, and look into each one to see that no Uttle insects are lurking in the heart of the fruit. Put the raspberries into clean dry wide-mouthed bottles, and cover them with syrup made by boiling till clear three pounds of sugar with a quart of water which has been whisked up with a tea-spoonful of the white of an egg. Cork the bottles down tightly, and tie the corks with string. Place them carefully in a large saucepan with cold water to reach up to their necks. Put the saucepan on the fire, and bring the water to the boiling point. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes, lift it down, and let the bottles remain imtouched till the water is cold. Examine the corks, and if necessary tie them down again, cover with wax, and store for use. In order to prevent the bottles cracking in the water, it wiU be a wise precaution to wrap a band of straw round each one. Probable cost of raspberries, 2d. to 6d. per pint. Baspberries, Bottled, without Boil- ing.—Choose freshlj'-gathered and perfectly dry raspberries. Pick and weigh them, and take their weight in finely-powdered white sugar. Bruise them slightly, and fill drj' wnde- necked bottles -svith layers of fruit and sugar in equal quantities. Cork the bottles imme- diately, and cover the corks with bladder which has been moistened with spirits of wine. Store in a very cool, airy situation, or the fruit may ferment. Baspberries, Compote of. — Pick a pint of freshly-gathered and perfectly sound raspberries, or if preferred take half a pint of raspberries and half a pint of red currants. Boil five ounces of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water for ten minutes, put in the picked fruit, and let it simmer gently for six minutes. Lift the raspberries out carefully, and put them into a glass dish. Let tho syrup boil a minute longer, and when it is cold pour it over the fruit. Serve as nn accompaniment to simple milk puddings of various kinds. Time, twenty