SPI ( 916 ) a few currants, and mix them in. Drop the batter into a frying-pan on boiling lard ; when the fritters rise, take them out, drain, and send to table. Spinacli, Green, for Colouring Soups, Sweet Dishes, &c.—Wash any quantity of spinach, and put it with the mois- ture stiU clinging to it into a moi-tar, and pound it to pulp. Press it through a sieve, or squeeze it in a cloth to obtain as much juice as possible from it. Pour the juice into a jar, and set this into a pan of water on the point of boiling, and let it simmer till the juice is set. Take it when thus finished, and laj' it on a sieve, to drain the water from it. Place it in a covered basin, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. If soup is to be coloured, mix a little greening with a little boiling stock, and add the remainder. If sweet dishes are in question, mix a little of the prepared juice with finely- powdered sugar, and add this to the ingredients. Time to poach the juice, three or four minutes. Spinacli, German Mode of Cook- ing.—" Spinach," says the compilerof " German National Cookery," " requires to lie in water a little while, and to be several times rinsed in fresh water. Put it into boiling water with salt; give it eight or ten minutes gentle boiling uncovered. If its earthy flavour is objected to, throw it into plenty of cold water when boiled enough, then drain, and press it dry; chop it fine. Make butter hot, throw it into some grated bread-crumbs, then add the spinach. Or make a thick butter-sauce, and stir the spinach into this to get thoroughly hot. Serve garnished with either cutlets, sausages, hai-d- boiled eggs sliced, and sippets of buttered toast, or poached eggs. If the f uU flavour of the spinach is liked, simply wash it well, clear it of the large stems, and drain it. Put a piece of butter in a saucepan, and when melted put in the spinach; cover, and as it shrinks put in more. Let it cook in its own juice. Sprinkle salt over as you put it in. Spinach in Consomme. — Take par- ticular care when the spinach is picked that no stalks or weeds are left amongst it. The least oversight may cause the spinach to be good for nothing, in spite of whatever trouble you may take in cooking it. It should be washed several times in a great quantity of water. Then boil some water in a vessel large enough for the spinach to float with ease. Put a great deal of salt that it may preserve its green colour, and press it down frequently with a wooden spoon that it may be done equally. When it has boiled a few times, try whether it can be squeezed easily between your two fingers; then, without loss of time, put it into a colander to drain the hot water. Next put it into a great quantity of cold water to keep it green. When it is quite cold make it into balls, and squeeze it well till quite dry. Then spread it on the table with your knife to ascertain that no im- proper substance is left among it. Chop it very line; put a good piece of butter into a stewpan, and lay the spinach over the butter. Let it dry over a gentle fire, and then dredge it with a spoouful of flour. Moisten with a few spoonfuls of consomme, and let it stew briskly that it may not tm-n yellow. Make it rich with a smaU bit of glaze. If you intend to send it up as an entree with a ham or a tongue, &c., you must mix a few spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and let it be well seasoned. Some people Uke nutmeg; in that case you may grate a httle into it. Spinach thus prepared may be used with a fricandeau, sweetbreads of veal, and breasts of veal or of mutton. Spinach, Lamb Cutlets and {see Lamb Cutlets and Spinach). Spinach Omelet.—Beat a large table- spoonful of flour smoothly with four table- spoonfuls of cold milk; add two ounces of but- ter melted, a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and the yolks of four well- beaten eggs. Wash thoroughly and afterwards shred finely a quarter of a pound of spinach, a quarter of a pound of beet, half an ounce of parsley, a quarter of an ounce of lemon-thyme, and a quarter of an ounce of leeks. Mix the chopped vegetables together, and stir them into the soup. Butter a pie-dish thickly just before the omelet is to be baked; whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, stir them into the preparation, turn it into a butter dish, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for three or four persons. Spinach, Ox Tail Stewed with {see Ox Tail Stewed with Green Peas or Spinach). Spinach, Plainly Dressed.—Pick the leaves from the stalks, and wash the spinach in several waters to free it from sand and grit. Put it into a large saucepan with as much water only as will keep it from burning ; add a small spoonful of salt, and turn it frequently tiU it is quite tender. Drain it on a colander, squeeze it dry, chop it small, and add pepper and salt. Put it when thus chopped again into the colander, place this over the fire upon a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of butter, and turn the vegetable about that the steam passing through the holes of the colander may dry the vegetable. When hot and quite dry, serve immediately. Sometimes fried sippets of bread are put round the spinach, or bread fried and cut into dice is sprinkled upon it. Time to boil the spinach, ten minutes or more, according to the age of the leaves. _ Probable cost, 3d. to 6d. per poimd. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Spinach Pudding,—Take six good table- spoonfuls of spinach when boiled, pressed, and chopped (or, it may be, spinach dressed the pre- vious day); add the same quantity of bread- crumbs soaked in milk and drained, a little salt, grated nutmeg, or mace, and four eggs beaten up; mix all well together; butter a pud- dmg-mould, and boil one hour and a half. Spmach pudding is eaten with melted butter or shrimp sauce. Spinach Pp^e of, with Butter.— 1 ick the stalks from three pounds of spinach, and wash it in two or three waters. Lift it out of the water with the fingers that the sand