sou ( 902 ) SOTT milk, oggB, &c. &c. Tho biisis of all soup is stock. Instructions in making this will bo found in its propor place, and it will, therefore, not bo considered here. The reader will also find most valuable hints for making stock md soups in tho ai-ticle on the Puincii-les of CooKEiiY. Directions for making various soups will be found under their various headings, novertholess it may bo found useful if a few rules of universal application are hero given as an assistance in tlioir manufacture. There are thi-eo kinds of soups—clear soup, thick soup, and piireos. A piu-eo is made by rubbing the ingredients of which it is composed tlirough a tamis or sieve. A thick soup is stock thickened by the addition of viu'ious thickening ingre- dients. These soups are best suited to the winter season. Clear soup is thin and bright, and adapted for use in the summer months. In making soup it is most important that every culinary article used should be perfectly clean. The inside of the covers of saucepans, the rims, and the handles, pai-ticularly require attention. The lid of the saucepan should never be re- moved over a smoky fire. Th« meat used should be freshly-killed, and should be as lean as it can be procui-ed; it should never be washed. The bones should be broken up into small pieces. Cold water should be put upon fresh meat and bones; boiling water (a small quantity at a time) upon meat or vegetables that have been fried or browned. As it is very important that no fatty particles should be left to float on the surface of the soup, this should be made, if possible, the day before it is wanted, so that the fat can be removed after it has gone cold. If the soup has been thickened with white or brown roux it should be simmered by the side of the fire imtil it has thrown up the fat which the liquor still contains. Soup should be sim- mered very softly till it is done enough. A large fii-e and quick boiling are the great enemies of good soup. In flavouring soup the | cook should be careful to add the seasoning ingredients in moderation and gradually, es- pecially such things as garlic, onions, shallots, spices, herbs, salt, and cayenne. An overdose of salt has spoilt many a dish of soup, while a deficiency thereof has again and again nullified the effect of the most delicate combination of flavoiirs. As a general rule, two ounces of salt will siifiice for a gallon of soup stewed with large quantities of vegetables; an ounce and a haU only will be needed if the vegetables are omitted, or if a small quantity only is used. It should be remembered that salt and all season- ings can be added when they cannot be taken out. For flavouring purposes, Aromatic Sea- soning of Herbs and Spices, and Herb-powder for Flavouring Soups, will be found of great use. Whatever ingredients are added to soup, whether farinaceous articles, such as rice, vermicelli, macaroni, &c., or vegetables, all shoidd bo partially boiled in plain water before they are put into the liquor. This will ensure their being perfectly clean and bright. The flavour of rich brown soups will bo brought out better if a small piece of sugar be added to it. This must not bo used for white soups. Cream or milk when put with soups should be boiled separately, strained, and added boiling. If, instead of cream, milk and the yolk of an egg aro used, tlie egg must on no account be boiled in the liquor. Either it must be mixed tlio- roughly with a little of the soup wliich lias cooled for a minute, then ]je stirred into the rest; or, bett(jr still, it must be put iut<j tlie soup-tureen, a spoonful of the soup mixed with the milk stin-ed into it, and tlie lest added gradually. If soups are to be kejjt ioi a day or two, they should be boil(;d uj) every day, or every other dfiy, according to the state of tho weather, put into freshly-scalded di'y earthen- ware pans, and kept in a cool place. A piece of gauze may be thrown over the pan to keep out dust and flies. Soup should never be kept in metal vessels, and it should jb atin-ed and well skiumied with a wooden spoon. It should always be served as hot as possible. Soup, Cheshire.—The following is a very old Cheshire recipe for a good and inexpensive soup. It dates back as far as the sixteenth century. Put a hock of beef into a gallon of cold water, simmer it gently for six hours, taking care that it is well skimmed. Put in some thyme, sweet marjoram, and celery, all tied in a bunch, as also a couple of onions cut fine. Skim off all the fat, and season with pepper and salt and a little ketchup. By omitting the above seasoning, this soup may be turned into all kinds of soups, by adding the vegetables to give the flavour required. Soup Flavouring, Onions for {sec Onions, Coloured, for Soup Flavouring). Soup for Children, Liebig's—This preparation, which is hardly entitled to the name of soup, as the word is generally under- stood in this coimtry, is made in the following manner:—Take one oimce (one large table- spoonful) of seconds flour, and mix it smoothly and carefully with ten ounces of cold skimmed milk until the whole is smooth; add seven and a half grains of bicarbonate of potash dissolved in a tea-spoonful of water (if sixty grains of the potash be dissolved in one ounce of water, one tea-spoonful must be used at a time), and then heat it gently till it reaches the boiling point, and keep it boiling for five minutes. Stir tho preparation well whilst it is being heated; add to the whole one ounce (one large dessert- spoonful) of malt flour (malt ground in a coffee- mill, and sieved) mixed with two ounces of water, and stir it well. Cover the pan, and let it stand for half an hour in water which is nearly boiling, so as to keep the soup waiin; then strain through a fine sieve, and bottle it. This quantity is enough for a diiy's supply for a child under two years of age. A quart of milk should be added to the soup. Soup, Macaroni, Grain Balls for.—■ Roll out some macaroni paste very thm, cut it into small sqiuircs tlry and stiff enough to be rubbed through a grater. Soup Tablets.—In the following recipe we have desciibed how to make the souji tablets which were so much used by the German amy during the Franco-German war. Take eleven parts by weight of good suet, melt it m an iron pan, and make it very hot, so as to bwonio bro^vn; add, while keeping tho fat stirred,