RAI ( 703 ) BAI ' Raisin Elder Wine .—Crush eight quarts of ripo elderberries in a tub or earthen pan, mix with them five pounds of good moist sugar, and let them lie for twonty-foui- hours. Pick thirty-six pounds of good Malaga raisins from their stalks, stone and cut them small, and pour on them nine gallons of boiling soft water, then stir them well, and leave the vessel closely covered till the day following. Boil the elder- berries and their juice half an hour, slcimming well until quite clear, and strain it on to the raisins, stirring the mixtui-e twenty minutes. In three days after this, strain the liquor well, put it into a ten-gallon cask upon the thin rinds of six lemons and two Seville oranges, and, lea\'ingthebung out, let it ferment; minding to keep the cask filled up as it works out. When it has ceased hissing, put in a quart of brandy, and stop it up for two months; then rack it off into a clean vessel, filter the dregs, and fill the cask again, adding six oimces of sugar-candy and an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little, water. Secure the bung well, and let it stand ten months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and in six months more commence using it. Raisin Pudding, Baked.—Shred finely six ounces of beef suet, ilix with this three- quarters of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, the rind of a fresh lemon cut very small, three- quarters of a pound of stoned raisins, and half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. Isiix the dry ingredients thoi-oughly, and stir in with them three eggs and as much milk as will make a thick batter. This wiU be about a quarter of a pint. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar over it, and it will be ready for serving. Time to bake, one hour and a quai-ter. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raisin Pudding, Boiled.—Shred half a pound of beef suet very finely. Mix with this four ounces of flour, two ounces of ground rice, a pinch of salt, four ounces of Demerara sugar, four ounces of stoned raisins, and the gi-ated rind of a small lemon. Mix the dry ingre- dients thoroughly, stii- in with them a quarter of a pint of milk which has been beaten up with one egg and the strained juice of a lemon. Pour the mixture into a plaiu, well-buttered mould, tie it closely down, plunge it into plenty of fast-boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Turn it out, sift powdered sugar thickly over it, and serve with pudding sauce. Tijne to boil, three hours. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raisin Pudding (economical).—Shred eight ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, a dessert-spoonful of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of baking powder, the eighth of a nutmeg grated, and ton ounces of stoned raisins. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, and stir in with them as much milk as will make a thick batter. Pour the preparation into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-hcated oven. Turn out the pudding, strew sugar over it, and serve. This pudding may be boiled as well as baked. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Raisin Wine.—March is the best time for making raisin wine. Take eight pounds of fine Smyrna raisins for every gallon of water that is to be used. Pick the large stalks only from the raisins. Put them into a perfectly sound sweet tub, pour the water over them, and press them well down. Cover the tub, and stir the mixture every day for four weeks. Strain the liquor, and squeeze the raisins as dry as possible. Put the wine into a cask, cover up the bung- hole to keep out the dust, and when the hissing sound ceases, bung the hole closely, and leave the wine untouched for twelve months. Draw it off into a clean cask, and filter the di-egs carefully through three or four folds of muslin. Bung it up again, and bottle it at the end of three years. If preferred, the wine may be bottled at the end of a twelvemonth, but it wiU be much improved by keeping. Those who prefer having a little brandy in the wine may put a bottle or more into the cask with the liquor. Good vinegar may be made from rai- sins which have been used for wine. Time, four weeks to stir the liquor before putting it into the cask. Raisin Wine (another way).—Take two hundredweight of raisins with all their stalks, put them into a large hogshead, and fill it up with water; let them steep a fortnight, stirring them every day ; then pour off the liquor, and press the raisins. Put both liquors together into a nice clean vessel that will just hold it, but remember it must be quite f uU; let it stand till it has done hissing or making the least noise, then stop it close, and let it stand six months. Peg it, and if you find it quite clear, rack it off into another vessel. Stop it again close, and let it stand three months longer; then bottle it, and when wanted for use rack it off into a decanter. Raisin Wine (another way). — A raisin wine possessing the fiavour of Fontaigne may be made in the following manner:—Take six pounds of raisins, boU them in six gallons of water, and when perfectly soft rub them through a colander to separate the stones. Add the pulp to the water in which the raisins have been boiled, pour this mixture upon twelve pounds of white sugar, and suffer it to ferment, with the addition of half a pint of yeast, ^^'^len the fermentation has nearly ceased, add to it a quarter of a peck of elder flowers contained in a bag, which should be suspended in the cask, and removed when the wine has acquired the desired flavour. When the wine has become clear, it may be drawn off into bottles. Raisin Wine (another way).—Upon twenty-four pounds of raisins picked from the stalks pour six gallons of boiling water, and add six pounds of sugar; let them macerate about fourteen nights, stirring every day; then pour off the liquor, squeeze out the raisins, and add three-quarters of a pound of finely- powdered super-tartrate of potash. Put the liquor into a cask, reser^^ng a sufficient quan- tity for filling up, and run off the wine when the fermentation has ceased.