( 734 ) BIG BIB ribiuula till tho coiitro ia romihod, uud fry thoin in plenty of boiling fat until thoy aro brightly browned. Drain thoni well, Bprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and Hervo very hot. Time to fry, eight to ten ininuteH. Sullicient for three or four persons. Bibs of Beef, To Carve {nee Beef, Ribs of. To Curve). Bibston Pippin.—The following is tho account of tho Rinston Pippin given in Lindloij's Guide :—" Skin pale yellow, russoty in the crown and round tho stalk, and mottled thinly with dull red on tho sunny side. Flesh palo yellow, firm, ci'isp. Juice saccharine, wjth a pungent, rich, and delicious aromatic flavour. A dessert apple from October to April, but it is generally in its greatest perfection when it has been gathered a month or six weeks. The Ribston pippin may be truly said to be one of the best, and certainly is one of the most popular dessert apples of the present day, as well known as the golden pippin and the non- pariel, and a greater number of trees of it are sold by nurserymen throughout England than of both those sorts put together. It was raised, according to traditionary accounts, from some pips which were brought from Rouen, about the year 1688, and sown in the garden at Ribston Hall, near Kjiaresborough, in the county of York." Ricardo Sauce for Game, &c.—Take any bones of cold roast game tiiat may be left from a previous dressing, chop tnem into small pieces, and dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them. Slice four moderate-sized onionb, and fry them in butter until they are lightly browned without being burnt; put them into a clean saucepan with the bones, half a pint of stock made from bones, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract of meat, a crust of toasted bread, a glassful of sherry, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the sauce over the fire tiU done enough, rub it through a fine sieve, heat it again, and serve. Time, a quarter of an hour to simmer the sauce. Sufficient for six or eight persons. "SiXQQ,—Rice forms a most useful and valu- able article of farinaceous food. It is light, nourishing, easy of digestion, and cheap- It has a tendency to constipate the bowels, there- fore it is freely given in cases of diarrhoea. In hot countries it is very largely used. Of the varieties of rice, Carolina is the best, largest, and most expensive. Patna rice ii almost as good; the grains are small, long, and white. Patna rice is chiefly used for curries. Madras rice is the cheapest. In this country rice is greatly undervalued as an article of food. In times of scarcity it has been used as a partial substitute for flour. Ground rice is used for puddings, blancmanges, cakes, and custards. Rice should be kept closely covered to keep in- sects from it. Bice (a la Bonne Femme).—Wash six oxmces of rice, throw it into plenty of faat-boiling water, and let it boil quickly for five minutes, then drain, and cool it. Cut four ounces of 'itreaky bacon into dice, and fry these in a little butter until the colour begins to turn. Throw m the rice, dredge pepper lightly over it, and pour upon it a pint and a half of good broth. Lot it boil till tender, stirring occasionally to prevent it burning. Have ready half a pint of hot tomato sauce. Pour out the rice, mix it thoroughly with the sauce, and pile the mixture lightly on a dish in the form of a pyramid. Placic fried sausages round the rice, and servi; very hot. Time to boil the rice, about half an hour. Probalile cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of tho sausages. Sufficient for five or six persons. KICE. Bice (a la Milanaise).—Boil half a pound of rice as for curry, and dry it. Frj' in hot fat over a slow fire till it begins to colour, and guard very carefully against its burning. Mix with it as much grated Parmesan as will flavour it thoroughly, and add cold-dressed fowl, fish, game, or shell-fish, torn into shreds with two forks. Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Rice a la Milanaise is sometimes fried in fat till it is lightly coloured, then simmered until tender in as much broth as will cover it, flavoured with Parmesan, and served instead of soup. Bice (a la Soeur).—Wash half a pound of rice in two or three waters. Place it in a large saucepan with plenty of salted water, and boil quickly till tender, and in order to ascertain when this point is reached try the grains occa- sionally with the finger and thumb. Pour off the water, and shake the saucepan over the fire till the rice is dry. Add a slice of fresh butter, and a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and when these ingredients are mixed with the rice put in also the white meat of a dried haddock torn into flakes with two forks, and the whites of three hard-boiled eggs chopped small. Pile this mixture on a hot dish, sprinkle over the top the yolks of the eggs, which have been rubbed through a wire sieve, and mixed -with an equal quantity of grated Parmesan, and put the dish in the oven for a few minut«s till the surface is lightly browned. Serve very hot. Time to boil the rice, ten minutes or more. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Bice (i la Turque).—No. 1. Wash half a pound of rice in two oi- three waters. Throw