TOW ( 987 ) TRA Bhallots, a bay-leaf, a small piece of mace, thi-ee cloves, and two ounces of gelatine. Stir it until the latter is dissolved, then lift it to the side of the hie, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs with a cupful of cold water and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Stir this into the liquor, and when it is very hot leave it to boil, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour without being touched. Lift it from the hre, and let it stand to settle for for ten minutes longer, then strain it through a jelly-bag till clear. Glaze the tongue, put it on its dish, and ornament with the jelly cut into cubes. Time to make the aspic, about an hour and a half. Probable cost, aspic. Is. 6d. Sufficient for one tongue. Tongues, Glazed.—The appearance of cold boiled tongue is very greatly improved by glazing. Glaze may either be made at home {see Glaze)—which is rather a difficult operation, as it may be so easily burnt—or it may bo bought in skins. In either case, take a small portion and put it into a jelly-pot, set this in a pan with a small quantity of boiling water, and keep the water boiling until the glaze is dissolved. Brush the tongue all over with the glaze, or, rather, lay the glaze lightly and equally on the tongue with a brush, and when one coat is dry, put on a second, and a third if necessary; but, genei'ally speaking, two coats will be found sufficient. Tongues, Pickle for {see Pickle for Beef, Pork, and Tongues). Tongues, Pickle for (another way).— Sec Pickle for Tongues. Tongues, Roots of.—As the roots of a tongue generally have an unsightly appearance, they may be tiimmed o£E, and either potted according to the directions given above, or made into pea soup as follows :—Put the trim- mings of the tongue into a ste\vpan with some roast beef bones or fresh bones, a quart of split peas (which have been soaked for six or eight hours in cold water), and three quarts of the liquor in which meat has been boiled. Failing this, use cold water. Add two or three onions, a sprig of thyme or marjoram, a bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, and five or six outer sticks of celery. Let the liquor boil, slcim carefully, and afterwards simmer gently until the peas are tender, stirring frequently to keep them from sticking to the bottom. Press the whole thro ugh a sieve, working it with the back of a wooden spoon, put it back into the pan, and let it boil again for about a quarter of an hour ; add salt and pepper, and it will be ready for serving. Care must bo taken that the peas are not put into salted liquor, or they will not easily be- come tender. Time to simmer the peas and the meat, about three hours, according to the quality of the peas. Probalale cost, exclusive of the roots, 3d. a quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Tongues, Sheep's.—Wash half a dozen sheep's tongues, put tlicm into a saucepan with as much boiling stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently until tender. Take off the skin, and trim the tongues in halves. Dish them in a circle, the roots in the centre, and pour into the centre mashed turnips, green peas, or a little onion sauce. Time to simmer, one liour or more. Probable cost, about 4d. each. Sufficient for five or six persons. Tongues, Sheep's, Salted.—Wash half a dozen sheep's tongues, and rub into each one a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, a table-spoonful of salt, and a few di-ops of strong vinegar or lemon-juice. Let them lie for five days. Put them into a saucepan with as much boiling water as will cover them. Let them boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer them gently until tender. Take off the skin, trim the root neatly, and split the tongues in halves. Arrange them in a circle round a dish, and garnish with parsley. Time to sim- mer, about an hour. Probable cost, 4d, each. Sufficient for a Jbreakfast or supper dish. Tottenham Mufans.—Beat three eggs till they are lightly frothed, and stir them into a quart of flour properly salted. Add as much lukewarm milk as wall make a thick batter, and stir in a table-spoonful of clarified butter and a quarter of a pint of good fresh yeast. Cover the bowl containing the dough, and let it re- main in a warm place tiU it is lightly risen. Take it out by spoonfuls, and drop it on a floured board. Let these remain for a quarter of an hour, then put them into muffin hoops and bake them. When one side is slightly brown turn them upon the other. Time to rise, about an hour. Probable cost, {i. each. Sufficient, one or two for each person. Toulouse Ragout (for garnishing large or small dishes).—Cook separately equal quan- tities of the following ingredients, as many as may be required for the dish it is intended to garnish:—Button mushrooms, cockscombs, sliced truffles, quenelles, and scalloi^s of sweet- bread. Pour over these as much nicely-flavoured white sauce as will cover them, and when they are quite hot the garnish will be ready for use. Time to simmer the whole together, thi-ee minutes. Town Pudding.—Shred six ounces of suet very finely, and free it from skin. Mix with it a small pinch of salt, six ounces of moist sugar, half a pound of chopped apples (weighed after being pared and cored), half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and half a tea- spoonful of finely-cut lemon-rind. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and press them very tightly into a buttered basin Avhich they will (luite flu. Tie a floured cloth over the pud- ding, and boil it four hours. It will not require any moisture. Turn it out carefully, and send sweet sauce or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil, four hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Transparent Dessert Cakes.—Take a large cake (almost any kind will do), cut it into slices about the third of an inch thick, and stamp these into any fancy shapes, such as diamonds, squares, hearts, stars, rounds, &c. Spread a little good jam over them, having previously hollowed the surface a little to keep the jam from running over the sides. Boil half a pound of refined loaf sugar with half a pint of water to the second degree. When this