( 685 ) BAB BAB gravy with a little brown thickening; and send it to" table in a tureen. Time to broil the rabbit, ten minutes. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for two or three persons. Babbit Cake (a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish).—Take the white meat from two young rabbits. Put the bones into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, add an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt, and let these ingredients stew gently until the gi-avy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain, thicken ^vith a little flour and butter, stir one or two spoonfuls of cream into the gravy, and let it boil until it is smooth and of the consistency of custard. Take the weight of the meat in fat bacon, cut this into small pieces, and melt these in a saucepan over a gentle fire. In two or three minutes put the pieces of rabbit into the pan with them, accompanied by a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a' little pepper, and stir all with a wooden spoon until the meat is sufiiciently dressed. Turn the contents Of the saucepan into a mortar with half the quan- tity of panada (sec Panada), pound all together to a smooth paste, and rub this through a hair sieve. Moisten the forcemeat with a small quantity of the sauce made from the bones, and bind it together with the yolks of two or three eggs. Taste the forcemeat, to ascertain whether or not it is pleasantly flavoured, and, if further seasoning is required, pound the mixture again after it is added. A few mushrooms or trufiles cut small may be added if liked. Butter two round moulds of different sizes, and press the forcemeat into these. Cover them, put them into a large pan containing boiling water three or four inches deep, and keep this boiling imtil the forcemeat is sufficiently cooked. Let it get cold. "When wanted, turn the larger cake upon a dish, put the smaller cake on the top of it, and place a ring of clear aspic jelly on the top of aU. Garnish the dish with aspic jelly cut into dice, and, if liked, place a border of rice round the cake. When prettily ornamented it is ready for serving. Time to boil the cakes, half an hour-to an hour and a quarter, ac- cording to size. Probable cost of rabbits, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Babbit, Cold, To Dress.—Joint the meat, boat up an egg or two with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, some parsley minced fine, and some bread-crumbs; dip the meat into the batter, sprinkle with crumbs, have ready some sweet beef-dripping hot in a pan, and fry the meat to a light brown ; thicken a little gravy with flour, put a large spoonful of ketchup to it, ky the fry in a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, not over it, and serve hot; garnish with lumon and toast. Babbit, Croquettes of.—Pick the meat from the remains of roast rabbit, and free it frorn skin and sinew. Mince finely, adding to it a third of its weight in lean ham, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the mixture into a stowpan wiili a slice of fresh butter and one or two table-spoonfuls of thick cream or white sauce, and stir over a gentle fire' for five or sii minute's. Tast^e if it be nicely seasoned, and spread it on a dish to-' cool. If liked',' one or two mushrooms or titiflifes can be added t6 the fofeemdirt. Divide the pre-" paration into portions of an equal size, mouiyf-' these into the shape of corks or balls, bruSh'-'- over with oil, roll them in egg and bread-^-' crumbs, and fry in hot fat till they aro crisp'- and lightly browned. Drain them, sprinkliJ'* a little salt over them, pile them on a napkinj" and garnish with parsley. If liked, tomatO'- or piquant sauce can bo sent to table in 'a>' tureen. Time to fry, five to seven minutes. Babbit, Croquettes of (M. Ude's way). Cut the meat of young roasted rabbits into dice, ■ which throw in some bechamel boiled down, add- • ing a little glaze of game. Let this cool, then roll it into whatever shape you please, either into balls, or into the shape of a cork or pear. Fry the croquettes, and send up as other cro- quettes ; garnish with fried parsley in the centre of the dish. It is necessary to obser\-e respect- ing croquettes, or any other ai-ticles made use- of in cookery, that the less you handle: thent»; the better. Put the preparation of the • cro- . quettes in a flat long dish; level it with tho., knife till you have it the thickness required f'; mark with the knife the number of croquettest-" you intend to make. Then take them off the dish, roll them in your hand as little as possible, put them in the cnimbs of bread, and roll the magain in the omelet (eggs beat with a ■ little salt), and make them of equal sizes in a cover of a stewpan till such time as you wish to fry them, and serve very hot. Babbit, Curried.—Take two fresh young rabbits and half a pound of streaky baconi' Giit the bacon into small squares, and divide the rabbit into i^ieces convenient for serving. Fry the bacon in two ounces of butter. As the pieces of bacon brown take them out and lay them on a separate dish; put iii the jpieced ' of rabbit, brown them also, aild Ifft them out:^' then fry in the fat three or four sliced onions ' and two sour apples finely minced. When'' these are soft, rub them patiently through ft ' sieve, and mix the pulp very smoothly -svith a dessert-spoonful of curry paste, a dessert- spoonful of curry powder, half a tea-spoonful of flour, and a pint of stock, or, failing this, a pint of water and half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat. Put the gravy into a stewpan with the rabbit and ba:cori, and let all simmer very gently together until the rabbit is sufficiently cobked, which it will be when the flesh leaves the bone easily. Pile the rabbit' on a dieh, pour the gravy over, and serve with rice boiled for curry on a separate dish. The flavour of this dish, which is a common one' and a general favourite, may bfe varied in many ways. A little celerj' or a few mushrooms may- be simmered with the gra^^^, or a clove of garHc may be added when the flavouring is liked, or a little fresh cocoa-nut maybe rasped and stewed with it, or a cupful of milk or cream may be added to the sauce. If the apph^s aro not at"^ hand the juice of a lemon may be substituted' for them. Time to stew the rabbit in the curry sauca, two hours. Probable cost, 2s 8d buftcient for four or five persons.