( 900 ) SOU sou caro not to lot them bo too tliick; if thoy uro too thick you canuot dish thoiii w(!ll. Soubise Sauce, Mutton Cutlets with (another aud a bultor way).—Cut tho mutton chops a littlo thicker than when you wiah to broU them. Faro them nicely, aud put them into a stewpiin, where they inay all lie tlat. Put an onion or two, a few can-ota, a little salt, a bundle of parsley and ^reon onions seasoned, four or hvo spoonfuls of good consomme, aud sweat tho wholo till it is entirely done. Then take out the roots, put in a little glaze, and reduce over a large lire. When entirely boiled down to a glaze, fciko them olf the tire for a few minutes, let the cutlets settle in tho glaze, take out the trimmings and vegetables, turn over the cutlets in the glaze, and take out the grease or fat, lay them on a cover to drain the fat, and serve up before they can get dry. This method is preferable to the other. You must not in either case lai'd your chops with bacon. These cutlets may be served up with all sorts of puree of vegetables.— Soubise Sauce, Onion Onion Soubise Sauce). Souffle.—Recipes for the following souffles will be found under theii- respective head- ings:— Apple Apples in Rice Apricot Arrowroot Cheese Fondue Corn-flour Souffle Pudding Fruit Gooseberry Ground Rice Lemon Macaroon Omelet Potato Potato-Flouk Rice Ginger Souffle Pudding Rice, Ground. Souffld, Bread.—Take some milk, and boil it with a little cream, giving the prepara- tion any taste you please. Scoop out carefully the soft part of two or three rolls, rub the bread through a sieve, soak in the flavoured milk, and proceed as for potato souffle {see Souffle, Potato, au Citron, and Souffle, Orange-flower). Souffle, Carrot. —Make a thick puree of can-ots, but instead of broth use water, in which put a little sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter; let all this boil till very thick, then add the yolks of four eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send up, beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with tho rest, and put into the oven for a proper time in the vessel which you wish to use. This souffle is not in great favour, but it is good. Souffld, Coffee.—Melt two ounces of flour in a stowpan, then add gradually and mix in smoothly six ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, half a pint of strong coflEee, and half a pint of cream. When the mixture leaves the sides of the pan, cool, and add off the fire the yolks of six eggs and ten ounces of sugar. "Whisk the whites of nine eggs till 6rm, stir them hghtly but thoroughly into the preparation, and finish as directed in Souffles. Souffld Dish. —niufltrfltions representing an urnumuutal and a plain soullle dish arej^jven in connection with the article Apricot Souffle (which see). Scuffle, Omelet.—Bieak two eggs, put tlio wliites into one pan and tho yolks into anollier; rasp a littlo lemon po(il or orange- llowers, beat the yolks wi.il, add a little sugar and Bait, aud next beat the wliitcs well to snow, and uiix them with the yolks lightly. Then put a lump of butter into an omelet-ijan on the lire ; when tho butter is meltfd, pour th(! omelet into the pan; hold it over a slow lire tor two minutes, or until tlie underside is set, then put the omelet-pan into a very liot oven for about three minutes. When it is firin in the centre and lightly coloured it is sufficiently cooked. If left in the oven too long it will be tough and leathery. To this you may give whatever flavour you think proper, but the plainer the better when served very hot and very high ; you may add to it some a])ricot jam. Loo&en the edges of the omelet with a knife, turn it upside down on a hot dish, put a little jam made hot on it, fold it quickly half over, sift white sugar thickly on it, and serve imme- diately. Souffle, Orange-flower.—Dilute a little flour with half cream and half milk; set this on the fire to boil; when the flour is done, put a little salt, a little sugar, and a small quantity of pounded orange-flowers; mix well, and then add a good bit of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and mix the whole well. Next beat the six whites and mix them with the rest; then bake the souffle in the usual way, and when it is baked enough, glaze it, and send it up. Souffle, Potato.—This dish has the double advantage of being excellent and economical. Take as many large potatoes as you expect guests for dinner. As the potatoes are to look well when cut, wash them well, and select the best shaped ; put them into the oven, and when done, cut them in half, so that the halves will stand, scoop out the inside with a spoon, and put it in a stewpan with two or three spoonfuls of double cream, a small bit of butter, a little salt, some sugar, a little lemon-peel rasped on sugar, three yolks of eggs, adding off the fire four frothed whites. Put this mixture into the hollow potatoes, placing them in rather a hot oven. The taste may sometimes be varied with lemon, orange-flower water, &c. This is a pretty dish. Apple souffle may be prepared in the same way, excepting that the apples must not be baked previously to being filled wjith the ingredients, but merely' cored and the interior scooped out, as above directed. Souffle, Potato (au Citron).—Bake a dozen potatoes in the oven ; when they are well done, open them, scoop out the most floury part, and mix it with half a pint of cream that has boiled and in which you have infused the peel of a lemon; to this add a little sugar, a large bit of butter, and a little sjilt-the taste of the sugar, however, must predominate: yet observe that the less sugar you use the lighter tlie souffles will bo. Now break six eggs, throw the yolks of four only into the potatoes, beat the six whit(;s, which pour gently with Uie