HIC RIC ( 740 ) ho by tho following process.—Take enough rice- flour and put it in the kneading trough ; at the same time boil a due proportion of water in a eauldronand throw in a small quantity of ground vice, which must be boiled till the decoction forms a thick viscous substance, wliich is to be poured upon the flour, and tho mass is to be kneaded with a mixture of salt and yeast. Tho dough is then covered with a warm cloth and left to rise. As the foriiumtation proceeds, the dough, which at first was firm, becomes almost fluid, and seems totally incapable of being moulded by the hand. To prevent the inconvenience and loss which would onsuo from its spreading, a tin box is prepared with a handle long enough to reach the end of the oven; a little water is poured into it, and it is then filled with dough, over which are laid some cabbage-leaves and a covering of paper. The box is deposited for a short time in tho heated oven, ana then sud- denly reversed, so that the dough retains its place in the mould, and is converted into a loaf of the same form. The bread is of a fine yellow coloiir, as if it had eggs in it, and is very agreeable to the taste, but it must be eaten while fresh, as it loses much of its flavour on becoming stale. This bread is also useful to put into soups. B>iC8 Bread (another way).—Under the head of "The Rectory Recipe,'' Miss Acton, in her English Bread Book, gives the following, which she had received from " an admirable housekeeper," the wife of a country clergyman: " We have been for some time in the habit of using a portion of rice for our bread. We commenced this plan when flour was very dear, and we think the bread so much improved by the addition that now we seldom omit it. We generally bake two stone (that is to fjay, four gallons, or twenty-eight pounds) of flour; for this quantity we allow two pounds of rice. We first wash the rice, and then soak it for three or four hours in six pints of water. It is next turned, with the whole of the water, into a large tin dish with a cover (a Nottingham jar well tied down would be a good substitute for this), and put it into a tolerably hot oven for two hours, when it will be nicely swollen, and will have absorbed all the water. When it has cooled down sufficiently to be handled easily, we rub it into half the flour, in the same way that we should rub butter or lard into it for pastry, and proceed to make the bread. If we can procure good home-brewed yeast we prefer it to any other, and find a quarter of a pint sufficient for our baking; but we very fre- quently use baker's yeast, which we find we can depend on better than on the brewer's. It is a thin liquid, somewhat resembling beer, of which we are obliged to mix three-quarters of a pint with the dough. We add first to the flour and rice two small handfuls of salt, and then wet them up gradually with ten pints of warm water, reserving the yeast until they are toler- ably well moistened, when we pour it equally well over the mass, and beat it in well with the hand, and knead it about. This dough will be very lithe. We make it about four o'clock in the afternoon, and place it by the fire, or on the top of the oven, where it remains until nine in the evening, when three-quarters of a stone (a gallon and a half) more of flour is kneaded inta it, and it is left to rise until the morning, when tho remaining half-gallon of flour will fit it for the oven. It should bo put into large tins, and allowed to rise to their tops before it is set into tho oven. We divide it into ten loaves, which are baked for two hours. We consider that the rice renders the bread lighter, and prevents the crust of it from becoming hiird, and it materially increases the weight. The four gallons of flour, two pounds of rice, and sixteen gallons of water, produce forty-tvco pounds of excellent bread. " To improve the yeast and ensure its being good, I would recommend that three or four well-boiled potatoes should be smoothly mashed and mixed with as much hot water as will bring them to the consistence of batter, and that a small plateful of warm flour and the yeatst should be gradually added and well beaten to them. This done, the mixture must be plac(;d before the fire, and in two hours, or less, the whole bowl will be in a state of fermentation. Then is the time to lay the bread with it. It is a little additional trouble, but is a certain improvement also. Servants, however, will not often take all this trouble, and mistresses cannot always attend to such matters them- selves. " To give the essence, then, of this recipe: Two poimds of rice soaked in three quarts of water, and afterwards swollen in it for two hours in a moderately hot oven; to be cooled down a little, then worked into a stone (two gallons) of flour; two small handfuls of salt; a quarter of a pint of j'east of home-brewed beer (or three-quarters of a pint of baker's yeast), and five quarts of warm water to be added to them, and well mixed into a little dough. To stand near tho fire, or on the top of the stove oven, from foiir o'clock in the afternoon till nine in the evening; a gallon and a half more of flour worked into it, left iintil the morning; the remaining half-gallon of flour used in kneading and making it ready for the oven. This dough is di%aded into ten loaves, put into large square tins, left until it has risen to their tops, put immediately into a well-heated oven, and baked for two hours. The product of tliis recipe—forty-two pounds of bread. Rice Bread (another way).—^Wash a pound and a half of rice in plenty of water till it is soft. Drain it, mash it well or rub it through a sieve, and mix it whilst still warm with seven pounds of flour. Put the flour into a bowl, sprinkle an ounce of salt round it and make a hole in the centre. Mix four table-spoonfuls of yeast with three-quarters of a pint of milk and water a little more than new milk warm. Pour three-quarters of a pint of milk and water of the same warmth into the bottom of the hole, stir into this, gradually, as much of the flour as will make a thin batter, add the yeast, stir all together, and sprinkle a little flour over the top. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and let it stand for an hour and a half, or until the yeast rises in bubbles. Knead it up well till the dough ceases to stick to the fingers, and let