HAS ( 709 ) BAS sugar, a tablo-spoonful of grated bread-crumbs, two or three drops of almond flavouring, iind the yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixtuio thoroughly, then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth. Lino a tartlet-tin an inch deep with good pastry, cover this -with the raspberries, pour the syrup over them, and spread the mixture on the top. Bake in a brisk oven. "When the pastry is done enough, the cake is ready. Time to bake, half an hour to three-quarters of an houi'. Probable cost, about Is. 4d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Raspberry Cream.—Pick one pint of raspberries. Bruise them well, and put them into a saucepan with three table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Let them boil quickly till the juice flows freely, and strain it off for use. If fresh fruit cannot be had, dissolve as much raspberry jelly as will make a third of a pint, or mix half a pound of raspberry jam with two table-spoonfuls of water, and strain oH the juice. Soak an ounce of gelatine for an hour, and stir it over the fire with three-quarters of a pint of milk till it is dissolved. When this is cool add the raspberry juice, two table- spoonfuls of brandy, and a little sugar if neces- sary. Whip half a pint of cream, add gelatine and juice, and pour into a mould which has been soaked in cold water, and put in a cool place till it is set. Turn it out carefully just before serving, or, if preferred, serve it in glasses. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the isinglass in the milk. Probable cost, 4s. Raspberry Cream (another way).—Take some ripe raspberries, bruise, and sprinkle a little sugar over them, let them lie for half an hour, and rub them through a hair sieve. Measure the pulp, and mix with it an equal quantity of thick cream and sugar to sweeten it sufficiently. Whip it well with a whisk, and as the froth forms place it on an inverted sieve to drain. When no more can be obtained, slice three or four sponge biscuits, lay them in a glass dish, and spread a little raspberry jam over them. Pour over them the remainder of the cream and the drippings from the whip, and just before the cream is to be served pile the froth on the top. If fresh fruit cannot be had, dissolved raspberry jelly or raspberry jam mixed ^vith a spoonful or two of water and rubbed through a sieve may be used in its place. Time, one hour to whip the cream. Raspberry Cream (another way). — Bruise the fruit as in the last recipe, sprinkle sugar over it, and in half an hour drain oflp the juice._ Measure it, and take the same quantity of thick cream; sweeten and flavour this, and whip it briskly with white of egg {.we Whipped Cream). As the whip forms lay it on a sieve to_ drain. When a sufficient quantity is ob- tained, boat the yolks of the eggs, mix them with the cream which drains from the whip, a nd stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens like custard. Lot it got cold, mix the raspberry juice with it, lay it in a glass dish, and pile the whip on the top. If fresh fruit cannot be had, this cream may be made, like the others, from preserved jelly or jam. The cream should be wlapped till all is us(!d. Raspberry Cream Ice.—Mix a pound of fresh ripe raspberries with the juice of a lemon, half a pound of powdered sugar, and a pint and a half of thick cream, or, if pre- ferred, a pint of cream and half a pint of milk. Beat the mixtui'e in a basin, rub it through a sieve, freeze in the usual way, and leave it in the ice-pail till it is wanted. If more con- venient, raspberry jam or raspberry jelly may be used instead of the fresh fruit, and when this is done very little sugar will be required. A still more agreeable and refreshing ice-cream may be made with two portions of red currants mixed with one portion of raspberries instead of raspberries alone. Raspberry Creams without Milk or Cream.—Dissolve two ounces of raspbeny jelly, stir into this an equal aveight of finely- powdered and sifted sugai-, and add the well- whisked whites of two eggs. Beat the mixtvu-e till it is very thick, and serve in custard glasses. Time, about one hour. Probable cost, 6d. for this quantity. Sufficient for two ghieses. Raspberry Custard. — Bmise lightly some fieshly-gathered ripe rasjibei-nes, sprinkle a little sugar over them, and heat them gently to draw out the juice. Pom- the juice off, and vdth. a pint of it mix very gradually the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Stir the custard over a gentle fire for a few minutes, pour it out, and ■when it is cool mix with it a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice and a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Serve in glasses. Time, six or seven minutes to heat the custard. Probable cost, 2s. per pint. Sufficient for four or five glassfuls. Raspberry Drops.—Bruise one pound of ripe raspberries, and strain the juice through a sieve. Dissolve a pound of loai sugar with a little water, add the raspberry juice, and boil the syrup to candy height. Drop it at once as evenly and regularly as possible upon paper rubbed over with butter, or upon oiled plates, and dry the drops in a warm place. When hard, take them off with the point of a knife. Raspberry Flummery.—Soak an ounce of isinglass in cold water for an hour. Put a pound of raspberry jam, or, better still, a pound of fresh raspberries, into a preserving-pan with half a pint of white-wine vinegar. Stir the mixtm-e constantly till it boils, let it simmer a few minutes, and rub it through a sieve. Boil tbe isinglass until it is dissolved, mix v^dth it the raspberry pulp and as much sugar as will sweeten it sufficiently. Boil the mixture once more, and pass it through muslin into a mould which has been weU soaked in cold water. Put it in a cold place, and when it is set turn it out carefully. If liked, gelatine may be used in- stead of isinglass. Time, five minutes to boil the fruit with the vinegar. Raspberry Fool.—Put a pint of rasp- berries into ?i saucepan with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and let them stew till tender. Rub them through a sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, and mix with the pulp as much cream or milk as will make it of the consistency of custard. Sen^e cold. When cream is not to