PUN ( 671 ) PUN Punch Drops.—Rub a Icu-ge lump of sugar upon the rind of one or two oranges to obtain the flavour, then crush it, and add inore sugitr to make up half a pound. Put this into a sugar boiler, and mix it to a stiif paste, with a small wine-glassful of rum and a tablo-spoonful of lemon-juice, and stir over a gentle fire until it hoUs. Let it fall in drops, the size of a sixpence, upon a slightly ojled baking-sheet. When cold, they can be easily removed with the point of a knife, and should be put on a sieve in a warm place to dry. Punch, English.—Rub the yellow rind of a lemon vnth lump sugar. Put the sugar into the punch-b(«vl, squeeze the lemon-juice to it, add the spirits—^rum and brandy—in such pro- portions as are preferred. Incorporate the spu-its thoroughly with the sugar and lemon before pouring in the boiling water, and keep stirring the whole while this is pouring. Some add madeira or sherry. Punch for Hot Weather.—Put a dozen smaU sprigs of early mint into a large tumbler, and sprinkle over them a table-spoon- ful of white powdered sugar. Fill up a third of the glass with peach brandy and French brandy in equal proportions, and add as much pounded ice as the tumbler will contain. Rub the rim of the tumbler with a slice of fresh pine-apple, and drink the contents as the ice melts. If the brandy is not at hand, a glassful of sherry and a glassful of gin may be sub- stituted for it, and an inch or two of orange- rind may be added as flavouring. Punch, Glasgow (from Lockhart's " Peter's Letters" ).—" The sugar being melted with a little cold water, the artist squeezed about a dozen lemons through a wooden strainer, and then poured in water enough almost to fill the bowl. In this state tbe liquor goes by the name of sherbet, and a few of the connoisseurs in his immediate neighbourhood were requested to give their opinion of it—for in the mixing of the sherbet lies, according to the Glasgow Creed, at least one-half of the whole battle. This being approved of by an audible smack from the lips of the umpires, the rum was added to the beverage, I suppose, in something about the proportion from one to seven. Last of all, the maker cut a few limes, and running each section rapidly round the rim of his bowl, squeezed in enough of this more delicate aciid to flavour the whole composition." Glasgow punch should be made of the coldest spring water, newly drawn from the spring. The acid ingredients mentioned above are enough for a large bowl. Punch, Hot.—In order to make good punch, it is necessary that the sherbet—or mix- ture of sugar, flavoui-ing, acid juice, and water- should be both rich and delicate, and that the ingredients should be thoroughly blended. When the latter point is attained, the spirits and wme can be added, in proportions to suit the taste. The following recipe is a general iavounto :—Rub the rind of a large fresh lemon with two or throe lumps of sugar till all the ycUow f.rirf, has been taken eft'; then iulil more sutfar to make up the weight to foui- ounces. I Put this into the punchbowl, and strain over it the juice of the lemon. Pour then into the punch-bowl a pint of boiling water, and stir the mixture well for five or six minutes. Add a quarter of a pint of rum, the third of a pint of brandy, and stir again. Half a nutmeg, grated, may be added or not. Time to prepare, a few minutes. Sufficient for a quart of punch. Punch, Hot (another way).—Rub two or three lumps of sugar upon the rind of three fresh lemons, or, if preferred, upon two lemons and one Seville orange, until the yellow part is taken off; then add more sugar to make up the weight to six ounces. Put this into the punch- bowl, strain over it the juice of the fruit, and add a pint and a half of boiling water. Stir the mixture until the sugar is dissolved, then add a pint of r\un and a glassful of brandy. A spoonful of noyau will improve the flavour of this punch. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Sufficient for three pints of punch. Punch Icing.—Take some very white and finely-sifted sugar, and mix it to a thick syrup with a little lemon-juice and rum. Before using it, make it hot, and put whatever is iced with it into a cool oven to dry as soon as the icing is spread upon it. Punch in Haste.—Rub the rind of a fresh lemon with a large lump of sugar till the yellow part ,is taken ofi. Crush it to powder, with a quarter of an ounce of citric acid, and pour over it a pint of claiified sjTup. Put a table-spoonful of this flavoured syrup into a pint of water, add a glassful of rum or a glassful of brandy, or a mixture of both, and serve. Punch Jelly.—Rub off the yeUow part of two large fresh lemons with one or two lumps of sugar, then add more sugar to make up the weight to ten ounces. Put this into a bowl, pour over it the strained juice of three lemons and a Seville orange, and put the bowl aside for a while. Put an ounce and a half of best isinglass iuto a very clean saucepan, with a pint of cold water. Stir over the fire tiU the mixture boils, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. At the end of twenty minutes, throw a lump of sugar and a tea-spoonful of vinegar into it, and add about a table-spoonful of cold water. Stir lightly, carefully remove the scum, and strain the liquor through a napkia. Put it into a clean saucepan, and add to it the contents of the bowl that was set aside, a quarter of a piut of brandy, and a quarter of a pint of rum. Let aU simmer gently together for foiir minutes, then strain the liquor through a jeUy-bag into the mould. If liked, calf's foot stock can be used, and then half the quantity only of isinglass will be required. Punch Jelly (a French recipe).—Throw the peel of two sound lemons and half an ounce of tea into a syrup nearly boiling; cover it, and whilst it is cooling, run the juice of fiive lemons through a bag. Pass the infusion through a silk sieve, and and mix with it half a pint of good arrack or rum, and one ounce of isinglass clarified. Finish as usual. Punch Jelly, made with Gelatine.— Rub two or thi-ee lumps of sugar upon the rind