( 743 ) BIO BIG into a saucepan with a pint and a half of cold milk. Let it siinmer gently until it is so tender that it will pulp through a sieve. Put the pulp and milk into a clean saucepan, with a small pinch of salt, a little sugar, and a flavouring of lemon-peel, cinnamon, or grated nutmeg. Rice milk may be enriched by the addition of a little piece of butter, one or two beaten eggs, a glassful of wine, or a table-spoon- ful of bi-andy, but these additions should be made after the rice is taken off the fire. Or, mix a table-spoonful of rice smoothly with a little cold milk. Pom- upon this gradually a pint of hot milk, and boil the mixture till it is smooth, stii-ring all the time. 8weeten and flavour according to taste. Time to boil the whole rice, about an houi- and a half; the ground rice, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. per pint. Rice Caudle, Savoury. — Soak two table-spoonfuls of rice in a cupful of cold water for an hour. Drain it, and put it in a sauce- pan with three-quarters of a pint of mUk and three-quarters of a pint of good stock. If tiUTiips have been boiled in the stock so much the better. Add half a tea-spoonful of chopped onion and a httle pepper and salt, and boii the rice till it is tender. Pulp it through a sieve, boU it up again, and serve. Be particularly cai-cful tiiat the milk does not boil over, and in order to prevent this stir it if necessary. A little of the fat left on the top of the broth, or a small slice of butter, will help to keep the rice from burning. Time, one hour to one hour and a half. Bice Cheesecakes.—Beat four ounces of butter to cream; add four ounces of pow- dered and sifted loaf sugar, two ounces of ground rice, a pinch of grated orange or lemon- rind, and two well-beaten eggs. Or, simmer a pint of cream with a little mace, cinnamon, lemon, or orange till it is pleasantly flavoured. Add gradually, off the fire, two ounces of ground rice, and stir the preparation again, over the fire, till it is quite smooth. Pom- it into a bowl, and when it is a little cool mix with it six weU- bcaten eggs. Stir it over the fire till it is thick like curd, sweeten, and add to it two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds. Or, beat four ounces of butter to cream ; add tour ounces of pounded and sifted sugar, four ounces of ground rice, the well-beaten yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, and a glassful of brandy. A little lemon, orange, or almond flavouring may be added. Or, wash two ounces of rice, and boil it in plenty of water tiU tender. Drain it and beat it well, then put it into a sauce- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pint of cream, three table-spoon- fuls of powdered sugar, three eggs well beaten, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and a little lemon or almond flavouring. Stir the mixture over the fire till it is thick, then let it cool. To make the cheesecakes prepare any of the above mixtures, line some patty-pans with good pastry, three-parts fill them with the preparation, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost, lid. to 2d. each. Bice, Chicken Baked in {?ee Chicken Baked in Rice). Bice, Compote of.—Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, and drain it. Put it into a saucepan with a large quantity of boiling water, let it boil very quickly, leave the saucepan uncovered, and boil until the grains are soft when pressed between the thumb and finger, but quite distinct. Drain the rice, and steam it in a clean saucepan near the fire till it is dry. Spread it on a dish, sprinkle powdered sugar and cinnamon plentifully over it, and set it by for an hour. Just before serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and pour upon it equal parts of light wine and water sweetened. Time to boil the rice, about twenty minutes. Sufficient for four or five persons. Bice Cream.—Mix a large table-spoonful of ground rice very smoothly with a little milk, and add more milk to make the quantity up to half a pint. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, with the yellow part of half a lemon rubbed upon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of isinglass or gelatine, and a little piece of butter, and let it boil gently for five minutes, stirring all the time. Pour it out, and when it is almost cold stu' into it a quarter of a pint of thick cream. Beat the preparation until it begins to stiffen, pour it into a mould, and put it in a cool place to set. Serve with fresh fruit, or with fruit-jelly reduced to syrup. Time, five minutes to boil the cream. Pro- bable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for a pint mould. Bice Cream (another way).—Simmer a pint of milk with a little lemon-rind or cinna- mon till it is pleasantly flavoured. Mix in a bowl two ounces and a half of ground rice smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and add the well-beaten yolks of four and the white of two eggs. Stir the milk when boiling into this, then boil it, and add a little sugar. Pour the rice into a mould, and set it in a cool place until wanted. Turn it out, and serve with fruit or custard. It is better made the day before it is to be used. Time to boil the cream, three minutes. If liked, the eggs can be omitted. Probable cost, lOd. Bice Cream (another way).—-iSee Cream, Rice. Bice, Creamed.—Take half a pound of rice, wash and pick it; parboil and strain; season with pepper and salt; pour over it a quart of soup or of good veal stock ; let it boil two hours and pass it through a tamis. Bice Croquettes.—Prepare the rice as for Gateau of Rice [see Rice, Gateau of). When it has swelled in the cream and is properly seasoned, let it cool; then roll it into cro- quettes the shape of a cork. Next strew over them crumbs of bread (by which is meant that you dip them first into beaten egg and next into crumbs of bread. HoU them several times in the crumbs in what form you please, and mind they are made a fine colour. When you have fried them of a good colour, you may glaze them on one side with pounded sugar, by using the salamander. Send up with fried parsley of a nice colour in the centre.