( 676 ) PIN PIN Strain it, and put it buck into tho saucepan with the fruit, and lot it sinuuor u quurtor of iin hour: then add sugar to taste, and Hiinmur anotlicr quarter of an hour. Turn it out, and it is ready for serving. I'robablo cost, pine- apples, when cheap, Is. 6d. to 2s. each. Pine-apple Pudding.—Boil Imlf a pint of milk with three ounces of butter and three ounces of sugar. As soon as tlie milk rises in IJio pan, lift it from the fire, stir four ounces of flour into it, and beat it well until it is quite smooth. Put it on tho fire again, and stir until it leaves tho sides of the saucepan with tho spoon. Pour it out, and mix in the well- beaten yolks of three eggs and three ounces of preserved pine-apple cut into dice. Butter a mould rather thickly, and just before pouring tho mixture into it, add the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten to a firm froth. Steam the pudding by placing it in a saucepan upon an inverted pudding-plate, and keeping it sur- rounded with about three inches of boiling water until it is done enough. Turn the pudding out upon its dish, with a little wine sauce poured over it. Time to steam, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for four pci'sons. Pine-apple Pudding (another way).— Cut three ounces of preserved pine-apple into dice, and carefully preserve the syrup for the sauce. Crumble three ounces of stale sponge- cake. Pour over them a quarter of a pint of milk or cream, and add three weU-beaten eggs, the fruit, and a dessert-spoonfid of powdered and sifted loaf sugar. Beat all thoroughly for a quarter of an houi-. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, cover with buttered writing- paper, and steam the pudding by placing the mould upon a plate turned upside down in a saucepan, and keeping round it two inches of boiling water. Let it steam until done enough, then turn it out carefully, and send it to table with the sauce poured round it. To make the sauce, put two table-spoonfuls of the pine-apple syrup into a saucepan, with two table-spoonfuls of water, a table-spoonful of apple-jelly, and a small lump of sugar crushed to powder. Let the syrup boil, then thicken it with half a tea-spoon- ful of arrowroot, mixed smoothly with a small quantity of cold water. Boil it a minute or two, add a table-spoonful of brandy or cura9oa, and serve. Time to steam the pudding, about fifty minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pine-apple Pudding, Cold, or Pain d.'Ananas.—Cut a ripe pme-applc into slices, and boil it for ten minutes in a pint of syrup. Lift out the fruit, and press it through a sieve. Soak an ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for twenty minutes, drain it, put it into the syrup in which the pine-apple was boiled, and stir it over the fire until it is (lissolved. Strain through a napkin, and when the syrup is cold mix the pine-apple pulp with it. Decorate a plain mould with an ounce of pistachios cut into strips, a large pear cut into dice, and some preserved cherries. The fruit znay be stuck upon tho mould with a little molted gelatine. Pour in the mixture, and place the pudding upon ice until it is wanted. Turn it out before serving. Tiine to prepare, about an hour. Probable cost, 3a. Sufficient for six or soveu persons. Pine-apple Pudding, Cold, or Pain d'Ananas, Rich.—I'are a large ripe pine- n[)l>\v, and carefully take out the specks or eyes. Slice it, and cut it into dice. Boil for ten minutes in a quarter of a pint of syrup, and put the fruit aside until wanted. Tear the rind into small pieces, and pour over these half a pint of boiling cream. Let them infuse for half an hour, then stir in the yolks of six eggs, well beaten, and three table-spoonfuls of sugar. Stir the custard over a moderate fire until it begins to thicken, strain it, and when it is quite cold add the syrup and the fniit. Ornament a plain mould according to tho directions given in the i^re- ceding recipe, set it in ice, and fill it with the preparation. Put a baking-sheet over it, lay some ice on this, and let it remain until it is wanted. Turn it out of the mould carefully, and serve. Time to prepare, an hour or more. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pine-apple Punch,.—^Take a sound, ripe, well-flavoured pine-apple, pare it, pick out the specks, and cut it into thin slices. Weigh the pulp, and put half a pound of it into a bowl. Boil a quarter of a pound of best Carolina rice in a quart of cold water, with two inches of stick cinnamon, and a quarter of a drachm of green nutmeg. AYhen the rice is soft, strain the water, and put it aside for a short time. Rub a few lumps of sugar upon the rind of eight fresh lemons, add more sugar to make up a pound and a haK, and put this and the strained juice of the lemons with the pine- apple. Pour in three pints of boiling water, and then with two jugs—one in each hand— pour the liquid backwards and forwards from a good height, and continue this for twenty minutes. Add gradually half a bottle of French brandy, half a bottle of madeira, and a bottle and a half of rum, and whilst the spirits and wine are being added keep on pouring the liquid from one jug to another for fully three- quarters of an hour, by which time the pxmch will bo delicately flavoured. Last of all, add the seasoned rice-water, stir it quickly into the punch, pour the preparation into a bowl with a closely-fitting lid, throw a cloth over this, and leave it in a cool place for eight hours. Strain through a jelly-bag until tho punch is quite blight, then bottle it, and cork securely. Pine- apple punch improves with keeping. Sufficient for about a gallon of punch. Pine-apple Sauces for Puddings.— Pare a pine-apple, and carefully remove the specks. Cut it into slices, and then into dice, and place these in a saucepan. Witli twelve ounces of fruit put four table-spoonfuls of water, let tho fruit simmer gently, and when it is quite tender mix with it half a pound of powdered and sifted sugar. Let it boil a few minutes, and pour it over the pudding. Or, pare the fruit as above directed, weigh it. and cut it into dice. Put a quarter of a pound into a saucepan with