( 967 ) THI THI thick substance which -will have settled at the bottom. Pour the clear oiled butter into a clean stewpan, mix the dried and sifted Hour thoroughly and gradually with it, and beat it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until it fonns a thick mass. Continue to stir it patiently until it is lightly coloured. Draw it to the side of the fire, and throw in with it a slice of onion for flavouring, and do not cease to stir the mixture until it no longer bubbles. Take out the onion, pour the roux into an earthen jar, and let it get cold. It then will be ready for use. When wanted for thickening, mix the voux. with the sauce, and stir it tiU it boils. The sauce only attains its proper con- sistency after it has been stiiTed and boiled. This thickening may be mixed with either hot or cold liquor. If cold, stir it over the fire till it boils. If hot, moisten the i-oux gradually, and ofE the fire, with the sauce, then pour it into the remainder, and stir it over the fire till it boils. In order to cleanse sauce that has been thickened, that is, to remove the fat which has not become thoroughly incorporated with the gravy, di'aw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and throw in a small quantity of lukewarm water. The fat, &c., will rise to the surface, and may be removed with a spoon. Time to brown the roux, about an hour. A dessert- spoonful will thicken a pint of gravy. Thickening, Brown (M. Ude's way).— Put into a stewpan a piece of butter propor- tionate to the quantity of thickening intended to be prepared. Melt it gently; take out the buttermilk, then put flour enough to make a paste. Fry it on a slow fire, and then put it again over very red ashes till it be of a nice colour. Observe, this is to be obtained only by slow degrees. When of a light brown pour it into an earthen pan, and preserve for use. It will keep a long time. Thickening of Egg.—Boil the sauce, and take it ofE the fire for two minutes that it may partially cool. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and mix them with a spoonful of cold broth or water and a small portion of the hot sauce, Stir them briskly to the remainder of the sauce, and continue stirring over the fire until it is very hot. It must not boil or it wiU curdle. Thickening of Farinaceous Sub- stances.— Occasionally arrowroot, ground rice, or flour without butter, is used to thicken soups and sauces. In this case put the thicken- ing substance into a basin, moisten gradually with a little cold stock, water, or milk, and beat it with the back of a spoon until no lumps are to bo found in it. With one hand pour this batter into the soup or sauce, which should bo boiling quickly at the time, and with the other stir it briskly. Let it boil for a few minutes, and it wiU be ready for serving. Invalids and persons of delicate taste often object strongly to butter in their sauces. Thickening, Quickly made (for immo- mcdiate use).—When it is wished to thicken sauces, and brown thickening is not at hand, dissolve half an ounce of butter, and then mix smoothly with it a table-spoonful of flour. Stir it quickly over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon for thi-ee minutes, moisten gradually with a pint of stock or broth, let it boil three or four minutes, season properly, and it will be ready for use. Sufficient for a pint of sauce. Thickening, Simple, for ordinary- Brown Soup.—Put a breakfast-cupful of stock into a saucepan with a quarter of an ounce of sage, a quarter of an ounce of chopped onion, a quarter of an ounce of grated lemon-peel, and two ounces of celery. Let these simmer gently for half an hour, strain the liquor, and rub the herbs through a fine sieve. Dissolve six ounces of butter, and incorporate with it, gradually and thoroughly, six ounces of dried flour. Stir it quickly over a gentle fire till it is lightly browned. Moisten the mixture with the liquor from the herbs, and it will be ready for the soup, which ought to boil for an hour after it is added. Suitable seasoning Avill of course be required in addition. Time, three-quarters of an hour. Sufiicient for five quarts of soup. Thickening, White, for Sauces.— In making white thickening for sauces, foUow exactly the directions given for making Brown Thickening, remembering only that the mixture must not be allowed to colour. In order to prevent this it must be baked over a very gentle fire, and it must not remain on the fire so long as in the former case. When done enough it must be turned into an earthen jar, and set aside for use. White thickening is used for thickening white sauces. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Sufiicient, a dessert-spoonful will thicken a pint of gravy. Thickening with Blood (occasionally used with poultiy and game, especially hare). —Be careful not to use the blood until it is cool. Boil whatever sauce is to be thickened with it, then take it off the fire for two minutes. Mix the blood gradually with a small portion of this in a basin separately, and afterwards add it to the rest. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is very hot. It must not boil after the blood is added, or it will curdle. Thickening with Butter or Butter and Cream.—Although it is usual to speak of thickening sauce or soup with butter or butter and cream, these articles do not by them- selves serve to thicken the liquor, but only to make it smooth and rich. A little cold butter added at the last moment to sauce greatly improves its flavour; but it should be remem- bered that it must not be put in until the sauce is poured into the tureen in which it is to be served, and that then it should be stirred until it is dissolved. In the same way, butter or a mixture of butter and cream may be added to soups. Thistle-heads with Marrow.—Pro- ceed as recommended in the recipe Thistle-heads with Spanish Sauce. Take a few pieces of beef marrow, all of a size, which put in warm water to draw out all the blood. Wlien thoroughly disgorged, blanch and stew them in water with a little salt and a few slices of lemon to keep them white. When done, drain in a clean towel, and put them into the essence, which IS some Espagnole reduced. Drain the fat, and do not forget to add a little sugar, which ia