( 805 ) SAL 8At;» Salmon, Cutlets of. Pried wav) —Cut the salmon into slices an men tniCK. Pepper these, and bind a sage-leaf on each. Fry the fillets in hot fat tiU the flesh leaves the bone easily, or broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Place on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve. Salmon Cutlets, Scotch—Cut in the direction of the width of the fish as many cross- slices of the breadth of a finger as may be required; put them in scalding-hot water, and let them boil ten minutes. "By this very economical proceeding, there is none of that waste which generally results from the dressing of the whole fish at once." Salmon Cutlets with ShaUot Sauce. —Take a large fillet of salmon, remove the skin, then divide it transversely and slantwise into slices; beat these slightly, and pare them in an oval form. Salt them, dip them m oil, and place them on a gridiron previously warmed and rubbed with oiled paper; broil the cutlets on both sides for twelve or fifteen minutes, basting them with oil. Dish them, and send to table with the following sauce poured over them:—Put into a stewpan two table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots and four of good vinegar; set the pan on the fire, and boil till the vinegar is reduced one-half. Eemove the saucepan from the fire, and when its con- tents are about cold add the yolks of four eggs, which beat with a spoon ; add also four spoon- fuls of good oil. Set the preparation on a slow fire, and thicken the sauce, stirring all the time. Eemove it back, and introduce into it by small quantities at a time half a glass- ful of oil alternated with the juice of half a lemon; finish with a little chopped tarragon and parsley. Salmon, Devilled.—Mix a spoonful of mustard with two spoonfuls of lucca oil, one spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a pinch of cayenne. Cut some thin slices of kippered salmon, rub the mixture into them, and lay them on fried toast which has been seasoned rather highly with pepper or cayenne. Put the toast in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve immediately. If Uked, thin biscuits of any kind may be substituted for the toast. They must be soaked in lucca oil, and toasted till crisp. Salmon, Dried, Kippered, or Salted. —Cut a moderate-sized salmon down the back, empty, scale, and wash it. Rub it inside and out with common salt, and let it hang to drain for twenty-four hours. Mix thoroughly one ounce of pounded saltpetre with two ounces of bay-salt, and one ounce of common sugar. Rub the salmon with this mixture in every part, lay it on a large dish, cover it with salt, and let it lie for two days. Turn it over, and rub it again with common salt, and in twenty-four hours it will be fit for drying. Wipe it well, stretch it open with two sticks, and hang it in a dry cool place ; or if it is to be smoked, hang it in a chimney or smoke-house. It may be used in a few days. Salmon, Dried or Kippered, to Dress.—An excellent relish for breakfast may be made with dried salmon, and it is specially valuable, as it am be used when other fish is not in the market. It may be dressed in two or three ways. No. 1. Wash the salmon in cold water, wipe it with a soft cloth, and lay it on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. The inside of the fish should be placed to the fire first, and it should be turned over when it is half done. Lay it on a hot dish, butter it well, and serve hot. Or cut it into slices, and heat these through in the oven or before the fire. Serve with mustard sauce. No. 2. Soak the salmon in water, to remove some of the salt. Put it in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and let it simmer gently till it is done enough. It must not boil, or the flesh will be hard. Serve with egg sauce. No. 3. Pull the skinoif the salmon, and tear the thick part of the flesh into flakes. Pour boiling water over it, let it stand for three minutes, then drain it, and put it into a sauce- pan with as much milk as will moisten it. Let it simmer very gently for five or six minutes. Dredge a little flour over it, add a slice of fresh butter, stir the mixture for a few minutes, and serve very hot. If liked, newly-mashed potatoes can be mixed with the flaked salmon just before it is sent to table. No. 4. Wash a salted salmon, let it lie in water for twenty- four hours, changing the water several times. Scale it, cut it into four parts, put it into a saucepan, and cover with cold water. When it is half done, change the water, and simmer the salmon till it is tender. Drain it, put it into an earthenware dish, sprinkle cayenne, allspice, cloves, and mace over each piece, cover with vinegar, and let it remain for four or five hours. Serve cold for breakfast or tea. Salmon thus prepared is named Soused Salmon. Salmon, Fillets of.—Fillets of salmon differ from salmon cutlets in this : that in the latter the fish is cut into slices through the bone, but in the former the flesh is raised from the bone by means of a knife slipped along the spine. When the separation is effected, the skin is removed, and the fish is cut into neat pieces of any shape and thickness that may bo desired, though they are not often more than half an inch thick. Almost all the recipes which are given for salmon cutlets apply also to fillets, and vice versd. The time required for broiling, &c., must be regulated by the thickness of the fish. Salmon, Fillets of (a rAmericaine).—. Cut the flesh of the salmon into neat fillets, dip these into beaten eg-g, drain, and roll them in fine bread-crumbs; fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned, put them in blotting-paper to free them from fat, serve on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Send clear gravy to table with them. Time to fry, eight to fifteen minutes, according to the thickness. Probable cost, salmon, Is. to Is. 6d. per pound when plentiful. Sufficient, two pounds of salmon for four or five persons. Salmon Fillets, Fried.—Cut the fish into neat fillets. Egg and bread-crumb these, and fry them in hot fat till they are done enough. Dish the fillets in a circle, and send tartar sauce, ravigote sauce, aurora sauce, or Indian sauce to table with them. By way