PON POO ( 698 ) before turning it out, dish it ciirofully, and Borve at oaco. If liked, the pudding can bo ad- ditionally flavoured, and will bo improved by boiling in the croam boforo it is poiu'od over the crumbs throe ounces of blanched sweet almonds and three bitter ones. Before sondin" the pudding to table, pour over it a sauco prepared as follows:—Make two gliisses of ahony hot, but do not lot it boil. Pour it oyer a large table-spoonful of powdered and ^ted sugar, and when this is dissolved stir into it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Whisk the sauce briskly over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken and is lightly frothed it is ready. Time to boil the pudding, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 2s. 8d., exclu- sive of the sauce and brandy. Sufficient for a pint mould. Pontiff's Sauce.—Take a quarter of a pound of veal and a quarter of a pound of ham cut into small pieces. Put these into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of carrots, a quarter of a pound of parsnips, a quarter of a pound of celery, and a quarter of a pound of onions, all sliced, and a quarter of an ounce each of lemon rind, shallots, and coriander- seed. Pour over these ingredients a pint of vinegar and half a pint of ketchup, and simmer all very gently for three or four hours. About ten minutes before the sauce is taken from the fire put with it half a pint of white wine. Skim and strain the liquid. When it is cold, put the sauce into small bottles. Cork these securely, and store for use. Probable cost, 2s. 6d., exclusive of the wine. A small portion of the pontiff's sauce to be used for flavouring sauces and gravies. Pooloot, Indian {see Indian Pooloot.) Poor Epicure's Pudding.—Put two pints of new milk into a saucepan with four inches of stick cinnamon, half a dozen blanched and sliced almonds, the thin rind of a lemon, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Bring it slowly to the boil; strain and add to the milk a pinch of salt and a little sugar. If Swiss milk is used sugar will not be required. When the milk is cold, mix with it three weU-beaten eggs. Pour the custard into a buttered pie-dish, and lay on the top slices of bread the third of an inch thick. These should be thickly buttered on both sides, should be entirely free from crust, and should cover the milk entirely. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, forty minutes. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poor Knight's Pudding. —Cut two penny rolls into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay them on a dish, pour over them half a pint of milk, and let them lie imtil the bread has soaked up aU the milk. Make a little custard with three-quarters of a pint of milk, three eggs, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg. Pour half of this over the shoes of roll. Fry in butter until they are brown. Put them on a hot dish, and pour the rest of the custard over them. Send butter and sugar to table with them. Time to fry, about ton minutes. Pro- bable cost, 9d. Sufficient for three or four persona. Poor Man's Galette (see Galette.Poor Man's). Poor Man's Jelly.—Take a cow's heel properly pr(Ji)ared ]jy the butcher. Cut it into HinaU pieces, and put it into a stewpan with throe quarts of cold water. Cover closely, and lot it simmer gently for six or seven hours until the liquid is reduced to thi-ee pints. Strain, and let it stand until stiff. Take the fat from the top, and clear it oft" entirely by rinjjing with a httlo warm water and pressing with Wotting-paper. Take out the jelly, being care- ful to leave behind the sediment, which will have settled at the bottom. Put the jelly into a stewpan, with the thin rind and strained juice of two lemons, a pint of Scotch ale, or, if pre- ferred, two glassf uls of shen-y, and eight or nine lumps of sugar. Stir the jelly over the fire, and as it melts mix with it the well-whisked whites and crushed shells of three eggs. As soon as the liquid begins to get hot cease stirring, and do not touch it again. Let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour after it reaches the boiling point. Draw the saucepan away from the fire, and let it stand to settle for twenty minutes longer. Pour it, two or three times if necessary, through a jeUy-bag which has been rung out of boiling water. If, however, the directions given have been closely followed, the jelly can scarcely fail to be clear after once straining. Turn it into a damp mould, and let it stand until firm. Sufficient for two quarts of jelly. Probable cost, 6d. per pint, exclusive of the wine or ale. Poor Man's Sauce for Cold Meats. —Pick a handful of young parsley-leaves, and chop them small. Put with them a table- spoonful of chopped shallots, or a dozen young green onions finely minced, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of pepper. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, put them into a tureen, and pour over them two table-spoon- fuls of salad-oil and four of vinegar. Stir all together and serve. If liked, a table-spoonful of pickled French beans or gherkins cut small may be added to the sauce. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Poor Man's Sauce (another way).— Mince an onion or two or three shallots finely. Fry it in a little dripping until it is tender; then pour over it a glass of \inegar and a glass of water or broth, and add a httlc pepper and salt. Let the sauce simmer gently a few minutes, and serve. A table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup can be added or not. This sauce may be served with yoimg roast turkey. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Poor Man's Soup.—The dripping which is used for making soup should be taken out of the tin almost as soon as it has dropped from the meat. If any cinders have accidentally dropped into it, it should be clarified. Throw four t^ible- spoonfuls of beef dripping into two quarts of boihng water. Add an ounce of butter, a pound and a half of raw potatoes sliced, and a little pepper and salt. BoU for an hour. Take the heart of a yoimg cabbage, break it into small pieces, throw it into the soup, and let it boil