( 1087 ) VER VER peatedly till it is clear. Bottle it, and expose it to the sun, uncorked, for six or seven days. The liquor wiU ferment, and the bottles must be filled up every morning. To preserve it, an ounce of salt should be added to each pint of juice, and it should be kept in well-closed bottles. Gooseberry verjuice is much used in France. It is sweetened and coloured, and sold as " Syrup de Groseilles." It is made just like grape verjuice. When crab-apples are made use of for this purpose, they must be gathered fuUy ripe, then piled in a heap, and left for a few days to sweat before the juice is expressed from them. All decayed apples must of course be discarded. As verjuice is very liable to undergo decomposition, the vessels in which it is to be preserved should be sulphured before it is put into them. To do this, introduce into the jars a burning match that has been dipped in melted sulphur, fill the bottles while they are full of the smoke, and cork instantly and very securely. Vermicelli.—Vermicelli is a preparation of wheaten flour, of a substance similar to macaroni, the difference between them being that the latter is made in larger tubes. It is in the form of long threads, and derives its name from its worm-like appearance, as vermi- celli means little woi-ms. It is of Italian origin, and with macaroni forms the principal food of the people in Italy. It is used amongst us in soups and broths, and for making puddings, &c. Vermicelli {h la Eeine).—Blanch the ver- naiceUi in boiling water, di-ain it, and throw it into some rich consomme well seasoned. When done, a short time before serving thicken it with the yolks of eight eggs mixed with cream, and pour the vermiceUi into the tureen for fear the thickening should get too much done, which would be the case if it remained on the comer of the stove. Vermicelli (au lait).—Boil a quart of milk, and drop lightly into it six ounces of vermicelli which has been blanched in boiling water to free it from all impurities. Simmer gently, and stir frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. When tender, sweeten it and send it to table. Time to boil the vermi- celli, fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to quality. Vermicelli Chestnuts for Dessert. — Peel the brown skin from twenty fine chestnuts. Put them in a saucepan, and cover with water. When they begin to be hot, take off the second skin very carefully. Put them into a preserving-pan, cover with thin syrup, and simmer gently till tender. Take them up, and put them upon a dish. Throw into the syrup two or throe inches of thin lemon- rind, or a small piece of stick vanilla, and boil ^ it till thick and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, and put the chestnuts into it again. Eub them through a hair sieve into the dish in which they are to be served, and do not let the pur6e be touched till it is Bent to table. In appearance it wiU some- what resemble vermicelli. Time to simmer the chestnuts, twenty minutes. Vermicelli, Chinese Preparation of. I' A dough is prepared out of small green peas by soaking them thoroughly in water, and grinding them between stones, adding water, and pressing them through a sieve, then sub- jecting the mass obtained to pressure in a strong vessel, and thus removing the water. This dough, well softened with water, is poured through a gourd vessel, usually with ten holes in it, into a vessel of boiling water; the higher the gourd above the boiling water the longer and finer the vermiceUi. On removal from the boiling water the threads are immediately dried." Vermicelli, Portuguese.—Break lightly thi-ee ounces of vermicelli. Soak it in water for an hour, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint of milk and an inch of stick vanilla, or a little lemon-rind. Let it simmer gently for an hour and a quarter. Take out the flavouring ingredient, stir into it three additional, table-spoonfuls of milk, and sweeten to taste. Simmer twenty minutes longer. Let it cool a little, then stir into it four well-beaten eggs. Beat it over the fire till it is on the point of boiling, draw it back, and add a small wine-glassful of thick cream and another of brandy. When wanted, put it into a glass dish, and keep it in a cool place till it is to be served. A few minutes before it is wanted, crush three macaroons to powder, and sprinkle the dust thus obtained over the vermicelli. Time,"four hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d, exclusive of the brandy. Sufficient for five or six persons. Vermicelli Pudding (a GeiToan recipe). —Take a pint of milk, and boil it with six ounces of butter; throw in at the moment of boiling three ounces of vermiceUi, and stir till it thickens and no longer adlieres to the sides of the pan. Take the preparation off the fire, and when cool stir in two ounces of powdered sugar, an ounce of powdered almonds, including four bitter ones, the grated peel of half a lemon, a little spice if liked, and the yolks of six eggs; then add the whites of the eggs whisked to snow. Boil the pudding briskly for an hour in a well-buttered form. Serve with a fruit or wine sauce. VermiceUi Pudding, Baked, Plain. —Flavour a pint and a quarter of milk with cin- namon, lemon-rind, or grated nutmeg. Strain and boU it, and drop into it gradually when boil- ing a quarter of a pound of vermicelli. Stir it over the fire tiU it is tender and the milk is thick. It wiU take about a quarter of an hour. Pour it into a bowl, and beat it weU with a pmch of salt and a little powdered sugar. When nearly cold add one well-whisked egg. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven. WTien it is nicely browned "Pon the top it is done enough. If a richer i?f required, an additional egg or more should be put m, together with a quarter of a pint of cream and a Uttle brandy. Time to bake the puddmg, three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Vermicelli Pudding, BoUed.—Put tour ounces of fresh vermicelli into a saucepan