( 938 ) SUE SUE according to size. Probablo coat, lOd. Sufficient for lour or five persons. Suet Dumplings. Sweet.—Prepare the suet duiuplin'4- as in tlui last recipe. Before putting the sin;t into the Hour, take the neces- SJiry quantity of salt, and mix with it a tahle- spoonful of sugar, a pinch of grated nutnuig or spice, and any flavouring ingredients that may be chosen. Mi.x: all thoroughly together, make the mixture into dough, divide it into balls, and boil as before. A few currants may bo added if liked, and instead of sugar a spoon- ful of treacle may be dissolved in the water. Time to boil the dumplings, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour, according to size. Dumplings made with one pound of flour and half a pound of suet will be sufficient for five or six persons. Probable cost, 8d. Suet, Milk {see Milk Suet). Suet Paste for Boiled Puddings {see Paste, Suet, &c.). Suet Pastry, Common.—Suet pastry is especially suited for boiled fruit or meat pud- dings. To make it, put a pound of flour into a bowl, add a pinch of salt and from six to eight ounces of good suet which has been finely shred and freed entirely from skin and fibre. The suet should be well rubbed into the flour. ]\Iake a hole in the centre of the mixture, and pour in a small tea-cupful of water. Stir this in lightly with a knife, and if necessary add more water. Work the whole to a stiff paste, roll it out two or three times, and let it stand a few minutes before using it. If a small quantity only of suet is used, a tea-spoonful of baking- powder may be added, and this will help to make the pastry light. Suet Pastry, Rich (for meat pies, &c.). —If the following directions are attended to, suet may be used instead of butter for making puff paste for meat pies which are to be served hot. If they are to be eaten when cold, butter had better be used. The difference in the ex- pense between suet and good butter is con- siderable, and bad butter will spoil anything. Take some dry veal or beef-kidney suet. Free it entirely from skin and fibre, chop it small, then pound it in a mortar, and whilst pounding keep adding a tea-spoonful of salad-oil till the suet looks like butter. If oil is not at hand, fresh butter may be used instead. Two ounces will be sufficient for half a pound of suet. Pro- ceed as for puff paste {see Paste, Puff, or Feuille- tage). Suet, lOd. per pound. Suet Pudding {see Kentish Suet Pudding). Suet Pudding (another way). — Chop eight ounces of suet finely. Mix with it an cqTial weight of finely-grated bread-crumbs, ;ind add a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, and two eggs. Mix thoroughly. Tie the mixture in a cloth, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and boil quickly till done enough. Time to boil, four hours. Probable fost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Suet Pudding (another way).—Chop small four ounces of suet free from skin and ] fibre. Add u pinch of salt, a little grated , ■ ginger, and half a jmiind of iiour. WTiisk i two eggs with a quart('r of a pint of milk. Stir this into the mixture till it is smooth I and light. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, lioing careful to leave it room to swell, and boil ([uickiy till done enough. Serve witli sweet or wine sauce. Time to boil, about two hours. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four persons. Suet Pudding, Dr. Kitchiner's.— Shred finely seven ounces of good kidney suet. Put this into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, half a tea- spoonful of thin lemon-rind chopped small, four ounces of flour, and three ounces of bread- crumbs. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Whisk two fresh eggs till they are light and frothy, add gradually a quarter of a pint of milk, and stir the liquor into the pudding. Let it stand half an hour. Put it in one xum]> into a well-floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil quickly until done enough. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Suet Pudding, Fruit {see Fruit Suet Pudding). Suet Pudding, Plain.—An excellent plain suet pudding may be made by following the instructions already given for making suet dumplings, then boiling the preparation whole instead of dividing it into dumplings. A pud- ding thus made will be excellent if served with the joint, and with plenty of gravy ; or it may be sent to table separately, having had a jai of jam emptied upon it at the last moment. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Suet Pudding, Plain (served with sugar and lemon-juice).—^Kub two ounces of finely- shred suet into a pound of flour. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, and just before the water or milk is added mix in two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder. Add water to make a tolei-ablj- light paste ; then put the pudding in a floured cloth, and boil it till done enough. This pud- ding is also very good with gravy. Time to boil, one hour. Probable cost, 5d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Suet, to Clarify for Frying.—Chop the suet roughly, free it from skin and fibre, and melt it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Pour the fat off frequently as it melts, for fear it should burn; or put the minced suet into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and keep it boiling until it is dissolved. Pour the liquor into a basin, and when it is cold take the cake of fat from the top. Melt it again, strain it through muslin, keep back the sediment, and the fat will be fit for use. Clarified suet is ex- cellent for making plain pastry, and also for basting and frying purposes. Suet, to Keep for Months.—Take firm but perfectlv sweet suet. Free it entirely from skin and fibre, and put it in a saucepan over a very gentle fire. Let it melt gradually. Pour it into a pan of cold water. When it ia cold and