( 647 ) POW PRA powder between ninety-sLx blue papers. Put six ounces of tiirtiu-ic acid into the same number of white papers. Use as directed in the pre- ceding recipe. Powders, Lemonade. —Take twelve grains of powdered citric or tartaric acid, half an ounce of white sugar powdered, one di-op of essence of lemon, or a little of the yellow peel of a lemon rubbed off on a lump of sugar. Enough for one glass. Powders, Lemonade (another way).— Take four pounds of white sugar powdered, an ounce and a half of citric or tartaric acid, and a quarter of an oxmce of essence of lemon. Mix well, and bottle for use. To make a glass of lemonade, take one to two dessert-spoonfuls of the powder. Powders, Lemonade (another way).-- Powder half an ounce (apothecaries' weight) of citric or tartaric acid with three ounces of loaf sugar and a few drops of oil of lemon-peel. Rub these ingredients thoroughly together in a marble mortar, and divide the powder into twelve parts. For use, dissolve one of these in half a pint of cold water. Powders, Lemonade, Effervescing. —Take one pound of powdered white sugar, a quarter of a pound of bicarbonate of soda, and one and a half drachms of essence of lemon. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and divide them between six dozen papers. Take five ouQces of tartaric or citric acid, and divide it between the same number of white papers. Use as in the case of Ginger Beer Powders {see Powders, Ginger Beer). Powders, Sherbet. — Prepare in the same way as Lemonade Powders, varying the flavouring ingredient to suit the particular case. Powders, Soda-water.—Place thirty grains of bicarbonate of soda in each blue paper, and twenty-five grains of tartaric acid or twenty-four grains of citric acid in each ■white paper. To use, mix the contents of each paper separately in about half a glassful of water; mix the two and drink at once. This is a cooling, wholesome summer drink, but it should not be partaken of to excess. Powders, Spruce Beer.-Prepare in the same way as Ginger Beer Powders, but, in- stead of powdered ginger, use three to six di'ops of the essence of spruce. Prawn.—The prawn is a delicate shell-fish, very much like a shrimp, but larger and more delicate in flavour. It varies very much in price. Prawn and Lobster Soup.—Take a freshly-boiled hen lobster, remove the meat from the tail and claws, cut it into neat square pieces, and put these aside. Pick fifty prawns, put the head and bruised shells of the lobster and the shells of the prawns into a ste-wpan with a quart of stock, a sliced onion, and an ounce of butter. Let them simmer gently for an hour, then pour over them an additional two quarts of stock. Mix six ounces of flour with a little cold stock, add this to the soup, and stir until it begins to thicken. Draw it back, set it by the side of the fire, let it simmer gently for half an hour, then press the whole through a fine sieve. Return the soup to the stewpan and let it boil; skim carefully, and add whatever seasoning is required. Put in the picked prawns and the lobster meat, let them get quite hot, add a breakfast-cupful of thick cream, and serve Time, two hours or more. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Prawn Curry.—Chop half an onion very finely, put it into a stewpan with half an ounce of fresh butter, and let it steam over a gentle fire until it is tender without being browned. Rub it with a wooden spoon through a fine sieve, mix a dessert-spoonful of curry-paste with the pulp, and add gradually half a pint of good stock. Bon the sauce for a few minutes, put into it a pound of prawns which have been weighed after being boiled and shelled, and let aU stew gently together. Serve the curry on a hot dish with a border of boiled rice round it. Time to stew the pra^vns, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient for five or six persons. Prawn Curry (another way). — Mince an onion finely, and steam it in a little butter until it is quite soft. Rub it through a fine sieve, and mix with the pulp a table-spoonful of the rasped meat of a cocoanut, and a table- spoonful of curry-paste or powder — paste is much the better of the two. Add gradually a pint of good broth and haK a stick of cinna- mon, and let the sauce simmer for a quarter of an hour. Put in a pound of prawns weighed after they have been shelled, and let them simmer for a few minutes. About ten minutes before the curry is taken from the fire, mix a tea-spoonful of flour smoothly with the cocoa- nut-milk, and add it to the sauce. Stir gently over the fire for five minutes, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the curry, and serve very hot. Send boiled rice to table on a separate dish. Time, one hour. Probable cost, prawns, variable. Sufficient for five or six persons. Prawn Pie.—Have as many well-cleaned prawns as will nearly fiU the pie-dish. Season with pounded mace, cloves, a little cayenne or Chili vinegar. Put some butter in the dish, and cover with a light puff-paste. The pie will take less than three-quarters of an hour to bake. Prawn Soup.—Mince finely two onions, a carrot, and half a dozen of the outer sticks of a head of celery, and put them into a stewpan with three ounces of fresh butter, a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, and let them steam gently for a quarter of an hour. Shake the saucepan every now and then to keep them from burning. Pour over them three pints of broth or water, and mix this gradually with four ounces of flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water; stir the liquid over the fire till it boils, then draw it back, let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, and strain. Pick out the tails of fifty prawns, and put the bodies and shells into a stewpan with a little stock and a glassful of light wine. Let them stew for a quiu-ter of an hour; then pass the liquid through a fine sieve, and mix it with the soup. Season