( 963 ) TEA TEA Green tea requires to stand a minute or two longer than black tea. Tea, To make (Debuisson's method).— Put the tea into a kettle with cold water. Cover it close, set it on the fire, and make it very nearly but not quite boil; then take it from the fire. When the leaves sink it is ready. Tea, To Make (Dr. Trusler's method).— This was to make a very strong infusion by pouring boiling water upon the tea, and let it stand twenty minutes, putting into each cup no more than was necessary to fill it about one- third full; then each cup was filled with hot water from an urn or kettle : thus the tea was always hot and equally strong to the end. Tea, Varieties of.—These are very nu- merous. The following are those chiefly met with in the shops of Great Britain : — Green Teas.—Chinese (1): Gunpowder sorts, viz., Shanghai, Ping-Suey or pin's-head, Moyune, Imperial MojTino, and Canton; (2), Hyson sorts, viz., Shanghai, Shanghai young, IVIoyune, Moyune young, Canton young, and Twankay or Imperial Hyson. Japanese: Gun- powder and Young Hyson. Java: Gunpowder. Black Teas.— Chinese (1): Congo sorts, viz., Canton, Foo-chow-foo, Hung-muey, Oopack, Kaisow, and Oonam; (2), Pekoe sorts, \\z., plain Orange, Foo-chow, scented Orange, Can- ton scented Orange, flowery Pekoe, Oolong, and Souchong. Assam: Congo, Orange-pekoe and Souchong. Java: Congo and Imperial. The latter sort is made up in small balls about as big as a pea, and is rather rare. Tea, Weak Green (a refreshing bever- age).—Weak green tea with a little sugar and lemon-juice in it, and no milk, is a most re- freshing drink in cases of fever. It may be taken either cold or hot, but the latter way is to be preferred. Tea, Wholescmeness of. — The fol- lowing rcma.rks on tliis subject by Dr. Gra- ham are well worthy of attention :—" Tea is well known to have a very marked and irri- tating eflfect on the nervous system in some persons, and it is drank in this country far too often and too strong. It forms a refreshing anti-spasmodic beverage, but should not be taken either strong or very hot; the addition of milk renders it more wholesome, that of sugar less so. Individuals of a rigid and solid fibre arc more benefited by it than those of an opposite habit; but no one should take more than two tea-cupfuls morning and evening. I cannot think it equal to cocoa or thin chocolate for common use; and it is very probable that some of our indigenous plants would yield a more wholesome and equally as palatable an infusion as the tea-leaf of China. With some persons no kind of China tea agrees, and then an infusion of agrimony or some other native plant should be substituted for it. I may state on very respectable authority that the first leaves of whoi-tlcberrj^ properly gathered and dried in the shade, cannot be distinguished from real teas. Sage (the Totncntosa or Balsamic Sage) and Balm {Melissa Hortensis or Garden Balm) arc likewise excellent substitutes for tea, more especially in the case of debility in the stomach and nervous system. It is certain that all green tea is exceedingly pernicious, having a strong tendency to injure the stomach and bowels and the whole nervous system. Medi- cinally, tea is of much service in typhus and bilious fevers, cramp of the stomach, flatulency, and to relieve the sensations of oppression and weight at the pit of the stomach so frequently accompanying indigestion and bilious com- plaints. It is, however, worthy of particular notice from the dyspeptic, that few things will injure him more than immoderate indulgence in this or any other warm slop.- " Tea being an article of daily and universal consumption, I would beg the reader's attention to the following rules in using it:—1. Care- fully avoid the high-priced and high-flavoured teas—more especially if green—which gene- rally owe theii- flavour to pernicious ingredients, and abound most with those active principles whence the noxious effects of the article arise. 2. Take with it a good proportion of milk, as a coiTective to any possible noxious qualities present. 3. Let the quantity of tea used at each infusion be very moderate. 4. Make the infusion properly, with water soft and other- wise of a good quality, and in a boiling state. 5. Tea is a bevei'age better adapted for the evening than the morning, and therefore less of it should be taken at the latter than the former period. The first meal we take in the morning to recruit the body, after the loss it has sus- tained during a long fast through the night, and to prepare it for the labours of the succeed- ing hours of the day, should be in some measure substantial, consisting of a large proportion of solid aliment. Indeed, except when drank soon after a hearty dinner, bread and biscuit should always be taken with tea." On the good results following from tea- drinking there is also something to be said: " Physicians now consider that the theine and aromatic oil of tea not only act as sedatives generally on the nervous system, but also exert a conservative action on the different structures of the body, checking any disposition to too rapid a change in them, and consequent ex- haustion. Not only so ; but as the daily re- moval of worn-out materials from the body, through the kidneys and other channels, is essential to health, tea and coffee are regarded as helpful to this process, when taken in moderate quantities. Tea likewise contains potash, peroxide of iron, soda, and several other salts which are most important to the human system. Liebig, the German chemist, says, ' We have, therefore, in tea a beverage which contams the active constituents of the most powerful mineral springs.' " Teal. —The flesh of this beautiful and dchcate little water-fowl is highly prized. It IS considered to bo better flavoured after the frost has set in, and is in season from the end of September to February. It may be served accordmg to any of the recipes given for wild duck,_ though less time will be required to cook it. Teal, Filleted.—A handsome dish may bo made by half roasting the birds, then taking them down, dividing them into neat joints^