1>LU POE ( 694 ) jolly for invalids. Mix in a tumblor a piled toa-spoout'ul of arrowroot with a little cold wutor; pour upon it HufUciont ljoiliiif>- water to forai a clear jelly, stii'riug well whUfit the water is being poui-ed on it; last of all add a glassful of sherry. Plumbe's Arrowroot Omelet.—Boat up two eggs, and mix. with them one table- spoonful of iu-rowroot and a tea-cupful of mUk; add a little popper and salt, and sugar, if pre- ferred ; thi-ow the whole into a ilat saucepan, previously well heated, and covered with melted butter. Keep the saucepan in motion over the fire, then turn the omelet several times; roll it up, and keep it in motion till it is slightly browned. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Pudding, Baked.—Take about four table-spoonfuls of arrowi'oot, or three and a half ounces, and add to it one quart of milk. Boil for four minutes, stirring briskly. Allow the pudding to cool, and then thoroughly mix into it two eggs well beaten, with three table-spoonfuls of sugar. Flavonr to taste, and bake for half an hour in an oven, or brown the pudding before the fire. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot. Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Sponge Cake. —Take a quarter of a pound of arrowroot, a quarter of a pound of butter, and two tea- spoonfuls of baking-powder, and mix these in- gredients very well together. Take three eggs, and beat the yolks and whites separately for fifteen minutes, then add to them a quarter of a pound of bruised white sugar; mix all well together, flavour to taste, beat for fifteen minutes, put the cake into a buttered tin papered all round two inches deeper than the tin, and bake in a quick oven for an hour. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per pound. Plumbe's Arrowroot Thickening for Soups, &C.—To thicken soups take one ounce of arrowroot, and very gradually add sufficient liquid to make it of the consistency of batter; that it may be smooth, moisten spar- ingly at first, and beat with the back of a spoon till every lump has disappeared. BoU the soup quickly whilst the thickening is being stirred into it, and let it simmer for ten minutes after- wards. One ounce of arrowroot is sufficient for one quart of soup. To thicken gravies, sauces, and stews, the arrowroot should be used in the same way as in thickening soups, but scarcely so much should be employed. Probable cost, Plumbe's arrowroot, Is. 6d. per poimd. Podovies, or Beef Patties. — Take half a dozen slices of under-dressed roast beef, with a small portion of fat, shred it finely, and season it with pepper, salt, and a little chopped onion or shallot. Roll out a quarter of a pound of puff-paste very thin. Lay spoonfuls of the minco upon it, an inch apart, and moisten the pastry round the meat with a little water. Cover with a piece of pastry. Press together the portion round each Httle ball of mince, and stamp rounds out with a cutter. Pinch the edges, and fry the patties in hot fat until they are brightly coloured. Drain them on blotttng- pai)(ir, and serve piled high on a dish. Time to fry, ten minutes. .Sufficient, a dozen for two or throe persona. Podovies, or Beef Patties (another way).—Mince very lineiy two or three slices of under-dressed cold roast beef. Mix with the meat a third of its bulk in fat, and season with a little pepper and salt, and a finely-minwid shallot, and, if the flavour is liked, an anchovy cut into small pieces. Prepare the patties ac- cording to the directions given in the preceding recipe, fill them with a tea-spoonful of the mince, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Time, ten to fifteen minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2d. each. iSuf- ficient, a dozen for a dish. Po6le.—Poelo is a kind of rich gravy which is used in expensive cookery to boil various meats in instead of water. It is especially suited for fowls, turkeys, sweetbreads, and similar meats which are in themselves a little insipid. The same poele may be used three or four times, and in favourable weather will keep several days. For ordinary domestic use it is a quite uimecessary expense. To make it, proceed as follows :—Take . a pound of fat bacon and a pound of lean ham, two pounds of veal, two carrots, and two onions, aU cut up into dice. Put them into a stewpan with a pound of fresh butter, and stir constantly until the bacon is half melted. Add a bimch of parslejr, a sprig of thyme, two bruised bay- leaves, three or four cloves, half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, and three or four young onions. Pour in three pints of boiling water, cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents simmer gently for an hour and a half or two hours. Strain through a sieve, and press the meat and vegetables well, to draw out their juices. Keep the poele in a cool place until wanted. Peeling. — Take a pound of beef suet, one of fresh butter, and one of very fat bacon; cut the suet and bacon into very large dice, and put them in a stewpan with two pounds of veal cut in the same manner; fry them till the veal becomes white; moisten with three pints of clear boiliug water, a handful of salt, a bay- leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of parsley and green onions. Let the whole boil quietly tiU the onion is done; strain it through a sieve, and set it by for use. Poele is employed to make everything boiled in it look white, and ac- quire a relishing taste; it wiU keep for a week. Do not boU any lean of bacon with it, or the meat boiled in it wiU turn red, from the saltpetre used in curing the bacon. Pooling and braising are almost the same operation; but in the former, meat must be underdone, in braising overdone. Poet's Recipe for Salad (gencraUy ascribed to the Eev. Sydney Smith):— "Two boiled potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve. Softness and smoothness to the salad gire; Of mordant mustjird add a single spoon, Distrust the condiment which bites too soon; Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault To add a double quantity of salt;