WHI ( 1113 ) WHI seed, and a piece of alum the size of a pea to ' each pint of vinegar. A clove of garlic may be added if liked. Skim the vinegar, and pour it hot over the cabbage. Let it remain three days. Drain off the vinegar, boil it, and again pour it hot over the cabbage. Put the cabbage into bottles or imglazed jars, divide the spices equally amongst these, and cover the pickle entirely with the vinegar. Add more vinegar (which has been boiled and allowed to go cold) as required. Time, eighteen days. "White Cake.—Beat one pound of fresh butter to cream. Work in gradually one poimd of powdered white sugar, one pound of dried flour, a dessert-spoonful each of candied orange and lemon-peel chopped small, an ounce of caraway-seeds, half a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a pint of cream, five well-beaten eggs, a small glassful of brandy, and a little rose or orange-flower water. Beat the cake well between every addition. Mix with it a table- spoonful of fresh yeast, cover with a cloth, and put it on the hearth to rise. When suf- ficiently risen, put it into a well-buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. As soon as it is done enough, brush over with the beaten white of an egg, sprinkle powdered white sugar over it, and put it in a cool oven for a short time till the glazing is hard. Time to let the cake rise, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the brandy, 3s. 4d. W Hite Cake (another way: sometimes called one, two, three, four cake).—Take a cup- ful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three cupfuls of flour, and four eggs. Beat the butter to cream, and add the sugar, the flour, and lastly the eggs. Flavour the mixture -svith grated nutmeg qr lemon-rind. Dredge flour upon the table, and roll out the cake to the thickness of the third of an inch. Put the cakes on baking- sheets, prick them lightly with a fork, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake the cake, about a quarter of an hour. White Cake, American {see American White Cake). White Cakes (simple recipe).—Rub an ounce of butter into half a poimd of dried and sifted flour. Add a small pinch of salt; four table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar, half a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds, one egg, and as much milk as will make a smooth light paste. Roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into shapes, and bake these on baking-tins in a quick oven. Time to bake the cakes, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, 4d. for this quantity. White Cup Cakes.—Take as much fresh butter as will fill one cup, as much powdered white sugar as will fill two cups, and as much flour as will fill three cups. Beat the butter to cream, add the powdered sugar and the flour. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to frotli, and add them gradually to the mixture, together with a table-spoonful of powdered saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, a table-spoonful of rose water, and as much milk or cream as will make the batter of the consistency of poimd- cake batter. Butter some small tins, three parts fill thorn with the mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven. The yolks of the eggs may of course be used for other purposes. Time to bake the cakes, according to size. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. for this quantity. White Fish and Sauce.—Take three pints of veal stock; put it into a saucepan with the heads and fins of five haddocks, four onions, a bunch of pai-sley, three inches of thin lemon- rind, and a little salt and cayenne. Simmer the liquor for an hour, strain it, and put with it a dessert-spoonful of strained lomon-jiiice and a large wine-glassful of light wine. IVIince the flesh of a lobster or crab. Thicken the sauce with a little white thickening, skim carefully, add a little cream and, if Uked, the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and stir the mince into it. Boil the haddocks, put them on a dish, garnish with forcemeat balls, and pour the sauce over them. The forcemeat may be made as follows:—Tear the flesh of a small boiled haddock into flakes. Mix with it an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, and add a small proportion of chopped parsley. Rub a httle butter into the mixture, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Bind it together with egg, form it into balls, and fry these in hot fat to a light brown colour. Time, altogether, two hours. White Kidney Bean.—The haricot blanc, or white kidney bean, deserves to be introduced more generally into our kitchens. There are various methods of dressing these beans, but the best is to have them softened in the gravy of a leg of mutton ; they are then a good substitute for potatoes. They are nearly as good dressed with oil or butter, and Napoleon was exceedingly fond of them dressed as a salad. Of course we allude here to the bean which, in full maturity, is taken from the pod, and eaten in winter. In England we eat the pod itself (in summer) split, and served with roast mutton and venison. The mature bean, however, makes an excellent dish. White Kidney Beans (a la Lyon- naise).—Cut a few onions into dice, and fry them in a little butter till they are of a light- brown colour; then add two spoonfuls of Spanish sauce. Let the onions be well done; season them with pepper and salt; drain the beans that have been done as above, then throw them into the sauce, and serve up hot. If you have no Spanish sauce, when you have fried the onions, add a spoonful of fine flour, and rnoisten with good grav)% or broth, and a little glaze; then boil very well, and put the beans in as directed. This manner is for entre- mets, 'and they are dressed the same to put under a leg of mutton roasted, or a quarter of mutton h. la Lyonnaise. Wliite Kidney Beans (a la Maitre d'Hotel.—White beans, when fresh, must be put into boiling water; but if dry, they must be soaked for an hour in cold water before being boiled. Then boil them in cold water, and replenish with cold water also, which makes the rind or coat tender. White beans must be well done before being dressed a la maitre d'hotel, which is done as follows:— Put in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little parsley chopped very fine, and some pepper and salt, over which lay the beans