( 665 ) PRO tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. Turn it out before serving, and garnish with apri- cot or strawbeiTy jam. Thas pudding may be served either hot or cold. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Princes' Sauce for Broiled Fish and Salads.—Take a smaU handful of tar- ragon-leaves, bumet, chervil, and chives. Einse them, tlirow them into boiling water, and let them boU gently for a few minutes; pour oflE the water, and squeeze them in a cloth. Put them in a mortar with three anchovies which have been washed, dried, and freed from bone and skin, the yoDis of three hard-boiled eggs, a dessert- spoonful of dry miistard, and a dessert-spoonful of capers. Put these ingredients in a mortar, pound them well, and add very gradually two raw yolks of eggs, a quarter of a prut of salad-oU, and a quai-ter of a pint of tarragon vinegar. Eub the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for use. Sufficient for a little more than half a pint. Princes' Soup. — Take half a dozen turnips, and with a vegetable cutter cut them into small balls the size of a marble. Put them iato a stewpan with as much clear veal stock as will cover them, and let them simmer till tender; then pour over them a pint and a half of additional stock, clear and bright, let it boU, and pour it into the tureen. Cut a slice or two from a stale loaf less than a quarter of an inch thick. Have these cut in rounds about three- quarters of an inch in diameter. Throw them iato a saute pan with about an ounce of but- ter, and shake them over the fire till they are brightly browned. Drain from the fat, and place them on blotting-paper to absorb the grease. Send them to table with the soup, and serve the crusts either on a separate dish or in the tureen. Time, an hour and a half. Probable cost of turnips, 4d. to 6d. a bunch. Sufficient for three or four persons. Properties, Nutritive, &c., of Food. —Several substances go to constitute the bodies of men and animals. Some of these substances from their containing nitrogen are called nitro- genous, others being destitute of that principle are termed non-nitrogenous; besides these there are mineral constituents, and water. Of the nitrogenous substances of the animal body, the chief are—fibrine, met with in the bone and muscle; albumen and globtdine, found in the blood; and gelatine, in the bones, tendons, and ligaments. The principal non-nitrogenous constituent is fat. Vegetables have a composition in the main resembling that of animals. They also contain nitrogenous substances, though usually in smaller amounts, and fat in them is represented xor the most part by starch and sugar. In some exceptional cases, however—in the seeds, for example, of various plants—fat or oil is met with. "The nitrogenous elements of the human body," says the author of a valuable article on this subject in *' Food, Water, and Air," " are capable, under some circumstances, of furnishing both fat and sugar; thus, there is evidence to show that the fatty part of milk and the sugar of diabetes are thence derived, at least to some extent. Again, starch and sugar are sometimes transfonned into fat, but the greater part of the fat of the body is derived from that contained in the food. " Notwithstanding this partial and occasional formation of fat from the nitrogenous, starchy, and saccharine elements of the food, yet each separate class is needed to sustain the body in a state of health. Thus, perfect health cannot be maiutained for any length of time on nitro- genous food alone, even with water and the mineral constituents; and although it may be supported for a longer period on such food combined with fat, yet, for perfect health, the albuminates, fat, and the C£irbo-hydrates, as sugar and starch, are all necessary, though how the latter act in nutrition is not yet fully understood, since they do not enter into the composition of the tissues like the others. Further, it should be clearly understood that excess of lean meat increases the oxidation of the fat, thus tending to the reduction of obesity; excess of the carbo-hydrates acts in the same way. " Now, these several nitrogenous and non- nitrogenous constituents of the food are con- stantly imdergoing change and destruction in ministering to the several necessities of the living animal organisation—as the growth, substance, and waste of the body, its heat, electricity, and muscular force ; and hence the necessity for a frequent supply of food. " The mineral constituents of the body are not less aecessary than the albuminates, fat, and the carbo-hydrates, and equally require to be renewed in the food consumed. Thus, sulphur and phosphorus are constantly present, com- bined chiefly with the albuminates. Phosphate of lime is found principally in the bones, teeth, and ceUs and tissues; phosphate of potash in the tissues and cells ;• chloride of sodium in the liquids; iron in the Iblood; and, lastly, carbonic acid, lactic, tartaric, acetic, and some other acids, which are converted in the system into carbonic acid, are requisite to maintain the alkalinity of the body, the loss of which gives rise to scurvy. "Again, the imbibition of a large quantity of water daily is likewise a necessity, in order to endow many of the constituents of the food —especially the albuminates — with certain physical properties, to render them plastic, soluble, or the more readily reducible to a state of solution ; thus aiding absorption, nutrition, and elimination." There is thus, we see, between the composition of the body and the food consumed, whether animal or vegetable, the closest possible re- semblance. Having now seen what kinds of food are needed to keep the body in health, we come to look at the quantities required. The quantities . ^ course vary according to age, weight, and mu.,:''lar exertion, but it has been determined, by numerous independent inquiries, that the food daily consumed by an adult man of average weight—140 pounds—in moderate work, should contain about the follo^nng quantities of the several classes of food, the figures given being