( 1125 ) WIL with the liquid a little salt, cloves, peppercorns, and other spices. The mai-inade should con- tinue cooking at least twenty-five minutes. Sometimes a little water is mixed with the vinegar, in order to mitigate its pungency. Wild Boar's Head.—Under the Nor- man kings the wild boar's head was considered a noble dish, worthy of the sovereign's table. This, we are told, was brought to the king's table with the trumpeters sounding their trumpets before it in procession. " For," says Holinshed, " upon the day of coronation (of young Henry) King Henry II., his father, served him at table, bringing up the bore's head with trumpets afore it, according to the ancient manner." Wild Boar's Head (superlative re- cipe).—Remove the hair, snout, and bones from a boar's head, and take off the ears. Si)rinkle a little salt upon it, and put it into a me;it pickle for three or four hours. Meantime, take the white part of the flesh of four young rabbits, and an equal weight of tongue, boiled fat bacon, and peeled truffles. Cut all into one- inch dice, and mix thoroughly. Take the remainder of the rabbit flesh free from skin and gristle, and make forcemeat of it, by chop- ping it up with four pounds of veal and four pounds of fat bacon, and seasoning it rather highly. Drain the head, wipe it with a soft cloth, sprinkle mixed spices upon it without salt, and cover with layers of forcemeat, intermixed with the truffles, rabbit, &c. Form the head into shape, wrap it in a cloth, and put it into a stewpan. Pour over it some good nicely-flavoured stock to which a bottle of madeira or sherry has been added, and let it stew gently till done enough. Take it up, drain it, remove the cloth, wrap the head in a fresh cloth, and, beginning at the snout, bind it round and round Avith tape. Leave it until quite cold, remove the tape and the cloth, put it in the oven for a minute, and wipe the fat from the surface. Trim the back part of the head neatly. Fasten the ears in their places with small skewers; they should, mean- time, have been boiled separately, but not long enough to cause them to lose their shape. Hide the skewers with lard and mutton suet, and rub the head all over till it is black and shiny with a little lard mixed with some very clean soot. Cut out a piece of the skin in the shape of a shield between the eyes, cover the place with lard, and decorate it with a crest or a monogram, or even a few flowers. Stick the tu.sks, remodelled with fat, in their places, and fill the eyes with white of egg and a little piece of beetroot. Surround the head with a wreath of flowers, place it on a dish covered with a napkin, or on a stand, garnish with jelly, and servo. The skin should bo removed before the head is carved. Time to boil the head, five hours or more. Probable cost, very uncertain. Wild Boar, To give Pork the Fla- vour of.—Steep the pork with cloves, garlic, bay-leaf, shallots, juniper-berries, thyme, mint, and vinegar. Wild Duck, Fillets of, with Truffles.—Fry the slices of duck in butter till they are lightly browned. Put them into a clean saucepan, pour the sauce over, and add truffles pared and cut into slices. Let them simmer very gently for five minutes, stir a table- sponfulof lemon-jnice into the gravy, and let it simmer five minutes longer. Take the slices of duck up carefully, arrange them neatly on a dish, pour the gravy round them, and serve very hot. Time, about ten minutes to simmer the fillets in the sauce. Probable cost of wild ducks, 48. to 5s. per pair. Sufficient for a dish. Wild Duck, FUlets of, with Truffles (another way).—Clean two wild ducks, and cut off the flesh from the breasts and sides in neat slices. Put the carcases and giblets of the birds into a saucepan with a thick slice of fresh butter rolled in flour, and add half a dozen mushrooms and two shallots finely minced, the parings of two ounces of truffles, and a little salt, cayenne, and pounded mace. Shake the saucepan over the fire for a few minutes. Pour in a gill of good stock, stew the sauce till strong and well-flavoured, then add a large glass of claret. Fry the slices of duck in butter, drain and simmer gently in the sauce till tender. WrCD DUCK. Wild Duck, Roast.—The breast is the dainty morsel. Stuff the duck with crumb of bread soaked in port or claret. Truss it securely, rub it over with the liver, flour it, put it down to a clear brisk fire, and baste constantly. Let the spit turn very rapidly. When the bird is sufficiently roasted (and it is generally pre- ferred underdressed), take it up, put it on a dish, without gravy, with an uncut lemon on either side of it, and with wild duck gravy in a tureen. The carver will frequently cut a lemon in halves, put salt on one side and cayenne on the other, then score the breast of the duck deeply, squeeze the two lemons together over it, and pour a glassful of port upon it. Time to roast the duck, fifteen to twenty-five minutes. Probable cost, 4s. to 5s. per pair. .."^ild Ducks. — Notwithstanding the slightly fishy flavour of the flesh, wild duck is highly esteemed by epicures. It is trussed like a tame duck, with the feet left on and turned close to the body. It is often said that