strp sua ( 939 ) hard, wipe it dry with a soft cloth, wrap it in paper, put it in a linen bag, and hang it in a cool dry place. Scrape it when it is wanted for use. Fresh suet will keep for several days if it is chopped fine with all the veiny pieces re- moved, then put into a jar entirely covered with flour, and kept in a cool place. Suffolk-bang Cheese.—There are cases in which dairy-fai'mcrs skim the milk before they begin to make cheese. TheSe cheeses are remarkable for their hardness, because caseine, independently of the butter, is an exceedingly liard substance; and these cheeses are sometimes brought into the market, and they are so hard that they are the subject of many a joke. Of such are the Suffolk-bang cheeses made by frugal housewives in that county, who first take the butter and send it to market, and then make their cheese. It is said of it in derision that " dogs bark at it, pigs gTunt at it, but neither of them can bite it." Suffolk Buns.—Rub four ounces of lard into a pound of floui-; add a spoonful of salt, two tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, three table-spoonfuls of sugar, and three table- spoonfuls of currants or caraway-seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly; whisk two eggs and stir them into the mixture, to make a smooth firm paste. A little milk may be added if necessary. Roll the paste out to the thickness of an inch. Stamp it in rounds, and bake these on tins in a gentle oven. If preferred, ground rice and butter may be used instead of flour and lard. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Suffolk Dumplings.—^lix some bread dough lightly with millc instead of water; let it rise before the fire for an hour. Have ready a saucepan of fast-boiling water. Divide the dough into balls the size of an orange, throw them into the water, and boil them quickly until done enough. When a fork stuck to the centre of them comes out quite clean they are done enough. Serve at once. When eating the dumplings do not cut them with a knife, but tear them apart with a fork and spoon. Send butter and sugar, and lemon-juice, or treacle, to table with them. Time to boil, twenty minutes. Sufiicient, allow one for each person. Suffolk Dumplings {see Hard or Suffolk Dumplings). Sugar, Barley.-Tkke any quantity of clarified sugar in that state that on dipping the finger into the pan the sugar which adheres to it will break with a slight noise; this is called crackling. When the sugar is near this, put in .two or three drops of lemon-juice or a little vinegar to prevent its graining. When it has come to the crack, take it off instantly, and dip the pan into cold water to prevent its burning; let it stand a little, and then pour it on a marble which must have been previously rubbed with oil. Cut the sugar into small pieces, when it will be ready for use. One drop of citron will flavour a considerable quantity. Sugar Biscuits.—No. I. Beat a pound of fresh butter to cream. Add a pound of dow- dered and sifted sugar and a pound of dried flour, and any flavouring that may be preferred. Make the mixture into paste by stirring milk or cream into it; roll it out very thin, stamp it into rounds or squares; prick these with a fork, and bake on buttered tins in a well-heated oven. No. 2. Take four eggs, with an equal weight of finely-pounded sugar and half the weight of dried flour. Break the eggs, and put the yolks and the whites into separate bowls. Beat the yolks and the sugar together for half an hour; add the flour with any flavouring that may be chosen, and when the mixture is quite smooth add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Drop the biscuits in knobs upon sheets of buttered paper, sift sugar upon them, and bake in a quick oven. No. 3. Put half a pint of milk into a bowl, and stir into it as much flour as will form a thick batter. Add a spoonful of salt and a gill of yeast, and set the sponge on the hearth to rise. This should be done in the evening. Next morning dissolve without heating two ounces of butter. Add this to the sponge, and knead in as much flour as will form a dough and a little powdered white sugar. Let the dough rise before the fire till it is quite light; divide it into biscuits, handling it as lightly as possible, and put these into buttered tins. Let them rise again for a short time, and bake them in a brisk oven. When they are done enough, brush them over with a syrup of sugar and water, and sift powdered sugar upon them. Sugar Boiled from Syrup to Cara- mel.—There are several degrees in boiling sugar from clarified syrup to caramel. The process requires not only care but an experience which can, perhaps, only be expected from a confectioner. Recipes are given for boiling sugar to the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth degrees. These are the principal gradations, and they are further divided by professional persons. When great nicety is required, the condition of the sugar can be best ascertained by a saccharometer, which is an instrument con- structed for the purpose of determining the exact condition of preparations of this nature. The finest sugar only should be used in confec- tionery. It is reaUy the most economical, as common sugar wastes much more when it is being clarified. Suffar, to Clarify.—Break the sugar into large lumps, and put it into a delicately-clean pre- serving-pan. Allow a pint of water to each pound if it is for syrup; if for candying less than half that quantity will be sufficient. The white of one egg will also be required for twelve pounds of sugar if it is refined; for six pounds if it is coarse. Beat the white of egg lightly; stir it into the water, and pour the mixture upon the sugar. Let it stand until dissolved; then stir it well, and put it upon a gentle fire. Do not disturb it after the ^cum begins to form. Let it boil for five minutes; take it from the fire, let it stand for two minutes, and carefully remove all the scum. Set it on the fire again, and when it is about to boil up throw in a little cold water, which has been reserved for the purpose from the quantity originally measured. Boil till the scum forms again; draw it from the fire, let it settle, then skim it as before, and repeat this operation till