( 1044 ) VEA VEA closely, lind lot its contents simmer gently over a slow tiro till tho tiavour of the inf^a-cdionts in extriicted. Add a quiirtor of a ])int of rich white sauce, and add the well-beaten yolks of two e{?j,'s. 8tir tlio sauce over a gentle lire till it begins to thicken, then strain it oif for use. Trim tho cutlets, flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and fry on both aides to a light brown. They will reiiiure about twelve minutes. Let them get cold, then spread a coating of tho Russian sauce upon one side of each. Brush them over with egg, and sprinkle u\)on them fried bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan. Place them side by side in a single layer in a buttered baking-dish, and a few minutes before they are to be served heat them in a brisk oven. Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, pour a little tomato sauce into the centre, and servo very hot. Any kind of di-essed vegetable may be served as an accompaniment. Time to heat the cutlets, about ten minutes. Veal Cutlets, Stewed.—Cut a piece of the fillet into three parts, and trim from them all the skin. Stew all the ti'immings with carrot and onions to make a light gravy, then add a little broth or warm water ; add spice if approved, put in the pieces of veal, and stow them for two hours. Thicken the gravy, and pour it over the cutlets. Veal Cutlets, with Maitre d'Hotel Butter.—For one pound of cutlets prepare maitre d'hotel butter as follows :—"Wash and pick a bunch of parsley, chop small, wrap it in the comer of a cloth, dip it in cold spring water, and wi'ing the moisture from it. Put it into a basin with its bulk in fresh butter, a few drops of strained lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Work it with, the point of a knife till the butter is like cream, and be very careful to keep the butter in a cool place, for if melted it will be oily. Trim and broil some veal cutlets in the usual way {see Veal Cutlets, Broiled, Plain). Put the butter on a dish, place the cutlets upon it, and serve very hot. Veal Cutlets, with Mushrooms.— Take a shce or more of veal for cutlets from the fillet, and for every pound of veal allow a handful of mushrooms. Cleanse and trim them, and put them into a saucepan with a table- spoonfid. of lemon-juice, a table-spoonful of water, and a pinch of salt for one pound of mushrooms. Shake them in the liquor for a few minutes, then add a slice of fresh butter, put them on a clear fire, and let them re- main for five minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally. Turn them into a dish, cover closely, and leave them till wanted. Divide the veal into neat cutlets of a round or heart shape. Sprinkle a little pejiper and salt upon them, and either dredge them with flour or egg and bread-crumb them, and frj' them in butter or fat till they are equally and brightly browned. Put them on a plate, and keep them hot. Drain off half tho fat in tho i)an, and mix a table-spoonful of flour smoothly witli the remainder. Moisten gradually with a small tea-cupful of boiling stock or water, add the prepared mushrooms and a table-spoonful of ketchup. Let the sauco boil gently for three or four minutes. Put the fried cutlets on a dish allernately with slices of fried bacon or ham; place the mushrooms round, pour tho sauco' over all, and serve. Time to fry he cutlets, twelve to fifteen minutes. Veal Cutlets with SorreL - Take some cutlets of an even thickness from the best end of a nock of veal, trim them in the usual way, and fry in a little butter till tliey are lightly browned on both sides. Drain them, put them into a stewpan, pour over as much nicely-flavoured veal gravy as will cover them, and lot them simmer gently till done enough. A glassful of light wine may be added if Hked. Dish the cutlets in a circle, put some soirel puree into the centre of the dish, and serve the cutlets with the giavy in which they were stewed in a tureen. The puree may be prepared as follows :—Wash a peck of fresh green sorrel in plenty of water, and put it into a stewpan with a pint of water and a pinch of salt. Stir it over the fire for a quarter of an hour or until dissolved, then drain the water from it. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and mix two ounces of flour smoothly with it. Stir it over the fire for three minutes. Moisten with a pint of gravy, add the sorrel and a little pepper and salt, and stir the mixtui-e over the fire for twenty minutes. Rub it through a hair sieve, make the puree hot, and it will be ready for use. Veal Cutlets without Bone (London fashion). — Properly speaking, these cutlets ought to be made from the fleshy part of the neck, which has been taken out whole so as to form a sausage-shaped roll, and then cut in slices the third of an inch thick. Those who object to this may use a cutlet taken from the fillet instead. Divide the meat into neat shces. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle finely- grated and savoury bread-crumbs upon them, or, if preferred, omit the egg and bread-crumbs, and simply dredge flour upon them, and fry them in butter or lard till they are Ughtly brown fed on both sides. Toast separately as many slices of bacon as there are cutlets. AiTange the cutlets and the bacon alternately in a circle round a hot dish, and pour into the centre a sauce prepared as follows:—Put a quarter of a pint of brown sauce into a sauce- pan. Let it boil, then stir into it a table-spoon- ful of ketchup, a glassful of sherry or madeira, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Stir the sauce over the fire for a minute, and it will be ready for serving. When brown thickening is not at hand a Uttle may be made by kneading together equal pro- portions of butter and flour, then sturing the imste quickly over a slow fire for three minutes, and moistening it with stock. If preferred, good brown mushroom sauce may be used in- stead. Time to fry the cutlets, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Is. to Is, 2d. per poimd. Veal, Fillet of.—Tho fillet is one of tho prime joints of veal. It is taken from tho leg above the knuckle. The French divide it into three parts—the fat fleshy piece inside the thigh to which tiie u ldiT i.snttrtohod in a cow-