WHI WHO ( 1122 ) half-boilod, tm-n the fish; when done enough, take thoni out. Add a piece of butter rolled in flour to the suuco, lot it tluckeu, and serve the fish upon it with the juice of u lemon. Whiting with Sweet Herbs,—Clean, wash, and diy five largo whitiugb, fill the iusides with quenelles of whiting, and lay thera in a kettle on a strainer well buttered; cover them with eight ounces of fresh butter in which you have mingled salt, popper, and grated nut- meg sufficient for their seasoning. Add two pottles of chopped mushrooms, two spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a small shallot chopped and blanched, the juice of a lemon, and haLE a pint of chablis wine. Half an hour before serving, make them boil, moistening them from time to time with their liquor; then make them simmer gently with a little fire above and below. When ready to serve, di-ain and dish them; pour their liquor over them, and send to table. Whiting with White-Wine Sauce. —Cleanse, scrape, and dry two full-sized whitings, and score them on both sides to the depth of a quarter of an inch with a sharp knife. Season with pepper and salt, and pour over them as much white wine as will cover them. Place them in the oven, and bake gently till done enough. Knead together in a saucepan over the fire an ounce of butter and an ounce of flour. When the paste is quite smooth, moisten with the third of a pint of water, let it boil, and add the liquor from the baking-dish and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Take it from the fire, stir into it until dissolved half an ounce of fresh butter, pour it over the fish, and serve. Time to bake the whitings, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Whole-meal Bread.—Brown, composi- tion, or whole-flour bread is made from the ground but undressed wheat, and therefore con- tains the bran as well as the flour. Some years ago it was suggested that as the bran contained more nitrogenised matter than the flour, the whole meal must be more nutritious than the finer flonr alone. But that opinion is now considerably modified, for while it is true that the whole meal (bran and fine flour) contains chemically more nutritive matter than the flne flour alone, yet the gritty particles that are present in the former cause an unnatural irrita- tion in the alimentary canal, and lead to a quicker evacuation of the but partially digested and absorbed food. This explains why brown bread possesses laxative properties, and why labourers fed on it consider that it makes them hungry soon again: they feel that it does not last in the stomach, and consequently think there is little nourishment in it. ' Wholemeal Breadj to Bake.—" This laread," says Miss Acton, "is composed of wheat ,^ound into meal, and used without any portion —even the bran—being taken from it; and it is highly recommended by some of the first scien- tific men of the present day as containing a larger amount of nourishment, and being more easy pf digestion than that which ia made with fine flour only, because it is now ascertained that the bran (which was fcjrmerly considered as altogether unfit for food) contains in reality moiv (/luten, or nutriment of the best kind, than any other part of the corn; and it is stated by a very superior writer that it possesses also a peculiar kind of fonnent which has the property of dissolving the Ijread or flour with which it is mixed, and rendering it more easily diges- tible in the stomach. He adds, * To this quality of bran, as well as to the nouiishment it yields, are to be ascribed some of the wholesome quali- ties which many persons have recognised in whole-meal bread.' Now it will be seen that very great advantages would attend the general use of the wheat merely reduced by grinding to a proper state for being converted easily into bread, which is more strengthening in its nature than any other, and therefore of more value to those whose toil is heavy and exhaust- ing ; and which, from its digestible character, is also well suited to persons of sedentary habits and to invalids. In the ordinaiy processes which the com undergoes in separating its various parts there is always considerable loss, and the consumption of wheat in the country would be naaterially lessened if the loss were in a great measure avoided by the adoption of whole-meal bread. There would soon be a per- ceptible difference if a flrMn of it only were consumed in every family which is at present supplied entirely with that made with fine wheaten flom*. After a time it would be pre- ferred by the eaters generally to white bread, and the poorer classes of the people, who now reject with disdain every form of brown bread, would gradually lose this prejudice against it if they saw it commonly adopted for consump- tion by the wealthy. To derive from whole- meal bread all the advantages whic^ it -will undoubtedly yield, the following points should be observed: The com should not be damped before it is ground, and it should lie over for some weeks, and be kept very dry after the grinding before it is converted into bread. Quite at first it will be well to mix a certain portion of flour with it for persons who are not in strong health, or who are unaccustomed to eat brown bread, as it wiU otherwise occasion a little irritation in the stomach for a few days; but this is easily avoided by using it only in part for a time, and by diminishing at each baking the proportion of flour added to it. In making dough with the whole meal, it will be seen that it absorbs more hquid than flour does, and requires rather more yeast to render it light, or a longer time to rise. It should not be made very stiff, or it will be too dry after it i£ baked, yet it should always be workable, and not stick to the hands. If well managed, its flavour wiU be peculiarly sweet and agreeable. It is prepared in precisely the same manner as white bread. Whole meal, one gallon; good flour, one gallon; fresh German yeast, two ounces and a half, or weU-washed beer yeast, two table-spoonfuls ; salt, four to six spoonfuls, or one ounce to one and a half; wann water, or milk and water, full three quarts To rise from one hour to one hour and a halt the ftrst time, or until it is evidently quite hght; the second time about an hour. To be well baked