( 1019 ) TUB TUB by itself, after the manner you like; except you sopai-ato the lights and heart from the wilipash, and then always servo them together in one dish. Take care to strain the soup, and servo it in a tureen or china bowl. The whole is placed on the table in dishes arranged as follows:— Calipee. Lights, &c. I Soup. I Fins. Calipash. N.B.—In the West Indies they sometimes souse the fins and eat them cold, omit the liver, and only send to table the calipee, calipash, and soup. The foregoing description applies to a turtle of about sixty pounds weight. Turtle Sauce (to serve with calf's head). —Thicken a pint of beef or veal gravy with a tea-spoonful of brown thickening, and flavour it with two table-spoonfuls of turtle store sauce and half a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovy. Let it boil, and it will be ready for serving. If the store sauce is not at hand, mince a shallot finely, and put it into the thickened gravy with "half a tea-spoonful of essence of auchovy, three or four leaves of fresh basil, the strained juice and thinly-cut rind of half a lemon, a pinch of cayenne, and a glassful of sherry. Simmer the sauce gently for a few minutes till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain thi-ough a fine sieve, and it wiU be ready for serving. Time to simmer the sauce, five or six minutes. Sufficient for eight or nine people. Turtle Soup.—Before making turtle soup it is necessary to have several large pans and plenty of hot water ready for use. Take a turtle weighing about fifty pounds. Cut off the head, hang it up by the hind fins, and let it di-aiu aU night. Cut off the fins at the joints, and divide the calipash or upper shell from the calipee or lower shoU by pressing hea\'ily upon it and cutting round it about the depth of two inches. Let the water, &c., di-ain from it, and remove and throw away the intestines, caref uUy preserving, however, any fat that may be near them. Cut the flesh off along the spine, and let the knife slope towards the bones for fear of breaking the gall, which must on no account be allowed to touch the flesh, and which should be thrown quite away as soon as it is found. Cut oft' all the flesh from the members and let them drain. In cutting up the turtle remember to keep the green fat separate from the rest that its colour may be preserved. It is most highly prized by epicures. Throw the heart, lights, liver, and kidney into cold water. Put the calipash and calipee, the hc«,d and the feet, into a large vessel of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for a few minutes until the tins can bo peeled and the shoU scraped. Boil the back and the breast a little longer till the bones can be taken out. Cut out the soft moat, divide it into pieces an inch square, and place these in a single layer between two dishes to cool. Put the heart, liver, lights, and kidneys with the bones into a fresh saucepan, pour over them the stock in which the moat was blanched, and let thorn stow gentlv for throe hours. Afterwards pour the liquor off and let it cool. Take a large clean saucepan. Put into it two pounds of lean ham cut small, twelve pounds of leg of veal broken up, and over these the tins, the head, and the inside flesh of the tmile. Pour over them some good stock, and let them simmer gently imtil the sauce is very much reduced. Push a skewer into the thick part of the meat, and when blood no longer exudes from the flesh add the liquor which was poured off, and sim- mer all gently together until the meat is tender. Take it out, and set it aside. When the liquor from the bones is put into the stock the follow- ing ingredients may also be added.—Two large handfuls of parsley, a large bunch of mixed sweet herbs—thyme, marjoram, basil, and savory, an onion stuck with four cloves, three bay-leaves, and halt" a dozen mushrooms if ob- tainable. Simmer the soup till it is pleasantly flavoured, strain it, set it aside, or, if preferred, rub the vegetables through a sieve. Dissolve half a pound of butter in a stewpan. Mix four table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with it, and beat it quickly with the back of a wooden spoon over the fire until it is brightly browned. Add the liquor gradually, and let the soup boU. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and carefully remove the fat, oil, and white scum which rise to the surface. Put the pieces of meat, which were put aside to cool, into the soup, let them simmer gently for an hour, and continue to remove the scum as it rises. Take four table-spoonfuls of parsley, four table- spoonfuls of minced shallot, one table-spoonful each of thyme, marjoram, savory, and sweet basil, a whole nutmeg grated, a blade of mace, a dozen allspice, four cloves, a table-spoonful of pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Put these seasoning ingredients into a delicately- clean saucepan with four ounces of fresh butter, and let them simmer gently until the butter is dissolved, add a small lump of sugar, a pint or two of good madeira, and a little stock, and sinuner them gently for an hour. Rub them through a fine sieve, and add the seasoning liquor to the soup. Let it boil again until no more scum rises. Put the quenelles, which are used as substitutes for turtles' eggs, into the soup ten minutes before serving, and add the strained juice of one or two lemons just before sending the soup to table. When once turtle soup is made it should not be boiled in order to heat it, as this gives it a strong taste, but it should be warmed in a bain marie. To make the quenelles for the soup, see Turtle Soup, Forcemeat Quenelles for. Time, several hours. Turtle soup should always be made the day before it is wanted. Probable cost, £1 Is. per quart. Sufficient, one quart for six or seven persons. Turtle Soup, Forcemeat Quenelles for.—Take a quarter of a pound of bread- crumbs, soak them in milk for a short time, and afterwards wring them in a cloth to squeeze the moistiu'e from them. Take a quarter of a pound of lean veal from the filUst, scrape it into pieces with a knifo, pound it in a marble mortar till it is quite smooth, arid rub it through a sieve. Mix it with the bri^ad-crumlis, and add Imlf an ounce of butter, a s.ilt-spoou-