( 793 ) SAL SAL T.owrv). Beat the volk of a raw egp;. Mix with it a pinch of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and, i,Tadually, three tca-spoonfuls of salad oil, a te'a-^spoonful of essence of anchovy, and two tea-spoonfuls of vinegar. Salad Dressing for Fish Salad.— Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs till smooth. Add a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, a tea-spoonful of sugar, half a tea-spoonful of s;\lt, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of white pepper, and two sardines from which the skin {ind bones have been removed, or instead of the sardines use a spoonful of bruised capers and a minced shallot. WTien these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, add very gradually two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, a table- spoonful of tan-agon vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Salad Dressing (Italian).—Take the skin and bones from an anchovy, pound the flesh well, and mix with it a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. Add very gradually four table-spoon- fuls of lucca oil, beat the sauce well, and add two tea-spoonfuls of garlic vinegar, two of chilli vinegar, and four of white-wine vinegar. When the sauce is smooth and thick like cream it is ready for serving. Salad Dressing without OU.—No. i. Mix a tea-spoonful of salt and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper with three table-spoonfuls of thick sour cream. Beat well, and add a table- spoonful of vinegar. If liked, the rind of a fresh lemon may be rubbed upon sugar, and dissolved in the vinegar before it is mixed with the cream. No. 2. Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs till smooth. Add a spoonful of mixed mustard, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of white pepper, half a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne, and two table-spoonfuls of thick cream. When all these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add very gradually as much vinegar as wiU make the sauce of the consis- tency of cream. Salad, Every-day.—In warm weather cold meat sent to table with a good salad, and a little cucumber or pickle, often proves more acceptable than the most expensive joint if s^;rved hot. To make the salad, wash one or two lettuces, throw away the outer and decayed leaves, and wash the others, handling them as lightly as possible. Drain them, and dry them perfectly, first by shaking them in a colander or salad-basket, and afterwards by shaking them in a napkin held loosely by the four comers. When the napkin has absorbed all the moisture, shred the lettuce—with a silver knife if possible, liub the salad-bowl three or four times across with a clove of garlic, or with a slice of onion, nnd put in the shred lettuce. Mix thoroughly in the salad-spoon a salt-spoonful of salt, half a fi;ilt-spoonful of pepper, and a mustard-spoonful of mixed mustard. Sprinkle the seasoning over the salad, and work it well in. Pour upon it as much lucca oil as will cover it, and work this in; then add a tahle-spoonful of good vine- gar and, if it can bo had, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. The salad should not bo mixed till the momtmt of serving. If liked, slircd celery, a head of endive, small salad, watercress, sliced beetroot, sliced cucumber, sining radishes, and chopped grscn onions may be added to the salad. Time: Plenty of time must be given for drying the lettuce per- fectly, as the success of a salad depends in a great measure upon the lettuce being quite dry. Probable cost of moderate-sized salad, 8d. Salad, Flemish.—Cut ofE the heads and tails from two Dutch herrings, and divide them into slices of half an inch thick. Cut the fish slantwise, and place them in their natural posi- tion; add potatoes cut in squares, brussels sprouts, a few green onions, some celery, all boiled, and season with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Any pickled or dried fish may be used instead of herrings. Salad, French.—A French salad, strictly speaking, consists of one kind of salad only, washed, dried perfectly, torn into small pieces, and mixed lightly with salad dressing, If endive, small salad, watercress, &c., are mixed with the different kinds of lettuce, the salad loses its distinctive character as a French salad. Salad, Fruit. — Currants, strawberries, raspberries, peaches, apricots, plums, oranges, pine-apples, &c., may all be served as salads. The large fruit should be pared and sliced, the small fruit picked and arranged in a dish. Powdered sugar should then be sifted thickly over, together with a table-spoonful or two of spirit or any suitable liquor. Salad, German. — Throw a pound of sauer kraut into boiling water, and let it remain for five minutes; drain and cool it. Put the same weight of red pickled cabbage into cold water. Drain it, and shred finely with the sauer kraut. ISIix the two thoroughly, and add one ounce of grated horseradish, one table- spoonful of chopped chervil, and two half-boiled onions finely minced. Just before serving the salad, toss the whole lightly together with six table-spoonfuls of oil, a table-spoonful of vine- gar, and a little pepper and salt. Salad Herbs.—Speaking of plants used as salad. Dr. Lankester remarks:—" First there is the lettuce [Lactuca sativa). This plant is a cul- tivated variety of the wild lettuce [Lactuca virosa). It contains in its juice an active principle, which in large quantities exercises a narcotic influence on the human system. The watercress {Nas- turtium officinale). This plant grows -nnld in ditches and damp places in this country, and is also extensively cultivated in the neighbourhood of London. It contains a large quantity of mineral matter, and in some districts is found to contain iodine. The endive {Cichorium Endivla). This plant is probably a variety of the common chicory {Cichorium Intybus). It is cultivated extensively on the Continent, and its blanched leaves are eaten as a salad. It can be obtained in the winter. It has a slightly bitter taste, and acts as a tonic on the system. Celerj' is the Apium graveolens. When wild this plant con- tains an acrid principle, which is poisonous, but by culture its stalks are blanched, and it then becomes an agreeable and valuable article of food. The garden-cress is the Lcpid'mm sativum. This plant is not a native of Great Britain, but it is easily cultivated and extensively used as an