( 867 ) SHB Score the edges with a knife, and mark it on the top in any fanciful pattern. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for three or four persons. Shred Pie for Christmas.—Two cen- turies ago every well-to-do family partook of a shred pie, a most learned mixture of neats' tongues, chickens, eggs, sugar, raisins, &c. This pie was made at the season of Christmas only, and no modem dish is similar to it. The following is a well-tried and much-approved recipe, which has been handed down in the same family for generations:—"A pound of suet chopjied fine, a pound of raisins stoned, a poimd of ciu-rants cleaned dry, a pound of apples chopped fine, two or three eggs, all- spice beat very fine, and sugar to taste, a little salt, and as much brandy or wine as you like." A small piece of citron in each pie is an im- provement. Shrewsbury Buckwheat Cakes.— Mix a tea-cupful of good brewer's yeast with three pints of warm water; add half a tea- spoonful of salt, and stir in as much buckwheat meal as will make a thick batter. Cover the bowl, and set it in a warm place to rise. When it is so light that bubbles appear on the surface, butter a frying-pan and bake the cakes in it, like pancakes, over a clear fire. A ladleful of the batter wiU be sufficient for each cake. Butter the cakes while hot, and serve them piled high in the centre of a hot plate, each one with the right side up. The batter will need to rise three or four hours. Shrewsbury Cakes.—Sift one pound of powdered sugar into two pounds of flour; add a grated nutmeg, or a little powdered cinnamon, and an ounce of caraway-seeds. lifix aU tho- roughly, then beat in two eggs, the whites and yolks separately, and as much dissolved butter as will form a stiff paste. About eight ounces of butter wiU be enough. Eoli the pastry out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, cut it into round cakes, prick these, and bake on floured tins in a quick oven. If liked, a few currants can be used instead of seeds. Time to bake the cakes, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, lOd. per pound. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way).— Take one part of sifted sugar and three parts of flour, and to every pound of sugar add one grated nutmeg and three eggs. Mix well, and form these ingredients into a dough with melted butter and a little rose-water. 'Bake in the usual way. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way).— Take two pounds of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, and half a pound of butter Add to these ingredients four eggg, a little rose- water, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Beat them to a firm paste, roll the paste out thin cut it into cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way.)— Mix half a pound of butter, woll beaten like a cream, and the same weight of flour, one ess SIX o.mce.i .,f l^eateu and sifted loaf sugar, and half an ounce of caraway-seeds. Form these ingredients into a paste, roll out thin, and lay the cakes in sheets of tins. Bake in a slow oven. Shrewsbury Cakes (another way).— Take one pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of Lisbon sugar, and two eggs. Mix tkese ingredients, and form them into a paste with a glassful of white wine. Roll out then, and cut into cakes with a wine-glass. Shrimp.—There are several varieties of shrimps, and amongst these the best known are the brown shrimp and the red shrimp. The brown shrimp is the more highly flavoured of the two. It keeps close to the shore, and even affects brackish waters. It is mostly caught by fishermen or women, who wade into the sea, and push a shrimp-net before them. The red shrimp, or rather the pale-pink shrimp, rarely attains to such a size as the brown shrimp does; it is slimmer in its proportions, and more delicate in flavour. It never enters brackish waters, but keeps well out to sea. It THE SHRIMP. is sometimes called the Yarmouth shrimp, from having been accidentally discovered in Great Yarmouth Roads by some boats employed in recovering lost anchors by a process called " sweeping." Two boats, at a certain distance from each other, proceed up and down the Roads, having a loose rope suspended between them, at the middle of which is fastened a large fish-basket or "swiU," partly laden with stones to sink it. By these means the place of the anchor at the bottom of the sea is ascertained, and it is then raised and brought to land. In particular states of the tide, it was found that the swill, when brought to the surface, was filled with an imusual species of shrimp. The hint was taken immediately, and the red shrimp fishery established. Shrimps form a common reUsh at the break- fast or tea table. When freshly boiled, they are excellent; stale, they are indigestible. Boiled shrimps which are clammy to the touch and exhale a pungent smeU, are not fresh, and should be discarded as comparatively worthless. « 'i^^ thought," says Dr. Doran, "that the prawn or shrimp was somehow necessary to the production of soles, acting, it was beheved, as a sort of nurse or foster-parent to the spawn. But this I suppose to be about as true as that soles always swim in pairs with three-pennyworth of shrimps behind them,' ready for sauce." Shrimp and Asparagus Sauce.-^ lake twenty-five asparagus, and cut them into short pieces; then boil them tiU tender in a