TAB ( 058 ) TAP ^or tho water or milk and water. Time to simmer, about three-quarters of an hour. Suf- ficient for one invalid. Tapioca, Grating.—Drop ton oimcos of tapioca into a stowpan with a quart of boiling milk. Add a slice of butter, a pinch of salt, sugar to taste, and tlie grated rind of a lemon. Boil, then simmer very gently, stirring all the time till tender. Pour tho tapioca out, and when cool mix four eggs with it. If the eggs are added when the mixture is too hot it will curdle. Turn into a plain mould, which has been buttered and lined with bread-crumbs. Bake in a gentle oven till brown on the top. Turn out and serve. Tapioca is an excellent and wholesome production, and very useful in families : it may be used in any sort of entremets, fiuch as gateau de tapioca, souffle, pudding, pot- age, &e., prepared in the same manner as rice. Tapioca Jelly.—Wash a quai-tei' of a pound of tapioca, and soak it in a pint of water for .some hours. Put it into a saucepan over .the tire with another pint of cold water and the thin rind of a lemon or an orange, and let it sinmier gently until quite clear and thick, and keep adding at intervals small quantities of boiling water to make up half a pint. Remove the lemon-rind, pour out the tapioca, sweeten it, add as much lemon-juice as is agreeable, and a little brandy or wine if liked. Pour the prepared tapioca into small ■damp moulds, and turn it out when cold and stiff. Tapioca jelly is very good eaten with preserved fruit and cream or milk. Time to isimmer, about one hour. Probable cost, 5d., •exclusive of the wine or brandy. SuflBcient for five or six persons. Tapioca Jelly (another way).—Take one pound of tapioca and six pints of water. Let the tapioca soak in the water all night; in the morning boil until quite clear and of a proper .consistence, then fiavoiir to taste. Tapioca Pudding, Baked. — Wash four table-spoonfuls of tapioca in water, then let it boil with a quart of milk and the thin rind of a lemon or an orange, or an inch of ■cinnamon. Pour it into a basin, let it get cold, sweeten it, and take out the peel. Beat it up with three eggs and an ounce of butter. Pour it into a buttered dish, and bake the pudding in a well-heated oven. The edge of the dish may be lined with puff paste or not. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. SuflBcient for five or six persons. Tapioca Pudding, Boiled.—Wash two iable-spooufuls of tapioca, and let it soak in a pint of milk for an hour. Put it into a sauce- pan with an ounce of butter, a table-spoonful of sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon or an orange, or any flavouring that may be preferred. Let it boil, then stir it over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour. Pour it out, remove the rind, and let the tapioca cool. Stir in with it the yolks of four and the whites of two well-beaten eggs. Pour tho pudding into a buttered mould, and boil or steam it until done enough. Let it stand in the mould for some minutes after it is taken up before turning it out. It will be necessary to handle it very I carefully, or it will break. Sift powdered I sugar thickly over it, and send a dish of cream I to table with it. The apjjearance of the pud- 1 ding will be improved if it is garnished with any kind of bright-coloured jelly or jam. Time to boil, an liour and a half. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Tapioca Pudding, French. — Take two ounces of tapioca, and boil it in half a pint of water until it begins to melt, then add half a pint of milk by degrees, and boil until the tapioca becomes very thick; add a well-boaton egg, sugar, and flavouring to taste, and bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. This preparation of tapioca is superior to any other, is nourishing, and suitable for delicate children. Tapioca Pudding, Simple. — Wash and drain a tea-cupful "of tapioca, and put it into a buttered baking-dish large enough to hold about three pints.. Sprinkle over it a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs, a little nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon-peel, and fill the dish with cold milk. Put in a piece of butter the size of a small nut, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When the sur- face of the pudding is covered with a brightly- browned skin it is done enough. Send sugar to table with the pudding. Time to bake, about two hours. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Tapioca Soup.—Take as much properly- seasoned clear cold stock as may be required, I and put it into the stewpan with an ounce of i well-washed tapioca to each pint of stock, j Bring the preparation gradually to the point of boiling, then simmer it gently until tender, I and stir it frequently to keep it from getting , into lumps. A white soup may be made by using veal stock, and adding a little boiling cream or milk to the soup just before serving. Time to simmer the tapioca, an hour or more from the time the soup boils. Probable cost, varying with the quality of the stock. Suf- ficient, a quart of soup for four or five persons. Tapioca Soup (another way).—Large- grained tapioca is the best for soup. Take as much tapioca as may be required, and soak it in cold water for a quarter of an hour. Drain it, and put it into a stewpan with as much cold stock as will cover it; let it boil, and after- wards simmer it gently until it is quite cleiir and tender. Stir the rest of the stock, already flavoured, into it, let it boil up, and serve immediately. Time to simmer the tapioca, from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Suf- ficient—an ounce of tapioca will thicken a pint of soup. Taro.—This is the South Sea Islanders' " staff of life." The taro plant is a species of arum, called by some botanists Jritiit rsculctituin though this is a vac:ue distinction, since there are others of this genus that produce edible roots. It is in its large tuberous root that the value of the taro lies: this root varies in size, according to the ground in which it grows. U is usually of several pounds" weight, though some roots are so large as with difficulty to bo squeeze 1 into a three-quart pot. In shape the