( 814 ) SAL soup of the consistency of thick cream. Season the soup with pepper, suit, and cayenne; throw in the tiakos of s.'ihnon that were sot aside, hit them got thoroughly hot without hoiling, and servo imuu'diately. No. 2. Take a pound and a half of fresh salmon, liaise the flesh froiu thi! hone, divide it into neat hllotH, and fry ihmo in hot fat till they are done enough. Put a quart of fish or veal stock into a stowpan with the heart of a lettuce finely shred and half a pint of young green peas. Simmer all gently for an hour, then ruh the soup through a fine hair sieve. Put it hack into the stewpan, season with salt and popper, put into it the fried fillets of salmon, and let them sinnner until they are heated through. Add another half pint of peas boiled separately, simmer all together for a few minutes, and serve. Time altogether, two hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. per pint when salmon is plentiful. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon, Soused.—Put say three pounds of cold di-cssed salmon into a deep dish. Put a pint of cold vinegar into a saucepan with half a pint of water. Add an inch of whole ginger, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, three cloA'es, a blade of mace, a pinch of cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Bring the liquor to the boil; let it boil for ten minutes, pour it out, and let it get cold. Strain it over the salmon, and let it remain in a cool place for several hours. Serve with a little of the pickle in the dish with it. Time to boil the pickle, ten minutes. Probable cost when salmon is plentiful, about 3s. 8d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Salmon, Soused (another way). -—See Salmon, Dried or Kippered, To Dress.—No. 4. Salmon, Spiced.—Take a pound and a half of salmon. Put it in a saucepan with a pint o2 good vinegar and the third of a pint of water, and add an ounce of cinnamon, an ounce of whole black pepper, and a little salt. Boil the salmon in this till it is done enough. Let it get cold; then lay it closely in an earthen pan, pour the pickle and spices over it, and cover it closely to exclude the air. Keep it in a cool place till wanted. Salmon Trout.—Salmon trout, though much resembling salmon in flavour and ap- pearance, are really not of the same species. These fish seldom exceed two to three pounds in weight, and frequently reach only to three- quarters of a pound. Sahnon trout is justly esteemed a gi-cat delicacy, and may be di-essed according to the methods recommended both for salmon and trout, though boiling is the least agreeable method of cooking it. Salmon Trout;, Choosing of.—A.n food the sfilmon trout is m evoi-y respect inferior to the salmon : its flesh is sometimes white, some- times red. When largo, it is white, and is little valued; hut when small, it is generally red, but not always : it is never so red as sal- mon. By examining the inside of the throat through the gills the colour of the throat may be seen. If very red the flesh will prove red; and this is the kind that is most prized. Salmon Trout, Stuffed and Baked. —Take a good-sized trout, weighing two to three pounds. Clean and scale it, handling it as little as possible, and fill it with fish forcemeat. Put it into a baking-dish, and pour a marinade, made witli a spoonful or two oi vinegar boiled with vegetables and spices to flavour it, underneath and round it; lay a good slice of butter broken, into little pieces here and there on the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. Baste frequently with the marinade. When the fish is done enough keep it hot a few minutes. Strain the li(juor in the dish, add some stock to it to make the quantity of sfiuce required, thicken this with flour and butter, season with a little anchovy, the squeeze of a lemon, and a pinch of cayenne. Skin the trout, strain the sauc<i over it, and serve. The forcemeat may be made as follows:—Take two ounces of finely- shred suet and two ounces of grated bread- crumbs ; mix with these a tea-spoonful each of parsley, thyme, and majoram, and add a large pinch of salt, a pinch each of powdered mace, pepper, and lemon-rind. Bind the forcemeat together with the yolk of an egg, and it will be ready for use. Time to bake the trout, twenty to thirty-five minutes, according to size. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. SALMON TRODT Salmon Trout with Truffles.—Tak( a salmon trout weighing about two pounds, and of firm flesh; scale it, and draw it by the gills: wash and wipe it inwardly. Take four fresli peeled truffles, chop them, and pound them in a mortar, adding to them the third of their bulk of softened bread-crumbs and the same quantity of butter. Season with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and fill the inside of the trout with thi;- preparation. Set the salmon trout on a buttered gratin-dish. Salt, baste with butter, and set it in a moderate oven to bake, basting often with butter. After twelve minutes, pour into the dish a small glassful of white wine and a few spoon- fuls of melted glaze; boil the liquid, and push the dish again into the oven. In a quarter of an hour the trout should be done enough; place it then on another dish. Dilute the fish stock with a Httle white wine, kt it boil, and thicken it with a piece of kneaded butter. Add two