I ( 798 ) SAL are hot through drain them, and Borvo with fried uipputti. Salmis of Game or Wild Fowl.—rut the birdadown to tho fire iin for ruiistiii^, and take them up when thoy uru Icaa than hall" done Cut them into neat pieces, and rouiovo tlio akin, fat, and smow from the logs, wings, and Lroasts. Place tho joints sido by side in a clean saucepan, cover them, and keep them in a cool place till wanted. Take a quarter of a pound of un- di'essed loan ham, mince it finely, put it into a well-tinned saucepan, and shako it over the lire for thi-ee or four minutes with a slice of fresh butter. Add to it a dozen button-mushrooms, a scraped carrot, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, three shallots (or more) finely minced, four cloves, two bay-leaves, a blado of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Mix these ingredients, and stir them over a gentle fire till the sides of the saucepan appear slightly coloured, dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and let it brown a little, then pour in gradually a pint of good veal stock and two glassfuls of sherry. Put in the bruised bodies of the birds, let the sauce boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side, and let its contents simmer gently until the sauce is smooth, thick, and pleasantly flavoured. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. Clear the sauce from fat, strain, pour it over the joints of game in the saucepan, let these heat in it veri/ slowly, and when the liquid is just about to boil, dish them. Pom- the sauce over the game, and garnish the dish with fried sippets. The salmis may be made less expensive by the omission of the mushrooms and wine. When moor fowl or black game are used, care should be taken to remove the bitter spongy substance from the body of the birds, if they have been well hung, or the flavour of the salmis will be spoilt. Time, an hour to an hour and a half to simmer the sauce. Salmis of Partridges, with Truflles. —Truss two or three partridges. Put them into a stewpan with butter and a few trim- mings of fat bacon; add the necks and gizzards, and fry them on a brisk fire for five or six minutes. Withdraw them on a moderate fire, cooking them with live embers on the lid; let them half cool, and cut each of them up into five pieces, trim the skin away, and place them in a stewpan. Fry in butter the livers of the partridges, with two chickens' livers, pound and pass them through a sieve. With the backs and trimmings of the partridges prepare a little gravy. Skim off tho fat, reduce it to half-glaze, and add to it three gills of brown sauce; let the sauce boil up, and remove it back to clarify; skim again, and pass it through a fine sieve. With this sauce dilute gradually the puree of liver, pour it over the pieces of partridge, which warm without allowing to boil, and dish up. On tho other hand, cut some bread croutons of round shape and halt an inch thick, make a circular incision on one side, fry thoin in butter, empty them of the crumb, and fill the void with salpiqon of trufllos cooked, with a little madeira and a little melted glaze. Mask the pfirtridiros with this sauce, and disn the croutons all rouna. Salmis, Plain.—Take a cold-dressed phea- sant or a couple of partridges from which little of tlio flesh has been cut. Divide it into neat joints free from skin, and lay these side by side in a Baucei)an. Put into another saucepan tho well-bruised bones and trimmings of the bird, a sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, six or eiglit peppercorm, a glassful of sherry, and an inch of lemon-rind, lioil for two minutes, then add a pint of stock and a spoonful of brown thickening. Simmer all gently together till the sauce is pleasantly flavoured, smooth, and of the consistency of cream. Strain it over the pieces of pheasant, and heat slowly. Warm all gently together till the sauce is on the point of boiling, then lift the jointed bird upon a dish, poui- the sauce over it, garnish with fried sippets, and serve. Time, one hour or more. Sufficient for eix or seven persons. Salmis Sauce.—This is a sauce for salmi of partridges, pheasants, &c. Cut four shallots and a carrot into large dice, some parsley-roots, a few bits of ham, a clove, two or three leaves of mace, the quarter of a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and a small bit of butter, with a few mushrooms. Put the whole into a stewpan over a gentle fire; let it fry till you perceive the stewpan is coloured all round. Then moisten with half a pint of madeira and a very small lump of sugar. Let it reduce to one-half. Put in six spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, and the trim- mings of the partridges. Let them stew for an hour on the corner of the stove. Skim the fat ofl:, taste whether the sauce be seasoned enough; strain it over the members, make it hot without boiling; dish the salmi, and reduce the sauce, which strain through a tamis. Then cover the salmi with the sauce. Salmis Sauce (another way).—Scrape the red part of a carrot, and put the pulp into a saucepan with a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, three or four pieces of bacon or blanched bacon-rind, three shallots chopped fine, and the bruised trimmings of the game to be used for the salmis. Add a sHce of fresh butter, or a table-spoonful of lucca oil, and stir the ingre- dients over the fire till they are lightly browned. Moisten them gradually with half a pint of good brown sauce, and a glassful of sherry and madeira. Stew all gently together till the sauce is very good, skim and strain it, season with pepper and salt, and it will be ready for the game. Time, one hour or more. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon.—The salmon, according to Izaak Walton, is the king of fresh-water fish. It is called a river fish, beaiuse it is gene- rally caught in rivers, and the river is .its birth-place; but the sea is its home and its pasture-ground, and to this it must return periodically to renew its strength or die. In fact, it inhabits fresh and salt water alternately, spending its winter in the sea and its summer in the river. Moreover, as the swallow returns to the roof or shed that gave it sliolter, so does tho sjilmon to the gravelly river's bed where it first saw the light. This fact has been repeatedly i.rovcd, anV. involves important consequences J