( 1029 ) VEA VEA Veal, Blanquette of, Made from I Fresh Meat. — Tuke from two to tlu-ee pouuds of the breast of veal. Cut it into pieces the size of a walnut, put these into a small saucepan, and pour upon them as much boiling stock or water as will cover them. Let the liquor boil up, and skim it. Thi-ow into it two onions each stuck with a clove, two carrots, and a large bunch of sweet herbs. Add a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer the meat gently for an hour. Drain it, and put it aside for a short time. Strain the gravy, thicken with white thicken- ing, and let it boil, stirring occasionally till it coats the spoon. Let it cool a minute, then beat the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, mix with them a spoonful of the gxavy, and add the rest gradually. Put the pieces of veal into a small saucepan, strain the gravy upon them, and let them remain in it gently simmering until they are heated through, but the sauce must not boil or it will curdle. Add a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley. Mix and serve. Time to simmer the veal, about an hour. Probable cost, breast of veal, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Blanquette of, with Cucum- bers.—Cut some cold veal into neat pieces about the size of a walnut and a quarter of an inch thick. Pare and quarter a large cucum- ber, and cut it into lengths of half an inch. Sprinkle a little salt upon these, and cover theiii with vinegar. Let them remain for half an hour. Drain them well, and dry them with a soft cloth. Dissolve a slice of fresh butter in a bright stewpan, and add a jjinch of gxated nutmeg and a small piece of sugar. Put in the slices of cucumbcn , and let them simmer gently tiU tender. Drain off the butter, pour | some white sauce upon the cucumber, add i the pieces of veal, and let all simmer gently together till the meat is quite hot. Place the veal on a dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish the dish with sippets. The white sauce should be made with nicely-seasoned veal stock made from the veal bones, and thickened with white thickening. It will be improved by stewing onions and mushrooms in it to flavour it, but it will be very good withoiit them. A little lemon-juice may be stirred in at the last /noment. Time to stew the cucumber in the butter, about half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, about Is. 6d. Veal, Blanquette of, with Mush- rooms. — Cut some cold dressed veal into pieces about an inch square and a quarter of an inch thick. Take a quarter of the bulk of the meat in button mushrooms, clean these with a piece of flannel and a little salt, and simrnfT them very gently with a slice of fresh butter till they are done enough. Put the pieces of veal in a saucepan, lay the stewed mushroooms upon them, and pour over all a little niccly-soasonnd veal stock thickened with a little piece of white thickening. Heat the preparation gently till it is on the point of boiling. Beat one or two eggs in a bowl, stir a spoonful of sauce into them, and add them gi-adually to tlio rest. Shake the sauce over the fire for a minute, hut do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Add a table-spoonful of lemon- juice, and serve. If Hked, the blanquette may be piled in the centre of a dish with a border of pastry round it. Time to sinuner the mush- rooms, ten to fifteen minutes. Veal, Blanquette of, with Mush- rooms (another way).—Take from one to two pounds of cold dressed veal, and mince it finely. Chop an onion, and fry it in butter till it begins to turn yellow. Stir in with it a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, and beat it with a spoonful of floui- to a smooth paste. Moisten this with stock to make it of the consistency of cream, and add a table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms and a little pepper and salt. Simmer the sauce for about ten minutes, add the minced veal, and simmer it again imtil the meat is heated throughout, but it must not boil, or it wiU harden. If liked, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and the strained juice of half a'lemon may be added to the sauce. Time, altogether, about an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Veal, Boiled.—Generally speaking, veal plainly boiled is regarded as too insipid to he much relished. Still, for an occasional change, the joints wliich would otherwise be roasted may be boiled. Bacon, or sausage, or boiled tongue should be served with boiled veal; and parsley and butter, onion, oyster, celery, or any piquant sauce should accompany it. Par- ticular attention is necessary in boiling veal, as it is so easily discoloured, and then has a very bad appearance. It should be put into a delicately-clean saucepan, with boiling milk and water to cover it, boiled for two or three minutes, then drawn back, and simmered gently until done enough. As the scum rises it should be removed with scrupulous care. Veal from which gravy has been made may, if not too much boiled, be served in this way. Veal, Braised.—Take ahout three pounds of veal—the middle of the loin or the best end of the neck will be the most suitable for the purpose. Cut the hones short, and chop off the chine bone close to the meat. Take a smaU bright saucepan, and rub the bottom quickly three or four times across with a clove of garlic. Lay two or three thin slices of lean bacon or ham in the bottom of the saucepan, and place the veal upon these. Add a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a tea-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a lump of sugar, a small blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and salt if the bacon is not already sufficiently salted. Place thin slices of fat bacon upon tli'e veal, and pour upon it half a pint of cold stock or of water. Cover the saucepan closely, and simmer it as gently as possible till done enough. Take up the veal, put it on a hot dish, and place it in the oven for a short time to keep hot. Skim the gravy, and rub it with the ham, vegetables, &c., thi-ough a fine hair sieve. Lot it boil up, stir a wine-glassful of madeira into it, pour it upon the veal, and serve very hot. If a superlative dish is re- quired, before dressing the veal off, cut tlio skin of the veal, but not too closely. Spread