PUN PUN ( 670 ) by a little of tho flower of Benjamin, When with tho richest shorbot, soinotiintis rendered Htill richer by fruit-jellies, and oven nutmeg, wine is mingled with tho rum and brandy, instead of water, tho liquid is called Punch Eoyal. Tho mixture of a small (juantity of alo or porter, highly recommended by some in making punch, seems only advisable when it is rum- punch, made without any brandy, and must, even then, bo very sparingly introduced. This tirticle, whatever may appear its value, is fur- nished, with regard to its principles, by one of the first practical punch-makers in Europe, who could easily, by dwelling on minute cir- cumstances, have supplied matter for a small volume : the essence of which is, however, ho freely confesses, here sufficiently concentrated for every useful purpose. With regard to the salubrity of punch, when drank in moderation, hot in winter, or cold, and even iced in summer, it affords a grateful beverage, admirably allaying thirst, promoting tho secretions, and conveying animation to tho spirits. If, however, .amid the hilarity excited by the tempting fragrance and luscious taste, which the balmy bowl seldom fails to inspire, it be too freely drank, its powerful com- bination of spirit and acid, instead of proving favourable to the constitution, will infallibly tend to bring on the gout, even sooner than most wines or strong cider, unless happily prevented by using a considerable deal of exer- cise. Punch, like all the prime blessings of life, is excellent and salutary when prudently enjoyed at proper seasons. We must not charge on them our own want of discretion, by which alone they are ever converted to evils. The apparently whimsical name of pimch, like the liquid itself, is of West India origin— the word, in the aboriginal language, signifying simply Jive, being the number of ingredients there used: viz., 1. Acid, or lime, or lemon- juice; 2. Sweetness or sugar; 3. Spirit or rum, (fee; 4. Water; and 5. Spicy flavour, or nutmeg, &c. It is singular, too, that punch, the word for five, consists of just five letters. From the opposite natures of the ingredients, punch has also been called the liquor of con- tradictions. Punch (a la Fran^aise).—Take a litre of rum (rather over a pint) and 750 grammes of broken sugar (about a pound and three-quar- ters), and place these ingredients in a saucepan. Bum the sugar until it becomes candied, brown in colour, and reduced by one-third. Throw in rather more than a pint of boiling tea, with the juice of half a dozen citrons and as B[iany oranges. Drink immediately. Punch, (a la Fran^aiso). Another way.— The following is calculated more especially to produce a ladies' punch. Take rather more than two pounds of sugar, and molt it in a large saucepan over the fire, a good half-tum- blerful of water or tea being poured over to moisten it, with tho juice of two lemons and two oranges. When tho sugar is well molted, pour into tho saucepan a bottle of rum and a bottle of brandy, and as much tea as is needed to modify its strength. After adding the tea, take caro that the punch is sweet enough. Just warm tho punch; do not let it boil. Immediately before serving squeeze the juico of half a dozen oranges through a sieve into the mixture. Punch (a la Regence).—Take the thin rind of two lemons and two Seville oranges. I'ut them uito a bowl, with a small piece of vanilla, four cloves, and an inch of stick cinnamon. Pour over them a hot syrup, made with a pound and a half of refined sugar boiled in a pint of water. Let these ingredients infuse for several hom-s. Mix with them the strained j uice of twelve lemons, and rum and brandy accord- ing to taste. Strain the liquid through a fine napkin. Bottle immediately, and put it in ico imtil it is wanted. Punch (a la Heine).—Rub the rind of two large fresh lemons with three or four large lumps of sugar till the zest is taken off. Squeeze out and strain the juice of six lemons and two oranges, and add three-quarters of a pound of sugar, dissolved in as much water as will mois- ten it, and half a pint of water. Freeze tho mixture. Stir into the ice a glassful of rum and a glassful of brandy, and freeze again. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a solid froth, and beat up ■with them four ounces of pounded sugar. Stir this into the ice and serve. Punch (a la Romaihe, Iced). — Take the juice of two China oranges, and a glassful each of rum and champagne, and mix them with a pint and a half of lemon-water ice. Freeze in the usual way. Beat up half a pound of powdered sugar with the frothed whites of two eggs, add this to the rest, with half a pint of brandy, a bottle of champagne, and a cup of green tea. Stir the mixture briskly into the ice imtil it liquefies. If it is too thick to pour out, add a little water, a little more cham- pagne, or a little syrup. For the pimch to be perfect the quantity of ice miist be proportioned to the liquid. It should be smooth and white, like thick cream, and should be served in cham- pagne glasses. This recipe for making punch a la Romaine has long been a desideratum with amateurs, but, since its invention, it has been in a few hands only. Punch (a la Victoria).—To a pint of clari- fied sugar, mix the juice of half a dozen lemons and two China oranges, with the rind of two lemons rubbed off on a liunp or two of sugar. Strain when the sugar has dissolved, and freeze. Take the mixture out of the ice-pot, add equal quantities of brandy and rum, and beat up the whites of three eggs with a quarter of a pound of sugar to a stiff froth. Llix it gently with the rest, and put again to freeze. Punch, Burnt.—Stir over the fire a pint and a haK of rum, a pint and a half of claret, and three-quarters of a pound of sugiir. When the sugar is melted, and the mixture boils, pour a pint and a half of boiling water over it and the juice of three lemons. This punch may 1)0 drunk eith(!r hot or cold: Lf cold, it should bo allowed to stand covered in the saucoiian till it is cold, and then be poured into detanters. The zest of the lemons should be rubbed off on the sugar before it is put in.