(641 ) POtI i>ou sti-ippod from the stalks. Put them into a deep jar, and pour over them a pint and a half of boUing vinegar. Place the jar in a cool oven overnight. Next day strain the liquid without squeezing the fruit, and put it into a saucepan with an inch of whole ginger, two blades of mace, a tea-spoonful of peppercorns, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cloves, and eight shallots. Boil all together for five or six minutes, then pour the ketchup out, and when cold, put it with the spice into small bottles, which must be corked and sealed securely. If liked, half a pound of boned an- chovies may be put into the liquid with the spices, and stirred gently until they have dis- solved. Probable cost, uncertain, elderberries being seldom offered for sale. Sufficient for four half-pint bottles. Poularde.—This is simply another name for capon; it may be di-essed according to the recipe given for turkeys. PoTllarde (a la Eoyal).—Bone the bird. Unless the cook is experienced, this had better be done by the poulterer. Fill it with mush- room forcemeat, which will be improved by the addition of a boiled sweetbread. Truss it securely, cover it with thin slices of fat bacon, put oiled paper over this, and tie it on with twine. Put it down at some distance from a clear fire until it is heated through, then draw it nearer, and baste liberally until it is done enough. About a quarter of an hour before it is taken down remove the paper and bacon, and let the bird brown nicely. Dish it on a puree of chestnuts prepared as follows:—Peel the outer rind from half a hundred sound Spanish chestnuts; throw them into a sauce- pan of hot water, and let them remain upon the fire until the inner brown skin can be easily removed. Pour the water from them, throw them into cold water, peel, and wipe them with a soft cloth. Put them into a stew- pan with a pint of cold milk, and let them simmer very gently until they are quite soft. Drain them, and rub them while hot through a wire sieve. Put the pulp into a stewpan with two table-spoonfuls of milk or cream, a slice of butter, a lump of sugar, and a little pepper and salt. Stir the puree over the fire till it is quite hot, and it is ready for the capon. Time to roast the capon, about an hoiir and a quarter ; to boil the chestnuts, varying with the quality. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poularde (a Stamboul).—Draw the bird carefully, and wipe it out with a damp cloth. Boil half a pound of best rice till it is tender, then drain the liquid from it, and lay it on a sieve before the fire to swell. Moisten part of it slightly with a little highly-seasoned veal stock, and fill the bird with it. Truss it firmly and securely, cover with thin slices of bacon, fasten oiled paper over this, and lay the bird down to a clear fire. Baste liberally, and a quarter of an hour before it is taken down remove the paper and bacon, and lot the bird brown nicely. Moisten the remainder of the rice with veal stock, place it on a hot dish, and lay the capon upon it. Garnish the dish with V slices of lemon, or fresh barberries if they can be had. Probable cost, variable. Sufficient for five or six persons. Poularde, Galantine of (an excellent supper dish).—This dish is always served cold. Split a poularde up the back, and bone it with- out injuring the skin. If the cook is not ex- perienced in the art of boning poultry, this had better be done by the poulterer. Lay it flat upon the table breast downwards, and season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spices. Spread on it a layer an inch thick either of nicely- seasoned sausage-meat or of good forcemeat, and lay on this long slices of cold boiled tongue or ham, and a few small black truffles, if these are obtainable. Repeat these layers until the galan- tine is sufficiently filled up. Sew it up securely with twine, as nearly as possible in its original form, roll it lightly in an oiled cloth, and fasten the ends with string. Lay the bones and any trimmings of meat that may be at hand into a stewpan. If there are none, a calf's foot must be used. Lay the fowl upon these, and add a large onion stuck with one clove, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a carrot, and as much good veal stock as will barely cover the fowl. Cover closely, and let it stew gently until done enough. Let it remain in the stock until it is partially cold. Take it up, and having strained the gravy, reduce it quickly to a jelly, and clarify it {see Jelly, To Clarify). Part of this jelly may be used to glaze the galan- tine, and a little isinglass may be dissolved in it to stiffen it. Let it remain until quite cold, then remove the cloth, take out the stitches, and glaze the poularde. When the jelly is quite stiff, cut it into cubes or diamonds, and use it for garnishing the dish. Time to stew the galantine, one hour and three-quarters, or two hours if very large. Probable cost, varj'- ing with the ingredients. Sufficient for a supper dish. Poularde Raised Pie. —Make three pounds of good forcemeat. This may be made either with equal parts of fillet of veal and fat bacon freed from skin and gristle, chopped, powdered, and nicely seasoned; or with a pound and a half of fillet of veal, a pound of fresh beef suet, six ounces of panada {see Panada), and four eggs. Whatever ingredients are used, however, care must be taken to pound them thoroughly, first separately and afterwards to- gether, and to add the seasoning gradually so that the forcemeat may be agreeably flavoured. For ordinary tastes, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper and half a tea-spoonful of nutmeg will be sufficient for this quantity of forcemeat. The amount of salt used will depend upon the quahty of the bacon. Wash a pound of truffle? perfectly clean. Wipe and pare them, then cvt them into thin slices. Line a mould or shape J pie large enough to hold the poularde and the forcemeat {see Paste for Raised Pies). Spread at the bottom of it a layer of forcemeat and some of the slices of truffle. Split a poularde down the back, and take out the bones without injuring the skin. If more convenient, tliis may be done by the poulterer. Lay it breast downwards upon the board. Season the inside with pepper, salt, and spices, and spread on it a