iaAT RAT? ens) well-beaten eggs. Line some patty-pans with good puff paste, pour a spoonful of the mixture into each, and bake the cheese-cakes in a well- heated oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, l^d. each. Hatafia, Cherry (a Danish recipe).— Bruise two pounds of black cherries, so that all the kernels may be broken; add a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds or peach kernels, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pounded cloves, and one pound of white sugar to the cherries, also half a pint of brandy and a quart of old white ^vine. Let these remain a few days to infuse, stirring fre- quently ; then filter the liqueur and bottle it. For this and several of the following ratafias we are indebted to Amelia von Kochheim's in- teresting " Handbook of foreign Cookery." Ratafia, Coffee.—" This beautiful liqueur," says Robinson, writing in 1848, in his "Whole Art of Making British Wines,'' " is made by in- fusing the following ingredients in a jar:— Best Turkey Coffee, roasted and ground 1 lb. Best Loaf Sugar . . . . 20 oz. Cinnamon and Cloves, beaten, each . ^ „ Nutmeg f „ Sweet Almonds, beaten to a paste . 1 „ Bitter do ^ „ Isinglass, dissolved in a little water . | ,, Proof Spirit of Wine . . .1 gall. Cork up the jar immediately the spirit is added, seal, and tie bladder over it; set the jar in hot water ten hours, then shake well, and set it in the sun for a month. It may then be strained through a fine sieve and filtered until perfectly clear; put it into small bottles, which cork well and seal, and in a month it will be fit for use, though age wUl improve it." Ratafia, Common.—Blanch four ounces of bitter almonds, and chop them very small. Throw them into a mortar with half a grain of ambergris, thi-ee ounces of sugar, and half an ounce of grated nutmeg, then pound all thoroughly together. Put the mixture into a stone jar, pour a quart of good spirit over it, cover closely, and let it remain in a warm place for a fortnight. Filter through a strainer lined with blotting-paper, put the ratafia into small bottles, cork these securely, and store for use. Sufficient for one quart of ratafia. Ratafia Cream.—Boil three or four laurel, nectarine, or peach-leaves in a cupful of cream for three or four minutes. Strain this, and mix with it a pint of thick cream, add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and stir the mixture over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken. Pour it out, let it get cold, and before serving sprinkle some hundreds and thouannda over it! If preferred, milk may be used instead of cream. Or rasp the rind of a lemon and a Seville orange, or, if preferred, two lemons, upon two ounces of sugar. Put this into a bowl, and strain the juice of the fruit upon it. When the sugar is dissolved add a pint of thick cream, a quarter of a pint of ratafia or noveau, and a quarter of a pint of light wine. Whisk the mixture thoroughly, and serve in glasses. Ratafia Cream, Iced. — Blanch two ounces of bitter almonds, and pound them to a smooth paste with a tea-spoonful of rose- water, or water, to prevent them oiling. Add gradually a table-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar, mix the paste with a quarter of a pint of cream, and stir over a gentle fire till pleasantly flavoured. Add another pint of cream, strain the mixture through a jelly-bag, and freeze in the usual way. Time to boil the cream with the almonds, ten minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Sufficient for a little more than a pint of ice-cream. Ratafia Cream, Moulded.—Hasp the rind of a lemon and a Seville orange, or of two lemons, with four or five good-sized lumps of sugar. Put these into a basin, strain the juice upon them, and stir and crush them till dis- solved. Add a pint of thick cream, a quai-ter of a pint of ratafia, and a quarter of a pint of light wine, or, if preferred, a quarter of a pint of sherry, and the eighth of a pint of brandy, and mix all thoroughly. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a cupful of milk, stir this into the cream, and whisk well. Cover the inside of an earthenware mould with muslin wrung out of cold water. Arrange upon this some ratafia biscuits which have been dipped in cream, pour the mixture in carefully, and let it stand in a cold place till set. Tui-n it out, and serve. Ratafia, Cura^oa.—infuse one ounce of the zest or peel of bitter almonds cut as thin as possible, a pound and a half of sugar, and a little pinch of Brazil-wood in two quarts of good brandy. At the end of two days filter it, and put it into bottles. Ratafia d'Angelique.—Take one drachm of angelica seeds, four ounces of angelica stalks, one ounce of blanched bitter almonds bruised, and six quarts of brandy or proof spirit. Digest • for ten days, then filter. Add a quart of water and three pounds and a half of white sugar. Mix well, and after a foitnight decant the clear portion through a piece of clean flannel. Ratafia, Q-ooseberry.—Take five quarts of the finest sound ripe gooseberries, a drachm of cinnamon, a drachm of mace, six pounds of pounded lump sugar, and a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds. Place these in two gallons of French brandy. Stop it well, and let it infuse during three months. Then press out the gooseberries, and filter the whole through filtering-paper. Bottle in pint bottles. Ratafia Ice-cream.—Beat the yolk of an egg, and stir into it half a pint of cream and half a cupful of new milk. Sweeten it, and put it into a saucepan over a gentle fire with an ounce of ratafias. Stir until it begins to thicken, pour it out, and when cool add the strained juice of half a lemon. Freeze the pre- paration in the usual way. and when it is set, add a glassful of noyeau, maraschino, or curavoa, and another ounce of crushed ratafias. Time, about ten minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Sufficient for one pint of ice-cream. Ratafia, Iced.—Soak an ounce of gelatine in a little water for half an hour. Boat tha