( 803 ) SAL Salmon Canapes.—Cut some slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick. Stamp these with a plain cutter into any fanciful shapes, and fry them in clai'ified butter till they lire lightly browned. "When cold spread anchovy butter over them, and lay on the butter thin slices of smoked salmon. Serve the canapes on a small dish. Salmon Caveach.—Take one or more slices of salmon half an inch thick; broil these according to the directions already given. Let them cool, then put them into an earthen pan, and pour over the fish as much vinegar as will entirely cover it. The vinegar should have been boiled with two heads of shallots, two cloves, a small blade of mace, a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, and a little salt to each quart. Pour over the top as much oil as will cover the vinegar, and put the salmon aside till wanted. Time, fifteen minutes to broil the salmon. Probable cost of salmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound, when plentiful. Salmon. Choosing.—Choose salmon with a small head and tail and thick shoulders. If fresh the body will be firm and stiff, the eyes bright and prominent, the scales bright and silvery, and the smell pleasant {see Salmon, Freshness of). The colour of the salmon changes greatly during the course of its life. In the adult fish, the back and upper part of the head are dark blackish-blue, the abdo- men is glittering white, and the sides are of an intermediate tint. On the body, and espe- cially above the lateral line, a few dark spots are scattered. During the breeding season the male salmon assmnes its most vivid hues, an orange golden tint spreading over the body, and the cheeks being marked with bright orange streaks. The size of the salmon is extremely variable. Some specimens have been caught that weighed sixty pounds, and Mr. YarreU mentions one case where a female salmon was captured about the year 1821, and was remark- able for weighing eighty-three pounds. This great weight was owing more to the depth and thiclmess of the fish than the length. Salmon, Cleaning of.—Begin by cutting out the gills; then open the belly, take out the inside, and wash it lightly; scrape off the scales, and cut the fish in slices, or serve it whole. If the salmon is to be crimped, the scales must be allowed to remain. Sahnon-trout are cleaned in the same way as salmon. Salmon, Collared.—Split a salmon, and take one half for the roll. Cut off the head and tail parts, scale, bone, wash, and dry the- fish perfectly. Into a piece weighing four pounds rub a savoury powder made of two tea-spoon- fuls of salt, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, two drachms of powdered mace, and a pinch of cayenne. RoU the salmon up, and bind it firmly; put it in a fish-kettle, cover it with vinegar and cold water, putting two parts of ■water to one of vinegar, and add two or three bay-loaves and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan, and let the fish simmer gently till it is done enough. Serve cold with anchovy «auce or molted butter; and in order to pre- serve the fish, keep it covered with the liquor in which it was boUed, and pour into this a littlo additional vinegar. Time to boil, about an hour. Probable cost, salmon, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound when in full season. Salmon. Collared (another way).—Take a slice of salmon, cut off a handful of the tail, wash the large piece well, and dry it with a clean cloth; rub it over with the yolks of eggs, and then make a forcemeat with what has been cut off the tail (but take off the skin), and put to it a handful of parboiled oysters, the yolks of three or four eggs boiled hard, six anchovies, a handful of sweet herbs chopped small, a little salt, some cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and grated bread: work these together into a body with the yolks of the eggs, and lay it all over the salmon; roll it up into a collar, and bind it with broad tape : then boU it with salt and vinegar in the water—let the liquor boU before it is put in—let it continue to sinmier gently till done. It will take nearly two hours' boiling; when it is done enough, take it up into a deep pan. When the liquor is cold, put it to the salmon; let it stand till it is wanted for use. Or it may be put into a pot that will just hold it, and clarified butter poured over it. Salmon, Crimped.—Take two slices of crimped salmon, ana place them in a stewpan in two quarts of boiling water, half a pound of salt being added. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes; try the bone in the centre, and if it leaves the flesh easily the fish is done enough. Remove the fish from the fish kettle the instant it is done enough—to allow it to remain longer destroys the aroma. If not ready, cover it over with a wet napkin, and stand it in the hot closet; then dish it on a napkin, and serve either lobster or shrimp ^uce with it. Salmon, Crimped and Boiled.—When salmon can be obtained newly caught, it is ex- cellent crimped and boiled. It may either be crimped whole, or cut into slices two or three inches thick. When it is to be crimped whole, take it when quite fresh, remove the giMs and the inside, opening the fish as little as pos- sible. Crimp it by making deep gashes across the body on both sides with a sharp knife, plunge the fish immediately into very cold water, and let it lie for two hours, changing the water every haK houi-. Or cut the fish into slices three inches thick; lay these in cold water slightly salted, and let them remain for one hour. Boil the salmon according to the directions given for boiled salmon, but remem- ber that less time is required to boil fish after it is crimped than before. Garnish the salmon, and serve with the same sauces as if it were plainly boiled; or the following sauce may be sent to table:—Put four ounces of fresh butter into an earthen jar. Set this in a pan of boiling water, and beat it until dissolved with a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a table- spoonful of strained lemon-juice, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Serve in a tureen. Salmon, Crimped, with Caper Sauce.—M arinade your slices of siilmon in a little olive-oil with salt and pepper. Three- quarters of an hour before you send up, broil