1176 carskll's cookekv. huddouks, smolts, dory, gumot, herrings, sprats, oysters, inussola, cockles, lobsters, crabs, mid shell-tish iu general, perch, ciu-p, eels, dace, ling. Vegetables.—Cabbages, broccoli, savoys, Brus- Kols sprouts, (Scotch kale, sua-kale, apiuach, endive, cardooiis, lettuces, skirret, salsit'y, scor- z'Uioru, surrol, potatoes, turnips, parsnips, car- rots, beeti'oot, Jerusalem articliokes, celery, peas, hiuicot beans, looks, onions, sliallots, nnish- rooms, horse-radish, piu-sley, thynio, tarragon, choi-vii, mint, sago, small salads. Gai-don herbs, or pot herbs, which are chiefly used for stuffings, in soups, and for flavouring dishi^s, or for gar- nisliiug, are always in season, and can be procuied at any time, either green or diied. iVui<8.—Apidos, pears, medlars, grapes, figs, chestnuts, almonds, filberts, nuts, walnuts, raisins, currants, prunes, and all sorts of jjre- served and dried fruits, jams, marmakdes, and fruit jellies. E82)ecially in Season m December.—Haddocks, tench, dace, cod, dory, ling, skate, turbot, capons, pea-fowl, turkeys. C—GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. Aspic.—A savoury jelly. AssiETTES.—Small entrees not more than a plate win contain. Atelet.—A small silver skewer, Au Bleu.—A French term applied to fish boiled in white wine with flavourers. Ax) Gkas.—Dressed with meat gravj'. Au Jus.—In the natural juice, or gravy. Au Naturel.—Plain, simple cookery. Bah A.—Very light plum-cake, or sweet French yeast cake. Bain-Marie.—An open vessel which has a loose bottom for the reception of hot water. It is used to keep sauces nearly at the boiling- point without reduction or burning. Barde.—A thin slice of bacon fat placed over any substance specially requiring the assistance of fat without larding. Batterie de Cuisine.—Complete set of coolcing apparatus. Bavaroise a l'eau.—Tea sweetened with syrup of capillaire, and flavoured with a little orange-flower water. Bavaroise au Lait.—Made in the same way as the above, but with equal quantities of milk and tea. Bechamel.—A rich white French sauce. Beignet, or Fritter {see Fritter). Bisque.—A soup made of shell-fish. Blanc.—"White broth used to give a more delicate appearance to the flesh of fowl, lamb, &c. Blanch.—Placing anything on the fire in cold water until it boils, and after straining it off, plunging it into cold water for the purpose of rendering it white. Used to whiten poul- try, vegetables, «&:c. Blanquette.—A fricassee usually made of thin slices of white meat, with white sauce thickened with egg yolk. Blonde de Veau.—Double veal broth used to enrich soups and sauces. BouDiN.—A delicate compound made of quenelle forcemeat. BouiLLi.—Beef which has been boiled in making broth. BouiLLiE.—A French dish resembling that called hasty pudding. Bouillon.—The common soup of France. BouauET OF Herbs.—Parsley, thyme, and green onions tied together. Bouquet Garni.—The same thing as Fagot, which see. BouRGUiGNOTE.— A ragout of truflles. Braise.—Meat cooked in a closely-covered stewpan to prevent evapoi-ation, so that the meat retains not only its own juices, but those of any other articles, such as bacon, herbs, roots, and spice put with it. Braisiere.—^A saucepan with ledges to the lid, so that it will contain filing. Brider.—To truss fowls -with a needle and thread. Brioche.—A sponge cake similar to Bath buns. BuissoN.—A cluster or bush of small pastry piled on a dish. Callipash.—The glutinous portion of the turtle found in the upper shell. Callxpee.—The glutinous meat of the turtle's under shell. Cannelons.—Small rolls or collars of mince- meat, or of rice and pastry with fruit. Capilotade. a hash of poultry. Casserole.— The form of rice to be filled with a fricassee of white meat or a puree of game; also a stewpan. Civet.—A dark, thickish stew of hare or venison. CoMPiiiGNE.—Sweet French yeast cake, with fruit. CoMP&TE.—Fruits stowed in syrup, ihere are also compotes of small birds. CoNKiTUHEs.—Sweetmeats of sugars, fruits, syrups, and essences.