VEO ( 1068 ) VEG xJEAff Mango Beet Maple Blackbeiiry Mauigold Uread-fhuit Medlar Broccoli Melon Brussels Sprouts Mint Cakhaqe Mulberry Carrot Mushroom Cauliflower Mustard Oeleriac Nasturtium Celery Nectarine Lherry Nutmeg Chestnut Oat Chocolate Olive Cinnamon Onion Citron Orangb Cloves Parsley Cocoa-nut Parsnip Coffee Pea Cranberry Peach Cucumber Pear CUKRANT Pepper Damson Pine-apple Date Pistachio-nut Elder Plantain ±jNDIVB Plum Fennel Pomegranate 1* IG Potato Garlic Prune Gherkin Pumpkin Ginger Quince GoOSEBERRjr Eadish Grape Raisin Haricot Beans Raspberry Hazel-nut Rice Hop Rye Horseradish Sago Jerusalem Artichoke Sea-kale Kidney Bean Spinach Leek Straavberry Lemon Sugar Lettuce Tapioca Lime Tea Maize, or Indian Walnut Corn Yam Mangel-wurzel Vegetable Hach§.—Fry some onions cut in slices till they are of a pale brown. Fry them with butter, and add any kind of vege- tables previously boiled. Chop them up, and stew all together. Stir weU over a slow fire, and when about half done add some sliced chillies and tomatoes. If the pan be dry put in a very little gravy. Some sorrel or a glassful of vine- gar may be added. Time to stew, half an hour. Vegetable Marrow. — The vegetable marrow appears to bo merely a variety of the pumpkin. It was brought into Europe from Persia, and is now much cultivated in Britain. It is a hardy plant, and its fruit is of excellent quality, and useful for culinary purposes at al- most every stage of its growth. The best known sort is, when fully grown, elliptic in shape, very smooth, and generally about nine inches long, and four inches in diameter. There are, however, several other varieties, of different shapes and sizes. Vegetable Marrow, Cooking of the. —The vegetable man-ow may be dressed in a yanety of ways, and is wholeeomo and excellent in all. Vurious recipes are given below. It comes mto season towards the end of summer and even after it is cut if it is hung by the stalk in a cool dry place it will keep for some weeks I ho best marrows are those about six inches long. Very small marrows are likely to be de- licient m flavour. Very large ones will be full of seed. Probable cost, 2d. to Cd. each. VEGETABLE MAHROW. Vegetable Marrow Fried in Bat- ter.—Pare and quarter the marrows, and boO. them in the usual way for ten minutes, or until they are three - parts dressed. Drain them, sprinkle a little pepper and salt upon them, cut into slices, dip them into frying batter, and frj' in hot fat till brightly browned. Lift them upon a dish, sprinkle chopped parsley over them, and serve either alone or as an accompaniment to dressed meat. The frj-ing batter ma}'^ be made as follows:—Put six ounces of flour into a bowl, mix a tea-spoonful of salt with it, and work it into a paste with a quarter of a pint of water. Add a table-spoonful of oil and the well-beaten yolk of one egg, and beat the paste till it is quite smooth. Let the batter stand in a cool place for an hour. A quarter of an hour before it is wanted add the whites of two eggs whisked to a firm froth. Vegetable Marrow in White Sauce or Gravy.—Boil a large marrow in the usual way. M'Tien three-parts cooked, take it up, cut it into squares, place these in a saucepan, and pour over them as much white sauce or thick brown gravy as will cover them. Let them heat gently. Serve in a vegctable-dish with the sauce poured over them. Time, fifteen tc twenty-five minutes. Probable cost of marrows, 2d. to 6d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Vegetable Marrow in White Sauce (another way).—Pare and (luarter throe guod- sizcd vegetable marrows. Remove the seeds, cut the quarters into pieces about two inches long, and shape each piece in a point at the top and flat at the bottom. Boil until tender. Place them standing side by side on a hot dish, pour