POM ( 596 ) POL Polenta Pudding (to bo oaton witli moat).—Boil a pint and a half of inillc, and drop into it vory gradually, stirring briskly all tho tinio, half a pound of polonta or maize- flour. Boil, and atir until tho mixturo is quite thicjt and smooth, then stir in a little popper and salt, and an ounce of fresh buttur. Pour the mixturo into a buttered mould, and bake in a good oven. Tuni the pudding out before serving. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Polish Cutlets.—Take a pound of tender runip steak not more than an inch thick ; cut it into neat rounds, and beat these flat with a cutlet bat. Mince finely two shallots, or a mo- derate-sized onion, and, if liked, add half a clove of garlic. Put these ingredients into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and thi-ee bruised cloves. When the onions are tender, without being at all browned, lay the cutlets upon them, cover the saucepan closely, and let them steam very gently until they are quite tender. If the gravy dries, add one or two spoonfuls of stock, or even water. When the cutlets are done enough, lift them out, and place them on a hot dish. Skim the gravy. Dredge a little flour into it, and colour with burnt sugar—or, better still, put a nut of brown thickening into it—let it boil two or three minutes, and strain it over the meat. Put a bordering of fried sliced potatoes round the dish, or place a few mashed potatoes in the centre, and serve very hot. Time to steam, about an hour. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. Polish. Pudding.—Blanch one ounce of sweet almonds and six bitter ones, and pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste, adding a few drops of water to prevent their oiling. Put them into a saucepan with half a pint of new milk, and bring the liquid slowly to the boil. Mix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot very smoothly with half a pint of cold milk. Pour the boUing milk upon this, and stir briskly for a minute or two. Add two ounces of fresh butter, and two well-beaten eggs, and stir the mixture again imtil it is cool. Put it into an oiled mould, and set it upon ice, if possible ; if not, lay it in a cool place imtil it is wanted. Turn it out before serving, and send hot plates to table with it, and the following sauce in a tureenBeat two ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add two oimces of powdered sugar and two glassf uls of sherry, and mix thoroughly. Put the mixturo into a small saucepan, and stir gently until it boils. Serve immediately. Time, six or eight hours to set the pudding, if it is not put upon ice. Probable cost. Is., ex- clusive of the sherry. Sufficient for four or five persons. Polish Sauce, for Sweet Puddings. —Put an ounce of butter and a tea-spoonful of moist sugar into a stewpan, and when tho sugar is dis.solved stir in a tea-spoonful of fine flour. Let it brown, then pour in four table-spoonfuls of claret add a tea-spoonful of stoned and chopped raisins, a tea-spoonful of picked and washed currants, the eighth of a small nutmeg pirated an inch of thin lomon-rind, and half a dozen almonds blanched and cut small. Sim- mer tho Biiuco gently, uutU tho currants are soft, and serve. Time to simmer, a ijuai-ter of an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wino, 3d, Sufficient for two or three porsoriH. Polish Tartlets. —If a little piece of puif paste is left after making vol-au-vents, or tai-ts, or any other aiiiclos of that sort, it may bo advantageously used as follows:— Roll out the pastry till it is very thin, and cut it into pieces a little more than two inches square. Moisten the surface of these with a little water, and fold over the comers so that they will all meet in tho centre. Put a little ball of pastry in the centre of each, and press it lightly down vidth tho finger. Brush the tartlets over with egg, sprinkle a little pow- dered sugar upon them, and bake in a hot oven. Before serving, put a little bright- coloured jam round the little ball of pastry, and serve the tartlets on a neatly-folded napkin. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, 6d. each. Sufficient, a quarter of a pound of pulf pastry for a moderate-sized dish. Polish Tea. — Rub two or three large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a large fresh lemon until all the yellow part is taken oft'. Add a little more sugar to make up two ounces, and crush the sugar to powder. Strain over this the juice of tho lemon, add two wine-glass- fuls of white wine, and cover the sjTup until it is wanted. Put a pint of ale into a saucepan with four inches of stick cinnamon. Let it simmer gently for a few minutes, then stir into it a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot which has been made into a paste with a little wine. Add the syrup, and a little more sugar if required, and simmer the liquid a few minutes longer, stirring constantly. Draw the tea from the fire for a minute, and whisk into it the yolks of two eggs which have been beaten up wdth a little wine. Before serving, add a glass of maraschino. Time, twenty minutes to simmer the tea. Probable cost, 8d., exclusive of the wine and liqueuri Sufficient for almost a quart of Poli^ tea. Polpetti, Italian {sec Italian Polpetti). Pomegranate.—This is the fmit of tho pomegranate tree {punica granattdn), a plant which grows to the height of fifteen or twenty feet. The fruit is a pulpy many-seeded berr>% the size of an orange, covered with a thick brown coriaceous rind. Its value depends on the smallness of the seed and the largeness of the pulp. Tho pulp is of a reddish hue, and has a pleasant sub-acid taste; it is ver>' re- freshing. The singular and beautiful appear- ance of the fruit contributes to the variety of the dessert; pomegranates, being powerfully acid and astringent, are used medicinally in fevers and inflammatory disorders. The pomegranate is a native of most parts of the South of Europe and of China. In Lan- guodoc, and some parts of Italy, it is employed as a hedge plant. It was cultivated in England, Loudon informs us, by Gerard, in 1596; but though it grows very well in the open air, it sel- dom ripens its fruit so as to render it worth anything. The finest pomegranates, called by