SUM sua ( 942 ) this viuegiir ia inado in March or April, it will be ready for bottling in September. Sugar Vinegar (another way).—To every gallon of water add two pounda of brown sugar and little yeast. Have it oxpoaed to the sun for six months in a vosaol slightly stopped. Sugar Vinegar, Strong.—Put a gallon of water into a stewpan with seven pounds of coarse moist sugar, atir it for a minute or two, then boil it for half an hour, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Pour it out, and when it is new-milk-warm, or from si.xty to sixty-five degrees Fahrenheit, put into it a thick piece of toast well covered with fresh yeast. Let it stand for two days, and stir frequently. Put it into a cask, paste a piece of paper over the bung-hole, and put it in a wai-m dry place. Let it stand till ready, then bottle for use. This strong vinegar wiU be found excellent for all purposes. Sugar, Wholesomeness of.—Sugar is nutritious, antiseptic, and laxative. In mode- rate quantities it is wholesome, but from its tendency to ferment it is apt in some consti- tutions to produce flatulency, heat, and thirst. It should not be made too free with by those who wish to preserve their teeth white and sound. Sughlio, Italian.— This preparation is simply stock which has been made of wine instead of water. It is appropriately seasoned with herbs and spices, and various delicacies, such as fowls, game, macaroni, &c., are cooked in it. If the meat of which the stock is made be taken up before it is too much dressed, it will of itself form an excellent dish. Sultana Haisins.—Sultana raisins hardly possess sufficient flavour to be used alone in puddings or cakes, but they are excellent when mixed with other kinds, such as valencias or muscatels. They are very convenient because they are stoneless, though they have a good many little stalks about them which need to be carefully picked out before the raisins are used. Summer Beverages.—Recipes for va- rious summer beverages will be found under their respective headings. We give here how- ever, a few additional recipes. Aerated Beverages.—These may be enjoyed in every household by the employment of a gazogene. This is a portable apparatus for aerating water and other liquids. It is to be obtained in many different forms, but in all the principle is the same. In one c(jmpartment powders are placed for generating carbonic acid gas, in another is the liquid to be aerated. The two compartments communicate with each other by a suitable tube, and a second tube furnished with a spring tap affords a means of exit for the aerated liquid. By means of the gazogene water, wine, ale, &c., may in a few minutes be rendered brisk and piquant by means of carbonic acid. By the employment of fruit syrups manufactured from English and foreign fruits, the most delicious aerated sum- mer beverages may be produced. ".Bomirt."—This a pleasant drink common in I Italy. It is made by blanching about two ounces of sweet almonds, and rubbing them down to a smooth pulp in a moitar with an equal weight of sugar; to this a single bitter almond should be added, and also rubbed down to a paste. One quart of water should be gradually added in a fine stream to this pulp, an assistant keeping the pestle continually rolling to insui-e perfect admixture. This is peculiarly grateful and delicate in taste. Cheese or Milk Whey.—Th.\% is an excellent drink in summer-time. So also is buttermilk, especially when the cows feed on good fresh herbage. In northern countries, buttermilk is kept till it becomes sour, and separates into a curd or whey, which possesses considerable acidity, but notwithstanding is exceedingly wholesome, and forms a refreshing beverage. In the North it is a common drink with la- bourers. Cider Cup.—Take two bottles of cider, two glassfuls of sherrj', and one of hqueur. Add the juice of one lemon and half of the peel cut thin, two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, I and the white of an egg beaten to a froth and I poured over the mixture. Ice well. Cool Tankard.—Put into a quart of mild ale I a wine-glassful of white wine, the same of brandy and capillaire, the juice of a lemon, and j a little piece of the rind. Add a sprig of borage or balm, a bit of toasted bread, and nutmeg grated on the top. Cooling Drink.—Dissolve six table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar in a tumblerful of water, pour it into a large jug with a bottle of claret; stir, and add one bottle of champagne and two of soda water, and ice well. Cranberry Brink.—Put a tea-cupful of cran- berries into a cupful of water, and mash them. Boil, in the meantime, two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel; add the cranberries, and sugar (but not too much, otherwise the fine sharpness of the fruit will be destroyed), a quarter of a pint i of white wine, or less, according to taste; boil for half an hour, and strain. Curds and Whey (a cheap method).—Add six grains of citric acid to a wine-glassful of milk, and the result will be a pleasant acidulous whey and a fine curd. Curds and Whey (Italian method). — Take several of the rough coats that line the gizzards ! of turkeys and fowls, cleanse from the dirt, rub well with salt, and hang them up to dry; when required for use, break off some of the skin, pour boiling water on, digest for eight or nine hours, and use the same as rennet. Fruit Beverages.—These maybe manufactured from nearly all the fruits which can be made into jams. The jam is to be prepared as usual, and a small portion, say about two ounces, stirred in a quart of water. For summer use the following jams or pulps are specially re- freshing:—Tamarinds (very much used in Italy, especially in conjunction with effervescent waters), black-currant jelly, raspberry jam, vinegar, or syrup, apple jelly, and quince jam. Oingcr Beer (Dr. Kitchiner's recipe).—To eleven gallons of water put ten pounds of loaf sugar, half a pound of bruised ginger, the rind I of four lemons, and the whites of four eggs