CASSELL'S COOKERY, 1178 Pkofitekolles.—Light pastry creamed in- side. PuiiKE.—The name gfiven to a soup the in- gredients for thiekonini^ which have hinm passed through a sieve, then thinned with broth to the proper consistency. Meat and fish are cooked and pounded in a mortar, roots and vegetables are stewed till soft in order to prepare thorn for being thus convei'ted to a smooth pulp. Quenelles.—Forcemeat of various kinds composed of fish or me^t, with bread, yolk of egg, and some kind of fat, seasoned in different ways, formed with a spoon to an oval shape, then poached in stock and used either as gar- nish to entrees, or to be served separately. RagoOt.—A rich sauce, with sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, &c., in it. Releves.—The remove dishes. Remou L ADE.—Salad- dressing. RiFACiMENTO.—Meat dressed a second time. Rissole.—A mince of fish or meat enclosed in paste, or formed into balls and other shapes. Used either as side-dishes or garnish. {See Ulso Fricassees.) Ron.—Roast meat. Roux.—A mixture of butter and flour used for thickening white soups and gravy. Salmi.—A hash of game cut up and dressed \irhen only half roasted. Santon.—To dress with sauce in the sauce- pan by keeping it in motion. Sauce i'iuuant.—A sharp sauce in which lemon and vinegar predominate as a flavour. Sai'te-i'an.—A tJiin-bottomed shallow pan for quicTc frying. Sauteu.—To toss over the fiio in a, aaute-pan with a small quantity of fat only. Seuviette, ^ LA.—Servpd in a napkin. Su'i'ETK.—Small pieces of bread cut into various shapes, cither soaked in stock, tf^asted, or fried, to servQ w\)h meats as garnishing or borders. Souffle.—A light pudding. Stock.—The broth of which soups are made. Tamis OH f Tammy."—A strainer of fine woollen canvas, used for straining soups and sauces. TiMBALE.—A sort of pie made in a mould. TouBTE.—A tart baked in a shallow tin. TiUFLE.—A second - course dish, made of sponge cake, macaroons, jams, &c., brandy or wine, and liqueurs. TiioussEK.—To truss a bird. TuKBANS [see Mazarines). Vanner, To.—To make a sauce smooth by rapidly lifting it high in large spoonfuls, and allowing it to fall qiuckly again for some time. Veloute. —Rich sauce used to heighten the flavour of soups and made dishes. yoL-AU-TENT.—A light puff paste, cut roimd or oval, ejaclosing any delicai^e mincemeat. I un;v r,..iTY I L' 1-1 PRINTBD BY CA8SELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAOE, LONDON, B.C.