( 619 ) POT POT a-tichokes, seakale, and celery, are the most suitable. Stew these uutil they ai-e quite teuder, and press them through a haii- sieve. ■Make the soup hot, mix with it half a pmt ot boiling cream, and serve. Send fried crusts to table on a separate dish. Time to simmer the soup, five hours the first day from the time the water reaches the boiling point; one hour and a hidf the second. Probable cost, vaiying with the ingredients. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Potato.—The potato on its introduction into the British Islands [see Potato, History of the) was served at first as a delicacy, and came very slowly into general use, though now it con- stitutes one of the cheapest and most common kinds of vegetable food. It is not very nutri- tious ; indeed, it is less so than any other vege- table (see Potato, Nutritive Properties of the); nevertheless its cultivation has again and again prevented famine in agricultural districts, and it is well knowm that the Irish—a hardy and healthy race—subsisted for some time almost en- tirely upon it. There are a great many varieties of potato, and generally each locality has its favourite, which is known by the local name. Its excellence, however, depends to a very large extent upon the cooking; and whilst a good potato may be spoiled by bad cooking, an in- ferior potato may, with proper management, be rendered comparatively good. It is to be feared, however, that large quantities of potatoes are constantly wasted in many families, owing to the way in which they are dressed. Potato and Almond Pudding.— JNIash six ounces of boiled potatoes, di-y and floury, till they are perfectly smooth. Blanch three ounces of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, and pound them, but not finely, with a little omnge-flower water. Let them simmer in half a pint of new milk until the flavour is drawn out, and dissolve in the milk four ounces of fresh butter and four ounces of powdered sugar. Stii* the mixture into the potatoes, add a pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg, and the rind and juice of half a lemon. Beat the pudding till it is light and smooth, and add separately the yolks and well-whisked whites of five eggs. Line a pie-dish with pulf-paste, and pour in the mixture. Chop half a dozen almonds rather coarsely, strew them over the pudding, and bake in a well-heated oven for one hour. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato and Almond Pudding (an- other way).—See Almond and Potato Pudding. Potato and Leek Soup {see Leek and Potato Soup). Potato Balls.—Steam two pounds of mealy potatoes, and beat them till they are quite smooth and free from lumps. Mix with th(;m two ounces of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, and two table-spoonfuls of boiling cream or milk. Make them into balls the size of a walnut, brush each one over with beaten egg, and fry in hot butter until they are nicely browned. If liked, a little grated ham, a finely- minced shallot, or a little chopped parsley, may ^ added to the potatoes, and the mixture may be bound together with the yolk of an egg. Send good brown gravy to table with the potato balls. Time, ten minutes to fry the potatoes. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. {See also Potato Cones.) Potato Balls (another way).—Mash one pound of diy mealy potatoes until they are quite smooth. Before they have time to cool, mix with them a table-spoonful of hot milk, one ounce and a half of clarified butter, a salt- spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Beat the mixtui-e till these ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, then add the ' whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth. Mould the preparation into small balls the size of a large marble, and fry in hot fat until they are lightly browned. Drain, and serve the balls piled on a hot napkin. Time to fry, five or six minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for three or four persons. Potato Balls (economical).— Take one pound of cold boiled potatoes, rub through a wire sieve, put into a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of milk; beat over the fire till smooth. Add pepper and salt, the yolk of an egg, and a little chopped parsley. When cold form into balls, brush over with the white of egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Potato Beer.—In Silesia potato beer is made thus cheaply.—" Twenty-five gallons from half a bushel of potatoes, ten pounds of malt, half a pound of hops, and two quarts of yeast. The cost of one tun of such beer is said not to exceed two shillings and twopence ; conse- quently the cost of a quart does not amount ,to , one farthing." Potato Biscuits.—Bake half a dozen large potatoes, and when they are done enough, burst them open, and scoop out the inside with a tea-spoon until there is a quai ter of a pound of the flour. Pass this through a fine sieve, and mix with it the weU-beaten yolks of eight eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and half a pound of pounded and sifted sugar. Beat the paste until it is quite light, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a firm froth. Make some small paper cases, oil them, and half fill them with the batter. Strew a little sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. If liked, a little bright-coloured jelly may be put over the biscuits before serving. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Potato Biscuits (M. Tides' recipe).—Take fifteen fresh eggs, break the yolks into one pan and the whites into another. Beat the yolks with a pound of sugar pounded very fine, scrape the peel of a lemon with a lump of sugar, dry that, and pound it fine also; then throw into it the yolks, and work the eggs and sugar till they are of a whitish colour. Next, whip the whites well, and mix them with the yolks. Now sift half a pound of flour of potatoes through a silk sieve over the eggs and sugar. Have some paper cases ready, which lay on a plafond, with some paper underneath. Fill the cases, but not too full; glaze the contents with some rather coarse sugar, and bake the whole in an oven moderately heated.