SEA SEA ( 846 ) aevoriil roots were sent as presonts to Mr. •Southcoto's frionds at Bath; this was about 177.0. When once known and talked of in Bath, it soon boeauio popular throuf^h that part of England. This writer states that sua kale was lirst sold to the public at Exotor market at the price of two shillings and sixpence per root. In the same volnmo it is stated that the Rov. John Fremon, who was vicar of Sidbury, near Sid- mouth, between 1707—13, was the first poi'son that sent sea kale to the London market; but it appears to have been little appreciated. About the middle of last century, Mr. Giles Templeman, of Dorchester, sent some roots to ■Covent Garden Market; but the plant was then so little known that, the labels having been ilefaccd in the carriage to London, the contents of the parcel were put aside as being some sort of " poisonous root or other." Dr. Lettsom, in his horticultural sketch of his residence at Grove Hill, Camber well, 1794, mentions this esculent amongst others grown by him, and expresses some surprise that a vegetable so useful and productive and easy of cultivation ■should be so rarely met with in the gardens a,bout London. Cturtis, in his pamphlet on the cultui'e of sea kale, published 1822, states that Sir Wilham Jones, of Chelsea, says he saw bundles of this vegetable exposed for sale in the market at Chichester in 1753. "I have lefirned from different persons," says Curtis, " that attempts have been made at various times to introduce sea kale into the London markets, but ineffectually. A few years since I renewed the attempt myself, and though it was not attended with all the success I would wish, I flatter myself it has been the means of making the plant so generally known, that in future the markets of the first city of the world will be duly supplied with this most desirable article." The sea kale is not much cul- tivated on the Continent. Valmount de Bomare calls it " Chou marin sauvage d'Angleterre" and so condemned the plant as only fit for the coarser tastes of the inhabitants of colder climates; but in the present day it is seen in the markets of Paris and other French towns. As to its excellence as a food, persons differ, as they do in all matters of taste; some preferring it even to asparagus, to which it is related in point of flavour, others regarding it as little superior to cabbage. In its sensible effects on the human body it comes nearer to the cabbage tribe than asparagus. It is stated to be a most desirable vegetable for sedentary persons, or such as have weak stomachs, being remarkably light and easy of digestion, and abounding in alkali rather than acids. Sea Kale, Stewed.—Wash the sea kale, and tie it in bundles. Boil it in salted water for a quarter of an hour, then drain it, and put it into a saucepan with as much brown gravy as will cover it. Stew gently till tender. _ Lay it in a hot dish, stir a little lemon-juice into the sauce, and pour it over. White sauce or poivrade sauce may, if preferred, bo served with sea kale instead of brown sauce. Time to boil, twenty minutes or more, according to condi- tion. Probable cost, sea kale when plentiful, lOd. to Is. per basket. Sea Kale, Wholesomeness of.—Sea kale is very wholesoino and eaaily digcritod, ;aid is thus well adapted for weak stoiiiachs. Sea Pea.—The sea pea giows wild upon our sea coawts, where its roots penetrat<j to a considerable doptli, and also spread in various directions for several feet just under the sui- face. The peas have a bitterish disagreeublo taste, and therefore, whilst more pleasant food is to be obtained, these are rejected; but in times of scarcity they have been the means of preserving thousands of families from perishing, the delicacy of flavour at such times weighing little against the demands of a keen appetite. Both Howe and Camden relate that in the year 1555, being a year of great dearth, the people collected large quantities of these peas in Suffolk, upon a barren path, where even grass would not grow; and as they never had ob- served any such plant as this there in the time of their fulness, when the eye is careless, they attributed their springing up then to miracu- I lous agency—a miracle to keep the poor from ! starving—though in all probability they liad ! been growing in the same locality for centuries. ! Sea Pheasant {see Pintail, or Sea Phea- i sant). I Sea Pie.—A sea pie is strictly speaking a I pie made of scraps; and thus made, it answei-s 1 sufiiciently well for an economical family din- I ner ; nevertheless, it is much better when made ' with fresh meat. Take as much dressed meat j as will be required, or for a superior pie take a • blanched and jointed chicken and a few slices , of salt beef. Make pastry in the proportion of : haK a poimd of butter, or di-ipping, or shred ! suet, to one of flour. Line a buttered pudding- ' dish with pastry; put in a layer of meat sea- I soned with pepper and finely-shred onion, then I a layer of pastry, and fill the dish with alternate I layers of meat and pastry. Pour stock or cold water into the dish, cover closely, and bake, stew, or steam the pie gently until done enough. I Turn it out carefully, and serve very hot. This I pie will burn quickly if neglected. Time, a I moderate-sized pie, three to four hours. Suf- j ficient for six or eight persons. ! Sea Pie (another way).—Take some im- i cooked meat cut in slices, and put it in a sauce- pan; peel some onions and swedes (or turnips, I if preferred to swedes), cut them in slices, and I put them in with the meat, and sufiicient water barely to cover the whole, then season plea- santly with salt and pepper. Potatoes may also be added. Stew gently till the crust is readv. Make a stiff paste of suet or dripping ; roll it to the size of the saucepan. Lay it on tlie I meat, put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently for an hour and a half. Serve meat and vege- ! tables on a dish, lay the crust on them, and ! pour the gravy over all. Sea-water in Cookery.—It was stated at a meeting in 1871 of the Academy of Sciences at Paris that while excellent bread can bo made with sea-water, forming, by the way, a good tonic, soup or broth made -wnth sea-water is entirely uneatable. It would appear that the ' chloride of magnesium in the sea-water is raised