SEA SEA ( 846 ) Sea Kale.—Sea kale is a plant somewhat resembling asparagus, and it is thus named because it is found in its wild state in districts near the sea. It varies in price, according as it is plentiful or otherwise. It is very whole- some, and easily digested, and is generally highly esteemed: notwithstanding this, its in- troduction to public notice was a matter of tliiiiculty. Its cultivation—and that very re- stricted and local—dates from little more than a hundred years ago, though from time imme- morial the inhabitants of various parts of the coast have been in the habit of searching for it when blanched by the di-ifted sand, and cut- ting oflE the white shoots close to the crown of the plant. {See Sea Kale, History of.) It is the blanching process which makes sea kale SEA KALE. 80 delicate. TJnblanched it is worthless. Per- sons ignorant of the proper mode of doing this by earthing up the plants and covering them with pots, when they came into pos- session of gardens where it had been planted, have been known to root it up, and throw it away, because they tasted only its full-grown leaves, and found them unpalatable. It is the action of light which imparts its strong and bitter taste to sea kale, as well as its glaucous- green and reddish-purple colouring. Conse- quently, sea kale after it is cut should be kept m a dark place till wanted. If exposed in an open situation, it will in two or three days acquire a decided tinge, which injures both its appearance and flavour. Sea kale is amongst the earhost of vegetables. It may frequently be procured m January, and is in fuU season Irom ± ebruary to June. Sea Kale {see also Kale, Sea). Sea Kale, Boiled.—When fresh and delicately cooked, sea kale resembles and will serve as a substitute for asparagus. Carefully wa.sh and brush the sea kale to remove the sand and gnt, cut out the black part of the roots, and tie the shoots in small bundles. 2]!JmT 1^, into plenty of boiling water slightly salted, and keep them boiling quickly until tender. Take them up, drain thL. untie the bunches, and servo the kale on toast, with all the heads in one direction, and with plain melted butter or white sauce poured over it, or, if preferred, without the toast, and dry. If required to be served on toast, the latter may be soaked in the water in which the kale was cooked, that is provided the liquor remains colourless; otherwise it will impart a bitter taste to the toast. Time—the better the kale is, the quicker it will be done; if young and fresh, it wiU be done enough in from twenty to thirty minutes ; if stale and discoloured, it will need from forty to fifty minutes. If there is any suspicion that the kale is stale, the water should be poured ofi: when it is half done, and fresh water substituted. Probable cost when plentiful, lOd. to Is. per basket. Sufficient, twelve heads for three or four persons. Sea Kale, Choosing of.—Sea kale should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut. When fresh, it is white in colour and crisp. If it has acquired a dark tinge, and is limp to the touch, it is stale and comparatively worthless. After it is purchased it should be kept covered up, and in a dark place, till wanted. . Sea Kale, Cultivation of.—The follow- ing are Mr. Loudon's observations on the use of sea-kale :—" The young spring shoots and the stalks of the unfolding leaves, blanched by rising through the natural ground in a wild state, or by earthing up in gardens, are the parts used; and when boiled and dressed like asparagus are not inferior to that vegetable. They form also an excellent ingrecSent in soups. Sometimes the ribs of the large leaves are peeled and dressed as asparagus, after the plant has ceased to send up young growths. By forcing, sea-kale may be had in perfection from November till May, a period including aU the dead months of the year. It is remarked by Nicol, that vegetables are seldom improved by forcing, but that sea-kale forms an exception, the forced shoots produced at mid-winter being • more crisp and delicate in fluvour than those produced in the natural way in April or May. Sir George Mackenzie observes, ' that sea-kale cannot easily be overdone in cooking, and that after being well boiled it should be thoroughly drained, and then suffered to remain a few minutes before the fire, that a farther portion of moisture may be exhaled.' From four to six heads, according to the size, tied together like asparagus, make a dish; and Maher says a blanching pot which contains three plants will afford a dish twice in a season. Hence, from sixty to a hundred pots will suffice for forcing sea-kale for a large family." Sea Kale, History of.—Sea kale grows wild m many parts of Europe, and w-as" only about a centurj-- ago introduced as an article of diet. Its cultivation is conducted on a very liniited scale, though in some parts of Scotland it IS m common use, and held in high estima- tion. It is stated by a writer in the first volume of "Notes and Queries," fourth series, that a gardener in the employ of a gentleman at Stoke Fleming, cultivated some plants he tound growing wild on the beach at" Slapton. ihey were so appreciated by his master that