woo WOO ( 1H8 ) bones, which should bo stronf? enough to form a jolly when cold {sve liiiiaod Pios of Guiiio luid I'oultry). CloHO tho hole in the oover, und when tho pio is cold, Borvo on a dish covorod with a napkin. Woodcock Raised Pie, Hot.—Pro- paro some forcomoat as in tho last rocipo. Divide four woodcocks into quarters. Lino a pie-mould with pastry {see lijiised Pios), luid fill it with alternate layers of forcemeat and pieces of woodcock. Cover it, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out, pour into it some good brown sauco made of tho trimmings of tho woodcock stewed in beef gravy. Servo hot upon a dish covered with a napkin. If liked, a hollow place may be left in the centre of tho pie, into which a piece of the crumb of bread, covered with fat bacon, may be put, whilst the pie is being baked. When done enough, this hoUow may bo filled with sliced truffles mixed in brown sauce. Woodcock, Koast.—Pluck the wood- cocks carefully, neck and head as weU. Do not open them, but truss them securely {see Woodcock, Trussed). Fasten them feet down- wards to a spit, put them down to a brisk clear fire, flour them, and baste liberally with dripping or butter. When they have been down about five minutes, put a buttered toast, free from crust, under them, to catch the drop- pings from the trail. After this is done, hold a dish under them when they are basted. Wben the steam draws to the fire, they are done enough. Dish them with a piece of toast under each, and garnish with watercresses. Send melted butter or orange gravy to table in a tureen. It is an improvement to cover the woodcocks with slices of bacon before putting them down to the fire, and, when they are to be had, two or three vine-leaves may be laid under the bacon. Time to roast the woodcocks, if liked underdone, fifteen to twenty minutes; if liked well dressed, twenty-five to thirty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient, two for a dish. Woodcock, Roast (another way).— There is more art in roasting woodcocks than any other bird of the same size. They require constant attention during the operation of roasting them. As they must be very little dressed—the flesh of the woodcock, like that of all dark-fleshed game, being digestible when almost raw, and losing its savour if roasted to the same degree as a partridge—their cooking occupies but little time; therefore the cook should never leave her woodcocks from the moment they are put down until she takes them up. Truss without drawing them, and put toast under them to catch the trail, which often falls from them when they are before the fire. The most delicate parts of the woodcock are the legs and the trail; next, the breast. As this latter must be very much underdone, and the legs a little better done, to be eatable, there is, of course, an inequality in their roasting, which must be obviated by stopping the spit for a time whenever the logs are turned to- wards the fire, in order to give them a greater proportion of heat. The woodcocks when done aro served up upon tho toast with melted butter only, as then- flavour would bo deteriorated by any kind of gravy. Woodcock, Salmi of.—Take the re- mains of cold dressed woodcocks, and cut off tho nieat in neat pieces. Place these in a covered dish, and put them aside till wanted. Itfimove tlie gizzards from tho trail, then chop it fine, and mix with it a spoonful of bread-crumbs, a small slice of butter, and a spoonful of chopj)ed parsley. Put this also aside. Scrape a carrot, and put tho pulp into a saucepan with two shallots, two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, six peppercorns, and half a dozen mushroomu, if liked, but these nuiy be omitted. Pour over tho ingredients a pint of gravy, and let thorn simmer for an hour. Strain the liquor, and free it entirely from fat. Bruise the bones and trimmings of the woodcocks, put them into the strained liquor, and simmer till they are quite clean. Take the bones out, and send the gravy and the little pieces of meat that are in it through a sieve, and add a glassful of sherry or madeira. Put the pieces of woodcock into a saucepan, pour the gravy over them, and let them heat gently by the side of the fire. Of course they must not boil. Toast one or two slices of crumb of bread, and divide them into five or six pieces of the shape of a heart. Spread the minced trail upon them, and put them in a hot oven for a few minutes. Place the pieces of woodcock on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and garnish with the heart- shaped croutons. Time, two to three hours. Woodcock, Salmi of (another way).— Draw the gravy from a pound of gra^'y beef with a bit of lean ham, and a sheep's milt added to it. Then take a few shallots, a handful of mushrooms chopped, a few strips of ham, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, such as we have indicated for the salmi a. partridges, two cloves, half a dozen of peppercorns, and the same number of blades of allspice. Fry aU this for a short time in a stewpan with a little butter, then pour in a quarter of a pint of madeira or sherry, and the gravy above mentioned. Put in also the backs and necks of tho birds, leaving the rumps with the other limbs for the salmi. Let aU this stew very quietly. Season to taste, and at the expiration of a couple of hours strain the sauce. Then put into a stewpan about an ounce and a half of butter, and, when this boils, half a spoonful of flour. Stir the mixture as it boils until it has assumed a rich blonde colom-; then add gradually the sauce, and let it boil a quarter of an hour longer. Squeeze in the iuice of a lemon. If you have tho trail, pound it, and mix it well with the sauce. Strain this over the woodcock mto another stewpan. This latter must now bo stood near the fire, so that it may heat without boiling. When the me^at is fully penetrated with the Siiuce, serve it up very hot vdth fried sippets. As a variation from this mode, red wine may be substituted for white. Woodcock, Salmi of (^ la Lnoullus).— Vdv'H ro( ip.'.—For this dish you must be par- ticular in having tho woodcocks very much underdone; then take out the intestmos, and