( 708 ) BAS Raspberry and Currant Mould.— Soak im ounco and a half of f^nlatiiie in a littlo cold wator for an hour. Strip tho stalks from a pound of raspborrios and a pound of rod cur- rants. Put thoao into a saucopan with half a pint of watur and half a pound of loaf sugar, laco thoin on tho fire, stir thorn froiiuontly to eop them from huvnlng, and lot tliciu boil. Lot thorn boil for four or five niinutos until the sugar is perfectly dissolved, and rub the pulp through a hair sieve. Set the gelatine on tho fire, and let it boil until it is dissolved, mix it with the pulp, and pour the mi.\turo into a mould made open in tho centre. When it is stifi, turn it out upon a glass dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream sweotenod and flavoured; pile tliis high in tho middle, and servo. If necessary, two or three drops of cochineal may be added to the jolly to heighten its colour. Sufficient for a good-sized mould. Probable cost, 2s., exclusive of the cream. Raspberry and Currant Tart {sec Currant and liaspbcrry Tart). Raspberry and Currant Wme.— Pick fifteen quails of ripe red currants from the stalks, pour upon them four gallons of cold river water that has been hoiled, and cover the vessel close until the next day. Then pick twenty quarts of red raspben-ies nicely, pour on them six gallons of cold water, and cover them also closely. Press the juices out of the fruits in a hair hag, and first sti-ain, and then filter each separately into the cask ; stir into it thirty-six pounds of strong, bright moist sugar, and coveiing the bung-hole with a tile, leave it to fennent without yeast. Keep the cask filled up, and when it has ceased hissing, add to it two quarts of French brandy, then stop it up securely at the bung, but leave the vent-peg- out three days, then fasten that in, and set the barrel in a cool ceUar for three months. It must now be racked and returned into the cask, the lees being well filtered, the bung well secured, and left nine months; then bottle it, seal the corks, and keep it in bottle a year longer. Raspberry and Rhubarb Jam (an ex- cellent family preserve). —Choose sound, newly- gathered raspberries and well-grown juicy rhu- barb, and weigh them after the rhubarb has been pared and the raspberries have been stripped from the stalks. Take double the weight of raspberries to that of rhubarb, and allow three pounds of powdered loaf sugar to every four pounds of fruit. Slice the rhubarb, put it into a preserving-pan, and let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour from the time it begins to boil, stirring it occasionally to keep it from burning to the bottom of the pan. Add the raspberries, and boil them half an hour. Stir in the sugar, and boil the jam until it will set when a Httle is put upon a plate. Pour it immediately into jars, and cover these in the usual way. Keep the jam in a dry airy place. Probable cost, G^d. per lb. Raspberry Biscuits.—Pick and weigh some fine ripe raspberries, put them in an earthen jar, sut this in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiUng until the juice flows freely. Pass juice and pulp through a sieve, mix with it the weight of tho fruit—before it was put into the oven -in pounded sugar, and boil briskly, boating it well all tlio time until it forms a dry paste, and bo very careful tliat it does not buin. Put it into small moulds about lialf an inch thick ; dry these in a hot screen or a cool oven for twenty-four liours or more, and store for use. Kaspljerry biscuits are used for dessert. Time, about three hours. Proljable cost of raspberries, 2d. to Gd. per pint. Raspberry Blancmange.—Take two pottles of raspberries. Bruise the fruit a little, and place it in a preserving-pan high above a cleai- fire, that the juice may be gently drawn from it. Soak an ounce and a half of gelatine in cold spring water for an hour. Strain the juice from the raspberries, and boil it with half a pound of loaf sugar and the gelatine until the latter is dissolved. Add gradually three- quarters of a pint of cream, and stir this well in. Pour the blancmange into a damp mould, and put it in a cold place until it is set. Turn it out, and serve. Time, altogether, one hour and a half. Raspberry Brandy (sometimes called liaspberry Ratafia).—Strip the stalks from a quart of freshly-gathered ripe raspberries, put them into a bowl, and pour over them two quarts of genuine brandy. Stir the fruit in the liquor, and bruise it well, cover it closely to exclude the air, and let it soak for ten or twelve days. Add half a pound of loaf sugar boiled with two or three table-spoonfuls of water till it is a clear syrup. Stir this well in, strain the hquor thi-ough a jeUy-bag, and bottle it. At the end of a fortnight pour it out gently, filter it, and when bright and clear put it into fresh bottles, cork these closely, and store for use. Or, bruise the fruit a little, and gently draw the juice from it. Add half a pint of good brandv to a quart of the juice, together with a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to syrup. Strain the liqueur, and bottle closely. A larger pro- portion of sugar may be used if liked. Raspberry Brandy (another way).— Gather the fruit in fine weather, and pick it nicely; measure it, and jiut it into a clean stone jar , fix in the bung, tie leather over it, and set it in a saucepan of hot water on the fire, or on a hot hearth, to boil tiU the juice is all extracted. Strain off the liquor through a fine sieve, and add for each quart of fruit one pound of best loaf sugar roughly broken; boil it ten minutes, skimming all the time. When cold, measure tlie s>Tup, and adding to it the siime quantity of French brandy, mix them well ten minutes at least. Then "filter it clear; fill half pint bottles, corking and sealing them, and keeit the liqueur twelve months. Raspberry Brandy (another way).-5<>c Brandy, Raspberry. Raspberry Cake.—Pick a pint of freshly- gathered ripe raspberries. Put them into a saucepan, sprinkle two table-spoonfuls of sugar over them, and shake the saucepan over a gentle fire until the juice flows. Before tho rasp- berries can fall, lift them out, boil the syrup till it is clear and thick, and jiour it out. Beat to a cream a piece of fresh butter the size of a large egg. Add a table-spoonful of powdonnl