QUE ( 674 ) QUA -with thorn a minced swootbread, two or threo ounces of gmtod Ixum, und a littlo chopped parsley, minced shallot, and popper and salt. Bind the forcemeat together with tho yolk of an egg. Lay tho birds open on the table, skin downwards. Divide tho forcemeat equally amongst them, and spread half of it upon tho birds. Lay vipon each a slice of cold tongue, a spoonful of chopped truffle, if this can bo had, and afterwards the rest of tho force- meat. lloU each bird to an oval shape, and tie it in a piece of old napkin. Lay tho birds side by side, and put with them tho bones and trimmings, a littlo pepper and salt, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and either a knuckle of veal or a calf's foot. Cover with nicely-flavoured stock, and let tho quails simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take the saucepan from the fire, and let the birds remain in tho liquor until they are nearly cold. Drain them, take them out of the napkins, and brush them over with glaze. Boil the sauce quickly to a jelly, and strain it. If it is not quite clear, clarify it with white of egg. Boil a pound of rice in a quart of water slightly salted, until it is quite tender, and the liquid is absorbed. Beat well till it is smooth, then press it into a plain round mould. "When it is cold and stiff, turn it upon the centre of a large dish. Brush it over with clarified butter, and rest the quails in an upright position upon it. Garnish the dish with the gravy jeUy, cut into dice, and the galantine will be ready for serving. Any small birds may be served in the same way. Pro- bable cost of quails, when cheap, Is. each. Suf- cient for a moderate-sized supper dish. Quails, Galantine of (another way).— See Galantine of Quails. Quails, Hoast.—Draw the birds or not according to taste. Truss them finnly, and tie over the breasts a vine-leaf covered with a slice of fat bacon. Roast before a clear fire, and baste well. When done enough brush the bacon over with glaze, and serve the birds on a hot dish ; garnish with watercresses. Pour good brown gravy round but not over the quails. If the birds are not drawn before being roasted they should be served on a slice of toast, which has been placed in the pan under them to catch the trails. Time to roast the quails, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, when plentiful, Is. each. Sufficient, two for a dish. Quails, Trussing of.—Pluck, draw, and singe the quail. Cut off the neck close to the back, and the wings at the first pinion. Truss the legs close to the body, and pass a skewer through tlie pinions and thighs. Quaking Pudding.—Scald a quart of (ream ; when almost cold, put to it four well- heaten eggs, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmeg, and sugar. Tie the pudding in a buttered cloth, and boil for an hour. Turn it out carefully, lest it should crack. Serve with melted butter, a little wine, and sugar. Quass.—A sort of weak beer, a favourite beverage among the people in Russia, goes under this name. It is produced by fermenting rye-meal in warm water, and is usually bottlt-d in stone bottlos. When it becomes too sour it does service as vinegar. Queen Adelaide's Pudding. — Beat eight ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Mix with it eight ounces of finely-sifted sugar, lialf a pound of diied flour, two ounces of tliiuly- shced candied peel, four ounces of picked and dried currants, and a qujirter of a tea-spoonful of essence of ahnonds or essence of lemon. "\Vliisk tho yolks and whites of six fresh eggs, first separately, and afterwards together. Add them to the other ingredients, and beat the mixture for several minutes. Pour it into a well-buttered mould, cover with buttered paper, and afterwards tie in a cloth, and boil or steam the pudding. Turn it out carefully on a hot dish, and pour wine sauce round but not over it. Time to boil, two hours and a half. Pro- bable cost, 28. Sufficient for five or six per- sons. Queen Cakes.—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream. Add gradually half a pound of loaf sugar, one pound of dried flour, half a pound of picked currants, and a flavouring either of grated lemon-rind, grated nutmeg, or almonds. Beat the yolk and whites of three eggs, first separately, and afterwards together. Mix with them a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, which has been dissolved in a table- spoonful of hot milk, and a small tea-spoonful of tliick cream. Stir this mixture into the cake, and beat thoroughly for several minutes. Butter some small queen-cake tins or patty- pans, half fill them with the batter, and bake in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes. Queen-cake tins are generally made heart- shaped. Probable cost, 'is. 4d. for this quantity. Queen Cakes (another way).—Put half a pound of fine flour into a bowl. MLv with it a small pinch of salt, half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted, six ounces of currants, picked and dried, and a flavouring of either powdered cinnamon, grated nutmeg, grated lemon-rind, or pounded almonds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Cut half a pound of fresh butter into small pieces, beat to a cream, and add gradually five well-beaten eggs, two table-spoonfuls of rose-water or brandy, and the strained juice of a lemon. Stir the flour, spice, &c., gradually into this mixture, and beat the batter for several minutes. Butter some queen-cake tins, half fill them with the batter, and bake in a brisk oven. '\\Tien done enough, turn them out, and place them upside down to cool. If liked, these cakes may be coated with icing after they are baked. To do this put the white of an egg into a bowl, and mix gradually Avith it a quarter of a pound or finely-sifted loaf sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and work these together with a spoon until the paste is white, shining, and thick. Spread a little of this u])on the oakc and put in a cool oven, or in a warm screen, to dry. Time to bake the cakes, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Queen Cakes (another way).—Wash a pound of fresh butter in rose-water. Beat it to a cream, and mix ■«'ith it first the whites of