( 796 ) SAX SAL of thick cream mixed with a well-mashed floury potato will greatly improve this salad. "Wash the lettuce, dry it perfectly, shred it finely, and just before it is wanted mix the salad dressing lightly with it. Salad of Herrings.—Soak a couple of herrings in milk for an hour to take out the salt. Bone them, and tear the flesh into flakes. Mix with them half a dozen cold boiled potatoes cut in slices as for potato salad, and add a salt-spoonful of finely-minced onion. IVIix the ingredients thoroughly, and work lightly into them a simple salad dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. This salad should be a little moist, therefore add a spoonful or two of milk to the dressing if it is too dry. If liked, cold meat finely minced, sour apples, and boiled beet- root may be put into it. The di-essing should be added just before the salad is about to be served. Probable cost of hei-rings. Id. to 2d. each. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Salad Oil.—The source of this oil is the olive {Olea curopmd). The plant is cultivated extensively in France, Italy, and Spain. When the fruit is ripe it contains oil in great abun- dance. Between eleven and twelve thousand gallons of this oil are annually imported into this country, principally for consumption as a dressing in salads. It is much more largely used on the Continent, where it takes the place of butter. It is a very wholesome article, and it would be well if people in this country would cultivate a taste for its use, especially in making salads. " In this coimtry," says a weU-known authority, " these very valu- able adj\mcts to our food are rendered ex- ceedingly disagreeable; first, by the want of dr}'ing the plant used; and in the next by its being deluged with vinegar. A salad properly prepared should have the leaves of the plant used dried to such an extent that they will readily absorb the dressing poured over them, which should consist of two-thirds or three- fourths olive oil. I need not also add that the oil should not be rancid; but such is the thorough carelessness with which these articles are put on our tables, that in nine cases out of ten the oil is rancid and unfit for use. This, perhaps, accounts for the flood of vinegar to drown its flavour." Salad, Red Cabbage. — Take a red cabbage with a firm heart and two heads of celery. Shred the best pfirts of both finely, and mix them together. Work them up lightly with a spoonful or two of good salad sauce, garnish the dish with tufts of celery, and then serve. Salad, Roman.—The Romans used salad, and made it in this way:—Cultivated endive was cut small after careful washing and drain- ing, then gravy and oil were poured over it; finely-minced onions were strewed over the whole, then a little vinegar and honey were added, and the salad was sent to table. Salad Sandwiches.—Prepare the bread in the usual way, and have ready some mustard and cross, watercress, aU well washed and dried; put them into a bowl with mayonnaise sauce, and when ready for serving, spread the salad neatly between the bread. Salad Sandwiches (another way).— Take some thin slices of broad. Butter these slightly, and just before they are to be used lay between two of them a little salad, washed, dried, and tossed lightly in mayonnaise sauce. Press the sandwiches closely together, cut them into small neat pieces, and serve. Salad Sauce.—Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a dessert-spoonful of grated Par- mesan cheese, a little made mustard, a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup. When well incorporated, add four spoonfuls of salad oil and one spoon- ful of elder vinegar. Beat so as to incorporate the oil with the other ingTedients. This mix- ture must not be pom'ed upon the lettuce or vegetables used in the salad, but be left at the bottom, to be stirred up when wanted. This method preserves the crispness of the lettuce. Observe that the liquid ingi'edients must be proportioned to the quantity of vegetables used. Salad Sauce, Mayonnaise.—Put the yolk of an egg carefully freed from the white into a basin, and with a fork take away th speck. Beat it lightly, add a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, pour some oil u^Don it, drop by drop at first, and at the same time beat the sauce lightly and quickly. "VSTien it begins to thicken slightly increase the quantity of oil, and continue beating until it forms a thick smooth yellow paste. Add gradually as much white wine vinegar as will suit the palate. The quantity requii-ed will of course vary con- siderably, according to indi-sadual taste. The correct proportion is one tea-spoonful of vine- gar to eight of oil. Keep the sauce in a cool place till wanted. A little tarragon vinegar will greatly improve this excellent sauce. Salad Sauce, Trout in.—Fry two or three trout in the usual way. Lay them on blotting paper to free them from fat, and put them aside till cold. ^Vhcn they are to be used lay them on a dish, pour some thick salad sauce over them, and garnish the dish with shred chervil and chives, or with lettuce hearts cut into quarters. Salad, Stuffed Eggs for.—Remove the skin and bone from three anchovies, pound the flesh in a mortar, and'press it through a sieve. If the anchovies are objected to, substitute for them two ounces of potted ham and two ounces of veal and fat bacon. Boil si.x eggs for a quarter of an hour ; put them into cold water, then strip oflE the shell, and cut them into halves lengthwise. Take out the hard yolks, and put them in a mortar with a third of their bulk in fresh butter, the pounded anchovies, a pinch of powdered mace, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound all to a smooth paste, press the mixture into the eggs in the place where the yolks were, put the halves of the eggs together to make them look whole again, lay them on a dish, and surround them with lettuce-hearts. Send salad cream to table separately. Salad, Swedish.—Take a pickled herring, remove the skin and bones, cut the flesh into dice, and mix with it its btilk in cold-dressed beef, boiled potatoes, and sour juicy apples, all