PHE ( 644 ) PHE and season it inside and out Avith salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Tut it into a dish breast downwards, and pour over it live or six ounces of dissolved butter. Cover the pan with a coarse paste made of ilour and water, and balte in a moderate oven. When the bird is suffi- ciently baked, take it from the oven, and di-ain the butter from it. Let it got cold, then put it into a pot breast downwards, and cover with clarified butter. \VTion the butter is set, tie a double fold of paper over it, and store in a cool place. If preferred, the bird can be divided into joints after it is baked, and packed closely into the pan. The advantage of this plan wiU be that much less butter will be required to cover it than if the bird were potted whole. Time to bake, .ibout one hour. Probable cost of the pheasants, 3s. each when in full season. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pheasant, Potted (another way).—Pick the meat from a cold roast pheasant, mince it finely, and pound in a mortar to a smooth paste; put the bones into a stewpan with a quart of strong stock, two ounces of lean ham, three shallots, two table-spoonfuls of sherry, two table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a dozen peppercorns. Boil this down quickly until it is reduced to a glaze {see Glaze), then strain through a fine hair sieve, and mix with the meat. Add five or six ounces of clarified butter, and a little salt, and cayenne. Pound these ingredients together, and press the mixture into small potting-jars. Pour over them clarified butter to the thickness of half an inch, and store in a cool, dry place. Probable cost, 4s., with pheasants at Ss. each. Pheasant, Roast. — Pluck, draw, and singe a brace of pheasants. Wipe them with a dry cloth, truss them firmly, and either lard them or tie round the breasts a slice of fat ■bacon. Flour them well, put them before a clear fire, and baste liberally. When they are done enough, remove the bacon, serve the birds on a hot dish, and garnish with watercresses. Send good, brown gravy a,nd bread sauce to table with them. If the fashion is liked, half a dozen of the best of the tail- feathers may be stuck into the bird when it is dished. Time, three-quarters of an hour to roast a good-sized pheasant. The drumsticks are excellent when devilled. Sufficient for four or five persons. Pheasant, Roast, To Carve—Fix the fork in the centre of the breast, and cut slices ROAST PHEASANT. off evenly on eitlicr side. Should there be more guests to parfcxke of the roast pheasant than these slices will satisfy, disengage the legs and wings in the same numner as is done when carving boiled fowl. In taking oft the wings, be careful not to cut too near the neck ; if you do, you will hit upon the neck-bone, from which the wing must bo separated. Out off the merry- thought by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merry-thought of a pheasant are the most highly prized; but the log has a superior flavour. Pheasant, Salmi of.—Roast a weU-hung pheasant until it is a little more than half- di-essed, then take it from the fire, and when it is almost cold, cut it into neat joints, and carefully remove the skin and fat. Put the meat aside until wanted, and place the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with an ounce of fresh butter, a sprig of thyme, and a bay- leaf, and stir these ingredients over a slow fire until they are lightly browned ; then pour over them half a pint of good brown sauce, and a glassful of sherry. Let them simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; strain the gravy, skim it carefully, add a pinch of cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon, and put it back into the saucepan with the pieces of game. Let them heat very gradually, and on no account allow them to boil. Pile them on a hot dish, pour the hot sauce over them, and garnish with fried sippets. If there is no brown sauce at hand, it may be prepared as follows:—Mince finely a quarter of a pound of the lean of an unboiled ham, and put it into a saucepan, with two ounces of fresh butter, a shaUot, a large scraped carrot, two or three mushrooms (if at hand), a blade of mace, a small sprig of thyme, a handful of parsley, two cloves, and half a dozen peppercorns. Stir these over a slow fire until they are brightly browned; then dredge a table- spoonful of flour over them, and let it colour also. Pour in gradually three-quarters of a pint of water, and a glassful of sherry, and add a little salt, and the bones and trimmings of the pheasant; let the sauce boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it keep simmering for an hour and a half. Strain the gravy, and skim carefuUy. Put it back into the saucepan with the joints of meat, a lump of sugar, and a little lemon-juice, or Seville orange-juice; heat slowly, and serve as above. Time, twenty to thirty minutes to roast the pheasant, a quarter of an hour in the first instance, or an hour and a half in the second, to simmer the sauce. Probable cost. Is., exclusive of the pheasant. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pheasant, Sea {see PintaU or Sea Pheasant). Pheasant Soup.—no"r a well-hung pheasant rather thickly, put it down to a brisk tire, and roast it for'a quarter of an hour, basting it plentifully all the time. Take it from the fire, and let it get nearly cold; then take off the flesh from the breast and the upper part of the wings, slcin it, and put it aside. Cut up the rest of the bird, and briiise the bones. Scrape a small carrot finely, put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, an ounce of the