( 1060 ) VjjJA pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of fat previously Loilod, or aa much fat hacon, also boiled. Jioil in milk a French roll with an onion, a bay-leaf, a suiall pinch of cayenne, white pepper, and wilt. Drain off the milk, remove the bay-loaf, and beat the pounded veai and broad through a coarse sieve. Mix in a beaten egg, and make into rolls with a little I flour. Boil these in separate floured cloths, 1 and servo turned out on a dish, with gravy^ white or brown, and a little lemon-juice. Time, j ten or twelve minutes to boil. Probable cost, about Is. Veal, Jugged.—Take from two to three pounds of lean vt;al, cut it into neat slices convenient for serving, and season with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Put the slices into an earthen jar, pour over them half a pint of strong stock, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs and a roll of thin lemon-rind. Cover the jar closely by tying over it two or three folds of paper. Put it in a dripping-tin three-parts filled with boiling water, and place it in a moderately-heated oven. Let it remain till the meat is tender. Take it out, remove the herbs and the lemon-rind ; thicken the gxavy with a little brown thickening, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve the meat on a hot dish with the gravy poured over it. Time to stew the meat, two hours and a half to three hours. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Veal, Jugged (another way).—Cut some slices of veal, and put them into an earthen jug \vith a blade of mace, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a sprig of sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel. Cover the jug closely, that the steam may not get out; set it in a pot of boiling water, and about three hours will do the meat. About half an houi- before it is done, put in a bit 'of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon-juice or lemon pickle. Turn it out of the jug into a dish; take out the herbs and lemon-peel, and send it to table garnished with lemon. Veal, Kebobbed.—Cut some lean veal into thin slices about an inch and a half in diameter, and not more than a quarter of an inch thick, and season each one of these with pepper, salt, powdered mace, and a little tur- meric. Fasten them alternately with thin slices of onion and slices of pickled pork upon small skewers. Fry them in butter till they are suf- ficiently cooked, or fasten the skewers to a spit, and roast the meat before a clear fire, basting liberally dirring the process; drain them, and serve on a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. If liked, after the veal is fried it may be stewed in good currj' gravy flavoured with lemon-juice, and served with dry rice. Veal Kernels,—There are ten kernels in each ciilf—four in each leg, and one in each shoulder. Those in the shoulders are considered much the best. French cooks trim, cook, and press these as directed for Tendons of Veal, and serve them in a circle on a dish, with, a puree of vegetables in the centre. Kernels are very v.ariable in price: they are cheapest in March, April, and May. About a dozen 8X0 required for a dish. Veal Kidney,—A veal kidney should not properly bo se]jarated from the loin, but should be roasted and served with it. If wished, however, it may bo cut oif, and may then be served with stows of veal, or minced and made mto forcemeat, and served on fried brc^-ad, or it may be broiled or fried like a sheep's kidney. Veal Kidney (a la maitre d'h6tel).—Cut a veal kidney in half lengthwise. Season the pieces with salt and pepper, dip them in clari- fled butter, and afterwards in bread-crumbs, and broil until sufficiently cooked. Put two ounces of fresh butter on a plate, and with Ihe point of a knife work well into it a dessert- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, a pinch of salt, another of pepper, and four or five drops of strained lemon-juice. Work these ingie- dients well together until the mixture is of the consistency of thick cream. When thoroughly mixed, put the butter on a hot dish, place the broiled kidney upon it, and serve. Time, seven or eight minutes to broil the veal kidney ; three or four minutes to mix * the sauce. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for one person. Veal Kidney, Broiled,-Skin the kid- ney, and cut it ia halves lengthwise. Flatten these, season with salt and cayenne, dip them in clarified butter, and bread-crumb them. BroU over a clear fire, and serve on a hot dish with a small piece of maitre d'hotel butter under them. This butter may be made as follows:—Pick and wash half an ounce of parsley. Chop it small, then put it in the comer of a napkin, dip it in cold water, and wring it diy. Put it in a basin with a little pepper and salt, three ounces of butter, and a dessert-spoon- ful of lemon-juice. Beat it with a wooden spoon or a knife till it looks like cream, when it will be ready for use. If it is placed too near the fire to melt the butter the preparation will be spoilt Time to broil the kidney, eight minutes—four minutes to each side. Veal Kidney Cakes.—Take a cold veal kidney, mince finely both fat and lean, and mix with it an equal weight of finely-grated bread- crumbs. Season rather highly -with pepper and salt, and bind the mixture together -with the yolk of a well-beaten egg. Form it into cakes, dip these into melted butter, and afterwards into finely-grated bread-crumbs, and fry them in a httlo hot butter or lard till brightly browned. Drain the fat from them before serving, and arrange neatly on a dish garnished with parsley. Send good brown sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the cakes, about ten minutes. Probable cost, *6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Veal Kidneys, Roasted,—Take two veal kidneys from a loin of veal which has been .roasted vmtil done enough. Jlincc them finely with some fat, and add a table-s]ioonful of flavoxiring made of mushrooms which have been stewed in butter, then chopped small, and mixed with parsley, thj-mc. and onion also fried. SoJison the forcemeat wnth salt and cayenne, and bind it together with raw egg. Cut one or two slices of stale crumb of bread into neat shapes. Fry these in hot fat till they are brightly browned on both sides, then drain