PIC ( 648 ) PIC paste by mixinp^ thoni smootlily with a littlo cold vinogar, add thoin to i\w viuogur iu the jur, and mix thoroughly. Cover tho pan very closely, keep it in a warm place, and stir it every day for a month witli a wooden spoon. Gather different vogotablos as they come into season, prepare them as for piccallilli [soc Piccal- lilli), see that they are perfectly dry, and put them into the pickle. When no further addi- tions aro to bo made, put the pickle into earthen jars, cover closely, tie down with moistened bladder, and store in a dry place. As the vegetables absorb tho liquid, add fresh vinegar, and stir the pickle with a wooden spoon. This pickle must be kept twelve months from the time it is begun to be made before it is used. Pickles, Poisonous.—In Accum's well- known " Death in tho Pot," under the head of Foisonous Fickles, we have the following infor- mation as to the greening of pickles :—" Vege- table substances preserved in the state called pickles, by means of the antiseptic power of vinegar, whose sale frequently depends greatly upon a fine lively green colour, and the con- sumption of which, by seafaring men in particular, is prodigious, are sometimes inten- tionally coloured by means of copper. Gher-. kins, French beans, samphire, the green pods of capsicum, and many other pickled vegetable substances, oftener than is perhaps expected, are met with impregnated with this metal. Numerous fatal consequences are known to have ensued from the use of these stimulants to the palate, to which the fresh and pleasing hue has been imparted according to the deadly formulae laid down in some modem cookery- books, such as boiling the pickle with halfpence, •or suffering them to stand for a considerable period in brazen vessels." " Among the many recipes," says Dr. Hassall, -writing on the adulteration of food, "which modem authors of cookery-books have given for imparting a green colour to pickles, the following are particularly deserving of censure, and it is to be hoped that they will be sup- pressed in future editions of the works from which they are extracted :— " ' To Pickle Gherkins.—Boil the vinegar in a bell-metal or copper pot; pour it boiling hot . over your cucumbers.' " ' 7b make Greeninff.—Take a bit of verdigris the bigness of a hazel-nut, finely-powdered, half a pint of distilled vinegar, and a bit of alum powder, with a little bay salt. Put all in a bottle, shake it, and let it stand till clear. Pour a tea-spoonful into codlings, or whatever you wish to green.' " One author directs—' To render pickles green, boil them with halfpence, or allow them ito stand for twenty-four hours in copper or .brass pans.' . . " To detect the presence of copper it is only .Tiecossary to mince the pickles and to pour .liquid ammonia, diluted with an equal bulk of water, over them in a stoppered vial: if tho pickles contain the minutest quantity of copper, the ammonia will assume a blue colour.'' Another very simple and efficient method ot detecting the presence of copper in pickles la the following :—Put throe or four drops of the 8U8i)(!cted vinegar on the blade of a knife; add one di o]) of sulpliuiic acid, and lieat tho under Buii'ace of tho knife over the flame of a candle; tlie vinegar in evaporating will deposit the coi)per upon tho iron if any be present. Another easy way of detecting this adulteration is to take a clear and bright piec(; of iron—a bit of wire will do—and immerse it for a few hours in the vinegar of the pickle. If co])per is present, tho metal will be deposited in a per- ceptible though thin crust upon the iron. Pickles, Summer, for present use. —Cut equal quantities of young onions, sour apples, and fresh cucumbers into tliin slices. With,these fill an imglazed earthen jar which will hold a quart of liquid. Shake in with the vegetables a dessert-spoonful of salt and a tea- spoonful and a half of cayenne. Pour in four table-spoonfuls of sherry and four table-spoon- fuls of soj"^, and as much vinegar as the jar will hold, and cover closely until wanted. If it is wished^ to make this pickle in the autumn or winter, finely-minced celery may be sub- stituted for the cucumbers. The pickle can be used the day it is made. Pickles. Sweet American.—Take seven pounds of damsons, or -ssTnesours, four pounds of pounded loaf sugar, an ounce of stick cinna- mon, an ounce of cloves, and a pint of ■vinegar. Lay the fruit and the other dry ingredients, in layers, in a deep stone jar, and pour the vinegar over aU. Put the jar into a large pan of boning water, and keep boiling until the sugar is thoroughly [dissolved and the juice of the fruit extracted, then put the jar in a cool place. The next day drain off the syrup, boil it, and pour it over. the fruit: repeat this process six or seven successive days until the skin looks hard and the plums clear. Let the preparation stand a week, then take the plums out one by one, place them in jars, boil the syrup, and fill up the jars with it. "When cold, put brandy-papers over, and tie a bladder on the top to keep the air out, or the pickles will lose their colour. Pears, apples, peaches, and cherries can all be pickled in tMs way, and will be found delicious. A little cochineal in a bag dropped in the jar wiU improve the colour greatly. If kept in a dry place, they will keep six or seven years. Time, three weeks. Cost varies nearly every year. Pickles, Wholesomeness of.— " Pickles," says Dr. Graham, in his " Domestic Medicine," "are merely vegetable receptacles for vinegar, but the vegetable being hardened by the acid, renders it somewhat difiicult of digestion, and therefore pickles are not much to be recommended. The pickled onion seems to be among the most wholesome of this sort of condiment." Pickling Jars.—Some sensible remarks on this head are given in the " Encyclopajdia of Domestic Economy:"—As vinegar is a corro- sive substance, capable of dissolving several metals, and likewise some of the glazes of earthenware which contain lead, great care must be taken in selecting proper vessels to pre- pare and keep pickles in, otherwise dangerous consequences may ensue, from poisonous matter