( 666 ) PIG PIG cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pig's Head and Feet in Brawn.— Tiiko the head and i'eot of a fully-grown purkor, iind cleanse them thoroughly. Prepare them, by splitting open the head, cutting off the ears and snout, romov-ing tho brains and eyes, scraping tho feet, and, if necessary, singeing the coverings of tho toes until they are loose, and can bo taken oft"; then sprinkle salt freely over the head, feet, and ears, and leave thcni to di-ain for twenty-four hours. At tho end of that time wipe them all dry, put them into a deep pan, and rub into them an ounce and a half of powdered saltpetre, mixed with half a pound of moist sugar ; and add, in a few hours, half a pound of common salt. The following day pour a cupful of strong vinegar over them, and turn and baste them every day for a week. Wash them in one or two waters, and put them into a stewpan, with as much lukewarm water as cover them, and let them simmer until tender, so that the bones can be easily drawn out from both the head and feet. Cut the gristle from the thick part of the ears. Wipe the moat, lay it on a flat board, and season it equally in every part with a mixture made of a tea-spoonful and a half of powdered mace, mixed with a large nutmeg, grated, a salt- spoonful of powdered cloves, and a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Fut one cheek, skin down- wards, upon a board, lay the feet and ears upon it and on the top of the other cheek, and make it as even as possible, by laying the thick part of one cheek upon the thin part of the other. Roll it as tightly as possible, and bind securely with pieces of broad tape. Fasten a cloth over the meat, and sew it up at both ends. Lay it in a stewpan, and put with it the bones and trimmings of the head and feet, two onions, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two or three sticks of celery, and a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Simmer all gently together for two hours, then lift_ the stewpan ofE the fire, and leave the meat in it undisturbed until the liquid is half cold. Take off the cloth, put the brawn between two dishes, .place a weight upon these, and let the brawn lie until it is cold and stiff. Then, and not before, remove the tapes, and serve as required. The brawn should be cut in thin slices, and will be found excellent for breakfast, supper, or luncheon. If liked, the feet can be omitted, and the head only used. Time, two hours and a half to three hours to boil plainly; two hours to boil after being rolled. Sufficient for a breakfast or supper dish. Pig's Head, Boiled—Take a pig's head which has been salted by the butcher, or if more convenient, pickle it at home. To do this, ecald and cleanse it thoroughly. Ecmovo the hair, the snout, the eyes, and the brain. Soak it for twenty-four hours, then cover it with one pound of common salt mixed with an ounce of saltpetre, and turn and baste it every day for five or six days. Drain it, put it into a sauce- pan cover with cold water, and put it on the tire,' skim the liquid carefully, and simmer tho head gently for two hours from the time when tho water boils. Send it to table with peas pudding, and boiled greens. The liquor in which the liead was boiled may be converted into excellent pea-soup. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Pig's Head, Collared. — Scald and clean a pig's head, and remove the hair, the snout, the eyes, and the brain. Let it soak in cold water for twelve hours, drain it, and sprinkle over it one pound of common salt mixed with a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, and turn and baste it every day for five days. Wash it, put it into a saucepan half filled with cold water, bring it to the boil, and skim care- fully, then simmer gently until the bones can be easily drawn out. SpHt the head open, season rather highly with black and Jamaica pepper and salt, and roll it evenly by laying the thick part of one cheek to the thin part of the other. Put the head into a cloth, and bind securely, and as lightly as possible, with broad tape. Place it in a stewpan, cover with stock or water, and let it simmer gently until done enough. Lay it between two dishes, place a heavy weight upon it, and let it remain until cold; then turn it out of the cloth, and send to table on a neatly-folded napkin. The feet of the pig may be used as well as the head, or one cheek only with a couple of cow-heels. If it is wished that tho pig's head should bo collared like brawn, use a larger proportion of saltpetre than is directed above, put in with tho cheeks some pieces of lean pork, and cover the whole with cow-heel. The collared head may, if liked, be kept in a pickle, made of the liquid in which it was boiled, salted, and mixed with vinegar. This pickle should be boiled fre- quently. Time to boil, two hours or more the hrst time, two hours the second. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for a breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish. Pig's Head, Collared (a German recipe). —Take a freshly-kiUed pig's head, and spUt it open lengthways. Singe and cleanse it care- fully, and take out the brains. Bone it, without injuring the outer skin, and spread it open, skin downwards, upon a table. Sprinkle salt and pepper upon it, and spread evenly and thickly over it a suitable forcemeat. If preferred, minced liver can be substituted for the pork, and a few bread-crumbs can be added. Lay on the forcemeat the tongue of the pig, cut into neat shoes, and some strips of lean pork, and between these half a dozen strips of bacon and five or six sliced pickled gherkins, and if there is room, two shced kidneys, with some slices of veal. Cover these with another layer of forcemeat, lay the head upon the top, press the two parts closely, and sew them together securely willi soft cotton. Tie the head in a bladder that has been soaked in three or four waters, and put it into a stewpan, with the bones and trimmings of the head, two calf's feet, and as much cold water as will cover it. Add three or four sticks of celery, half a dozen shallots, two bay-lcavcs, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thj-me, five or six crushed cloves, and a quarter of a jiint of vinog.ir. Lot tho water conio to a boil, then skim^it carcfullv, and let it simmer gently, until a skewer "will pierce the head easily. Leave it in the liquid until it is half cold, then