woo ( 1149 ) WOO with the addition of two or three fat livers of fowls make the following forcemeat:—Take half a dozen mushrooms chopped very fine, a shallot and some pai-sley the same ; fry these herbs in a small bit of butter. When they are neai'ly done, put the fat, livers, and the intestines of the woodcocks to fry with them, and when done put the whole into a mortar and pound them very fine; season with salt and pepper, &c.; rub this thi'ough a tammy ; then, as three ■woodcocks give you six fillets, cut six bits of bread of the same shape, fry them of a nice colour, then spread the farce (forcemeat) equally divided over the six pieces of bread, put them into the oven, and when they are a good coloxir serve them between each of the fillets; as for the sauce, you make it with the trimmings as usual for salmi: this, well managed, is a deli- cious dish. The sauce must be made early, so as to keep the fillets in it to prevent them from drying ; then warm them without boiling, for boiling would make the dish good for nothing. Serve the legs in the middle. Woodcock, Scotch, or Woodcock Toast.—Take a slice of bread from a moderate- sized stale loaf, also three anchovies, one egg, and two or three table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Beat the yolk of the egg, mix it with the cream, and stir the mixture over the fire till it thickens, but it must not boil. Toast the bread, butter well on both sides, and cut it in halves. Wash, scrape, and mince the anchovies, put them between the pieces of toast, pour the cream, &c., over the toast, and serve as hot as possible. Time, five minutes to make the sauce hot. Probable cost, 6d. Suflicient for one person. Woodcock (sportsman's fashion).—Truss three woodcocks, and put them down to a clear fire. At the end of a quarter of an hour take them up, and divide them into neat joints. Put the inferior portions into a saucepan, with four minced shallots and a sprig of thyme, and add a wine-glassful of good gravy, another of wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Let the gravy simmer for ten minutes. Remove the gizzards from the traU of the woodcocks, and pound them in a mortar, with half a shallot, a slice of fresh butter, and a little pepper and salt. When smooth, rub it through a sieve, and spread it upon some small pieces of fried bread cut into the shape of hearts. Before using these, put them in the oven for two or three minutes. Put the joints of the woodcocks into a separate saucepan, strain the gravy upon them, and let them heat gently without boiling. Place them on a dish, put the fried bread, with the trail, round them, pour the gravy over all, and serve very hot. Time, quarter of an hour to roast the woodcocks; ten minutes to simmer the gravy. Woodcock, Spurious.—Some years ago a curious deception used to be practised by the inferior poulterers in London upon genuine cockneys, who were ambitious of having game, at their tables. " The grey plover was some- times trussed like a woodcock, its bill cut off, and the bill of a real woodcock inserted instead; the bills of these latter birds being purchased from the cooks of wealthy families." If sucu a deception is ever practised nowadays, the obvious way to discover the fraud would be to give the bill a good tug." Woodcock, Stuffed.—Pluck and singe the birds, take ont the inside, chop it fine with bacon, parsley, onion, salt, and pepper; mix it with the yolks of two eggs ; fill the woodcocks with this forcemeat, sew them together, and truss as for roasting. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of bacon, put in the birds, and cover them also with bacon; let them simmer for a quarter of an houi-, pour in a cup- ful of broth and half a glassful of white wine ; let it boil over a gentle fire. When done enough, take out the birds and lay them on a dish; skim the fat off the sauce, strain it, add a dash of vinegar, and pour it over the birds. Woodcock, Stuffed and Boasted.— Pluck and di-aw two woodcocks. Remove the gizzards, then mince the trail finely with half its weight in fat bacon, and add a dessert- spoonfiJ. of chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt. A little very finely-minced shallot may be added, if liked. Truss the woodcocks, and roast them in the usual way. Send them to table with gravy in a tureen. Woodcock, Surprised.—Put the trail of the cold woodcocks, and two or three fat livers of fowls, upon a plate in readiness. Then chop very fine a dozen mushrooms, two shal- lots, and a little parsley, and fry them in a stewpan with a small bit of fi-esh butter. When they are nearly done, put the trail and livers to fry a little with the vegetables. Pound the whole in a marble mortar verj'^ fine, mixing the several ingi-edients weU together. Season with salt, pepper, and the least possible dash of pounded mixed spice. Now fry of a nice colour six slices of bread of the same size and shape, and spread over them in equal portions the forcemeat you have just made with the trails of the woodcocks and the fowls' livers. Put them into the OA^en until they are of a good colour, then lay them on a dish, and over them place the limbs of the birds made into a salmi in the usual way, and pour the salmi sauce over the whole. Woodcock, Terrine of (M. Dubois's recipe).—Bone two woodcocks, divide each of them in two, which pieces put into a pie-dish (terrine) with five or six peeled truffles cut in quarters, the same volume of cooked ham-fat, or fat bacon, in large dice. Season the meat and truffles lightly, and baste with the third part of a glass of madeira. Take off the flesh from a leg of hare, cut it in pieces, fry it in a stew- pan, with double its volume of liver of poultry or game. When weU set, add the trails of the woodcocks, then let the whole cool, to be chopped afterwards with a third its volume of lean pork. Season the forcemeat, put it into a "^o^a^' pound, and add to it the same quantity of fresh fat bacon, previously chopped, and pounded with the trimmings of truffles. Season the forcemeat with a pinch of pounded aro- u^'v ^® minutes after remove it into a kitchen basm, and mix with it the madeii-a the