SAX SAV ( 840 ) quarters of a pound of woll-driod flour. Put all in a mould in a slack oven to bake. Savoy Pudding.—liub six oimeos of stale savoy ciiko to crumbs, and pour upon those a quarter of u pint of boiling milk. Let them soak for half an hour, then beat the mixture with a fork till smooth, and add four ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of finoly-shrod candied peel, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and two table-spoon- fuls of brandy. Beat the mixture for some minutes, put it into a cool place for an horn-, and beat it up again. Put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a brisk oven. Whisk the whites of the eggs till firm, sweeten them, and flavour them pleasantly. Put them on the pudding, iuid place this in the oven a few minutes longer. When the eggs are set the pudding is ready for serving. Time to bake the pudding, half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Savoy Soup. — Boil a moderate-sized savoy in the usutU way till tender. Put it into a colander, and press the water from it, then turn it into a clean stewpan, pour over it as much beef, veal, or chicken broth as will tho- roughly cover it, place the Kd on the stew- pan, and let its contents simmer gently for an hour. Dissolve four ounces of sweet butter in a separate saucepan, and stir as much flour into this as will make a smooth paste. Beat the mixture briskly over the fire until it is lightly coloured without being at all burnt, slice two onions into it, and fry them lightly. Moisten the paste with a little of the boiling soup, add it gTadually to the rest, and boil the whole a few minutes longer. Skim the soup carefully, and mix with it a quart of boiling milk. If liked, a few crackers may be soaked in the milk before it is added to the soup. Serve very hot. Time, two hours. Probable cost, 9d. per quart. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Savoy Sponge.—Beat the yolks of three eggs lightly, and with them four ounces of powdered sugar and a small pinch of salt. Stir in two ounces of corn-flour, and beat the mixture again till it is quite smooth. Add the whites of the eggs whisked to froth; pour the preparation into a buttered mould, the inside of which has been lightly covered with powdered sugar. Flavour the cake with any suitable fla- vouring, and bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, turn it out carefully. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 8d. Savoy, Varieties of.—The savoy is dis- tinguished from the other close or hearted cabbages by its wrinkled leaves, and from the Brussels sprouts by its cabbaging in large full heads. The latter is considered a sub-variety. The varieties of savoy are—the large green; the chou le pi ^ gros, tardif des vert us, or German savoy, a superior variety, very distinct from the common large green; the yellow; the dwarf; and the globe. Loudon gives the following estimate of the value of the different sorts: —" The green savoy is the least hardy, and must be used first. The London market is generally supplied with it through the month of November, and until the plants are injured by frost. The dwarf savoy is hiirdi(-r than the precedmg, bearing well the attack of the lir»t wmter frosts, hy which the deliutcy of its flavour IB materially improved; and from its small size it is bettor adapted to the tables of pnvato families. Wlien tlie whole class is cul- tivated, this must 1)0 considered the second sort in succession. The best plants grow close to the ground, not exceeding one foot in height. The yellow savoy, by its hardiness, enables us to contmue the use of savoys till mid-winter. It does not yield to any of the otheru in good- ness, and by many persons it is preferred, being considered as much sweeter than any other kind." Savoys, Dry. — Whisk the whites of fifteen eggs to a firm froth, and sprinkle a pound of powdered sugar into this with the left hand, at the same time beating it lightly with the right. Add eight ounces of dried flour, and flavour the preparation with grated lemon-rind or orange-flower water. Pour the inixture into a shallow paper case, and bake in a moderate oven. Wlien done enough let the biscuit cool, and with a sharp knife cut it into thin slices. Dry these in a screen or in a cool oven till they are lightly browned, then put them aside till wanted. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, 3s. Saxon Pudding. — According to high authority this is one of the best puddings of Germany. Boil a gUl of milk, put into a stew- pan half a pound of flour. Gradually dilute the flour with the milk, so as to obtain a fine smooth paste. Add four ounces of butter and salt to taste. Place the saucepan on a moderate fire, stir the preparation till it begins to thicken, then take it off the fire, but continue still working it. When the paste is smooth, place it again on the fire, working it still, and gradually introduce into it the yolks of ten eggs, four oimces of oranged sugar, four ounces of butter, and a little salt. When the prepara- tion is frothy, introduce seven or eight whipped whites of eggs. Pour the preparation into a dome or a cylinder mould which has been buttered and glazed ■with sugar and potato-flour. Set the mould in a stewpan with boiling water reaching to half its height. Bake in a slack oven for forty minutes. Saxon Salad (sometimes called Sardonic Salad).—Take two Dutch herrings, soak them in water, boil, cut them first into thin slices and then into narrow strips. Cut up cold meat in the same way, also some sour juicy apples, and a little pickled beetroot. Mix well, and season with pepper and a small onion minced very fine. Moisten the salad with oil, vinegar, and milk or cream in equal parts. Saxony Sauce (a German recipe).—Place a piece of butter in a casserole, together with a table-spoonful of flour, to tliicken tiU almost baked. Then add a sufficient quantity of water in which fish was boiled, a shallot minced, some pale vinegar, a little white wine, and a good tea-spoonful of mustard. Stir these ingredients until the preparation boils well. Before send- ing to table, add some very tliin slices of lemon and a piece of cold butter to make the sauce oily.