VEA ( 1049 ) for five minutes, then put in the veal, and let it simmer till the peas are done enough. Put the peas on a disli, place the coUops with the larding uppermost upon them, poxir the gravj^ over all, and serve. If preferred, instead of gi'een pi as being used, the veal may be dished upon a puree of mushrooms, dressed sorrel, or endive. Some cooks, instead of making the grenadins of uniform size, cut one large one to place in the centre, and form the rest of the meat into diamonds, to be arranged round it. 'lime, two hom"3 to simmer the gi-enadins. Veal, Haricot.—Take the best end of a small neck of veal. Shorten the bones, and either divide the meat into cutlets, or leave it whole. Put it into a ste^vpan, pour over it a pint of good brown gravj', and let it simmer gently imtil thi'ee parts dressed. Boil in stock in a separate saucepan a pint of freshly- gathered and shelled young peas, haK a pint of caiTots and turnips cut into shapes, a small cauliflower, half a dozen young onions, a sliced cucumber, a cabbage tettuco cut into quarters, a pound or two of young onions, or any suitable vegetables. When these are nearly tender, add a little salt and cayenne. Shortly before the haricot is to be served, put the vegetables with, the veal, and let all simmer gently together for ten minutes. Put the veal on a diih, arrange the vegetables round it, and garnish with forcemeat balls. Send fried bacon to table on a separate dish. If more •convenient, some of these vegetables may be omitted, and when boiling the vegetables it should be remembered that some kinds will need to boil longer than others, according to their nature and age. The appearance of the veal will be improved if it is brightly browned before being stewed, and a little acid will im- prove its flavour for many. Time to simmer the veal alone, about half an hour. Probable cost, veal. Is. per pound. Veal, Hashed.—Any joint of veal not over-dressed may be hashed, and will be found excellent. Cut the meat into neat slices free from skin and gristle. Cover these, and put them aside till wanted. Slice two onions, and fry them in butter, dredge a little flour upon them, pour over them half a pint of stock or water, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated ni;tmeg, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated Jemon-rind, and a little salt and white pepper. Let all sim- mer for a few minutes till the liquor is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain the gravy, put the veal into it, let it simmer till it is hot without allowing it to boil, then serve on a hot dish, and gamish with toasted sippets. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Veal Imitation of Mock Turtle.— Put throe or four pounds of knuckle of veal' into an earthenware pan with two calf's feet, two onions, each one stuck with two cloves, a })unch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, half a dozen allsijico, and half a tea-spoonful of peppercorns. Cover the ingredients with cold water, tic several folds of paper over the jar, put it in a woll-heatcd oven, and lot it remain until the meat in quite tender. Take it up, ' and let it get cold. Remove the cake of fai from the top of the jelly, and cut the meat into pieces convenient for serving, free from bone or skin. Put these into a stewpar. with the jellied stock, a large spoonful of ketchup, and whatever seasoning is requii-ed. Let the preparation become quite hot, then add a dessei-t-spoonful of lemon-juice, and serve with forcemeat balls and hard-boiled eggs. If more convenient, cow heels may be used instead of ! calf's feet. Time to bake the meat, three to j four hours. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for j eight or nine persons. Veal in Jelly (a breakfast or luncheon dighj.—Take two pounds of lean veal from the breast or fillet. Cut the veal into pieces an ' inch square and the ham into thin slices. Line a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the veal, and add a calf's foot, the veal bones broken up small, two onions, two carrots, a parsnip, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a blad e of mace, two inches of lemon-rind, and a little pepper and salt. Pom* a pint of veal stock or water into the bottom of the j^an, let the liquor boil, skim carefully, and let it simmer as gently as possible till the meat is tender. Take up the veal, and arrange it neatly in a mould. Strain the gravy through a jelly-bag, boil quickly for a few minutes, then pour it over the meat, and turn it out when cold. Veal in Jelly (another way).—Take the bones from a breast or fillet of veal, and cut it in slices an inch thick and the size and shape of the mould in which it is to be baked. Sprinkle each slice with a savoiuy powder made by mixing two tea-spoonfuls of salt with one tea- spoonful of white pepper, and one tea-spoonful of powdered mace. Pour a tea-cupful of veal stock or -water in the bottom of the mould, and fill it with alternate layers of veal and thin slices of ham: let veal form the under- most and uppermost layers. Press the meat down tightly with a plate or dish a trifle smaller than the top of the mould, so that the gravy may run into it. Place a weight on the dif^h, and put it in a moderate oven tiU the veal is tender. Take it out, and let the weight remain upon it till it is cold. Put the bones and trim- mings of the veal into a saucepan with a hand- ful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two blades of mace, two square inches of thin lemon-rind, half a salt-spoonful of pepperoonis, and two quarts of water. Let the liquor boil, skim carefully, then simmer gentlv for three hours. Strain it, let it get cold, and clear it from fat. It ought to foi-m a stifE jelly, but if not sufficiently firm it should either be'boiled a little longer or it should have a little isinglass or gelatine dissolved in it. Mix a pint of this jolly with the gravy that flowed into the saucer which was laid upon the meat, add a table- spoonful of ketchup, and pour the liquor over the veal. Let it get cold and stiff, then turn it out m a shape upon a dish, and garnish ^^•ith parsley. Cut it in slices when serving. The gravy should of course be made the day before It IS wanted. Time to bake the veal, three hours. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Italian.—Take half a pound of uncooked veal perfectly free from skin and fat.