( 1158 ) ZAN YOE it irmdo with four ounces of butter instead of SIX, and if ouo oyg only is usod. Tli«y nmy bo buttorod and sorved cold, but aro bust hot Ijiiio to bako thu toa-cakus, a (luartor to lialf an hour, rrobablo cost, Id. oach. SuUiciont lor ton cakes. A few currants may bo added if liked. Yorkshire Veal Cake.—Take one pound and a half of lean vual from the lillot, three- quarters of a pound of thinly-cut ham, and four eggs. Boil the eggs till they are hard aud let them get cold, thou cut the veal into neat pieces, lake about half a pint of clear highly-Hoasoned ■ veal gravy, made so strong that it will ielly firmly when cold. Put a layer of this at the bottom of an earthen potting-pan, and fill the dish with successive layers of the veal, the ham, the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and the jellied gravy. Season each layer lightly with a little pepper, minced parsley, and shallot, and salt, if required; this will depend upoh the saltness of the bacon. Cover the potting- pan with a coarse stifl: paste of flour and water, put it in the oven in a dripping-tin, thiee-parts . tilled with boihng water, and add more water in place of that which boils away till the veal cake is done enough. Let the cake get cold, turn it whole upon a dish, and garnish with parsley. The jellied gravy may be made by boiling the bones and trimmings of the veal in water, with a cow-heel and suitable seasonings, and clarifying the liquor with white of egg. It should form a stiff jelly when cold. Time to bake the cake, one hour and a quarter. Pro- bable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a breakfast or luncheon dish. Young Oxford Sausages.—Take one' pound of young pork, fat and lean, without skin or gristle; one pound of beef suet, chopped tine together; put in half a pound of grated bread, half the peel of a lemon shred, a nutmeg grated, six sage-leaves chopped fine, 'a tea- spoonful of pepper, and two of salt, some thjone, savoury, and marjoram, shred fine. Mix well together, and put the preparation close down in a pan till used. Eoll the sau- sages out the size of common sausages, and fry them in fresh butter of a fine brown, or broil them over a clear fire, and send them to table hot. Yule Cake {see Yorkshire Spice Cake). Yule Dumplings.—Cut two small loaves of bread made of milk into slices, and pour over them a sufficient quantity of cold milk to render them soft; having gently pressed the bread, then add to it the following:—Two ounces of the small and one ounce of the large raisinSj icked and washed, some blanched and finely- ruised or grated bitter almonds, grated lemon- peel, mace, and sugar, a piece of rubbed butter, and two or three eggs. AU these ingredients to be well mixed together with two or three spoonfuls of flour, and formed into a consistent mass of dough, which is to be divided by a spoon into dumplings of the proper size ; these are to be put overhead into boiling water, and when thoroughly done taken out with a skim- ming-spoon, and served up with cream sauce poured over thorn. These dumplings furnish a beautiful suppor-dish. Yule Pudding.—A quarter of a pound of butter; ton ounces of loaf sugar; the j nice of two large lemons, with the rinds grated; one ounce of isinglass—the quantity after dissolved should bo a krge tea-cupful; and two spoonfuls of fine flour. Put these ingredients into a stewpan, Htir over a slow fire, till the preparation nearly boils, then throw it into a ])asin and stir till almost cold ; then add eight eggs, four whites, and half a wine-glass of brandy. A puff paste is to be put entirely over a dish, and the pud- ding is to bo baked half an hour. z Zampino^ with French Beans.—" In Italy and Vienna," says M. Dubois, "they think a great deal of ' zampino' ('hand,' i.e., foot and leg, of young pork) from Modena, and they are quite right. For my own part, I do not know any product of this nature more cleverly contrived or more successfully achieved than this ' zampino.' The only thing to regret is that the ' zampino' is not sufficiently and better known to epicures. Choose a ' zamjjino' freshly salted, having soaked it for two hours, drain, and wrap it up in a fine cloth; tie, and place it in an oval stewpan, moistening plenti- fully with cold water; make the liquid boil, draw the pan on the side of the fire, keeping the stock simmering for two hours, after which take the pan quit(3 off the fire, leaving the 'zampino' in, and twenty minutes after un- pack, and dish it oil a garnish of French beans or sour-crout." Zandrina Pudding.—Pick some fresh ripe raspberries. Put them into a jar and cover closely; set the fi'uit in the oven in a tin of boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it till the juice flows freely. Boil it with half its weight of sugar to a syrup, and let it get cold. If fresh fruit can- not be procured, a jar of raspberry jam may be dissolved, mixed with a little thin syrup, and rubbed through a sieve. Beat six oimces of fresh butter to cream; work in six ounces of powdered white sugar, six oimces of dried flour, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Whisk the whites of the eggs to snow, and add them to the mixture, together with a wine- glassful of the raspberry syrup. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould which it will quite fill, put the cover on it, and put it in a saucepan, containing boiling water to the depth of throe inches or thereabouts, according to the depth of the mould. Keep the water boiling round the pudding until it is done enough. Take it up, let it stand a minute or two, and turn it out carefully upon a hot dish. Serve, with a little of the syrup whisked with an equal quantity of thick cream, poured round it. If liked, the'pudding may be baked instead of being steamed. Time to steam the pudding, an hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusiyo of the sauce, two shillings. Sufficient for six or seven persons.