SOD ( 888 ) SNO tho cinnamon, and stir in tho whites, which must also have boon beaton up ; turn it quickly all tho time, that it may not run ovor; when it has assumed a thickish appearance, put it into a dish garnished with ratafia cakes and pastry alternately. Snowdon Pudding.—Shred four ounces of beef suet very finely, and mix with it a pinch of salt, two table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar, ono ounce of sago, throe ounces of orange marmalade, half a pound of grated bread- crumbs, three well-beaten eggs, and a dessert- spoonful of brandy. Beat the ingredients to- gether till the mixture is quite smooth, liutter a mould thickly, dredge a Httle flour upon it, and stick into it even rows of raisins. Put tho pudding into it very gently, and in table- spoonfuls, not to disturb the raisins, lay a round of oiled or buttered paper on the surface, and tie tho pudding in a cloth. Boil or steam it till done. Let it stand a few minutes after it is taken up before turning it out. Send wine sauce to table with it. If liked, two table- spoonfuls of apricot jam may be substituted for the marmalade, and a table-spoonful of ground lice for the sago. Time to boil the pudding, about an hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Soda Biscuits.—No. 1. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and add a pinch of salt and six table-spoonfuls of pow- dered sugar. Whisk two eggs, and stir them into the flour; add a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a spoonful of hot milk, and beat the mixture till it is smooth and light. Roll the pastry out to the thickness of haK an inch, stamp it into fancy shapes, and bake im- mediately in a quick oven. No. 2. Dissolve six ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, a pinch of salt, and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in a pint of warm milk, and stir into the liquor as much flour as will form a stiff dough. Knead the pastry till it is smooth and light, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Stamp it in rounds and bake immediately. No. 3. Beat the yolk of an egg, mix it with a pound of flour, and add a pinch of salt. Dis- solve a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in a table-spoonful of warm milk; stir this into the flour, with additional milk, to make a stiff dough. Knead well, beat with a roUing-pin, and roU the dough out very thin. Stamp it into fancy biscuits, and bake these in a modei-ate oven. When the biscuits are crisp they will be suf- ficiently baked. Time to bake the biscuits, twelve to twentj' minutes. Soda Bread.—Mix thoroughly equal parts of tartaric acid and carbonate of soda, and put the mixture aside to be used as required. Dis- solve a tea-spoonful of tho powder and a pinch of salt in a breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir the liquor into a pound of flour. Knead the dough till it is smooth and light, put it into a tin, and bake tho loaf in a brisk oven. Some- times sour milk or buttermilk is used instead of sweet milk, and then a smaller proportion of tartaric acid is required. Time to bake, about an hour. Probable cost, 3d. for a loaf this size. Soda Bread (another way).—See Bread, Soda. Soda Cake.—No. l. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour; then add a pinch of salt, a quarter of u pound of stoned raisins, or half a pound of picked and dried currants, half a pound of powdered sugar, and a quarter of a giated nutmeg. Mix the diy ingredients thoroughly. Dissoh'o a tea-spooiiful of carboiLito of soda in a tea- cupful of warm milk. Whisk tlu'ee fresh eggs, and mix them with the milk. lieat all well together for a few minutes. Butter the tins, and Une them witli oiled pai)er. Pour in tlie mixture, and bake the (^kes in a well-heat(-d, steady oven. If a richer cjike is required, the quantity of butter should be increased. As a variety, a quarter of a j^ound of candied peel or one ounce of pounded sweet almonfls may be substituted for the currants, but then a little more soda will be needed. It should be remem- bered that the cake should be put into the oven immediately after the soda is added, and that it should be thoroughly baked. When done enough, turn it out carefully, and let it rest in a slanting position on the edge of a basin till cool. If liked, the batter can be sjiread h:ilf an inch deep in a shallow pan, then cut into squares when done enough. If this plan is adopted, the cake will be baked in twenty minutes. Time to bake, one large cake, one hour and three-quarters; two small cakes, one hour each. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Soda Cake (another way).—Rub half a pound of sweet butter into a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, haK a pound of picked and dried currants, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, three ounces of finely-shi'ed candied peel (lemon, orange, or citron), and two well-beaten eggs. Dissolve a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in the third of a pint of lukewarm milk. Beat the ingredients well together, and bake the cake as quickly as possible after the soda is put in. Turn the dough into a buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about an hour and three-quarters. Probable cost, 9d. per pound. Soda Cakes, Economical. — No. l. Rub six ounces of good beef dripping into a pound of flour; add a pinch of salt, a tea-spoon- ful of mixed spice, a table-spoonful of caraway, seeds, and six ounces of moist sugar. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Add a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in habf a pint of lukewarm milk. Bake in a moderate oven. Probable cost, 4d. per pound. No. 2. Rub eight ounces of good beef dripping into two pounds of flour; add a salt-spoonful of salt, six table-sjioonfuls of sugar, six ounces of picked and diicd cun-ants, a httle nutmeg or spice, three eggs, and a ]iint of lukewarm milk, in which a tca-s]ioonful of carbonate of soda has been dissolved. ISIix thoroughly, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, one hour or more, according to the size of the cakes. Probable cost, 6d. per pound. Soda Cakes (another way).—Take six ounces of butler, and mix with it one pound of flour; work it into small crumbs. ISlix wath this half a pound of sugar, half a pint of boiling