PIG PIG ( 565 ) pio-cons. Cut off the heads and necks, put the livers hack into the inside, truss securely, as if for hoiling, and tie the pigeons with twine instead of skewering them. Cut half a pound of streaky hacon into small pieces, and put these into a stewpan with the pigeons and one ounce of hutter. Place them on a moderate fire, and move them ahout until they are equally and lightly browned all over. Take the birds up, drain them, make a roux by mixing an ounce of flour smoothly with the fat in the saucepan, moisten with a pint of stock, and .stir the gravy over the fire until it boils. Strain it, and put it into a clean stewpan with the pigeons, the bacon, a bunch of parsley, a a small sprig of thyme, and a pint of freshly- gathered shelled green peas, and a little pepper and salt if required. Simmer gently till the peas are done, take out the herbs, and place the pigeons on a hot dish with the gravy poured over them and the peas and bacon round them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons Stewed with Green Peas (another way).—Prepare the pigeons, and brown them in butter, as in the last recipe. Take them up, drain them, and cut them into halves length- wise. Put them side by side in a stewpan with two ounces of butter rolled in flour. When this is dissolved, put in a pint of freshly-gathered young green peas, and a table-spoonful of nicely- seasoned veal stock. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the pigeons stew very gently until they and the peas are done enough, moving the pan about occasionally to prevent its contents burn- ing. Serve the birds on a hot dish with the sauce and vegetables arranged around them. Time, twenty minutes to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons Stewed with Mushrooms. —Pluck, draw, and singe two plump young house pigeDns. Cut ofl: their heads and necks, and truss them with the legs inwards, as if for boiling. Put them into a stewpan with half a poimd of streaky bacon cut into small pieces and an ounce of fresh butter, and turn them about until they are equally and lightly browned, then take them up, drain them, and mix one ounce of fine flour smoothly with the butter in which they were fried. Moisten the roux with a pint of gravy or water, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and stir the gravy over the fire until it boils, then strain it, and put it into a clean saucepan with the pigeons, the fried bacon, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, and a dozen button onions. Simmer gently for half an hour, take out the horbe, add a dozen small mushrooms, and stew ten minutes longer. .Serve the birds on a hot dish, with the gravy poured over them, and the bacon, onions, and mushrooms put with them. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for two or three persons. Pigeons, Stuffed and Roasted.— Pluck, draw, and singe two plump young pigeons, and fill them with a forcemeat made as follows:—Mince the livers finely, and mix with them the same quantity of finely-sliced suet and grated bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace, a heaped table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and a pinch, of powdered thyme, and moisten the whole with beaten yolk of egg. Truss the bu-ds firmly, tio thin slices of bacon over the breasts, and put them down to a clear fire. To make the gravy, mix the droppings from the birds with half a cupful of boiling stock or water. Add a table- spoonful of claret, a little of the forcemeat, season with salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg,, and thicken the whole with the yolk of egg well beaten. Serve the birds on a hot dish, with the sauce poured round them, and a little bread- sauce in a tureen. Time to roast the pigeons, from twenty to thirty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Stuffed and Boasted (Ger- man method).—Pluck and di-aw two young freshly-killed pigeons. Open, scald, and clean the gizzard, and mince it with the liver and heart very finely. Mi.x with the mince the crumb of a roll which has been soaked in cold milk and pressed dry, and add a little salt and cayenne, a shallot chopped small, and a table- spoonful of shred parsley. If the flavour of the onion and the parsley is objected to, a littlo' bacon and a pinch of powdered mace may he substituted for them. Bind the forcemeat to- gether with yolk of egg, and fill the crop with, it between the flesh and the neck. The skin must be cut and raised carefully with the fingers, and then sewn or tied securely with thread. Dip the pigeons into butter, dredge well with flour, and season with pepper and salt. Cover them entirely with thin slices of fat bacon, put them into a stewpan, and turn them frequently until they are brightly browned all over. Pour half a cupful of boiling water upon them, cover the saucepan closely, and let them steam until done enough. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce round them. Time, about an hour to steam the birds. Probable cost, 23. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Stuffed and Stewed.—Pluck and draw two plump, freshly-killed young pigeons, and truss them as for boiling. Mince the livers finely, and mix with them twice their bulk of highly-seasoned bread-crumbs, half a salt-spoonful of chopped lemon-rind, half a salt- spoonful of powdered thjme, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and the yolk of a hard- boiled egg crushed to powder. Fill the birds^ with this forcemeat, and put in each half an ounce of fresh butter. Lay them breast down- wards into a small stewpan, and barely cover- them with veal stock or, failing this, water, l^b.. them stew gently until they are done enough, then take them up, strain the gravy, thicken with two table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of cream, and the yolks of two eggs, and season with a little pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is quite hot without boiling, put in the pigeons for a minute to heat, and "serve- immediately. A few stewed mushrooms is a great improvement to this dish. Time, about rd hour to stew the pigeons. Probable cost, 2s., with pigeons at 9d. each. Sufficieni for two op three persons. Pigeons Stuffed with Chestnuts, and Roasted.—Tako a dozen sounil chest-