1162 cassell's cookery. the necessary quantity of liquid. The jar should then be covered closely or pasted down, sliould be put in a shallow tin tilled with boiling water, and put in the oven. The water should be kept boiling round it. The quantity of water should be kept up (a little being added every now and then) until the preparation is sufficiently baked. Probable cost, earthen jars from 9d., according to size. Filter.—A filter should be found in every house. No one who has given the least thought to the subject can doubt that health depends to a great extent upon the purity of the water which is drunk, and the water supplied to houses is often not fit for drinking pui-poses until it has been filtered. A filter needs only to be filled regularly and cleaned out every week, and when this is done there is always at hand a supply of that necessary of life—^pure drinking water. Filters may be procured from 6s. upwards. Fish Kettle.—A fish kettle is fitted with a drainer, upon which the fish is to be placed, and which is pulled up when the fish is suflSciently boiled. The drainer should be placed across the kettle for a minute, and when the water has drained from it, it should be placed carefully on the dish. There are three or four shapes in fish kettles, constructed to suit the shape of different fish, such as a salmon kettle, a turbot kettle, and a carp kettle. All are fitted with drainers. Price of fish kettle, from 7s. 6d. Fish Slice.—A fish slice is made of perforated metal—tin or copper—and is used to lift the fish from the drainer to the dish upon which it is to be served. A utensil of the same kind is used to lift poached eggs out of. the water, and is also useful to preserve unbroken any article which needs to be carefully passed from the pan to the dish. Price, from 6d. Frying Pan, Saut^: Pan, Omelet Pan, and Fish Fryer.—When a frying pan is spoken of it is generally understood to mean a shallow pan, made of iron or copper, in which any preparation that requires but Kttle cooking can be tossed quickly over the fire. A pan with straight sides is named a saut6 pan, and a smaller pan of the same kind, with sloping sides, and kept exclusively for omelets and dif- ferent preparations of batter, is called an omelet pan. It has been already explained that to fiy anything is to boil it in fat : to saute it is to cook it over the fire, one side at a time, in a very small quantity of fat. When a pancake, an omelet, or a chop are cooked in a small quantity of fat they are said to be " dry fried." These distinctions are, however so Kttle understood in English kitchens, that to adopt the correct terms would in nine cases out of ten be to cause the recipes to be misimder- stood, therefore the usual word has been taken. Frying pans, or saute pans, and omelet pans are made both of iron and copper. The former are most generally used. They should be kept scrupulously clean, and should never on any account be put away dirty. When not in use they should be hung in a dry, airy situation, where the dust cannot settle upon them. Before being used a little fat should be heated in the pan, and when this is removed the pan should be wiped with a dry cloth. This will ensure its being perfectly free from damp. The same pan that is used for frying fish should not be taken for other things. Deep frying pans are sold on purpose for fish ; they are called fish fryers. They are in shape not unlike a pre- serving pan, and are fitted with a closely-made wire drawer, with handles at each end. The fish placed in this can be plunged at once into the boiling fat, and when done enough can be taken out of it and drained without much fear of being broken. The possession of one of these pans makes it a comparatively easy thing to fry fish. When they are not at hand, however, and they are not by any means in general use, the ordinary frying pan must be used instead. The fat used must be as deep as circumstances will permit, and if necessary the fish must be fried first upon one side and then turned over upon the other. Steaks and chops, though constantly fried, are much better broiled. When a prejudice exists in favour of dry fiying, however, it should be remembered that the fat used should be allowed to become hot before the meat is placed in it. This will keep it from being greasy. Probable cost, iron frying pans and omelet pans from Is. each ; copper ones from 6s. 6d. according to size. Fish fryers from 12s. 6d,