( 648 ) FBA FBA with a little cayenne, and add a taLle-gpoon- ful of muahrooni kotchup, a dessort-Hpoonful of lemon-juico, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce. Put in the picked prawns, let them boil for live or six niinutos, and servo very hot. Time, an hour and a half. I'robablo cost, variable. Sufficient for si-x. or seven persons. Prawn Soup (another way).—Prepare two (luarts of stock according to the directions f^iven in the last recipe. Pick the tails from a hundi-ed freshly-boiled prawns, and put the shells and bodies into a stowpan witli a quarter of a pint of vinegar, a qxxarter of a pint of stock, and a blade of mace. Let them simmer for twenty minutes. Press the prawns through a sieve, and with them the crumb of a French roll which has been softened with a little of the stock. Mix the liquid with the soup, and add a little lemon-juice and Harvey's sauce, with a tea-spoonful of anchovy, and a pinch of cayemie; boil for five minutes; add the shelled prawns, and, when they are quite hot, serve the soup in a tureen. Time, altogether about an hour and a half. Probable cost, un- certain. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Prawns and Shrimps, Choosing of. —"When fresh, prawns have a sweet flavour and a bright colour, and are firm and stiff. Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and are to be judged by the same rules. Prawns, Boiled.—Put two table-spoon- fuls of salt into half a gallon of water, and biing the liquid to the boil. Throw in the prawns, and let them remain for about eight minutes. They are done enough when they change colour. Drain them on a sieve, and let them cool. They should be served while fresh. Stale prawns which are not too stale will be improved if they are thrown for one minute into fast-boiling water, before they are served. Prawns are best when they have no spawn under their tails. Prawns, Buttered. — Pick a pint of freshly-boiled prawns. Bruise the shells, and put them into a stewpan with a breakfast- cupful of stock, and a little cayenne and grated nutmeg. Let them simmer for twenty minutes; strain the liquid, and thicken it with flour and butter to the consistency of thick cream. Put in the picked prawns, and heat them thoroughly. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Time, three minutes to heat the prawns. Sufficient for three or four persons. Prawns, Cold, to Dish.—Place a cup upside down in the centre uf a small dish, and cover it neatly with a white napkin. Put the prawns round it, and garnish with plenty of parsley. Or cut a slice from a lemon or orange, so that it may stand firmly. Place it on a napkin, and aiTange the praAvns prettily upon it, putting a little fresh parsley between the rounds. The prawns may be kept in posi- tion by the horns being stuck lightly into the lemon. Garnish with parsley. Prawns in Jelly (a pretty supper dish). —Tfike a qu.art of stiff calf's-foot stock free from fat and sediment, and put it into a stew- pan with half a dozen shallots, each one with a clove stuck in it, two bay-leaves, half a hlade of mace, and a sprig of thyme. Let these simmer gently until the stock is pleasantly fluvoui-od, then strain it into a bowl, and let it cool. Whisk the whites of two eggs with a littli) cold water. Stir this biiskly into the stock, put it back into the saucepan, add the crushed shells of the eggs, and let the stock boil, but on no account stir it after it begins to boil up. Keep it boiling for a quarter of an hour, then lift it from the fire, and let it stand to settle for another quarter of an hour. Strain it througu a jelly-bag until it is clear. Pour a little of the jelly into a damp mould. When it is firm, lay some prawns upon it with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Repeat until the mould is full, and be careful that each layer of jelly is set before another is put in. Put the jeUy in a cool place, and turn it out before serving. If liked, the jelly may be made with isinglass or gelatine dissolved in water instead of calf's-foot stock. Time, an hour to make the jelly. Sufficient for a three-pint mould. Prawns, Malay Curry of.—Pick some prawns from their shells; let them be a pint when prepared. Rasp the half of a large cocoa- nut into two spoonfuls of hot water, and then smooth it through a sieve. Stew the prawns very gently with a shred onion and enough good mutton or veal broth to cover. See that the broth is well seasoned, and put in a stick of cinnamon. When the prawns are getting tender, mix two dessert-spoonfuls of curry- powder in a little cold broth, add it to the rest in the stewpan, and simmer for a few minutes. Take out the prawns, and strain the gravy over them into a clean pan; make hot, and add the rasped cocoa-nut, and flour enough to thicken, which should be mixed with some of the nut- milk. Let all simmer gently for a few minutes, and serve with juice of a lemon and boiled rice in a separate dish. Time, one hour. Sufficient for a dish. Prawns, Potted. — Pick fresh prawns after they have been boiled. Cut them lightl)'', and pound them in a marble mortar with a small quantity of fresh butter, a seasoning of cayenne and powdered mace or grated nutmeg, and a little salt, if neces- sary, but it is probable that they will not require it. Put them into jars, cover with clarified butter lukewarm, and tie a bladder securely over them. Time to boil, eight minutes. Prawns, Shelling of.—Hold the head of the prawn firmly in the right hand and the tail in the left. Straighten the body of the fish, and bring the thumbs near one another. Break the shell of the tail with a httle twist of the right hand, then draw the shell off. It will come off almost whole, a very small piece only being left. Unless the prawns are fresh, they will not shell easily. Prawns, Shrimps, or Crayfish, Potted.—Boil them in water with plenty of salt in it. When you have picked them, powder them with a little beaten mace, or grated nut- meg, or allspice, and pepper and salt; add a