WHI WHI ( ni6 ) White Sharp Sauce.—Take a little ■white stock, and flavour it pleasantly with two or thi-oo mushrooms, a Lunch of parsley, and some young onions. Strain it, thicken with white thickening, and boil till smooth. Stir into it a little tarragon vinegar to flavour it pleasantly, and add stilt and cayenne, together with a small proportion of cream, and just before serving stir into it until dissolved a small piece of fresh butter. ^Vhen a very rich sauce is required, the well-beaten yolks of one or two eggs may be added. Beat the eggs in a bowl. Let the sauce cool a little, then stir a table-spoonful of it into the eggs, and add the rest gradually. Stir the sauce over the fire for a minute or two, but on no account allow it to boil; then serve. White Soup.—The meats to be used in making stock for white soup are veal, fowls, rabbits, and calf's feet, or cow heel. White Boups may be thickened with white roux, rice, ground rice, arrowroot, macaroni, tapioca, vermicelli, pearl beirley, &c., and boiling cream or milk should be added. Half milk and half stock is a good proportion for white soups, and the peculiar seasoning and flavouring must be particularly attended to. It is a good plan to keep a separate stock-pot for the pre- paration of white soups. White Soup (another way).—Take three pints of good white stock entirely free from fat and sediment, put it into a stewpan, and let it heat gently. Blanch two oimces of sweet almonds, and pound them to a paste in a marble mortar with a little water to keep them from oiling. Mince and pound with them a slice of dressed veal or fowl, and add a table-spoonful of stale bread-crumbs and a small blade of mace finely powdered. "When the mixture is smooth, stir it very gradually into a pint of cream, and add a pint of the stock; put into it an inch of thin lemon-rind, and simmer over the fire .for a few minutes. Stir into it as much of the stock as will make it of the thickness of cream, and simmer the soup gently for half an hour. Remove the lemon-rind, and serve the soup with toasted sippets. If liked, arrowroot, ground rice, or common flour may be used instead of the aMionds; and, when cream cannot be had, new milk mixed with the yolks of eggs may be used instead. The egg should be beaten in the soup tureen; it should be mixed with a table- spoonful of the milk, the rest of the milk (boiling) should be added gradually, and the soup poured in. By increasing the quantities and preserving the proportions, a larger quan- tity of soup may be made. Time to simmer the thickening in the soup, half an hour. Suf- ficient for eight or nine persons. White Soup (another way). — Take two quarts of good, nicely-flavoiired white stock, entirely free from fat {see Stock, White, for Soups and Sauces); put it into a stewpan, and let it boil up. Mi-x foxir table-spoonfuls of corn- flour to a smooth thin paste with a little cold milk. Stir this into the boiling stock, let it boil, then draw it back, and let it simmer gently, stirring all the time, for seven minntcs. Season the soup with pepper and salt, stir into it a pnit of boiling cream or milk, and serve very hot. Time, with the stock already made about an hour. Probable cost, if made with cream, and with stock costing Is. pur quart, 48. Suflicient for ten or twelve persons. WTlite Soup (another way).—Take a knuckle of veal, two calf's feet, two anchovies, a slice of ham, two heads of celery, three onions a few sweet herbs, a few peppercorns, and one ounce of sweet almonds blanched and boat fine. Stew all over a slow fire with the rtx^umU, quantity of water, taking off the scuni as it rises. Strain the liquor off, and wlien put upon the fire next day to boil add to it two ounces of vermicelli. _ Just before it is sent to table, put in half a pint of cream, and give it a gentle boil. White Soup (another way).—Into sir quarts of water put a knuckle of veal, one large fowl cut into quarters, a pound of lean ham, haK a pound of rice, two ancho-vaes, a few peppercorns, two or three onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, and three or four heads of celery. Stew all together till the soup becomes suffi- ciently strong, then strain it through a hair sieve into an earthen pot; after standing all night, take off the fat, and pour the soup clear oflt into a stewpan, and put into it half a poimd of almonds beat very smooth, boil a short time, and run the soup through a lawn sieve; then put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. Serve hot. White Soup (a la Eeine).—Eoasta fowl, pick the flesh from the bones, free it from skin and sinew, mince a poimd of it to a smooth paste, moistening with a quarter of a pint of stock and a slice of fresh butter. Have ready three-quarters of a pound of Carolina rice which has been boiled gently till tender in three pints of white stock. Put it into the mortar, and pound it with the other ingredients. Put the pulp into a stewpan, moisten with two pints of white stock, and rub it through a fine sieve. Heat it again in the stewpan, and when it is quite hot season with pepper and salt, stir into it half a pint of boiling cream, and serve immediateh^ The stock for this soup may be made by stewing the bones and trimmings of the fowl with a slice of lean veal, a large cprrot, a few sticks of celery, and an onion. If Uked, a dessert-sjloonful of gelatine may be sub- stituted for the veal. Time, altogether, three to four hours. Probable cost, 6s. lOd. for this quantity, supposing the fowl to cost 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight jiersons. White Soup, Economical.—Take a quart of nicely-flavoured stock made from the bones of veal. The liquor in which veal, mutton, or chickens have been boiled will answer excellently for the purpose. Before being used it must be simmered for an hour with the flavouring ingredients mentioned below. Let the stock boil; then stir into it two table-spoonfuls of corn-flour which has been mixed to a smooth thin paste with a httlc cold mUk. Draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently, stirring all the time, for seven minutes. Season with pepper and salt. Put the yolk of an egg into the soup tureen, beat it