( 895 ) SOIi that is, when it ceases hissing and is stiU—im- mediately put the fish into it. men it is brovv-n on one side, turn it upon the other by means of a strong fork stuck firmly into tbe head of the fish. When done enough, which point is generally reached when a thick smoke rises from it, place it on a hot cloth, and put it in the front of the tire to drain the fat from it. The cook should on no account omit to do this, as greasy fish is exceedingly unplea- sant. Place a warm napkin over a fish-drainer on a dish, lay the sole upon it, and garnish with fried parsley. Send melted butter or shrimp sauce to table in a tureen. The inex- perienced cook will find it to her advantage to use very fine bread-raspings, or crusts of bread dried and hro%vned in the oven and finely pounded, instead of bread-crumbs. By using these she will ensure the good appearance of the fish. It should he remembered that fat which has been used for frying fish can be used, for that purpose onltj, again and again, if immediately after being used it is cooled a little, then poured through a metal strainer to free it from crumbs, and make it pure and clean, and put aside in a cool place for future use. Great care must be taken to prevent it burning, and fresh fat may be added when necessary. Sometimes, when a sole is held up to the light, though it is fresh, a dark streak may be seen by the side of the roe. This arises from the fish having been so closely packed with the others after it was caught, that it was literally smothered to death. In cases like this the roe should be removed before the fish is fried. When eggs are scarce or expensive, a thin batter of flour and water may be used instead of egg and bread-crumbs. Time to fry a moderate-sized sole with plenty of fat, ten minutes. Probable cost, soles. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Sufficient, one pair of soles for three or four persons. Sole, Fried in Oil (to be eaten cold).— Clean, scale, skin, empty, trim, and dry a moderate-sized sole, and brush it over with beaten egg. Put six table-spoonfuls of best lucca oil in a saute-pan, let it get quite hot, then put in the fish. Let it remain for five minutes, turn it over, and then leave it in five minutes longer. Drain it well, put it aside, and serve cold. Time to fry the sole, ten minutes. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sole, Grenade of.—When there are any remains of dressed fish they may be used with a large fresh sole as foUows :—Lift the dressed fish from the bone, and tear it into flakes. Mix with it a third of its bulk in finely-grated bread-crumbs, and add half an anchovy freed from bone and finely pounded, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a little pepper and salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, work in with the finger two ounces of fresh butter, and add one raw egg to bind the forcemeat together. Clean, scale, and skin the sole, split it open, and carefully remove the bone. In its place spread the force- meat, put the two halves of the sole together again, and fasten them in their position with four small skewers. Put the fish into a wcll- buttorcd baking-dish, pour a cupful of stock round it, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When done enough, take it up, strain the gravy, and flavour it with a spoonful of the liquor in which gherkins have been pickled, and a spoonful of caper vinegar. Make it hot, pour it round the fish, and serve. Some- times the inside of the sole thus prepared is larded in alternate rows with gherkins and truffles cut into thin strips. Time to bake the sole, about half an hour. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for three or fom- persons. Sole in Cream (a delicate and delicious (iish).—Take a pair of moderate-sized soles, scale and skin tnem, and clean them with scrupulous care. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them simmer gently for two minutes. Take them up, drain them, and put them into a clean saucepan. Pour over them as much sweet cream as wiU barely cover them, add a little salt and cayenne, a pinch of pounded mace, and an inch or two of lemon- rind, and let them simmer gently until done enough. Take them up with a slice, and place them upon a hot dish. Thicken the cream with a little arrowroot, stir a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice into it, and pour it over the fish. It may seem unnecessary that the soles should be boiled for a minute or two in water before they are -put into the cream, but it will be found that if this is not done the sauce wiU have a slightly unpleasant fishy flavour. Time to simmer the fish, eight to ten minutes. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Probable cost, soles, Is. 6d. to 2s. per pair. Sole, Normande.—Choose a thick sole, scale and clean it, and draw off the dark skin by cutting it through at the tail end and drawing it over the head. Butter thickly a dish that will stand the fire, and strew over it some very thin slices of onions. A silver dish is the most suitable for the purpose, as the fish should be served in the dish in which it was baked. Season the sole with salt and pepper, and lay it on the onion; sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the surface, and moisten the fish well with French white wine. Put it in a gentle oven, and bake it until done enough. Take a dozen fine bright-yellow mussels, cleanse and scrape them, boil them in the usual way, beard and drain them, and lay them on the sole. Make a quarter of a pint of rich white sauce, mix with this the gravy from the sole and a little of that in which the mussels were cooked. Reduce the sauce till it coats the spoon; pour a little of it upon the sole over the mussels, and put the dish again in the oven for a few minutes to make it quite hot, but be careful not to colour the sauce at all. Serve very hot, and send the sauce which remains to table in a tureen. For a superlative dish, oysters and mushrooms may be laid upon the sole, as well as mussels, and the liquor from the oysters may be added to the sauce. Also fried smelts, cray- fish, and fried croutons of bread may be used to garnish the dish. When preparing the fish for baking, it should be remembered that cider and perry replace French wine so well that it is almost needless to employ the latter, ex- cepting when money is very plentiful. Grand cooks would use champagne, sauteme or other