(801) SAIi SAL the onions begin to turn yellow, then dredge over thorn a table-spoonful of flour, pour m a quarter of a pint of stock and add a table- spoonful of chilli vinegar, a spoonful of mixed mustard, a little salt and cayenne, and half a glassful of sherry. Simmer the sauce till it is smooth and thick, stir in two spoonfuls of bruised capers, boil a minute or two longer, and serve. Time to broil the salmon, fifteen to twenty minutes, according to thickness. Salmon (a la Tartare).—Take two slices of salmon out of the middle of a moderate- sized fish, each slice of the thickness of three- quarters of an inch. "Wash the salmon lightly in salted water, and dry it thoroughly. Brush it all over with the best salad oil, season with salt and pepper, and broil it on a gridiron over a gentle fire ; taking care to turn and baste it frequently. When it is done enough, which it wiU be when the flesh leaves the bone on a slight pressure, place it on a cold dish, and pour round it a sauce prepared as follows:— Break the yolk of an egg, well freed from white, into a bowl; remove the speck, add a pinch of salt, and very gradually—first by drops and afterwards by tea-spoonfuls—about four table- spoonfuls of good salad oil. Beat the sauce well between every addition. Afterwards stir in, very gradually, three tea-spoonfuls of good vinegar, a tea-spoonful of chilli, vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and add a table-spoonful of dry mustard, a tea-spoonful of chopped spring onions, and a tea-spoonful of chopped chervil. If liked, three or four gherkins, finely minced, or a tea-spoonful of anchovy, may be added to the sauce, which ought to be of the consistence of thick cream. Grarnish the salmon with capers, gherkins, or olives. If more con- venient, the salmon can be fried and served in the same way; it is, however, best when broiled. To prepare it for frying, mix a table-spoonful of finely-grated bread-crumbs with the tenth part of a nutmeg gi-ated, a small pinch of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of shred parsley. Brush the fish with clarified butter, and sprinkle the seasoned crumbs over it. Fry in plenty of hot fat till done enough. Drain it well, and serve with the same sauce as if it were grilled. This sauce should be made half an hour before the cooking of the fish is commenced, and should be kept in a cool place, or upon ice, till wanted. If preferred, tomato sauce may be used instead of tartar sauce. Time to broil the fish, twenty minutes; to fry it, ten minutes. Probable cost, salmon, Is. per pound when in full season. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Salmon, Anchovy Sauce for {see Anchovy Sauce for Salmon). Salmon and Potato Pie.—Take the remains of cold boiled salmon. Free it from skin and bone, divide it into small pieces, and - season one pound of it with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a grain of cayenne. Butter a shallow pie-dish, and spread over the bottom a layer of potatoes which have been mashed lightly with a little butter, milk, and the yolk of an egg. Put the pieces of fish on the potato, moisten with any fish sauce that mjiy be left, and cover with another liijci- jiof-ito. vTi.rh the top. of the pie with a fork, and put it in a brisk oven till the surface is brightly browned and the pie is quite hot. Servo it in the dish in which it was baked. Time to bake, about half an hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. SuflBcient for four or five persons. Salmon, Baked.—Cut the fish into slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Wash it lightly in salted water, and dry it in a cloth. Take three-quarters of a pint of good melted butter, mix vnth it a pinch of cayenne, a table-spoonful of ketchup, a glassful of port, and one boned anchovy. Stir the sauce over the fire till the anchovy is dissolved, and strain it over the fish. Cover the dish, and put it into a moderately- heated oven. When done enough, serve in a hot dish, with the sauce poured round the salmon. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, salmon, from Is. per pound. Salmon, Baked (another way).—Taken moderate-sized salmon, scale and clean it, and wipe it dry. Rub it well inside and out with a mixture of pepper and salt, and fill it with a little good veal forcemeat. Sew the body up securely with soft cotton to keep in the force- meat. Lay a stand, such as is used to bake meat upon, in a dripping tin large enough to hold the fish; put the salmon upon it, dredge with flour, and put little pieces of butter here and there upon it. Pour a little water into the tin, and bake the fish in a well-heated oven. When the flesh will leave the bone easily, if pressed with the finger, it is done enough. Send boiled potatoes to table with the fish, and serve melted butter, flavoured with lemon-juice, in a tureen. Time to bake a moderate-sized fish, one hour. Probable cost, Is. or more per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Salmon, Baked, with Caper or Tomato Sauce.—Take two slices from the middle of a moderate-sized salmon. Wash them lightly in salted water, and dry them perfectly in a clean cloth. Sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over them, and, if liked, add a shallot or two or three spring onions finely minced. Place the slices of salmon side by side in a baking-dish, lay three ounces of butter in small pieces here and there upon them, and put the dish into a moderately-heated oven. Baste the fish frequently, and when it is done enough drain it, lay it upon a dish, pour a small portion of caper sauce or tomato sauce over it, and send more to table in a tureen. Tomato sauce is par- ticularly to be recommended for salmon dressed in this way. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, salmon, from Is. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon, Boiled.—The middle cut of the salmon is the best. A whole salmon is seldom sent to table unless the party be large. Scrape the scales carefully, cut o£E the fins and gills, and cleanse the fish thoroughly from blood. Put as much cold water into the fish-kettle as will entirely cover the fish, and with it six ounces of salt to each gallon of water. Bring it quickly to the boil, and skim carefully; then put in the fish, and let it simmer gently; boil moderately f.ist, IF it is a ^^nnll fish and thick, until done enough. Take it up as soon as it ia