( 1107 ) WEL WES way, and used. Time to bake the beef, six to eight hours, or a quarter of an hour to the pound. Probable cost, beef, lOd. or lid. per pound. Welsh Capillaire.—Take a pound and a half of clarified honey, half a pound of pre- served ginger, three quarts of strong raisin wine, two quarts of proof spirit of wine, one ounce each of candied lemon and citron sliced, two ounces of red-cun-ant jelly, four ounces of sugar-candy beaten fine, one ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little water, two oimces of sweet almonds beaten to a paste, half an ounce of bitter almonds also beaten to a paste, one ounce of thin rind of Seville oranges, and one ounce of lemon-juice strained. Clarify the honey to the highest extent; beat the almonds with a spoonful of the wine; and infuse all in a jar for two months. Then strain and filter it bright; colour with light yellow, and bottle it. This is a pleasant but not strong cordial, and should be kept in a cool room imtil two years old to be excellent. Welsh Gallimawfrey. — Slice some cheese and put it in a mortar. Pound it well, flavour rather highly with mustard, and moisten with butter, a Little vinegar, and wine. AVhen quite smooth it will be ready for serving. Welsh Hams.—A Welsh ham is simply the name given to a fat leg of mutton which has been cured and smoked like an ordinary ham. As a Welsh ham has little fat of its own, it is customary to put a piece of fat bacon into the pan with it whea boiling, and to serve the bacon with the ham. Welsh Leek Porridge.—This is made just like cock-a-leekie soup, and thickened with toasted bread. It used to be the custom to stew French plums with the porridge, but this now is scarcely ever done. Welsh Nectar (a pleasant summer beve- rage).—Cut the peel of three lemons very thin, and put the rind into a jar with the strained juice, two pounds of loaf sugar, and a pound of raisins stoned and chopped small. Pour upon these ingredients two gallons of water which has been boiled and allowed to cool. Stir the liquor daily for five days, strain through a jelly-bag, bottle, and tie do-wn the cork. It will be fit for use in ten days or a fortnight. Time, five days to make the nectar. Probable cost. Is. per gallon. Sufficient to make tAvo gallons. Welsh Pudding, Modern (sometimes called Quaker's Pudding).—Take haK a pound of fresh beef suet free from skin and fibre. Chop it small, and mix Avith it half a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, haK a pound of sugar, the grated rind of a large fresh lemon, and the juice of two. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and bind the mixture together with two eggs well beaten. Put it into a buttered mould, place it in boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly until done enough. Turn it out carefully, and serve. Time to boil the pudding, four hours. Probable cost, Is. or Is. 2d. Suf- ficient for half a dozen persons. Welsh Pudding, Very Rich.—Rub a large lump of sugar upon the rmd of a fresh lemon till all the yellow part is taken oflE. Crush it to powder, and add additional sugar to make up the quantity to three ounces. Melt four ounces of fresh butter very gently. Mix with it the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, and add the sugar. Line a shallow dish with good pastry, put in the mixture, and bake till done enough. Time to bake the pudding, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. S\xfficient for four or five persons. Welsh Rarebit.—Cut half a pound of a mellow Gloucester cheese into thin slices. Put an ounce and a half of butter upon a plate, and knead it before the fire with a tea-spoonful of immixed mustard and a pinch of cayenne till it looks like thick cream. Cut from a large loaf a round of bread half an inch thick. Trim away the crust, toast the bread, and butter thickly. Lay half the cheese upon it, pour half the seasoned butter upon that, and add, first the remainder of the cheese, then the rest of the butter. Put the bread in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and let it remain until the cheese is melted. Serve very hot. Time to toast the cheese, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for two or three persons. Welsh Rarebit (another wa.j).—See Cheese, Toasted, or Welsh Rarebit. West Country Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of good baking apples, weighed after they are pared and cored. SGnce them finely, and mix with them a quarter of a pound of currants picked and dried, a quarter of a pound of finely-grated bread-crumbs, three table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and two weU- beaten eggs. Press the mixture into a buttered mould which it will quite fill, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly till done enough. Send sweet sauce to table with it. If liked, cold boiled rice which has been drained from the milk in which it was boiled may be used instead of bread-crumbs. Time to boil the pudding, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for four- or five persons. West Indian Pepper Pot {sec Pepper Pot, West Indian). West Indian Pudding.—Take a quar- ter of a pound of stale sponge biscuits, crumble them into a bowl, and pour upon them half a pint of boiling cream nicely sweetened. Let them soak for an hour. Beat the mixture with a fork, and add three well-beaten eggs. Butter a small pudding-mould. Line it with preserved ginger cut in thin slices, and fill it with the pudding, placed gently into it T)y spoonfuls so as not to disturb the ginger. Cover it, and tie securely in a cloth. Put it in a saucepan upon a plate turned upside down, surround it with about three inches of boiling water, and keep the water boiling. When done enough, turn it out, and serve with the sjTup from the ginger made hot, and pom-ed over it. Probable cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Time, three-quarters of an houi- to one hour to steam the pudding.