( 627 ) POT POT Probable cost, Is. 6d., exclusive of the brandy. ■Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pudding (another way).—Mash three pounds of boiled potatoes, dry and floury. Mix with them four ounces of finely-shred beef suet, four ounces of grated cheese, the flesh of ji herring torn into flakes with two forks, and a quarter of a pint of milk. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a well-heated oven for half an hour. Probable cost, Is. ;Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Pudding (another way).—Take a iew potatoes, boil them well, and mash them fine with a little milk; then sweeten to taste, and press into a pie-dish. Beat one egg, and lay it on the top of the pudding with a little grated nutmeg. Bake for half an hour. Potato Pudding, Baked. — Rub a pound of boiled potatoes through a wire sieve. jVlix with a pinch of salt, two ounces of butter, melted, two egg yolks, sugar to taste, the juice .and grated rind of a lemon, and last the whisked whites of eggs. Bake in a buttered dish for lialf an hour. Serve hot. Potato Pudding, Cottage {see Cottage Potato Pudding). Potato Pudding, Sweet.—Bake half a dozen large potatoes, and when they are done ■enough break them open and scoop out the contents with a spoon. Beat them lightly, and with a quarter of a pound of the potato flour put three ounces of clarified butter, half a tea- spoonful of finely-minced lemon-rind, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt, three table-spoonf\ils of powdered sugar, and three table-spoonfuls of milk or cream. Beat the pudding for five or six minutes, then add separately the yolks and well-whisked whites of three eggs. Butter a plain mould, ornament it with dried frait or slices of candied peel, pour in the pudding, and bake in a well-heated ■oven, or steam the pudding if preferred. Turn it out before serving, sift sugar thickly over it, and garnish the dish with jam. Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour ; to steam, one hour. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Potato Pudding, with Ham, &c. (a German recipe).—Take some large potatoes, roast them, brsak them and scoop out the inside; to two quarts of potato add six ounces of butter and the yolks of four eggs; work through a sieve, season with pepper and salt. Butter well a mould and sprinkle it with broad crumbs or raspings; fill it about two inches deep with potato puree; then put a thin layer of ham, dressed veal, or anything else preferred, which cover with potato; then put a layer of moat again, and so on till the mould is filled. Bake the pudding for an hour, loosen the sides carefully with a knife, and turn out carefully that it may not break. _ Potato Puddings (Count Rumford's Re- cipes).—!. Mix together twelve ounces of boiled mashed potatoes, one ounce of suet, one ounce (a sixteenth of a pint) of milk, and one ounce of chooHo. The suet and cheese to be laelted, or chopped as fine as possible. Add as much hot water as will convert the whole into a tolerably stiff mass; then bake it for a short time in an earthen dish, either in front of the fire or in an oven. 2. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of milk, and one ounce of suet, with salt. Mix and bake as before. 3. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of red herring chopped fine or bruised in a mortar. Mix and bake. 4. Twelve ounces of mashed potatoes, one ounce of suet, and one ounce of hung beef grated or chopped fine. Mix and bake. Potato Puffs.—Put three table-spoonfuls of new milk into a clean saucepan with a couple of ounces of fi'esh butter, the thin finely-minced rind of a small lemon, and two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar. Let the milk heat very gently until the butter is dissolved. Add gradually three ounces of boiled potatoes, drj' and fioury, and beat the mixtm-e until it is light and per- fectly free from lumps. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and just before the puft's are to be baked the whites whisked to a firm froth. Butter some small patty-pans. Put the mixt'ire into them, and bake in a well-heated oven. Sift powdered sugar thickly over them, and sers'e very hot. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for haK a dozen pulfs. Potato Puffs (another way) Bake two large potatoes. "V\Tien done enough, burst them open and scoop out the contents with a spoon. Beat them until quite smooth, and mix with them two ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, a little grated nutmeg, a heaped table-spoonful of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a well- beaten egg. Divide the mixture into small cakes, fry them in hot fat till they are nicely bro'WTied, drain them on blotting paper, and serv'e verj' hot. Send white sauce to table with them. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 3d. Sufficient for one person. Potato, Puree of.—Peel and wash a pound of good regents. Boil and drain them, and beat them up with a fork. Stir in with them a quarter of a pint of good broth or thick cream, and pass them thi'ough a wire sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan with two ounces of butter and a little pepper, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is quite hot. Pour it into the centre of a hot dish, and arrange delicately- broiled cutlets—mutton, pork, or lamb—in a circle round it. Time, five or six minutes to heat the puree. Probable cost, 8d. if mixed with cream. Sufficient for a small dish. Potato Puree (anotherway).—Take some potatoes well boiled and well drained, pound them in a mortar, moisten with good broth and salt, then rub them through a sieve; wlien done, put the puree to warm in a stewpan, and add two ounces of fresh butter. Puree must be thinner than mash. Put fried bread round the puree. Sometimes cream may be used instead of broth; but it is not so wholesome, besides being much dearer. Potato Ribbons.—Wash and peel half a dozen large kidney potatoes, and let them lie in cold water for a few minutes. Cut them into ribbons, ro\md and round, like an dpple, and