( 1026 ) VAN infiision every day for a fortnight, and filter it for uso. Not a di'op of water must be put to this cordiiil. It is sometimes tinged of a pale green with the juiee of spinach instead of the saffii'on tint being imparted to it. Utensils, Kitchen {sec Appendix). Uxbridge Plnm Pudding (excellent). —Shi-ed a half-pound of suet very finely, mix with it half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of mashed potatoes, half a pound of grated carrots, thi-ee-quarters of a pound of picked and di-ied cui-rants, two oimces of minced candied peel, and a little gxated nutmeg. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Press them into a buttered basin or mould which they will quite fill, cover the mould with a saucer, and tie it tightly in a cloth. Plimge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling quickly untU done enough. A quarter of an hour before the pudding is wanted take it up, and before turning it out of the basin put it into the oven. This will remove any moisture it may have acquired in boiling, and cause it to turn out better. Send brandy or wine sauce to table with it. Time to boil the pudding, fuUy six hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. V Vacherin for Sweet Creams.—Take half a poimd of sweet almonds and half a pound of white sugar. Blanch, peel, and poimd the almonds, add the sugar, and moisten the mix- ture to a stifl: paste with white of egg. Sprinkle some powdered sugar on a pastry-board, and roll the almond paste upon it a quarter of an inch thick. Take a plain mould about six inches in diameter, line the sides with a band of paste one and a half inches deep, and join the ends securely together with white of egg. Stamp out a round of the paste a little larger than the bottom of the mould. Bake both in a gentle oven. When the paste is dry take it out of the oven, remove the band from the mould, and stick it upon the round. Put the case again in the oven, let it remain till it be- comes slightly coloirred, then let it get quite cold. When wanted, fill it with any nicely- flavoured whipped cream, piling the cream as high as possible. Valentia Wine.—Put a quart of mm and a quart of unsweetened gin into a jar. Add three quarts of cold water, three pints of boiling milk, one poimd and a half of loaf sugar broken into small pieces, the thin rind and strained juice of nine lemons, six cloves, an inch of stick cinnamon, an inch of whole ginger, one large nutmeg grated, and a pennyworth of saffron tied in muslin. Stir the mixture briskly for a few minutes, cover closely, and let it remain mitouched for three hours. Pass it through a jelly-bag till it is quite clear, and bottle for use. This wine may be used at once. Vanilla.—Vanilla is a flavourer used to impart an agreeable odour to creams, ices, cus- tards, coifoe, &c. It may be bought by weight, but the essence is the form in which it ii, 2a generally used. Vanilla - scented sugar also has recently been introduced into the market. VANILLA. {Vanilla Aromatica.) Showing Flower and Aromatic Seed-Capsules. Vanilla and Currant Bombe.—Take equal quantities of vanilla cream ice and red currant water-ice. Line a bombe mould with currant water-ice an inch thick. Fill the centre with vanilla cream ice, close the mould, and put it in ice till it is firmly set. Turn it out just before it is wanted, and cut it in slices convenient for serving. Dish these on a napkin. Vanilla Cream.—Soak an ounce of gela- tine in cold water for half an hour. Break a pod of vaniUa into small pieces, and soak these in a pint of boiling milk till the latter is pleasantly and rather strongly fiavoured. Add six ounces of powdered sugar and the well- beaten yolks of four or six eggs. Put this custard into a jug, set it in a saucepan of water, and stir it until it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Drain and add the gelatine, stirring the custard off the fire; the heat of the custard wiU dissolve it. Pour the cream into an oiled mould, and set it in a cool place till stiff. If liked, this cream may be enriched by the addition of a pint of whipped cream, which should be stirred lightly in when the custard and gelatine are cool. When this addition is made, two additional eggs and another half-ounce of gelatine will be required. The essence, instead of the pod of vanilla, may be used to flavoirr the cream. Time, about ten minutes to thicken the custard. Probable cost, if made without cream. Is. lOd. Sufficient for nearly a quart of cream. Vanilla Cream {see Cream, Vanilla). Vanilla, Cream Whipped with {see Cream Whipped with Vanilla). Vanilla Custard.—Cut half a pod of vanilla in pieces, and let it soak for an hour in a pint of milk or cream. Stir four table-spoon- fuls of sugar into it, and when this is dissolved add the well-beaten yolks of two, four, or six eggs. Put the custard in a bowl, and set this over a saucepan of boiling water. Keeo