( 767 ) BOL BOL of fresh yeast. Add a little hot milk, and knead the whole to a smooth shining dough. 'I'hrow a cloth over it, and put it into a warm place for two hours. When it is lightly risen, kuead it again thoroughly with the lists, let it rise once more, and divide it into pieces the size of a large turkey's egg. Koll these between the hands to the length of a finger, put them on floured baking-tins, leaving a little distance between them, and brush the tops lightly over w-ith milk. When the tops are brightly browned, break open one of the rolls, and if it is done enough take the rest out of the oven. Serve hot. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, ^d. each. No. 2. Mix a tea- spoonful of salt with two pounds of flour in a bowl. Rub into this a piece of butter the size of an egg, and make a hole in the centre of the flour, not quite to the bottom of the bowl. Pour into this a tea-spoonful of fresh light yeast, with three-quarters of a pint of warm milk and an egg,' add as much flour as will make a thin batter, sprinkle a little flour over it, and leave it in a warm place to rise. In about tlu-ee hours knead it thoroughly with the fists, and divide the dough into rolls. Lay these on a floured baking-tin, let them rise again for ten or fifteen minutes, brush over with milk, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost. Id. each. No. 3. Stir a sHce of fresh butter into half a pint of new milk imtil it is dissolved. Add half an ounce of sweet German yeast dissolved in a little warm water, and stir the whole into two pounds of flour which have been mixed with half a tea-spoonful of salt. Knead the dough thoroughly with the fists till it is smooth and shining, cover with a cloth, and set it on a warm hearth to rise. Divide it into rolls, lay these on a floured baking-tin, let them rise before the fire for half an hour, and bake in a moderate oven. When rolls are wanted fresh for breakfast, this dough may be kneaded overnight, and left on the hearth till morning. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. No. 4. Put a pint of hot milk into a bowl, and stir into it until dissolved two oimces of butter and two ounces of lard. Add a beaten egg, and let the milk cool, then stir the whole into a pound of flour. Knead it well, and put it into a warm place to rise. When light, add another half-pound of flom-, and let it rise again. Roll it out, stamp it into cakes, lay these in buttered pans, cover them, and let them rise. Whe.n light, prick them, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, l^d. each. Rolls, Bakers', American {see Bakers' Rolls, American). Rolls, Beef (Cold Meat Cooker\').—If cold boiled beef is objected to, it may be'warmed up as follows :—Cut the meat into thin slices of uniform size and shape. Sprinkle over each slice a little pepper and salt, with a pinch of chopped parsley, and a mushroom or an anchovy chopped small. Lay over the season- ing a slice of bacon of the same size as the beef, roll the meat up, and tie it round with thin twint). Fry the rolls in plenty of hot fat, and when thev nn- niccily browned all over. drain, and serve with brown gravj- poured over them. Time, fry till brown. Rolls, Brentford {see Brentford Rolls). Rolls, Cream of Tartar.—Mix a tea- spoonful of cream of tartar and half a tea- spoonful of soda with a pint of fine flour. Add as much milk only as will make the dough firm enough to be rolled out, and handle it as lightly as possible. Roll it out on a weU- floured board, and stamp it in rounds an inch thick. Bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Rolls, Flour and Potato.—Roll and dry one pound of potatoes, mix them with two ounces of sweet cream and half a pint of milk, and rub them thi-ough a wire sieve into a pound and a half of flour. ]Mix a gill of warm milk with a little yeast, and add this to the flour. Make into dough, let it rise before the fire, form into rolls, and bake quickly. Rolls, French.—No. l. Dissolve a quar- ter of an ounce of German yeast in a quarter of a pint of warm milk. Add a well-beaten egg, and stir the whole into a pound of flour into which an ounce of butter has been rubbed. Beat the mixture till it is stiff and smooth, let it rise for an hour, then—without kneading it —drop it in little lumps upon buttered tins, and bake in a well-heated oven. When it is nearly cold gi-ate oft' the outer crust. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. No. 2. Rub four oimces of fresh butter into two pounds of flour until it is as fine as oatmeal. Add half a tea-spoonful of salt, two beaten eggs, two table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast, and as much lukewarm milk as wiU make a soft dough. Dredge a little fiour over this, cover the bowl with a cloth, and put it on the hearth to rise. In about two hours make it into rolls three inches long and an inch thick. Lay these on a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. Two or three- minutes before they are done enough, brush them quickly over with milk. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. No. 3. Rub two ounces and a half of butter into one pound of fine flour, add a pinch of salt, the whites of three eggs whisked to a firm froth, and as much lukewarm milk as wiU make a soft dough. Cover the bowl, and set it on the hearth or in a warm place to rise. When it is light, which will be in about an hour, divide it into small rolls, and bake these in a quick oven. Time to bake, about a quarter of an hour. Rolls, French (another way). — Dr. Kitchiner gives the following as the bakers' method of making French rolls in his day:— Put a peck of flour into the kneading-trough, and sift it through the brass wire sieve; tlien rub in three-quai-ters of a pound of butter, and when it is intimately blended with the flour, mix up with it two quarts of warm milk, a quarter of a pound of salt, and a pint of yeast. Let these ingredients bo mixed with the flour and a sufiicient quantity of warm water to knead it into a dough; let it stand two hours to prove, and then be moulded into rolls or bricks, which should be j)laoed on tins and set for an hour in the prover. Place