( 1033 ) VEA VEA is in tho stcwpan pit^paro and cook separately young vegetables, such as young turnips, car- rots, onions, new potatoes, beans, and green peas. When wanted, heat these in a little of tho veal gravy, and place them fancifully round the veal. Pour a little of the sauce into the dish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Veal, Bride's Pie of (Scottish dish).— Take two large calf's feet, and boil them till they are quite tender. Make a mixture as for mince pies, with the calf's-feet flesh cut very small, a pound of finely-shred suet, a pound of apples pared, cored, and minced, half a pound of picked and dried currants, half a pound of raisins, two ounces of mixed candied peel, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and one small nutmeg grated. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and moisten them with a glassful of brandy and a glassful of port. Line a dish with good pastry. Put in the mince, and con- ceal a gold ring in it. Cover the pie with pastry, and ornament with any suitable de- vices. Bake it imtil the pastry is done enough. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Veal, Brisket of, and Rice.—Cut a brisket of veal into neat pieces, and stew it according to the directions already given. Boil a pint of washed rice very gradually in a little more than a quart of broth till it is tender and has absorbed all the moisture. Butter the in- side of a plain mould, and line it with the boiled rice an inch and a half thick. Put the veal into the centre with a little of the thicken- ing sauce. Cover the stew with rice, put on the lid, and bake the preparation in a gentle oven. Let it remain until stifE, and be care- ful that it does not burn. Turn it out upon a dish, and send the remainder of the sauce to table with it. If liked, to save trouble, a wall of rice may be placed round the dish, rice being served in the centre. The addition of a spoonful of curry powder or curry paste will convert this dish into curried veal. Time to bake the rice in the mould, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 4s. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Veal, Brisket of. Stewed with Onions.—Cut the brisket of veal into small pieces convenient for serving. Rub a stewpan quickly three or four times across with a freshly- cut clove of garlic. Dissolve in it a thick slice of fresh butter, put in the veal, and add three large onions thinly sliced, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little pepper and salt. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew its contents as gently as possible till done enough. . Shake the saucepan frequently to keep the veal from burning. Ten minutes before the dish is to be served pour over the meat a little stock, if this is needed. Throw in a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Let all boil up together, and serve the pieces of veal and the onions in a hot dish with the gravy poured over them. Garnish with toasted sippets and sliced lemon. Time to simmer tho veal, two hours. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sullicient for five or six persons. Veal Broth.—Stew a knuckle of veal in about a gallon of water, to which put two 2 ii» ounces of rice, or vermicelli, a little salt, and a blade of mace. When the meat has become thoroughly boiled and the liquor is reduced to about one half, it may be sent up to table with or without tho meat. Veal Broth, Brown.—Slice one or two onions, and fi-y them in hot fat till they are browned but not at all burnt. Cut a pound of veal into slices, and break the bone belonging to it into small pieces. Take up the onions with a slice, and brown the meat in the same fat. Pour three pints of stock or water upon the meat; add the bones with any bones and remains of cold roast beef or povdtry that may be at hand. Let it boil up, skim carefully, and simmer quickly until the gravy is suf- ficiently strong. Flavouring vegetables may be stewed with it or not, and a spoonful of ketchup may be added if liked. Time to sim- mer the stock, about two hours. Veal Broth for Invalids.—Cut two pounds of lean veal into small pieces. Sprinkle a little salt upon these, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of cold water. Let the liquor boil, skim carefuUy, then simmer as gently as possible. Strain it, let it get cold, and remove the fat from the surface. Thicken with a little arrowroot before serving. Time to simmer the veal, three hours. Veal, Bubble and Squeak of.—Take the remains of dressed veal; cut the meat into neat slices, fry these in hot fat, and put them before the fire to keep hot. Take some boiled cabbage or spinach. Fry this also, and when it is quite hot pile it on a dish, and arrange the pieces of meat round it. Send tomato or any kind of piquant sauce to table with it. Time to fry the veal and the greens, altogether about a quarter of an hour. Veal Cake.—Take a pound and a half of cold dressed veal freed from fat and skin. Mince it finely, and thoroughly mix with it half a pound of good bacon, also finely minced. Season the mixture with a tea-spoonful of gi-ated lemon-rind, a pinch of freshly-pounded mace, half a small nutmeg grated, "and a little salt and cayenne. Press it smoothly into a buttered dish, and bake in a gentle oven. When it is done enough, drain the fat from it, turn it upon a dish, and serve hot or cold. If hot, a little brown gravy should be sent to table with it. Beef suet finely shred may, if preferred, be substituted for the bacon, 'if any portion of this cake is left after being cut, it may be divided into slices, and heated in a Dutch oven. This cake should be baked in a gentle oven, or it will be dried up. Time to bake the cake, an hour and a haK. Probable cost, veal, lOd. or lid. per pound. Veal Cake (another way).—Take as much cold dressed lean veal as will fill a small earthenware mould. Mince it finely, and mix with it three ounces of ham or bacon, also minced, a slice of the crumb of bread soaked in milk, a small piece of butter, two eggs well beaten, as mucli minced shallot as will lie on a threepenny piece, and a little pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Mix those ingredients thoroughly, press them into a buttered mould