POT ( 686 ) POT Slice foui- or tivo poUitoea, thi-ow them into the sauce, and let them uimmor gently until tender. Servo immediately. If liked, the sauce van be flavoured witlx onion. Time to simmer the potatoes, ton minutes. Probable cost, 6d. <Sulhcieut for two persons. Potatoes, Sliced, with Parmesan.— Cut some tirm boilea, potatoes into slices. Place them in layers in a dish, and pour over «ach layer a small portion of white sauce. Put a little of the sauce smoothly over the top, and sprinkle over this some grated Parmesan cheese and bread-crumbs so as to cover it •entirely. Drop a little butter here and there on the top, put the dish in a well-heated oven until the potatoes are warmed through, and then serve. Cold potatoes may be warmed in this way, and they will be very good if the Panncsan is omitted and cream used instead of white sauce. Time to heat the potatoes, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. for a moderate-sized dish. Potatoes, Steamed.—Wash and pare some fiilly-grown potatoes, and as they are done throw them into cold water. Drain them, put them into a steamer, and place this over a saucepan of boiling water. Cover closely, and keep the water boiling until they are done enough. When a fork will pierce them easily they are ready. Shake the steamer over a bowl for a minute to give the potatoes a flowery appearance, and serve very hot. In order to steam potatoes it is, of course, necessary that the steamer should be made to fit the sauce- pan which contains the boUing water. Time, twenty to forty minutes, according to the quality of the potatoes. Probable cost, Id. to l^d. per pound. Sufficient, two pounds for four or five persons. Potatoes, Stewed (a la Fran^aise).— Wash eight or nine large potatoes in two or three waters. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with barely enough water to cover them, and let them simmer gently till they are half cooked. Peel them, and let them lie till they are almost cold; then cut them into slices half an inch thick. Melt an ounce of fresh butter in a saucepan, and mix half an ounce of flour smoothly with it. Add gradually three-quarters of a pint of boiling stock, four small onions finely shred, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Sunmer the sauce gently until the onion is quite soft. Put in the sliced potatoes, let them simmer gently imtil done enough, and serve m a hot dish with the sauce poured over them. Time to simmer the potatoes by themselves, a few minutes; in the sauce, ten minutes. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potatoes, Storing of.—H kept in a cool dry place, potatoes wlU keep good for many months, and as they are generally high in price during the winter months, it is a good plan to huy a quantity when they are cheap for use when they are dear. When spring comes they will begin to put out shoots, especially if they are kept in a damp place, and this will make them unfit for food. To prevent this, some cooks dip them for a moment into boiling water before storing thom. For domestic use, the best way to preserve them is to buy them with the earth still clinging around them, a« they are dug out of the ground, to lay them upon straw in a dry, cool collar, iind in winter time to cover them with straw to ke(;p the frost from them. They should be looked over care- fully before they are put way, and if there are any rotten ones amongst the number they should be removed, or they may contaminate the rest. When a large quantity are to be pre- served, a deep hole should be dug in the ground and lined with straw, the potatoes put into it, and covered with straw. Potatoes, Stuffed.—Hollow out large potatoes, and fill them with mealy potatoes beaten to a paste in a moitar with chopped parsley, chives and shallot, butter, fat bacon cut into dice, pepper and salt. Butter the insides of the potatoes, and nearly fill them with the above paste; put them on a buttered tin, and bake in a Dutch oven. When browned, serve. Potatoes, Substitutes for. — Oxalis Crenata, introduced from South America as a substitute for potatoes, which it resembles, may be dressed as follows:—Set the roots on the fire in boiling water, and when soft pour oflE the water, and place some hot cinders near the lid of the saucepan, which will thoroughly drj' the roots, and render them mealy. The stalks of the plant may be peeled, and used like those of rhubarb—in tarts. The Uerfeuil Bulbeux is another substitute for the potato. It is said to surpass that vegetable in nutritive qualities, containing more starch and fatty matter. It has a very agreeable flavour. Another substi- tute is a gigantic yam, a yard in length, from Rio Janeiro and New Zealand. Potatoes, Varieties of.—The varieties of the potato that are cultivated are very numerous, and new ones are constantly appearing. The soil in which the potato is grown wiU be foiind to have a considerable influence in determining the quality of the potato; and almost every district has its peculiar varieties, their names being quite arbitrary or local. Most kinds are vastly improved by removal to a different locality; hence growers rarely use for many years in succession their own tubers for seed, but continually renew the stock by purchases from another district. One tuber will produce as many separate plants as it has eyes, but a piece of the potato must be planted with each eye or shoot. The many varieties differ in form, size, colour, and time of ripening; some are more prolific than others, some are naturally waxy and watery, and some are mealy, which is an unfailing characteristic of the best kinds. Potatoes with Sauce.—Put some butter in a stewpan, thicken it with flour, and fry some onions in it till they become biown. Pour over them some stock broth, and season with salt and pepper, nutmeg, and vinog:ir. When the onions are sufliciontly cooked, add some cooked potatoes; let Ihcm remain until they are hot, and then serve immediately.