( 800 ) SAL SAL enough scrape the sciiUs from the ealmon, and lay the pifcoa in a lino on a dish about an inch apart from one auothor. Have ready prepared some good gonoveso sauce, pour sonus of this over the tish, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Thti sauce maybe prepared as follows: —Mince finely a quarter of a pound of un- di-essed lean ham. Tut this into a saucepan with the red part of a small can-ot scraped to pulp with a sharp knife, a blade of mace, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a slice of fresh butter. Cover the saucepan closely, and let its contents steam very gently for three-quarters of an liour. Dredge a tea- spoonful of fiour over the preparation, rub out the lumps, then moisten the whole very gradually with a pint of good veal stock. Simmer the sauce an hour longer, strain, and skim it, put it into a clean saucepan, add a spoonful of brown thickening, and when it is smooth and thick add two table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies, a wine-glassful of good sherry, and a little salt or cayenne. Time to make the sauce, two hours. Or lay a small slice of fresh butter in a saucepan, and when it is dissolved put in with it a moderate- sized onion or two shallots finely minced, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, two bay- leaves, a small blade of mace, and a little pepper and salt. Stir these ingredients over a gentle fire for ten minutes, then moisten gradually with half a tumblerful of sherry or madeira, and let them simmer gently for half an hour. Take two slices of salmon a little more than an inch thick. Put them into a separate saucepan, and strain the sauce over them. Stew the fish gently in this, and when it is done enough, which it will be when it will leave the bone easily, pour olf the sauce into another saucepan, leaving only as much as will keep the salmon from burning. Put with the sauce half a pint of strong veal stock, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, the strained juice of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of brown thickening. Boil the sauce till it is smooth and thick, and add pepper and salt. Lift the salmon on a hot dish, pom- part of the sauce over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. Probable cost for this quantity, 4s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Salmon (a la Genevoise —Ude's recipe). —"Take a few shallots, some roots of parsley, a bunch of ditto seasoned with spices, thyme, bav-leaves, and a few carrots. Let the whole be li"-htly fried in a little butter, then moisten with°white wine (madeira in preference) . Let it boil for three-quarters of an hour. When this (called the marinade) is done, dram it through a tamis over the fish, which stew m this seasoning. As soon as the fish is sut- ficiently stewed, drain it, pick it well of all the scales, and return it into the vessel wherein it was boiled with some of the liquor to keep it hot Now reduce some of the marinade with a littie strong gravy or stock, skim all the fat off and then throw in a good piece ot butter kneaded in flour and a httlo essence of an- chovies, all which run over the salmon alter having drained it. Some will have lemon-]uice to it, which is a matter of taste." SElnxoU (a la Gcuiivcjise—another way).— Take a good slice of salmon, and put it in a fish- kettle with shallot, chopped parsley, muehrooms, salt, and spice to taste, and an equal quantity of broth and red wine. Boil the iish, and wher done enough take it out; have ready in a sauce- pan a piece of butter rollt d in two spoonfuls of llour, tliinned with some of the liquor of the tish, let this sauce boil, then pour it over the salmon, and serve. Salmon (a I'lndienne).—Prepare the cut- lets as for Salmon a la Milanaise. Dip them into clariiied butter, and sprinkle over them a savoury mixture, made with a table-8lx>onful of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, and a pinch of salt. Fry in plenty of hot fat till the flesh will leave the bone easily, then drain the cutlets on blotting-paper, and serve on a hot dish, with sauce prepared as follows poured over and around them:—Mince four shallots very finely, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar over them, and simmer till tender with a table-spoonful of good vinegar. Pour over them a quarter of a pint of stock, let the sauce boil, add a tea-spoonful of curry paste, a table-spoonful of pickle vinegar, and three table-spoonfuls of mixed Ladian pickles cut into dice. Simmer for a few minutes, and serve. Time to broil the cutlets, fifteen to twenty minutes, according to thickness. Pro- bable cost, sahnon, when plentiful. Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon ( a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Slice a moderate-sized onion into a dish. Put with it five or six small sprigs of parsley and a little pepper and salt, and pour over these a little good salad oil. Lay side by side in the marinade three slices of salmon one and a half inches thick. Let them remain for half an nour, and turn them over once during that time. Drain them, and broil over a gentle fire. Dish them neatly, garnish with plainly-boiled potatoes and green parsley, and send a Httle maitre d'hotel sauce to table with them. This sauce may be made as follows:—Work an ounce of flour smoothly with two ounces of fresh butter, and add a quarter of a pint of milk, and a httle pepper, salt, and grated nut- meg. Stir the sauce over the fire tUl it is hot and smooth; add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley and the strained juice of half a lemon. When the sauce is on the point of boihng, pour it into the tureen, stir in it until dissolved a smaU piece of fresh butter, and ser^-e. Tune to broil the salmon, about twenty minutes. Pro- bable cost. Is. per pound when in full season. Salmon ( a la Milanaise).—Take three or four slices of salmon, not over thick; spht each one into halves, and take away the skin and bone. Dip the cutlets into sherp". lay them between sheets of buttered or oiled wi-iting-paper which have been rubbed lightly with frc^shly-cut gariic, and t^^^8t the edge^s securely. Broil gently over a clear fire and serve on a hot dish. Send to table with the fish a sauce prepared as foUows:-lake two fil- leted anchovies and put them into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, two or throe young onions finely minced, and a tuhle-spoonful of , minced mushroom. Stir these over tlie fire tiU