PLA PLA ( 680 ) heat of tho oven. Smetir the bottom well with butter; then scatter over it a layer of gi-atod bread-crumbs and chopped parsley, with a little chopped shalot and three chopped mushrooms, if liked. On this lay the plaieo, white side uppermost; pour on it a toa-spooiiful of lomon- juicu and two table-spoonfuls of gravy; after- wards sprinkle on it fine bread-crumbs and pai-sley. Set the dish in the oven, which should be brisk enough to brown tho bread-crumbs. As soon as any juice comes away, baste the fish with it, and continue to do so till it is done enough. Serve in the dish in which it was baked, and just before serving .sprinkle over the fish a few drops of lemon-juice. Plaice, Boiled.—Empty and clean the fish. Cut a slit through the skin from the head down the back, to prevent the white side breaking in boiling. Put it into cold water with ^ a table-spoonful of salt, and a wine- glassful of vinegar. Let it boil, and carefully remove the scmn, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer gently until done enough. The time required will of course depend upon the size of the fish, and great care must be taken that the plaice does not break. Four or five minutes only will be sufiicient for a moderate-sized fish. As soon as the flesh appears to shrink from the bone it is done enough. Large plaice, however, are the best for boiling. Serve the plaice on a neatly-folded napkin, with shrimp sauce, pars- ley sauce, or plain melted butter, in a tureen. Garnish the fish with parsley or sliced lemon. Probable cost, when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient, one moderate-sized plaice for two persons. Plaice, Broiled.—Next to frying this is the best way to treat plaice. Should the fish be inconveniently large, divide it, and broil the pieces by twos and threes. The fish can be cut up into squares by di^dsion along the backbone, and then transversed. Plaice, Choosing.—Kentish fishermen say the plaice is not at its best until it has tasted May water ; but it is eatable during the greater part of the year. When the fish is fresh, plump, clear-skinned, and with the orange spots on the back brightly coloured, it may be safely handed over for cooking. Plaice, Filleted.—Skin the plaice. Lay it flat on the table, and with the point of a sharp knife cut right down the back-bone. Insert the knife close to the head, slip it under the flesh, and pass it from head to tail. By this means the fillet may be removed entire and smooth. Trim the ends neatly, and the fish is ready to be fried or stewed. Almost all fish- mongers send tho plaice already filleted if desired to do so. Plaice, Filleted and Stewed with Oysters.—Fillet two or three moderate-sized plaice. Dry them with a soft cloth, sprinkle a little salt over them, dredge them lightly \vith flour, and fry them in plenty of hot dripping until they are nicely browned. Beard and drain a dozen oysters. Put their liquor into a fltewpan with a quarter of a pint of white stock or water, a glass of white wini, three anchovies, and a little pepper, salt, and <jratud nutmeg. Hunmer it gently for a few minutes, th(3n put in the fish with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it remain until the sauce is smooth and thick. A minute or two Ijofore serving the fish put in th(! bearded oysters. When they are hot, lay the plai(« on a hot dish, and serve the sauce round it. Time to fry the plaice, according to thickness, say until it is a bright golden colour. If the fish is very thick the pan should be held high above the fire. Probable cost of moderate-sized pkice when plentiful, 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient for four or five persons. Plaice, Fried.— Fried plaice are best when they are filleted before they are fried {see Plaice, Filleted). Indeed this is by far the most satisfactory mode of dressing this fish. If preferred, the plaice may be cut across into pieces about two inches wide. Sprinkle a little salt over the fish, and let it lie for two or three hours. Dry it well, dredge it with flour, then dip it into beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of bread raspings over the top, and fry the fish in plenty of hot fat until it is brightly coloured. Drain well, and serve on a hot napkin. Garnish with green parsley. If preferred the plaice may be simply' floured instead of being egged and breaded, or it may be fried in batter. (See Batter for Frying.) Plaice, Stewed.—Take two or three moderate-sized plaice, cut them into pieces about as wide as the length of a finger, sprinkle a little salt over them, and wrap them in a cloth for twenty minutes. Shce a moderate- sized onion, and fry it in a little hot fat until it is quite tender. Put it into a stewpan, lay the pieces of plaice on the top of it, and add the juice of five or six lemons, a wine-glassful of water, and a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, and be careful not to let the liquid reach the boil- ing point. Lift the fish out, and place it on a hot dish. Let the sauce cool, stir ^udually into it three well-beaten eggs, and keep stirring over the fire imtil it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Pour it over the fish, and serve hot. Garnish with slices of lemon. Time, altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, according to the number of the fish, which, when plentiful, cost 6d. or 8d. each. Sufficient for three or four persons. Plain Pudding, Ellen's.—Line a pie or pudding-disli with thin slices of bread and butter. Peel, core, and slice some apples, lay them in layers in the centre of the lined dish, adding here and there a smaU lump of fresh butter, some grated lemon-peel, and sugar; fill up the dish, and lay at the top some thin slices of bread and butter soaked in cold milk. Cover the top with a plate or dish, and put a weight on it to press down tho fruit. Bake for three hours in a slow oven. An hour before the piulding is done enough remove the plate or dish and the weight, and let it brown on the top. When ready, turn it out of the pie-dish into the one on which it is to be sent to table. Plaits of Pastry .— Make half a pound of pufl^-pasle, and give it nine tunis {sec Puff- paste). Roll it out liU it is half a quarter of