POM POM ( 597 ) the Persians badana, or seedless, are imported into India from Cabul and Candahar, where the tree grows in perfection. The fruit brought to this country from the South of Europe and the West Indies is very inferior to that of Persia. The pomegi-anate, in addition to its valu- able qualities, possesses great historic interest. POMEGKANATE AND FLOWEK. "We find it often mentioned in the Bible, where it is included in the fruits of Palestine, with the vine, the fig, the oUve, and other 'pleasant fruits.' It likewise grows wild in Barbary. Phny says that the Romans brought it from Carthage in the time of Sylla. It was likewise well known to the ancient Greeks, and held in great esteem by them. The story of Proserpine is familiar, who, having been carried oflE by Pluto, was prevented from returning to the earth in consequence of having tasted of this fruit in the Elysian fields. Pomegranates are frequently represented in ancient sculp- ture." The name pomegranate is derived from "pomum granatum," a kemelled apple. Pomegranate W'ater.—Carefully take out the deep-coloured pips from three ripe pomegranates, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon. Mix with them six ounces of roughly-powdered sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, three-quarters of a pint of water, two or three drops of cochineal, and half a dozen drops oi the essence of elder flowers if it is at hand; if not, it may be dispensed with. Filter the liquid until it is clear, and it is ready for serving. Time, about twenty minutes to prepare. Probable cost, pomegranates, 4d. to Is. each. Sufficient for a pint and a quarter of pomegranate water. Pomegranate Water Ice.—Take the ruby pips from two ripe pomegranates. Place them on a fine sieve over a basin, and bruise them well with the back of a wooden spoon to draw out the juice. With half a pint of this mix half a pint of strong syrup, the juice of a large fresh lemon, two or three drops of cochi- neal, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the rind of an orange which has been rubbed upon two or three large lumps of sugar and crushed to powder; freeze in the usual way. Time, about twenty minutes to prepare. Pro- bable cost, pomegranates, 4d. to Is. each. Suf- ficient for a little more tiiaii a pint of water icu. Pomfret Puddings.—Rub the rind of a fresh lemon upon two or three limips of sugar untU aU the yellow part is taken off. Add a little more sugar to make the weight up to a quarter of a pound, then crush the sugar to powder. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Add a pinch of salt, two well-whisked eggs, the powdered sugar, and a quarter of a pound of flour, and beat the mixture briskly for two or three minutes. Three parts fill some small cups with it, and bake in a brisk oven. When the puddings are done enough, turn them out upon a hot dish, and send wine sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for half a dozen cups. Pomme Mange.—Take two pounds of apples weighed after they are pared and cored. Cut them into thin slices, and put them into a saucepan with the thinly-cut rind of two small lemons, half a pint of water, and one poimd of loaf sugar. Boil the fruit until it is stiff and dry. Beat briskly for a minute or two, take out the lemon-rind, and press the apples into an oUed mould. Put it aside until cold, and turn out before serving. Time, var3dng with the quality of the apples. Probable cost, lOd. Sufficient for a moderate-sized mould. Pommes, Gateau de {see Gateau de Pommes). Pomona Jelly.—Take half a dozen good- sized and rather acid apples—Keswicks will answer excellently for the purpose. Pare, core, and slice them, and as they are done throw them into cold water to keep them from turning yellow. Drain them, and put them into a saucepan with six ounces of loaf sugar and a very small quantity of water to keep them from burning, and let them simmer gently until they are quite soft. Press them through a coarse sieve, and mix with them half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine which has been dissolved in less than half a pint of water. Rub three large lumps of sugar upon the rind of a fresh lemon till the yellow part is taken oflE; add this to the jelly. Stir the jelly over the fire until it is quite hot, put it into a mould, and set it in a cool place to stijSen; turn out before serving. Time to stiffen, twelve hours. Probable cost, lOd. if made with gelatine. Sufficient for a pint of jelly. Pompadour Pudding, Rich. —Pour a third of a pint of boiling cream upon two ounces of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and let them soak until cool. Beat well with a fork, and mix vsdth them five ounces of finely-shred beef suet, an ounce of flour, two ounces of macaroons crushed to powder, three ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of table raisins weighed after the stones are taken out, two oimces of dried cherries, four ounces of candied peel cut into thin slices, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a nutmeg grated, and a pinch of salt. When these ingredients are well mixed, stir in the yolks of four eggs and a glassful of brandy. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould which it will fiU to the brim, cover with oiled paper, and tie securely in a floured cloth. Boil or steam the pudding until it is done enough, let it stand a minute or twy