WHI ( 1117 ) WHI with a table-spoonful of milk, and stir in gradu- ally half a pint of boiling milk; add the stock, and servo inunediatoly. When veal bones or cold meat liquor are not at hand, take one pound of the scrag end of a neck of veal, and a slice of thin lean ham, or a piece of bacon-iind ■which has been scalded and scraped; put them into a stewpan with a small carrot, a turnip, one large onion, a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and four pepper- corns. Pom- over the ingredients half a gallon of cold water, let the liquor boU, skim care- fully, then draw it back, and simmer gently till it is strong and good. Strain it, and when cold, free it entu-ely from fat, and it will be ready for being converted into white soup. Time to simmer the stock, three hours. Probable cost of the scrag end of the neck of veal, 7d. or 8d. per pound. Sufficient for five or six persons. White Soup, Family.—Take four pounds of the knuckle of veal and one pound of lean ham, put them into a stewpan, pour over them three quarts of water, and add an onion stuck with a clove, a bunch of parsley, a small sprig of thyme, half a bay-leaf, a small blade of mace, the thin rind of a quar- ter of a small lemon, and eight peppercorns. Let the liquor boil, skim carefully, draw it to the side, and simmer gently till the meat ia tender. Take up the veal, and serve it separately with parsley sauce. Strain the liquor, and when cold, free it entirely from fat. When it is wanted, put it into a stewpan and let it boil; mix two table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a smooth paste with three table- spoonfuls of cream, add half a pint of new milk, and stir this into the soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, and serve immediately. Time, two hours to stew the veal. Probable cost of veal, 5d. or 6d. per pound. Sufficient soup for ten or twelve persons. White Soup, Portable.—Procure as fine a leg of veal as can be got, remove the whole of the skin and fat, chop in pieces two dozen fowls' feet, wash them well, put them into a largo iron kettle -with three gallons of water, stew untU the meat is tender enough to separate, cover down close, and stew for eight hours; take a tea-cup and fill it with the soup; set it where it can quickly cool. If when cold it is hard enough to cut -with a knife, strain through a sieve and remove all the fat, pour into cups the clear jelly, put them into a stewpan with boiling T.-atsr until they are like glue; let them cool, and w^hen nearly cold run a ring round them and turn them on a piece of new flannel; it will draw all the moisture out of them : turn them in seven hours, and continue until they are qiute hard. Put them in. tin canisters in a dry place. When any is re- quired, cut a piece about the size of a walnut, pom- a pint of boiling water upon it, stir until the soup is dissolved, season with salt; it will make a basin of strong broth. If for soup, steep some vermicelli in water, boil it, then to one cake of the soup pour one pint of water. If two quarts or four pints of soup are required take four cakes of the soup, and when melted,' set H over the fire and simmer, pour it into a soup-tureen, add thin slices of bread verj' lightly toasted, and upon them the vennicelli; season to taste. White Stock for Sauces and Soups (to make a lai-go quantity) .—Take a large stew- pan perfectly tinned, butter it well, and line the bottom with thin slices of lean ham. Lay upon these some lean veal cut into pieces about two inches square, and also any bones and trimmings of veal or poultry there may be ; an old hen will be a valuable addition. Pom- in as much stock as will cover the meat, cover the stewpan, and boil the liquor quickly tUl it is of the consistency of gum. Draw it back before it can acquire any colour, and fill the stewpan -ndth common stock. Add a hand- ful of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, a bay-leaf, two onions, each stuck with three cloves, half a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. Sim- mer the stock gently, carefullj^ removing the scum as it rises, for about two hours, strain thi'ough a sieve, and put it aside till cold. Eemove the fat from the top, and pour the liquor off free from sediment before using it. When filling up the stewpan it should be remembered that a quart of stock should be allowed for each pound of veal and fowl com- bined. White Wine Jelly (Calf's-foot Stock). —Take one quart of cold calf's-foot stock entirely free from fat and sediment, and measured whilst hot. Put it into a saucepan with the thin rind of a small fresh lemon, the strained juice of two lemons, six ounces of roughly-pounded sugar, and the well-whisked whites and crushed shells of two fresh eggs. Mix all weU together; then put the sauce- pan on a gentle fire, and whisk its contents thoroughly till the liquor rises high in the pan. Stop whisking at once, put the lid on the saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, to let the impurities harden and form a crust. Wring a jelly-bag out of boUing water, pour the contents of the saucepan into it, and without squeezing the bag let the liquor run through it. If it is not clear, pour it thi-ough a second and even a third time; but this should not be done unless it_ is necessary, as it wastes the jelly. "WTienit is quite clear, stir into it from a quarter to three-quarters of a pint of white wine, according to taste. Pour the jelly into moulds which have been soaked in cold water, and let it stand in a cool place till stiff. If the jelly is to be served in glasses, pour it into a shallow dish, and when cold, take it up ^vith a des- sert-spoon and put it into the glasses. If the caH's-foot stock is not very firm, or if the weather is warm, soak from a quarter to half an ounce of gelatine or isinglass in two table- spoonfuls of cold water for an hour. Stir into this a cupful of boiling water, and add the liquor to the calf's-foot stock. Time to boil the jelly, twenty minutes. Probable cost, ex- clusive of the wine and without isinglass, Is. 8d. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. White Wine JeUy made with Isin- glass or Gelatine.—Soak an ounce of isin- glass or gelatine in as much cold water as will cover it for an hour. Pour upon it three-