( 606 ) PIG PIK nuts. Tako oflE the brown skin, throw thorn into boilin{jf water, and lot them remain for two minutes, then blanch them like almonds. Weigh them, and mix with every tlireo ounces an equal weight of fat bacon, minced as finely as possible, an ounce of finely-grated bread-crumbs, and a little salt, cayemie, and gi-ated nutmeg. Pound the mixture thoroughly, and moisten with beaten yolk of egg. iStiift two pigeons with this forcemeat, truss them firmly, cover their bvc;ists with a slice of fat bacon and a vine-leaf, and roast them before a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish, with the bacon and vino-leaves over them, and send nicely-seasoned brown gravy to table in a tureen. Time to roast the pigeons, twenty minutes. Probable cost, 2s. Sufficient for two persons. Pigeons, Trussed.—Pigeons need to bo very carefully plucked and cleaned, and they should, if possible, be drawn as soon as they are killed. They are very good roasted with a slice PIGEONS TRUSSED. of bacon over the bread, and a vine leaf under the bacon. To truss for roasting :—Cut off the head and neck, cut off the toes at the first joint, and wash the bii-ds well. Dry them carefully, truss the wings over the back, and pass a skewer through the wings and body. The gizzard may be cleaned and put under one of the wings. To truss for boiling :—Cut off the legs at the first joint, put the legs into the body, and skewer the pinions back. Pigeons, Vol-au-Vent of.—RoU out a piece of puff-paste [sec Puff-paste) to the shape and size of the dish in which it is intended to serve the vol-au-vent. It should be a little more than an inch in thickness. Make a knife hot in water, and with it mark the cover evenly an inch from the edge all round. Ornament the border in any way that may be preferred, and brush the vol-au-vent quickly over with yolk of egg. Put it at once into a brisk oven. When it is sufficiently risen and brightly coloured, take it out. Take off the marked cover carefully, and scoop out the soft paste from the inside, without injuring the outside. Put the vol-au-vent back into the oven for a few minutes to drj', and fill it with the pigeons and sweetbreads prepared as follows:—Divide two freshly-killed young pigeons into neat joints. Put two veal sweetbreads into a saucepan, cover them with lukewarm water, and set them over the fire until the water boils; then lift them out, and plunge them at once into cold water. Cut them into neat pieces of uniform shape and size, and bind these securely together with twine. 1 ut the sweetbreads, with the pigeons, into a stew- pan, pour a cupful of water over them, and qAjI an onion, a bunch of parsley, a small spng of thjTne, a bay-leaf, a shce of fat bacon, half an ounce of butter rolled in fiour, and a little popper and salt. Siinm(;r gently for half an hour, then remove the twine from the sweet- breads, strain and thicken the gi'avy if neces- sary, and fill the vol-au-vent with the fricassee. The sauce must be very thick, or it will soften the light pastry. Probable cost, 48. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pigeons with Rice and Parmesan. —Stew until tender three or four plump young pigeons according to the directions given for Pigeons, Stewed. Boil half a pound of best Carolina rice in a pint of stock, and add to it, if necessary, a seasoning of salt, pepixir, and grated nutmeg. When it is tender, throw in an ounce of grated Parmesan, and shake the saucepan until the cheese is dissolved. If there is any danger of the cheese oiling, add a little more stock. Put the pigeons on a hot dish, spread half the rice round them, and cover them with the remainder. Brush the rice over with, beaten egg, strew grated Par- mesan thickly over, and bake in a slow oven until the rice is brightly coloured. The best way of doing this is to sjjread a layer of salt upon a flat baking-tin, put the dish con- taining the pigeons and rice upon this, and serve them on the dish in wluch they are baked. If prefei-red, macaroni may be used instead of rice. Time, half an hour to stew the pigeons ; about an hour to boil the rice; about a quarter of an hour to bake it. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for fonr persons. Pike.—This fish is found in most of the lakes of Europe, particularly in the noi-th. Naturalists have disputed as to whether it is indigenous in England, but the opinion of the best authorities is that sufficient proof exists of THE PIKE. its being a native. The size of the English pike is considerable. Instances have been known of their attaining the length of tliree feet, and the weight of forty pounds. In Lapland and Russia they have been found eight feet long. The usual colour of the pike is a pale olive grey, deepest on the back, and marked on the sides by several yellowish spots or patches ; the abdomen is white, slightlv spotted with black ; the mouth is furnished with a prodigious number of teolh The pike is so voracious that he is often callo.l the fresh-water shark. He attacks and devours all smaller fish, and sometimes faUs a victim t^ his own greed by his inability to swallow a fasiv