( 760 ) BOA BOA has been woU Bcoured with this, dry it with a (. loan rloth. If spits aro wiped clean as soon as till! meat is drawn from tliom, and wliile tli(!y aro hot, a very little cleaniup will he required. The less the spit is passed through the meat the better ; and before you spit i^ joint it pro- perly, especially necks and loins, that the carv(;r may separate thorn more easily and neatly. Small families have not always the convenience of roasting with a spit, a remark upon roasting with a string may therefore bo necessary. Lot the cook, before she puts down her moat to the fire, pass a strong skewer through each end of tlie joint; by this means, when it is about half done, she can with ease turn the bottom up- wards ; the gravy will then How to the part which has been uppermost, and the whole joint will be deliciously gravy-full. A bottle-jack is a valuable instrument for roasting. A Dutch oven is another very convenient utensil for roasting light joints, or warming them up. Roasting should bo done by the radiant heat of a clear glowing fire, otherwise the meat is, in fact, baked. All your attention in roasting will be thrown away if you do not take care that your meat, especially beef, has been kept long enough to be tender. Make up your fire in time ; let it be propor- tioned to the dinner to be dressed, and about thi-ee or four inches longer at each end than the thing to be roasted—or the ends of the meat caimot be done nice and brown. A cook must be as careful to proportion her fire to the business she has to do as a chemist—the degree of heat sufficient for di'essing the different sorts of food ought to be attended to with the utmost precision. The fire that is but just suf- ficient to receive the noble siiioin will parch up a lighter joint. From half an hour to an hour before you begin to roast, prepare the fire by putting a few coals on, which will be sufficiently lighted by the time you wish to make use of your fire ; between the bars and on the top put small or large coals, according to the bulk of the joint, and the time the fire is required to be strong; after which throw the cinders (wetted) at the back. Never put meat down to a bumt-up tire, if you can possibly avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a con- siderable distance, and allow a little more time. Preserve the fat by covering it with paper, and then tie it on with fine twine—pins and skewers can by no means be allowed; they are so many taps to let out the gravy ; besides, the paper often starts from them and catches fire, to the great injury of the meat. If the thing to be roasted be thin and tender, the fire should be little and brisk; when you have a large joint to roast, make up a sound, strong fire, equally good in every part of the "•rate, or your meat cannot be equally roasted, nor have that uniform colour which constitutes the beautv of good roasting. Give the fire a good stii-ring before you lay the joint down : examine it from time to time Avhile the spit is going round ; keep it clear at tho bottom, and take care there are no smoky coals in the front, which will spoil the look and tusto of the meat, and hinder it from roastmg evenly. When the joint to be roasted is thicker at one end than the other, place the spit slanting, with the thickest part nearest the tire. IJo not put meat too near the fire at first - the larger the joint, the farther it must be kept from the fire. If onco it gets scorched, the out- side will become hard, and aajuire a disagree- able empyreumatic taste; and the fire being prevented from penetrating into it, the meat will appear done before it is more than half done, besides losing the pale brown colour, which is the beauty of roasted meat. From 14 to 10 inches is the usual distance at which meat is put from the grate when first put down : it is extremely difficult to oflier any- thing like an accurate general rule for this, it depends so much upon the size of the fire, and on that of the thing to be roasted. Be very careful to place the dripping-pan at such a distance from the fire as just to catch the drippings—if it is too near, the ashes will fall into it, and spoil the drippings. If it is too far fi'om the fire to catch them, you will not only lose your drippings, but the meat will be blackened and spoiled by the foetid smoke which will arise when the fat falls on the Hve cinders. A large dripping-pan is convenient for several purposes—it should not be less than twenty- eight inches long, and twenty inches wide, and have a covered well at the side from the fire to collect the drippings—this will preserve them in the most delicate state; in a pan of the above size you may set fiied fish and various dishes to keep hot. The time meat will take roasting will vary according to the time it has been kept and the temperature of the weather—the same weight will be twenty minutes or half an hour longer in cold weather than it will be in warm, and if fresh killed than if it has been kept till it is tender. A good meat screen is a great saver of coals. It should be on wheels, have a flat top, and not be less than about three feet and a half wide, and with shelves in it, about one foot deep—it will then answer all the purposes of a large Dutch oven, plate-warmer, hot hearth, &c. Some are made with a door behind; this is con- venient, but the great heat they are exposed to soon shrinks the materials, and the currents of air through the cracks cannot be prevented, so they are better without the door. Everybody knows the advantage of slow boiling—slow roasting is equally important. It is difficult to give any specific rule for time, but if your fire is made as above di- rected, your meat screen sufficiently large to guard'what you are dressing from currents of air, and the meat is not frosted, you cannot do better than follow the old genera) rule of allo-wing rather more than a quarter of an hour to the pound—a little more or less, according to the temperature of the weather, in proportion as the piece is thick or thin, the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and the frequency with which you baste it; the more it is basted the less time it ^vill tjike, as it keeps the meat soft and mellow on the outside, and the fire acts with more force upon it. Reckon the time, not to the hour when dinner is ordered, hut to the moment the roasla