SHE ( 857 ) SHE sieve. "Wash the brains, free them from fibre, tie them in muslin, and lot them boil for a quarter of au hour. Beat them smoothly, mix with thom a table-spoonful of floirr and three table-spoonfuls of new milk, and stir them into the curry sauce. Stir the mixture gently till it boils, sti-ain it over the meat, add a_ little salt, and simmer the curry for a few minutes without lotting it boil. Serve on a hot dish, and send rice boiled for curry to table with the sheep's head. Time, three hours and a half. Probable cost, 2s. SujQBlcient for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Fish.—A fish that goes under this name is plentiful in the latter part of summer on some parts of the coast of North America. It is highly esteemed for the table. Its weight is sometimes as much as fourteen or fifteen pounds. A very large fish is sometimes sold in New York for a price equal to four or five pounds sterHng. Sheep's Head for Invalids.—Wash and clean a sheep's head thoroughly, split it in halves, take out the brains, soak it ia luke- warm -water for an hour or two, dry it, and j)ut it into a stewpan with two pounds of lean beef. Pour three pints of cold water into the pan, and add a small turnip, half a lettuce or endive, a small lump of sugar, a spoonful of made mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Let all simmer gently together for two hours, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Cut the meat from the cheeks in neat pieces, small enough to be put into the mouth without being cut, lay these aside, and cover them to keep them moist. Put the bones and trimmings of the head back into the soup, and stir into it a table-spoonful of fine oatmeal which has been beaten to a smooth paste with a cupful of cold water. Simmer the soup for two hours longer, and strain it. Skim away the fat, put the pieces of meat back into the soup, and stir it over the fire till it is quite hot without boiling. A glassful of port may be thrown into the soup before serving. The tongue and the brains may be served separately. Time, four hours and a half. Probable cost, sheep's head. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. Sufficient for about a pint and a half of soup. *v,^5®®P'^ Head, Gallimawfried-Split the head, remove the brains, and soak it in lukev?arm water for an hour. Wash and soak the liver and heart, and cut the pipes out of the latter. Dry the meat thoroughly, put it mto a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and two large onions; cover with cold water, let the liquor boil, skim carefuUy, and simmer gently for three hours. Take up the heart and liver, cut these into small pieces, and mmce them finely. Put the mince into a saucepan, dredge flour thickly over it, and stir it well over the fire with a table-spoonful of any good store sauce, two table-spoonfuls of cream, a slice of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon-rind, and as much of the liquor in which it was boiled as wiU moisten it. Put the head in the centre of a hot dish, lay the minco round it, and garnish with toasted sippets. I'he appearance of the dish wiU bo improved if the head is egged, breaded, and browned bef^^re being put on the dish. The brains and tongue may be served on a separate dish. Or the tongue may be served with the head, and the brains may be cleaned, boiled in vinegar and water with a little salt, cut in slices, and placed between the halves of the head {see Sheep's Brains and Tongue). If not objected to, part of the lights may be boiled and minced with the heart and liver. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. lOd. Sufficient for five or six persons. Sheep's Head, Hashed. —Wash the head, split it in halves, and soak it in luke- warm water. Clear the brains from fibre, and leave them in cold water till wanted. Put the head and the tongue into a saucepan with two onions and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with cold water, let this boil, skim it, and draw the pan to the side of the fixe that the head may simmer gently until done enough. Take it up, cut it into neat slices, flour and pepper these, and put them into a clean saucepan with the two onions that were boiled with them finely minced. Mix a dessert-spoonful of flom- to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and stir into it half a pint of the liquor in which the head was boiled. Add a large spoonful of any good store sauce and salt and pepper if required. Pour the sauce over the slices of meat, add a spoonful of minced parsley and a spoonful of brown thickening, and let all simmer gently, without boiling, for half an hour. Serve the hash on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. Tie the brains in muslin, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Mince them, and beat them up with a table-spoonful of scalded and chopped parsley, half a cupful of milk, and haK a cupful of the Hquor in which the head was boiled. Boil them for a few minutes, thicken with flour and butter, and season with pepper and salt. Keep the tongue hot until the last moment. Skin it, lay it in the centre of a dish, pour the brains round, and serve hot. Time, altogether, three hours and a half to four hours. Probable cost, sheep's heads. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for two or three persons. Sheep's Head Pie (a breakfast or luncheon dish).—Scald, clean, and boil in the usual way a sheep's head and a gang of trotters. Cut off the meat in neat pieces, and pack these closely in a pie-dish; season with pepper, salt, and finely-minced onion; lay little pieces of butter here and there upon them, and pour over them a little of the liquor in which the head and feet were boiled. Cover the dish with pastry, and bake the pie tiU it is done enough. Let it get cold, take off the crust, and serve it cut into thin slices like bra-mi. Garnish with parsley. Time to bake, one hour. Sheep's Head Soup.—Take two sheep's heads, wash, split, and 8o<ik them in lukewarm water, remove the brains, and put them into a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, two can-ots, a turnip, two onions, a leek, three or four sticks of celery, a small lump of sugar, a spoonful of mixed mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Pour two quarts of water over all,