(721 ) BED BED wcU-fod buck venison rather than that of the red deer. BED DEEB. Red-eye or Budd.—This is a common fish in lakes, slow rivers, fens, &c., in England, and .also in many parts of Eiirope. It bears a marked resemblance to the roach, but is shorter and deeper. It is better eating than the roach. The name "rudd" refers to the colour of the fish, which is very rich. Bed Herrings or Bloaters, To Pry. —Split the herrings open, and cut off their heads. Melt a little butter or dripping in a frying-pan, put in the fish, and shake the pan over a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish vsdth a small piece of butter laid on each bloater. Time to fry, five minutes. Probable cost. Id. or l|d. each. Sufficient, one or two for each person. (For other ways of cooking, see Herrings, Red.) Bed Liquor to Colour Cordials, &C.—^Take half a pound of boiled beet-root sliced, half an ounce of Jamaica pepper in powder, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, three oimces of sugar-candy broken small, one pint of pure water, and one pint of proof spirit of wine. Put these ingredients into a stone jar, tie closely over with wet bladder, set it in a pan of hot water for six or seven hours, then let it stand for a week ; strain, and filter. Bottle it, and seal the corks; it wiU keep many months. Bed Mullet.—It is said that this fish was so highly esteemed by the ancient Romans, that on one occasion £234 7s. 6d. was given for three. This high price was not paid on ac- count of their edible value, but to gratify the artistic passion of those who loved to watch the beautiful changing colours of the dying fish {nee Red Mullet, Roman Cookery of). Red mullet is a fish quite dififerent from and much superior to the grey mullet, with which it is sometimes confounded. It is dressed without being gutted, and on this account is sometimes spoken of as the sea-woodcock. It may be hnd all the year round, but it is in perfection only when the roe is forming—that is, during the heat of summer. The best muUot are those which are very red and short, with bright clear eyas and firm flesh. Unlike most fish, thoy are better for being kept a short time. Thoy are seldom RED MULLET. boiled, though they are frequently broiled, baked, and fried. In cleaning them it will be necessary only to scrape them lightly, and to i)ull out the gills, when as much of the inside aa ought to be removed will come away with them. Bed Mullet [see also Mvdlet, Red). Bed Mullet, Baked.—Scrape a good- sized mullet lightly, pull out the gills, and with them the thread-Hke gut. Be careful not to injure the liver. Rub the mullet with lemon- juice, and put it into a shallow dish with a chopped mushroom, a shallot chopped small, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, two or three small slices of carrot, a little pepjaer and salt, and a wine-glassful of light wine. Put the disb in a gentle oven, and bake the mullet until done enough, basting at intervals with butter or salad-oil. Serve on a hot dish, with the sauce from the pan poured over the fish. It will require baking from twenty to thirty minutes. Or, prepare, wash, and dry three mullets. Put them in a shallow dish, and sprinkle over them a moderate-sized onion chopped small, a table-spoonful of cho2jped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Pour a little salad-oil or oiled butter over them, and let them bake gently xmtil done enough. Put into a saucepan a tea-spoonful of salad-oil and a dessert-spoonful of chopped onion. Stir these in- gredients over the fire untU the onions are tender, dredge a Uttle flour over them, add the liquor from the fish, a little chopped parsley, and a glassful of wine. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is so thick that it coats the spoon, and add, if liked, a little cream, and the juice of half a lemon. Serve the fish on a hot dish, with the sauce poured over it. Time to bake, from twenty miautes to thirty minutes. Pro- bable cost of mullet, from 6d. to 3s. each. Bed Mullet, Baked (another way).— Butter a metal pie-dish, lay the fish in it, pour over them about a wine-glassful of flour and water or good broth, lay pieces of butter on them, and baste all the time they are cooking. The gravy wliich comes from them is red; the