TUB TUR ( 1018 ) Turtle.—Tho turtle, or boh tortoise, is fo\ind in most of tho soaa of warm climates. Tlio green turtle is the variety used for making tho celebrated turtle soup which forms such a iiol(!d feature of muuicipal frasts, iuiudrods of quarts being served every yeiu- at the Lord Mayor's dinner. This soup is so e.xponsivo, and also so ditHeult to prepare, that it is seldom made in private houses; if it is wanted, it is bought TURTLE. ready-made, the cost being a guinea a quart. The turtles from -which soup is made in England are sent alive from the West Indies. They vary in weight from 30 pounds to 600 pounds, and in price from Is. to 2s. per pound, according to the state of the market. Many cooks use the tinned turtle instead of the live turtle. A small tin may be had for 8s. or 10s., with which six or eight quarts may be made. The most convenient way of making a small quantity of turtle soup is to use di'ied turtle, which may be bought of any respectable Italian warehouseman, at a cost of about 10s. per pound. The recipe for making it is given on p. 1020, Turtle Pish..—Take equal quantities of fresh ling, haddock, or codling and of skate, cut the fish into neat slices, wash and clean them, and fry them in hot fat tiU they are lightly browned. Drain them, and stew them in good gravy thickened with flour and butter, and seasoned rather highly with salt and cayenne. Add the meat of a lobster and a dozen or more oysters with their liquor. A little wine may be added or not. Serve the preparation in a soup tureen. A couple of cods' sounds, stewed in spinach-juice till they are coloured gi-cen, and afterwards cut into neat squares and put into the gravy, may be added to the prepara- tion, as an imitation of the green fat of the turtle. Timo altogether, about three-quarters of an hour. Turtle, Mrs. Glasse's Recipe for Dressing.—Dressing a turtle in the West- India way is thus described by Mrs. Glassc: — Take the turtle out of the water the night before you intend to dress it, and lay it on its back; in the uiorniug cut its throat, and let it bleed well; then cut off the finn, scald, scale, and trim them with the head; then raisij tho under shell (the calipee) clean off, leaving to it as much meat as you conveniently can; then take from tho back shell all the nu'ut and entrails except the momieur, which is the fat, and looks green—that must be bak(.d to and with tho shell. Wash all clean with siilt and water, and cut it into pieces of a moderate size, taking from it the bones, and put them with the fins and head into a soup pot with a gallon of water, some salt, and two blades of mace. When it boils, skim it clean, then put in a bunch of thyme, parsley, savory, and young onions, and your veal part, except about one pound and a half, which must be made force- meat of, as for IScotch collops, adding a little cayenne pepper. When the veal has boiled in the soup about an hour, take it out, cut in t)ieces, and put it to the other part. The intes- tines (reckoned the best part) must be split open, scraped, and cleaned, and cut in pieces two inches long. The paunch or maw must be scalded and skinned, and cut as the other parts the size you think proper; then put them with the other parts, except the liver, with half a pound of fresh butter, a few shallots, a bunch of thyme, parsley, and a little savory; season with salt, white pepper, mace, three or four beaten cloves, and a little cayenne pepper; let them stew about half an hour over a clear fire, and put in a pint and a half of madeira wine and as much broth as will cover it, and let it stew till tender. It will take five hours doing. "When almost done, skim it, and thicken it with some flour mixed with veal broth, about the thickness of a fricassee. Let your forcemeat balls be fried about the size of a walnut, and stewed half an hour with the rest. If any eggs, let them be boiled and cleaned as you do knots of pullets' eggs; and if none, get twelve or fourteen yolks of hard eggs. Then put the stew into the back shell (which is the calipash), with the eggs all over, and put it into the oven to brown, or do it with a sala- mander. The calipee must be slashed in several places, and moderately seasoned with pieces of butter, mixed with chopped th^-me, parsley, yoimg onions, salt, white pepper, beaten mace, and a little cayenne pepper; put a piece on each slash, and then some over, and a dust of flour; then bake it in a tin or iron dripping-pan in a brisk oven. The back shell (or calipash) must be seasoned as the calipee, and baked in a diipping-pan, set upright with four brickbats or anything else. An hour and a half will bake it, which must be done before the stew is put in. The fins, when boiled very tender, to be taken out of the soup, and put into a stewpan, with some good yeal gravy, not high-coloured, a little madeira wine, seasoned and thickened as the ciilipash, and serv ed in a dish by itself. Tho lights, heart, and liver mav be done in the same way, only a little higher seasoned ; or tho lights and heart might bo stewed with tho calipash, and taken out before you put it in tho shell, with sonu; sauce, adding a little more seasoning, and dish by itself. The veal part may be made fricandeaux or Scotch collops of. Tlu^ liver should never bo stewed witli the C4ilipash, but always dressed