( 808 ) SAL with a view to mako tho salt ponetrate more ett'ectually. In some places, instead of a Hat l)oaid a shallow wooden trough is used, by which moans tho brine is kept about tho fish ; Boniotimos two or three salmon are kippcnsd together in the same vessel, one being laid upon tho other. The fish, with the board or trough, is set in a cool place for two or tliroo uays; it is then removed from tho board, and again rubbed with salt and pepper, after which it is hang by the tail, and exposed to the rays of the sun or tho heat of the fire. Caro is pre- viously taken to stretch out the fish, by means of small sticks or hooks placed across it from side to side; after it has remained in the heat a few days it is hung up in a dry place until used. Some people, in order to give tho kijjper a peculiar taste, highly relished by not a few, carefully smoke it with peat-reek or the stalk of juniper bushes. This is commonly done by hanging it up so near a chimney in which peats or juniper bushes are burnt as to receive the smoke. There it remains two or three weeks, by which time it generally acquires the required flavour." Salmon, Marinaded—No. i. Cut three moderate-sized onions in slices, and chop into small pieces a turnip, a carrot, and three or four outer sticks of celery. Add two table-spoon- fuls of chopped pai'sley and two bay-leaves. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, with a slice of fresh butter, and stir briskly over a quick fire for eight or ten minutes. Pour over them a pint of vinegar, and add a dessert- spoonfiil of salt, a dozen peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Simmer the pickle for a few minutes, and add three pints of water. Put in two or more thick slices of salmon, and boil them gently until done enough. Leave the fish in the marinade till cold, and serve with a little of the pickle (strained) in the dish with it. No. 2. Cut some slices of salmon an inch and a quarter thick, brush them over with clarified butter, and fry in hot fat till they are lightly browned. Let them get cold, then lay them in an earthen jar. Boil as much vinegar as will cover them for ten minutes with a sliced onion, one or more bay-leaves, a piece of thin lemon-rind, a sprig of tarragon, and a little salt and whole pepper. Let the marinade cool, and strain it over the salmon. A little oil poured over the top will make the salmon keep for some time. Salmon, Matelote of. — Boil in the usual way two or three thick slices from the tail end of a large salmon, or, if liked, boil instead a sinall salmon, trussed in the form of the letter S. When done enough, drain the fish, put it upon a dish without any napkin, and pour over it and around it some sauce prepared as follows : ■—Put three-quarters of a pint of thick brown sauce into a stewpan with eighteen button- onions which have been fried in butter till brown. Lot them boil for ten minutes, and add two glassf uls of claret, a small lump of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence. Stir the fiance over the fire until it is thick and coats the spoon. After it is taken from the fire, stir a small piece of fresh butter in it until dis- solved. Mushrooms or oysters may be added to this sauce if hked. It ought to bo very savoury. When brown sauce is not at hand, it may bo easily and quickly made by kneading together in a saucepan etjual proportions of butter and flour, stin-ing the mixture quickly over a slow fire till it is lightly browned with- out being at all burnt, and moistening it with stock made from Ijones, or, failing this, with water. Time to make the sauce, half an houi'. Probable cost of salmon, when plentiful, Is. to Is. 4d. per pound. Salmon, Matelote of (another way.— Take two or three sHces of salmon, lay them in a small kettle with a strainer, stew them very gently in a quart of veal gravy and a gill of Harvey's Sauce for twenty minutes; lift out the strainer with the fish, pour oft the gravy into a stewpan, return the st rainer with the fish to keep warm, thicken the gravy with arrow- root, season with pepper and salt, add a quarter of a pint of sherry, a gill of capers, a dozen of pickled gherkins cut in slices; pour the whole back again over the slices of salmon. Let them simmer five minutes, and serve immediately. Salmon, Mayonnaise of.—ilayonnaise of salmon consists of salmon boiled and then allowed to go cold, served vnth. salad and mayonnaise sauce. It is a dish which is very highly esteemed, and one which affords ample scope for the display of the artistic faculty. The salmon may be boiled and dished whole, or it may be divided into flakes two inches long and an inch wide. Instructions for both methods are here given. The salmon may be boiled in the usual way, or for a superkitive dish it may be dressed as follows:—Put a moderate-sized carrot sliced into a saucepan with four shallots, a handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of chervil, a bay-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a slice of fresh butter. Steam the ingredients for four or five minutes, then pour in as much boiling water as will barely cover the fish, and add two glassfuls of light wine. Put in a piece of salmon weighing about five pounds, let it boil up quickly, skim the liquor, then draw the saucepan back a little, and simmer the fish gently till it is done enough; drain it, and leave it till cold. If the salmon is to be served whole, dish it on a napkin, garnish round with small salad and crayfish, and stick prawns and parsley into the salmon with silver skewers. Send mayon- naise sauce to table in a boat. When the salmon is to be broken up, boil it, let it get cold, remove the skin and bone, and divide into neat pieces. Trim these neatlj', and if plainly boiled, season each one with oil, vine- gar, pepper, and salt. Trim and wash two largo lettuces or any other salad. Dry the leaves perfectly by shaking them in a napkin held by the four comers. Shred them finely, put a layer of salad in a bowl, place on this two table-spoonfuls of the sauce, and then part of the salmon, with a little more sauce, and repeat until all the ingredients are used. Ornament the top with slices of fresh cucumber, garnish the base with a border of hard-boiled eggs, prawns, <S:c.,and let a trollis-work of hpetront rest upon tho eggs. Tho decoration of this dish may be