PIG ( 553 ) PIG liquid inside it. Let the sucking-pig get quite cold, and remove the cloth before sending it to table. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing for.—A sucking- pig is usually filled with a stuffing prepared as foflows:—Take half a pint of finely-grated bread-crumbs. Mix with them a dozen sage- leaves, chopped smaU, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Moisten these with two ounces of clarified butter and the well-beaten yolk of an egg. One onion or more, chopped smaU, may be added or not, according to taste. Time, a few minutes to prepare. Probable cost, 4d. Sufficient for one young pig. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Chestnuts for.—Peel, scald, and blanch half a hundred chestnuts, and boil them in a pint of milk, with a pinch of salt and half an ounce of butter. When they are done enough, drain and dry them, and mix them ynth. one pound of good pork sausage meat. Fill the body of the pig, and sew it securely. When the pig is filled with this forcemeat, a sauce, made as follows, should be sent to table with it:—Peel, scald, and blanch six ounces of sound chestnuts, and stew them in three-quarters of a pint of good brown gravy until they are sufficiently tender to be rubbed through a hair sieve. Stir into the pulp half a dozen table-spoonfuls of rich brown sauce, season rather highly with mace and cayenne, and add a little salt, if necessary. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, and serve immediately. A glassful of madeira or sherry may be added or not. Time, twenty minutes to boil the chestnuts for the stuffing; one hour and a quarter for the sauce. Pro- bable cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for one pig. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Potatoes for. — Potatoes mashed with milk, and seasoned with pepper and salt, are sometimes used as a stuffing for roast sucking-pig. Any of the ordinary sauces may be sent to table with this dish. Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Truffles for.—Take one pound of English truffles. Wash and brush them well, changing the water several times, dry them, and cut each one into quarters. ^Mince half a pound of fat bacon finely, and pound it to a paste. Put it into a stewpan, with the truffles, a clove of garlic, half a tea-spoonful of chopped thyme, a bay-leaf, and a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Let these ingredients simmer over a gentle fire for ten minutes, when they will be ready to put mside the pig. When the pig is fiUed with this forcemeat a sauce, made as follows, should be sent to table with it:—Wash, wipe, and pare four truffles, and chop them very small. Put them into a stewpan, wth half a pint of thick brown sauce, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and a glassful of sherry, and let them boil for ten mmutes. Mix with them half a tea-spoonful of Liebig's extract, and a tea-spoonful of tho essence of anchovy. Boil up once more, and servo. Probable cost, uncertain. Sufficient for one pig. Pig, To Cut up for Bacon (see Bacon, To Cut up a Pig for). S*" - Pig's Blood.—Black puddings arc made with pig's blood and oatmeal. Tho blood of animals, it is to be remarked, is rich in restora- tive matter, and although when an animal is killed it is usually treated as refuse, blood may sometimes advantageously be used as food. Pig's Cheek, Boiled.—If the cheek has been di'ied, soak it for three or four hours ; if it has been taken fresh from tho pickle it will require only to be washed in two or three waters. Put it into a saucepan, cover with cold water, bring the water to a boil, and let it simmer gently until tender. Draw oflE the rind, and cover the outside of the check with, bread-raspings. Put the cheek before the fire for five or six minutes, that the raspings may set. A bag of raspings may be bought at the baker's, a pint for 2d., or they may be made of pieces of stale bread, which have been, dried slowly in a cool oven until they are brown and hard, and then crushed to powder. Time to boil the cheek, two hours and a half from the time of boiling, if the cheek is fresh ; three hours if it has been dried. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Pig's Cheek, Boiled, and Served with Vegetables.—Take half a pig's head, remove the brains and tongue, and put it into a deep pan. Eub it well with half a pound of common salt, and let it lie for three or four days, turning and basting twice a day. When it is to be cooked, wash it, and put it into a stewpan, with four quarts of cold water; bring it to a boil, skim it well, and -put with it a few outer sticks of celery, one or two sliced onions, and a dozen peppercorns. Lot it sim- mer until it is done enough, then di-ain it from the liquid, serve on a hot dish, and send potatoes and boiled greens to table with it. Some cooks like the vegetables boiled with tho cheek, and served round it. The liquid in which it has been boiled may be converted into excellent pea-soup. Time to boil the check, two hours and a half. Probable cost, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Pig's Cheek, M. Soyer's Mode of Dressing.—Take a nicely-pickled pig's cheek. Let it boil gently until it is quite tender. Tie half a pint of good split peas loosely in a cloth, put them into boiling water, and boil them for an hour; then take them out, pass them through a hair sieve, and mix with the pulp a little pepper and salt, an ounce of butter, and four well-beaten eggs. Stir the mixture ever the fire until the eggs begin to set, then spread it upon the cheek, brush over with, beaten egg, sprinkle bread raspings on it, put it in tlie oven a few minutes, and serve. Time, two hours and a half to boil the cheek. Probable cost of cheek, 8d. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pig's Cheek, Pickled.—Split open a pig's head, take out the brains, cut out tho snout, and chop off the upper bono, to mako the cheeks a good shape. K;ib the cheeks with salt, and let them lie for two or three davs. Boil a handful of common salt, half a pound of bay salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, four ounces of moist sugar, and a pennyworth of cochiueBl.