RED BED ( 722 ) colom- may be heightened by a tea-spoonful of ossonco of shrimps or anchovy, but should not be discoluurod by ketchup, Uoadiuf^, or other black-brown sauce. Servo the lish in the dish in which they were baked. Red Mullet en Papillote.—Take out the gills, wash, wipe the fish caref ally, and Hour it. Take a piece of letter-paper, cut it in the shape of a heart, and oil it. Season with pepper and salt, lay the mullet on one side, and season this also. Fold the paper over, and turn over the edges securely. Broil the fish on a gentle fire untU it is lightly browned on both sides without the paper being at all burnt, and serve it in the paper on a hot dish. It will be excellent ^vithout sauce, but if this is required, melted butter, anchovy sauce, Dutch sauce, or Itiilian sauce may be sent to table with it. Sometimes a little good sauce made as for baked mullet {see the preceding recipe) is spread over the fish inside the paper. Mullet en papillote may be baked as well as broiled. A little sauce may then be made with the liquor which comes from them, mixed with a glassful of wine, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy, and a tea-spoonful of soy, thickened with a little flour, and stirred over the fire till smooth. Time to broU, twenty to thirty minutes. Red Mullet, Filleted and Fried.— Take half a dozen red mullet, scrape them lightly, cut off their heads, cut them open, take out the inside, and carefully preserve the liver. Divide the fish in halves, and lift the flesh from the bones, so that each mullet will make two fiUets. Dry and flour these, and dip them either into egg and seasoned bread-crumbs, or into a little frying-batter. Fry in hot fat, and when they are Ughtly browned on both sides serve on a hot dish, and send a sauce prepared as follows to table with them :—Beat the boiled livers of the fish with the back of a wooden spoon till they are smooth. Drop them into a saucepan containing the third of a pint of thin melted butter made with water in which the livers have been boiled for five or six minutes. Stir the sauce over the fire tiU it is thick, season with pepper and salt, and just before serving add to it a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice and haK a glassful of claret, if liked. Time to fry, ten minutes or more. Red Mullet, Fried.—Melt two ounces of butter in a frying-pan. Put in one good- sized or two small mullet, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and season with pepper and salt. Let them fry over a gentle fire until they are done enough, tm-ning them over when half done that they may be equally cooked. Serve on a hot dish, either plain or with melted butter, Dutch sauce, or anchovy sauce. Time to fry the fish, a few minutes. Red Mullet, Marinaded and Broiled. Prepare the mullet in the usual way. Rub each one with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juico and a tea-spoonful of salad-oil, and sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over it. Lay all the fish in a dish, sprinkle over them a table-spoonful of chopped parsley and two shallots finely minced, and let them Uo for three hours. Fold in buttered paper, and broil according to the directions given for lied Mullet en Papillote. Time to broil, twenty to twenty-five nunutes. Red Mullet, Roman Cookery of.— The iloHians Btirvud tlie iiiiiliet with a season- ing of pepper, rue, onions, dates, and mustard, to which they added the flesh of the sea-hog reduced to a pulp, and oil. When the hver alono was to be eaten, it was cooked, and then seasoned with pepper, salt, or a little garum; some oil was added, and hare's or fowl's Hver, and then oil was poured over the whole. " The unbridled and cruel luxury of ancient liome," says Soyer, " required that this fish should bo cooked by a slow tire, on the table and under a glass, that the guests might gloat on its suft'er- ings before they satiated their appetites with its flesh. It is true this barbarous gratification was very expensive, and it was necessary to be very rich to indulge in it, consequently it was decidedly very fashionable, quite natural, and in very best taste." Red Mullet, Sauce for.—Red mullet fried or boiled are very good without sauce. When this is required, however, plain melted butter, Dutch sauce, anchovy sauce, or Italian sauce is the most suitable, or a sauce may be prepared as follows :—Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a paste, and with them two ounces of clarified butter, a salt-spoonful of unmixed mustard, a dessert-spoonful of dried flom', a tea-spoonfui of vinegar or lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Mix with this paste a third of a pint of cold water, put the mixture into a saucepan, and stir over the fire till it boils. Throw in a dessert-spoonful of finely-shred parsley, let the sauce boil once more, and serve. A sauce for baked mullet may be made accord- ing to the directions given in the recipe for Red Mullet, Baked. Red Mullet, Stuffed. — Scrape and wash the fish, ana wipe them quickly. Make a little forcemeat with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, butter, pepper and salt, and a spoonful of finely-grated bread-criunbs. Fill the mullet with this stuffing, wrap the fish in buttered paper, and broil over a gentle fire. When done enough, remove the paper, and serve the fish on a hot dish with a little melted maitre d'hotel butter imder them, or failing this, with maitre d'hotel sauce in a tureen. Time to broU, twenty to thirty minutes. Red Pears, to Preserve.—Weigh a dozen pears, pare them, and cut them into halves. Take their weight in sugar, and boil it to a clear syrup with half a pint of water to each pound of sugar. Add half a dozen cloves, an inch of stick cinnamon, a few drops of cochineal,.and a glassful of port; put in the pears, and simmer them very gently till they are clear and brightly coloured. Take them out, and put them into glasses. Boil up the syrup, strain it, pour it over the fruit, and cover the glasses in the usual way. Store in a cool dry place. Time, three or four hours. Red Rice Pudding.—Take a pint of the exproHsod juice of rod currants or raspberries, a glassful of wine, and a little sugar. Let the