POT ( 631 ) POT slices. Cold potatoes which are left from dinner may, if tirin, bo di-essed in this way for break- fast. If cream is not at hand, milk slightly thickened with flour and butter may be substi- tuted for it. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or Mve persons. Potatoes (a la Duchesse).—This, it has been said, is " the acme of delicacy in the cooking of potatoes." " Prepare some potato paste as for croquettes {see Potato Croquettes). When this is cold, mould it with a very small quantity of flour into oblong or round cakes. Fry these in clarified fat, first on one side then on the other, and take them out the instant they have ac- quired a delicate golden-brown colour. With moderate care, potatoes thus cooked are de- licious." Potatoes (a la Maitre d'Hotel).—Boil or steam a dozen kidnej- potatoes in the usual way, and cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Put them into a saucepan with two or three spoonfuls of white sauce or gravy, two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, four ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt. Shake the saucepan over the fire until the potatoes are covered with the sauce and quite hot, then squeeze over them the juice of a large fresh lemon, and serve. Time, ten minutes to heat the sliced potatoes. Probable cost, 8d. Suf- ficient for four or five persons. Potatoes (a la Maitre d'Hotel)—Another way.—Wash the potatoes, and boil them in their jackets in salt and water. When they are done, let them cool, then turn them in the shape of large corks, and cut them into slices about as thick as a shilling—if the slices are too thin they will break in the sauce. Make a butter sauce, mix with it a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little glaze, and the juice of a lemon if acid is required. Take care that the sauce is neither curdled nor too thick, and pour it gently over the potatbes after they are dished. Potatoes and Eggs {see Eggs and Pota- toes) . Potatoes au Lard (a French recipe).— Cut some bacon into small pieces, put it in a stewpan with a bit of butter, and let it bro-wTi. When the bacon is three parts done, throw in a little flour, add salt, pepper, parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf. Moisten with some stock. When these ingredients have boiled a few minutes, put in the potatoes half done, peeled, and cut into pieces. Skim, clean, and serve. Potatoes, Baked.—Choose large potatoes of uniform size. Wash them well in luke- warm water, and scrub the skins with a soft brush. Put them in the oven, or in a Dutch oven, and bake until done enough. Do not let them remain in the oven after they are cooked, or they will become hard and shrivelled. Serve, neatly folded, on a hot napkin, and send pats of butter to table with them. Some cooks cut a little slice from the top of the potato after it is baked, mix with the pulp a pinch of minced shallot, a little pepper and salt, and a quarter of an ounce of butter, then put on the hd, and serve hot. Time to bake, two hours if ] of a good size. Probable cost of potatoes. Id. ' and 1 Jd. per pound. Sufficient, allow two for each person. I Potatoes, Beef Steak and Pried {see Beef Steak and Fried Potatoes). Potatoes, Beef-steaks with (French, fashion).—Take some thin slices of rump of beef, flatten them, and season with a little salt, pepper, &c. Dip these slices into a little- butter, that the gravy may not drop out whilst broiling. Have some parsley chopped very fine- and mixed with butter, salt, pepper, lemon, &c> Wlien tlie beef-steaks are done, put the above- ingredients under the steaks, and all around fried potatoes of a fine brown colour. Glaze the beef-steaks; you may serve them with dif- ferent sauces, as mushroom, oyster, and sauce hache. Potatoes, Beignets of.— Take some potatoes ; bake them, take off their jackets and pound them with a little salt, cream, a little- butter, and a glass of brandy. A whole egg- should be added whilst pounding till the paste is so thick as to be easily formed into balls.. Let the paste cool. Form it into balls, brush these over with egg, frj- them in verj- hot fat,, and serve with sugar sifted over them. Potatoes, Boiled.—"VSTien about to boill potatoes, pick them out as nearly as possible of one size, or the large ones will be hard when the small ones are reduced to pulp. If this cannot easily be done, cut them to one size. Wash them well, remove the specks or eyes, and pare them as thinly as possible, not only to avoid waste, but because the best part of the potato* is near the skin. As they are pared, throw them into cold water, and let them remain in it until wanted. An iron saucepan is preferable to a tin one for cooking them, as it prevents them, boiling so fast, and the more slowly they are- boiled the better. Put them into a saucepan with barely enough cold water to cover them, and as- soon as the water boils throw in a little more- cold water. This will check the heat,, and keep the potatoes from breaking before they are done through. Thrust a fork into them occasionally; and as soon as they are soft take them up, pour off the liquor, and let them stand by the side of the fire with the saucepan partially uncovered till the moisture has evaporated and they are quite dry. If they are allowed to remain in the water after they are done enough, they will certainly be spoilt. Serve very hot. When potatoes are done before they are wanted, they should be drained and left in the saucepan by the side of the fire, and instead of. the lid folded cloth shovdd be laid over them. This- wiU absorb the moisture and keep them hot and in good condition for some time. In order to make boiled potatoes look floury, boil and drain them as above, and whilst they are drying by the side of the fire shake the saucepan vigorously every minute or two. This will give them a very good appearance, but it is rather wasteful, as a good portion of the potato stickt to the side of the pan. Time, according to the quality of the potato, from half an hour to an hour and a half. Probable cost. Id. or l^d. per pound. Sufficient, two or three potatoes for each person.