( 630 ) POT POT Potato Stuffing, for Goose and Sucking Pig. — Wiibli and pool IhroD or iuur liu-gu sound pututous, smd cut thorn into vory small pieces, i'ut tlioni into a stowpan with two ounces of butter, a tablo-spoouf ul of linely- shrod piirsley, a little popper, suit, and grated nutmeg, and, if liked, a tinely-niiuced onion. Cover closely, and let thuin steam over a gentle fire until thoy arc tlu'oo parts cooked; they must not be so soft that they will fall to pieces. Shake the saucepan now and then to keep them from burning to the bottom. Mince the liver of tlio pig or goose, and put it with the potatoes. Stir the mixture over the fire for a minute or two, and it will bo ready for use. If liked, one or two cold fried sausages may be freed from skin, cut np small, and used instead of the liver. Time to steam the potatoes, about twenty minutes. Probable cost, 6d. Sufficient for one smaU pig. Potato Stuflang for Sucking Pig {see Pig, Sucking, Stuffing of Potatoes for). Potato, Sweet.—After the introduction of the potato into this country it used to be confounded with this plant, which it resem- bled and from which it received its name. The sweet potato was originally a Malayan plant, and was brought into England long be- fore the introduction of the potato. It was considered a great delicacy, and was made into a confection. It is still cultivated to a certain extent in Spain and the South of France. Shakespeare alludes to the sweet potato in his Merry Wives of Windsor—" Let the sky rain potatoes and hail kissing-comfits." Besides being used in Spain and France, the sweet potato is largely eaten in tropical America. It may be employed as food by way of a substitute for the potato. Potato Turnovers.—Mince finely the remains of cold roast meat—beef, mutton, veal, or ham. Take away the pieces of skin and gristle, season the -mince highly with salt and cayenne, and add a small proportion of chopped pickles. Mash some cold boiled potatoes, and make them into a paste with a little flour and one or two beaten eggs. Dredge a little flour over this, and roll it out. Cut it into rounds the size of a saucer. Put a little of the mince upon one half of one of these rounds, and fold the other half over it like a turnover. Pinch the edges neatly, and make up the rest of the pastry in the same way. Fry the turnovers in hot fat till they are brightly browned. Drain them, and serve very hot. Time to fry, four or five minutes. Probable cost, 2d. each. Potato, Wliolesomeness of the.— The potato forms an excellent article of diet, as it contains a large quantity of farinaceous nutriment. When well boiled it is generally easy of digestion. " There are, however," says a medical authority, " certain states of the stomach when potatoes are huiiful, as where there is a tendency to flatulency and feeling of fullness after meals; and also in persons who are just recovering from severe illness, or in cases of bowel complaint, as they are apt to increase the irritation in the intestinal canal." Such potatoes as boil " waxy" are far from wholesome}. The same may be tutid of early potatoes, by which is moaut those wliich are in an inunature condition. Mashed potatoes labour under the disadvantage tliat they do not get sufliciently mixed with tlie saliva to secure tlieir full digestion. Wlien soaked with gravy and di-ipping from roasted meat potatoes sliould be avoided by dyspeptics, though they may agree well enough with those of strong digestive powers. The use of potatoes is a preventative against scurvy, if not an actual cure for it. Potatoes that have been exposed to the air and have become green are not wholesome, and new potatoes, i.e., unripe ones, are greatly answer- able for the prevalence of cholera and such like diseases during the siunmer months. Potato Wine —Wine of considerable quality may be made from frosted potatoes, if not so much frosted as to have become soft and waterish. The potatoes must be crushed or bruised; a wooden mallet answers the purpose. If a plank of wood is made hollow, in the manner of a shallow bowl, they may be bruised with a mallet or put into a cider-press. A Winchester bushel must have ten gallons of water, prepared by boiling it mixed with half a pound of hops and half a pound of commoa white ginger. This water, after having boiled for about half an hour, must be poured upon the bruised potatoes, into a tub or vessel suited to the quantity to be made. After standing in this mixed state for three days, yeast must be added to ferment the liquor. When the fer- mentation has subsided, the liquor must be drawn off as pure as possible into a cask, add- ing half a pound of raw sugar for every gallon. After it has remained in the cask for three months it will be ready for use. Potato Yeast.—Boil some good mealj potatoes until they are quite soft. Peel and weigh them, and while they are hot mash them till they are smooth. Mix them quickly with as much boiling water as will make the mash of the consistency of good beer yeast. Rub the puree through a sieve, and add for every poimd of potatoes either two ounces of treacle or an ounce of brown sugar or honey. Boil the mixture until it is as thick as batter, and stir into it whilst it is warm two large spoon- fuls of yeast for every pound of potatoes. Cover with a cloth, and keep in a warm place till it has done fermenting. In twenty-four hours it will be ready for use. It will be necessarj' to use twice as much of this yeast as of beer yeast to make bread. Sufficient, a pound of potatoes will make a quart of yeast. Potatoes (a la Creme).—Boil some potatoes of a firm kind in the usual way. Take a small, sharp, thin-bladed knife and cut them into thm slices. Put a pint of these into a ste^imn with a tea-spoonful of salt, an ounce of butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Pour a quarter of a pint of cream over the top, cover the saucepan closely, and shake it over the fire for eight or ten minutes. Place the potatoes on a hot dish, and be very careful not to break the