( 606 ) POR is put upon it, Sorvo with good brown gravy and applo sauce. Time, a log of pork weighing six pounds will require one hour's gentle boiling, and roasting for one hour and a half. Probable cost, lOid. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ton poi'sons. Pork, Leg of, Boiled—A log of pork which is to bo boiled should be previously salted. WTien purchasing it, choose a small compact log not too fat. If ah-oady salted, wash it before beginning to cook it. If not, put it into a perfectly clean dry earthen pan, rub it well in every part with common salt, and repeat this operation every day for ton days, turning the moat each time, so that the brine may reach every pai-t equally. When the pork is wanted, saw ofi' the shank-bone, wash it well, put it in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring the liquid slowly to a boU. Skim carefully, and simmer gently until the meat is done enough. If it is allowed to boil quickly the knuckle end will be sufficiently cooked before the heat has penetrated to the middle of the thick part of the leg. Carrots, turnips, parsnips, and pease pudding, are the usual accompaniments of boiled leg of pork. If liked, the vegetables can be boiled with the meat, but they must not be put in until the water boils. The appearance of the dish will be improved if the skin is scored into small squares or diamonds, and each alternate square taken out. Time, a leg of pork weighing six pounds wiU require two hours' gentle simimering. Probable cost, lO^d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Pork, Leg of. Boiled (another way).— Take a leg of pork, rub it over with salt, and put it, well covered with salt, in a vessel, wherein it must be left for ten days. At the end of that time boil it in soft water, and serve with green cabbage all round, and a peas pudding, made as follows:—Take a quart of dry peas, wash them, wrap them in a clean towel, and throw them into the same vessel as the pork. When the peas are done, strain them through a sieve, put in a large lump of butter, some salt, and two yolks of eggs, and poach the pudding, wrapped up in a clean towel, to make it of a good substance. Observe that the peas must be put in cold soft water for two hours before being boiled, otherwise they wiU never boil mellow. Pork, Leg of. Fresh, Roasted.—A fresh leg of pork ought not to be kept more than a day or two before being cooked. Score the skin at regtdar intervals round from the knuckle, or, if preferred, cut it into squares or diamonds, taking great care not to pierce the flesh. Rub the rind over with butter or sweet- oil to keep it from blistering; put it down at some distance from a clear fire, and baste constantly. Brown gravy and applo sauce, tomato sauce, and Robert sauce, are all suitable accompaniments to roast pork. Time, a joint weighing eight pounds will require three hours. Probable cost, lO^d. to Is. per pound. Sufficient, a moderate-sized leg of pork for eight or ten persons. Pork, Leg of. Roasted.—A leg of pork of eight pounds will require about thi-ee hours. Score the skin across in narrow strips—some score it in diamonds—alxjut a quarter of an inch apart. Stuli the knuckle with sage and L£a OF FOBE. onion minced fine, and a little grated bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. Do not put the meat too near the fire; rub a little sweet-oU on the skin with a paste- brush or a goose feather; this makes the crack- ling crisper and browner than basting it with dripping, and it will be a better colour than all the art of cookery can make it in any other way. And this is the best way to prevent the skin from blistering, which is principally oc- casioned by its being placed too near the fiire. Pork, Leg of Roast, To Carve.—In carving either the roast leg or loin of pork the knife must follow the direction of the lines scored by the cook before the meat was roasted, on the skin which forms the crackling. This skin is too crisp to be conveniently cut through. It usually happens that the lines scored on the roasted leg of pork are placed too far apart for single cuts. In order therefore to cut thin slices from the meat, raise up the crackling. The seasoning should be placed imder the skm. round the shankbone. Often, however, sage and onion are sent to table separate from the joint. Pork, Leg of, Stuflfed and Roasted.— ]\Iince finely three large onions which have been previously boiled or not, according to taste; mix with them haK a dozen chopped sage- leaves, four ounces of bread-crumbs, an ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and half an apple chopped small. Bind the forcemeat together with the yolk of an egg. Raise the skin round the knuckle of the leg of pork, fasten it securely, and brush the rind aU over vdth sweet-oU. Put it down at some distance from a clear fii-e, and baste liberally. Serve the meat on a hot dish, and send brown gravy and apple .ssiuce to table with it. If any gra\^ is put into the dish it should be poured round, but not upon the meat. The flavour of this joint will be im- proved if it is stuffed the day before it is roasted The Germans stuff a leg of pork with som apples only. Time, a joint weighing eight jjoimds will require three hours. Probable cost, 10|d. to Is. per poimd. Sufficient for a dozen persons. Pork, Loin of (i\ la Fran(^aiso).—Take a piece of the loin, neck, or spare-rib of pork;