RAB RAB ( 696 ) pound it quite smooth. Add to it a slico of stale crumb of broad which has boon soaked iu milk till soft and aftorwarda sfiueezcd dry. Moistou this paste gradually with the strained stock, and let it boil for a quarter of an liour. Add a snuill cupful of cream which has been mixed with a tea-spoonful of ground rice or arrowroot, lot it boil np once more, and servo. Some cooks add the yolk of an cgj^ boiled hard to the pounded mince, and stir this into the soup to enrich it. ^\Tien this is done the soup must not boil after the egg is added. Time, three to four hours. Probable cost, Is. per pint. Sufficient for three or four- persons. Rabbit, Spanish way of Cooking. —A stowpan or cartlienware pipkin is taken, having a tightly-fitting cover, and of sufficient size to hold a couple of rabbits when cut up into sniall pieces ; also four moderate-sized Spanish onions in thin slices. A layer of sliced onion is placed on the bottom of the pan; on it a layer of _ the pieces of rabbit previously sea- soned with salt, pepper, and whatever other seasoning may be desired. This is covered with a second layer of onion, then rabbit, and so on. alternately, until the whole of the rabbit is used up. A few thin slices of raw bacon or ham are put over the last layer of rabbit, and all the remaining pieces of onion are pLaced on the top. The cover is then put on, and the whole stewed at a moderate heat for two hours. A slack oven, a hot plate, or hot hearth, answers admirably. It is needless to say that, as no water may be added, if the pan is placed over the fire the meat is burned and spoiled. At the end of two hours let it be tui-ned out into a dish, and served up immediately, when it wiU Le found to be a tender, succulent, grav;v-teem- ing dish, far diifei'ent from the insipid, dry, stringy, boiled rabbit and onion sauce of the ordinary style. English onions answer very ■well; and should the gravy (of which a con- siderable quantity is px-oduced), requii-e to be slightly thickened, a tea-spoonful of flour should be added to the seasoning which is rubbed over the pieces of rabbit. Rabbit, Stewed.—Cut a plump young rabbit into pieces the size of an egg. Di^dde half a pound of streaky bacon into square pieces, and fty these with an ounce of butter till they turn yellow. Take them up, and put in their place the pieces of rabbit and two onions sliced, and fry these tUl they are lightly l)rowned. Take them up, mix an ounce of butter with the fat, and rub it over the fire with the back of a wooden spoon for two minutes. jMoisten the paste gradually with three-quarters of a. pint of stock or water, and add a bunch of savoury herbs, a little pepper and salt, the rabbit, the bacon, and the onions, and simmer all gently together in a closely- covered saucepan for twenty minutes. Take out the herbs, pile the pieces of rabbit on a dish, pour the sauce over thom, and serve very hot. If liked, a glassful of claret may be added to the sauce. It will be much improved, also, if a dozen mushrooms are boiled in the sauce for the last six or seven minutes. Failing these, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup may be stin'od into it. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five pertvonb. Rabbit Stewed Whole.—Skin, empty, and wash a mbbit, and soak it in lukewarm water for half an houi. ^jrain and dry it, and till it with a forcemeat prepared as follows:— Boil the liver for a quarter of an lioui-. Mince it finely, and mix with it three ounces of finely- shred beef suet, two ounces of grated bread- crumbs, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, half a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and a little milk. Sew the rabbit up securely, truss firmly for roasting, and lay three or four slices of fat bacon upon it. Bake in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Cut two ounces of bacon into dice, and fry these in an ounce of butter with a carrot and two onions till they arc lightly browned. Dredge a table-spoonful of flour over them, and add a pint of stock or water, a dessert-spoon- ful of vinegar, half a tea-spoonful of mixed mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Put the rabbit and bacon into this sauce, and let them simmer gently until quite tender. Lay the rabbit on a dish, and keep it hot. Rub the vegetables through a sieve, mLc the i)ulp again with the gravy, let it boil up, pour it over the rabbit, and serve very hot. Time to stew the rabbit, an hour and a haH. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Stuffed and Stewed (a Ger- ma.'i recipe).—Fill a rabbit with good veal force- meal', tie three or four rashers of fat bacon over it, truss it fii-mfy, put it down to a clear fire, and baste till it is lightly browned. Take it up, put it in a stewpan, pour the contents of the diipping-tin over it, add as much new milk as will cover it, and a little pepper and salt if required. Cover the saucepan closely, and let the rabbit simmer very gently until it is done enough. Put it on a hot dish, garnish with sliced lemon, pour a little of the sauce in which it was stewed over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one horn-. Probable cost of rabbii, 7d. to 9d. per j)Oimd. Sufficient for four or five persons. Rabbit, Turban of.—Skin, empty, and wash two or three jilump yoimg rabbits. Pass a- sharp knife down each side of the backbone, put the point underneath and raise the flesh in neat fillets. Cut oft' the legs, take out the bones, and divide the flesh in halves lengtliwisc. Lard all these fillets thickly and evenly with strips of fat bacon. Pick the rest of the meat from the bones, and make it into forcemeat by mincing it finely and mixing with it a third of its weight in fat and lean bacon, a few bread-crumbs, and a little pepper and salt. Bind the mi.xturc together with the yolks of one or two eggs. Make a case of pastry, such as is used for raised pies. To do this, put a poimd of flour into a bowl, make a hollow in the centre, and stir into this half a pint of boiling water in Avhich has been dis- solved four ounces of lard and a pinch of RiH.. Work this first with a spoon, and afterwards with the hand, to a smooth stiff pa.ste. Mould it into a cirnilar case, from two to three inclics liigh, brush it over with, yolk of egg, fill it with