file it rise again for a couple of hours till it is quite light. Grease some tias, three-parts fill them with the loaves, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size of the loaves. nice Bread (another way).—See Bread, Rice. Rice Bread (other ways).— Rice when made into bread is usually mixed with some other grain. The following modes in which it has been so employed with advantage are given by Webster and Parkes :—1.—The Americans make bread with it in this manner. The rice is thoroughly cleansed by pouring water upon it and stirring it, the water being changed oc- casionally, until all impurities are washed away. The water is then drawn off, and the rice, while yet damp, ia bruised in a mortar; it is then dried and passed through a hair sieve. The flour thus obtained is generally kneaded with a small quantity of Indian-corn meal, and is boiled until it has acquired a thickish consistency; sometimes boiled potatoes are added. The mass is fermented either with leaven or yeast, and the dough is then baked in pans. The bread thus prepared is reputed to be light, whole- some, and agreeable to the palate. 2.—Let a quarter of a pound of rice be boiled until it be (luite soft; leave it to drain on the back part of a sieve, and when cool, mix with it three-quar- ters of a pound of wheat-flour, a spoonful of yeast, and two ounces of salt. Let it stand for three hours to ferment, then knead it very thoroughly, and roll it in as much wheaten flour as will give to the exterior sufficient con- sistency to allow of its being conveniently deposited in the oven. After baking an hour and a quarter it wUl form a loaf of good white bread weighing one pound fourteen ounces. 3.— To one peck of wheat-flour add half a peck of rice-flour; let them be mixed and Imeaded with salt, yeast, and warm water, in the usual manner. Divide the mass, when fermented and duly risen, into eight loaves, and bake them. 4.—Boil a peck of rice till it becomes soft; let it stand all night in a pan; and it will be found ^eatly distended. Let a pecK of potatoes be boiled, skinned, and mashed to a pulp. Knead them while hot with the rice, and a peck of wheat-flour; then add a sufficient quantity of yeast and salt, and leave the dough to ferment; the mass may be divided into loaves, and baked in the usual manner. Rice, Buttered.—"Wash four ounces of rice, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of milk." Let it simmer gently until the grains are tender. Pour off the thick milk, and put in two ounces of butter, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, or any other flavouring. Stir the rice until the butter is melted and the rice is equally flavoured, turn it upon a dish, and serve very hot. Time, about one hour. Pro- bable cost, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Hice Cake.—The following is a very light nee cuke. Take a quarter of a pound of flour, six ounces of rice-flour, twelve ounces of sugar, twelve egcrs, and the rasiiiniis of two lemons; Koparate the wliites fi-om the yolks oi the eggs, whisk up the whites to a strong froth; then mix in the yolks, poimded sugar, and lemon raspings. "Wliisk this over a slow fire for about half an hour ; when it is quite light and thick take it off the fire, and whisk it till it is quite cold, then stir in the floui- and rice. Bake the cake in paper cases in a moderate heat; put four or five sheets of paper under them, and ice before baking. Bice Cakes^ Plain.—No l.—Rub half a pound of butter mto one pound of flour. Add one pound of groimd rice, a small pinch of salt, three heaped tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder, half a poimd of sugar, one pound of picked and dried currants, and two ounces of candied peel. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly mixed stir in four well-beaten eggs and a tea-cupful of milk. Bake the cake immediately in a well- heated oven. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Time, ac- cording to size. "Wlien a skewer can be pushed to the bottom in the centre of the cake, and be brought out clean and bright, the cake is done enough. No. 2.—Beat four ounces of butter to a cream. Add half a pound of sugar, three beaten eggs stirred in gradually, a quarter of a pound of picked and dried cuiTants, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, half a pound of ground rice, a quarter of a pound of flour. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, bake im- mediately. Probable cost. Is. 5d. No. 3.— Rub six ounces of butter into three-quarters of a pound of rice-flour. Add five ounces of sugar, two table-spoonfuls of currants, a tea- spoonful of candied-peel chopped very small, half a small tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in half a tea-cupful of lukewarm milk, and three eggs well whisked. Beat these ingredients thoroughly for a few minutes, and bake the cake immediately, in a well-heated oven. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Rice Cakes, Rich.—No. l.—Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream. Break ten eggs into a separate bowl, and whisk them thoroughly. Mix with them half a pound of powdered sugar flavoured with the rind of two lemons, half a pound of rice-flour, and the creamed butter. Turn 'the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. Probable cost, 28. 6d. No. 2.—Beat first separately, and afterwards together, the yolks and whites of twelve eggs. Add twelve ounces of ground rice, four ounces of flour, one pound of powdered sugar, and any flavouring that may be prefeiTcd. Beat the mixture thoroughly, and bake as before. Pro- bable cost, 2s. No. 3.—Beat four ounces of fresh butter to a cream. Add four ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, and gra- dually, four ounces of ground rice and the gi-ated rind of half a lemon.' Whisk the whites of two eggs to a firm froth. Add them to the other ingredients, beat the mixture rapidly for twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. If liked, the butter may bo omitted, and the cake will then be particularly suitable for an invalid. These ingredients will make a small cake. Probable cost. Is. Id. No. 4.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs thoroughly, and mix with them one pound and a quarter of powdered sugar. Jlix nine ounces of ground rice with nine ounces of di-ied floui-, add this in small iiiuiiititie.s at a