( 642 ) PHE PHE Balt-apoonful oi" gratod nutmeg, a pinch of cuyonuo, and a ualt-spoonful of pepper. Lot tliu mixture boil until tho macaroni is tondor, thou add a table-spoonful of grated Parmesan and an ounco of butter. Sinnner a quarter of an hour longer, shaking and tossing tlie sauce- pan to mix the nuicaroni thoroughly with tho cheese ; then serve. Time, three hours. Pro- bable cost. Is. 4d., exclusive of tho cold meat. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Boiled. — Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, and truss it tirmly, as if for boiling. Cover with buttered paper, wrap it in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and after it has once boiled up draw it to tlio side, and let it simmer as gently as possible until it is done enough. Tho more gently it is simmered the better the bird will look, and tho tenderer it will be. Put it on a hot dish, pour a small quantity of sauce over it, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Celery sauce, horse- radish sauce, oyster sauce, white sauce, soubise sauce, or even plain onion sauce, may all be served with boiled pheasant. Time to boil half an hour from the time of boiling, for a small young bird; three-quarters of an hour for a larger one; one hour or more for an old one. Probable cost of pheasants, about 3s. each when in full season. Sufficient for three or four persons. Pheasant, Boudins of (a la RicheUeu) —Pick the meat from a cold pheasant. Care^ fully remove the skin and sinews, and pound the flesh in a mortar to a smooth paste. Sup posing there to be twelve ounces of pheasant- meat, mix with it twelve ounces of pounded potatoes, or eight ounces of panada {see Pa- nada), and six ounces of fresh butter. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, pound them together, and season rather highly with salt, cayenne, and powdered mace. Bind the mixture together with the unbeaten yolks of five eggs added one at a time, the whites of two, two table-spoonfuls of white sauce, and, last of all, two table-spoonfuls of boiled onions chopped small. As it is very important that the preparation should be as light and spongy as possible, it is well to test a small quantity by making it up into a ball and poaching it in hot water, so that if it is not of the proper con- sistency, it may be made so before the whole is cooked. If not firm enough, more eggs should be added. If too firm, add a small quantity of water. Spread the forcemeat out on a dish, and make it up into small cutlets, about three inches long, two inches wide, and a quarter of an inch thick. Drop these carefully into verj' hot water, and poach them gently for a few minutes. The water should not be allowed to boU, or the boudins wrill bo spoilt. Take them up, drain well, let them get cold, then dip them into egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot butter until they are lightly browned. Serve in a circle on a hot dish, and send some good gravy to table in a tureen. The gravy may be made as follows :—Peel and slice four onions. Fry them in butter until they are lightly browned, dredge an ounce of flom- over them, and pour upon them half a pint of stock, or, failing this, a tea-spoonful of Liobig's ox- tract of moat dissolved in half a pint of boilinir water. Add a glassful of sherry or cW th? anS: pheasant broken uL smalt pfece and a little pepper and salt. Simmer the sauc*^ over a gentle tire for twenty nnnutos, sS through a sieve, and it is ready for use. Time lour or five minutes to simmer tho boudimj' lobe fried m hot fat until they are lightly browned. Probable cost of pheasants, 38. each when m full season. Sufficient, boudins made Irom tho flesh ot a moderate-sized pheasant, for SIX or eight persons. Pheasant, Braised, and Rump fc>teak.-l ick draw, and singe a pJiea^int^ and truss it as for boiling. I'ut into it a little forcemeat made with three ounces of finely- grated bread-crumbs, two ounces of fresh butter, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, fu V* pepper, and cayenne. Cover the breast with slices of fat bacon, and fasten them on securely with twine. Though this bacon is not served with the pheasant, it will be found excellent for breakfast if it is boiled two or three minutes before being used. Take two pounds of, good rump-steak, three-quarters of an inch thick. Lay two or three slices of fat bacon on this. Rub the inside of a good- sized saucepan with a clove of garlic. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in it, put in the beef, and roimd it a dozen chestnuts which have been skinned and scalded. Lay the pheasant upon it, breast uppermost, add a scraped carrot, three or four of the outer sticks of a head of celery cut into small pieces, four shallots, a good-sized lump of sugar, a small tea-spoonful of pepper, half a tea-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom- ketchup. Pour over these rather less than a pint of boiling stock or water, cover the sauce- pan closely, bring the contents to a boil, then draw the pan to the side, and let them simmer as gently as possible for quite three hours. Serve the beef and the pheasant on separate dishes, and as hot as possible, with a little of the gravy strained over the pheasant, and the rest in a tureen. The nuts should be used to garnish the beef. If an acid flavour is liked, the juice of half a lemon may be added to the gravy, and a little salt put in if neces- sary, but this will depend upon the quality of the bacon. Probable cost, about 8s., with the pheasant at 3s., and the rump-steak at 1b. 6d. per pound. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Pheasant, Broiled.—Pick, draw, and singe the pheasant, and divide it neatlj' into joints. Fry these in a little fat until they are equally and lightly browned all over. Drain them well, season with salt and cayenne, and dip them into egg and brcad-cnunbs. Broil over a clear fire, and servo on a hot dish, with brown sauce, mushroom sauce, or piquant sauce, as an accompaniment. The remains of a cold roast pheasant may be treated in this way. Time to broil, about ten minutes. Probable cost of pheasants, 38. each when in full season. Sufficient for tlu'oe or four persons. Pheasant Cutlets.—Take two young