PIK ( 569 ) PIK and the tape tied somewhat thick, to prevent his breaking "or falling ofl: from the spit. Let him be roasted very leisurely, and often basted ■with claret wine, and anchovies and butter mixed together, and also with what moisture falls from him into the pan. When you have roasted him sufficiently, you are to hold under him, when you unwind or cut the tape that ties him, such a dish as yoxi propose to cat him out of, and let him fall into it, with the sauce that is roasted in his beUy, and by this means the pike will be kept unbroken and complete. Then, to the sauce which was within, and also that sauce in the pan, you are to add a fit quantity of the best butter, and to squeeze the juice of three or four oranges. Lastly, you may either put it into the pike, -svith the oysters, two cloves of garlic, and take it whole out when the pike is cut off the spit; or to give the sauce a haut gout, let the dish into which you let the pike fall bo rubbed with it; the using or not using of this garlic is left to 'your discretion. This dish of meat," says honest Isaac to his companion, " is too good for any but anglers, or very- honest men; and I trust you will prove both, and, therefore, I have trusted you with this secret." Pike, Larded and Baked.—Clean and lard a moderate-sized pike as in the next re- cipe. Stuff it or not, and skewer it with its tail in its mouth. Butter a baking-dish, lay the fish in it, season with salt and cayenne, and pour in half a pint or more of flour and water. Lay little pieces of butter here and there upon the fish, and bake in a moderate oven. When it is half done strew highly seasoned bread-crumbs over it, baste occasionally, and bake until it is lightly browned. When it is done enough, lift it care- fully on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and send piquante, Dutch, or caper sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes for a moderate-sized fish. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Pike, Larded and Roasted. — Scale and cleanse a moderate-sized pike. Remove the gills, empty the fish, and lard it thickly over with strips of fresh bacon. Fill it with a good veal forcemeat, and sew the body up se- curely with soft cotton. Butter a paper thickly, cover it with sweet herbs and a little pepper and salt. Wrap the fish in this, lay it in a cradle-spit, and baste with butter. Serve on a hot dish, and send piquante or caper sauce to table in a tureen. If preferred, the pike may be roasted in this way without being larded. Time to roast, twenty-five to thirty- five minutes. Probable cost, imcertain. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Pike, Matelote Sauce for—Put a tea- spoonful of sugar into a stewpan, and place it over a quick fire. When it has dissolved, and is beginning to colour, put with it two ounces of fresh butter and a quarter of a hundred of small button-onions. Shako these over the fire until thoy are brown, then add a dessert-spoon- ful of flotir, a glass of claret, and, gradually, a pint of water or stock. Stir the sauce till it boila, then put with it a bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a lump of sugar. Simmer gently, and skim carefully until the sauce is thick and smooth, and the flavour is dra^vn out of the herbs; then stir into it a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy, haK a tea-spoonful of Liebig's Extract of Meat, and two or three drops o2 browning if the sauce is not suf- ficie-:tly coloured. A few oysters or mushrooms will improve this sauce. Time to simmer, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the wine,. 8d. Sufficient for a large pike. \ Pike, Potted. — Cleanse and scale the fish, cut ofl: the head and tail, split it open all the way down, and take out the bones. Wipe it dry, sprinkle bay salt and cayenne over the inside, and roU it tightly. Put it into a jar, and lay little pieces of butter here and there upon it. Lay a buttered paper over it in the oven, and bake in a moderate oven until it is done enough. Take it up, drain it, and when it is cold put it into a pot just large enough to contain it, and cover with clarified butter. Time to bake, according to the size; thirty to forty minutes for a moderate-sized fish; one hour or more for a lai"ge one. Pro- bable cost, uncertain. Pike, Sauces for.—Plain melted butter^ brown caper sauce, Dutch sauce, piquant sauce,, or anchovy sauce may all be served with pike. Or, if preferred, a sauce may be used prepared as foUows; —Mix a small tea-spoonful of flour with as much water as will make it into so. smooth paste. Stir this into two ounces of clari- fied butter. Add a quarter of a pint of milk or cream and a small anchovy which has been, freed from skin and bone and chopped small. Stir the sauce over the fire until it is on the point of boiling, then add a table-spoonful of Indian soy, and a little salt and cayenne if necessary. Just before sending the sauce to- table, stir into it a dessert-spoonJful of strained lemon-juice. Time, five minutes to boil the sauce. Probable cost, 6d., if made with milk. Sufficient for five or six persons. Pike, Sea.—"It is an opinion," says Mr. Donovan, "amongst the fishermen, that the shoals of mackerel arrive on the shores of this- country under escort of another kind of fish called the sea-pike, a most singiilar-looking, creature. This is sometimes brought to market,, and it is curious that its flavour very muck resembles that of the mackerel, but in my opinion it is superior. Its elongated, slender,, and pointed head more resembles the long bill of a snipe than the head of a fish. When the fish measures twenty-one inches from snout to tail, the head and bill together measure six inches, and the bill three inches and a half in length. This bill or head is very slender,, the upper jaw, as it may be called, being some- what homy. Both jaws are thickly planted with minutp teeth as sharp as needles. This biU or beak is supposed to be its weapon of protec- tion to the mackerel, but is too soft to act aa such. In its general appearance this fish ia like an eel, but is not so round, its sides being- somewhat flattened. The colour is a handsome bluish-grey on the back, with splendid silvery