SOL ( 893 ) SOI. sauce thoroughly between every addition, for the success of the sauce depends upon this being done, and with every eighth tea-spoonful put in a toa-spoonful of tai-ragon vinegar and a tea-spoonful of chilli vinegar. When the sauce is thick and smooth like cream, stir in a table-spoonful of dry mustard, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, and a table-spoonful of chopped ravigote, chervil, and tarragon. Taste the seasoning, add a little salt and cayenne, if required, and serve. Time to fry the fillets, about three minutes. Probable cost, one lai-ge sole. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Filleted (a I'ltaUenne).—Fillet a large fresh sole in the usual way, and divide each fillet into halves by cutting it across. Season the pieces with pepper and salt, and rub them over with cut lemon. Rub two ounces of butter into eight ounces of biscuit flour. Add a pinch of salt, and make a stiff paste by mixing with the flour the yolk of an egg which has been beaten up with the eighth of a pint of cold water. Roll this paste out very thin, and cut it into pieces of a size and shape that wiU entirely cover the filleted fish. Wrap each piece of fish in the paste, press the edges closely, and fry the fillets in hot fat over a slow fire till they are brightly browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve on a dish in a circle, with one fillet overlapping the other. Pour cold Tartar sauce {see Soles, Filleted, a la Tartare) into the centre, and serve. Time to fry the fillets, about half an hour. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Filleted and Marinaded, or Sole a la Horley. Divide the fiUets of a large sole into fingers, an inch wide. Put them into a dish, season with pepper and salt, and put with them a small finely-minced onion, a table-spoonful of picked and washed parsley, and a little oil and vinegar. Let the fish lie in this marinade for an hour, and turn it over occasionally, that it may be equally impreg- nated with the flavour. IMake a little frying- battcr as follows:—Put four ounces of flour into a bowl, and stir into it a pincli of salt and a giU of lukewarm water. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two table-spoonfuls of oil, and add the mixture to the flour, &c. The batter ought to be a little thicker than cream. A few minutes before the batter is wanted, whisk the whites of the eggs, and add them to it. Drain the fillets on a clean cloth, and dip each piece separately into the batter, with which it should be covered entirely, but not too thickly. Fry the fillets in boiling fat, and move them about tiU they are equally browned. Drain them from the fat, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin. Send maitre d'hotel, tomato, Dutch, shrimp, or white sauce to table in a tureen. Time to fry the fillets, about a quarter of an hour. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sole, Filleted and Rolled.—Take a large sole and half a jjint of freshly-boiled and picked shrimps. Pound the shrimps with a third of their bulk in fresh butter, two table- Bpoonfidfl of fine bread-crumbs, and a high seasoning of mace and cayenne. Fillet the sole, and divide the pounded shiimps into four portions. Spread a portion upon each fillet, r&ll it up from the tail to the head, and tie it with twine. Lay the rolls in a thickly-buttered baking-dish, sprinkle bread-crumbs thickly over them, pour clarified butter upon them, and add a wine-glassful of clear stock and half a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy. Bake the soles in a moderate oven. When done enough, take up the soles, mix a little lemon-juice with the sauce, and strain it over the fish. Time to bake, ten to twelve minutes. Probable cost, one large sole, Is. 6d. or more. Sufficient for four persons. Sole, Filleted and served with Mussels.—Fillet a large fresh sole, divide the fillets into halves, rub them with a freshly- cut lemon, and let them stand in a cool place for an hour. Wash and brush a quart of mussels; put them into a saucepan without any liquor, and put with them a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, half a blade of mace, two allspice, half a bay-leaf, and, if liked, a piece of garlic the size of a pea. Lay a clean cloth upon the fish, and shake the pan over the fire till the shells open. Turn them out, beard them, and take out the moss and a small crab which may be inside, and strain the liquor. Put the filleted soles into a saucepan with a slice of fresh butter, and add a small glassful of madeira and an equal quantity of the strained liquor. Let them boil up once, then draw the saucepan to the side, and simmer very gently until done enough. Put in the mussels and the remainder of the liquor; simmer the preparation for two minutes. Lay the soles on a dish, put the mussels upon them, and keep them hot till the sauce is ready. Let the sauce cool for half a minute, stir quickly into it the yolk of an egg beaten up with two table-spoon- fuls of thick cream, and when it is smooth pour it over the fish. Serve immediately. Time to simmer the soles, about ten minutes. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. 6d. to 2s. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Filleted, with White Sauce. —Fillet a large sole, and season the fillets with a little pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, grated lemon-i-ind, and finely-minced shallot. Put them into a saucepan, pour over them four ounces of clarified butter, and let them simmer ten minutes. Add the strained j uice of a lemon and a glass of light wine; simmer five minutes longer, and serve the fish with good white sauce poured over it. Time to simmer the fish, about a quarter of an hour. Probable cost, one large sole. Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Sole, Fillets of (S, I'Aurore).—Take up the fillets of four soles; skin them on both sides. _ Have ready forcemeat quenelles, made of whitings, with the spawn of lobsters put in, to make it look red. Spread this forcemeat over each fillet, then roll them in the same manner as the paupiettes {see Sole, Paupiettcs of Fillets of). Next skewer them with silver skewers, three to each skewer; dust a little pepper and salt over them. Season the force- meat rather high. Lay the skewered fillets in