SEE ( 849 ) SEE work into them three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and knead the dough till it is smooth. Eoll it out, cut it into rounds or squiires, prick it with a fork, and bake in a gentle oven.' Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Seed Buns.—Put four pounds of dried and sifted flour into a bowl, and mix with it a piuch of salt and one pound of Demerara sugar. Make a hollow in the centre, and pour into this a quarter of a pint of good yeast beaten up with a pint of lukewarm milk, and as much flour as will make a light batter. Cover the bowl, and leave it in a warm place for two hours. At the end of that time knead it well, and work into it a pound of butter dissolved till it will run, but not hot, and as much warm milk as will make a soft dough. Cover the bowl again, and let the dough rise for an hour, when it will be ready for making up into buns. It is a good plan to di\'ide it, and make one portion into plain buns, another into currant buns, and a third into seed buns. For seed buns, take a pound of the plain dough, work into it half an ounce of caraway-seed, and form it into little balls. Put these into buttered patty-pans, and let them rise before the fire for a few minutes. Brush them over with white of egg or with milk, and sprinkle a little powdered sugar over the top. Bake in a weU- heated oven. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Seed Cake, Family, made from Dough..—No. 1. Take a quartern of dough left from making bread. If procxired from the baker's, set it in a basin, covered with a cloth, before the fire to rise. I3eat half a pound of butter or drippiag to cream ; work this into the dough, and add three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, an ounce of caraway-seeds, and a well-beaton egg. Knead the dough well; put it into one large or two moderate-sized buttered baking-tins, let it stand before the fire to rise, and bake in a weU-heated oven. Time, about two hours for one cake. Probable cost, if made with dripping, about 4d. per pound. No. 2. Take a quartern of dough. Spread it out on a pastry-board, and slice half a pound of lard, butter, or dripping over it. Sprinkle on it a heaped tea-spoonful of baking powder, add eight ounces of moist sugar, two ounces of caraway-seeds, and two ounces of finely-shred candied peel. Ejiead the dough till the in- gredients are thoroughly blended. Set it before the fire to rise for a short time, put it into greased tins, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, one to two hours, ac- cording to the size of the cakes. No. 3. Take a quartern of dough. Spread it on a fioured pastry-board, slice half a pound of fresh butter upon it, and work this in, together with a tea-spoonful of siilt, half an ounce of caraway- seeds, half a pound of good moist sugar, and six eggs put in singly. When the ingre- dients are thoroughly blended, put the dough into two or more well-buttered tins, and place thorn before the fire for a short time. When the dough is light, put the cakes in a well-hcated oven, and bake until they are done enough. No. 4. Put two pounds of flour into a bowl, and mix with it half a tea-spoonful of salt, eight ounces of powdered sugar, two table- spoonftds of caraway-seeds, and a quarter of a pint of fresh yeast. Knead the dough tho- roughly, and work into it half a pound of butter which has been dissolved in half a pint of milk. Throw a cloth over the bowl, and set it in a warm place to rise. Pour it into a buttered mould, and bake in a well-heated oven. Spices may be added to these cakes, if hked. Time to bake, about one hour. Seed Cake, Irish {see Irish Seed Cake). Seed Cake, Rich.—Take a pound and a quarter of flour, well dried, one pound of butter, one pound of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, eight eggs, and two ounces of caraway-seeds, one grated nutmeg, and its weight in cinnamon. Beat, the butter to a cream, put in the sugar, beat the whites of the eggs and the yolks- separately, then mix them with the butter and sugar. Beat in the floui', spice, and seed,, a short time before placing it in the oven. Bake in a quick oven. Time, two hours ta bake. Seed Cake, Superior.—No. i. Beat half a pound oH butter to cream. Work into it half a pound oC powdered and sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, and, gradually, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs with the whites of four whisked till firm. Add three-quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour, one ounce of caraway-seeds, and half a grated nutmeg. Put the mixture into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Suf- ficient for a moderate-sized cake. No. 2. Beat half a pound of butter to cream. Shake half a pound of flour into it, and add a pinch of salt, six ounces of powdered sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of caraway-seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Whisk three eggs with a table-spoonful of brandy,, and with this work the mixture to a smooth, paste. Pour it into a well-buttered tin, and bake in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, one hour or more. No. 3. Rub six ounces of butter to cream; add six ounces of good moist sugar, three-quarters of a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and a small tea-spoonful of caraway- seeds. Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly, and add three weU-beaten eggs and as much milk as wiU make the mixture soft and smooth. Put it into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. No. 4. Beat three-quarters of a pound o£ butter to cream; add an equal weight of pow- dered and sifted sugar, and, very gi-adually,. eight eggs, the whites and yolks having been whisked separately. Dredge slowly in tlii-ee- quarters of a pound of dried flour, beat the- mixture well, and work into it ten ounces of mixed candied peel finely shred, two ounces of blanched sweet almonds chopped small, two- table-spoonfuls of brandy, and two tablo-spoon- fuls of rose-water. Line a baking-tin with biittcred paper, and three-parts fill it with the mixture. Smooth the surface with a knife, and