(1000 ) TUB TUB rich, and golatinouB. It is an oxponsive fish, and sold by size instead of wcif^ht. It will koop for a day or oven two if lightly salted. The thick part of the lins and the f^elatinous skin are the parts of the fish most relished liy epicm-os. Tho thick sUccs from the middle of the back aro the best parts. In preparing a turbot for dressing great care is necessary. First empty the lish, and cleanse the inside. Rub a littlo salt over the outside, as this will help to remove the slime, then wash the tui-bot in several waters. Dry it with a cloth, and rub it all over with a cut lemon to make it white._ On no accoimt cut off tho fins. Make an incision down the thickest part of tho middle of the back, that is the dark side of the lish, in order to keep the skin on the white side from cracking. Any unsightly red spots on the under side may be removed by rubbing them with salt and lemon-juice. A turbot is usually served the white side uppermost. Some cooks have an idea that the best slices are to be found on the dark side, and therefore serve it back upwards. When this is done the fish is usually garnished. Turbot is at the best from April to September. Moderate-sized fish are the best. Turbot (a la Bechamel). — This is a favourite method of dressing the remains of boiled turbot. Remove the flesh from the bones while it is still warm if possible, divide it into convenient-sized pieces, and take away all the skin. Put a pint of milk or cream, or equal parts of either milk and white stock or milk and cream, into a stewpan with a strip of thin lemon-rind, a finely-minced shallot, six peppercorns, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it boil for ten minutes, then strain and thicken it with a large table-spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little cream, or butter. Stir the sauce over a gentle fire for five minutes, put in the slices of fish, and when they are quite hot turn the whole preparation upon a hot dish. A few oysters may be added to the sauce if liked, and if milk only is used, the sauce may be made richer by adding the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream. If this is done, care must be taken not to let the sauce boil after the eggs are added. Garnish the dish with sliced lemon and parsley, or with potato croquettes or toasted sippets. Time, three or four minutes to heat the fish in the sauce. Sufficient, a pound of cold turbot and the third of a pint of sauce for two persons. Turbot (a la Creme).—Take the flesh from the remains of a boiled turbot, free it from bones and skin, and divide it into neat pieces, season with a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, pour on it the grated juice of a lemon, and let it lie for an hour. Simmer half a pint of new milk with a strip of lemon-rind and a bay-leaf till it is pleasantly flavoured. Strain it over the fish, and lot it heat gently. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix them smoothly with a table-spoonful of flour and half a pint of thick cream. Stir this carefully into tho sauce, let it got quite hot, but on no account allow it to boil. Servo immediately. Time, a few minutes to heat tho fish in the sauce. Sufficient, a pound of fish for one or two persons. Turbot (i\ la Creme Gratin6).—Make tho fish hot in some good cream sauce, according to the last recipe. Arrange it neatly in a dish m layers, first a little fish, then a little sauce, and lot sauce be the uppermost layer. Strew seasoned crumbs and grated parmesan lightly over tho whole, jmur over this two or three tablo-spoonfuls of very thick croam, and put tho dish iuto tho oven to get quite hot. Urown the surface with a salamander or red-hot fire shovel, and serve very hot. Time, altogether, half an hour or more. Turbot (a la Creme d'Anchois).—BoU a moderate-yized turbot in the usual way, and place it carefully on a hot dish without a napkin. Flavour a pint of rich melted butter with one or two tea-spoonfuls of the essence of ancho\-ies, and add the eighth of a pint of thick cream. Mix the sauce over the fire, and when it is nearly boiling pour it over the fish. Sprinkle a table-spoonful of chopped capers or gherkins upon the surface, garnish the dish with a border of new potatoes, and serve very hot. Time, a few minutes to heat the sauce. Suf- ficient, this quantity of sauce for a moderate- sized fish. Turbot and Lobster Sauce.—Choose a very white and fine-skinned turbot three- quarters of an hour before dinner, or an hour if the turbot is very large, put it into boiling water and salt with lemon sUces over it; start it very quick ; when it begins to boil, draw the pan on the side of the fire. If the turbot boils too fast, it will be wooUy. "^Tien you have ascertained with your knife that it is quite done, serve with green parsley on the broken places, and put round the dish some horse- radish scraped fine; serve the lobster sauce separately in a boat. Make an aperture in the back of the turbot, and it will be the sooner done. Turbot, Baked.—Empty, wash, and drj- a moderate-sized turbot. Rub the inside of the dish in which it is to be baked with butter, and sprinkle upon it a little pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and finely-chopped parsley. Place the turbot upon this, and sprinkle a littlo more seasoning on the upper part of the fish. Put two or throe ounces of butter broken in httle pieces here and there upon it, dredge it well with flour, and add two glii-^sfuls of light wme. and, if it is at hand, one or two tablc-spoonfnls of oyster-broth or mushroom-juice. Bake tho