( 1064 ; VEA VEA the veal steam gently till tender. Take up the veal, strain and skim tlio gravy, stir into it a cupful of sour cream and two table-spoonfuls of bruised cai)crs. lict it boil, and pour it over the meat. Jf liked, the kidneys may bo browned and steamed with the veal. Time to steam the veal, an hour and a half to two hours. Veal, Loin of, Stewed, Plain—Take the eluunp end of a moderate-sized loin of veal; put it into a stewpan with a slice of fresh butter, and turn it about until it is lightly and equally browned. Pour over it boiling stock or water to half its depth, and add two sliced carrots, two small onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let it simmer gently for an hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Turn it upon the other side, and simmer another houi-. Dish the joint. Skim the gravy, pour some of it over tifie veal, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Ham, bacon, or pickled pork should accompany this dish. Time, two hours. Probable cost, chump end of a loin of veal, lOd. per pound. Veal, Loin of, Stewed, Superior.— Take the chump end of a loin of veal weighing about seven pounds, and let the butcher bone it. Fill the cavity thus made with good veal force- meat, and bind the meat into a good form with tape. Put it into a stewpan with half a pound of bacon cut into slices, two carrots, two onions, each stuck with a clove, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few outer sticks of celery, half a tea- spoonful of peppercorns, a blade of mace, and half the thin rind of a lemon. Half a dozen mushrooms may be added if liked, and will be an improvement. Barely cover the ingredients with veal stock, and let all simmer gently till the veal is tender. Draw the saucepan on one side, and take out as much of the stock as will be needed for sauce. Thicken this with white thickening or with a little butter rolled in flour. Place the veal on a dish, garnish with the bacon, pour the sauce over, and serve. Time to simmer the veal, two hours. Probable cost, veal, lOd. per pound. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Veal, Loin of, Stuffed and Braised (to eat cold).—Take a loin of veal with two neck-bones. Bone it, and stuflE with good veal forcemeat. "Wrap the sides round the forcemeat, skewer the joint firmly, and bind with tape, keeping it as oblong as possible. Wrap it in a napkin, tie the ends securely, and tie the meat also across in two or three places to # keep it in shape. Place it on a bed of sliced vegetables in a braising-pan, cover with as much stock as will barely reach to the edge of the surface of the veal, close the stewpan, and boil and simmer the veal very gently for four hours. Take the stewpan from the fire, but do not take out the veal until the liquor is cool. Remove the napkin, tie the meat in a clean- one, put over it a dish with a heavy weight upon it, and let it remain vmtil the next day. Trim neatly, brush over with liquid glaze, and garnish with aspic jelly, parsley, &c. This dish wiU bo much improved if three or four trufflos finely minced, a little red tongue, and the veal kid- ney finely minced, be added to the forcemeat. Time to braise the veal, fouv hours. Veal, Marbled.—Cut into thin slices a dried tongue wliich hfis been skinned and boiled in tlie usual way. Pound these in a mortar with a little butter and a seasoning of pepper and pounded mace. Mince and pound separately an equal weight with the tongue of cold roast veal, and season thin with salt and cayenne. Spread a layer of the veal in the bottom of a potting-pan, put the tongue on it in large lumps, leaving a space between each lump, and fill up the empty spaces with veal. Press the meat closely into the jjan. I'our clarified butter over to the thickness of half an inch, and keep the preparation in a cool place till wanted. Veal, Minced.—Take the '•emains of cold dressed veal free from skin, bone, and fat. Mince finely, and put it aside. Put the brown skin, the hones, and trimmings into a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, a puich of grated nutmeg, and a piece of thin lemon-rind. Pour over these as much stock or water as will cover them, and let the gravy simmer till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain the sauce, and^ supposing there is a pound and a half of meat, stir into it a little more seasoning if needed, half a quarter of a pint of cream or milk, and a small piece of white thickening, or about an ounce of butter rubbed in flour. When the sauce is smooth and thick put in the minced veal, and let it simmer very gently indeed till it is quite hot, but it must not boil or it will be hard. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with toasted sippets. If brown gravy is preferred to white, the cream must be omitted, and the gra.vy must be thickened with brown thickening, or if this is not at hand flour and butter may be used, and a few drops of sugar browning be added. An onion with two cloves stuck into it should then be stewed with the gravy, and a glassful of port or claret may be added if liked. Fried rashers of bacon should accompany this dish. Time, an hour and a half to draw the gravy ; haK an hour to simmer the mince m the gravy. ' Veal, Minced, and Macaroni.—Soak half a pound of macaroni in water for an hour, then put it into salted water, and boil gently till tender. Whilst it is boiling cut about a poimd and a half of cold roast veal into thin slices free from fat, skin, and bone. Mince the meat finely with a quarter of its weight in ham (if this is to be had); season the mince with salt, white pepper, grated nutmeg, and gi-ated lemon-rind, and add a quarter of a ipound of bread-crumbs. Bind the mixture together with one or two eggs. Butter a mould, drain the macaroni, and wind it roimd and round the inside. Put the mince in the centre, place a dish on the top of the mould, and steam the preparation over boiling water. Turn it upon a dish, and serve with brown gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the veal and ham poxired round, but not upon it. Time to boil the macaroni, varying with the quantity; to steam the preparation, half an hour. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 8d. Sufliciont for four ^lorpons. Veal, Minced, and Macaroni (another way).—Soak and boil the nuicaroni as before^. Minco and flavour the veal, and mix with it