PER . ( 639 ) From the top. of one pillar to thn other is extended a cross-bar of considerable scantling, not under six inches square, and through the middle of this is a hole with a concave screw, which receives the convex screw that constitutes the press. The perpendicular convex screw is attached at its lower end to a pressing board, which slides up and down between the two pillars, and has had square pieces cut out of its ends to receive the pillars, which by this con- trivance keep it always in its place, while it follows the screw in its ascent or descent. The pressing board follows the screw because the latter is so attached that it can turn freely in the pressing board, but cannot be drawn out. The pressing board is made equally thick with the rectangular board which constitutes the basis of the whole press. The screw, near ■where it is inserted into the pressing board is made to swell into a bulb; and through this are two cross holes to admit an iron bar, for the purpose of acting as a lever in working the press. The whole is made of hard wood, firmly put together by dove-tails, and strengthened with iron cramps. The pressing board may be screwed down even until it meets the bottom board; or it may be screwed up until it arrives at the top cross-bar. It is obvious, from the construction of this press, that if a bag of apple-juice be submitted to its action, the juice will be forced out, but will run over its bottom board and go to waste. In order to prevent this, a tin tray is made use of. This tray is rectangular, its area is a little less than that of the pressing board; it is shallow, its rims being only about two inches in height. Proceeding from one side, correspond- ing with the front of the press, a pipe emerges, so that whatever juice is forced through the bag of pulp will trickle down the sides of the bag, will be received in the tray, and from this will flow thi'ough the pipe into a vessel placed beneath. The pipe is somewhat bent downward for the purpose of more freely delivering itself. It is to be observed that when a bag of pulp is to be pressed, it must be set standing on its end in the middle of the tray, and immediately under the screw above. The bag need not be tied round its mouth, but only folded over loosely; the pressing board wiU keep it suffi- ciently tight. The bag may be made of strong canvass or hair-cloth, strongly sewed with double thread or pack-thread. These are the chief articles of apparatus required for domestic cider-making. In crushing the apples, it will not answer to throw a number of them into the tub at once, and to commence pounding them. In this way vast labour would be expended in doing the busmess very badly. The proper mode is to throw m half a dozen first, and crush them well, which will bo done with three or four strokes of the pounder; then another half dozen may be thrown in and similarly treated, vvhen there is so much pulp in the tub as to embarrass the further crushing of the fruit, it must be transferred into any other wooden vessel. The apples being all reduced to a tolerably small pulp, the next part of the process is to express the juice. The pulp thrown into the canvas bag is to bo put under the press, and the juice forced out by a gradual and steadily- urged action of the screw. In this way the juice may be drawn out perfectly transparent; but if the screw be urged suddenly, or by starts, the juice will be muddy, and the quantity of lees will occasion some loss of cider. It will be found also that when the pressing board can be forced no tighter, by leaving it un- touched for a few minutes it will be easy to force it a little more, and by repeating this process a much greater product of juice may be obtained than if force enough had been applied at first to endanger ^^he press. Having procured the necessary quantity of juice, the next step is its fermentation. A very convenient fermenting apparatus is a cask which has no bung-hole, or has it well stopped up. This cask is set standing on either of its ends; a cock is fixed in one of the staves, about an inch above the bottom chimb; so that in drawing off the liquid the sediment cannot also run. In the centre of the top of the ciisk, that is, in the centre of its other end, a hole is to be bored, of such size as will admit a large bottle- cork. The cask set on end should be fiUed with apple-juice through the cork-hole at the top, and it njiay be left to ferment at the natural temperature of the air should it be not under 60° in the shade. If the air be lower than that degree, the cask must be placed near the fire. In some hours (many will elapse if the month be November, and especially if it be cold for the season) the fermentation commences, the head of yeast rises up through the cork-hole, is retained by the chimb, falls back into liquor for the most part, and runs back into the cask, leav- ing the true yeast on the top outside. This ar- rangement succeeds better in the beginning of (September; but if the season be much more advanced, it will be better not to fill up the cask entirely. In this way the yeast will not be thrown out of the liquor, in which, at this cool season, its presence is so necessary to continue the languid fermentation that alone can be expected when the quantity is small. If there were some hundred gallons in one body under fermentation, the case would be different, and it might be an object to remove some of the yeast, so as to restrain an inordinate action. In cider-making, any degree of fermentation that does more than generate a due quantity of carbonic acid to impregnate the liquid for the purpose of taste is injurious. It need not possess any intoxicating quality; an agreeable taste is the only quality to be expected from it; and this will be attained by fermenting until the excessive sweetness of the apple is removed, and is replaced by the sharpness of the carbonic acid, which just at that period vnR have been generated in sufficient quantity. The pleasing sourness of the malic acid will remain un- altered; and if the cider, when finished, comprises the three qualities of sweetness, sharpness, and acidity, without a predominance of any of them, the fermentation may be con- sidered to have been of the most successful kind. The criteria by which the liquor may be known to be sufficiently fermented are easily understood. In a large vessel not full a burn- ing candle may be let down ; if it bum there, the fermentation is over. As soon as the cide»