YEA YEA ( 1158 ) throe-parts fill them with the mixture, let them rise before the tire for half an hour, and bake iu a well-heated oven. If hked, this cake may be iced after it has been baked. For in- structions in icing see the remarks on icing a cake towards the close of the ai-ticle on Wed- ding Cake, Excellent. Time to bake the cakes, about an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. each. Yeast Cake, Excellent.—Eub one pound of butter into six pounds of flour, and add a tea-spoonful of salt. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, without touching the bottom of the bowl, and pour into this a little more than half a pint of good, fresh, sweet yeast, mixed with half a pint of lukewarm water. Stir into the yeast as much flour from the sides as will make a batter, sprinkle flour over the surface, and leave the mixture for an hour, or till the yeast has risen in bubbles through the covering of flour. Stir into the yeast four well- beaten eggs, add one pound of fine raw sugar, and knead the whole thoroughly with about half a pint of hot milk. Let this dough stand to rise till it is very light and the sui-face has cracked. Knead it again with three pounds of currants picked and dried, and half a pound of candied lemon and orange mixed; add also a little grated nutmeg. Put the cake-mixture into two large tins, well buttered, let it rise be- fore the fire for quarter of an hour, and bake the cakes in a moderately-heated oven. Time to bake the cakes, three hours. Sufficient for two large cakes. Probable cost, 28. lOd. each cake. Yeast Cakes (William Cobbett's recipe). —To make yeast cakes—Provide seven pounds of Indian com meal, three and a half pounds of rye flour, three ounces of hops, and one gallon of boiling water. Separate the hops by the hand, strew and boil them in the water for half an hour, then strain the Hquor into an earthen vessel, put in the rj'e flour while hot, stirring quickly as the fermentation commences. Next day, when it is working, put in the Indian meal, stirring it well. Before aU the meal is added, it will become a stiff dough. Knead it well, and roll it out as you woiild a pie-crust, to the thickness of half an inch. Cut it into cakes ^vith a tumbler-glass, or anything else that will sers'e the purpose; place these cakes on a board, and set them in the sun to dry. Turn them every day, sheltering from wet, until they become quite hard. Keep them in a l)ag or box perfectly free from damp. When you bake, take a couple of these yeast cakes, break them, and put them in hot water over night. Let the vessel containing them stand near the fire ; they will dissolve; use the liquid for setting your sponge (as it is called), just as you would the yeast of beer. White pea meal, or bailey flour, will do as well as Indian meal. Mr. Cobbett adds, that the very best bread he ever ate was lightened with these cakes. Yeast, Camp {see Camp Yeast). Yeast, Connecticut (an American recipe). ■—Put a handful of liops in a bag, boil in two quarts of water with five pared potatoes; whon done, sift the potatoes, put with them in 8 pan one table-spoonful of flour, half a cup- LL ful of sugar, half a cupful of salt, and pour on this the boiling hop-water. When sufficiently cool, add yeast enough to ferment it well, then put it in a jug, cork tight, and keep in a cool place. Yeast Dumpling (a German recipe).— Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to cream, add four or five eggs to it; when weU-mis!ed, pour in a cupful of milk and the same quantity of yeast, sugar, grated lemon-peel, and poimded cinnamon, with as much flour as will make it of a proper consistency. Make the dough into dumplings, and let them remain an hour in a warm place to rise, then boil them in boiling water. Serve with melted butter and sugar or a wine sauce. Yeast, Economical Preparation of. —Thicken two quarts of water with four ounces of fine flour, boil it for half an hour, then sweeten it with three ounces of brown sugar; when almost cold, pour it, with four spoonfuls of baker's yeast, into an earthen jug deep enough for the fermentation to go on vdthout running over. Place it for a day near the fire, then pour off the thin liquor from the top, shake the remainder, and close it up for use, first straining it through a sieve to pre- serve it sweet. Set it in a cool cellar, or hang it some depth in a well. Keep always some of this to make the next quantity of yeast that is wanted. Yeast, German.—This yeast in many distilleries forms an important by-p7-oduct of the manufactory, and is collected and sold under the name of dry yeast for the use of the private brewer and baker. "\Arhen this is done, the process adopted is nearly as follows:—Crushed rye is mashed with the proper quantity of barley malt, and the wort, when made, cooled to the proper temperature. For every hundred pounds of the crushed grain there are now added half a pound of carbonate of soda and six ounces of oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) diluted with much water, and the wort is then brought into fermentation by the addition of yeast. From the strongly fermenting liquid the yeast is skimmed off and strained through a hair sieve into cold water, through which it is allowed to settle. It is afterwai-ds washed with one or two waters, and finally pressed in cloth bags tiU it has the consistency of dough. It has a pleasant fruity smell, and in a cool place may be kept for two or three weeks. It then_ passes into a putrefying decomposition, acquires the odour of decaying cheese, and has now the property of changing sugar into lactic acid instead of into alcohol, as before. A hun- dred pounds of crushed grain-will yield six to eight pounds of the pressed yeast. It is made largely at Rotterdam, and is imported thence to thjfi country through HuU. Gei-man veast is ex- cellent when it can be procured fresh, but this 18 rather a difficulty. After being purchased it should be taken out of the paper as soon as pos- sible, and laid m a cool place tiU wanted. An ounce of German yeast will raise a quai-tem or halt a gallon, or three pounds and a half of flour. Yeast, German {see also German YeastJ.