.% SAU ( 835 ) SAU Sausage Toast (a breakfast dish).—l-ryor bake two ur thrtio saustiges. When douo enough, strip the skin from them, and spread the meat on a slice of brown bread toasted and buttered. Gnite a spoonful of gruytire or Cheshire cheese over the meat, and serve hot. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes to fry the sausages. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for one person. Sausages. — Recipes for the following s;ius;iges will be found under their respective headings : — Beef Oxford Bkef, Home-made Oxford, without Bologna Skins Bologna, with Oyster Onions Pork Forcemeat of Sau- Pork, Dressed SAGES Pork, for Eating Fowl cold Frankfort • Pork, without Game Skins Ham, German Poultry and Veal Jewish, or Chorissa Rabbit Liver Rabbit, Made from Liver, Mecklenburg Dressed Rabbit Lobster Sausages and Cab- Marrow bage Mecklenburg Spanish Mecklenburg Liver Veal Mutton Sausages are a convenient method of pre- serving many sorts of meat that would not keep well otherwise for any length of time. The principle of making all sausages is alike, and consists in simply chopping the particular kind of meat employed, and seasoning it with spices and herbs of various kinds, bread-crumbs and eggs, salt, or mustard, or any of these ingi-edionts, mixed in such proportions as are agreeable. Then the whole is enclosed in por- tions of the prepared intestines of a hog, sheep, or calf, very well washed and scraped till thoroughly clean. Amongst the herbs em- ployed are the foUowiag : shallot, onions, leek, sage, thyme, garlic, marjoram, and parsley. For some kinds of sausages, besides meat, anchovies, oysters, and red herring are added. The blood of various animals, as the ox, hog, goose, &c., are used in this way, mixed with oatmeal, crumbs of bread, and seasonings of various kinds. The Germans have acquired a high reputation for the manufacture of sausages, in which smoked meat is generally used. Sausages and Cabbage.—Cut off the outer leaves and the hard stalk from a fine- hearted savoy or cabbage, and carefully cleanse it from aU impurities. Slice it finely, as if it were to be pickled, rinse it well, and put it into a saucepan with as much boiling (unsalted) water as will barely cover it. Let it boil till quite tender, stirring occasionally to keep it from homing to the bottom of the saucepan. Add a little more water if necessary, but be spsiring in putting this in. When the cabbage is tender, there ought to be in the pan as much liquor only as will moisten the vegetable. Lay a pound or more of fresh sausages in the centre of the cooked cabbage, cover the saucepan closely to keep in the heat and vapour, and stew the sausage gently until done enough. Lift it out, lay it on a round of toast in a hot dish, strain the liquor in the pan over it and the toast, and serve the cabbage neatly piled on a separate dish. If there are any remains when the dish is taken from the table, they may be heated again in the same way, and sent to table a second time. Supposing that the cabbage only is left, it may be heated, put on a dish with poached eggs, accompanied by an equal number, of slices of toasted bacon laid upon it. Time to stew the sausages, thirty to forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four- per- sons. Sausages, Baked.—As sausages, and especially pork sausages, need to be thoroughly dressed to be wholesome, it is a good plan, when there is time, to bake instead of frying them. Put them in a dripping-tin in a single layer, placing a little fat in the dish with them, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. When they are brown upon one side, turn them upon the other; if they are freshly made they will not need to be pricked. They should be baked very gently. When done enough, lift them out, di'ain them, make brown sauce for them, and serve very hot. Time to bake, one hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient, one pound for three persons. Sausages, Boiled.—Put the sausages into boiling water, let them boil up once, then di-aw the saucepan to the side, and let the sausages simmer gently until done enough. Drain them, and serve upon toast. Time to boil the sausages, ten to fifteen minutes, according to size. Probable cost, Is. per pound. Sausages, Bologna. —These sausages are generally eaten undressed, and put into large skins. Ox-skins are the most suitable for the pui-pose. Real Bologna sausages can only be bought. To imitate them, take three pounds each of lean beef and lean pork; put the meat into hot water, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. Take it up, shred it finely, each kind separately, and mix with it a pound and a half of finely-shred beef suet. Mix the meats thoroughlj'-, season the mixture with fine pep- per, thyme, and ground mace, and pound it to a smooth paste. Fill the prepared skins with it, and in filling them put long thin strips of fat bacon in among the meat. Tie the skins in eight-inch lengths; put the sausages in brine for ten days, then smoke them in the usual way. Rub pepper over the outside, and hang them in a cool, dry place till wanted. They will need only to be cut into slices and arranged neatly on a napkin before being sent to table. Time to smoke the sausages, three or four months. Probable cost, Is. 4d. per pound. Sausages, Pried. — Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, and as soon as it is dissolved put in the sausages in a single layer. Dredge flour over them, and fry over a very gentle fire till they are browned, moving them about, that they may be equally coloured all over. Drain the fat from them by laying them on a hair sieve before the fire for a minute or two, and serve them on a toast, or round a mould of