( 760) BIC BIC until it befjins to turn yoUow. Mix with it twu ouncDH of dressod hiuu finuly slirod, and a quiulor of a pound of rico boilod a8 for curry. Stir it lightly ovor tho tire, and soason with cayonn(t and a apoonful of grated rarmeaau or Chi^ddar dieoso. Sorve hot, pilod liigli on a disli. Timu, tiftoen to twonty niinutos aftor tho rico is boilod. Trobahh* cost, 7(1. Sufliciont for four or five persons. Bice, Pork Black Puddings made with {"t'c Pork lUiU'k I'uddiiifrs, icL°. Bice, Portuguese, Sweet.—Wash and drain a quarter of a pound of rice, and boil it in a pint and a quarter of now milk until it is thoroughly tendor but dry and whole. When it is three-parts di-ossed, add a little more milk, if necessary, or in its place substitute a little cream; add also four ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Stir frequently whilst it is boiling, and especially when it begins to thicken, to keep it from burning. Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds and two or three bitter ones, put them in a moderate oven till they are browned through, and pound them to powder. Place the rice on a shallow dish, sprinkle a tea-spoonful of almond-powder, or a tea-si^oon- ful of powdered cinnamon, over the top, and serve the preparation cold; it will keep good for two or three days. This dish may be varied as follows :—When the rice is tender, take it from the fire, and let it cool four or five minutes, then stir in with it three beaten eggs and four table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Stir over the fire till it is on the point of boiling, then pour it out, and let it stand till cold. Put it in a glass dish, and sift almond-pow- der or cinnamon over it as before. Time to boil the rice, one hour and a half. Probable cost, 8d. or Is. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Bice, Potato Potato Rice). Bice, Poularde with {see Poularde with Rice). Bice, Preservation of.—"Rice may be kept a very long period in the rough—I believe a lifetime. After being cleaned, if it be prime rice, and well milled, it will keep a long time in this climate; only, when about to be used (if old), it requires more careful washing to get rid of the must which accumulates upon it. Some planters^—the writer among the number —prefer for table use rice a year old to the new. The grain is superior to anj^ other pro- visions in this respect. If a labourer in the gold diggings or elsewhere takes with him two days' or a week's provisions in rice, and his wallet happens to get wet, he has only to open it to the sun and air, and he will find it soon dries, and is not at all injured for his purpose. Rough rice may remain under water twenty- four hours without injury if dried soon after." Bice Pudding.— It is not generally known that the cheap broken rice is better for puddings than the more expensive article. One table-spoonful of this well washed, the usual (juantity of milk and sugar, and a piiu^h of pounded mace, with a little butter, will make iin excellent rice pudding. Bake very slowly. Bice Pudding Baked. —Wash six ounces of rice, and Ijoil it gently in a littl.- more milk than it will absorb. When it is tendor without being broken, pour it out, and mix with it a pin(;h of mdt, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, a tablo-spoonful of finely-shiod suet, or if preferred a slice of butter, and a little grated nutmeg, or any other flavouring. Let th» rice cool, then stir into it one; or two eggs, according to the richness required. it will bo very good without any. Bake the pudding in a moderately-heated oven, and serve with sifted sugar. Time to bake, one hour. l*ro. bable cost. lOd., if made with one egg. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Bice Pudding, Baked, Plain.—Put a small tea-cupful of rice into a dish, sprinkle a little sugar upon it, and add a little gi-uted lemon-rind, or any other flavouring. Pour over it three pints of cold milk, and add a piece of fresh butter the size of a three]jenny- piece. Put it in a very gentle oven, and bake until it is covered with a bright brown skin. A table-spoonful of currants may be added if liked. Time to bake, three hours (unless the oven is very gentle, the pudding will be dry and burnt). Probable cost, 8d. Sufiicient for five or six persons. Bice Pudding, Baked, Small.—Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in a little more than a pint of milk sweetened and flavoured with almonds. When it is soft and thick pour it out, and mix with it three well-beaten eggs. Butter some small cups thickly, and cover the^ inside with candied peel cut into very thin shreds. Half fill them with the rice, and put it in very gently, not to displace the peel. Bake the puddings in a moderate oven. When done enough turn them out, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin, and send cream, custard, or wine sauce to table with them. Time to bake, about forty minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for five or six persons. Or boil a table-spoonful of rice in a quarter of a pint of milk till tender, then mix with it a little sugar and flavouring, a pinch of salt, and a slice of butter. Peel, core, and slice a good-sized apple, and stew it to pulp with half a spoonful of water, a small piece of butter, and a little sugar which has been rubbed upon a lemon for a minute or two. Put the apple into a small buttered dish, mix an egg with the rice, and pour it over it. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, a quarter of an hour. Probable co.st, 4d. Siifficient for one person. Bice Pudding, Baked, Baron Brisse's.—Wash half a pound of nee, pu k out the discoloured grains, and swell it gently but thoroughly in as little milk as possiblt>. Turn it into a bowl, and when cool add the lightly-grated rind of a fresh lemon, a pinch of salt, four ounces of powdered sugiir, a slice ot butter, and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs Butter the inside of a copper cake-moidd, and sprinkle as many fincly-grate<l bread-crumbs over it as the butter will hold, shake off those which do not adhere, and brush a little butter lightly over those which do. MTiisk the whites > if the eggs to a firm froth, and at the last momt-nt