( 1058 ) VITA or if preferred dip them in egg and roll them in broad-crumbs, lay thom on u lark-spit, and put them down to a clear fire. Baste liberally till done enough. Take them up, and servo with good brown gravy or with muslu-oom sauce and sliced cucumber. Time to roust the olives, about thi-co-quartors of an hour. Veal Patties.—Make the patty-cases in the usual way {nee Patties, Preparation of, (ind Puff Paste Patties, or Small Vol-au-Vents). Bake them, and when they are done enough, have ready to fill them a savoury prepai-ation made according to any of the following recipes. No. 1. Mince, first separately and afterwards together, half a poxmd of lean veal and two ounces of ham. Add a table-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of grated parmesan, the rind of half a lemon gi-ated, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. Put the mince into a saucepan with as much strong veal stock that will jelly when cold as will moisten it. Stir over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour. Add two table-spoonfuls of thick cream and a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, and the mince will be ready for use. No 2. Mince half a pound of dressed lean veal free from skin and fat and half a dozen oysters separately. Take as much nicely-flavoured veal stock that will jelly when cold as will moisten the mince. Mix with it two table-spoonfuls of thick cream, the oyster liquor, and a quarter of a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind. Put the sauce with the mince into a saucepan, and let it get quite hot. Put in the oysters for half a minute, and serve. No. 3. Take a pound of dressed lean veal free from skin and gristle. Cut it into strips, and mince finely with a quarter of a poimd of lean ham. Put the bones and trimmings of the veal into a saucepan with a pint of water, a bunch of parsley, an inch of thin lemon-rind, half a dozen peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Simmer this gravy for an hour or more till it is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain it, let it get cold, and free it from fat. Put the minced veal into a small saucepan with as much gravy as will moisten it, and add three table-spoonfuls of cream and a small piece of butter roUed in flour. Stir the mince over a gentle fire till it is quite hot and smooth, when it will be ready for use. If preferred, the mince may be baked in the cases instead of being put into them after they are baked, but it is best to bake the pastry separately, as the mince hardens in baking. Veal Patties, Fried. — Mince half a pound of dressed lean veal and a quarter of a pound of ham. Season the mince with salt, cayenne, grated lemon-rind, and grated nut- meg, and mix with it an egg boiled hard and chopped small. Moisten with nicely-flavoured stock that forms a strong jelly when cold, and add a little cream. RoU some good pastry to the thickness of half-a-cro'«-n. Put little mounds of the mince upon this an inch distant from each other. Place a piece of pastry over all, and stamp the covered mounds out in patties with a round cutter. Jloisten the edges, and press the pastry together round the mince. \VTien wanted, drop the patties into hot fat and fry them till they are lightly browned. Drain them, and serve on a neatly- folded napkin garnished with parsley. If pre- ferred, the patties may be baked in a moderate oven instead of being fried. Time to fry tho patties, a quarter of an houi-. Veal Pie.—Any part of lean veal free from fat and bone may be used for a pie. The loin and the best end of the neck are excoUent for the purpose when tho bone and tho greater part of the fat are removed. Slices from the fillet are very good also. The knuckle, part of the leg, the breast, and the shoulder may also be advantageously used, but they should be partially stewed before being put into the pie, as otherwise they will not be tender. Veal pie may be made plain or rich according to choice. Ham or bacon, forcemeat-baUs, hard-boiled eggs, sweetbreads, oysters, mushi'ooms, truffles, &c., may all be introduced. If ham or bacon has been cured with saltpetre there is a danger that it will make the veal red, and so spoil the appearance of the pie. On this accoimt dressed ham or bacon is to be preferred, though it is not so savoury. Veal Pie, Good.—Take a pound and a half of veal cutlets a quarter of an inch thick and free from skin and bone, also half a poimd of thin ham. Season the meat with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, grated lemon-rind, and powdered mace, and let the quantity of salt used be regulated by the quality of the ham. Divide the meat into pieces an inch and a half square, put it in layers into a buttered pie-dish, and pour over it half a quartei^of a pint of cold stock or water. Intersperse amongst the pieces of veal the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs and four forcemeat balls, to- gether with four button mushrooms, or a truffle, if these can be had. The pie, however, will be very good without them. Line the edge of a dish with good pastry, cover with the same, ti-im with a sharp knife, and ornament the pie. Make a hole in the centre that the steam may escape, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Have ready some nicely-seasoned veal gravy to pour into the pie after it is baked. Lay paper over the pastrj' in the oven to keep it from browning too much. Time to bake the pie, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized pie. Veal Pie, Good (another way).—Cut a pound and a half of veal cutlet, free from skin and bone, into pieces an inch and a half square, and cut half a pound of thinly-sliced ham into pieces of the same size. Fill a buttered pie-dish with the veal and ham in alternate layers, and place the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs on the surface. Mince four button mushrooms, on* shallot, and a bunch of parsley. Frj' these in an ounce of butter forafew minutes, then pour upon the mixture hfdi a pint of stock or water, and add a small piece of brown thickening or a table- spoonful of flour mixed smoothly with a little ketchup. Simmer the grnxy, stirring well until it boils. Add a table-spoonful of lemon-jmce, and strain some of it upon tho veal. Bake the pie in a wcll-hcated oven. Pour a bttle good graw into it before serving. Time to bake the p'ie, an hour and a half tc two hours.