POT POT ( 626 ) as now tin is somotimcs poisonous. Having obtained this lid, cut the cold meat into noat jjlices, sprinkle over them a little popper and salt, two finoly-mincod onions, half a cupful of gravy—or failing this, water—and two or three lumps of butter or good beef di-ipping. Put on the tin lid, and pile upon it as many cold boiled potatoes mashed with milk as will iill the .space to the top of the dish. Bake in a well- heated oven. Send the pie to table in the dish in which it was baked, with a hot napkin pinned round. The top should be brightly browned. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost, 28. .■Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pie (another way).—Take half a ■dozen boiled potatoes, diy and floury, mash them smoothly with three ounces of butter, i;he beaten yolk of an egg, and a little pepper and salt. Cut a pound of cold roast beef into neat slices free from skin and gristle. If the meat is rather underdressed, so much the better. Spread a layer of the potato at the bottom of .a pie-dish, put the slices of meat upon it, season with pepper and salt, and pour over the meat a tea-cupful of gravy made by stew- ing the bones and trimmings, and a table- •spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Cover with potato, and ornament the top of the pie with a fork. Bake in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. Time to bake the pie, half an hour. Probable cost, about Is. 6d. Sufficient for three persons. Potato Pie (another way).—Butter a shallow pie-dish rather thickly. Line the ■edges with a good crust, and then fill the pie with mashed potatoes seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Lay over them some marrow, together with small lumps of butter, liard-boiled eggs, blanched almonds, sliced dates, sliced lemon and candied peel. Cover the dish with pastry, and bake the pie in a well-heated •oven for half an hour or more, according to the .size of the pie. Probable cost. Is. or Is. 6d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pie (another way).—Peel and :slice some potatoes thin, and put them into a pie-dish. Between each layer of potatoes place ;8ome sliced onion—to every pound of potatoes allow say three-quarters of an ounce of onion— .add pepper and salt, put in a little water, and ■cut about two ounces of dripping or suet into little bits; lay these on the top, cover the pie close with common paste, and let it bake for about an hour and a half. The taste of the pie will be improved by the addition of a few slices of bacon. Time, about one hour and a half to hake. Potato Pie, " Ten to One."—This pie is a great favourite in country places in the North of England. Line the edges of a deep pie-dish with good crust. Fill it either with beef steak or slices of mutton nicely seasoned, •and slices of raw potato the third of an inch thick, and allow eight or ten slices of potato to one piece of meat. Pour a little gravy or water over the whole, cover with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve very hot. The jpic must be gently baked, or the pastry will te burnt before the potatoes are sufficiently cooked. Time to bake, one liour and a half or more, according to the size of llie pie. PotatoPie,with Sausage-meat.—Line the edges of a pie-dish with good crust, and butter the inside rather thickly. Mash five or six mealy potatoes with a little pepper and salt, a well-bcaton egg, and as much milk as will make a tliick batter. Mix witli this an equal quantity of nicely-seasoned sausage-meat, and fill the pie with the mixture. Cover with a good crust, and bake in a well-heated oven. iSend good brown gravy to table with the pie. Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Probable cost, 2s. for a moderate-Bized pie. Sufficient for four or five persons. Potato Pot.—Take an earthen jar with a closely-fitting Hd, put into it beef or mutton, cut into convenient-sized pieces, till it is a quarter full. Season with salt and pepper. Cut one or two onions into thin slices—the number being regulated by taste, f^ay these over the meat, and fill the dish with peeled potatoes of uniform size. Sprinkle a little salt and flour over these, pour in a cupful of water or, better still, stock, put the lid on the jar, and bake in a moderate oven. When the potatoes are done enough, Hft them carefully out with a spoon so as not to break them. Place them round a dish, put the meat into the centre, pour the gravy over all, and serve very hot. Underdressed cold meat may be used for the dish, though, of course, fresh meat will be nicer. Time, according to the size and qualitj' of the potatoes. If more convenient, the jar can be closely covered, set in a saucepan of water, and stewed for about an hour after the water reaches the point of boiling. Plenty of time should be allowed, as the potatoes are better baked slowly. Probable cost of pota- toes, Id. or l|d. per pound. Sufficient, a pie with two pounds of potatoes for thi-ee or four persons. Potato Pudding. — Mash a pound of boiled potatoes, drj' and flourj', and make a batter by mixing with them an ounce of clari- fied butter, tliree weU-beaten eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of milk, together with a little salt and pepper. Butter a baking-dish rather thickly, pour half the batter into it, and lay upon this three-quarters of a pound of underdressed beef or mutton, cut into neat slices, and quite free from fat, skin, and gristle. Pour the rest of the batter over the meat, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. Serve very hot, and send good brown sauce to table in a tureen. Time to bake, one hour. Probable cost. Is. 3d. Suf- ficient for two or three persons. Potato Pudding (another way).—Take a quarter of a pound of freshly-boiled potatoes, dry and &ouTy. Beat them till quite smooth, then mix with them half a pound of butter melted, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and a quarter of a pound of picked and dried currants. When these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add six well-beaten eggs and a glass of wine, or a table-spoonful of brandy. Pour the mix- ture into a buttered dish or mould, and either bake or boil it. The baked pudding is the better of the two. Time, half an hour or more.