QUI ( 679 ) up in a place where it is likely to be felt un- pleasantly. Quince and Apple Marmalade,— Take a pint of quince juice, prepared as directed in a succeeding recipe {see Quince Juice). Put it into a preserving-pan, with one pound of nicely-flavoured apples, pared, cored, and quar- tered, and simmer gently until the apples are quite soft. Lift the pan from the fire, and stir in three-quarters of a pound of finely-sifted sugar: when this is dissolved, put the pan again upon the fire, and boil the marmalade quickly for twenty minutes, taking care to stir it well, or it will bum. Turn it while hot into glasses or jars, and cover in the usual way. Store in a cool diy place. Time to boil the apples, one hour. Quince Blancmange.—Pare two orthree pounds of quinces without coring them, and throw them into cold water as soon as they are done. Drain them, and put them into a sauce- pan, with as much cold water as will cover them, let them simmer gently until tender, and turn them into a bowl. The next day strain the juice through a jelly-bag, and put it, when clear, into a saucepan, and with each pint put one and a half ounces of isinglass or gelatine, and half a poimd of loaf sugar, or a little more, if that is not enough to puit the taste. Simmer all gently together until the isinglass is dis- solved, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Pour the blancmange out, and stir into it, very gradually, about a pint of thick sweet cream: continue to stir until it is almost cold. Pour it into a mould that has been soaked in cold water, and put it in a cool place, or upon ice, until set. Time, half an hour to boil the quince 'juice with the isinglass. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for eight or nine persons. Quince Cakes. — Wash the quinces without peeling, boil them in just enough water to barely cover them till they are quite soft, and then rub them through a coarse sieve. Mix a pound and a half of pounded sugar with each quart of juice, and make it as hot as pos- sible without boiling it. Spread it out upon shallow dishes, and drj' in a cool oven or before the fire. Cut the fruit into small shapes. Quince Cakes (another way).—Peel half a dozen quinces, remove the cores, and boil the fruit in a pint of the syrup of quinces, and the same quantity of sjTup of raspberries, until it becomes reduced to pulp ; then strain through a coarse sieve. To this pulp add three spoonfuls of loaf sugar, and boil it down till it is ready to candy. Make the pulp into cakes, and dry these on tin plates in a cool oven. Quince Cheese.—Boil the quinces, and rub them to a pulp, as in the last recipe. Weigh this pulp and also an equal weight of sugar. Boil the fruit till it is dry; pound the sugar, stir it, and keep stirring over a gentle fire until the jam is stiff and smooth, and so dry that it leaves the sides of the saucepan with a spoon. Spread it out on shallow dislxcs, or make little paper cases pour the fruit in to the depth of half an inch, and, if necessarj', dry in a cool oven until the fruit is quite stiff. If the cheese has been spread on dishes, cut it into fancy shapes, and store these in a tin box between sheets of writing paper. If paper cases are used they can bo taken off easily if they are dipped for a moment in cold water. Quince Cream.—Take some ripe quinces, roast them, remove the cores, and cut them into thin slices. Boil the quinces in a pint of cream, with ginger, then strain and flavour with loaf sugar. Quince Custard.—Pare the quinces, and simmer them gently till they are tender in as much water as will barely cover them. Pour off the juice, and strain it through a jelly-bag. Boil a pint of it with five oimces of loaf sugar, and mix it very gradually whilst hot with the yolks of ten well-beaten eggs. Pour the custard into a heated jug, put this into a sauce- pan of hot water, and stir over the fire until the custard begins to thicken. Pour it into glasses, and it is ready for serving. Sufficient for a pint and a half of custard. Quince Jelly.—Choose quinces that are ripe and yellow, but quite sound. Wash, but do not peel them, cut them into slices, and put them into a preserving pan. Shake them well down, barely cover them with water, and let them boil gently until they are soft, but they must not be allowed to remain so long as to deepen their colour. Turn them into a jelly-bag, and let the juice drain from them without pressure: filter it two or three times, if necessary, till it is clear and bright. Measure the juice, and boil it quickly for twenty minutes. Take it from the fire, and stir into it, until dissolved, twelve ounces of powdered lump sugar for each pint of juice. Boil it again, and carefully remove the scum ah it rises. Let it boil until it wiU jelly when a little is put upon a plate. Pour it at once into glasses or small moulds. The jelly ought to boil quickly, or the colour vv^ll not be good. The pulp left in the jelly-bag may be boiled with moist sugar for common use; half a pound of sugar will be sufficient for each pound of pulp. Time, twenty minutes to boil the juice by itself; a few minutes to boil it with the sugar, or till it jeUies. Quince Jelly (another way).—Take one quart of quince juice, and add to it one pound of loaf sugar ; boil until it will jelly. Boil it again with a pint of white wine in which an ounce of gum arable has been dissolved, and pour it into pots or glasses. When cold it will set to a solid jelly. Quince Jelly (another way).—Cut thirty- six quinces into small bits, with about two quarts of water; let them boil slowly till the fruit is quite in a mash; keep them covered close, and let about a third boil away, linn the liquor through a jelly-bag, and put to every pint a pound of fine white sugar; put into a preserving pan, and boil till thick. It should be boiled till its consistency is such, that when cold it may turn out of the mould to be used.