( 1079 ) VEN ■with lukewarm milk and' water, and then dry it perfectly -with a cloth. Venison (ii la Daubo).—Take about three pounds of moat from the nock, and cut it into neat pieces. Put the rest, bones and trimmings, into an earthen jar which has a closely-fitting lid. Throw in with these eight ounces of bacon cut up small, a finoly-mincod shallot, a pinch of powdered mace, a smaU lump of sugar, and a little salt and cayenne, and pour over all as much stock as will cover the bones, &c. Put the lid on the jar, and jjlace it in a sauce- pan of boiling water. Keep the water boiling round it for two hours. Season the slices of venison with pepper and salt, and fiy them in butter till they are brown. Strain the gravy, stir a glassful of port into it, and put it, with the moat, into a clean saucepan. Simmer aU gently together till the venison is done enough. Put the meat on a dish, pour the gravy over and round it, and serve very hot. Send red-currant jelly to table as an accompaniment. Time to simmer the meat in the gravy, a quarter of an hour. Probable cost of venison, very un- certain. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Venison and Hare Pie.—In making this pie be sure that both the venison and the hare are thoroughly well kept. Take the flesh in one piece fronl a neck of venison, and cut it to the length of the pie-dish; season with salt, cayenne, and poimded mace. Divide the hare into pieces not larger than an egg. Take out the bones, and fill the cavities with good veal forcemeat. Line the edges of a pie-dish with good pastry. Lay the venison in the centre, and an-ange the pieces of hare closely reund it. Put forcemeat in the dish to fill up the empty spaces, and lay two or three spoonfuls of jollied gTavy on the top. Place the cover on the pie, and ornament according to taste. Bake in a well-heated oven. When done enough, poiu- into it, through a pointed strainer, a little additional gmvy. This gravy may be made as follows:—Put the bones and trimmings of the hare and venison into a saucepan with a slice of lean ham, six or eight peppercorns, two cloves, a little salt, and as much stock or water as will cover the ingredients. Simmer the liquor till it is plea- santly flavoured and so strong that it will jelly when cold. Let it cool, clear it entirely from fat, and it will be ready for use. If pre- f on-ed, the pie may be made entirely of venison. Time to bake the pie, two hours. Probable cost, hare, from 3s. 6d.; venison, very uncertain. Venison, Beef Potted in Imitation of.—Put eight or ten pounds of lean beef into a deep dish, pour a pint of wine over it, and let it lie for two days, seasoning well with mace, pepper, salt, and a clove of garlic; then lay it in a closely-covered pot along with the wmo—add another glassful if there is not enough—and bake for three hours in a quick oven. When cold, pound the meat to a paste, and pot in the usual way. Venison, Beef to Imitate {sec. Beef to Imitate Venison). , Venison, Boiled.—In tho American himt- mg grounds, where venison is very plentiful, it is sometimes boiled like mutton, and served with mashed turnips and cauliflowers. This method of dressing it is, however, by no means to be recommended. Venison, Breast of. Stewed.—Cut up the back ribs or the breast of venison into small neat pieces. Flour these, and fry them in butter with three or four sliced onions and a small quantity of bacon cut into dice. When the meat is lightly browned, drain away part of the fat, and pour over the meat a cupful of good stock and a glassful of port or claret, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs, half a tea- spoonful of anchovy, and a little pepper and salt, n the flavour is not objected to, a clove of garlic may be added, or the saucepan may be rubbed once or twice with a freshly-cut clove. Shake the stewpan over a gentle fire tiU the venison is tender. Thicken the gxavy with a little brown thickening, and let it simmer till it has thrown up its grease. Put the meat on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, and pour it round the venison. Garnish with toasted sip- pets. A few stewed mushrooms wiU be a great improvement to this dish. When venison cannot be had, well-hung four-year-old mutton may be used instead. This stew may be serv'ed in a casserole of rice or potatoes. It is an excellent way of dressing venison which is lean and dry. Time to stew the venison, about two hours. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain, varying with the supply. Venison, Choosing of.—The lean of venison should be dark and finely-grained, the fat should be thick, firm, clear, and white. The greater quantity of fat there is the better will be the quality of the meat. Like mutton, venison should have attained a certain age before it is killed, or it wiU not have acquired its true flavour; still, it ought not to be old. The age of the venison may be known from tho cleft of the hoof, which is always left on : if this is smaU and smooth, the animal is young. Venison, Cold, Stewed.—Take the remains of cold dressed venison; cut the meat into neat slices, and put these aside. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, pour over them as much strong unseasoned stock, or, failing this, water, as will cover them, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt. Let them simmer till the gravy is good. Strain it, thicken with a small lump of brown thickening, and put it by the side of the fire to throw up its grease. Skim it, and add a spoonful of ketchup, a spoonful of rod-ciirrant jelly, and a glassful of claret. Put the shces of venison into the sauce, and let them get thoroughly hot without boiling. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the gravy. Put the meat on a dish, pour the gravj' over, and gar- nish VFith sliced lemon. The remains of cold dressed venison may be converted into an ex- cellent stew soup. Time to stew the bones, about two hours. Probable cost of venison, very uncertain. Venison CoUops. —Take any remains ot roast vemson, clear them of skin and vein, mmcc very finely, and mix them with a third as much of mmced bacon, a beaten egg or two.