WIN ( 1130 ) wm Wine, Blackberry.—To make an excel- lent strong blackberry wine, proceed us follows: Take forty-tivo quarts of ripe blackl)orrii)8 well picked and pressed, and mix them with ten pounds of good honey and twenty-six pounds of Btrong bright moist sugar. Boil with twelve gallons of soft water and the whites of twelve eggs well beaten, till the liquor is reduced to ten gallons, skinnning it till it is perfectly clear. Strain the liquor into a tub, and let it stand till the following day; then pour it clear of the lees and boil it again for thi-ee-quartors of an hoiu-, adding the lees, filtered twice, and two ounces of isinglass dissolved in a quart of water. Skim well, and put in two ounces of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of cloves, and two ounces of best ginger, all bruised and tied loosely in a piece of muslin. Put into your cooler the thin rinds of six Seville oranges, and a pint of lemon-juice; strain the liquor upon them, stir well, and when cool enough work it with a pint of fresh yeast stirred well into a gallon of the liquor. Cover close, and let it work for four or five days, removing the top scum and stirring twice daily; then strain, and filter it into the cask, put in the bung tightly, keep the cask well tilled up, and when it has ceased fer- menting, let a day elapse, and add two quarts of French brandy and an ounce and a half of isinglass dissolved in a little water and mixed with a gallon of the wine, ten minutes, an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and slit, and six ounces of sugar-candy broken small. Secure the bung, paste strong white paper or coarse linen over it, and place plenty of sand over all, wetted a little. Keep the wine in a cool cellar for two years, then bottle it, for it is certain to be fine, by means of the filterings, which are quite necessary to this as well as to all rasp- berry and elder wine. Seal the corks, and keep it in the bottles before using for two years. If allowed to lie for a longer time it wiU still improve, and will be found a beautiful wine. Wine Browning for Flavouring and Colouring Gravies.—Dissolve an ounce of fresh butter in a small saucepan, and Btir into it a quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar. As soon as it begins to colour draw it to the side, and stir into it very gradually a pint of good port. Pour it into a fresh saucepan, and put with it six cloves, twelve peppercorns, three minced shallots, one blade of mace, one inch of stick cinnamon, the thin rind of a lemon, a wine-glassful of mush- room ketchup, and a little salt. Stir the mix- ture over a gentle fire for ten minutes, strain it into a basin, let it get cold, skim it, and bottle for use. Time, ten minutes to simmer the sauce. SufiBcient, a few drops will pleasantly flavour and colour half a pint of gravy. Wine Cakes (a Danish recipe).—Take three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a poimd of fresh butter, half a pound of sugar, and a gill of white wine; mix these ingredients with the yolks of two eggs, knead all well, and roll it out. Cut with a glass into small cakes; brush these over with white of egg, strew them with sugar-almonds or poimded cinnamon, and bake of a light colour. Wine Caudel.—Beat with a whijik the white of one egg and the yolks of eiglit. Stir into it a bottle of white wine, a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, iind half a pound of lump sugar. Set the mixture on the fire, and keep stirring it. Itemovo it as soon as it boils. Pour the caudel into a bowl or Binull gbissea. It sliould be eaten with sweet biscuit. Wine, Cherry (a French recipe).—Bruise together fifteen pounds of cherries not quite ripe, and two of currants; add two-thirds of the cherry kernels. Put tlie whole in a small cask with a quarter of a pound of sugar to (jach quart of juice. Let the cask stand in sand, and cover the bung tightly while it is working, which will occupy nearly three weeks. The cask should be of the size just to hold the juice, or the latter must be made up in the above proportions to the size of the cask, as it is necessary it should be full. Carry on the fer- mentation in the usual manner as in grape or gooseberry wine. When the fermentation is over, bung up the cask, and in about two months the wine will be fit to be drawn off and bottled. Wine, Cherry, Red.—Take some ripe red cherries, press them, breaking the stones amongst the fruit, tiU you have obtained ten gallons of pme juice. Add twenty-four pounds of strong bright moist sugar, stir well, and let the liquor stand three days covered up, stirring twice every day. Press the fruit in a horse-hair bag, and add the result to the juice; then mix well, and strain into a sweet cask, adding five pints of French brandy, the rinds of six lemons pared very thin, and an ounce of the best isin- glass dissolved in a little water. Secure the bung tightly, and let the wine stand for six months in a cool cellar; then rack it off, filter the lees perfectly fine, and put all into the same cask again with three ounces of sugar-candy broken in large pieces. Fasten the bung as before, keep the wine eighteen months, and then bottle it. This excellent wine deserves keeping till it is very old. A rich light cherry wine may be made as follows :—Take all kinds of ripe cherries, and bruise them in a tub till you have extracted eight gallons of juice; add six- teen pounds of good moist sugar, and set the liquor aside for three days covered closely up. Put two gallons of soft water upon the fruit, stir well for twenty minutes, and infuse for the same length of time. Then pare the rinds off four Seville oranges and three lemons—pare them very thin—stone and shred four pounds of Smyrna raisins, put them into a sweet ten-gallon cask with the juice of the oranges and lemons strained, and six ounces of sugar-candy. Slix the liquors in the two vessels, and stram well; then filter thi'ough a flannel bag, and fill the cask; leave the bung out four or five days; add a pint and a half of brandy and an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a Httle Hght wuie, and stop up the cask safely for eighteen months. Then bottle the wine, seal the corks, and m six or eight months it will be fit for use. This wine will remain good for three years, not longer. Wine, Cherry (another way).—Pick Mo- rello chorri(>s, not over-ripe, from thoir stalks, mash them in a mortar, and press to detach the