woo ( 1147 ) would destroy their flavour. A sauce prepared as follows may, if preferred, be sent to table with the birds. Put a tea-cupful of veal stock into a saucepan with a small onion, half an inch of thin lemon-rind, and tive or six leaves of basil. Lot the gravy simmer for a few minutes, then strain it. Put ■svith it the juice of a Seville orange or of a lemon, a glassful of claret, and a little salt and cayenne. Make it hot, and serve immediately. "Woodcock, Gravy for (another way). —See Orange Gravy for Teal, Widgeon, Snipes, Woodcocks, (fee. Woodcock, Marinaded {see Grouse or Woodcock, Marinaded). Woodcock Pie (to be eaten cold).—Line the edges of a dish with good puff-paste. Put a slice of lean veal well seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace at the bottom, and on this place a slice of thin lean ham. Pluck four woodcocks carefully, so as not to injure the ten- dor flesh. Do not open them, but season with pepper, salt, and mace, and cover them with layers of bacon. Pack them closely into the dish, and fill up the empty spaces with hard- boiled plovers' or hens' eggs. Pour over them a pint of strong beef gravy, so strong that it will jelly when cold, and cover the dish with pastry. Brush it over with egg, ornament it, and place in the centre two or three of the feet nicelj'' cleaned. Bake the pie in a well-heated oven, until the pastry is done enough. A woodcock pie is considered a rare delicacy, though it is rather an expensive one. Time to bake the pie, an hour or more. Probable cost, uncertain, woodcocks being seldom for s iJe. Woodcock, Potted.—Take any number of fresh woodcocks. Pluck them carefully, and cut o£E their legs and wings. Split the birds in halves, and lay them on a dish. Take away the gizzards with the point of a knife, and with this exception, leave the inside or trail undisturbed. Line the inside of an ordinary potting-pan with thin slices of fat bacon. Fill it with the woodcocks placed neatly and closely in layers upon the bacon, and season each layer with salt and black pepper. When the pan is full, pour as much clarified butter over the woodcocks as will cover them, and cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water. Make a hole in the top of the lid, and bake the woodcocks in a moderate oven. They must not be eaten tiU they are quite cold. When a skewer can be pushed easily to the bottom of the pan, the woodcocks are sufficiently baked. Woodcock, Potted (another way).—Pick and clean the birds nicely, but do not draw out the trail; fix the bills with small skewers to the thighs, and the legs on the breasts ; season them highly with mace, pepper, and salt, and put them into a deep pot with fresh butter to bake in a moderate oven. When done enough, take them out to drain on a sieve, and when cold, place them in pots, and cover them com- pletely with clarified butter. Tie them securely from the air with bladder, and set them in a dry place. Woodcock, Potted (another way).— Rub the woodcocks very well with seasoning. then surround each with a coating of butter, and then with a buttered paper, over which put a paste of flour and water. Lay them upon tins, and bake them. Do not take ofl: the crust and' paper till the woodcocks are cold. Put one in each pot, and cover it with clarified butter. The woodcocks must not be drawn. Woodcock Pudding—Pluck a wood- cock very carefully, so as not to injure the tender flesh, and, without opening it, truss it for roasting. Line a pudding-basin with pastry. Put into it a slice of tender rump steak seasoned with pepper and salt only, put in the woodcock, and place another steak over it. Pour over the meat a quarter of a pint of strong beef gravy, cover the basin with pastry, tie it rather loosely in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling till done enough. Take it up, let it stand a few minutes, turn it upon a dish, and serve. Time to boil the pudding two hours and a half. Probable cost, woodcocks, seldom bought. Sufficient for four or five persons. Woodcock Pur6e (for patties, crou- stades, &c.).—Take the remains of dressed woodcock. Pick the flesh from the bones, and put the skin, bones, and trimmings into a saucepan, pour over them a little stock or water, and add a shallot, a small piece of celery, a sprig of thjTne, and three or four pepper- corns. Let the gravy simmer gently till it is strong and good. Mince the flesh flnely, and pound it in a mortar with a spoonful of stock and a little piece of butter. When reduced to a pulp, rub it through a hair sieve. Strain the stock, free it entirely from fat, and boil till it is considerably reduced. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and mix with it double the quantity of white sauce. If this is not at hand, a quarter of a pint of cream and a small spoonful of flour will answer the same purpose. Put the pulp into the sauce, stir it over the fire till it is hot, and it will be ready for use. Time, an hour and a half or more to simmer the bones. Probable cost, un- certain, woodcocks being seldom bought. Woodcock Raised Pie, Cold.—Make some good veal forcemeat. Bone four wood- cocks. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a shallot, a small onion, and a sprig of thyme, and cover them with stock. Let them simmer till the gravy is strong and good. Remove the gizzard from the trail, then pound it, and mix it with the forcemeat. Place the woodcocks, skin downwards, open upon a board, spread over them first a layer of force- meat, then two or three sliced truffles, and another layer of forcemeat. Fold the skin over, and restore the bird to something of its original shape. Line a pie-mould with pastry {see Raised Pies). Put a layer of forcemeat at the bottom, place two woodcocks on this, cover them with a few slices of truflPlc and a thin layer of forcemeat, put in the other two wood- cocks with a little more truffle and another layer of forcemeat, and place some thin slices of fat bacon over all. Cover the pie, and finish m the usual way. Bake in a moderate oven. Half an hour after it has been taken out of the oven, pour into it a little of the gravy from the