( 783 ) BYE BUS Bussian Tea.—Take a quart of milk, and Bet it on the tire. Whenever it boils throw in a large tea-spoonful of the best tea ; let it boil some minutes, strain, add sugar to taste, set it again on the fire, and when it boils add a liaison of eggs. This is a highly-approved remedy for a cold. Bussian Zakouski.—"What is in Russia called zakouski," says M. Dubois, in his able " Cosmopolitan Cookery," is nothing but those cold hors d'wuvre which the Russians are ac- customed to take before sitting down to dinner. These dishes are generally composed of sandwiches {canapes) prepared with herrings, smoked salmon, ancho^des, caviare, eggs boiled hard and chopped. But besides these canapes, commonly some soused or pickled fish is served, or craj'fish tails, little tartlets, pickles, ogursis, smoked breast of goose cut into thin slices. "AU these dainties are served on a little table, where also several kinds of liqueurs and little glasses are kept ready; the liqueurs generally being Dantzig brandy, arrack, kiim- mel, and cognac. The zakouskis are partaken of but a few minutes previous to taking dinner, but without sitting down. In the Petersburg hotels the zakouski table is a fixture." Buthven Cake.—Heat three pints of milk, and stir into this, until dissolved, eight ounces of fresh butter. Let the liquor cool, then mix with it a quarter of a stone of flour, six ounces of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, the thin rind of two lemons finely minced, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, a pound of picked and dried currants, six well-beaten eggs, and three large spoonfuls of fresh yeast. Knead the mixture thoroughly to a smooth dough. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. It will take about three hours. Put the dough into buttered tins, and bake these in a well-heated oven. Time to bake, an hour and a half. Probable cost. Is. 7d. per cake. Sufficient for two good-sized cakes. Bye.—This species of grain is much more hardy but incalculably less valuable in every respect than wheat. It has been cultivated from time immemorial, and is supposed to be a native of the Caspian Caucasian desert. In Britain it is very little used as an article of food compared with wheat and oats, though in the north of Europe and in Flanders it forms a principal article of human subsistence, but generally mixed with wheat, and sometimes also with barley. The cultivation of rye does not extend so far north as that of barley, but it grows in regions too cold for wheat, and on soils too poor and sandy for any other grain. Its ripening can also be more confidently depended on in cold regions than that of any other grain. But rye, it should be observed, succeeds best, and is most productive, in a climate where wheat ripens. It delights in sandy soil. rj^y® Indian Meal, Bread of.— ' The proportions of rye and corn-meal used," says an American writer, "may be varied according to the taste. If the largest propor- tion of rye is used, make the dough stiff; if the largest proportion of com-meal, make the dough softer. The greater the proportion of cora-meal, the longer the bread requires baking. The best way to mix the dough is to put the corn-meal into a glazed earthen pan, sprinkle salt over it, pour on boUing water, work it till thoroughly wet, and when about milk-warm add the rye-flour with the yeast, and as much more warm, but not hot, water as is required. Work the dough until stiff, but not so stiff as flour dough. Put it then into a deep greased pan, put your hand in warm water, and pat down the top, set it to rise in a warm place by the stove in winter, but in the sun in summer. When it begins to crack on the top, which will be in an hour or an hour and a haK, put in a weU-heated oven. To make the bread two- thirds of corn-meal, take four quarts of sifted corn-meal, sprinkle a table-spoonful of salt over it, and pour over it two quarts of boiling water, as directed above; when lukewarm add two quarts of rye-meal, half a pint of lively yeast mixed in a pint of warm water ; add more water if necessary. Bake two or three hours. This makes a loaf weighing seven or eight pounds." Bye as a Substitute for Coffee.— " Rye," says an old collection of recipes, " will be found a wholesome and economical substitute for coffee. It must first be well cleaned, and boQed till it becomes soft, care being taken that it does not burst, and then put to dry in the sun or in an oven, and afterwards birmt and ground like coffee. To use it, take as much water as it is wished to have cups of coffee, and boil and strain it, adding a third of real coffee ; and the whole will resemble pure coffee from the Indies, and not require so much sugar as the common sort." Bye Batter Cakes.—Mix as much luke- warm milk with a pint of rye-meal as will make a thin batter. Beat this well, add a little salt and a quarter of a pint of home-made yeast. Let the dough rise, then bake the cakes on a griddle. Or take from the risen dough made for rye bread as much as will make a small loaf. Work into this a quarter of a pound of good dripping or butter, make the dough into a flat cake an inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. Time to bake, twenty minutes or more. Bye Bread.—Late in the evening, pour a quart of warm water into a large bowl, and stir into this as much flour as will make a smooth batter. Cover the bowl with a cloth, set it in a warm place, and let the sponge rise. In the morning, put into another bowl three pounds and a half of rye-flour. Scoop a hoUow in the centre, pour in the sponge, add a spoonful of salt and a small piece of saleratus dissolved in a spoonful of warm water, and knead the dough thoroughly till it no longer sticks to the bowl and the hands. In kneading it, add a little more warm water if necessary. Cover the bowl, and let the dough rise for three hours, or till it is light; make it up into loaves, and bake these in a quick oven. Time to bake, three quarters of an hour to one hour, according to the size of the loaves. Bye Bread (another way).—"Rye," says Miss Acton, in her "English Bread Book,'*