1169 APPENDIX. make their dishes "by guess," their method is not one which is to be imitated, because it is not to be relied upon. Preciseness in apportioning the ingredients to be used is indispensable to the cook who would be always successful, and therefore there is scarcely a more important kitchen utensil than a set of scales and weights. The weights should mnge from I oz. to 7 lbs. They should be put away as soon as they ai-e used, as the small ones especially are veiy easily lost, and they should be carefully kept in regular order. When anything of a gi'easy nature has to be weighed, it should be put upon a piece of paper, otherwise it wiU spoil the scale. Probable cost, £1. ^^ rri. Sieves.—Sieves of different kinds are very essential kitchen utensils. Ihere are hair sieves and wire sieves ; the latter are the stronger, and more durable, the former tlie finer of the two. All purees ought to be rubbed patiently through a sieve, and various saiices are much improved by being passed either through a sieve or a tamis. Wii-e sieves are intended for materials which could not be made to pass through a hair sieve. Probable cost, hair sieve, from Is.; brass-wire sieves, 4s. Skewers.—A set of skewers can be procured at a very trilling cost. Those who have exj^erienced the inconvenience of being without these insignificant but useful little articles, vnW take care to keep a supply on hand. Spice Boxes.—Spice boxes are divided into compartments in which the different kinds of spices can be kept. The nutmegs are generally put in the centre, in a box which forms the grater. The assistance which it is to the cook to have ingredients of this kind together, yet separate, and close at hand when wanted, can only be understood by those who have known the hindrance which is caused by a different arrangement. Probable cost, 3s., 4s., and 4s. 6d. Spit,—^The spit is simply the bar from which the joint is suspended when roast- ing. It should be kept bright and clean, and should be carefully wiped before being used. The meat should be well balanced upon it, as otherwise it will not turn steadily. When poultry or boned joints have to be roasted, a cradle spit is to be preferred to the ordinary spit, as the latter is sure to occasion the escape of some of the juices by the necessary perforation of the joint. In the cradle spit the meat instead of being pierced is held in a sort of cradle. Steak Tongs.—Steak tongs are intended to turn steaks or chops when they ai-e being broiled or fried, without piercing the meat in any part, as this causes the escape of the juices. When steak tongs are not at hand, the cook should be particu- lai'ly careful in turning the steak to injure it as little as possible. She should on no account stick a fork into the lean portion, as this would inevitably make the meat dry and flavourless. Probable cost, 2s. per pair. Stewpans.—A stewpan differs from a saucepan in this, that it has a flat lid, with a handle, which fits very closely into the pan, and thus prevents the escape of the steam. Stewpans are made, like saucepans, of different materials, and in various sizes. They vary in price according to their quality. They are generally made with straight sides. (See Saucepans.) Stock Pot.—Stock pots are made of tinned copper, tinned iron, cast-iron, and earthenware. The two fii'st are the best, because they are the most easily cleaned. Tinned iron stock pots answer their purpose just as well as copper ones, and are much less expensive. Some stock pots are fitted with a tap, by means of -^ich a little clear liquid can be drawn off without disturbing either the sediment at the bottom or the scum which may be at the top. Stock pots should be washed and scoured with fine sand, and rinsed and dried each time they are used. They should never be put away dirty. The stock should on no account be allowed to remain in them all night. The quality of the stock depends in a gi'eat measure upon the cleanliness of the pot. Probable cost, copper stock pots, from .£1 14s. ; fitted with taps, from £3 15s. : tinned iron stock pots, from 17s. 6d.; with taps, from 30s. Tamis.—A tamis or tammy cloth is a piece of thin woollen canvas, used in straining soups and sauces. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. each. Tartlet Tins.—Tartlet tins are made of tin, and are used for baking the trimmings of pastry rolled out ftmoothly and very thin. The jam is better to Ue