( 1045 ) VEA VEA calf—and of which fricandeau is made, the iindei- noix used for forcemeat, pies, &c., and the centre noix for sauce, &c. As veal becomes tainted very quickly, the udder should be examined and wiped dry every day, and the kernel should be removed from the fat. The most usual mode of dressing a fillet of veal is to stuff and roast it, though it can be either boiled or braised. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Fillet of (au bechamel — second dressing).—The remains of a dressed fillet of veal may be served in this way. Cut a portion of meat from the centre of the veal, leaving a goodly portion xmtouched from which slices may be cut. Trim the joint, fill up any cracks or cuts there may be in it with forcemeat, and bind it securely. Put it into the oven for an hour or more till it is heated throughout, and be careful to baste liberally for fear it should be dry. Meanwhile mince finely the veal that was taken from the fillet, mix a little forcemeat with it, and stir into it as much good white sauce as will moisten it well. Put this mince into the hollow in the fillet, cover with finely- grated bread-crumbs, and drop a little clarified butter upon the crumbs. Place the veal again in the oven till the crumbs are brightly browned, and serve the veal on a hot dish, with bechamel or good white sauce round it. Time, one hour and a half. Veal, Fillet of. Boiled.—Take a small and white fillet of veal for this purpose. Re- move the bone, fill its space with good veal forcemeat, and bind the veal securely with tape. Put a few skewers at the bottom of the stew- pan to keep the veal fi'om sticking; lay it on these, and pour over it as much cold weak stock, milk and water, or even water only, as will barely cover it. Let it heat slowly and sim- mer very gently indeed until it is done enough. The more gently it is simmered the better it will be. Carefully remove the scum as it rises. When done enough, take it up, put it on a hot dish, garnish with lemon, and send oyster, celery, or white sauce to table with it; or a sauce made by thickening a little of the stock in which it was boiled with white thickening, seasoning with salt, pepper, and mace, and fiavouring with lemon-juice and sherry. A boiled tongue should accompany this dish, which if served alone is in danger of being considered insipid. Time to simmer a fillet of veal weighing six pounds, three hours. Probable cost, Is. Id. per pound. Sufficient for half a dozen persons. Veal, Fillet of, Boiled (another way).— Remove the bone, and fill the centre with stufling similar to that used for boiled turkey. Allow twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minutes over, for the boiling of this joint. After the water boils, skim carefully, and let it only simmer, keeping the meat covered by adding hot water, or it will become brown. The beauty of this dish depends on delicacy in the colour of the meat. A sauce must be formed by taking out a pint of the broth which has been made in boiling; this must he thickened with good cream, butter, and Hour, and flavoured with mushroom ketchup, and mushroom powder or button mushiooms. If cream be not at hand for thickening the broth, a sauce may be made by mingling the yolks of two eggs with flour, butter, and broth. Veal, Fillet of (French way). —Trim, stuflE, and truss a fillet of veal as directed for Veal, Fillet of. Roasted. If liked, the surface and the sides of the fiUet may be larded with strips of fat bacon. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with sliced vegetables and with thiu slices of bacon or ham. Lay the veal on this, moisten with a pint of stock or water, lay slices of bacon upon it, cover closely, and if possible put live embers on the lid of the pan, and let it braise very gently over a slow tire tiU tender. Baste frequently with the gravy. Take it up drain it, and put it in the oven. Strain the Hauce, and boil quickly for a few minutes; then baste the meat with it till it looks bright and glossy. Serve on a hot dish, and send any kind of dressed vegetable to table with it, together with brown Italian or tomato sauce as an accompaniment. If liked, the gravy in which it was stewed may be simply strained and thickened with brown thickening, then flavoured with pepper, lemon-juice, and light wine; and to enrich it oysters or stewed mushrooms may be added. Time to stew the veal, at least half an hour to each pound. Probable cost, veal, Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Fillet of, Roasted.—Have the fillet cut to the size required. Remove the bone, and fill the cavity with good veal force- meat {see Veal Forcemeat). Cut the flap slightly, and lay forcemeat under it. Draw the flap round, skewer the veal, bind it fiimly into a round shape, skewer the skin which has been sent with the veal over the forcemeat and the fat, flour the fillet, and put it down at some dis- tance from the fire, then draw it gradually nearer till done enough, and baste frequently. Let the outside be well browned, though it must not be burnt. Remove the skin, skewers, and tape, and put the veal on a hot dish. Pour melted butter coloured with browning or some good veal gray)'- {see Veal, Gravy for) round it, and garnish with sliced lemon. A pig's cheek, a boiled tongue, or small pieces of bacon or ham should be served with roast veal. It is always well to prepare plenty of stufl&ng, so that it may be used to flavour a mince if the remains of the veal are served in that form. As it is a little difficult to keep the stuffing in the veal when it is roasted before the fire, many cooks prefer to bake it in a moderate oven. When this plan is adopted the veal must be basted frequently. The veal should be roasted slowly, or the outside will be burnt before the meat is done through, and underdone veal is most unwholesome. Time to roast thp veal, twenty-eight minutes to the pound; half an hour to the pound in frosty weather. Probable cost. Is. Id. per pound. Veal, Fillet of, Roasted (another way). —The fillet of veal is most commonly roasted, being pre^^ously stuflted either in the flap or in the space in the centre from which the bone was taken. Veal, being a dry meat, requires constant basting either with butter, beef drip- ping, or suet. It must lie roasted thorouyln,/