WAS ( 11 two, four, or six bottles of port, slu^rry, or madeira, witli a pound and a half of (inu loaf sugar pounded to four Lotties, and set all on the fire in a clean bright saucepan; meanwhile, have the yoUcs of twelve and the whites of six eggs well whisked up in it. Then, when the spiced and sugared wine is a little wanii, take out oiui tea-cupful, and so on for three or four cups; after which, when it boils, add the whole of the remainder, pouring it in gradually, and stir- ring it briskly all the time so as to froth it. The moment a fine froth is obtained, toss in twelve fine soft roasted apples, and send it up hot. Spices for each bottle of wine: Ten grains of mace, forty-six grains of cloves, thirty-seven grains of cardamoms, twenty-eight grains of cinnamon, twelve gi-aina of nutmeg, forty- eight grains of ginger, and forty-nine grains of coriander-seeds. Wassail Bowl (another way).—Put into a bowl half a pound of Lisbon sugar, pour on it a pint of warm beer, grate a nutmeg and some ginger into it, add four glassfuls of sheiry and five additional pints of beer; stir well, and sweeten to taste. Let the preparation stand covered up for two or three hours, then put into it three or four slices of bread cut thin and toasted brown. Sometimes a couple or three slices of lemon and a few lumps of loaf sugar rubbed into the peeling of a lemon are intro- duced. Wassail Custard.—A wassail custard is really a tipsy cake under another name. Cover the bottom of a punch bowl or a deep glass dish with a mixtiire of macaroons, ratafias, and sponge biscuits, all crumbled. Moisten with sherry or raisin wine, and add a glassful of brandy and the strained juice of a lemon. Let the biscuits stand in a cool place for an hovir, till they have absorbed the wine. Cover them with some rich, highly-seasoned custard, sprinkle grated nutmeg and powdered sugar lightly upon the sm-face, and ornament with blanched and sliced almonds. Water as a Beverage.—No water what- ever is absolutely pure; the freer, however, from extraneous matter the better, except that it should not be deprived of the common air, of which it usually contains a portion; con- sequently, newly-distilled water is not desirable, nor water that is just produced from thawed ice or snow—such water should be exposed for a day or two to the atmosphere, that it may absorb air, which appears to be essential to it as an agreeable beverage. Spring water is the most agreeable, from its general purity and coolness; but all spring water is not fit for di-ink, as it often contains various salts. The water of rivers is in general good, par- ticularly when filtered, so also is rain-water; stagnant is the worst. It is necessary ^ to boil water only when it contains salts which require to be precipitated. "Water," says Dr. Paris, " is unquestionably the natural beve- rage of man; but any objection against the use of other beverages foundisd on their artificial origin I should at once ropol by an argument which might be also used in defence of cookery. We axe to consider man as he is, not as he 3i ) WAT miglit have been had lio never forsaken the rude jjatlis of nature. 1 ajii willing to confess that the more simply life is suj)portod, and the loss stimulus wo use, the- bcitter, aiid that he is h'lppy who considers water the best drink and salt the best sauce." Water Biscuits.—Rub an ounce of butter into one pound of best flour. Add a i)inch of salt, and stir as much cold water into the mix- ture as will make a stift', smooth paste. Roll this out till very thin, cut it into small biscuitB, and bake upon buttered tins in a quick oven. Water Cakes.—Sift three-quarters of a pound of pounded and sifted sugar with one pound of fine flour. Add a pinch of SJilt and a tablespoonful of caraway seeds. !Mix wi-U with the white of an egg beaten up with a little cold water, and roll the paste thin. Stamp into small rounds with a cutter, prick holes in them with a fork, and bake upon tins in a good oven. Water, Cherry.—Take a dozen morella cherries, crush the fruit, and break the kernels; put them into a large tumbler, and pour over them a wine-glassful of capillaire. Half fill the tumbler with shaved ice, add a wine-glassful of cold water, and serve with sponge biscuits. Watercress possesses valuable medicinal properties of a stimulating nature, and is said to be particularly useful in strengthening the nerves. The expressed juice, which contains the peculiar pungency and taste of the herb, is used in medicine. External impurities in watercress may be removed by washing, but WATEKCriESSES. not the impurities which are absorbed within. If the full virtues of this herb arc to be ex- perienced, it should be eaten fiequentlv and freely. It is mostly used, with bread and salt, as an accompaniment to cheese. It is also used to garnish dishes; it is excellent served as a salad; and it is good boiled as spmach. U ater- cresscs are good from autumn till early summer,, unless when cut off by frost. Bronz(^-leaved specimens are the mwt highly esteemed. Watercress, Pigeons Served with. [ncc Pigeons Served with Wuteurcs.s).