( 1124 ) WIL "WIL " wiggs," with as littlo flour as poasible and a few caraway-soodB, and bako thorn quickly. Wilberforce Pudding. — Maku batter the Bamo us fur a batter pudding, liutter a bakiug-dish, put in the batter; take some apples, rub them clean with a cloth, take out the stalk and blossom, and do not pare thoni or take out the cores. Put them in the batter, and bake in a (juick oven. If the apides are pared before they are put in the pudding they mash among the batter as soon as they are hot, and make the pudding soft; but when baked whole the pudding is light, and oats very weU. Use butter and sugar for sauce. Wild Boar. — This dish is prepared and dressed in the same way as pork. Generally the flesh of the wild boar is cut in fillets or cutlets, or in slices, which are laid in a stew- pan with butter, chives, parsley, thyme, basilic. When the slices are haH done take them off, and let them steep in their own gravy a day and a night; then fry them, and serve with pickled gherkins. "Wild Boar Cutlets.—Take the under fillets of a ^\nld boar; cut them into slices three-quarters of an inch thick and the shape and size of a cutlet. Lay these in an earthen pan, cover with equal parts of vinegar and white wine, and add a head of garlic and a little salt. Leave them for a couple of hours or longer; drain, and dry them with a soft cloth. Sprinkle over them a little finely- chopped parsley, thyme, and sage, and fry them in butter till done enough. Take them up, and pour a little of the marinade into the saucepan with the butter. When it is quite hot, put the cutlets in a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve garnished with sliced gherkins. If pre- ferred, the cutlets, instead of being fried, may be larded and stewed in a very small quantity of rich gravy glazed, and served with Robert sauce. Time to fry the cutlets, fifteen to twenty minutes. Probable cost, uncertain. Wild Boar Ham.—Take a ham that has hung for ten days or more, singe off the bristles, wash the ham in lukewarm water, and saw oft the bone two inches below the knuckle. Put it in a marinade made of equal parts of vinegar and water, to which has been added a tumbler- ful of light wine, a bunch of sage, and a little salt and caycmne. Ijot it remain for eiglit days; drain it, and wipe it dry. Cover witli pajxir that has boon soaked in oil, jiut it down before a clear fire, and baste with the marinade every quaitor of an hour. When done enough, take off the paper, and remove tlie rind. Brush the ham over with liquid gkze, and put it in the oven for a short time, or, if prefeiTcd, instead of glazing it, cover with bread-raspings. Put a paper frill round the knuckle, place the ham on a dish, and send venison sauce, or sauce made of the nmrinade boiled with a little good gravj' and strained, served in a boat. If more convenient, the rind may be removed from the ham at first, and then it need lie in the marinade three days only. Wild-boar hams are very good either when diessed fresh or after they have been cured and smoked. Time to roast the ham, about three hours. Probable cost, imcertain. Wild Boar. Hauncli of, witli Cherry Sauce.—The loUowing recipe is given by M. Dubois in his " Cosmopolitan Cookerj':"—" Get a quarter of young wild boar, fresh and without rind ; take out the thigh-bone, and saw off the thin end; salt, put it in a kitchen basin, pour over a quart of cold cooked "marinade " stock, let it macerate for two or three days, drain, wipe it on a cloth, and put it into a deep roast- ing-pan with lard. Cover it with greased paper, roast it in the oven for three-quarters of an hour, basting often with the fat; then add a few spoonfuls of its marinade, and cook half an hour longer, basting with its own stock. When done vsdthdraw the roasting-pan from the oven, drain the quarter, and spread on its surface a thick layer of black bread- crumbs rasped, dried, pounded, sifted, and mixed up with a little sugar and cinnamon, then moistened with red wine, but only just enough to give it a little consistence. Sprinkle over the layer some drj' bread-crumbs, baste with the fat of the roasting-pan, into which put the quarter back, and keep it at the entrance of the oven for twenty minutes, basting often. When ready to serve take it up, put a ruffle on the bone, dish up, and serve separately the following sauce :—Cherry sauce. Soak in water two handfuls of black dry cherries, as commonly sold in Geraiany—that is, with the kemels; pound them in a mortjir, dilute with a glassful of red wine, and pour the preparation into a sugar-pan. Add to it a piece of cinnamon, two cloves, a Httle salt, and a piece of lemon-zest. Let the prepanttion boil for two minutes, and thicken it with a httle diluted poiato-flour; draw the pan on the side of the fire, cover it, keep it there for a quarter of an hour, and pass it afterwards through a sieve. The cooked marinade men- tioned above is prepared thus:—First of all some chopped roots and vegetables must bo fried with butter, these are moistened with common vinegar, in quantity nearly suftioiont to cover the meats intended to be marinaded. When the vegetables are well saturated, mix