( 1023 ) TUB- HDD a tureon, stir into it a clarct-glassful of good madeira or shony, and servo immediately. A spoonful of lemon-juico may be added if liked, and if it is not put into the soup, a dish con- taining one or two lemons cut in halves may be served with the soup, so that the juice may be added at the discretion of the guests. Turtle Store Sauce (for flavouring liashes, stews, and sauces).—Put an ounce and a half of very thinly-peeled lemon-iind, half an ounce of good curry powder, and a quarter of an ounce of cayenne into a large bottle, and poui' over them a small tumblerful of basil wine, half the quantity of mushroom ketchup, six table-spoonfuls of shallot wine, and four table- spoonfuls of essence of anchovy. Add two drachms of concrete lemon acid, cover the bottle to keep out the dust, and let the ingredients infuse for eight or ten days. Strain and filter the liquor, then bottle it: it will prove useful for flavouring purposes. Time, ten days. Sufiicient, two table-spoonfuls of this essence will flavour a pint of sauce. Twelfth. Cake.—A twelfth cake, or any important cake, if made at home, will require care, attention, and good materials. If these are given, and the following recipe attended to, the result can scarcely fail to be satisfactory, and a considerable saving may be effected, compared with what the same cake would have cost if bought at a confectioner's. Before beginning to mix the cake all the ingredients should be pre- pared, the flour dried and sifted, the currants washed, dried, and picked, the nutmegs grated, the spices pounded, the candied fruit cut into thin sHces, the almonds bruised with orange- flower or rose water, but not to a paste, the sugar sifted, and the eggs thoroughly whisked, yolks and whites separately. Care should be taken to make the cake and to keep the fruit in a warm place, and, unless the weather is very warm, to whisk the eggs in a pan set in another containing hot water. To make the cake, put two pounds of fresh butter into a large bowl, and beat it with the hand to a smooth cream: then add two pounds of powdered sugar, a large nutmeg grated, and a quarter of an ounce each of powdered cinnamon, powdered mace, pow- dered ginger, and powdered allspice. Beat the mixture for ten minutes, add gradually twenty eggs, and beat the cake for twenty minutes. Work in two pounds of flour, four pounds of currants, half a pound of bruised almonds, half a pound each of candied orange, candied lemon, and candied citron, and, last of all, a claret- glassful of brandy, and beat the cake lightly between every addition. Line a baking-hoop with doubled paper well buttered, pour in the mixture, and be careful that it docs no more than three-parts fill it, that there may be room for the cake to rise. Cover the top with paper, set the tin on an inverted plate in the oven to keep it from ljuming at the bottom, and bake in a slow but well-heated oven. When it is nearly cold, cover it as smoothly as possible with sugar- icing three-quarters of an inch thick {.see Frost or Icing for Cakes). Ornament with fancy articles of any kind, with a high ornament in the centre: those mny frequently bo hired of the confectioner. In order to sieceitain whether the cake is done enough, plunge a bright knife into the centre of it, and if it comes out bright and clear the cake is done. A cake of this de- scription will, if properly made, and kept in a cool dry place, keep for twelve months. If cut too soon it -will crumble and fall to pieces. It will be at its best when it has been kept four months. Time to bake, four hours and a half. Probable cost, 12s. for this quantity. Twelfth Cake (another way). — The following is an old recipe:—Seven pounds of fine flour, two pounds and a half of the freshest butter, seven pounds of currants pre- pared as before directed, two large nutmegs grated, half an ounce of mace and a quarter of an ounce of cloves pounded to fine pow- der, a pound of sifted lump sugar, the yolks of sixteen and the whites of twelve eggs, and a pint and a half of the very best distiller's yeast. Warm as much cream as vdll wet this mass, and add as much sweet malmsey or mountain wine as will give it the consistence of batter. Beat, not too fine, a pound of sweet almonds bleached; rub them with some of the sweet wine and orange-flower water; then add, and beat also, haK a pound each of candied lemon, citron, and orange-peel. Let the whole be well mixed, and put the cake into a hoop with a thick paste of flour and water under it in order to preserve the bottom from scorching. Ice it the moment it is drawn from the oven. Twelfth Cake, Lady Caroline Lamb's.—Quarter of a peck of pure flour care- fully dried, three pounds of currants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, haK a pound of refined sugar, quarter of a pound of sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and sliced, two ounces of orange and two ounces of candied • lemon-peel, and spices according to taste. Mix all thoroughly; then take one pint of cream, and put to it three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter washed first in pure and afterwards in rose-water; place in a gentle heat. Beat up the white and yolks, separately, of six eggs, and the yolks only of six more. Add to them a little rose-water, two table-spoonfuls of carda- mom brandy, half a glassful of old Ehenish, hock, or champagne, quarter of a pint of fresh yeast, and a little fine salt. Mix the liquids together, strain them, add the dry materials warm, and mix the whole into a light smooth batter. Place it before a fire for twenty minutes to rise, butter your hoop, and use what flour is necessary to make the cake sufficiently stiff. Set it in the oven with some sheets of brown paper well floured to prevent its burn- ing. In about a couple of hours it will be done. Ice it in the usual manner, and stick any ornaments you choose upon the icing before it is dry. u Udderj Beef.—Beef udder may be gently simmered m broth or water, then sliced, and served with onion or tomato sauce. If liked, it may be put in salt for a couple of days before being boiled. Salted udder should be e^iten cold, and vinegar and oil shotild be sent to table with it.