TOA TOA ( 979 ) Toast and Water.—Toast a small slice of stiile bread (crusty bread is the best) till it is brightly browned all over "vsithout being in the least burnt. Pour over it a quart of boil- ing water, and let it stand till cold. Filter it, and put it into a decanter. If the toast-water is quickly wanted, just cover the bread with boiling water, and when that is cold, add as much cold filtered water as will fiU the jug. Toast-water should be quite cold before it is presented to an invalid, as it is by no means an agreeable beverage when taken lukewarm or hot. Time to soak, half an hour. TOASTING FORKS. Toast, Buttered.—Toast which is to be buttered should be cut from a loaf one or two days old, in slices about the third of an inch thick. Cut off the crust, and toast the bread before a clear bright fire. When it is equally and lightly coloured on one side turn it to do the other. Place little pieces of butter here and there upon it, put it before the fire for a minute or two till the butter is soft, then spread it upon the toast, taking care not to press heavily upon the bread, or the toast will be heavy. Cut each slice separately into strips an inch and a half broad, and pile these on a hot dish. If one or two slices are cut thi-ough together, the butter will sink from the upper piece to the lower. Some cooks hold the toasted bread over a bowl of boiling water for a minute before buttering it. This is to soften it, that it may take the butter more readily. Buttered toast should be prepared at the last moment, and served very hot. Toast, Buttered (another way). — Sec Buttered Toast. Toast, Buttered, and Cheese.—Crush half a pound of old Cheshire cheese in a mortar, and pound with it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a small tea-spoonful of mustard. Take a slice of bread halt' an incli thick, cut off the crust, and toast it on both sides. Spread the cheese- paste upon it, lay it upon a dish, and put it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire until the paste is melted. Servo very hot. Time to melt the cheese, about three or four minutes. Probable cost, Is. Sufficient for two persons. Toast Dry —Bo careful to have a clear bright fire, and 'see that the bars are quite clean. Cut as many slices as may be required from a leaf of bread two days old. These slices should be very tliin—less than a quarter of an inch thick. Cut off the crust, and warm the bread on both sides for one minute before toasting it; then put it on the toastmg-fork, hold it a little distance from the fire, move it about till it is lightly and equally toasted, and when it is done upon one side turn it to do the other. Dry toast should be coloured gradually, as its perfection consists in its being crisp and dry without being very dark and brown or in the least burnt. It should be made a few minutes only before it is wanted, as it soon becomes heavy. It should never be placedon a dish or table, but bo put at once in the toast-rack, or, if this is not at hand, two slices should be made to lean one against another. It is almost unnecessary to add that toast should never be made with new bread. Toast, Egg {see Egg Toast). Toast for Soup.—Cut a slice of thin bread, toast it lightly on both sides, and cut it into dice not larger than a quarter of an inch square. Threw these into a frying-pan with hot fat, and turn them about till they are quite crisp. Lift them out with an egg-slice, and put them on an inverted sieve before the fire for a minute or two to drain them from the fat. Serve them on a separate dish. Time to fry the dice, about a minute. Toast, German {see German Toast). Toast, Ox Tongue {see Ox Tongue Toast—a breakfast relish). Toast, Savoury.—Scale and bono two or three anchovies without washing them. Beat them to a paste, and add a pinch of cayenne or a little dry mustard and a small lump of butter. Toast a slice of brown bread, and butter it well. Spread the savoury paste upon it, and push it into the oven, or let it stand before the fire for a minute or two till it is very hot. Serve immediately. If liked, the yolk of an egg and a table-spoonful of cream may be mixed with the pounded anchovies, and the paste may be stirred over the fire for a short time till it is very hot without boiling. Toast, To prepare, for Koast Game.—Toast a slice of bread the third of an inch thick till it is brightly browned on both sides. Cut off the crust, hold it over a bowl of boiling water for a minute to imbibe the steam, and butter it well. Soak it in the dripping in the pan under the birds, and when these are ready, serve them upon it. Toasts, Hamburg. — When a small quantity only of any savoury fricassee is left, it may bo warmed up as follows:—Mince the meat finely, and put with it any seasoning that may be required. Mix it with the sauce, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is thick. Draw it away from the fire for a minute, and mix with it thb yolk of an egg well beaten. Stir it over the fire again till it is hot ntliout letting it boil. Turn it upon a dish, and let it get