( 078 ) QUI QTJE thcso goutly in a littlo gravy till thoy uro done through. Drain, and servo piled high on a hot dish, with mushroom sauco poured round them. Time to boil, about a quarter of an hour. Quenelles of Grouse.—Cut the meat from the remains of di-essed grouse, liemove the skin and sinew, and pound the flesh in a mortar until it can be rubbed through a coarse sieve. To every pound of meat add half a pound of bread-crumb, soaked in milk and drained, one ounce of fat bacon, two ounces of butter, half a tea-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, the eighth of a grated nutmeg, and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. When these ingi-edients are well mixed, pound them again all together; then add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Divide t'le mix- ture into small quantities. Foi-m these as nearly as possible of the size and shape of an egg; poach them in boiling stock, drain well, and serve in a dish, with some nicely-flavoured grsLVj, made with the bones and trimmings of the grouse, and thickened with arrowroot. Quenelles, when well made, are considered a delicacy. They should be light and spongy; and it is a good plan to try one ball first before cooking the whole. If not sufficiently firm, add another egg; if too much so, add a few drops of water. Quenelles are sometimes put into buttered cups, boiled, and turned out when done enough. Stewed mushrooms may be sent to table with them. Time, a quarter of an hour to poach. Probable cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Quenelles of Rabbit.—Cut the meat from a boiled rabbit, and carefully remove every particle of skin and sinew. Pound it till smooth, and press it through a sieve. Put a calf's udder into a stewpan with as much cold water as will cover it. Let it boil gently, and when it is done enough, take it out and let it cool. Trim away the upper parts, cut it up small, pound it in a mortar, and then press it through a sieve. Chop up six small mushrooms, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of an egg, the peel of a quarter of a thinly-sliced lemon, a chopped shallot, a pinch of powdered thyme, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Steam these ingredients over a gentle fire for ten minutes. Soak the crumb of two French rolls in milk. "When quite soft, put them into a napkin, and squeeze the moisture from them. Put them into the stewpan with the seasoning, add a table-spoonful of white sauce, and beat the mixture over a gentle fire until it is quite dry and leaves the saucepan with the spoon. Take it from the fire, and mix with it the yolk of an egg. Put the panada, the calf's udder that has passed through the sieve, and the pounded meat into a cool place, and leave them for an hour. To make the quenelles, take an equal quantity (not weight) of each of the three, pound together with a whole egg, and press the mixture through a sieve. Poach & little piece in boiling water, and if it is properly seasoned, firm, and light, mould the quenelles. Poach them in boiling water, serve on a hot dish, pouring over them good white sauce iiavoured with muslu ooms. I'oach the quenelles till they are firm, which will be in from three to twelve minutes, according to size. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to lOd. per pound. Quenelles, Ragofit of.—Take half a pound of any kind ol' diessed meat, game, or poultry. Cut it small, imd pound it in a mortiir. Mix with it its weight in bread-crumbs, and add a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of tliin lemon-rind, cut very small, half an anchovy, boned and pounded, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and half a clove of garlic, if liked. I'ound these in- gredients thoroughly. Mix them up with an ounce of clarified butter, and when cool, bind the mixture together with tlie yolk of an egg. ]\Iake it into balls the size of a walnut; fry these in hot fat, drain them, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them a rich brown gravy. If liked, the quenelles may be poached in boiling water instead of being fried in fat, and white sauce, in which a few mushrooms have been boiled, can be poured on. The juice of a lemon should be squeezed over before the sauce is poured upon them. Time to poach or fry the quenelles, five to ten minutes, or until they are firm. Probable cost, exclusive of the gravy. Is. Sufficient for a small dish. Quince.—The common quiuc3 is a hard and austere fruit; when stewed with sugar, however, it becomes imcommonly pleasant, and in this way is often eaten alone, and often to impart a flavour to apple pies. It is also much used to make a preserve known as Quince THE QUINCE. Marmalade. A delicious beverage, something like cider, is also made from it. The seeds readily impart their mucilage to water, and will convert forty or fifty times their weight an water into a substance thick as syrup. The quince was grown by the ancient Greeks and Romans; in our own day it is cultivated in the South of Europe, in England, and in temperate climates generally. Quinces are peculiar for the strong odour which they exhale: this odour is a sign that they are fit for use. On account of it, the fruit should not be kept closely shut