( 1066 ) VEA VEA of chopped mushrooms, two table-spoonfuls of sherry, iind the yolk of iiu ogg bt-atoii up with throe tiiblo-spooufuls of croum. Stir tliis suuco over tlio fire till it begins to thicken, but it must not boil. Dish the fried tendons in a cirole on a hot dish, pour the sauce into the centre, _ and servo very liot. Sometimes the sauce is thickened with yolk of egg and allowed to get cold, then the sliced tendons are dipped into it, aftorwai-ds into bread-crumbs, and fried as before. Time, four hours to sim- mer the tendons. Veal Tendons, Fried (a la Villeroi).— Stew the tendons in the usual way, and when they are tender put them between two dishes till cold. Cut them into neat slices half an inch thick and about an inch and a half square, and place them in a marinade of equal parts of oil and \'inegar, with, a sliced onion and a strip of lemon-rind put under them, and a little pepper and salt sprinkled over them. Let them remain in this for three hours. Drain and dry them, dip them in frying batter, and fry till they are bro\\Ti. Serve in a circle, with tomato sauce in the centre of the dish. Time, four hours to simmer the tendons. Veal Tendons, Stewed.—Cut the ten- dons oS. the breast of veal, leaving the flap of meat on the ribs, and divide them into pieces six inches long. "Wrap these in slices of fat bacon, tie them with twine, and place them in a saucepan on a bed of sliced vegetables, consist- ing of a carrot, a turnip, an onion, a few outer sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, eight peppercorns, three cloves, a blade of mace, a strip of lemon-rind, and a little salt. Pour over them as much stock or water as will cover them, and let them simmer gently till they look almost transparent and are so tender that they can be pierced easily with a skewer. Take them up carefully, put them between two dishes, and leave them till cold. Strain the gravy in which they were, simmered, remove the fat from it, and boil till it is considerably reduced. Trim the ten- dons, heat them in their own gravy, glaze them with it, dish them in a cii'cle, pour a little of the gravy round them, and send the rest to table in a tureen. Serve dressed vegetables in the centre of the dish. Green peas, stewed spinach, stewed son'cl, mixed vegetables, and artichoke puree may accompany them, also tomato or mushroom sauce. Time to simmer the tendons, four hours. Probable cost, uncertain, tendons being usually sold with the breast of veal. Veal Tendons, Stewed, and served with Mixed Vegetables. — Stew the tendons as before. Warm them in gravy, glaze them, and serve in a circle on a dish with a mixture of vc,£jetables boiled separately and heated in a little good white sauce. Time to stew the tendons, about four hours. Veal, To Keep.—As veal when once tainted cannot be recovered like beef or mutton, it is important that cvory precaution sliould bo taken to preserve it in good condition till it is dressed. It should bo kept in a cool larder, and examined daily. It should be kept hanging, too, for if it is laid on a dish the pressure alone will cause it to taint. The pipe which runs along tlus chino of the loin and the kemela from the fat should bo removed au soon as possible. Tho'skiit of the breast, too, sliould bo taken olf, and tlio inside wiped and dredged witli flour. The pait of the leg which bccoiues most quickly tainted is that where the udder lies. The skewer sliould therefore be rouKJvod, and tliat portion examined every day. If there is any indication that veal is likely to become tainted, it should bo plunged into boiling water, boiled quickly for ten minutes, then di-ied thorouglily, hung in a cool larder, and di'essed as soon as possible. Veal Tongue, To Preserve.—Trim tho tongue, and put it into boiling water for a quai-ter of an hour. Drain and dry it, take off the skin, and rub thoroughly with salt which has been mixed with a small proportion of sjilt- petro and a few savoury herbs chopjjcd small. Put it into an earthen jar, sprinkle a handful of chopped herbs upon it, and lay a weight upon it to keep it under the brine. Keep it in a cool, well-ventilated place, and turn and rub it every day for ten days. Drain and drj^ it, put it in a largo polony-slrin properly cleansed, and tie it securely at both ends. If it is to be smoked, hang it over a small fire of juniper wood, upon which aroDiatic herbs are occasionally thrown. Veal, Vol-au-Vent of.—Make a vol-au- vent case the size and shape of the dish in which it is to be served, and bake in a brisk oven {see Vol-au-Vent). "When done, take out the lid, scrape out the soft pastrj-, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Fill care- fully with a hot savoury ragout prepared as follows:—Cut some lean veal into thin slices the size of half-a-crown. Beat these ^vith a cutlet-bat, and fry them till they are lightly browned. Cover with rich brown thick gravy highly flavoured {see Veal, Gravy for), put with them a few fried forcemeat balls, and serve the vol-au-vent on a napkin. Small vol- au-vents may be filled with the savourj- pre- paration recommended for veal patties. Veal, Wholesomeness of.—"Veal," says Dr. Graham, looking at the subject from the medical point of ^■iew, "is usually con- sidered not at all of a heating nature, and is therefore allowed, perhaps generally by the profession, to patients convalescent from an attack of fever, and to those who have a dispo- sition to bleeding from the lungs or elsewhere, especially with the addition of some acid ; but it is, in my opinion, so very indigestible an article, and has uniformly so strong a tendency to irritate the stomach and intestines, that I wlioUy proscribe its use wherever persons are not strong and healthy. In all stomach com- l^laints it is peculiarly"injurious. The flesh of ailves which have been robbed of their blood by repeated bleedings, or reared by the hand with milk adulterated with chalk, and confine- ment in small dark places so as to prevent motion, is unusually depraved." Veal with Cucumbers.—Roast a nock or a loin of veal, or any voal that is left. Tho log part is tough and dry, as every one must know, "\^^len cold, cut it into scallops, nnd put it into the sauce blanquotte. Take eix fine