BIG RIC ( 764 ) Rice Soup, MEkde with Fresh Meat. —Tako Olio ijourid of tho kuucklo of vual, ono pound of gi-avy-beef, half a pound of loan liani, and any bonus and Irimmin'^a that may bo at hand. Cut tho ham into dico and tho moat into pioc'08 an inch squaro. l)inaolvo a hUco of tieah buttor in a stowpan, put in tho ham, then tho roat of tho moat, and add two airrots, two oniona, each ono stuck with ono clovo, half a ilozon outer sticks of celory, a bunch of awoot horbs, and a blado of mace. Cover tho sauce- pan closely, and lot ita contents steam over a gentle lire until tho gravy tiows from the moat. Pour this gravy out, and shake tho saucepan over tho firo till the moat is brown, pour over it thi-oe pints of boiling water, and lot it stew gently until the liquor is reduced to a qiiart. Skim carefully, strain, and then add it to the gravy. Put into it two ounces of rice which have been boiled in water till tender, draiucid, and dried. Season the soup with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Time, three hours. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Soup (suitable for children, or sick persons).—Wash four ounces of rice in three or four waters, drain it, and boil it gently with two quarts of beef or veal stock until it is tender without being broken. Season with a little salt and white pepper, and if the stock is already seasoned, be careful that it is not served too salt, owing to evaporation. If clear soup is wanted, the rice can be boiled separately in water until the grains are tender without being broken, then dropped into the clear soup, and allowed to remain a few minutes without simmering, or the rice may be boiled in thin, nicely-fiavoiired stock, strained, and put into the soup-tureen, the clear soup being then poured over it. Time, one hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice Soup, Superior.—Wash well four ounces of rice, and boil it in two quarts of veal stock till tender, drain it, and put the stock with half the rice back into the stewpan, rub the rest through a fine sieve, then stir it into the soup, and let it boil up. Beat the yolks of three eggs with half a pint of cream, take the soup oft' the fire for two minutes, then add the eggs and cream gradually, and stir the soup unceasingly for thi^ee or four minutes until it is thoroughh^ hot, but it must not boil again or the eggs will curdle. Time, two hours. Sufficient for eight or ten persons. Rice Soup, Royal.—Put two fowls ^vith a large knuckle of veal into a stock-pot; fill it with beef stock, skim it, and add a carrot, a turnip, an onion, half a head of celerj-, and two leeks; boil for five hours, take off all the fat carefully, and strain the consomme through a napkin; put half of it into a middle-sized stew- pan with six ounces of Carolina rice washed and blanched, simmer it for two hours, then break it with a wooden spoon, and add the rest of the consomme; whilst boiling, and at the time of serving, put a spoonful into a puree of fowl, prepared in the usual manner, then re- commence this operation twice, pour the puree thus made thin into the tureen, and on it th(> vcuuiindev of the rice by dejfrecs, that it may be well mingled—for if you pour the rico in quickly, you run tho risk of docompoaing or curdling tlio puree of fowl, which ought to bo rendered smooth in mingling the aoup. Rice Soup, White.—Wash a quarter of a pound of beat Carolimt rico in two or three waters, throw it into faat-boiling water, and keep it boiling for five minutes. Drain it on a sieve, and put it into two quarts of nicely- flavoured white stock, also boiling. Let all simmer gently together until the rice is tender. Add tkroo-quartera of a pint of thick cream, season with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, simmer a minute or two longer, and serve. Time, one hour. Sufficient for six or eight persons. Rice. Spanish way of Dressing.— Boil half a pound of rice as for cuny. If liked, broth can be used instead of water." Drv it well, and fry it with a slice of butter till it is lightly browned. Stir into it two large lipe tomatoes, or failing these a table-spoonful of tomato sauce and a spoonful of grated cheese , season the preparation with white pepper. Work it lightly -with two forks, and serve it, pilc^ high in a hot dish, with, slices of ham, bacon, or German sausage round it: failing these, use dried haddock, herring, or smoked salmon in strips. IHme, a few minutes to brown the rice. Probable cost, 7d., exclusive of the meat or fish round the rice. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Stew Soup.—Take four pounds of good ox-cheek. Wash and soak it for twelve hours in cold water, then dry it well, put it into a stewpan with three quarts of water, four onions, a bunch of herbs, a sliced carrot, two or three sticks of celery, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and cayenne. Simmer the meat gently for two hours, then take it out, cut it into pieces convenient for serving, and return it to the saucepan with six ounces of well- washed rice. Simmer all together till the rice is tender. If liked, this soup may be thickened with a little cuiry powder, or with a little brown thickening, and cow-heels maj' be used instead of ox-cheek in its preparation. Time, four hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for seven or eight persons. Rice Stuffing for Sucking Pig.— Rice is frequently used as a stuffing for sucking pig, and also for breast of veal. To prepare it. boil the rice till it is quite tender, and drj* it perfectly. Jlix with it a fourth of its quantity in split peas, also boiled till soft and dried, flavoui- the mixture with pepper and salt and a little finely minced ham, beat it well, and it will be ready for use. Rice Tart.—Wash a smaU tea-cupful of rice, and simmer it \\nth a quart of milk until it is tender. Beat it well, and mix with it a pinch of salt, a little sugar, a flavouring of nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon, and three egg.*; Line a pie-dish with good pastry, spread thr rice upon it, and bake in a quick orcn. Befv)rc serving, sprinkle the surface with sifted sugar. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d. Suflicicnt for (iv.> or six persons.