YOR ( 11 Btir into it two oimcos of currants picked and dried, throw a (^lotli ovor tho bowl, and jiiit it bol'oro tho llru or in a warm jjlaco to nso. At tho oud of half an liour, or whon woil risen, stir in throe woJl-beaton eggs. Make a little butter or da-ipping hot in a frying-pan, drop tho battor into it a spoonful at a time, and keep the fritters apart. Wlien they are brown upon one side, turn them upon tho other; drain thorn, serve on a napkin, and sift powdered white sugar thickly ovor thorn. Time to fry the fritters, thi-eo or four minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Sufficient for throe or four persons. Yorkshire Frumenty (a Christmas Sup- per Dish).—Put a pint of good wheat into a bowl, pour cold water over it, and let it soak for twelve hours or more. Cover with a plate, put it la the oven, and let it simmer gently till tender. Stir occasionally to keep it from sticking to the bot- tom of the dish. Take it out and let it get cold; it ought to be quite atift. When wanted, stir about a pint of the boiled wheat into a quart of boiling milk, sweeten the mixture, and flavom* with grated nutmeg or powdered cinnamon. Let it boil, serve in a soup tureen, and hand it round in soup plates. Time to simmer the wheat, about three hours. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for four or five persons. Yorkshire Hare Cake.—Procure a hare, three-quarters of a pound of lean ham, four hard-boiled eggs, and a little gravy jelly. Pick the flesh from the bones in pieces as large as possible, divide it into neat coUops, about a quarter of an inch thick, and put these aside in a covered dish till wanted. Put the bones and trimmings of the hare into a saucepan, with a calf's foot, a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bay-leaf, a few sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thjTne, and half a dozen peppercorns. Pour upon the ingredients as much stock or water as v ill cover them, and let them simmer gently till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. If the liquor is not so strong that it will jelly when cold, two ounces or more of gelatine may be dissolved in it. Free the jelly entirely from fat; spread a thin layer of it at the bottom of an earthen potting-pan, and fill the pan with alternate layers of the coUops of hare, thin slices of ham, the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and the gravy jelly. Season each layer with a slight sprinkling of herbs and spices {see Aromatic Seasoning of Herbs and Spices). When the whole of the ingredients are used, cover the pan with a coarse paste of flour and water, put it in the oven in a di-ipping-tin, three-parts filled with boiling water, and keep the water boiling round it till it is done enough. Take the pan out of the oven and leave it in a cold plfice till the next day. Turn it out upon a dish, garnish mth parsley, and serve as a luncheon, breakfast, or supper dish. Time to bake tho cake, one hour and a quarter to one hour and three-quarters, according to the size of the hare. I^-obable cost of hare, Ss. 6d. to 6s. 6d. each. Sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Yorkshire Pie.—A true Yorkshire pic, such as constitutes a standing dish during the Chri.stmas festivities at tho hospitable board of p. Yorkshire squire, is simply a raised pie filled 56) yoE with poultry and game of different kinds, put on(! inside tho other and side by side. 'J'hese picH arc soinetinics niad(! of a large size ; and it is recorded that one of them, wliich was sent from Sheffield in 1832 as a present to tlie then Lord Chancellor Brougham, broke down on account <jf its weight. Yorkshire pies require both skill and patience for their manufacture. They are not common, and are becoming less and less so; nevertheless, when successfully made they form a most excellent dish, and one sure to be highly a])preciated. Turkey, jihea- sants, ducks, fowls, gi-ouse, snipes, and tongue; any or all of these may enter into thf;ir com- position. Whatever birds are used should be boned and partially stewed before being put into the pie : the smallest of them should be filled with good, highly-seasoned veal forcemeat; a layer of forcemeat should be placed at the bottom of the pie, and all the vacant placet filled with the same. A recipe is here given foi making a moderate-sized pie. Bone a fowl and a goose; fiU tne fowl with good veal forcemeat, truss it, and sew it up. Truss the goose, and put the two side by side in a stewpan which will just hold them. Pour over them as much stock as will cover them, and let them simmer gently for haK an hour. Take them up, put the fowl inside the goose, truss the latter, and sew it up. Line a pie-mould with some pastry, such as is used for making raised pies, rolled out to a good thickness. Cover the bottom with a layer of forcemeat, lay the goose upon it, pour a little of the liquor in which it was stewed over it, and place round it slices of pigeons, boned hare, tongue, &c. FiU the vacant placee with forcemeat, and when the meat is closely packed in the crust put over it a layer of clari- fied butter. Place the pastrj^-cover on the top, brush over with egg, ornament it, bind several folds of buttered paper round it, and bake in a well-heated oven. Make a Httle strong jelly by boiling the bones and trimming? with seasoning and spices, and pour-this into the pie after it is baked. When the pie is to be served, place it on a dish covered with a napkin, remove the cover whole, and cut the meat in thin slices. The pastry of a pie like this is not made to be eaten but is simply in- tended as a case in which to preserve and serve the meat. When a skewer will pierce easily to the bottom of the pie in the centre it is done enough. Time to bake the pie, four hours or more. Yorkshire Ploughman's Salad.— Wash some lettuces, and drj^ them perfectly Shred them finely, and toss them lightly in a sauce made as follows:—Mix thoroughly a s;dt- spoonful of salt with an equal quantity of pepper, two table-spoonfuls of vinogar,and oneof treacle. Add the sauce to the salad at the moment of ser%dng. A bunch of chives or a handful of young onions may be introduced or not. Yorkshire Pudding.—Allow one egg. and milk to make a tolerably stiff batter, to two tiiblc-spoonfuls of flour. This will make a verj- good puddini?, though a better and lighter one may be made by using two (\ggs to three table- spoonfuls of flour, or even one egg to each table-spoonful of flour. Put as much flour as