( 682 ) PLA garden weed, said to be a remarkably good pot- herb boiled in the spring. Fat Hen {Chenopodium urbicum and Chcno- podiuin album).—Both those pknts are annuals, and are frequently met with amongst the rubbish of buildings, &c. Boiled and oaten as spinach, they are quite as good as that vegetable. "Several other native, but less conunon, species of this genus may be applied to the same use." Ox ToNQUK {Picris hieracioides). — An annual common in clayey pastures and wastes. When boiled it affords a good green. Sauce Alone, or Jack by the Hedge, {Erysimum alliaria).—A biennial plant, found beside hedges whore the soil is dry and rich. The stem rises two or three feet high, with heart-shaped leaves of a yellowish green colour; the flowers are white, and appear in May. The whole plant has a strong odour of garlic. It is occasionally employed as a salad, boiled as a pot-horb, or introduced in sauces. Neill observes that, when gathered as it approaches the flowering state, boiled separately, and then eaten with boiled mutton, it certainly forms a most desirable pot-herb, and, to any kind of salted meat, an excellent green. Sea Beet {Beta maritima).—A biennial com- mon on various sea-shores. It is used like the "Fat Hen." Sea Orache {Atriplex littoralis). — An annual which is eaten in the same manner as the Chenopodium. Shepherd's Purse {Capsella bursapastoris).— An esculent plant in Philadelphia, brought in large quantities to market early in the season. When boiled it tastes not imlike cabbage, but is softer and milder than that vegetable. Sow Thistle {Sonchus oleraceus).—A hardy annual, and a well-known weed in rich garden and field soils. There are two varieties, a prickly and a smooth, both abounding in a milky, bitter juice. The tender tops of the smooth variety are in some countries boiled and used as greens, or mashed as spinach. Spotted Hawkweed {Sypochceris maculata). —^A perennial, the leaves of which are eaten as salad, and also boiled as greens. Stinging Nettle [Zfrtica dioica).—"This perennial, foimd in dry, rubbishy soils, and in hedges, is but seldom seen in places where the hand of man has not been at work, and may therefore be considered as a sort of domestic plant. Early in February the tops will be found to have pushed three or four inches, furnished with tender leaves; in Scotland, Poland, and Germany, these are gathered as a pot-herb for soups, or for dishes like spinach, and their peculiar flavour is by many much esteemed. No plant is better adapted for forcing; and in severe winters, when most of the Brassica tribe have been destroyed, it forms an excellent resource. Collect the creeping roots, and plant them either on a hot bed or in pots, to be placed in a forcing-house, and they will soon send up abundance of tender tops; these, if desired, may be blanched by covering with other pots. We have known the nettle forced by being planted close to the flue in a vinery, so as to produce excellent nettle kail and nettle spinach in the last week of January." Wild Rocket (Smjmbrimn officinale). —A common annual of a yellowish hue, from two to throe foot high. It is sometimes uaed as a pot-lierb. In salading the tender young leaves greatly resemble mustard in taste and flavour. Willow Heuh {Epilobivm anyustifolium).— The leaves are a wholesome green, and the young and tender shoots are eaten as a«paragu8. Wild Plants with Edible Roots, Arrowhead {Sagittaria myittifolia). — An aquatic perennial, the roots of which are said to be very Uke those of the West India arrow- root {Maranta arundinacea). They are sometimes dried and pounded, but are reported to possfiss an acrid, unpleasant taste, though this might, it is believed, be got rid of by washing the powder in water. Bitter Vetch or Mouse Pea {Orobus tu- berosus).—"The tubers are said to be chewed by the Scottish Highlanders as a substitute for tobacco. Boiled till a fork will pass through them, and dried slightly and roasted, they are served up in HoUand and Flanders in the maimer of chestnuts, which they resemble in flavour. Dickson recommends cultivating them in a bed or border of light rich soil paved at the depth of twentj' inches to prevent their roots from .running down. Plant the tubers six inches apart, and three inches below the surface. The second year some will be fit to gather, and by taking only the largest, the bed will continue producing for several years by adding some fresh compost every year." Common Arum {Arum maculatu/m).—^A com- mon plant in hedges and woods in loamy soils. It is very abundant in the island of Portland, where the roots used to be dug up by the country people, macerated and steeped. The powder so obtained was dried, and sent to London, where it was sold under the name of Portland Starch. Common Comfrey {Symphytum officinale).— This plant has tuberculated roots and succulent stems, both abounding in farinaceous matter. When it is cultivated and the stalks blanched, they are not only wholesome, but agreeable. Eap.th Nut {Bunium bulbocastanum). — A bulbous perennial. Its roots are eaten raw, and are considered a delicacy by some people. In Sweden they are highly esteemed, being made there an article of trade. Besides being eaten raw, the roots are sometimes stewed as chestnuts. Goat's Beard {Tragopoyon prafen^is).—The roots of this plant are thought to be equal to those of the Viper's Grass or Spanish Salsify {which see), if not superior. Marsh Clown's All-heal {Stachyspalustris). —A plant frequently met with in moist rich cornfields. It increases rapidly by means of its creeping roots, and forms on those, during the summer, a number of thickened, elongated, tuberous-looking buds, which are rich in a sweet farinaceous matter. \^Tien planted in a rich soil the roots become large and tender,, and furnish a delicacy in the winter season. Meadow Sweet {Spireea Filipcndula). — A perennial common is most meadows whore tho soil is boggy or inrlinod to peat. The tubers are ground and made into bread in Sweden.