HIC RIC ( 753 ) and serve sweet sauce, wino sauce, or custard with thcni. I^mc to boil, ono hour. Probable cost, Ud. each pudding. Sufficient for six puddings. Rice Snowballs (another way).—Boil six ounces of rioe in a quart of milk which has been sweetened and flavoured with lemon, almond, vanilla, or cinnamon, according to taste. When the rice is quite tender and has absorbed the milk, turn it out, and beat it well for a few minutes, then press it into small cups, which have been allowed to lie in cold water for some time. Let it remain until cold and stiff, and make a pint of custard flavoured in the same way as the rice. Before serving, turn the rice out of the small moulds upon a glass dish, pour the custard round them, and place upon the top of each ball a spoonful of bright-coloiu'cd jam— apricot and red-currant jam are very suitable. Tinao, about one hour to boil the rice. Pro- bable cost, exclusive of the custard, lOd. Suf- ficient for five or six persons. Rice Solid.—Beat a quarter of a pound of ground rice to a smooth paste with a little milk, and stir into it as much boiling milk -—or milk and cream if preferred—as will make the quantity up to a quart. Sweeten the mix- ture, and flavour with any acceptable fla- vouring. A spoonful of brandy will improve it. Simmer gently, and continue stiiTing all the time, until it leaves the saucepan. When done enough, let it cool a little, and pour it into a glass dish. Before serving lay upon it a pint of cream which has been whipped to foam. {See Cream, Whipped.) Time to boil the rice, half an hour. Probalsle cost, ex- clusive of the cream, 7d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Soufflee.—Prepare the rice as for Gateau de Riz {see llice, Gateau of), only keep the rice rather more limpid, and put in the whites of two more eggs; that is to saj', in a rice cake you put eight yolks and as many whites, whei-eas in a soufflee you put only six yolks and eight whites, and a little more butter to determine the soufflee. To flavour the soufflee, use either lemon-peel, vanilla, orange, orange- flower, noyeau, maraschino, coflEee, &c. Rice Soufflle (another way).—Wash six table-spoonfuls of rice, and throw it into quickly- boiling water for five minutes. Drain it, and put it into a clean saucepan with a quart of milk, a pinch of salt, four table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, and any flavouring that may be liked, such as orange, lemon, vanilla, cofEce, chocolate, orange-flower water, rose-water, or any liqueur. If the rice is not sweet enough to suit the palate, a little more may be added, but it should be remem- bered that the less sugar used the lighter will be the soufflee. Let the rice boil, put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer very slowly until it is tender and has absorbed the milk. Let it cool a little, then add, one at a time, the well- whisked yolks of six eggs. Warm and butter a Houfflee-dish or tin which the firoparation will half fill, or, failing these, use a deep pie-dish or thin earthenware basin. Whisk the whites of the eggB to a firm froth. Mix them lightly with the rice, and bake the soufflee at once after they are added. In order to ascertain whether the soufflee is sufficiently baked, run a straw into the centre of it. If it is set through- out, it is done enough. It should be baked in a quick oven. Sift sugar over the top, tie a hot napkin round the tin, and serve immediately. The success of a soufflee de- pends on the ingredients being well beaten, frothed, and mixed on their being put into the dish; on their being baked immediately after- wards; on the sufficient temperature of the oven; and on the rapid transfer of the soufflee from the oven to the dining-room. Time to bake, about twenty minutes. Probable cost. Is. lOd. Sufficient for six or seven persons. Rice Soufflee made with Ground Rice.—Mix three table-spoonfuls of ground rice to a smooth paste, add gradually as mucli more as will make the quantity up to one pint, and a pinch of butter about the size of a walnut, Stir the mixture over the fire for about a quarter of an hour, or until it thickens, then pour it out, and when it is a little cool add some sugar and any flavouring that may be liked. The less sugar used th(( lighter win be the soufflee. Add, one by one, the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, and just before the soufflee is put into the oven, stir in the whites of six eggs beaten to a firm froth. Proceed according to the directions given in the preceding recipe. Bake the soufflee in a brisk oven, and sex've as quicklj as possible after it is taken out. Time to bake, half an hour. Probable cost, if made with milk, Is. 3d. Sufficient for five or six persons. Rice Soup.—Take half a quarter of a pound of Carolina rice, picked clean, and washed in two or three diflterent waters tiU no smell or dirt remain. Blanch it in boiUng water, and drain it. Then take some ric;h broth, season it well, throw the rice in and let it boil, but not so as to be too much done, for then it breaks and does not look well. Rice Soup (a Danish recipe).—Take half a pound of rice, pick and scald it, then put it into five pints of boiling water. When it begins to thicken, add the peel of a lemon and a quarter of a pound of raisins. When the soup has boiled enough, beat up the yolks of four eggs in a gill of wine, the juice of two lemons, and white or brown sugar to taste, which stir lightly in. Enough for seven ijersons. Rice Soup, Cream of {see Cream of Rice Soup). Rice Soup, Italian.—Wash four ovmces of rice, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with two ounces of fresh butter, a cupful of stock, and a seasoning of salt and white pepper. Let it simmer gently until it is tender. Cut two large turnips into small pieces, and fry these in butter till they are lightly browned. " Drain the fat from them, and stew them in about a pint of stock. Add the boiled rice, and serve. Send two table-spoonfuls of grated Parniosan to table with the soup. Time, one hour and a half. Probable cost, exclusive of the stock, Dd. Sufficient for two or thi-ee persons.