( 692 ) BAB BAB livers, put plenty of butter over them, and bake gently. Keep thorn three or four days in tho pan after tlioy are done, then stow them liglitly into pots, covering; them with clarified butter. Tho remainder of the rabbits may bo used in any other way. Babbit Pudding.—Skin, empty, and •wash a rabbit, and cut it into ton or twelve pieces. ilako a little gravy by stewing tho hoad, the liver, and a little bacon rind in stock or water, and season this with sidt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Line a buttercHl basin with good suet crust. Lay in the pieces of rabbit (tirst seasoning each one separately, with a little popper, salt, and cayenne), and put with them three or four ounces of bacon cut into strips. Pour over them a tea-cupful of the stock, and be careful to let it cool before using it. Put the cover on the top, press the edges closely together, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth which has been wrung out of boiling water. Put it into fast-boiling water, and let it boil quickly until done enough. Time to boil, three hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit Pudding (another way).—Slcin, empty, and wash a rabbit, and cut it into ten or twelve pieces. Put these intb a stewpan -with a little pepper and salt and half a blade of mace. Poui- over them as much boiling water as will cover them, and let them simmer very gently for half an hour. Take them up, and nut in their place the head and liver of the rabbit, with a little bacon rind if it is at hand, and simmer for an hour, till the gravy is strong and pleasantly flavoured. Strain and skim it, and put it aside to cool. Line the edges of a pie-dish with suet crust. Put in the pieces of rabbit, together with four oimces of fat bacon cut into narrow strips, pour in a cupful of the cooled gravy, lay on the cover, press the edges closely together^ tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and let it boil quickly until sufficiently done. Some cooks parboil and mince the liver, mix it with the brains, season the mixture rather highly with salt and cayenne, and sprinkle it over the meat in the pudding. Time to boil, two hours. Probable cost, 3s. Sufficient for five or six persons. Babbit, Pupton of,—Take enough rich forcemeat, roll it out, and lay it in a buttered tin dish. Cut slices of bacon exceedingly thin, and place them over the forcemeat. Then take a rabbit, cut it up, season highly, and lay it in the dish, strewing asparagus tops, mushrooms, oysters, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs; over this lay some more slices of bacon, and on the top place a layer of forcemeat. Bake for an hour in a rather slow oven. When ready, turn the pupton of rabbit into another dish, and pour sauce over it if it is to be sent hot to table. It is quite as good eaten cold. Babbit, Quenelles of.—Cut the meat from a rabbit, free it from skm and sme%y, scrape it with a knife, pound it, and rub it through a wire siovo. Soak the crumb of two French rolls in lukewarm watpr, and when it-is quite soft squeeze it dry in a cloth. Chop three or four mushrooms till small, and put thc?m in a clean saucepan ^vith a shoe of butter, half a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-rind, hiilf a shallot finely minced, a pinch of powdered thyjiie, a tea-spoonful of diopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Let these steam gently for three or four minutes, mix with them the soaked bread, and stir the mixture over the fire till it ceases to adhere to the stewpan and forms a smooth paste. Place the ingredients in a mortar in tho following proportions :—Six ounces of tho jtoundod rabrjit to three ounces of butter and four ounces of panada. Pound all thoroughly for several minutes, and add a table-spoonful of white sauce, two whole eggs, and the yolk of one. liub the mixture again through a sieve, taste in order to ascertain if it requires further seasoning, and put it on ice or in a cool place. When wanted form the quenelles according to tho directions already given {see Quenelles, To Form), throw them into boiling water, and poach them till the force- meat is set. Serve hot with white sauce or mushroom sauce poured round them. Time to poach the quenelles, about ten minutes. Probable cost of rabbit, 7d. to 9d. per pound. Babbit, Quenelles of (another way).— "These," says M. Ude, "are made like the generality of quenelles; the only difference is that you take the flesh of rabbits instead of any other meat. The legs in general are used for making the quenelles; the fillets wiU supply another dish, so will the legs occasionally. The bones and the parings are used to liiako the consomme and sauces. As the legs are tougher than the tender fillets, they should be pounded for a longer time and rubbed through a tammy, on account of the nerves and sinews." Babbit, Quenelles of (another way).-— See Quenelles of Kabbit. Babbit, BagOUt of.—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and in this fry three moderate-sized onions cut into shces. Lift these out as they brown, mix three tea- spoonfuls of flour smoothly with the butter, and moisten the mixture very gradually with as much stock or water as wiU make it of the consistency of thick cream. Skin, empty, and wash a young rabbit. Cut it into small neat joints, and lay it in the sauce with five or six rashers of bacon, a bay-leaf, a shce of lemon, and a little pepper and salt. Simmer all gently together till the rabbit is tender. Lay tho pieces on a dish, strain tho sauce over them, and serve very hot. A glassful of wine may be added to the sauce or not. Time, from an hour and a half to two hours to simmer the rabbit. Probable cost, 3s., exclusive of wine. Sufficient for four or five persons. Babbit, Bagoiit of (another ^ay)— Skin, empty, and wash a plump young rabbit, cut it up into ton or twelve pieces, and lay it in a saucepan ^vith a dozen button mushrooms, half a dozen small onions, a b\mch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-loaf. Pour over these ingredients as much ])0iling stock or water as will cover them, and lot them simmer very gently until the rabbit is tender. Lift