SOL ( S90 ) gills, and with a sliarp knifo mako four gashes right across it on both sidos. Rub into thoso a littlo salt and chopped onion ; dip the sole in flour, !md bnjil it over a clear but gcjutlu fire. Ljiy it on a hot dish, rub it well on both sides witli a slice of fresh butter which has been mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little caycime, put it in a brisk oven for a minute or two, and servo very hot. Time, ten to fifteen minutes, according to thickness. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. Sufficient for three or four persons. Sole (a la Miromcsnil).—Take three soles, scale them on both sides, and empty them iui;ely without injuring the flesh. Make an incision on the black side. Fry them without dipping them into flour. When they are done, drain them on a clean cloth, open the place whore you have made the incision, cut the bone near the head and tail, and draw it out. Let the fish cool. Make a steward's sauce cold; that is to say, mix a lump of butter with some parsley chopped very fine, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Divide the butter into three equal parts, and put one part into the opening of each sole; close the opening, and make the whole stick by means of the yolk of an egg; put a few crumbs of bread at the joint. iJeat two eggs, then dip the soles into them, and next into crumbs of bread, equally on all sides. When dinner-time is come, fry the soles in hot dripping. They are done as soon' as they are coloured. The sauce is found in the sole itself. This is what we call in France an entree bourgeoise — a city dish. Sole (an Gratin).—This dish is much liked, but as only one sole can be cooked at a time, the guests should not exceed four, unless the fish be a large one. The French have an oblong inetal dish, mostly in silver, for the purpose, so that the sole may be served in the dish in which it is cooked. Grease the bottom of the dish with butter to prevent the fish sticking, chop some parsley and a shallot, spread lightly, add some salt and pepper, a little wine or brandy, lay the sole upon it, spread over the same things on the top of the sole, and some lumps of butter, with some button mushrooms, or a table-spoonful of ketchup and a little of any gravy that may be at hand; rasp over some bread-crumbs, and cook the fish gently in the oven. Time, from ten to fifteen minutes, ac- cording to the thickness. Sole (au Gratin—another way).—Prepare and wash the soles as in the recipe Soles with Water Souchet, and rub the dish with a little butter; spread over it parsley, shallot, and mushroom (each chopped), salt, pepper, «fec.; lay the soles over tliis, and on the top of them spread some fine raspings of crust of bread, and parsley chopped, &c., as tmder. Put several small bits of butter over the soles, a glassful of white wine, a tea-spoonful of each of the following articles—essence of anchovies, cavice, chilli vinegar, and Harvej^'s Sauce: and when the soles have been in the oven ten minutes or more, mix with the spoon the sauce that you baste the fish with. Mind, the sauce must be short, as it is called au gralin. This is a very palatable dish. Sole, Baked.—Take a thick and ve ry fresh sole, scale, skin, and trim it, wipe it dry with a soft cloth, and if convenient lot it lie folded in thia in a cool place for an hour or more before dressing. Season lightly with salt and pepjior, flour well, and, if liked, egg and bread-crumb the sole twice. Lay it in a buttered baking-dish, put little pieces of butter here and there upon it, and bake in a moderate oven. Shako the dish occasionally to keep the fish from sticking to the bottom. When done enough, lay it on a reversed sieve before the fire for a few minutes to drain the fat from it. Put it on a hot dish, covered with a nap- kin, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send melted butter flavoured with anchovy sauce and chilli vinegar to table in a tureen; or make sauce by mixing the gi-avy which flows from the fish with a little lemon-juice, a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies, and a spoonful of stock. A glassful of wine is sometimes added to sauce thus made, but it is scarcely necessary. If more than one sole is to be baked, it should be remembered that they must be done in single layers, that is, they must not be laid one upon the top of another. Time to bake the sole, ten to fifteen minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per pair. Suffi- cient, one good-sized sole for three persons. Sole, Baked (au Gratin).—Choose a thick sole as fresh as possible. Cleanse it, remove the gills, scale it, and strip off the dark skin by cutting it at the tail end and drawing it over the head. Wash it well, and wipe it dry; trim away the fins, and with a sharp knife make an incision a quarter of an inch deep down each side of the back-bone on the skinned side. Butter a baking-dish rather thickly, and lay the sole in it. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, and a few fine bread-raspings, and add about a dozen mushrooms chopped small, a small handful of picked, washed, and chopped parsley-leaves, and one finely-minced shallot. Cover the surface of the sole thickly with fine raspings, and moisten the fish with a glassful of French white wine, a tea-spoonful of anchovy essence, and a table-spoonful of mushroom-juice or ketchup. Put the dish in the oven till the sole is done enough. If the dish in which the fish was baked is suitable, serve the fish in it; if not, lift the fish carefully with a fish slice, lay it on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Another table-spoonful of wine may be added to the sauce. If the surface of the fish is not sufficiently coloitred, a salamander or red-hot shovel may be held over it for a few minutes. When expense is a consideration, a glassful of cider or poiTy will be found an excellent sub- stitute for the light wine. Time to bake, ten to fifteen minutes, according to the size of the sole. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. for a good- sized sole. Sufficient for three persons. Sole, Baked (en Matelote Normande).— This dish very much resembles Sole, Nor- mande proper. Prepare a stuffing as follows: —Mince finely and separately a dozen mush- rooms, a small handful of picked and washed parsley-leaves, and one shallot. Mix those in- gredients together, put them into a saucepan, and fry them with two ounces of fresh buttc r,