TIG PIE (( 530 ) pwvRi Bebit !■ ' OiiivK, Vkai, .Oystbii 'Pate de Gikieu PiciKON (a r Angliiitt) Pll CUAllU ANP LkEK PoilK PouK. AND Apple PpTATO Potato (with Sausage Moat) JtAHHIT Uaisej) .Khuharr POOK Snm'es, Potted .Smi'k»i, Raibed Pie .S014E 8(n;A|t Tench , Veal and Ham Veal and Ovsteu Veal and Sweet- buead Veal, Solid Vboetahle Venison Pastut Woodcock yorkshiiie. Pies, Common Crust for Raised (see Crust, Common, &c). Pies, Dripping Crust for Kitchen i(iee Crust, Dripping), Pies, Extraordinary.—A favourite dish at the teibles of oui- forefathers was a pie of stupendous magnitude, out of which, on its being opened, a flock of Uving birds flew forth, to the no small surprise and amusement of the guests. This was a common j oke at an old English feast. • These animated pies were often intro- duced " to set on," as Hamlet says, *' a quantity of baiTen Spectators to laugh." There is an instance of a dwarf undergoing such an incrustation. About the year 1630, King Charles and his Queen were entertained by the Duke and Duchess of Buckingham, at Burleigh on the Hill, on which occasion Jeffery Hudson, the dwarf,, was served up in a cold pie.—I)r. Kitchener. ■ Pies, Meat, Jelly for.—Break up two pounds of the knuckle of veal, and put them into a stewpan with the knuckle-bone of a ham, or, failing this, half a pound of raw lean ham. Pour.Qvesr.the^n three pints of cold water, and add a carrot, an onion, half a bay-leaf, three or four sticks of Qclery, a handful of parsley, a small" sprig pf thjone, a blade of mace, two clov^s, a roll of lomon-rind, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of. cayenne, a lump of sugar, and six. peppercorns. Co^er the stewpan, and bring the contents 4owIy to a boil. Remove the scum as at ri.s,es., dJ^aw the;pan to the side, and sipi- iner gently, .,)3ut continuously, for five hours. Strain the liquid through a jelly-bag, and let it stand until it is oold and stiff. .B,emove the fat, by first scraping it off with a spoon, and after- w(ird3 pouring a little hot water over the sur- face, draining it ofi: immediately, and thei: wiping off the moisture with a dry napkin. If the jelly has been gently boiled it should not need to be clarified.. If, however, it is not quite clear and bright, dissolve it over a gentle fire, and when it is melted, without being hot, mix with it the white of an egg which has been well whisked, with half a tea-cupful of water, and add the crushed shell of the egg, a dessert- spoonful of tarragon A-incgar, and a glassful of shoify. Put the pan on the fire, and stir it briskly until it .begins to boil; then draw it to the side, put on the 'tover, and let it simmer, with being touched, for a quarter of an hour. Strain it again through a jelly-bag, and when cold it is. ready for use. The bones, necks, and feet of fowlH, or the shuuk-bones of u k-g of mutton, if boiled down carefully wit}i an ox-lxwl or a calf's foot, will makie good meat jelly. Probable cost, 28. 8d. SuHicient for three pints of jolly. Pies, Meat, Jelly for (Econoniical and quickly made).—Put an ounce of gelatine into a cup with as mudi cold water as will cover it, and let it soak for half an hour. Put a pint and a half of good stock, quite free from fat^ into a stewpan with a sprig of thj-me, a bay- leaf, five or six shallots, half a blade of mace, six cloves, an onion, and a little pepi^er and salt. Bring the gravy gently to the boil; cool itj stir the gelatine into it, and continue Stirling until it is dissolved. Let the gi'avy cool; mix with it the whites and ci'ushcd shells of two eggs which have been beaten up with a cupful of cold water. Stir them into the stock, whisk all together until the liquid is on the point of boil- ing, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for ten minutes. Pass the gravy through a jolly-bag, and it will be fit for use. If the stock is already nicely flavoured, the flavouring in- gredients need not be added. A dessert-spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar and half a glassful of sherrj' may be stirred in, with the whites of the eggs, if approved. The jelly will become stiff more quickly if it is poured out on a large dish. Time, one hour to make. Probable cost, exclusive of stock. Is. Sufficient for a quart of jelly. Pies, Paste for [see Paste for Common Pie^, Paste for Kaised Pies, &c.). : Pig Harslet {see Harslet, Pig's). Pig, Roast, Forcemeat for {see Force- meat for Eoast Pig). Pig, Sectional Diagram of Bacon {sec the illustration accompanying the article Bacon, To Cut up a Pig for). Pig, Sucking.—Sucking pigs are in season all the year round, though they are to be preferred in cold weather, and are at their SUCKrSG PIO. ' best from the middle of November to the end of i December. To be eaten in perfection thov should not be more than three wcclcs old, and should be rooked as soon as possible after they are kiUod, as thev deteriorate m quahty i every liour that they arc kept. Suckmg-pig, is \ fattened with milk and whey, with the