ON THE: HYDROCELE, &C. The truth is, that the majority both of the' ancient writers and praditioners, mifled by the. found of the term hydrocele^ have mif- taken a mere accidental eifed for a caufe; and '5 ties vafa, feminalia, non infigniter tantum induruerunt, " Ted magnis quoque cruciatibus hom'inem fegrum affligunt. " Defpiciendum quoque porro elt num tefticulus tumefadlus " forte materiam aliquam fluidam, ficut quaudoque contingit, f * intus contineat. Si quid enim fluidi intus ha^rere taftu perci- *• pimus, aut lympham, aut pus inibi confiftere reftiffime colli- " gimus. Interim neque tunc refcindere continue, (ut nonnulli " lent) fed incidere potius, atque expurgare teiticulum ilium " conveniet, &c. Sed fi forte fimul nimis jam tunc induratus, " vel corruptus idem inveniatur, predida ratione, ligandus & refecandus, ne in carcinoma forte abeat." That fuch ftate of the fpermatic velfels andtefticle do occur, is beyond all doubt; but not in the fimple hydrocele; not in the hydrocele that any rational pradtitionercan poflibly deem fit for the attempt for the radical cure by incifion. Neither Is it poffi - ble for a man, who underftands the difeafe at all, not to be ac- quainted with thefe circumftances before-he attempts fuch oper- ation ; and if he is previoufly acquainted with them, he muft be a very extraordinary man indeed to fet about relieving them in j[uch a manner. If the ftate of the telHcle and its vefTels be fuch as to require caftration (a thing always capable of being known beforehand) let that operation at once be performed, in a proper and expeditious manner, and not. by piece-meal, as'it is herede- fcrlbed. If caftration be not requifite, neither can any other part of the operation (with regard to the tefticlc) be foj for notwitli- ftanding thefe defcriptions of incifions into, and expurgations of difcafed tefticles may make a figure in books, they are very unfit to be introduced into_ praftice. They never can do good, they muft do unwarrantable, and generally irremediable mifchicf. Vol,. II.- T have \