AN ENTIRELY NEW AND ORIGINAL COOKERY BOOK. HILDA’S ‘WHERE IS IT?’ OF RECIPES. Containing many old CAPE, INDIAN, and MALAY DISHES, and PRESERVES ; also directions for Polishing Furniture, Cleaning Silk, &c.; and a Collection of Home Remedies in Case of Sickness. By Hildagonda J. Duckitt. THIRD THOUSAND. Interleaved with White Paper for adding Recipes. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. The Morning Post says:—“‘Hilda’s “Where is it?” of Recipes’ may be recom' mended as containing clear directions for the preparation of many delicacies for the table. The recipes include Cape, Indian and Malay dishes and preserves, some of which are as good as they are rare. Space has also been found for other matters besides eatables, and the possessors of this small volume will find themselves pro- vided with directions for polishing furniture, cleaning materials, and administering homely remedies to the sick.” The Princess says :—“ A book of novel arrangement. . . . There are instructions in this book that, I suppose, it would be a thousand chances one would ever meet else- where, some of them as old as a century, and it should certainly be added to the collections of every housewife.” The Saturday Review says :—“ A capital book ... a most interesting collec- tion. . . . much is new, and what is not is often newly put.” Vanity Fair says :—“ The author lives at the Cape, and has collected from various sources—the majority of them the archives of her own family—valuable old recipes, owned and practised by the Malay, Indian, and French cooks, whom it was the custom of Cape families of Dutch descent to employ. Attached to the book is a pencil, intended to do duty on the blank pages left for the purpose of memoranda wx-iting, where recipes from other sources may be committed to paper.” FOURTH EDITION. THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY AND BILLS OF FARE. By Major L* **■**. Large Crown 8vo, 8s. “ The author has done his work in the proper way. He begins on the right prin- ciple by giving a gross of bills of fare. They supply an aim, and his introductions and general rules are written with an energy which can hardly fail to inspire the indis- pensable enthusiasm. . . . The great merit of Major L ’s recipes is, that among the five hundred and fifty-four that he gives, a vei-y large pi'oportion are really possible for small households.”—Pall Mall Gazette. “ The author has ari-anged his volume with evident care, and a number of menus suitable for each month of the year are given in French and English. They are dis- tinguished by variety and economy, and are manifestly the compilation of one who knows well how to appreciate a good dinner well served. . . . The volume cannot fail to prove of service to all who care to live well, and at the same time to study reasonable economy.”—Society. “This is a volume which will be found particularly useful during the approaching hunting season, and to those who are in the habit of giving hunt breakfasts or similar parties it will be invaluable. The author deals with the subject of cookery in a lucid and exhaustive manner, a special featui-e in the publication being a collection of * bills of fare,’ which comprises twelve for each month of the year. ‘ Wines and their service ’ are also dealt with.”—Sportsman. “ ‘ The Pytchley Book of Refined Cookery and Bills of Fare,’ by Major L., is evi- dently the production of a man who has studied the gastronomic art with great interest. The book opens with a number of menus in French and in English, twelve for each month, and then goes on to give, shortly and clearly, the recipes for cooking the dishes which have been set out; and it leaves nothing to be desired. It is hand- somely got up, and beyond doubt will have a considerable popularity.”—Scotsman. “ Contains a large number of excellent menus and a good deal of valuable advice."— Athenatum. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited,