DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 462 and nil artery. Throe inguinal foss«!: exteiniil, internal, and middle. Situation of femoral hernia. Dissection of the parts concemed. Divide wall, detach peritoneum and fat, and clean iliac vessels. Anatomy of the structure.''. near Poupart's ligament, is a ](-.s8 marked prominence of tlie perito- neum caused by the epigastric artery. Fossce. Witli this disposition of the cords, three hollows {inguinal fossce) are seen near Poupart's ligament, one internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, another outside the epigastiic ai'tery, and the third between the two prominences. The external fossa correspond* by its lower and inner part to the internal abdominal ring, opposii- which there is often a slight depression of the peritoneum, and i.s the place where an external inguinal hernia begins to protrude. The internal fossa is between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the urachus ; its outer part is opposite the external abdominal rin;,', and is the seat of the commoner (inferior) variety of internal hernia. The middle fossa is the smallest, and is placed behind the inguinal canal; in it the superior variety of internal hernia leaves the abdo- minal cavity. In some bodies the obliterated hypogastric artery is close to, or behind, the epigastiic artery ; and in that case the middle fossa will be w^anting. Femoral Hernia. In this hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen beloAV Poupart's ligament, and descends in the membranous sheatli around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be new seen ; the rest are noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh (p. 606). Dissection. The dissection for femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the body. The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the pubis, the cut being made on the left side of the urachus, and care being taken not to injure the bladder, whicli may project above the pubic bones. The peritoneimi is to be de- tached from the inner surface of the flap, and from the iHac fossa. The layer of subperitoneal fatty tissue is to be separated in the same way, and in doing this the spermatic vessels and vas deferens wiU come into view as they meet at the internal abdominal ring to form the spermatic cord. Beneath these the external iliac vessels are to be cleaned, with some lymphatic glands lying along them, and the genito-crural nerve on the artery. (In the female the round liga- ment of the uterus is seen entering the internal abdominal ring round the epigastric artery; and the ovaiian vessels cross the external iliac trunks higher up.) Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to show the beginning of the crural sheath around the femoral vessels, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (fig. 143). Afterwards the transversalis and iliac fasciae are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the formation, of the crural sheath. Anatomy op femoral hernia. The membranes concemed ia femoral hemia are the peritoneum, the subperitoni'al fatty layer, the transversalis and iliac fasciro lining the interior of tl:e abdominal cavity, with the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they give origin at Poupart's ligament.