533 QUADRATUS LUMBORUM MUSCLE. liip-joint. The inner margin is overlaiDped by the psoas ; and the anterior crural nerve lies between the two. The relations of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the dissection of the thigh (p. 629). Action. The iliacus raises the femur with the psoas when the use to ^i^end limb is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the limb is • fixed. The psoas and iliacus may be regarded as two heads of one muscle—the ilio-psoas. The QUADRATUS LUMBORUM (fig. 166, g) is a short, flattened Quadratus muscle between the pelvis and the last nb. About two mches wide . below, it arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest beliind, and an inch outside that band ; it generally receives in addition tAvo or three slips from the transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebrtc. The fibres ascend to be inserted by insertion; distinct fleshy and tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the uj)per four lumbar vertebrae, and into the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from tlie fascia is contained lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, ^ ^ '' together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Behind the quadratus is the erector spinse muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle antago- use of both nising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of the spine of one. to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus is Fascia of the a thin membrane, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis of ^"*<^^tus. the transversalis abdominis (fascia hmiborum ; p. 386) ; it passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above.. A thickened band of this fascia forms the external arched ligament, to which the diaphragm is connected (p. 524). Fascia of the iliacus and psoas. A fascia covers the double flexor Uiac fascia of the hip-joint, and is fixed to the bone on each side of the muscle. The membrane is strongest opposite the pelvis, where it is attached attachments to the iliac crest on the outer side, and to the brim of the cavity on 'J'^io^^i the inner side : it receives a strong accession from the tendon of the psoas parvus when that muscle is present. Over the upper part of and above, the psoas it liecomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebraD; while on the other it is Idended with the fascia over the quadratus ; and above, it joins the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part tliat it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been before explained (p. 463). , Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands Trace tlie lying along the vertebrae, and to trace upwards some lymphatic iy'npi>itics, vessels to the thoracic duct.