DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 502 it is hollow, Dry the cfpcuin, ami open it to see the valve. Situation of the valve ; two pieces in it. One ileo- colic ; the other ileo-C£ecal; these are joined at the ends, and fonn frana. Opening in the valve. The valve a prolongation of the wall of the gut. Appendix opens into ctecura. Ridges in the csecum; how fomied. Pour strata in the wall of the gut. Seroxis coat differs along the intes- tine. Two layers of fleshy fibres : toneum. Its hollow lias an ajierture of communication with the intestine (d). In structure it rctjemUes the rest of the colon. Disscctim. To examine the interior of the caecum, and the valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen should be dried, and the following cuts should be made in it:—One oval piece is to be taken from the upper aspect of the ileum near its termination ; and another from the side of the caecum, opj^osite the entrance of the small intestine. Ileo-ccecal valve (fig. 156). This valve is situate at the entrance of the ileum into the large bowel. It is composed of two pieces, which project into the interior of the colon, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of communication between the two parts of the intestinal canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo-colic (e), projects horizontally into the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum -mth the colon. And the lower piece, ileo-ccecal (/), which is the larger of the two, has a nearly vertical direction between the ileum and the caecum. At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together ; and the resulting prominence {g) extends transversely on the front and back of the intestine, forming the frcena or retinacula of the valve. The size of the oj)ening is altered by the distension of the intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the folds bounding the aperture are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by circular muscular fibres of the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane and submucous tissue ; as if the ileum were thrust obliquely through the wall of the ctecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and the layer of longitudinal fibres. Tliis construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and gently drawing out the ileum from the caecum. The opening of the appendix into the cascum {d) is placed below that of the ileum. The mucous membrane partly closes the aperture and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut,, and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels. Structure op the colon. to those of the small intestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, throughout, in tlie same degree. It usually surrounds the cascuni, but covers only the front and sides of the ascending and descending colon (p. 477^. The transverse colon is encased like the stomach, and has intervals along the borders, where the transverse meso-cololi and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed of longitudinal and circular fibres, as in the small intestine. The coats of the large are similar