193 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. reduced to a narrow strip along the bottom of the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. The olivary body is oval in shape and about half an inch long. Its upper end, Avhich is more prominent than the lower, does not (piite reach the pons. Internally Olive. it is separated from the anterior ^^S- 55. pyramid by a narrow groove along ^\^hich the hypoglossal nerve arises ; and externally from the restiform body by a broader one, where the glosso- pharyngeal and vagus nerves issue. The funiculus of Rolando be- gins in a pointed extremity at the lower end of the medulla oblongata, and enlarging upwards forms, on a level with the lower end of the olivary bcjdy, a slight prominence known as the tubercle of Rolando. Towards the front this funiculus is separated from the lateral tract by the con- tinuation upwards of the lateral groove of the cord; but pos- teriorly the line of separation from the cuneate funiculus is often indistinct. The funiculus and tubercle of Rolando are better marked in the child, and the tubercle has then a greyish colour, whence the name tuberculum cinereum is also given to it. The funiculus cuneatus is the prolongation of the posterior column of the cord, and forms a swelling—tuberculum cuneatum (fig. 55, c(), opposite the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle. The restiform body is the largest of the prominences of the medulla oblongata, and appears to be the continuation of the funiculus of Rolando and the fimiculus cuneatus. It inclines outwards above, and enters the hemisphere of the cerebellum, of which it constitutes the inferior peduncle. On the back of the medulla, the inner margin of this body forms the lateral boundary of the lower part of the fourth ventricle. The funiculus gracilis (posterior pyramid) lies by the side of the posterior median fissure, and is the smallest of the pai-ts of the medulla oblongata. It ends above in an enlargement termed the clava (tig. 55, ci), which bounds the lower point of the fourth ventricle. Funiculus and tubercle of Rolando. Cuneate funiculus and tubercle. Kestiforni body. Slender funiculus and clava. Med .Ila oblongata and pons from behind, fg. Funiculus gracilis, cl. Clav;i. fc. Funiculus cuneatus. ct. Cuneate tubercle. R. Funiculus of Rolando.- r/;. llestiforin body, a .v<. Auditory striie. /«. Fasci;ulus teres. 0