DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Branches to muscles ol' the thigli join freely. The named branches ai-c :— External circumflex. Internal circumflex ends on back of thigh, supplies hip- ioint and muscles. placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its termination Ijetween the adductoia longus and niagnus. Its branches are numerous to the sm-rounding muscles on the front and back of the thigh, and maintain free anastomoses with other vessels of the thigh (p. 653) ; through tliese coinmunications the blood finds its way to the lower part of the liml) when the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named branches are these :— a. The external circumflex artery (fig. 193, e) has been described in the dissection of the parts on the front of the thigh (p. 621). b. The internal circumflex artery (fig. 193, d) arises from the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the adductor brevis. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in two branches, which wiU be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 643). It supplies the undermen- tioned offsets to the inner side of the thigh :— An articular artery enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular brandies -one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor Three perfo- rating branches: first; second; third ; and the ending is a fourth. Anastomotic branches. Profunda vein. Cut through adductor brevis. arise ;- muscles ; the other, which is larger, descends with the deep piece of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. c. The perforating arteries, three in munber, pierce the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea aspera of the femur : they supply muscles on the back of the thigh, and wind round the bone to end in the vastus extemus and crureus (p. 653). The first (/) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The second (g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding. The third (h) springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. From the second or third perforating vessel a m,edxillary artery is supplied to the femur. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces the addiictor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. d. Muscular or anastomotic branches (i) to the back of the thigh (three or four in number) pass through the adductor magnus at some distance from the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the hamstrings (p. 653). The PROFUNDA VEIN resultsfrom the union of the different branches corresponding with the offsets of its companion artery. It accom- panies closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., ad- ductor magnus, obturator extemus, and the insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through near tlie pehas, and to be thrown down. Then the investing layer of fascia and areolar tissue is to be removed from each muscle.