317 MOVEMENTS OF SHOULDER-JOINT. ■wards and forwards away from the body; and in adduction, it is brought downwards to the side. Tliese movements, like the fore- going, are accompanied, and their range is increased by rotation of the scapula. When the limb is abducted, the head of the humerus glides Abduction, downwards in the glenoid cavity, and projects beyond it against the lower part of the capsule, which is stretched ; wliile the great tuberosity sinks beneath the acromial arch, which sets a limit to the movement. In this condition a little more movement do'wn. of the head, either by muscles depressing it or by force elevating the farther end of the bone, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction, the head of the humerus rises in the socket, and Adduction, the coraco-humeral ligament being tightened checks the movement. In circumduction, the humerus passes in succession through the Circum- four different states above mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, the apex of which is at the shoulder and the base at the digits. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory movement, viz., in and Rotation: out; and in each the humerus revolves around an axis passing from the centre of the head through the shaft to the lower end of the bone. In rotation in, the great tuberosity moves forwards and inwards, in, and the head of the bone rolls backwards in the glenoid cavity, and the hinder part of the capsule is rendered tense. In rotation out, the out. movements of the parts of the humerus are reversed, and the front of the capsule is stretched. The movements are stopped by the tightening of the capsule, assisted by the muscles on the back and front of the joint respectively. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of Dissection the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away from the j°oint? ' front, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles con- nected with the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus digitorum, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments—anterior, posterior, and two lateral—will come into view. The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both siirfaces. The Elbow-Joint (fig. 94). In this articulation the lower end Bones of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to d£-foillt. produce a hinge-like arrangement ; and the upper end of the radius assists to form the outer part of the joint. Where the bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage; and they are united by the following ligaments :— The external lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, which is External attached by one end to a depression below the outer condyle of the IfgamLt. humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament round tlie head of the radius. A few of the posterior filn-es pass l)ackwards to the external margin of the olecranon. The internal lateral liyainent is triangular in shape. It is pointed intrmal at Its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner condyle of the 'ngSnt.