718 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. and before ending in fi'ont; outer nnd inner sur- faces thickness; circular sinus ; composed of fibrous tissue; vessels and nerves. Cornea: extent and size ; form: thickness; surfaces; condition after death. It consists of laminar fibrous tissue, with conjunctiva in front, and an elastic membrane behind ; no vessels ; many nerves. the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves ai'e situate around tlie optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and the centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is continuous with the transparent cornea. On the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached ; on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour, with flocculi of fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to tlie next coat, and with the ends of rupturotl vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Towards the junction with the cornea it is again somewhat thickened. In its substance, near the union with the cornea, is a small flattened venous space, the canal of Schlemm (sinus circularis iridis; fig. 223, r). Htrudure. The sclerotic consists of bundles of white fibrous tissue, which interlace with one another, but run for the most jjart longi- tudinally and transversely. Its vessels are very scanty. Minute filaments of the ciliary nerves have been described, entering the deep surface of the membrane. CoR^TEA (fig. 223, cl). This firm transparent membrane forms about one-sixth of the eyeball, and measures about half an inch across. Its shape is circular, though when viewed from the front it appears larger in the transverse direction, in consequence of the opaque sclerotic structure encrpaching farther on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex in front, and concave behind ; and its thickness is nearly uniform (from -^th. to -g^th of an inch), except near the cir- cumference, where it is somewhat thicker at the junction with the sclerotic. The anterior surface of the cornea is slightly less exten- sive than the posterior, owing to its being overlaj)ped hj the sclerotic. Supported by the aqueous humour, it is tense and nearly spherical diu'ing life ; but its radius of curvature varies in different indi-s'iduaLs, and in the same person at difi'erent ages, being shorter in the young. After death it becomes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour ; or if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered opaque by infiltration of the tissue by that fluid. Structure. The substance of the cornea is composed of a special kind of connective tissue, arranged in irregular layers. Over the front the conjunctiva (which is here reduced to its epithelium) is continued ; and covering the back of the cornea proper is a very thin elastic stratum known as the membrane of Descemet. The latter may be peeled ofi", after a cut has been made through it, in shreds which curl up with the attached surface innermost. At the circumference of the cornea the membrane of Descemet breaks nji into processes (pillars of the iris or ligamentum pecthiatmn iridis) which are partly reflected on to the front of the iris, and partly join the sclerotic and choroid coats. In the healthy condition the blood-vessels do not permeate the cornea, but cease in capillary loops at the circumference. Numei-oiis fine branches of the ciliary nerves ramify in its substance.