CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of the eyeball; .surronudiiig .sheath. I'arts in IVont of it. Tlie dissec- tion to be made on tlie eye of the ox. Detach the muscles. Fonn of the ball. Position of optic nein e. Diameter. Coiuijosi- tion ; number of coats, and central 1 larts. Dissection. The eyeball is the organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit. Supported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is suiTOimded by muscles which impart movement to it; and a tliin memlnmie {tunica vaginalis oculi or capsule of Tenon) isolates the baU, so as to allow free movement. Two lids protect the eye from external injury, and regulate the amount of light admitted into the interior ; and the anterior or ex- posed sui'face is covered by a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). Directions. In the absence of specimens of the hmnan eye, the structure may be learnt on the eye of the pig or ox. Let the .stu- dent procrrre half a dozen eyes of the ox for the pui-pose of dissec- tion. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep plate, will be useful. Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and the outer sui-face of the external coat, the attachments of the diiferent muscles are to be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane h to be removed from the front. The hall of the eye (fig. 223) consists of two parts, which differ in aj)pearance, viz., an opaque posterior joortion, forming about five- sixths of the whole, and a smaller transparent piece (cornea) in fi'ont; these two parts are segments of different sized spheres, the anterior belonging to the smaller sj)here. To the back of the eye the optic nerve is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; and around it ciliary vessels and nerves enter. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts to nearly an inch (-|-g^ths), but the transverse measures an inch. The organ of vision is composed of central transparent parts, Avith enclosing membranes or coats. The coats, placed one within another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection. To obtain a general idea of the structui'es to be dis- sected, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly : he will then be able to recognise the an-aiigement of tlie parts mentioned above, with their strength and appearance, and will be better prepared to follow the directions that are after- wards given.