DISSECTION OF THE J5ACK. H82 in llii' neck ; ill thorax and loins; sacral. Cutaneous nerves how derived. ] n the neck source. .Second and thii-d nerve. In the dor- sal region ; ujiper nerves ; lower nciTes. In the loins Two mus- cles in first liiyer. Dissection. (liflVrcnt parts of tlie Lack, and their number is also irregular: as a general rule, there is one opposite each vertebra except in the neck. To find them in the cervical region, look near the middle line, from the 3rd to the 6th vertebra, and trace an offset from the tliird nerve uj^wards to the head : the branch of the second nei-ve (great occipital) has been laid bare at the back of the liead (p. 5). Over the xipiier part of the thorax, they will be found near the spines of the vertebrse, -where they lie at first beneath the fat ; but at the ]oweY part, and in. the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves are included in the dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegunientary nerves are derived from the posterior jirimary branches of the sjjinal nerves, which divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompany the gi'eater number of the nerves, bifurcate like them^ and furnish cutaneous ofisets. Cervical nerves. In the neck the nerves are derived from the inner of the two branches into which the posterior trunks divide ; they ]3erforate the trapezius, and sujiply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, and come from the second, third, fourth, and fifth nerves. The hranch of the second nerve is named great occipital, and ac- companies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 8). The hranch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset to the neck, and then ascends to the lower jDart of the head, where it is distributed near the middle line, communicating with the great occipital nerve (p. 8). * Dorsal nerves. These are furnished by both the inner and outer branches—the upper six or seA^en from the inner, and the lower five oi' six from the outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the traj)ezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. The upper nerves perforate the trapezius near the spines of the vertebra; ; and the branch of the second, Avhich is larger than the rest, extends outwards over the scapula. The loiver nerves jjierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line Avith the angles of the ribs ; the number of the superficial offsets from these nerves often varies. * Lumbar nerves. In the loins the nerves are derived from tlie outer branches of the first three trunks ; they perforate the latissi- mus dorsi muscle at the outer border of the erector spinrc, and cross- ing the iliac crest of the hip-bone, are distributed in the integmnents of the buttock. •'• First Layer of Muscles (fig. 119). Two muscles, the trape- zius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. Dissection. The superficial fatty layer and the unimportant deej^ fascia are to be removed together from the trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and the upper limb is to lie carried back-