SYMI'ATIIETIC NERVE. 113 I .jists, on each side, of a gangliatetl cord, which lies close to the nervt in vertebral column, and is continued into the thorax. On this "'^'''^ portion of the nerve are three ganglia—the superior near the skull, l>as throe the middle towards the lower part of the neck, and the inferior close to the first rib. From the ganglia proceed connecting branches to the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck, and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in Otiier gang, the head and neck, where the sjanpathetic enters into connection nerve. ' ' ^vith the three divisions of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve Dissection requires greater care than is necessar}-- in tracing the white-fibred gangHon; nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prej)ared, and only the following additional dissection will be required to bring them into view :—The jugular vein having been cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the trunks of the vagus and hypo- glossal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop between the first and second spinal nerves. The several branches of the ganglion are to be traced upwards on the carotid arter}-^, inwards to the phar}Tix, down along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near of middle: the inferior thyroid artery; and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the and inferior first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut sangi'on. through, internal to the scalenus, and drawn aside, without however destroying the fine nerves that jJass over it. It is supposed that the clavicle has been removed. The ganglion is placed close above the neck of the first rib ; its branches are large, and are easily followed outwards to the vertebral arterj"- and the spinal nerves, and down- wards to the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GAKGLION is the largest of the three, and Superior is of a reddish-grey colour. Fusiform in shape, it is as long as near skuir the second and tliird cervical vertebrae, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and beueatli the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the pharynx, and the heart. Gonnedincj branches unite the sympathetic with both the spinal Connecting and the cranial nerves. branches With the spinal nerves. The four highest spinal nerves have with spinal branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- • pathetic ; but the offset to the fourth nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. With the cranial nerves. Near the skull the lower ganglion of the with cranial vagus and the hypoglossal nerve are joined by branches of the sym- pathetic. Another offset from the upper part of tlie ganglion