APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. 31 eye which is placed over the orbital arch of the frontal Lone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii muscles. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids (palpebrse) are two moveable semilunar folds in front Eyelids of the eye, which can be approached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the larger and more moveable, and descends below Upper the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named the palpebral fissure. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free border of each lid is somewhat thickened, and presents Shape of a narrow surface which meets the opposite lid when the aperture is ^^'^^sm- closed, and is bounded towards the eyeball by a sharp smooth edge; but at the inner end, for about a quarter of an inch from the commissiu-e, it is somewhat thinner and more rounded. At the spot where the two parts join is a small white eminence (fig. 13, Papilla. tiie papilla lachrymalis; and in this is the punctum lachrymale, or the Punctum. opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near Hairs and the posterior edge with a row of small openings of the Meibomian ^^^^^ glands : but both the cilia and the glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the punctum lachrymale. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of ciirved hau's, which Eyelashes, are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid; they are largest hi the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre to the sides. The cUia of the two lids are convex towards one another, and cross when the lids are shut. Structure of the Eyelids. Each lid consists fundamentally Different of a fibrous plate attached to the bone by ligaments. Superficial gyeMs" to this framework are the integuments with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it the mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid includes also the tendon of the levator palpebrse. Vessels and nerves are contained in the lids. Dissection. The student may examine the structure of the lids on Dissect lids, the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. The bit of tow or wool may remain beneath the lids; and the palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle is to be thro\vn inwards by an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the thin membranous palpebral ligament beneath, and of vessels and nerves of the lid. Orbicularis palpebrarum. The palpebral fibres of this muscle ^^y*"" ?^. form a pale layer which reaches the free edge of the eyelids (p. 23). A thin stratum of areolar issue without fat unites the muscle with the skin. The palpebral ligament or fascia is a thin fibrous layer, which is ^ fibrous continued from the margin of the orbit to join the anterior surface of the fibrous tarsal plate. At the inner part of the orbit the