232 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. consists of radiating, commis- sural, and collateral lilires. Dentate body: situation, and structure. Other grey masses. Superior peduncle : origin, and destination, Valve of Vieussens, ■covered by lingula. Middle peduncle. the vermiform jirocesses (fig. 65). The lateral jmrt contains the grey corijus dentatum, and is continued in front into a large stalk- like process, which Leconies divided into the three peduncles. From its surface, as already stated, offsets are furnished to the diflerent lobes and laminae. The white centre is composed mainly of the fibres of the peduncles radiating to the cortical grey matter ; but there are in addition, as in the cerebrum, commissural fibres between the two hemispheres, which are most developed at the fore part of the superior vermiform process, and at the back close to the median notch, as well as a system of association-fibres uniting the laminas beneath the sulci. The corpus dentatvm is situate in the inner part of the white mass of the hemisphere, and resembles the nucleus in the olivary body of the medulla oblongata. It measures about three-quarters of an inch from before back, and consists of a plicated capsule, which when cut across appears as a thin, wavy, greyish-yellow line : the bag is open at the fore and inner j^art, and encloses a core of white substance. Through its aperture issues a band of fibres to join the superior pedrmcle. Between the two dentate bodies, embedded in the central white matter, are some smaller portions of grey substance, the chief of wliich is an oval mass on each side, nearly half an inch long, lying close to the middle line in the fore part of the superior vermiform process, and known as the roof-nucleus from its relation to the fourth ventricle. Peduncles of the cerebellum (fig. 67). These are three in number on each side, an upper (^) passing to the cerebrum, a middle (^) to the pons, and an inferior (^) to the medulla oblongata. The superior peduncle (processus ad cerebnmi; fig. 65, I) is directed forwards, and disappears beneath the corpora quadrigemina. It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The processes of the two sides are united by the valve of Vieussens (A;). Its fibres are derived mainly from the interior of the dentate body, but a few are added from the white centre of the hemisphere and the worm. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the superior peduncle enters the tegmentum of the crus cerebri, and crosses the middle Hne decussating with the one of the opposite side. The fibres are then connected with the red nucleus (p. 202), and are continued with the longitudinal teg- mental fibres to the optic thalamus. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medidlary velum; is a thin translucent white layer which enters into the roof of the upper ]3art of the foiu'th ventricle (fig. 65, k). It is narrow in front, but widens behind, where it is continued into the medullary centre of the worm. On each side it joins the superior pedmicle. Near the lamina quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to the valve ; and its upper surface is covered by four or five small transverse grey ridges, constituting the lincjula (fig. 70). The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem ; fig. 70, mp), commonly named the crus cerebelli, is the largest of the three processes. Its