627 ABDOMINAL AORTA AND BRANCHES. The muscles are to be laid bare on the right side, but on the left Dissecj;^ _ side the fascia covering them is to be shown ; and the fat is to be cleared away from the kidney. The psoas muscle, the most internal, lies on the side of tlie spine, psoas and with the small psoas (if present) superficial to it. On its surface, iind in the fat external to it, the following branches of the lumbar plexus, plexus will be found :—The genito-crural nerve lies on the front. Four other nerves issue at the outer border,—the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower part. Along the inner border of the psoas the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and lower down the obturator nerve may be recognised entering the cavity of the pelvis. External to the psoas is the quadratus lumborum, iind crossins; the latter near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, mth an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle, and iliacus. which unites below with the large psoas. The ABDOMINAL AORTA (fig. 166, b) extends from the lower part ^^^Jq^u^^i of the last dorsal vertebra to about the middle of the body of the aorta, fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is placed opposite a spot below and slightly to the left of the umbilicus, and nearly on a level with the highest point of the iliac crest. The chief relations of the vessel to surrounding parts have been Relations Ijefore referred to (p. 484), but some deep vessels in connection Avith it now come into view. As the aorta rests on the spine it lies on the left lumbar veins, which end in the inferior cava. And yggggjlf®^ between it and the right crus of the diaphragm are the large az}-gos vein and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the lumbar lymphatic glands, from which large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoracic duct. The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following Pifice of^ order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which branches; leave the front of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single trunk of the coeliac axis arises from the front; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the front, the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery begins. Half an inch lower, the renal arteries, light and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the small capsu- lar branch; and below the renal is the slender spermatic artery. From the front of the arterial trunk, one or two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery. And from the back of the vessel arise five lumbar arteries on each side, and the middle sacral close above the bifurcation. The branches may be classified into two sets,—one to the viscera their classi- of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall (parietal). The .visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesen- s.imc viscoral bnnielics.