ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 607 anterior superior iliac spine : in this part Poupart's ligament is closely bound down to the muscle by its attachment to the iliac fascia. The inner half is occupied by the femoral vessels and their aheath, with the upper end of the pectineus muscle ; the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve issues on the outer side of the {irtery. Gimb&niat's ligament, or the piece of the tendon of the external Gimbernafs oblique muscle which is inserted into the pectineal line, is about ^'8*™®'^*- three-fourths of an inch in length, and is triangular in shape. Its apex is at the pubic spine ; while its base is in contact with the form and crural sheath, and is joined by the femoral ligament of the fascia lata. By one margin (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal. The crural sheath (fig. 189, b) is a loose tube of membrane Crural around the femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel, sloped un- ^^^^^^ '■ equally on the sides. The wide part of the tube is upwards ; and ^^^P® the narrow part ceases about two inches below Poupart's ligament, relations; by blending with the common areolar sheath of the blood-vessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve (^). Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by lymphatics, superficial vessels, and the saphenous vein (/) ; this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is con- nected to the falciform margin and the cribriform fascia. In front of the crural sheath is the iliac part of the fascia lata. The sheath is continuous with the fasciae of the abdomen and how formed, thigh in this way;—the anterior part is a prolongation of the transversalis fascia beneath Poupart's ligament; and the posterior part is formed externally by the iliac fascia covering the psoas muscle, and internally by the pubic part of the fascia lata covering the pectineus. Crossing the front of the sheath, beneath the arch of Poupart's Deep crural ligament, is a fibrous band, the deep crural a/rch. It is noticed in the description of the transversalis fascia (p, 452). Dissection (fig. 189). The student is to open the sheath by an Open the incision across the front, and to raise the anterior part with hooks, g^gath Inside the tube are contained the femoral vessels, each surrounded by its covering of areolar tissue, together with an inguinal gland ; Vessels have and if a piece of the areolar casing be cut out over both the artery sheath*^ and the vein, there will be an appearance of two thin partitions, the one being situate on the inner side of the vein, separating this vessel from the gland, and the other (X) between the vein and the artery. Interior of the crural sheath (fig. 189). The sheath is said to be Contents of divided into three compartments by two partitions ; and the posi- g]™^^}^ tion of the so-called septa has been before referred to, one beincr ^ internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compartment is contained the femoral artery (a), lying close to the side of the sheath ; in the middle one is Space placed the femoral vein (b) ; and in the inner space (crural canal) '^T'^^^ only a lymphatic gland (c) is situate. '