167 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LARYNX. thyroid joint: movements. Crico- arytenoid, joint and ligament. thjToid CtOi'tilage by the thyro-arytenoid and lateral crico-aryteiioid luusclt's. The deep surface of the membrane is lined by the mucous membrane. The crico-tkyroid articulation is formed between the inferior cornu Crico- of the thyroid and the lateral articular facet of the cricoid cartilage A capsular ligament, which is thickest behind, and lined by syno vial membrane, surrounds the articulation. This joint allows of a slight degree of Pig_ 4.^* gUdins! movement backwards and for- wards, and of a rotatory movement around a transverse axis, by Avhich the front of the cricoid cartilage is raised or de- pressed. (See the action of the crico- thyroid and thyi'O-arytenoid muscles.) Crico-anjtenoid articulation. Between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages there is a sjTiovial joint surroimded by a loose cap- sule. To the inner side of the joint there is a Avell marked crico-arytenoid ligament, which passes from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage near the middle line to the adjacent part of the base of the ary- tenoid, and prevents the latter cartilage being drawn forwards over the cricoid. The arytenoid cartilage glides upwards M'^^^si^Mij^ Movements and inwards, or downwards and out- gliding wards, to a slight extent on the oblicj^ue and articular facet of the cricoid ; but its ^""^—rotation, principal movement is one of rotation, by which the vocal process is carried inwards and somewhat downwards, approximating nan-owing the glottis. Between the apex of the arytenoid cartilage and the capitulum Arytenoid there is sometimes a synovial joint, but the two cartilages are most capituiun, frequently united by connective or fibro-cartUaginous tissue. The thyro-ai-ytenoid ligaments have been examined with the vocal cords (p. 160). Ligaments of the epiglottis. An elastic band, thyro-epiglottidean Two liga- ligament, connects the lower extremity of the epiglottis to the ^,*jIifottis thyroid cartilage, close to the notch in the upper border of the latter (fig. 42); and a membranous layer of fibrous and elastic tissue, hyo-epiglottidean ligament, passes between the front of the epiglottis and the hyoid bone. the vocal cords and glottis, or outwards and upwards, enlarging the * View of the vocal cords and crico-tliyroid ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid mnscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Ary- tenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryngis. 6. Lateral part of tbe°crico-thyroid membrane.