DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 392 and superficial part of tlie common mass of the erector m the loins, insertion. Its fibres end in six or seven tendons, which are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. It is continued to the upper ribs and the neck by the two following muscles :— Acces- * The ACCESSORius (musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem; fig. 120, SOI 111!,. arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy slips from tlie angles of origin ; ^]^jg lower six ribs internal to the insertion of the ilio-costalis ; and insertion, it ends in tendons which are inserted into the remaining ril)S in a line with the ilio-costalis, and into the transverse process of the seventh cervical vetebra. Ccn'icaiis The CERVicALis ASCENDENS is a muscular slip prolonging the asceudeiis: accessorius into the neck: it arises from four ribs, viz., the sixth, tosei-tion ^^'^j fourth, and third, and is inserted into the j)osterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, and fourth cervical vetebrae. 5^j?sf f^™"^ * The LONGissiMUS DORSi is the largest of the pieces resulting from the division of the erector spinte, and has two sets of double insertions into the vertebrse and ribs. Internally it gives off a ' series of fleshy and tendinous bundles to the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae: externally it is attached by thick fleshy slips to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum ; and by thin flattened processes to the ribs, except the first two or three, between the tuberosity and angle. is contiimed Its mxiscular prolongation to the neck is imited with the upper to neck bv . ... fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces :— ti-ans- The TRAUSVERSALis COLLI (fiff- 121, b) arises from the transverse colli, processes oi the upper dorsal vertebrae (irom lour to six), and is in- serted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae except the first and last, and to head The TRACHELO-MASTOiD MUSCLE (transversaHs capitis; fig. 121, niastoid^'^^'*' C''""^^^^ ill common with the preceding, and receives additional slips from the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae. It is inserted beneath the splenius capitis into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, where it is about three- quarters of an inch wide. Spinalis * The SPINALIS DORSI is very narrow, and springs from the '^"^^^ ■ tendinous slips of the erector which arise from the lower dorsal and insertion. uj)per two or three lumbar spines. Its fibres are inserted into a variable number (from four to nine) of the upper dorsal spines. Relations of * Relations of the erector spincn. The erector spinas is concealed by lumbar and ^^^^ niuscles of the layers already examined. It lies over the senii- doisal spinalis and multifidus spinas muscles, jaortions of the ribs and regions, external intercostal muscles, and the levatores costarum. In the loins it is contained in an aponeurotic sheath of the fascia lum- borum (p. 386) ; and in the thoracic region a similar sheath is formed for the muscle by the vertebral aponeurosis with the ribs and dorsal vertebrae. The tendon of origin is united over tlie sacrum with the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum ; and from its outer border in this part some fibres of the gluteus maximus arise, and in netk. The prolongations of the muscle in the neck lie between the