196 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. varies in extent. Dissection. Fibres of lateral tmct. Direct (•erebellar tract. fibres from eacli side, but the ijroportion of the pyramidal fibres which decussate in the medulla varies much in diflerent individuals. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the deeper fibres of the medulla oblongata, the pyi'amid may be cut across on the right side between the decussation and the olivary body (fig. 57) and raised towards the pons. The lateral tract is composed of the remaining fibres of the lateral column of the cord, after the crossed pyramidal tract has been given off". Most of these pass deeply behind the olivary body, and through the reticular formation to the pons ; but one small band, the direct cerebellar tract, is continued superficially from the lateral column to the cerebellum. This band is often visible on the surface of the medulla, as a whiter streak lying along the outer edge of the Fibres of funiculus cuneatus, gracilis, and of Bolando. Formation of restiform body. Arciform fibres, lateral tract, and inclining backwards above the tubercle of Rolando to join the restiform body. Posterior funiculi. The white fibres of the cuneate and slender funiculi are the continuation of the posterior, and posterior median columns of the cord respectively, and are believed to end entirely in the grey miclei of the funiculi. The funiculus of Rolando has only a very thin superficial white layer, which is also derived froBi the posterior column. The restiform bochj is formed mainly by the arciform fibres of f the medulla, with the direct cerebellar tract from the lateral I column of the cord. Arciform fibres. In the upper half of the medulla oblongata, . covering its anterior surface and traversing its substance, is an extensive system of fibres, curving outwards and backwards from * Transverse section of the medulla oblongata at the lower part of the fourth ventricle (Clarke), a. Pyramid, b. Olivary body. c. Tubercle of Eolando. d. llestiform body. e. Lateral boundary of fourth ventricle. /. " White core of the olivary body, with tlie roots of the hyjjoglo.ssal nerve to its . inner side. g. Olivary peduncle, h. Deep arciform fibres entering tlie raph6 t (a few more are added from a second drawing), k.l. Reticular formation. ■ n. Floor of fourth ventricle, o. Hypoglossal nucleus, p. Glosso-pharyngeal i nucleus, r. Inner auditory nucleus. s. Superficial arciform fibres. 1.1 Eemains of the gelatinous substance.