46 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. two uamed long ciliary, ami an- terior. Muscular. Ethmoidal tranches, posterior and an- terior. Branches to eyelids. Frontal branch. Nasal branch. Ophthalmic veins : superior and inferior. Optic nerve ends in retina. Dissection. part. Two of this set (one on cacli wide of the optic nerve), named Imicj ciliary, pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the ophthalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea in the eyeball they anastomose Avith the long ciliarj^ For the ending of these vessels, see the dissection of the eyeball. The muscular branches are uncertain in their place of origin; and those to the lower muscles often arise together as one trunk. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, and are dii-ected through the canals ii) the inner wall of the orbit :— The ijosterior is the smaller of the two, and ends in offsets to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the nose and the ethmoidal cells. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nasal nerve to the cavity of the nose (Section XIV.), and gives meningeal offsets to the fore part of the falx cerebri and the dura mater of the anterior fossa of the skull. The falpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 33). The frontal branch turns rou.nd the margin of the orbit, and Ls distributed on the forehead (p. 5). The nasal branch (external) supplies the skin and muscles of the upper part of the nose, and anastomoses with the angular and lateral nasal branches of the facial artery. The ophthalmic veins are two in number, superior and inferior, and leave the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The superioi vein is the larger and accompanies the artery : it begins in front by a wide communication with the angular vein, and on its way back- wards it receives tributaries corresponding to most of the offsets of the artery. The inferior vein lies below the optic nerve, and is formed by the lower ciliary and muscular branches ; it communi- cates through the spheno-maxillary fissure with the pterj'goid plexus. The supraorbital, frontal and palpebral veins do not join the ophthalmic, but pass to the veins of the face (pp. 6 and 33). The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is sm-- rounded by the recti muscles ; and beyond that spot the ciliary arteries and nerves entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal expansion of the eye. Dissection (fig. 12). Take away the ophthalmic vessels, and divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position Avith hooks. On removing some fixt the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, will appear ; and lying on the first two are the offsets of the lower division of the third nerve.