650' DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. and sheatli. Vas deferens: course; unites with duct from vesicula. Urethra; length ; curves; division. Prostatic. Membra- nous : relations. Spongy. Fixed curve of urethra: extent; Avitli the pouch of the peritoneum the trianwjular space at the hase of the Ijhulder. Tlie vesicula3 are coiitaiued in a ineniLranou.s .sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined Ly invol- untary muscular fibres. The VAS DKPERENS or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 1 70,/; iu its course to the urethra enters the al)domen by the internal abdominal ring, and crossing the obliterated hypogastric ai-teiy, is directed downwards along the liinder part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common seminal or ejaculatoi-y duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula seminalis. Tlic position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the iireter and the vesicula of tlic same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlai'gc(l. and is sacculated. The URETHRA is the excretory pass.ige for the urine and semen (fig. 170), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In length it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed downwards and forwards through the triangular ligament of the ]3erineum to the root of the penis, forming a large curve A\-ith the concavity to the pubis. Thence to its termination the urethra is contained in the penis ; and while this body remains j^endent the canal forms a second bend Avith the concavity downwards; but if the penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,—prostatic, membranous, and spongy. The lorostatic ])art (b) is contained in the jirostate gland, and receives its name from that circumstance. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture of the body it descend.- nearly vertically to the triangular ligament. The membranous part (c), about three-quarters of an inch long, intervenes between the apex of the prostate and the lower surface of the triangular ligament. It slants forwards in the erect posture to the lower part of the triangular ligament ; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under surface measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is suppoitt-d by the triangular ligament (71). Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethree ; and close behind it are Cowpei''s glands and the rectum. The s23ongy part {d) is so named from its being surrounded by a cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form tin- body of the penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarms at the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is covered by the ejaculator urinse muscle (fig. 133). The curve of the urethra is the fixed bend at the hinder i)art of the canal which lies behind the pubis. It extends from the l)ladd('r to an inch and a half in front of the aperture iu the triangular ligament, and comprises .the prostatic and membranous portions,