708 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. syno\ inl sue : to tile cu- boid lionc ; .synoviiil sac. Union of the cuneiform lionos one -witli another, and with the cuboid bone: synovial SilC. Common synovial sac. Surfaces of liones. Motion in inversion and ever- sion ; state of Uic liKaments, the mnennost is tlie strongest and widest, and extends round the inside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 221, e). The place of x>lantar bands is supplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The naviculo-cimeiform articulations form one continuous joint, and from their synovial cavity offsets are sent fonvards between the cuneiform bones. In the articulation with the cuboid there is a do^'sal oblique band of fibres (fig. 219, h) between the contiguous parts of the bones ; a plantar transverse band (fig. 221, d), which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch, the surfaces are tipped with cartUage, and a process of the naviculo-cuneiform synovial cavity extends between them. Articulations of the cuneiform bones. These bones are united to one another by cross bands ; and the external one articulates with the cuboid after a similar manner. The three cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- verse dorsal bands (fig. 219, n) between the upper surfaces. Similai- plantar ligaments are wanting, except one between the two inner- most (fig. 221, /). There are also interosseous ligaments between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. Laterally there are articular surfaces between the bones, with off'sets of the common sj-novial cavity. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone, the sur- faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 219, n) passes transversely between the two ; and a plantar ligament (fig. 221, g) takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. This joint is furnished either with a distinct synovial sac, or with a prolongation of the common synovial cavity. The synovial cavity of the articulations of the cuneiform bones is com- mon to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the na"\dculai- and the three cuneiforms, it sends one prolongation forwards between the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints Avith the second and third metatarsal bones ; another between the middle and outer cuneiform bones ; a third outwards to the articulation of the navicular with the cuboid bone (when present) ; and sometimes a fourth to the joint between the external cuneifomi and the cuboid. Articular surfaces. On the navicular are three articular facets, the inner being rounded, and the other two flattened. The three cimei- forms imite in a shallow elliptical hollow, which is most excavated internally. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the naA-icular in inversion of the foot, and down and in in eversion ; and the inner one moves more than the others in consequence of the shape of the articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticus. When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments are made tight: and as they rise the interosseous and transverse plantar bands will keep them united.