DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 442 hiU*^^^ Numerous small apertures in the tendon transmit cutaneous vessels and nerves ; and near tlie puhis is the lai-ge opening of the external abdominal aLaominal ring (c), which gives passage to the spermatic cord in th(- male, and to the round ligament in the female. Use of both Action. Both muscles taking their fixed jjoint at the pelvis will actfifg^fl'oiii ^<^T^(l the trunk forwards ; hut supposing the s])ine fixed, they will lielvis, clraw down the rihs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate and thorax ; the pelvis. one muscle Should one muscle contract it will incline the trunk to the same acting; ^^^^^ ^j, j.^:^^ pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attachment may be moveable; or if the trunk is prevented from being bent, it will turn the thorax to the opposite side, influence on The external obliqiie also acts powerfully with the other broad cavity"'^^ muscles in flattening the wall and diminishing the cavity of the abdomen, and in forcing up the diaphragm during expiration by means of pressui'e transmitted through the abdominal viscera. Parts of the aponeurosis. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line, the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin, and the thickened border named Poupart's ligament. In the linea Linea alba (fig. 141). This white band on the front of the aponeuroses abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of opposite are united: sides. It extends from the ensiform process to the pubic symphysis, and is wider above than below. It is perforated here and there by small apertures, wliich allow pellets of fat to jjrotrude in some below mid- bodies. A little below the centre is the umbiHcus, which now bii1cus\""" projects beyond the surface, though before the skin Avas removed, a hollow indicated its position. abdomUial External abdominal ring (fig. 137, c). This opening is situate near ring: the pubis, between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It is form and somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the pubic crest, and situation; ^j^g apex directed upwards and outwards. The long measxrrement «ize; Qf tiig aperture is about an inch, and the transverse about half an inch. inner side or Its margins are named pillars, and difi"er in form and strength. pillar, rpj^j, inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the front of the symphysis pubis, where it decussates with the corresponding piece of the opposite side. The outer margin is stronger, and is outer pillar; curved, SO as to form a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, fascia pro- and is attached below to the pubic spine. A thin membrane (intcr- longedfrom columnar fascia), derived from some fibres on the surface of the margin; . aponeurosis, covers the opening. objects The ring gives passage in the male to the spennatic cord, and in through. the female to the round ligament; and in each sex the transmitted part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the intercolumnar fascia. Through this aperture an inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. intercolum- "pj^g intercolumnar fibres run transversely on the surface of the nar fibres: