DISSECTION OF THE LEG. G64 use like gastrocnc- iiiitis. Detach soleus, and clean the dceii fascia. Deep part of the fascia of the leg. Clean the rteeji muscles: dissect peroneal arterv. Four mus- cles in the deep group ; position and destination. Popliteus arises withiH knee-joint ; inserted Action. It assists slightly the gastrocnemiufl in extending the ankle if the foot is not fixed ; and in 1 lending the knee-joint if the foot is immoveable. Dissection (fig. 205). The soleus is to be detached from the bones of the leg, and the muscles and nerves entering it are to be divided; but in raising it, the student should take cure not to injure the thin deej? fascia and the vessels and nerves beneath. The superficial muscles may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis; and the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the OS calcis should be opened. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and deep groups is then to be cleaned; and the integuments between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous • nerve to the sole of the foot, which pierces the ligament, is to be preserved. Dee'p fart of the fascia. This intermuscular piece of the fascia oi the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the flexor muscles of the deep group. In the upper part of the leg it is thin and indistinct ; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, wliich give it the appearance and office of an annular ligament in that situa- tion. Inferiorly it joins the internal annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. The deep layer of muscles, the posterior tibial nen-e, and the trunk and offsets of the posterior tibial vessels will be laid bare by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis jDosticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two lateral muscles (flexor digitoruni and flexor hallucis) ; and it will not fully appear until after the membrane covering it has been divided longitudinally, and reflected to the sides. To prepare the peroneal artery, evert and partly divide the flexor hallucis, by which it is concealed ; then define branches from its lower part to the front of the leg, the outer side of the foot, and to join the posterior tibial artery. Deep Group of Muscles (fig. 205). The deep muscles at the back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus hallucis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeui-osis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot ; and they have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendi- nous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 205, a) arises by tendon, within the capsule of the knee-joint, from the front of an oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur ; and external to the capsule of the joint, some fleshy fibres arise from the posterior ligament. The muscular fibres spread out, and are inserted into the