DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 206 is behind coron.al suture. Parieto- occipital fissure; KoifuMio ^ "^^^^ /wroiv of Rolando (central sulcus ; fig. 60, r) crosses the outer surface of the hemisphere near the middle. Beginning above close to the margin of the great longitudinal fissure, the° furrow runs downwards and somewhat forwards, with a serpentine course, to end about one inch behind the jjlace of division of the Syhdan fissure and very near to its posterior limb. This sulcus is used to separate the frontal from the parietal lobe. The upper end of the furrow of Rolando is placed from an inch- and-a-half to two inches, the lower end aljout one inch behind the coronal suture. The farieto-ocdintal fissure (fig. G\, po) is a deep sulcus at the hinder part of the inner surface of the hemisphere. Its upper end appeai-s on the superior surface of the cerebrum about midway between the preceding sulcus and the posterior extremity of tlie hemisphere, and extends outwards for nearly an inch from the margin of the longitudinal fissure (fig. 60, ];jo). It indicates the anterior limit of the occipital lobe. The parieto-occipital fissure is placed opposite the summit of the lambdoid suture. Lobes. The outer surface of the hemisphere is divided into five lobes (excluding the olfactory) which have the following names and limits :— Th.^ frontal lobe forms the anterior half of the hemisphere. It is limited below by the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius (fig. 60, s"), and behind by the furrow of Rolando (r). Its imder part, which rests on the roof of the orbit, is named the orbital lobule. The farietal lobe is little more than half the size of the frontal. Its anterior limit is the furrow of Rolando (r), and its jiosterior a line drawai transversely over the hemisj)here from the parieto-occipital boundaries fissure. Below, it is bounded in its fore part by the posterior plrt" ^^^'^^ branch of the fissure of Sylvius (s'"), and in its hinder part by a artificial. extending from the spot Avhere this sulcus turns upw-ards to the 230sterior extremity of the hemisphere. Its convolutions are con- tinuous with those of the occipital lobe behind, and of the temporo- sj^henoidal lobe below. The occipital lobe is small, and triangular in shape. It is separated from the parietal lobe for a short distance above by the parieto- occipital fissure (po) ; but its anterior boundary is for the most part artificial, being constituted by a line continuing the direction of that fissure across the outer surface of the hemisphere. Its convolutions join those of the parietal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The temporo-sphenoidal lobe projects into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. Its fore part is separated from the frontal and parietal lobes by the fissure of Sylvius, but its hinder part is only limited by the lines above mentioned, across which its con- volutions pass into those of the parietal and occipital lobes. The central lobe, insula, or island of Reil (fig. 61, c), is placed at the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and is concealed by the over- lapping of the temporo-sphenoidal, parietal and frontal lobes. If the situation. Lobes of hemisphere. Frontal lol;e is largest: orbital lobule. Parietal lobe : Occipital lobe. Temporn- sphenoidal lobe. Central lobe, or island of fieil.