DISSECTION OP THE FACE. 34 muscles of Hie cartilage to another, are very thm and pale. Five small muscles auricle. , , ° -it.-, . . , are to be recognised; and these receive their names for the most part from the several eminences of the external ear. .How to And Dissection. In seeking the small auricular muscles, let the the muscles, gj^-^^^ -^^ removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to Fig. 8.* One muscle on tragus. One on antl tragus. One on root of helix. Another on helix. And one at back of concha. Use. be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary for the display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector -will not find one or more of the number described below. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 8,is always found on the external aspect of the process from which it takes its name. The fibres are short, oblique, or transverse, and extend from the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 8, -) is the best marked of all. It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of the antihelix. The small muscle of the helix (fig. 8, is often indistinct or absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends into the concha. The lorge muscle of the helix (fig. 8, ^) arises above the small muscle of the same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse muscle of the auricle (fig. 8, ^) forms a wide layer, which is situate at the back of the ear in the depression between the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartUage forming the concha, and is inserted into the back of the helix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when that tissue is removed. Actions. These muscles are said to alter slightly the condition of the outer ear; the muscles of the helix assisting, and those of the * Muscles on the outer surface of the ear-cartilage. 1. Muscle of the tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle of the helix. 4. Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the inner surface of the car-cartilage. 7. Oblique muscle (Tod) sometimes seen. 6. Transverse muscle.