465 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. Danger to vessels. When the incision is made upwards and in- ^j^^jj'j^"^^^ wards to loosen the constricting band in the neck of the tumour, vesseis'm there will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made '""^gular so long as to reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made dii'ectly inwards with the same {'"j.^^jj'^"^?"" view, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But tion of in some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence) the obturator artery takes its unusual coixrse in front, and on the inner side of the neck of the hernia, and will be before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the spinal Definition, column behind, and the muscles stretching from the thorax to the pelvis in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), j^^^j and contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, with tents, vessels and nei-ves. Dissection. To prepare the cavity for examination, the remainder Dissection of the abdominal wall above the imibilicus is to be cut, along the abdomen left side of the linea alba, as far as the ensiform process. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form. This cavity is the largest in the body. It is is largest ovoidal in form, with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it ^^"fy • 1 • 1 T 1 T . the body; measures more m the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it jy ^^^j is much wider above than below. Boundaries. Above it is limited by the diaphragm ; below by the Boundaries recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani muscles, and bv the other ^^^""^ and 1)g1ow structures closing the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity, and are in part fleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and. flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and in front and partly muscular ;—thus, towards the upper and lower limits is the "'^•'•'des, bony framework of the skeleton, viz., the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other; but between these the wall is formed by the broad muscles which have been examined. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous and behind, to it, viz., the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced Depth is hy the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished tSS' by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- d'aphragm tion and ascent of the levatores ani; and the cavity is restored to aiiil its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles. H H