97 LINGUAL NERVE. the artery of the same name, and, after being joined by sMingml branches, pixsses backwtmis over the hyo-glossus muscle witli the hypoo-lossalnerve. These veins end in the internal jugular. The LiNCxUAL NERVE (lig. 24,') has been followed in the pterygo- Lingual maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the'internal pterygoid muscle (p. 92). In the submaxillary region the nerve is inclined inwards to the side of the tongue, across ai«^js^«j|f the mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior ° ""S'"' constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary Fig. 24.* "land. Lastly, it is du-ected forwards below the Whartonian duct, gives » Ijraiiclies and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Brandies are fur- nished to the surrounding parts, thus :— Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillar}''ganglion, to tiie gan- near the gland of that name. ° ' Farther forwards one or more branches descend on the hyo- to twelfth glossus to unite in a loop with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the t<> mucous mouth, the gums, and the sublingual gland. Lastly, the hranches for the tongue ascend through the muscular to the substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papilla), i''"*!'''^*- The SUBMAXILLARY GANGLION (fig. 24,^) resembles the other Suhmaxil- gauglia connected with the three trunks of the fifth nerve, and !fau,rUon communicates with motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves. It lies ° * Deep view of the submaxillary region (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Genio-glossus. b. Genio-hyoid. c. llyo-glossus. ix Stylo-glossus. F. Mylo-hyoid reflected. H. Stylo-liyoid. j. Posterior belly of digastric. NervesLingual. 2. Submaxillary ganglion. 4. Glosso-pliaryngcal. 6. Hypoglossal. 7. Upper laryngeal. The lingual artery is seen dividini;, close to the hypoglossal nerve : the ranine offset is marked with 9. 3. Wharton's duct. 11