DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 660 Uteri no artery: offsets to vagina; joins ovarian. Internal iliac vein: position to its artery; ending; its brandies tliat are peciiliar are pudie, dorsal vein of penis, luumor- rlioldal, vesical, uterine, and vaginal veins. Otlier arteries in the pelvis. Ovarian artery: offsets. deficient branches are derived from an accessory artejy, which takes origin from the internal iliac (mostly from the trunk of the jjudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the prostate gland, to perforate the triangular ligament. It furnishes brandies to the penis to supply the place of those that are wanting. The uterine artery (fig. 171, d) passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, where the vessel changes its direction, and ascends to the fundus. Niimerouij branches enter the substance of tlie uterus, and ramifying in it, ai-e remark- able for their tortuous condition. At the neck of the uterus some f,inall twigs are supplied td the vagina and the bladder; and opposite the ovary a branch .bends outwards to anastomose with the ovarian arterj' of tlie aorta. The INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN receives the blood from the wall of the pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches coiTesponding for the most part with those of the artery. The vein is a shoit tliick trunk, which is situate at the j)osterior and inner a.spect of the artery ; and it ends by uniting with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein. Branches. Most of the branches entering the trunk of the in- ternal iliac vein have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the following branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and htemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic veins receive roots corresponding with the branches oi' the pudic artery in the perineum (p. 430), but not those corre- sponding with the oftsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis (p. 440) receives veins from the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum of the penis, and entering the pelvis below the symphysis j)iibis, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which join a large plexus round the prostate {prostatic plexus). The middle hcemorrhoidal vein communicates with a large plexus (hsemorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum beneath the mucous membrane (p. 579). The vesical veins begin in a j)lexus about the fundus of the bladder, and anastomose with the jirostatic and hoemorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates above with the ovaxian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround their tube with a large vascular jslexus (p. 582). The arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the inter- nal iliac, are the ovarian, superior haemorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The OVARIAN ARTERY (p. 528), after passing the brim of the pelvis, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to' be dis- tributed to the ovary: it sujiplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery.