470 SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric Mesenteric arteries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and the lower end of the ' rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection (fig. 147). For the dissection of the superior mesen- Dissection teric vessels and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omen- niesentedc timi are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one layer vessels, (anterior or right) of the mesentery is to be removed. While trac- ing the branches of the artery to the small intestine, corresponding veins and slender offsets of the sympathetic nerve on the arteries will be met with. Mesenteric glands and lacteal vessels also come into view at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intes- tine are to be next followed under the peritoneum; and after all the branches have been cleaned, the trunk of the artery should be and nerves, traced back beneath the pancreas. The surrounding plexus of nerves should be also defined. The SUPERIOR MESENl'ERIC ARTERY (fig. 147, O) supplies wholly Superior _ the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and half the large intes- ^.te?y*^^'° tine, viz., as far as the end of the transverse colon. Arising from the aorta near the diaphragm, the vessel is directed courses in downwards between the layers of the mesentery, forming an arch geuteiy • with the convexity to the left side, and terminates in offsets to the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies beneath the pancreas reiatious, and the splenic vein ; and as it descends to the mesentery it is placed in front of the duodenum and the left renal vein. It is surroimded by a plexus of nerves, and accompanied by the vein of the same name. Brandies. The artery furnishes a small offset to the pancreas and and duodenum, intestinal branches to the jejunum and ileum, and colic branches to the large intestine. a. The inferior pancreatico-dmdenal artery (h) is small, and Pancreatico- uaually arises in common with the first intestinal branch. It is directed to the right between the pancreas and duodenum, to both of which it supplies branches, and anastomoses with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery from the hepatic. b. The intestinal branches ior the jejunum and ileum (/) are twelve Branches to or more in number, and pass from the left side of the artery between tine'- the layers of the mesentery. About two iaches from their origin number and the branches bifurcate, and the resulting pieces unite with similar f^^Un offsets from the collateral arteries, so as to form a series of arches, arches; From the convexity of the arches other branches take origin, which divide and unite as before. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the last set of arches twigs distribution are sent to the intestine on botli aspects of the tube, and anastomose ^^"^ round it. ^ The l/i-anches to the large intestine are three in number, ileo-colic, Arteries of right colic, and middle colic arteries. ^'^'S'^ g^^*-