276 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. four nerv s '^^^ iiervcs in n-.latioii with tlic artery are the following :—The o nerves, ^.^^p^.j^^g^]^ cutaneous (fig. 82, ^) is iu contact Avith the vessel until it perforates the fascia about the middle of the arm. The uhiar nerve (■*) lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco- brachialis mixscle ; and the musculo-S]:)iral (fig. 72, ■*) is behind for a distance of two inches. The median nerve (fig. 82, is close to the vessel throughout, but alters its position in this Vt'iiy :—as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis it is placed on the outer side, but it then, crosses obli(.]^uely over, or occasionally under the artery, and becomes internal abou.t two inches above the elbow-joint. Deviation in position in mnsctilar covering. Artery double. Aberrant vessels. Peculiarity in position. The brachial trunk oocasionally leaves the inner border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and courses along the inter- muscular septum, with or without the median nerve, to near the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary position La front of the elbow, beneath the upper fibres of the pronator teres, which has then a wide origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projection (supracondylar process) of the humerus. Muscular covering. In some bodies the brachial artery is covered by an additional slip of origin of the biceps, or of the brachialis anticus muscle. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. Sigh division. Instead of a single trunk, there may be two vessels in the lower part, or even the whole length of the arm, owing to an unusually high origin of one of the arteries of the forearm, more frequently the radial. Vasa aberrantia. Occasionally a long slender vessel passes from the brachial or the axillary trunk to the radial, rarely to the ulnar artery. Its branches are musciilar. superior profunda, inferior profunda, artery to bone, and anas- tomotic. Branches spring both externally and internally from the brachial artery (fig. 81). Those on the outer side, muscular, sujjply the coraco-bracliialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus, as well as the lower part of the deltoid ; those on the inner side are the superior and inferior profunda, the medullary artery of the humerus, and the anastomotic branch. The superior profunda branch (^) is larger than the others, and leaves the artery near the lower border of the teres major ; it winds backwards with the musculo-S23ii-al nerve to the triceps muscle, and Avill be dissected with the back of the arm (p. 281). The inferior profunda branch (®) arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humenis. There it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common ^dth the superior profunda artery. The medullary artenj of the humerus begins near the preceding branch, and enters the aperture about the middle of the humerus, being directed downwards. The anastomotic branch (') arises one or two inches above the elbow, and courses inwards through the uitermuscular septum to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of tlie humerus. Here the artery anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent branches, and gives twigs to the