DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. 312 origin; insertion; and use. Dissection of supinator brevis. Origin of short supi- nator : and inser- tion. Overlying and con- tiguous parts. Use. Posterior interosseous artery between tlie layers of muscles, and super- ficial : paTt of the interosseous membrane. Near tlie wrist the tendon becomes free from muscular fibres, and passing beneath the annular ligament with the common extensor of the lingei-s, Ls applied to, and blends with the external tendon of that muscle in the expan- sion on the first phalanx of the fore finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer, bu.t it is afterwards subaponeurotic. Action. The muscle can point the fore hnger even when the three inner fingers are bent; and it will help the common extensor of the digits ill drawing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the liumerus, and to cut through the siipinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the fleshy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachial is anticus, is to be removed. The SUPINATOR BREVIS (d) surrounds the upper part of the radius, except at the tuberosity and the front of the bone below it. It arises from the external margin of the ulna for a distance of two inches, as well as from a depression below the small sigmoid ca\dty; also from the orbicular ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. The fibres pass outwards and forwards, and are inserted into the upper third or more of the radius, except at the fore and inner parts, reaching downwards to the insertion of the pronator teres, and forwards to the oblique line of the bone. The suj)inator brevis is concealed altogether at the posterior and external aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial laj^er; and anteriorly the radial vessels and nerve lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi joollicis, only the pos- terior interosseous vessels {a) intervening. Through the substance of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve winds to the back of the limb. Action. "When the radius has been moved over the uhia in pronation, the short supinator comes into j)lay to bring that bone again to the outer side of the ulna. The POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY (fig. 92, fl)is an ofl'set from the common interosseous trunk (p. 291), and reaches the back of the forearm above the membrane between the bones. Appearing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi j)ollicis, the artery descends at first between the superficial and deep layers of muscles ; and afterwards, with a superficial position in the lower third of the forearm, along the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris as far as the mist, where it Interosseous recurrent, c. Ending of the anterior interosseous, d. Radial. e. Dor.sal branches to the thumb and fore finger. /. Dorsal carpal arch. </. Two dorsal interosseous of the hand. Nerves: 2. Radial. 3. Posterior interosseous at its origin, and 4, near its ending ou the back of the cai-pus.