DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 270 Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position, and inci- sions in the skin. Seek super- ficial veins. Trace cuta- neous nerves of outer side, and inner side of tlic limb. Superficial fut. Suiierlicial veins. Position. For tlie dissection of tlie superficial vessels and nervi - on the front of tlie arm tlie limb should lie flat on the table, with the anterior surface uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to be raised from the fore and hinder suj- faces of the arm and elbow. To reflect it, make one incision along the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the bend of tip- elbow, and at the termination of this, a second cut half round tl;'- forearm. Stiij? now the skin from the limb as low as the transvei-^ incision, so that the fat which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins (fig. 80) may be sought first in the fat: they are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, as they issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of the foreanu is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. External to this is a small vein (radial) ; and internal to it are the auteridr and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the forearm. At the elbow these veins are united into two; one (ba.sihc) is to be followed along the inner side, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneoiis nerves may be next traced out. '\^Tiere they per- forate the deep fascia they lie beneath the fat; and this layer must be scrajjed through to find them. On the outer side of the arm, about the middle, two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spii-al are to be sought. In the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve a^I be recogiused. On the inner part of the limb the nei-ves to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- neous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm; and a little external to this nei-ve is a small cutaneoixs oflset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Scrape through the fat behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower thii'd of the arm, for the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the xipper tbiid, follow the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the intenial cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. Siqoerficial fascia. The subcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. At that spot it enchises the superficial vessels and lymphatics. Cutaneous Veins. The i)osition and relations of the veins in