562 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Pourtlj, which gives visceral, and muscu- lar offsets. Fifth is be- low aper- tiu-es in sacrum; ends on coccyx Coccygeal nerve. The fourth nerve (fig. 173, 4 ,S') sendn one branch upwards to the sacral plexus, another doAvnwards to join the fifth nerve, and dis- tributes the following offsets to the viscera and the muscles of the floor of the pelvis :— The visceral branches ('■") supply the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Other offsets are added to them from the third sacral nerve ffic 174,^). ^ ^' The muscular branches are three Fig. 173.* Sacral plexus: situation ; how formed; in number. One rather long branch (fig. 173, 2) enters the levator ani on the vis- ceral aspect; another (■*) sup- plies the coccygeus ; and the third (perineal or hse- mon-hoidal branch ; ^) reaches the perineum by piercing the levator ani or coccygeus muscle, and supplies the ex- ternal sphincter (p. 422). The fifth nerve (5 8) comes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the commimicating branch from the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and perforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and the gluteus maxi- mus, to end on the posterior surface of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve (1 c), after issuing by the lower aperture of the sjjinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve as above stated. Sacral plexus. This plexus^is formed by the lumbo-sacral cord, the fia.'st three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery ; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic foramen. Here they are united for the most part in a broad flat band, which, becoming * Dissection of the sacral nerves and plexus (altered from Henle). a. Urinaiy bladder. 6. Rectum, c. Levator ani. d. Coccygeus. Nerves: 41 and 5 I. Fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, giving rise to the himbo-sacral cord. 1 S io 5 S. Five sacral nerves. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1. Upper gluteal nerve. 2. Branch to levator ani. 3. Branch to the bladder. 4. ]5ranch to coccygeus. 5. Branch to tlie perineum. 6. Common branch of 4 S, 5 S, and 1 c, for the back of the coccyx.