184 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. auditory; anterior cerebellnr ; superior cerebellar, giving offsets to velum ; and posterior cerebral artery, branches of vifhicli are cortical. central, choroid, and posterior communi- cating. Part of brain sup- plied by vertebral arteries. Internal carotid ends in cerebral arteries. Branches. Po.sterior coiiiiiiuni- catiiig. wliicli arc named from their direction, and are distril)uted to tlie substance of the pons. One of them (^) gives an offset {auditory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. h. Eeseml)ling the branches of this set is the anterior cerebellar artery: this arises from the basilar trunk, and extends to the fore part of the xrnder surface of the cerebellar hemi.sphere, on which it is distributed. c. The sujjerior cerebellar artery (^) is derived from the basilar so near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is to the ujjper surface of the small brain, to Avhich it is directed backwards, winding round the crus cerebri beloAv the third, but parallel to the fourth nerve. The ramifications of the artery spread over the upper surface of the cerebellum, and anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the fold of the pia mater (velum inteq^ositum) which projects into the cerebrum, d. The idosterior cerebral artery (^) takes on each side a backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the tliird nerve. Gaining the imder surface of the cerebral hemisphere, it divides into branches {superficial or cortical) Avhich supply the whole of the occipital lobe, and the lower and inner parts of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Its other oftsets are the following :— Numerous small long branches {dee'p or central) leave the trunk close to its origin, and enter the posterior perforated .space between the crura cerebri, to supply the optic thalami in the interior of the brain. A small choroid artery (posterior) passes between the crus and the hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositrun and choroid plexus. Near its origin it is farther joined by the posterior commimicating artery of the carotid. From the foregoing examination of the offsets of the vertebral arteries and the basilar trunk, it appears that about half the en- cephalon—viz., the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood tlirough these branches of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (^) terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerel)rmn. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus (p. 19) internal to the anterior clinoid process, and diATides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and communicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid lies Ijetween the second and third nerves, but nearer the former. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives oft" the ophthalmic offset, before it ends in the following branches. a. The 2'^osterior communicating artery (^) is generally a small vessel, whicli is directed backwards parallel to, and on the inner side of the third nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basUar) near the pons.