682 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. galus, Insertion of tendon ol peroneus Ionics: relations. it contains a fibro-cartilage, or occasionally a sesamoid bone. The tendon of the peroneus lonqus muscle winds round the cuboid bone, and is continued inwards in the groove on tlie under surface, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 209), it is contained in a sheath wliich is completed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament j)rolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only by areolar tissue. A synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon tunis round the cuboid bone it is thickened^ and contains fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. THE FEONT OF THE LEG. Position of the limb. Raise the skin. Seek the cutaneous nerves in the leg; on the foot both vessels .md nerves ; clean the fascia. Cutaneous veins: internal saphenous ; Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by block .>* beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be j)ut on the stretch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the skin from the leg: and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be looked for. At the upper and inner part of the leg are some filaments from the great sajjhenous nerve ; and at the outer side others, still smaller, from the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior asj^ect, the musculo-cutaneous nerve may be found, the branches of which should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally in the saj)henous veins. On the outer side Lies the external saphenous nerve; and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenous nerve ceases. In the interval between the great toe and the next the cutaneous j)art of the anterior tibial nerve appears. The digital nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments ; and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. The A^ENOUS ARCH on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the inste]-). Intenially and externally it passes into the saphenous veins. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in tlie arch. It ascends in f]-ont of the iimer ankle