ANATOMY OF THE RETINA. 725 Fig. 228. tr'anslucency, and is moreover rendered opaque by tlie action of water and other substances. In the living state, however, the retina is characterized by the existence of a purplish red colour, which is discharged under the influence of sunlight. This part of the retina extends over about the posterior tworthirds of the eyeball, reaching from the entrance of the optic nerve to the outer extremities of the ciliary processes, where it ends in an irregular wavy border—the ora serrata. Its thickness diminishes from behind forwards. The outer surface of the dissected retina is slightly flocculent, owing to the tearing away of the pigmentary layer. The inner sur- face is smooth : it is covered with folds in a preparation of the eye cut in two, but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support. At the spot where the optic nerve expands (porus opticus, optic disc ; fig. 228) the surface is slightly elevated (papilla optica); but in the centre of this is a slight ex- cavation where the central vessels ap- pear. In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the ball, is a slightly elliptical yellow area (fig. 228), one-twelfth of an inch in diameter, which is named the yellow spot (macula lutea). Almost in the centre of this spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in consequence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment outside to be seen. From the ora serrata a very thin layer is continued on as far as the tips of the ciliary processes : it is called the ciliary part of the retina, but does not consist of nervous substance. It is not visible to the naked eye. For a description of the structure of the retina, the student is re- ferred to a work dealing with microscopic anatomy. Vessels of tlie retina. The central artery of the retina, accompanied by its vein, enters the eyeball through the optic nerve (p. 45). In the central depression of the optic papilla the artery divides into four primary branches,—two inner or nasal (upper and lower), and two outer or temporal (also upper and lower). The outer branches are the larger, and follow an arched course above and below the yellow spot: all ramify in the innermost part of the nervous coat. No vessels enter the pigmentary layer. The veins have a similar arrangement. In the foetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of the vitreous mass to supply the lens-capsule. Vitreous Body. This is a soft transparent mass which fills the * Objects on the inner surface of the retina. In the centre of the ball is the yellow spot, here represented by shading : and in its middle the fovea centralis. To the inner side is the porus opticus, with tbe branching of the artery (Scemmerring). appearance and colour vary; extent; thickness; outer surface ; inner sur- face presents optic disc, central vessels, yellow spot, and central fovea. Ciliary part of retina. Artery of retina has four chief branches; another in foetus. Vitreous body.