743 THE OSSEOUS COCHLEA. is turned to tho. iiu'iitiis auditorius interims, and is i)erforated by small apertures ; while the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tynipuninn, opposite the eiuial for the tensor juuscle. Its length is about a quarter of an incli, and its width at the base is about the same. Resembling- a spiral shell, the cochlea consists of a tube Avound round a central part or axis ; but it differs from the shell in having its tube subdivided by a partition. The axis or modiolnti (fig. 238, a) is the central stem which sup- ports the windings of the spiral tube. Conical in shape, its size Fig. 238.* size; reseniblusi a snail-shell in some respects. Ceiitml pillar or axis diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tribe, but it enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone (6), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- tracted part in the last half-turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half round the stem, and terminates above in a closed extremity named the cupola. "When measured along the outer side, it is about one inch and a half long. Its diameter at the beginning is about one-tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest ; this projects towards the tympanum, and gives rise to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first coil. The last half-turn bends .sharply round, and presents a free margin (6)—the edge of the axis. In the recent bone the tube is divided into two mam j)assages (scalte) by the septum (fig. 238, c). In the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin osseous plate—lamina, spiralis, projecting from the axis. Septum of the spiral tube (tig. 239). The partition in the * Section through the cochlea (Breschet). a. Branches of tlic auditory nerve, contained in the canals of the axis. b. Enlarged' upper end of the axis. c. Septum of the cochlea. e. Membrane of Reissner. /. Hiatus or helicotrema. a.t. Scala tympani. «. y. Scala vestibuli. s.vi. Scala media or canal of the cochlea. is conical, and porous. A spiral tube, closed at one end, forms 2J turns ; measure- ment ; coils. Tube divided into two. Septum bony and membra- nous.