DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGIOX. 90 Branch to oxternal pterygoid. Buccal nerve is sensory; mider surface of the masseter muscle, in which it can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articula- tion of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. ^ The nerve to the external pterygoid generally arises in common with the buccal nerve, and enters the deep surface of its muscle : it is often represented by two or three branches. The buccal branch {^), longer and larger than the others, is mainly a sensory nerve to the cheek. It is first directed forwards between the heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and then descends beneath the coronoid process and insertion of the temporal muscle towards the angle of the mouth. After perforating the pterygoid, it Fig, 22.* gives oflf deep temporal. Posterior part of inferior maxillary. Am-iculo- temporal gives off the anterior deep temporal nerve ; and on the surface of the buccinator it divides into branches which form a plexus vdth the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and are finally distributed to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek. The LARGER PART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into three branches—auriculo-temporal, inferior dental, and lingual. A few of the fibres of the motor root join the dental nerve, and are conveyed to the mylo-hyoid and digastric muscles. The AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE (■*) arises from the trunk near the base of the skull, usually by two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery. In its course to the surface of the head; it is first directed backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle * Deep view of the pterygoid region (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A, Temporal reflected, js. Condyle of the jaw disarticulated, with the external pterygoid attached to it. c. Internal pterygoid, d. Buccinator, f. Masseter thrown down. Nerves: 1. Buccal. 2. Masseteric, cut. 3. Deep temporal. 4. Auriculo-temporal. 6. Chorda tymjiani. 7. Inferior dental. 8. Lingual. 10. Internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The arteries are not numbered with the exception of the internal maxillary trunk, which is marked with 9.