258 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Outer layer is (k'llcioiit in Iroiit. Dissection of deeper muscle, of nerves and vessels. Inner layer deficient behind. Use of outer muscles; of inner muscles, interosseous part. intercarti- laginou.s part. Dissection of internal mammary vessels. ning very obliquely downwards and forAvards, wliile tliose oi' iLi: internal pass, althougli less obliquely, dovrawards and backwards. The external muscle consists of flesliy and tendinous fibres, and is attached to the margins of the ribs bounding tlie intercostal space. It e.\tends from the tubercle of the upper rib beliind to the end of the bone in front, except in the last two spaces, where the muscle i. continued forwards between the cartUages. A thin membrane {anterior intercostal ajooneurosis) takes the place of the muscl'- between the rib-cartilages. Dissection. The internal intercostal muscle will be seen by cutting' through and removing the external layei' and the fascia in one of the widest spaces, say the second. Far back between the two muscles, and close to the rib above, the intercostal nerve and vessels will be foimd. A branch of the ner\-e to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscle ; and the trunk of the nerve is to Ix; traced forwards iii one or more spaces to the sternum and the sur- face of the chest. The hinder part of the muscles will be seen in tlie dissection of the back and thorax. The internal intercostal muscle is attached to the inner sm-face of the ribs bounding the space. It begins near the angles of the rib.s behind, the upper muscles approaching more closely to the spine than the lower ones, and reaches to the extremity of the intercostal space in front. The fibres of the lowest two muscles are continuoii - anteriorly with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One. surface is in contact with the external muscle, and the intercostal vessels and nerve ; and the other is lined by the pleura. Action. By the action of the intercostal muscles the ribs are moved in respiration. The external intercostals elevate the ribs and evert the lower edges, so as to enlarge the thorax in the autero-posterior and transverse directions : they come into play during inspii'ation. The internal intercostals act in a different way at the side and fore part of the chest. Between the osseous parts of the ribs they depress and tiu'n in those bones, diminishing the size of the thorax ; and they are brought into use in expiration. Between the rib-cartilages they raise the ribs, and are muscles of inspiration, like the outer layer. Dissection. To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilages of the true ribs, except tlie first and seventh, are to be taken away with the intervening muscles on the right side ;* but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and of the head and neck. Small arteries to each intercost^il sjiace and f he surface of the thorax, and the intercostal nerves are to be preser ved. * On the left side the vessels and ilic muscle may have been destroj'cd by the injection of the body.