CHAPTEE VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN". Section I. WALL OF THE ABDOMEN". The dissection is to be carried as far as the end of Section III Directions (p. 493), before the body is turned for the examination of the back, dissection. Position. The body will be sufficiently raised by the blocks Position of beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the npi^er limbs t'^e body, and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pelvi.s. If the abdomen is flaccid, it may be inflated through an aperture in the umbilicus, but if it is firm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. Surface-marking. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is pretty Appear- uniformly convex, especially in fat bodies ; but at the side there is s^^c° oj*'^*^ a slight hollow below the ribs, and a groove marks the position of tiie abdo- the iliac crest. Along the middle line is a groove over the linea alba, which begins above in a depression over the ensiform process (epigastric or infrasternal fossa), and becoming gradually shallower Pit of tlie below, ends a little beyond the umbilicus. The latter is a round, depressed cicatrix, situate nearer to the pubic bones than to the lower end of the body of the sternum, and opposite, as a rule, the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebra). On each side of the median groove is the elevation of the rectus muscle, which is intersected in adu.lt well-formed bodies by two or three trans- verse furrows. Over the lower ends of the recti and the adjacent j)arts of the Eminence of pubic bones the surface is somewhat elevated, owing to a slight v^Toes. accumulation of fat ; and the name pubes has been given to this l)art from its thick covering of hair. This projection is especially marked in front of the bones in the female, where it is distinguished as the mans Veneris. Beneath the eminence of the pubes the student Mons will be able to recognize with his finger the symphysis pubis, and '^^■^e"'*- to trace outwards from it the osseous pubic crest, which leads to the prominent pubic spine. From this to the anterior superior iliac inguinal'' .spine the curved inguinal furrow extends, separating the abdomen fi^rrow. from the thigh. If the finger be carried aloug the furrow it will Poupart's detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes one or ''S'lment. two inguinal gland.s. F F 2