333 THE MEDIASTINUM. iDgetlier. The partition is artificially divided into four parts, which are distinguished as the superior, anterior, middle, and posterior juediastina. Tlie superior m.ediastinum is the portion of the septum above the Superior pericardium, and may be defined as bounded below by a plane extending from the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal ^oynjianes vertebra to the junction of the manubrium and body of the sternum. It is limited in front by the manubrium mth the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and behind by the upper tour dorsal vertebree and the lower ends of the longi colli muscles. Between the pleurae in this part there are found, proceeding from '^^j'^^gjj^g before backwards, the following objects,—the remains of the thymus i,dand, several lymphatic glands, the innominate veins and the upper half of the superior cava, the j)hrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, the transvei-se part of the arch of the aorta with its three large branches, innominate, left carotid and left subclavian, the trachea, oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The anterior mediastimim is the part in front of the pericardium, Anterior and is very narrow in its upper half, since the two pleurae meet num is the behind the sternum from the level of the second to the fourth smallest: costal cartilages. Below the latter spot the left pleura inclines away from the middle line, and is separated from its fellow by an interval in which the pericardium comes into contact with the sternum and the left triangularis stemi muscle. The anterior mediastinum contents, contains only some areolar tissue with a few small lymphatic glands. In some bodies the left pleura is continued behind the sternum nearly as far as the diaphragm. The middle mediastinum is the largest part of the septum, and Middle me- includes the pericardium with the contained heart and great vessels, contmts?^" viz., the ascending part of the arch of the aorta, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and the lower half of the superior vena cava ; also the phrenic nerves, the roots of the lungs with the bronchial lymphatic glands, and on the right side the arch of the azygos vein. The posterior mediastinum is the portion between the pericardium Posterior and the spine ; and the interpleural space is here larger than in front of the heart. Its extent and contents will be shewn by dividing the pleura on the right side behind the root of the lung, boundaries, Enclosed between the serous layers of the posterior mediastinum and con- are the descending thoracic aorta, the azygos veins, the oesophagus with the pneumo-gastric nerves, and the thoracic duct, as well as a set of lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned from ^i^" P^ri- the side of the pericardium. The root of the lung is to be dissected out by taking away the t'^^ "^^^^ pleura and the areolar tissue from the front and back, without in- junng its component vessels. In this dissection the phrenic artery Trace the and nerve will be found in front of the root, together with a few small nerves (anterior pulmonary) ; the last are best seen on the left «(le. Behind the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches ; and arcliing above the right one is the large azygos vein, and azygos vein.