DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 284 median. Superficial nerves of forearm and back of hand are— internal cutaneous; external cutaneous; external cutaneous of musculo- spiral; radial nerve, ending by external and internal branches, which supply digits; nearly to tlie elbow; here it bends forwards to join the inner brancln of the median and form the basilic vein. The MEDIAN VEIN takes origin near the wiist by small branches which are derived from the jxilmar surface of the hand. It is directed along the centre of the foreann nearly to the elbow, and there divides into median-basilic and median-cephalic, which unite> as before seen (fig. 80,'^), with the radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a large communicating branch from the deep veins beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves. Some of the superficial nerves of the fore- arm are continued from the arm :—those on the inner side from the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and those on the outer, from the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and tlic- musculo-cutaneous. On the fore part of the limb there is occasionally a small ofi'set of the ulnar nerve near the wrist. On the back of the hand is the termination of the radial nerve, together with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE (p. 272) is divided into tflO. The anterior branch extends on the front of the forearm as far as tlie wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the ulnar nerve. The ijostcrior branch continues along the back of the forearm (ulnar side) to the lower part. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (cutaneous part; p. 278) is pro- longed on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, over which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel, and supply the cai"pal articulations. A little above the middle of the forearm the nerve sends backwards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the ■no'i.st, and communicates with the radial and the following cutaneous nerve. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE (p. 272) descends along the hinder part of the forearm as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the preceding nerve. The RADIAL NERVE ramifies in the integument of the back of the hand and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches :— One (external) is joined by tlie musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is distributed on the radial border and the ball of the thumb. The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger; so that the radial nerve distributes the same nximber of digital branches to the dorsum as the median nerve furnishes to the palmar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves ; and the offset to the con- tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve.