DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 300 Divide annular liga- ment, and open sheaths. Synovial sac surrounds tendons. Superficial flexor tendons in the hand insertion ; slit for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor cross the hand to their insertion. Short folds to both flexor ten- dons. Lumbrical muscles : origin; insertion ; relations; and use. Tendon of A longitudinal incision is tn Le made through the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring tlie muscles that arise from it^ and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally, the sheaths of the fingers may he opened in order to show the insertion of the tendons. Flexor tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded hy a large and loose synovial nieml)rane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an offset into the digital sheath of the thumb, and sometimes one into that of the little finger. Flexor sublimis. The tendons of the fiexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all four are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the digital sheaths (fig. 86, e) ; and each is inserted by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, abont the centre. As it enters the sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but opposite the lower half of the first phalanx it is split for the passage of the latter tendon. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- brical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards the sjTio%ial membrane and areolar tissue should be taken away. Flexor profimdus. At the lower border of the annular ligament the tendinons mass of the flexor profundus is diAnded into four pieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the index finger is distinct from the rest. From the ligament the fom- tendons are- directed tlirough the hand to the fingers ; and in their com-se they give origin to the small lunibricales muscles. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed through that tendon, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Between both flexor tendons and the bones are short folds of the synovial membrane, one for each. By means of this each tendon is connected with the capsule of the joint, and the lower part of the phalanx immediately above the bone into which it is inserted. The lumbricales (fig. 88, i) are four small muscular shps, whicli arise from the tendons of the deep flexor near the amiular. ligament; the outer two springing each from a single tendon, while the inner two are connected each with two tendons. They aie directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into th expanded extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 86, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for a short distance Ijetween the processes of the palmar fascia. Action. The lumbricales assist in bending tlie metacarpo- phalangeal joints ; and by their insertion into the extensor tendons they straighten the interphalangeal joints. Tendon of the flexor lonrjus ])ollicis. Beneath the annular ligament