377 LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRiE. and being tightly confined by the surrounding lamina), it projects when two vertebrce and the interposed mass are sawn through. Placed nearer the back than the front of the disc, it is more marked situation, in the loins and neck than in the dorsal region. It has a yellowish where , . . , , • largest, colour, and is dehcient in the stratiform arrangement so conspicuous at the circumference. The surfaces of the vertebrso in contact with the disc have a Cartilage . coveriu''' cartilaguious covering, which may be seen by cutting the inter- bones. " vertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but it is wanting towards the circumference. The discs are thicker between the lumbar and cervical, than Thickness between the upper and middle dorsal vertebrae ; and in the loins and neck, where the spinal column is convex forwards, they are °^ deepest at the anterior edge, being wedge-shaped. The tliickest piece of all, and the most wedge-shaped, is between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. Use. The intervertebral discs form the chief bond of union They bind between the several bones of the column ; and by reason mainly of togettier,"^^^ their strength displacement of the vertebrte is a rare occurrence. In the movements of the spine the vertebrae revolve around the central pulpy portion of the discs; and the extent of the move- ment between two segments of the column is limited by the circumferential laminar portion of the discs. Through their wedge-shaped form the discs are chiefly instru- render mental in giving rise to the convexity of the spine in the loins and convex, neck ; and by their elasticity they moderate the efi^ect of jars or shocks transmitted through the column. The total thickness of the discs amounts to about a fourth of the add to length of the moveable part of the spinal column ; but as they yield xmder pressure, the height of the body will be shorter from half an inch to an inch in the course of the day, according to the fatigue undergone. Ligaments of the neural arch and processes. The articular Several processes of the vertebrae are connected by synovial joints with the^arch*am[ surrounding capsules ; the neural arches are united by yellow piocesses. ligaments ; the spinous processes have one band along their tips and others in the intervals between them ; and some of the transverse processes are joined by fibrous bands. /oints of articular processes. Between the articulating processes Articular there is a moveable joint, in which the bones are covered with Sd's^uoS cartilage, and are surrounded by a capsular ligament, enclosing a mjmvial membrane. The capsules are loosest in the cervical, and strongest in the lumbar region. Movement. In these gliding joints the articular processes of the Motion in vertebra) move to a limited extent over one another, the direction of the motion being determined by the form and inclination of their .surfaces. The kinds of movement permitted in any portion of the column are thus dependent upon the characters of the joints between the articular processes. The movements are freest in the cervical