DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 460 fascia, and skin. The taxis. How known from exter- nal : impossible if it is larrre. Sti'ictiu'e situation ; to free from stricture ; in large hernia. Earer kind of internal hernia is oblique in direction with the cord. Coverings are same as in external hernia. Diagnosis not possible in life. fascia. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of an intenial hernia are the same as those of an external; and in kind the only differences are that tlie covering of transversal is fascia is not furnished by the infundibuli- form process, and the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall, and the straightness of its course, should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind of hernia. Diagnosis. This rupture will be distinguished from external hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and l)y the neck being placed close to the pubis. When an inguinal hernia has attained a large size, it is impossible to tell by an external examination whether it began originally in the triangular sj)ace, or at the internal abdominal ring ; for as an ex- ternal hernia increases, its weight di-ags inwards the internal ring into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling acc[uires the appearance of a direct rupture. Seat of stricture. The stricture in this form of liemia occurs most frequently outside the neck of the tumour, at the ojjening that has been formed in the conjomed tendon, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum ; and it may occasionally be found at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided ^dthout in- jury to the p)eritoneum; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put back into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In dividing the stricture on a large ruptm-e appearing to be direct, the cut should be made directly ujDwards in the middle of the front of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, the position of which cannot be ascertained. Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia(superior) occurs through that part of the area of the triangular space wliich is external to the conjoined tendon. The intestine protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to the epigastric arterj^, and descends along nearly the whole of the inguinal canal to reach the extenial abdominal ring ; so that the term " direct" would not ai3ply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Coverings. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal canal, it has the same coverings as an external hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the transversalis fascia (but not the infundibuliform fascia), and the subperitoneal fat Avith the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This form of internal hernia would be considered external during life from its course and its form ; and yet it nnist be remembered that the epigastric vessels are placed on the outer part of its neck, while in the hernia which it simulates they lie on