224 DISSECTION OF THE liEAIN. struotuve. Dissection. Origin of fornix. Dissection. Mid-train. Lamina (luadri- gemina. Aqueduct ol' Sylvius. Quadri- geminal bodies : siii)erior, inferior. Biacliia. •superior qiinclrigemiiial body (fi^. GO, h) and cru.s cerebri, being covered by the pia mater : internally it forms a considerable pro- minence called the ^jitfemar; and below and outside this is a smaller oval elevation named the external geniculate body. In the section that has been made on the right side (fig. 66), the optic thalamus is seen to be composed of dark grey matter ; but it appears white on the iT]3per surface, the gi-ey substance being here covered by a thin medullary layer. A faint Avhite line, -which bifurcates in front, divides the grey mass into three poitions—a small anterior, and larger internal and external nuclei. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus may now be followed out. As a preparatory step the anterior com- misstu-e, the front of the corpus callosum, and the commLssure of the optic nerves should be cut along the middle line, so that the fore parts of the hemispheres can be separated from one another. On the left hemisphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced down- wards through the grey matter of the third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and thence upwards into the optic thalamus. The anterior lyillar of the fornix is joined below the foramen of Monro by the fibres of the tajnia semicircularis and pineal stiia, and then curves downwards and backwards in front of the optic thalamus, through the grey matter of the third ventricle, to the corpus albicans. Here it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, furnishing a Avhite envelope to the grey matter of that body. Finally it ascends to the fore part of the op)tic thalamus, in the anterior nucleus of which its fibres end. The bodies lying behind the third ventricle, viz., the corpora quadrigemina, the piaieal body, and the posterior commissure may be next examined. Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefully removed from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially on the right side, on which they are to be seen. The posterior part of the hemisphere of the same side may be taken away. The constricted portion of the brain between the optic thalami above and the pons and cerebellum below is kno^ra as the isthmus cerebri or miesencepludon, and occujDies, when the brain is in the skull, the aperture of the tentorium. The dorsal jDart of the mesencephalon is formed by a layer which is marked on the surface Ity four eminences—the corpora quadrigemina, and is therefore named the lamina quadrigemina. The ventral part of the mid- brain is much larger, constituting the crura cerebri which have already been examined. The lamina quadrigemina is separated from the crura in the middle by a canal—the aqueduct of Sylvius ; but on each side it is united with the tegmentum. The corpora quadrigemina (fig. 65) are four prominent bodies, an upper and a loAver pair, which are separated by a crucial groove. The superior eminence (nates ; h) is the larger, and is rather oval in shape. The inferior (testis ; i) is smaller, but more prominent, and rounded ; it is also whiter in colour than tlie ujiper one. From the outer side of each quadrigeminal body a wliite band, hrachivm,