294 DISSECTION OP FRONT OF FOREARM. Long flexor of thuii;b: oriRin : insei'tion. Parts above and benentli it. Use. Pronator quadratus is deep in position. Use. Anterior in- terosseous artery. Branches : muscular, median, medullary to the bones, and carpal. Anterior interosseous niirve ends in pronator. secondly, tlie last phalangeal joint; and tliirdly, tlie metacarpo- phalangeal. The FLEXOR i,ONGUS roLLiGifi (fig. 85, b) arises from the anterior surface of the radius, as low as the pronator quadratus, and from the outer part of the interosseous membrane; it is also joined in most cases by a distinct slip arising in common witli the lle.vor subliniis digitormu either from the internal condyle of the humerus or the coronoid process of the ulna. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumlj. The gxeater part of the muscle is covered by the flexor sublimis digitoruni; and the radial vessels rest on it for a short distance below. It lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. Action. This muscle is the special flexor of the la.st joint of the thumb, but it also aids in bending the other joints of that digit and the wrist. The PEONATOR QUADRATUS (fig. 85, d) is a flat muscle, covering the lower fourth of the bones of the forearm. It arises from the anterior siirface of the ulna, where it is somewhat widened, and is inserted into the fore and inner parts of the ladius for about two inches. The anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the digits, and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and u.lna with the intervening membrane, and. on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Along its lower border is the arch formed by the anterior carpal arteries. Action. The end of the radius is moved inwards over the uhia by this muscle, and the hand is pronated. The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY (fig. 85, e) is continued on the front of the interosseous membrane, between the two flexors or in the fibres of the flexor profundus digitorum, till it reaches an aperture in the membrane beneath the pronator quadratus. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the back of the caipus, where it ends by anastomosing v\dth the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Numerous off'sets are given to the deep muscles. One long branch, median (/), accompanies the median nerve, which it supplies, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or is con- tinued beneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. Above the middle of the forearm the medullary arteries of the radius and rdna arise from the vessel. Where it is about to pass through the interosseous membrane it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose ^^•ith the anterior carpal arteries. The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE (fig. 85, ^) is derived from tlie median, and accompanies the artery of the same name to the ]M'o- nator quadratus muscle, the under surface of which it enters. Branches are given by it to the deep flexor muscles.