JOINTS OF PHALANGES. 327 100. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the phalanx glides forwards over the head of the metacarpal bone, and leaves this exposed to form the knuckle when the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon are put on the stretch {»s the joint is bent. In extension, the phalanx moves backwards to slightly beyond the line of the meta- ctu'pal bone, so that the two form an obtuse angle. The anterior ligament and the flexor tendons are stretched, and limit the movement. Abduction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger from or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament of the side of the joint which is rendered convex is tightened, and the other is relaxed. The circumductory motion is less impeded in the fore and little fingers than in the others. In the joint of the thumb the move- ments, especially to the side, are much less extensive than in the fingers. Union of the Phalanges. The ligaments of these joints are similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, viz., two lateral and an anterior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form. Each is connected by its apex to the proximal phalanx at the side of the head ; and by its base to the distal phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament has the same mode of attachment between the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, but it is not so strong. There is a simple sijnovial membrane present in the joint. The joint of the second Avith the last phalanx is like the preced- ing in the number and disposition of its ligaments ; but all the articular bands are much less strongly marked. Aiiicular surfaces. The head of each phalanx is marked by a pulley-like surface. The base presents a hollow on each side of a median ridge, which fits into the central depression of the opposed articular surface. Movements. Tlie two interphalangeal joints can be bent and straightened like a hinge. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the distal phalanx moves round the proximal in each joint, and the motion is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon : in the joint between the middle and the metacarpal phalanx this movement is most extensive. In extension the farther phalanx comes into a line with the nearer one, and the motion is stopped by the anterior ligament and the flexor tendons. boULling ; exteiuliiig; lateral motion; circumduc- tory. Joints of this phalanges have lateral ahd anterior ligamenta. Synovial sac. Last joint. Surfaces of the bones. Kinds of motion : bending; extL'udiiiii