TEMrORO-MAXILLAllY ARTICULATION. S5 surface is in relation with tlic superior constrictor below, and the tensor ptUati above. The origin of this muscle embraces the lower part of that of the external pterygoid. Action. It acts with the masseter in raising the jaw. Temporo-maxillary articulation (figs. 20 and 21). This articulation is a compound joint, being formed by the condyle of the lower jaw and the fore part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, Avith an interposed disc of fibro-cartilage. The bones are united by the following ligaments :— The capsule is a thin membranous tube which is attached above to the temporal bone around the articular surface, and below to the condyle of the lower jaw, reaching farther down behind than in front. The cavity in the interior is divided into two parts, upper Use. Joint of lower jaw. Capsule of tlie joint. Fig. 20.' Fig. 21.t and lower, by the fibro-cartilage ; and the upper portion of the capsule is wider and looser than the lower. The external lateral ligament is a thickened band of the capsule, External composed of fibres passing from the tubercle at the root of the ^^^^^^^> zygoma and the adjoining j)art of the outer surface of that process to the outer and posterior part of the neck of the lower jaw. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 20, ^) is a long, thin, mem- and internal branous band, which is not in contact vn.th the joint. Superiorly it Inen?^''^'^ is coimected to a ridge on the inner side of the glenoid fossa, formed by the spinotis process of the sphenoid and the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the inner margin of the dental foramen in the lower jaw. The ligament lies between the jaw and tbe internal pterygoid ; and its origin is con- cealed by the external pterygoid muscle. The internal maxillary vessels, with the auric ulo-temporal and inferior dental nerves, pass between the band and the ramus of the jaw. Dissection. After the external lateral ligament and the capsule Dissection. * Ligaments of the jaw—inner view (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillary. t A view of the interior of the temporo-maxillary joint (Bourgery and Jacob), 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Intcrarticular fibro-cartilage: the dark intervals above and below the disc are the synovial cavities.