323 ARTICULATIONS OF CARPUS. Dissection. The articulations of the carpal bones with each other Dissection will be prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and ^*n?ai cleaning carefully the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the unciform and fifth meta- carpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the metacarpal "»eta- with the carpal bones, and with one another should be dissected. /oints! Bmes of the first roxo (hg. 98). The semilunar bone is united to How nrst the sciiphoid iind pyramidal by dorsal (d) and palmar transverse unTted. bands ; as well as by small interosseous ligaments at the iipper part of the contiguous sui'faces. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the pyramidal Separate^ by a distinct capsule and synovial sac. It has farther two special pisiform L'gaments ; one of these is attached to the process of the unciform, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The ho7ies of the second row (fig. 98) are connected together in the Second row . is like first, same way as those of the first, viz., by a dorsal (i) and a palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between Fig- 98.* the contiguous rough siu-- faces of the several bones are interosseoxis ligaments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flat- tened articiilar surfaces, and the short ligaments uniting one to another; and this is less in the se- cond than in the first row. One roio with another (transverse carpal joint; fig. 98). The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament (j)) consists of strong fibres, which for the anterior, most part converge from the three bones of the first row to the os magnum. The posterior ligament is thinner and looset; and its posterior, strongest fibres are transverse. Of the hteral ligaments the eoiernal (Ic) is the better marked, and and lateral extends between os trapeziimi and scaphoid bone ; the internal (l) ''g'"'"^"*"- paflses from the pyramidal to the unciform bone. A gliding movement. Transverse carpal joint: * Articnlations of the carpal bones, the joint between the two rows bein<' opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. h. Semilunar, c. Pyramidal, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium. /. Trapezoid, g. Os mapnm h. Unciform, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones, k. Hao«," . ■'^} ^'g^^cnt of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal lateral Ugament. p. Anterior ligament. Y 2