92 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY EEGION. hns ail ineisov ;nul laljiiil bnincli. Liugiial nerve courses to the tongue; no branch here. Chorda tympani joins lingual, ends hi tongne. Branch to internal pterygoid. sets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuHi)id teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a mental branch. The incisor branch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, where it ends in the bone ; it furnishes twigs to the cani:)e and incisor teeth. The mental branch, issuing by the mental foramen, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial artery. The LINGUAL or gustatory nerve (^) is concealed at first, like the others, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined forwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remamder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region (p. 97). In its course beneath the jaw the nerve does not give off any branches, but the following commimicating nerve is received by it. The chorda tympani ('') is a branch of the facial nerve, and leaves the t}Tnpanum by a special aperture close to the inner end of the Glaserian fissure. Appearing from beneath the upper attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, this small nerve joins the lingual at an acute angle, about three-qiiarters of an inch below the skull. At the point of meeting a commimication takes place with the Jingual, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is merely conducted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum, are described in Section XIV. The nerve to the internal pterygoid can now be seen as it passes beneath the hinder border to the inner surface of its muscle, but it will be more fully shown in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section XIV). Section VII. SUBMAXILLAEY EEGION. Parts in it. The submaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone. In it are contained some of the muscles of the hyoid bone and tongue, the vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position of Position. In this dissection the position of the neck is the same the neck. ^-^^ examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. JJissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it be taken away. Situation The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND (fig. 16, ") Hes below the jaw in the anterior part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Somewhat oval in shape, it rests on the mylo-hyoid, and