DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 670 Subcuta- neous I'at. Lay bare the plantar fascia. and the digital ves- sels and define the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia : division into parts. Central part divides into five pieces: termina- tion of the pieces. Inner piece of the fascia. Outer piece. Expose the septa. Two inter- muscular septa. tance from each border of the fo(jt, some small Lranches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat is very abundant, and forms a tliick cushion over the parts that press most on the ground in standing, viz., o\ cr the OS calcis, and the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Dissection. The fat should now be removed, and the plantar fascia laid bare. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between the loroccsses the digital nerves and arteries will, be detected amongst much fatty and fibrous tissues ; but the vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to define a transverse fibrous band across the toes, over the digital vessels and nerves ; and when this lias been displayed, he may remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantae fascia. The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different j)arts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and the existence of longitudinal depressions over the two chief intermuscular septa, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral pieces. The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corresponding ^vit'h an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side ; and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five processes,, which send fibres to the integuments near the web of the foot, and are continued ouAvards to the toes, one to each, '\^^lere the piec&s separate from each other, the digital vessels and nerves, and the lumbricales muscles become suj)erficial, and are arched over by transverse fibres. If one of the digital processes be di-\dded longitudinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to join the sheath of the flexor tendons, and to be fixed laterally into the margins of the metatarsal bone, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. The lateral pieces of the fascia are thinner than the central one. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer side it jsresents a strong band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision may be made along the middle of the foot through the central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor breads digitormn, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal jirocesses will appear on the sides of that muscle. The intermuscular se2)ta pass deeply on the sides of the flexor brevis digitorum, and a piece of fascia reaches across the foot from