DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 352 llclatioiis. branch. Left bi'iuicli Space at the bifurcation. Ligament of ai-terial duct. Arterial duct in loetus : course of the blood. The aoria extends through chest and abdomen. Its first part is arched. Extent and divi- sions of tlie ai'ch. First ri'rt : the lungs. The trunk of the pubnonaiy artery is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath its lower end i.s the beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular appeiidi.x. The right hrancJi is longer and somewhat larger than the left. In its course to the lung it passes outwards above the right auiicle oi' the heart, and beneatli the aorta and superior vena cava. Beliiiid it is the right broncluis. At the lung the artery divides into three primary liranches, one for each lobe. The left branch is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left Ijronchus to the fissure of the lung, where it ends in two branches for the two pulmonic lobes. As the right and left branches of the i)uImonary artery pass out- Avards, they cross the two bronchi diverging from the end of the trachea, and enclose with tliem a lozenge-shaped space Mliich: contains some Ijronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. Near the bifurcation of the jDulmonary artery a fibrous cord, about the size of a crow-quill, passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta. This is the remnant of the ductus arteriosus of the foetus, and is named tlie ligament of the arterial duct. In the foetus the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery are small, and the trunk is continued by tlie ductus arteriosus, which opens into the aorta beyond the origin of the last great bi'unch (subclavian) of the arch. The impure blood then jja-sses from the pulmonary artery mainly through the arterial duct into the aorta, below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, iu order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified. But after birtli, when the fiuiction of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the puhnonary artery instead of through the arterial duct ; and this tube becoming gradually smaller, is occluded by tlie eighth or tenth day, and forms finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The Aorta is the great systemic vessel which conveys the arterial blood from the heart to the clifi'erent paits of the body. It first arches backwards to reach the spinal column, along which it is then con- tinued downwards through the chest and abdomen. In the thora.x; the A'essel is divided into two parts—the arch of the aorta, and the descending thoracic aorta. Arch of the aorta (fig. 108). The aorta has its origin in the left ventricle of the heart, and curving backwards to the left of the windpipe and the gullet, forms an arch which ceases on the left side of the spinal column, at the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra. The arch has its convexity upwards, and its concavity to the root of the left lung ; and from it the large vessels for the supply of tlie upper part of the body take their origin. For purjioses of descrip- tion it is divided into three parts—ascending, transverse, and descending. The first or ascending parth al)out two inches in length, orsliglitly more, and is directed upwards behind, and close to the sternum : it