DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 cartilages. Take away in like manner the thyro-arytenoid, raising it from before back. By the removal of the last muscle an elastic and crico- membrane, crico-thyroid (fig. 44, comes into view ; and it will be membrane. ^^^^ continued upwards into, and give rise to the prominence of theinferior or true vocal cord. Lastly, dissect off the mucous meinbrani; from the vocal cords on tlie right side, and in doing this the waU of the ventricle and saccule, which are formed mainly by this membrane, will disappear. The vocal rords (fig. 42) are two bands on each side, which extend from the angli; of the thyroid to the aryte- noid cartilage, one forminf( the upper, the other th(^ lower margin of the ven- tricle of the larynx. Each consists of a fold of the mucous membrane supported by a ligamentous structure —the superior and inferior thyro-arjiienoid ligaments re- spectively. The superior or false vocal cord (c) is arched with its concavity downwards, and is much softer and looser than the lower. Its free border is thick and rounded. The con- tained superior thyro-aryteiioid ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, and is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage near the attach- ment of the epiglottis, behind to the middle portion of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. It is continuous above with scattered fibrons bundles in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Inferior The inferior or true vocal cord (b) is attached in front to the angle cord, q£ ^j^g thyroid cartilage about half way down below the notch, and behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. Between these points, it^ free margin, by the vibration of which the voice is produced, is straight, sharp and smooth. The cord projects upwards and inwards into the cavity of the larynx, and fonns the boundary of the vocal portion of the glottis. It is about seven lines long in * Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the larynx. A. Ventricle of the larynx, b. True vocal cord. c. False vocal cord. d. Sacculus laryngis. E. Arytenoid cartilage, f. Cricoid cartilage, o. Thyroid cartilage, h. Epi- glottis. K. Crico-thyroid membrane. L. Thyro-hyoid membrane. Fig. 42.*