347 LEFT VENTRICLE OF IIEAET. In the lulult the blood enters this Ccavity fvom the lungs by the Current of 2)uhni>nary veins, and iiows into the lel't ventricle by the large „tiuit; opening between the two. In the foetus only a very small quantity i„ fretns. of blood passes through the lungs ; and the left auricle receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture in the se])tum (foramen ovale). Dissection. The left ventricle may be opened by an incision along Ho^w to^^ both the anterior and the posterior surfaces, near the septum; these yijutricle. are to be joined at the apex, but are not to be extended iipwards so as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity -will be visible. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTBICLE (fig. 105) is longer and more Form of left • 1-1 PI • ■ ^ 1 • ventricle. conical m shape than tliat oi the opposite ventricle; and is oval, or almost circular, on a transverse section. The apex of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The base -^P^x. is turned towards the auricle ; and in it are the openings into the Base with aorta (u) and the left auricle (I). openmob. The u-all of this ventricle is thicker than that of the right, and the anterior boundary is formed for the most part by the septum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- inner sur- sequence of the projection of the colunmse carnese; but near the n'eshy great artery (aorta) the surface is smoother. There are three sets columns, of fleshy columns in this as in the right ventricle; and the musculi papillares, which give attachment to the tendinous cords of the ^{^^fg valve, are strongly marked : these are arranged in two large bundles, ^"^"^^ ' Avhich spring from the right and left sides of the cavity. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is placed beneath the orifice ^^^^ ventri of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous band intervening cuiar aper- between the two. It is rather smaller than the con-esponding ^^^^^' aperture of the right side, being about three inches and a half in ^^^'^ circumference, and is longest in the transverse direction. The centre of the opening corresponds to the junction of the fourth costal position, cartilage of the left side Avith the sternum. It is furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- Mitral cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords : it takes its ^^'^^' name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring round the aperture, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its segments lie one before the other, with their segments; edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aoitic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior. Tlie mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office, sti-uctm-e; Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two primary segments. The chordae tendinece ascend to be attached to the valve attachment in the notches between tlie tongues ; and they end on the segments "'^ ' in the same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acta on both portions of the valve.