DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 400 Somispinalis is divided into semispiiialis ilorsi and semispi- nalis colli. Dissection of multifi- dus spijise. Origin of niultifidus spinje from pelvis. fromlunibar, dorsal, and cervical vertebrrc. Insertion into spines. Dissection. Rotatores dorsi: attach- ments. Relations of transverso- spinales; and use. the Bemi-spinalis; a middle portion, with Klips of intennediat& length—the nniltifidus spinu) ; and a deep set of vciy short fasciculi^ present only in the thoracic region—the rotatores dorsi. * The SEMiSPiNALis consists of slips which pass over four or five- vertehrte, and is subdivided into tlie following two parts, but the separation between them is not always distinct. * The semispinalis dorsi is thinner than the upper paii : it arises- from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebra) from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of last two cei"vical and upper four dorsal vertebrae. The semispinalis colli (fig. 122, g) arises from the traiLsveise processes of the upper six dorsal vertebrae, and is inseiied into the spines of the cervical vertebrre above the last, the atlas not receiving any slip. Dissection. The upper part of the multifidus spinse is to be prepared by the dissector of the head and neck. It will be exposed by cutting through the insertion of the semispinalis, and turning aside- that muscle. * Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosLs of the erector spinse must be removed. In the dorsal region the multifidus spinse will appear on detaching and reflecting the semisj)inalis from the spines. The slips by which the muscle is attached to the processes of the vertebrce should be defined and separated. * The MULTiPiDtrs spin^ reaches from the sacrum to the axis : it is larger below than above, and is smallest in the upper dorsal region. It takes origin at the pelvis from the back of the sacnua between the spines and the external row of processes as low as the fourth ajperture, from the jDosterior sacro-iliac ligament, from th& inner side of the j)Osterior superior spine of the ilium, and from the overlying tendon of the erector spinte ; in the loins it arises by large . fasciculi from the mamillary processes of the vertebree ; in the, dorsal region by thinner slips from the transverse processes ; and in the neck from the articular processes of the lower four- cemcal vertebrae. From these attachments the fibres are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, passing over from one to three vertebrae, to be inserted into the spinous processes from the axis to the last lumbar vertebra. * Dissection. To see the rotatores dorsi the slips of the multifidus shoiild be detached from the dorsal spines and turned downwards. * The ROTATORES DORSI are eleven short muscular slips in the dorsal region beneath the nniltifidus si:)in8e, from which they arc- separated by fine areolar tissue. Each arises from the upper and back part of a transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border of the neural arch of the A'ertebra next above. The first springs from the transverse i)rocess of the second vertebra. * The transverso-sjiinales are entirely concealed by the erector spinae and complexus muscles ; and beneath them are the lamina) of the vertebra), with the dorsal si)inal plexus of veins. Internally they rest against the sinnous j^rocesses and the interspinal nuiscles. * Action. The transverso-spinales of the two sides acting together