98 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. has roots from the lifth, facial and syinpa- tlietic, branches to gland. Chorda tyin- pani ; destination. Twelfth nerve above hyoid bone. Its branches supply mus- cles of tongue. Wharton's duct opens by frsEnuni lingUiB. Sublingual "land foniis a pro- minence be- low tongue, on the liyo-glossus muscle inunecliatiily above the deep jiart of the submaxillary gland, and is attached by two or three filaments to the lingual nerve. Connections vnth nerves—roots. The fibres of the sensoiy root are derived from the lingual, and of the motor root from the chorda tympani nerves, both joining the upper part of the ganglion. The synipttthetic root comes from the plexus on the facial artery. Branches. From the lower part of the ganglion five or six small offsets descend to the submaxillary gland ; and from the fore part other filaments are given to the mucous membrane of the moutb and Wharton's duct. Chorda tympani. Joining the lingual nerve clo.se below its origin (p. 92), the chorda tympani accompanies that trunk, but can be easily separated from it nearly as far as the tongue. Beyond that point its fibres are mixed with those of the lingual nerve. Near the submaxillary gland an offset is sent to the submaxillary ganglion. The HYPOGLOSSAL or TWELFTH NERVE in the submaxillary region is directed forwards across the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle and under cover of the mylo-hyoid. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossiis it enters the fibres of the genio-glossus, spreading out and dividing into munerous branches as it disappears. Branches. "Wliile resting on the hyo-glossiis, the twelfth nerve furnishes offsets to the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid muscles, as well as one or two communicating filaments to the lingual neiwe. Its terminal branches, within the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The lingual branches are long and slender, and some of them maybe traced forwards to the tip of the tongue. The GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL nerve (fig. 24,''), ajjpearing between the two carotid arteries, courses forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus, and ends under the hyo-glossus in branches for the tongue. (See the DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE.) The duct of the suhnaxillary gland (fig. 24,^), Wharton's duct, issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. About two inches in length, it is directed Tipwards and forwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and over the lingual nerve, to open on the centre of an eminence by the side of the freenum lingute : the opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along the duct. The deep part of the sub- maxillary gland extends along the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The SUBLINGUAL GLAND (fig. 24, n) is an almond-shaped body with its longest diameter, which measures about an inch and a half, directed from before backwards. It lies beneath the fore part of the tongue, between the genio-glossus muscle and the lower jaw, and resting on the mylo-hyoid. Its upper border is covered by the mucous membrane, which is raised into a fold along the floor of the mouth over the gland; and its inner end touches the one of the opposite side behind the syiuphysis of the jaw.