ADDUCTOR BREVIS MUSCLE. 625 {\s to cross the thigh-bones. Tn walking it helps the other adductors to jiroject the limb. With the femur fixed, the muscle props and tilts forwards the on pelvis, pelvis. Dissection. The adductor brevis nuiscle, with the obturator nerve Dissection and the profunda vessels, will be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the pectineus near the pubis, ^^^^^^^^^"^ and throwing it down, thp dissector may find occasionally the small nerve: accessory nerve of the obturator which turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip-joint and the obturator nerve are to traced out. The adductor longus is then cut adduc- to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nerve beneath : its tendon is to be detached from that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the branches of the profunda artery. Now the adductor brevis will be laid bare. A part of the obtu- *° ^^1^'°^^^. rator nerve crosses over this muscle to the femoral artery, and sends ; an offset to the plexus at the inner side of the thigh : a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath this adductor. The muscle should be sej)arated from the siibjacent adductor magnus, where the lower trace branch of the nerve with an artery issues. In this last step of the nerve^*'"'^ dissection, the student should follow on and in the fibres of the ad- and branch ductor magnus a slender articular branch of the obturator nerve ; joiilt"*^'^" this will afterwards be traced to the knee {p. 649). The accessory obturator nerve (Schmidt) is derived from the Accessory ODturfttoi* tnmk of the obturator, near the lumbar plexus (p. 537), and passes nerve, from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it turns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial branch of the obtm-ator nerve; it supplies an off"set to the hip-joint with the articular artery, and occasionally one to the under surface of the pectineus. The ADDUCTOR BREVIS (fig. 193, d) has a fleshy and tendinous Adductor origin, about one inch and a half in depth, from the front of the narrow at pubis below the adductor longus, and close outside the gracilis. It origin, is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line leading from the "'f<^<* 1 Ti 1 insertion. Imea aspera to the small trochanter. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus. Parts in with the superficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the profunda artery ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their in- sertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, behind, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve and a branch of the internal circumflex artery. In contact with the upper border lies and at upper the oliturator externus (f), and the internal circimiflex artery passes between the two. Action. This muscle adducts the limb with slight flexion of the Use on hip-joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts from the femur, it will ImrfixeT' balance and move forwards the pelvis. The OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 193, >) is a branch of the lumbar Obturator plexus (p. 536), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as s a nerve