529 COMMON AND EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERIES. internal mammary artery (p. 259) ; one, superior phrenic, accom- panies the phrenic nerve, and ramifies over the middle of the muscle; the other, musculo-phrenic, appears opposite the ninth cartilage, and supplies the upper costal slips of the diaphragm. The other parietal branches, viz., lumbar and middle sacral, are not learnt in this stage : the former will be seen after the lumbar plexus (p. 537), and the latter in the pelvis (p. 561). The COMMON ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 166, (J) is directed downwards Conmion and outwards from the bifurcation of the aorta, and divides into artery : two large trunks oj)posite the fibro-cartilage between the last himbar extent and vertebra and the sacrum ;—one of these (external iliac) sui^plies the termination; lower limb, and the other (internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed relations; obliquely on the vertebral colmim, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. .. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does usually n<> not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio- lumbar, or a renal artery. On 02:)posite sides the vessels have some differences. The right artery has the vena cava to its outer side above, and Difforences near its termination touches the psoas muscle. The companion vein rit-hl*^*" {p) is at first beneath, but becomes external to the artery at the upper part; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the superior haemorrhoidal and left vessels ; and its companion vein is situate to its inner side. It lies close to the psoas muscle tlu-oughout. The length of the common iliac artery ranges from less than half an inch to Variations four inches and a half ; but in the majority of instances it varies between one 'i lengtli. inch and a half and three inches (R. Quain). The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 166, h) is the first part of the External vessel leading to the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of joweHlmb ^ the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifui-cation of the common extent ami" iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it becomes '^"'ection; femoral. And its ilirection would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space between the symphysis pubis and the front of the iliac crest. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course to relations Poupart's ligament, and is covered closely by the peritoneum and ^oinj'"^*^ the subperitoneal fat. The right artery is crossed by the lower end ^^"'^ ' of the ileum, and the left by the sigmoid flexure. To its outer side is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's ligament where it lies over the muscle. A chain of lymphatic gfands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. Near its origin the artery is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and with other near Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends down along its inner side ; while the spennatic vessels, and the genital branch of the with nerve genito-crural nerve lie on it for a short distance. M M