667 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached externally to the inner border of the fibula ; but internally it joins the flexor longus musclo. <ligitorum without being attached to bone : it may be regarded as con- stituting a fibular origin of that muscle. Fibres of the flexor longus halliicis arise from one surface of the membrane, and of the tibialis l^osticus from the other. The rosTERioR tibial artery (fig. 205, e) is one of the vessels Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk (p. 646). It artery: extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower extent; edge of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar brimches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, course; but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. For the upper two-thirds of the leg the vessel is concealed parts cover- by two muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus; butandVlow; iu the lower third, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the integuments iind the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its upper half the trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the parts be- lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is ' the flexor hallucis. Between the heel and the ankle, the artery is placed between the under tendons of the common flexor of the digits' and special flexor of the ^™ment • great toe. Vense comites closely surround the vessel. The posterior tibial veins; nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but at the distance of about nerve; an inch it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a branches :— large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular branches enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus ; and an offset from the branch to the soleus pierces the attach- ment of that muscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. b. The medullary artery of the tibia arises near the beginning of Medullary the tnmk : penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous, of the leg. d. One or two small internal malleolar branches ramify over the Internal iimer malleolus. malleolar. e. A cotnmtmicating branch arises opposite the lower end of the Communi- tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor longus hallucis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. Sometimes there is a second loop between these vessels superficial to tlie flexor hallucis (fig. 205, /). Peculiarities. If the posterior tibial arto'ij is smaller than usual, or ^'^^ "f"