SUrERFICIAL VEINS. 283 be carried througli the skin along tlie niiddle of the front of the Jo^''||^ove t'livearni, as far as an inch beyond the wrist; and at its termination ;i transverse one is to cross it. The skin is to be reflected carefully irom the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves beneath ; and it should be taken also from the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along each margin to a little beyond the knuckles. The whole of the fore finger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be followed to the end. The superficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in the fat ; Seek the tLey have the following position, and most of them have been partly vesseis*and (.lissected :—Along the imaer side, with the ulnar veins, is the con- nerves in tinuation of the internal cutaneons nerve ; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side, with the radial vein, is the superficial part of the mnsculo- cutaneoiis nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, and inside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis which can be rendered prominent by extending the wrist, the small palmar branch of the median nerve should be sought beneath the fat. On the ulnar artery, close outside the pisiform bone, a small palmar branch of the ulnar nerve is to be looked for. At the back of the forearm the large external cutaneous branch behind, of the musculo-spii-al nerve is to be traced onwards ; and ofi'sets are to be followed to this surface from the nerves in front. On the posterior part of the hand is a plexus of superficial veins. ^^g^°pf*^Jfg Winding back below the ulna is the dorsal branch of the ulnar hand, nerve ; and IjTiig along the outer border of the hand is the radial nerve : these should be traced to the fingers. Cutaneous Veins. The superficial veins are named median, Subcuta- radial, and ulnar, from their position in the limb. neousAems. DoESAL PLEXUS OF THE HAND. This network receives the super- plexus on licial veins from both surfaces of the fingers; and from it, on the ' outer and imier sides, the radial and posterior ulnar veins proceed. The RADIAL VEIN begins in the outer part of the plexus above radial; riientioned, and in some small radicles at the back of the thumb. Ir is continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the ' iuter border as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic \i'\n by its union with the outer branch of the median vein 80, '). In many bodies a considerable branch passes from the I' AVer part of the radial vein to join the median vein on the front of 'lie foreaiTO. The ULNAR VEINS are anterior and posterior, and occupy the ulnar, f ront and back of the limb :— The anterim- begins near the wrist by the junction of small roots anterior 'm the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the il)Ow, where it opens either into the median-basilic or posterior ilnar vein (fig. 80,'''). The posterior ulnar vein arises from the inner part of the dorsal and postc- I 'lcxus of the hand, and is continued along the back of the forearm