DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 674 External (ii tcry lias a curved course; partly superficial, partly deep. Superficial part: relations: ■branches to lieel, to muscles, and outer side of foot. Plantar nerves also two. Internal nerve to three toes and a half; muscular branches; digital nerves are divided, ex- cept first. and give muscular ■branches, cutaneous and articu- lar offsets. The EXTERNAL ARTERY (/;) takes an arched course in the foot, with the concavity of the arch turned inwards. Tlie vessel iB firet directed outwards across the sole, and then oTjliquely inwards towards the root of the great toe, so that it crosses tlie foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz., from the inner side of the cal- caneum to the base of the metatarsal Irone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining portion, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 679). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor hallucis and the flexor bre'vds digitorum ; but for a short distance near its termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the os calcis, and the flexor accessorius ; and it is accompanied by vense comites, and the external plantar nerve. Branches. From the beginning of the arteiy two or three internal calcaneal branches arise. They perforate the origin of the abductor hallucis, and ramify over the heel, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the peroneal artery. Ofi"sets are also furnished to the muscles between which it lies ; and others turn round the outer border of foot to anastomose Avith the tarsal and metatarsal arteries. The Pla^ntar Nerves (fig. 207) are derived from the bifurcation of the posteror tibial trunk behind the inner anlcle. They are two in. number, Kke the arteries, and have the same anatomy as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar artery ; but the larger nerve lies with the smaller blood-vessel. The INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (') courses between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor hallucis, and gi'^'ing but few muscular offsets, divides into four digital branches (fig. 206, -, ^, for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fourth ; it resembles thus the median nei-ve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. Muscular offsets are given by the trunk to the short flexor of the toes (perforatus) and the abductor hallucis; and a few superficiid twigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the imier border of the foot. The branch (-) to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by two of these nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor brevis hallucis ; and the second gives a brancli to the innermost lumbrical muscle. Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being divided at the spot mentioned, supplies tlie contiguous sides of two toes, while the first belongs altogether to the inner side of the great