366 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. CEsophagus in the thorax, p<asses through diaphragm. Parts covering it, 'beneath it, and on sides. Three coats are in it. A muscular coat of external longitudinal and internal circular fibres. Fibrous layer. Mucous coat. Papillae and epithelium. in company with the Bupeiior intercostal artery, and joins the lower end of the vertebral vein. The (ESOPHAGUS or gullet is a hollow muscular tube, which extends from the pharynx to the stomach : the cervical portion hnn been described at p. 119, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing in the thorax to the left of the middle line, the gullet is directed beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta till near the diaphragm, where it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the oesophageal opening of that muscle. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it projects to the left of the airtube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is thence in contact with the pericardium as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax the gullet rests on the longi colli muscles and the vertebra; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the large azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the right intercostal arteries, as well as by the aorta near the diaphragm. Laterally it touches the left pleura above the arch, and both pleurae below, but the right much more extensively than the left. Below the bronchus the pneumo-gastric nerves suiTound the a3sophagus with their branches ; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact with it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the gullet be removed and distended with tow, it will be easy to show a muscular, an areolar, and a mucous coat, from without inwards. The musmlar coat is thick and strong, and consists of two layers of fibres, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the oesophagus the muscular coat is red, and composed of striped fibres ; but below this it becomes gradually paler, and the striped fibres give way to involuntary muscular tissue. The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal fibres, which form a continuous covering, and end below on the stomach. The fibres begin opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 131) ; and at intervals varying from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are interrupted by small tendons (to -j^ of an inch long) like the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle. The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above with the fibres of the pharynx ; they are more oblique at the middle than at either end of the oesophagus. The areolar or submucous layer is situate between the muscular and mucous coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. The mucous coat will be seen on cutting open the tube : it is reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- nected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. The surface is studded with minute papillae, which are however concealed by the thick, laminated, scaly epithelium.