DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 96 fibres of the tongue. Genio- glOBBUS. Origin. Insertion. Contiguous parts. Use. Lingual artery ascends to the tongue beneath liyo- glossus. Its branches are— to hyoid bone; to back of the tongue; to the sub- lingual gland : to the sub- stance of tongue. liingual veins. raises tlie hyoid bone, according to which end is lixed by other muscles. The GENI0-GL08SUS (genio-hyo-glossus, fig. -^3, •*) is a ihick, laii- shaped muscle, having its apex at the jaw, and its base at tlie tongue. It takes origin from the upper of the mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, tbi- posterior ])a8sing backwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate ones to the tongue from base to point. Lying close to the median plane, the inner surface of the niusclu is in contact with its fellow. Its lower border coiTespond.s to the genio-hyoid, and the upper to the frajnum linguaj. On its onUtv side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the hinder fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of the whole niurtcle tlie tongue is depressed, and hollowed along the middle. Tlie hinder fibres acting alone raise the hyoid bone and pi'otrude the tongue ; while the anterior retract the tip of the tongue. The LINGUAL ARTERY (fig. 18,/) arises from the external carotid opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone. At first it is directed forwards above the hyoid bone, and then upwards beneath the hyo- glossus to the imder part of the tongue (fig. 24) ; it ends at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ranine branche.<. Before it reaches the hyo-glossus, the artery forms a small looj;, with its convexity upwards, which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve; and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles also lie over the vessel, but are separated from it by the hyo-glossus. The trunk rests on the middle constrictor and genio-glossus muscles. It.^ brandies are:— a. A small hyoid hranch is distributed to the muscles at the upper border of the hyoid bone ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and Avith the hyoid branch of the superior thyi'oid artery of the same side. b. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of tlie tongue and the tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be diA-ided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards ti> the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums ami the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (fig. 24, ") is the terminal part of the artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the genio- glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends. Muscular oflsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue of the .same side. This artery is very tortuous, and is embedded in the museular The lingual artery is accompanied by two small vcmc comitcs, but the largest vein of the tongue is the ranine, which lies extoi-nal U< imu lUll