DISSECTION OF THE AliDOMExY. 444 Clean thv. cremaster. Parts covered by external oblique. Internal oblique muscle : origin from pelvis; insertion into the ribs and linea alba. Aponeurciis divides to enclose rectus, the libs back to the free border, and then through the insertion into the iliac crest. The muscle is to be thrown forwards as far as practicable, after the nerves crossing the iliac crest are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs aljove, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique at the upper part. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves issuing through it below, will be prepared. At the lower border of the internal oblique tlie cremaster muscle- on the cord is to be defined Pig. 138.* 139): it is about a.s wide as the little finger, and consists of lleshy loops Avhicli descend through the external abdominal ring. Its inner attachment is tendinous, and is easily taken away. Parts covered hy ilie external oblique (fig. 138). Beneath the external muscle are the internal oblique, wdth the ribs and tlie intercostal muscles. At the lower part of the ab- domen the muscle conceals the spermatic cord, and the branches of the lumbar plexus in the abdominal wall. The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 138, a) is fleshy at the side and aponeurotic in front, like the preceding ; but its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external oblique. The muscle arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum; c) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their destination :—The upper ones ascend, and have a fleshy insertion into the cartilages of the last three ribs, where they join the in- ternal intercostal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass forwards, with varying degrees of obliquity, to the aponeurosis. The ajmicurosis of the muscle extends from tlie thorax to the pelvis, and is broader above than below. For the most part it i» * A. Internal oblique muscle, b. Latissimus dorsi, cut. c. Part of the hinder tendon of the transversalis muscle, d. Poupart's ligament, e. Ex- ternal, P. Internal intercostals.