157 INTERNAL MUSCLES OF LARYNX. Fig. 41. The THYRO-ARYTENOiD MUSCLE (fig. 41) extends from the tliyroicl to the arytenoid cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded (above. The miiscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the jmiddle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the (crico-thyroid membrane. The fibres are directed backwards with •different inclinations :—The external {*) ascend somewhat and are inserted into the outer border of the arytenoid car- tilage. The internal fibres (^) are horizontal, and form a thick bundle which is inserted into the margins of the vocal Process and the lower part of the outer surface of that car- tilage. A few of the deepest jfibres of the miiscle -pass from Ifche outer surface of the vocal fjrocess of the arytenoid carti- lage to be inserted into the true vocal cord. The outer surface of the muscle is covered by the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner sur- face rests on the vocal cords, (and on the ventricle and jpouch of the larynx. Action. Thethyro-arytenoid (draws forwards the arytenoid cartilage, and causes the cricoid to move forwards and downwards, thus opposing the 13rico-thyroid miiscle, and lortening the vocal cords. It also moves inwards the Thyro-ary- tenoid muscle consists of outer and inner parts. ] Some fibres from aryte- noid carti- lage to vocal cord. Relations. Use. fore part of the arytenoid cartilage with the true vocal cord, so as to place the latter in the position necessary for vocalization. IThe short fibres passing from the arytenoid cartilage to the vocal ;ord will tighten the fore part, and relax the liinder part of the iord. The THYRO-EPiGLOTTiDEAN MUSCLE is a thin layer which varies nuch in its development in different bodies. Its fibres arise from, the thyroid cartilage in conjunction with the outer part of the thyro- arytenoid, and are directed upwards, covering the outer surface of the saccule of the larynx, to be inserted into the margin of the Thyro- epiglotti- dean muscle. * Internal muscles of the la:7nx. 1. Crico-thyroid detached. 2. Posterior irico-arytenoid. 3. Lateral crico-arytenoid. 4. Thyro-arytenoid, superficial )art. .5. Depressor of the epiglottis, consisting of fibres of the aryteno- spiglottidean muscle and others given off from the thyro-arytenoid. 6. Thyro- lyoid, cut. 8. Deep part of thyro-arytenoid.