VESSELS OF ABDOMINAL WALL. m inwards to the pubis, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjoined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen.* It is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath. Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen, On the side of the vessels in abdomen are some of the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the waii.'"'"'^ nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the epigastric and internal naammary vessels. And running along the crest of the ilium is the circumflex iliac branch. The INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES of the lowest two spaces issue intercostal between the corresponding ribs (p. 364), and enter the abdominal ^'"''^^i'*^- wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles : they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and forming anastomoses with the internal mammary, epigastric and lumbar arteries. Lumbar arteries. The anterior branches of the lumbar arteries Lumbar rfupply the muscles in the hinder part of the abdominal wall, and ^'^t^i'^^s- anastomose with the foregoing arteries above, with the circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries below. The highest artery accom- panies the last dorsal nerve below the twelfth rib, and is distributed with the nerve. From the lowest lumbar artery a branch passes to the integuments with the iliac part of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Internal mammary artery. The abdominal branch of this internal vessel (superior epigastric artery ; p. 259) enters the wall of the ^"^"J'"''^' ^' abdomen beneath the cartilage of the seventh rib. Descending in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel soon, enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epigastric artery. Branches are given to the neighbouring muscles and the overljdiag integu- ment. The EPIGASTRIC ARTERY (fig. 142, a) arises from the external iliac inferior nl)Out a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends epigastric in the sheath of the rectus, and above the umljilictis divides into artery: In-anches which enter that muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. As the artery courses to the rectus it passes beneath the spermatic relations cord (or round ligament of the uterus), and on the inner side of the abdomen! internal abdominal riag; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boimdary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneatli the transversalis fascia ; but it soon perforates that mem- l)rane, and enters the sheath of the rectus over the semilunar border at the posterior aspect. The branches of the artery are numerous, but inconsiderable in Branches: size :— a. The pubic branch is a small artery, which runs transversely pubic .joins obturator; * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, -which is joined by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times, and this is the most common arrangement, it is only a thickening of the transversalis fascia, with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle.