493 ENDING OF PNEUMO-GASTRTC NERVES. The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 483); but tlie derivation of tlie superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the f^^J^^^ crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- splanchnic 1 1 • nerve, lunar ganglion. ' The small ner ve comes through, the same opening in the diaphragm small, as the preceding, and joins the coeliac plexus. The smallest n&i-ve, Avhich is often absent, throws itself into the and , , smallefst. renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves end on the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, which extend along the ^'^^l^'^s °g small curvature, and over the front of the stomach ; these send ° offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and right, stomach near the upper border; it communicates with its fellow, and gives branches to the ccEliac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. Most of the viscera are now to be removed from the Prepare for abdomen, in order that the body may be turned for the dissection body"l?y of the back. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, removing I T .1-111 the viscera, are to be taken away together by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be removed from th.e abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and cutting the vena cava below the diaphragm. At the same time the left testicle, and the right kidney with the suprarenal body, should be removed for examination while the body is turned; the former can be taken out by cutting through the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing its vessels about the middle. Directions. Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- Directions tion of the back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual diL*ector. time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, which is described in Chapter V, p. 386. The rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the following Section. Section IY, ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between DeHnition. the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme. Dissection. To see the form, the stomach must be blown up mode- Separate and blow