371 UPPER SURFACE OF DIAPHRAGM. luiiJ^cular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of tlie sternum. There is not any Literal cutaneous offset from this branch, except ^vhen the second nerve is not as h\rge as usuah The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles ; and it frequently sends upwards a branch to join the first nerve. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 244). In front it ends like the others. The loiver five nerves resemble the foregoing in their course and Lower five branches in the intercostal sjjaces : their termination in the aljdominal wall is described on p. 449. Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre, of the muscle is Upper sur- tendinous, and the circumference is fleshy. In contact with the /iaphragm. upper surface are the lung with the pleura on each side, and the heart and pericardium in the middle : the phrenic vessels and parts touch- nerves pierce this surface, external to the pericardium. In the dia- 2)hragm are the following ajiertures ;—one for the oesophagus and the pneumo-gastric nerves, a second for the vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the large azygos vein, and a cleft on each side for the splanchnic nerves. Beneath it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. The arch of the diaphragm towards the thorax has been before Curve, referred to (p. 331). Directions. The dissector of the thorax now waits while the The dissec- examination of the back is made. Afterwards he is to learn the back°is i\o\r ligaments of the ribs and spine : a notice of these will be found in the following Section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments of the vertebrae, ribs, and sternum are included in this Section. Articulations of the Ribs. Each rib is united to the spinal Articuia- column at the one end, and to the costal cartilage at the other. S"' Between it and the spine there are two synovial joints, and two set^ of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the rib and the bodies of the vertebrae, and a second passing from the neck and tuberosity to the transverse processes of the vertebrse. The costal cartilages are connected to the sternum and to one and costui another by synovial joints and ligaments. cartilages. JJissection. For the purpose of examining the ligaments between To see the the nbs and the vertebrae, take a piece of the spinal column witli T/^V'T" inree or tour nbs attached. After removing the intercostal and >"ent«r other nmscles, and the loose tis.sue from the surface of the bones, the student wUl be able to define, as below, tlie ligaments passing B B 2