65 TIIYRO-HYOID MUSCLE. The inner border touches its fellow below, while the outer Relations, reaches over the carotid artery. The superficial surface is for the most part covered by the preceding hyoid muscles; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, the larynx, and the thyroid body. A transverse tendinous line frec[uently crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to draw downwards the larynx after Use. deglutition, but in conjunction with the following muscle it can also act on the hyoid bone. Like the stemo-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THTRO-HYOID MUSCLE ('fig. 15, forms a continuation of Thyro-liyoid the stemo-thyroid. Arising from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres ascend to the anterior half of the great cornu, and to the outer part of the body of the hyoid bone. On the muscle lie the omo-hyoid and the sterno-hyoid ; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. Action. It draws up the larynx towards the hyoid bone, as in Use. swallowing. The stemo-thyroid and thyro-hyoid together fix the thyroid cartilage for the action of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Directions. The remaining parts included in this section are the scaleni muscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, Math the cervical nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. The student may examine them in the order here given. Dissection (fig. 16). Supposing the sterno-mastoid cut, the fat Dissection and fascia are to be taken away from the lower part of the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the lower cervical vertebrae, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the of the sub- scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its f^l^ branches, but of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which course over and along it from the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of the remaining part of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found, except and its the superior intercostal, which is to be sought in the thorax iii front ^'"'^'^^^^^' of the neck of the first rib. On the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; and the dissector should follow down- wards from it a small cardiac nerve to the thorax. Only the origin and first part of the arterial branches can be now seen; their termination is met with in other stages of this dissection, or in the dissection of other parts of the body. Next the student should seek the small right lymphatic duct of right lym- that opens into the subclavian vein at its junction with the internal ' jugular. A notice of it wiU be given with the lymphatics of the thorax.