578 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. THE RECTUM. To prepare the gut. Recti\in is smooth; length; (iimensions. Same coats as in the rest of the intestine:— Peritonevun. Muscular coat has longi- tudinal and circular fibres. Mucous coat is thick and vascular ; folds in it, some are permanent; structure. Arteries: Dissection. The rectum is to be washed out, and then distended with tow ; and the peritoneum and the loose fat are to be removed from it. The lower end of the large intestine, which is contained in the pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth on the surface, the longitudinal bands of the colon being absent from it. It is about eight inches in length ; and its average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size is uniform as far as the lower extremity, where it is dilated, particularly in old people ; but the aperture of termination or anus is the smallest part of the gut. Structure. The rectum contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a submxicous, and a mucous stratum ; and the muscular and mucous coats have certain characters which distinguish this part of the intestinal tube. The peritonemn forms but an incomplete covering, and its arrange- ment is referred to in the description of the relations of the pelvic viscera (p. 547). The muscular coat is thick, and consists of two layers of pale or unstriated fibres, viz., a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The longitudinal, continuous with those in the bands on the colon, are here difi"used to form a stratum round the gut. The cir- cular describe arches around the intestine, and become thicker and stronger towards the anus, where they are collected in the band of the internal sphincter muscle (p. 420). The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and resembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; it is also thicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds ; but some near the anus are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are also three permanent folds (Houston) which are half an inch or less in depth, and contain circular fibres of the gut. The most constant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opi30site the base of the bladder ; another is placed on the right side of the intestine, towards the top ; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually dis- appears. Blood-vessels. The fn-im'es are supplied from three different sources, viz., superior hsemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hsemorrhoidal of the internal iliac, and inferior hasmorrhoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gilt ; but only the upjper hsemorrhoidal, which is the largest, re-