DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 128 Arclies 01' liiUars, anterior, )ioste)-ior. Constitti- ents of velum. Dissect levator and tensor on right half. On left, palato-pha- ryngctis, azygos uvnlse. and paliilo- glossus. Aponeurosis ot palate. Nine mus- cles in it. Descondiiig from the soft palate on each side of tlie fauces are the two folds of mucous membrane before refeixed to, containiug muscular fibres, and named the arches or pillars of the soft palate or fauces. The anterior pillar (i) springs from the anterior surface of the soft palate near the base of the uvula, and reaches to the side of the tongue rather behind the middle ; and the posterior (].), longer than the other, is continued from the lower border of the velum to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their temiination, they limit a triangailar space in which the tonsil lies. The soft palate consists of an aponeurosis, with muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous glands; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily dis- j)layed, but others require care in their dissection. On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft palate the elevator and tensor, are very plain. These have already been partly dissected ; but to follow them to their termination, let the uj^per attachment of the pharynx on the right side, and the part of the suj)erior constrictor which arises from the internal ptery- goid plate be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bai'e by the removal of the mucous membrane and a few muscular fibres covering its lower end. The tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the internal pterj^goid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evident. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should also be ascertained. On the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised with gi-eat care from the posterior surface of the soft palate, to obtain a view of the suj)erficial muscular fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus muscle ; and beneath them, close to the middle line, are the longi- tudinal fibres of the azygos uvulee. A slender musculai- bundle contained in the ridge of mucous membrane descending fi-om the extremity of the Eustachian tube is to be exposed and traced to its junction with the palato-pharyngeus. On the right side, a deeper set of fibres of the palato-pharjmgeus is to be followed beneath the levator and azygos muscles. The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the muscular fibres contained in the arches of the palate, and should follow these upwards and downwards. In order to see those in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres may not be visible. Aponeurosis of the soft palate. Giving strength to the velum is a thin but firm aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard jjalate. This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE are, on each side, an elevatoi' and tensor, which descend from the skull, with the palato-glossus