350 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Thickness of left ven- tricle, of riglit, and of septum : owing to the thinness of the wall. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers inwards and outwards. As the supei'ficial ones are raised, their fibres may be followed into the septum in front, and across the middle line into the wall of the left ventricle at the back. Thickness of ventricular walls. The wall of the left ventricle is in general nearly three times as thick as that of the right. Its thickest part is about one-fourth of its length from the base ; and at the apex it is very thin. The free wall of the right ventricle is of more uni- form thickness than the left. The sejatum is about as tliick as thc- wall of the left ventricle, excej)t at the upper end, in a small area close below the aortic orifice, membranous part of sep- tum. Fibres can be separated into layers by dissec- tion. Direction of fibres : external, middle, and internal. Course of fibres is obsciu'e. Fig. 107. tion is gradual, and many fibres pass across airother, and have to be cut to effect the separation. Over both ventricles the most superficial fibres are directed very obliquely from base to apex, and from right to left on' the anterior surface, from left to right on the posterior surface. Pro- ceeding iuwards, the obliquity gradually duninishes ; and in the centre of the wall the fibres are transverse. Within the last, iis the cavity of the ventricle is approached, the fibres become oblique again, but in the opposite direction to the external ones ; and the innermost fibres of all are nearly longitudinal. The attempt to truce the whole course of the bundles is, excei)t in the case of the superficial fibres, attended with great dillicultj-, owing to the interlacement, branching, and joining of the fasciculi * A diagram of tlie arrangement of the fibres in layei-s in the left ventricle. The dissection is carried through about two-thirds of tl)e thickness of the wall. 1 2, 3. Outer hvyers, the fibres of wiiich gradually l)econie less obliqne, 4'. Middle layer of transverse fibres. 5. Inner set of oblique fibres. 'Ihc deepest fibres, corresponding to 1 and 2 of the e.xterior, are not .shewn. where there is a very thru part from which muscular fibres are absent {pars membranacea septi). Arrangement of fibres. It has been shewn by the fore- going dissection that the di- rection of the muscular fasci- culi composing the ventricular wall varies at different depths from the surface, and that at. a given spot a number of layers may be separated, which are characterized l.iy the difference in direction of their fibres. Such a division into distinct layers is how- ever in great measure artifi- cial, for the change in direc- pass across from one layer to