394 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Complexus origin; iusei-tion ; tendinous inter- sections ; relations ; use. Dissection of the nerves of the neck : inner and outer branches first nen'e ; and the vessels : nerves and vessels in the dorsal region The COMPLEXUS (fig. 121, d) i« internal to the prolongations from the longissimiis dorsi, and converges towards its ialhm of tlie opiDosite side at tlie occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous slips from the transverse jirocesses of the upper six dorsal and seventh cervical vertebra}, and from the articu- lar processes of the succeeding cervical vertebrae as high as the third : it is also joined in most cases by one or two slips from tlie lowest cervical or upper dorsal spines. The lleshy fibres pas>^ upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the external occipital crest. The inner part of the complexus, having two ileshy bellies witJr an intervening tendon, is often described separately as the hiventer cervicis. Another tendinous intersection crosses the cutaneous surface of the muscle near the upper end. The complexus is concealed by the sj^lenius and trapezius. Alonji the inner side is the semispinalis muscle, with the ligaraentum nuch£e. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, thc semispinalis, and the j)osterior cervical nerves and vessels ; and the cutaneous offsets of two or three of the nerves perforate it. Action. Both muscles wUl move the head directly back. One will draw the occiput dowm and back towards its own side. Dissection of vessels and nerves (fig. 122). In the neck the nervet^ and vessels will be brought into view by detacliing the complexus from the occijoital bone and the spines of the vertebra), and raising it carefully from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle are the ramifications of the cervical nen^es, and the deep cervical and other vessels, surrounded by dense connective tissue. Each nerve, except the first, divides into an inner and an outer branch. Dissect out first the inner branches, which lie partly over and partly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle (g). The external branches are very small, and are given off between the transverse processes close to where the trunks ajjpear : they are to be looked for outside the complexus, entering the muscles prolonged from the erector spinte and the splenitis. The small first nerve is the most difficult of the set to find: it i? a short trunk, contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and will be best found by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the muscles around. The deep cervical artery is met with on the semispinalis muscle ; a part of the vertebral artery will be found in contact with the first nerve ; and the occipital artery will be visible crossing the occipital bone. * Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels wiU be readily displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse pro- cesses. External and internal branches are to be traced from each nerve and vessel into the muscles : some of the former have been seen in the iirterval betM'een the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi.