SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. 591 case if it were formed of continuous bone. The sacro-iliac articula- tion thus serves to give elasticity to the pelvis, and to diminish the effect of shocks passing to the spine. Two SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMKNTS pass from the side of the sacrum sacro-sciatic and coccyx to the hinder border of the hip-bone, across the space afe^t^"**' between those bones at the back of the pelvis : they are named great imd small. The great or posterior ligament (fig. 185, a) is attached above to large, the posterior inferior iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrum Fig- 185.* and coccyx ; and below to the inner margin of the ischial tu- berosity, sending forwards a prolongation (falciform process) along the ramus of the ischium. It is wide at the sacrum, and gets narrc)wer towards the lower end ; but it is somewhat ex- panded again at the tuberosity. The relations of this band are seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 644). The small OT anterior ligament S^/iLJ zjz^WI^^^^'^^ and small j (fig. 185, 6) is attached in- ternally by a wide piece to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the origin of the preceding band. The fibres are directed outwards, and are inserted as a narrow band into the ischial spine of the hip-bone. Its deep surface is blended with the coccygeus ; and it may be looked upon as being a fibrous portion of that muscle. Above it is the large sacro-sciatic foramen ; and below it is the small foramen of the same name, which is bounded l^y the two ligaments. By their position these ligaments convert into two foramina (sacro- apertures sciatic) the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones : the ^ openings, and the things they give passage to, are described with the buttock (p. 644). TJse. The sacro-sciatic ligaments, by holding down the lower part use. of the sacrum, serve to prevent that bone from rotating at the sacro- iliac articulation, under the influence of the weight pressing on its upper end in the erect position. The iLio-LUMBAR LIGAMENT is a Strong triangular band, which iiio-lumbar springs by its narrow end from the extremity of the transverse pro- I'gfl'^^ent: cess of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Directed outwards and somewhat Ijackwards, it spreads out to be inserted into the iliac crest for about an inch, opposite the back part of the iliac fossa. To the upper border of the ligament the anterior layer of the fascia lum- * Sacro-sciatic ligaments : a. Large, and h. Small.