INTERSPINOUS AND INTEETRANSVERSE MUSCLES. 401 will extend the spine ; and the muscles of one side can rotate the column in the cervical and dorsal regions, turning the face in the opposite direction. * Dissection. The multifidus spinas is now to be separated from Dissectioa, the cervical and lumbar spines to show the interspinal muscles. * The INTERSPINALES are arranged in pau's in the intervals interspinal between the spinous processes. They are most developed in the neck and loins. In the cervical region the muscles are small rounded bundles in neck; iittached to the bifurcated extremities of the spines from the axis do\vnwards. * In the dorsal region interspinal muscles are only present in one in dorsal or two of the lughest and lowest spaces. legion, * In the lurnbar region they are thin flat muscles, reaching the in loins; whole length of the spines, one on each side of the interspinous ligament. Action. These muscles help to extend the spine. ^^^^^ * The INTERTRANSVERSALES lie between the transverse process of Jnter- , , , transverse the vertebrae ; but only those m. the loms and the back are now muscles: .dissected. In the nech they are double, and resemble the interspinal muscles in neck; of the cervical vertebrae (p. 171). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles of small in dorsal size, and are found only between the four or five lower vertebrae. They are represented in the middle spaces by thin fibrous bands, which constitute the so-called intertransverse ligaments (p. 379). * In the lumbar region there are two muscles in each space. The in loins: outer set are thin flat muscles between the transverse processes. The inner muscles are rounded bimdles in a line with those of the dorsal region; they are attached to the accessory processes above, and the mamillary processes below ; and the highest is between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae. Action. The intertransverse muscles assist in bending the spine their use. laterally. * Dissection (fig. 123). To see the posterior divisions of the Dissection sacral nerves, it wiU be necessary to remove the part of the ngrves^^ multifidus spinae covering the sacrum. The upper three nerves are split into two each; their external branches will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and difficult to find. The lower two nerves are very small, and do not divide like the others. They are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinae. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower, by the side of the coccyx. * Sacral nerves (fig. 123). The posterior primary branches of Five sacral the sacral nerves are five in number. Four issue from the spinal canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the- D D