268 DISSECTION OF THE XJrPER LIMB. Joint with acromion: capsule, flbro-carti- lage, and synovial sac. Use of joint. Ligaments of scapula. Posterior, and anterior— formed of two pieces; use. Dissection. Supraspina- tus: origin; insertion; relations; and xise. Dissection of supro- Acromio-clavicular articulation. The articular surfaces of the I clavicle and acromion process of the scapula are connected together I by a capsule, which is thick above (superior ligament), but very thin below. An interarticular fibro-cartilage is sometimes present at the upper part of the joint; and occasionally it forms a complete septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial cavities in the ; joint; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be I opened to see the cartilage and the synovial sac. I Movements. Tliis articulation allows the scapula to change its position in relation to the clavicle when the former bone is moved, either in gliding over the surface of the thorax, or in being rotated i| with the elevation and depression of the arm. Scapular ligaments. The special ligaments of the scapula are . two in number, and extend from one point of the bone to another. i The suprascapular ligament (^) is a narrow band stretching across 1 the notch in the upper border of the scapula. By one end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the border behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, | through which the suprascapular nerve passes. The coraco-acromial ligament (^) is triangular in form, and extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its apex into the tip of the acromion; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the A outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the ' capsule of the shoulder-joint. The ligament consists usually of two thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thinner intervening part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder-joint, which prevents the head of the himierus being displaced upwards. Dissection. To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion process is to be sawn through, and to be turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle ; but in a repetition of the dissection of the upper limb, the bone may be left uncut for the purpose of seeing the use of the coraco-acromial arch, A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle; this is to be taken away after it has been observed. The SUPRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 78, a) has the same form as the hollow of the bone which it fills. It arises from the smface of the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, except over the neck, fr'om the upper side of the spine of the bone, and fr'om the fascia covering its surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion process; and it rests upon the scapula, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and the shoulder-joint. Its tendon joins that of the infrasj)inatus at the attachment to the humerus. Action. It comes into use with the acromial portion of the deltoid in raising the limb and supporting the joint. Dissection (fig. 83). The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of