INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 143- the mucous membrane, glands and gmns receive their vessels fix)m it. The nasal or spheno-palatine artmj enters the nose through the nasai^j^^^^ spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches. Some of these are distributed on the spongy bones, and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, naso-palatine or artery of the septumnasi, runs on the partition. °^^*°^|^P- between the nasal fossse to the incisor foramen, through which it ' anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth ; this branch accompanies the naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with ntimerous ramifications. The pterygo-palatine is a very small branch which, passing back- P*^'^|°- wards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the Eranch; lining membrane of the pharynx. The Vidian or pterygoid branch is contained in the Vidian canal Vidian ■with the nerve of the same name, and ends on the mucous mem- ^"^a^^^- brane of the Eustachian tube and the upper part of the pharynx. Some small nasal arteries are furnished to the roof of the nasal Other nasal fossa by the posterior ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 46). Also the anteror ethmoidal (internal nasal, p. 46) enters the cavity with the nasal nerve, and ramifies in the lining membrane of the fore part of the nasal chamber as low as the vestibiile ; a branch passes to the face between the nasal bone and the cartilage with the nerve. Other ofisets from the facial artery supply the nose near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanying the terminal branches of the in- Veins to temal maxillary artery enter the alveolar plexus in the spheno- pie^g^.'^ maxillary fossa (p. 89). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose the veins have a plexiform arrangement, as before said. Facial nerve in the temporal bone (fig. 35). This nerve Facial nerve, winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is fol- lowed with difficulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection. The trunk of the nerve is to be found as it leaves the Dissection Btylo-mastoid foramen, and from this point it is to be followed up- ^^Jbone wards through the temporal bone. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through vertically between the meatus audi- torius extemus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the lower part of the aqueduct of Fallopius from behind. The nerve mil be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed forwards by cutting away with the bone-forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be opened, and the chain of bones in it exposed. The nerve is to be traced onwards along the inner side of the and iu tympanum, until it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards