DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 542 To roiiiovf liip-bonc : iletaeli fascia, saw bone, and divide soft parts. Tlien blow up bladiler and distend otlier parts. Outlet of pelvis is closed bv pyrit'orinis, by coccy- geus and sacro-sciatic ligament, with vessels and nerves, by levator ani, and by triangular ligament. Coccygeus; origin : insertion relations of surfaces and borders; use. Dissection. To obtain a side-view of the pelvis (fig. 1G9), it will be necessary to remove the left hip-bone. The obtui-ator fascia and great sacro-sciatic ligament are first to be detached, and then the bone is to be sawn through, in front about three-quarters of an inch outside the symphysis pubis, and behind at the articulation witlj the sacrum. After the bone has been pulled somewhat away from the rest of the pelvis, the ischial spine, with the recto-vesical fascia attaclied to it, may be cut off with a bone-forceps; and the loose piece may then be removed by cutting through the fibres of the iliacus and pyriformis muscles, and any other structure that may retain it. A block is afterwards to be placed beneath the pelvis. The bladder is to be moderately distended with air through the uretei-, and the urethra is to be tied. Some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina if it is a female pelvLs ; and a small piece is to be placed in the pouch of peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent without distension, the ischial spine and the recto-vesical fascia should be raised with hooks while the levator ani (d) and coccygeus (c) muscles below it are cleaned. Parts closing the pelvis below. In addition to the recto-vesical fascia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each side, between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student v/ill meet with the pji-ifoimis passing through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, with the gluteal vessels and nerve (fig. 168, (/a and sgn) above it. Next comes the coccygeus muscle (fig. 169, c) on the small sacro-sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx ; one border of the muscle is contiguous to the pyriformis, the other to the levator ani ; and between its upper border and the pyriformis lie the great sciatic and pudic nerves ('• with some other branches of the sacral plexus, and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the pelvic outlet is closed by the levator ani, (d) which extends forwards from the coccygeus to the symphysis^ pubis. It meets its fellow behind, but the muscles of opposite sides are separated in front by the urethra, with the vagina in the female ; and the intei-val between them is closed by the triangular ligament of the perineum (h). The COCCYGEUS muscle (fig. 169, c) is flat and triangular, and has much tendinous substance mixed with its fibres. It arises from the upper part of the ischial spine, and some fibres are attached to the adjoining part of the obturator fascia. Widening as it passes inwards, the muscle is inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lowest jjiece of the sacrum. The inner surface looks to the pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum : the opposite svuface is in great part covered by the small sacro-sciatic ligament, to which it is closely united. The upper border is contiguous to the pyriformis muscle, vessels and nerves intervening ; and the lower meets the levator ani. Action. This muscle helps the levator ani in supporting and