UEETHRA AND TENIS. 551 ■with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned wliere downwards and backwards, is greatest immediately below the triangular Ligament in the erect jDOsture of the body ; and from this pouit it ascends to the bladder, but is directed nearly horizontally forwards to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres : Voluntary thus, above the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of luutary tlie prostate ; witl lin the ligament by the voluntary constrictor ^^'^.j'.^j^j^^j j^; urethra), with a thin involuntary layer inside tliat muscle ; and below the ligament by the voluntary ejacnlator urinae. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perineal liga- ment (/i), and lies between the layers ; and it is largest in the middle of the prostate. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be com- Dissection, pletely removed, to see the components of that body ; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra ■will be better seen. The .skin should be replaced after the penis has been learnt. The PENIS is attached to the fore j)art of the j)elvis, and hangs in Consti- front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies situation of (fig. 170, e) named corpora cavernosa, which are filled Avith an 1^*^°*^ • areolar structure containing blood. Below these is a soft spong}' substance (corpus spongiosum) wliich surrounds the ui'ethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. The legumentary investment, which covers the whole, is noticed at p. 439. The body of the penis is rather prismatic in shape. The upjjer ^°,™(.j*",e„t surface is slightly grooved along the middle line ; and the lower rounded border is formed by the corpus spongiosum, which is received into a larger groove between the corpora cavernosa. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa to the bone, the body of the penis is comiected with the front of the symphysis pubis ])y the suspensory ligament (p. 439). The corpus spongiosum urethrce encloses the urethral canal beyond Corpus the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a **P°'^S'osuiu \-ascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part—the surrounds bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of s\TCn"tnto'^ the penis, wliere it swells into the conical glans penis. The bulb (fig. 170, d) is directed backwards below the mem-the buii>, Ijranous part of the urethra, and is firmly united to the under surface of the triangidar ligament. The ejaculator urinaj muscles cover it. This enlargement presents usually a slight central de- whicli is pression, Avith a bulging on each side, forming two lateral lobes. i>Uoijatc, The glans penis (fig. 178, I) is somewhat conical in form, and and tiie <;overs the truncated ends of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is ""ailrleuis directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border ° —the corona glandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, i'vom the apex to the base. In the apex is the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that ai)erture is an excavation, which contains tlie fold of skin named Jranum prapidii.