115 LEFT SIDE OF NECK. Branches for distribution. These consist of nerves to the tliyroid ijyanches of hody, together Avith the middle cardiac nerve. diHtribution. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid artery, thyroid and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across mid.iie the subcla\aan artery; its termination in the cardiac plexus will be nerve, learnt in the chest. In the neck it communicates mth the tipper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size but ilTegular inferior in shape, and lies over the interval between the first rib and the trans- ^^^^ ^ verse process of the last cer^dcal vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it extends in front ^^g""^.^]^ '^^ of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other Brandies to nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming the vertebral plexus nerves aud aroimd it, and communicatinfr with the cervical nerves. vertebral Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, issues and inferior from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, ° joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of Directious. the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half. Section X. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, the Directions, differences between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be only made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the Dissection anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The tri^iWc of description of tlic right side (pp. 58 to 65) is to be used for the neck! " anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoid, and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scaleni nuiscles and the subclavian vessels are to be of scaiei.i, learnt. The dissection and description of the muscles on the right "".l^/artoly • side (pp. 65 to 67) will serve for those on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct arches over the part of the subclavi an artery of thoracic internal to the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a I 2