EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE HERNIA. 467 somewhat longer and narrower. In that sex it lodges the round liganiont. The internal abdominal ring (fig. 142) is an aperture in the Internal ,. „ . , . , . . ^ ° . ^ , , \i 1 • abdominal transvorsalis fascia, which is situate midway between the symphysis ri„g. pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above situation, Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form ; and its longest diameter, form and which is directed vertically, measures about half an inch : the fascia ^^"^s^^ > at its outer and lower jiiarts is stronger than at the opposite sides. Arching above and on the inner side of the apertui-e is the lower relations; border of the traiisversalis muscle (d), which is fleshy in the outer but tendinous in the inner half. Below it is Poupart's ligament, which separates the aperture from the external iliac artery. On the inner side lie the epigastric vessels (a). This oiDening in the traiisversalis fascia is the inlet to the inguinal parts trans- canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into ™rou^li it. the wall of the abdomen. An external hernia enters the canal at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation (infundibuliform fascia) from the margin of the opening. The external abdominal ring (fig. 137, c) is the outlet of the in- External guuial canal, and through it the spermatic cord reaches the surface ^^g"."""'"^^ of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the situation, external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubis ; and from the margin a prolongation (spermatic fascia) is sent on tlie parts passing through it (p. 443). Coihrse and coverings of an external hernia. A piece of intestine The intes- leaving the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal ing the (■anal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every stratum of the wall of the abdomen in the groin, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its investments in this order :—-As the intestine is has cover- thrust forwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the p'^ritoneum subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the infundibuliform fascia and fat, (f) around the cord. Still increasing in size, it is forced downwards foscki^^^^^^'^ to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, wliere it will have the cremasteric fascia (c) applied to it. The intestine is next cremaster, directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, spermatic and in passing through that opening receives the investment of the su^pgriiciai intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends fascia and towards the scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the super- •' ticial fascia and the skin. In a hernia which has passed the external abdominal ring, the seven in (coverings from without inwards are therefore the following : the ' skin and superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascia;, the infundibuliform fascia, the subperitoneal tissue, and the peri- toneimt or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal how pro- and subperitoneal, originate as the gut protrudes ; but the rest are ready f(n-med round the cord, and the intestine slips inside them, 'i'he different layers become much thickened in a hernia that has ''xifitcd for some time.