137 OLFACTORY REGION AND NERVES. more flexible than that of the part above. The lining membrane of the vestibnle has the characters of the outer skin, being furnished with papilla) and hairs (vibrissa)), and lined by a stratified scaly epitheliimi. The respiratonj region is the part below the level of the middle Respiratory turbinate bone. Its mucous membrane is tliick, of a red colour, very vascular, and has numerous mucous glands, the openings of which are readily seen on the surface. The glands are largest and most abundant on the inferior turbinate bone, and at the lower and back part of the cavity. The epithelium of this region is columnar and ciliated. The olfactonj region is the narrowed upper part of the nasal fossa, oifactoi-y which is enclosed by the ethmoid bone. It comprises the part of region, the roof formed by the cribriform plate, the part of the septum (about one-third) formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and, on the outer wall, the upper and middle tui^binate bones, together with the flat surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid in front of the former. Over this region the oKactory nerves are dis- tributed, and it is, therefore, the seat of the sense of smell. The olfactory mucous membrane is thinner, softer, and less vascular than that in the respiratory region, and it has in the fresh state a yellowish colom'. Its epitheliimi is columnar, but not ciliated ; and it is thickly beset with simple tubular glands. In the sinuses the mucous lining is thin and pale, and its glands Mucous are few and small. membrane T-v • • AT- i> 1 T • 1 T T -n 1 Sinuses. Dissection. At this stage oi the dissection, but little will be Dissection seen of the distribution of the olfactory nerves. If the septum be °f nerves fiiicl vgssgIs removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the left side, the nervous filaments will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane, near the front of the septum, an ofi'set of the nasal nerve is to be found. The naso-palatine nerve and artery (fig. 33,^) are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine fossa ; the artery is readily seen, especially if it is injected, but the fine nerve is embedded in the membrane, and wiU be found by scraping with the point of the scalpel. By cutting through the fore and upper part of the membrane detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVES Spring from the under surface of the olfactory olfactory bulb as it Ues on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone "erves, (fig. 33,'), and descend to the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in this part of the roof. They are about twenty in number, and are divided into two sets. Those of the inner set are inner set, the larger, and run downwards in the grooves on the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, to be distributed over the upper third of the septum. The outer set (fig. 34) ramifies over the upper turbinate outer set. bone, the flat surface of the ethmoid in front of this, and the fore part of the middle turbinate bone. As the nerves leave the skull, they receive sheaths from the dura mater and pia mater, which are