386 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. of fiisciii reHectecl, the tli.sstictor of the abdomen can look to the disposition luiiibdium, q£ ij^g fascia liunbovum between the last rib and the hijj-bone. In the spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. After the removal of those muscles, the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumbormn) ajipears, and perforating it are two nerves : one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, with its vessels close to the iliac crest. to show Three layers of the fascia lumborum are to be demonstrated, in'it^'^^'"^* passing from the aponeurosis of the transversalis to the spinal posterior, column. The superftcial layer is already exposed, being formed mainly by the ai)onem-osis of the latissimus dorsi. To see the middle. middle layer, which passes beneath the erector 6j)inae to the trans- verse processes, the first layer is to be divided, with the attached porti(m of the latissimus dorsi, by a horizontal incision carried out- wards from the third lumbar sjjine. On raising the outer border of the erector spinas muscle, which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. iiTifl anterior. After cutting in the same way through this prolongation, another muscle, the quadratus lumborum, will be seen ; and on raising its outer border, the thin deepest layer of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. Lumbar The FASCIA LUMBORUM or LUMBAR APONEUROSIS Occupies the fascia, interval between the last rib and the iliac crest, and extends inwards derived from to the Spine. It is formed mainly by the posterior tendon of the te'rioiT'^^^^'^ transversalis muscle of the abdominal wall (fig. 140, c), but its superficial part receives important accessions from two of the muscles of the back. If the tendon of the transversalis be followed inwards, it will be found to divide at the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum into two layers, which encase that muscle; and the posterior of these again splits, or gives off a superficial process, at the outer margin of the erector spinee. There are thus consists of in the lumbar ajwneurosis three layers of membrane, forming with tiirec layers: ^j^g vertebrse tAvo sheaths, the one of which encloses the quadratus lumborum, and the other the multifidus and erector spinse muscles. iuiierior, The anterior layer is thin, and passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum to be fixed to the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrse near their tips, .•uid middle The middle layer is the direct continuation of the transversalis ilrocesses; tendon, and lies between the quadratus lumborum and the erector spina3 muscles ; it is fixed to the exti'emities of the transverse processes. posterior to The 2^ost<irior ov mperjirial laijer is the thickest, and is attached i.mccsses. internally to th» spines of the lumbar vertebrce. In this layer are united the aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior muscles, with only a small offset of the tendon of the trajisversalis. * Sfx'OKD Layer of Musclks (fig. 119). This stratum contanis