THE TONGUE. U7 canal lodging the muscle. The branch for the tensor palati (") arises t^^aor from the front of the ganglion, and enters the outer surface of its palati. muscle. The fibres of these branches are derived mainly from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle (^) arises from the inner Nerve of side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the skull, and penetrates ^eiygoid. the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is formed almost entirely by an offset from the motor root of the fifth. Directions. The remainder of the pterygo-maxillary region of the Directions, left side may be now examined. Section XY. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. The tongue and larynx are to remain connected with Directions, each other while the student learns the general form and structure of the tongue. Dissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have Dissection, been detached on the right side may be shortened, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE is an ovoidal, somewhat flattened body, with the Tongue, larger end turned backwards, which occupies the floor of the mouth, Fom and and forms a part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. It is free situation, over the greater part of its surface ; but at the back, and at the posterior two-thirds of the under surface, it is attached by muscles and mucous membrane to the parts around. The tip of the tongue (apex) touches the incisor teeth. The base Relations of is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the ^P^^; ^'^^ epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane—a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum is convex, and in the anterior two- Upper thirds of its extent is marked by a median longitudinal groove or raphe, which terminates behind in a depression of variable depth, named the foramen ccecum. From the depression a slight lateral groove is directed outwards and forwards on each side for a short distance. The part of the tongue in front of the lateral grooves is Body, distinguished as the body, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth : its surface is covered with papillce. The posterior third or root of the organ looks into the pharynx ; and its Root, surface is smoother, although rendered somewhat irregular by projecting mucous glands and groups of lymphoid follicles, and by small apertures leading into recesses of the mucous membrane, j. The under surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous sur&ce.