105 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. luuscle, the. internal carotid is overlapped by the steruo-mastoid and covered by the common integuments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther back. But above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath ^^^"^ ^^"g^^'^^y^g. external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by the * styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Wliile in the neck, the internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, rests on 1.1 • p ii i 1 rectus. which separates it irom the vertebrte. Vein. The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being Position of contained in a sheath mth it, and placed on the outer side. Small vessels. Below the digastric muscle the occipital artery is of vessels, directed back over the carotid ; and the offset fro]n it to the sterno- niastoid may run down on the carotid trunk. Above the digastric the posterior auricular artery crosses the internal carotid. Nerves. Tlie pneumo-gastric is contained in the sheath between of nerves, the artery and vein, being parallel to them ; and the sympathetic, also running longitudinally, lies behind the sheath of the vessels. Crossing the artery superficially, from below up, are the hypoglossal, which sends the descendens noni downwards along the vessel; next the pharyngeal branch of the vagus ; and lastly the glosso-pharyngeal. Directed inwards beneath the carotid is the superior laryngeal nerve, furnishing the external laryngeal branch, together "^vith pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic. Close to the skull, the cranial nerves of the neck are interposed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic, and offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The cervical portion of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous; and it usually does not furnish any branch. Part in the temporal bone. In the carotid canal the winding course Part in of the vessel commences. The artery first ascends in front of the ^one.°'^^ cochlea and tympanum ; next it is directed forwards almost horizon- tally ; and lastly it turns upwards into the cranium through the foramen lacerimi. Branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid in the bone. While in the canal the artery supplies a small branch to the Offset to tlie ca^-ity of the tympanum. tympanum. The cranial part of the artery is described with the base of the Cranial part, skull (p. 19). The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN is COntuiUOUS with the lateral sinus internal of the skull, and extends from the jugular foramen nearly to the first rib. Behind the inner end of the clavicle it joins the subclavian to [oTnl sub- form the innominate vein (p. 71). ciavian; As far as the thyroid cartilage the vein accompanies the internal is outside carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid artery ; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close tliroughout, for near the skull there is a small intei-val between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a larger intervening space (p. 76), in which the pneumo-gastric nerve, with its cardiac branch, is found.