140 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Seek branches to the nose. Arteries. Ganglion of Meclcel. Situation and connec- tion with fifth nerve. Composi- tion. Branches. Nasal branches are— superior nasal, naso- palatine. Palatine branches are three. Large nerve the petrous ijortion of tlie temporal bone, and dividing the internal cai-otid artery ; and it is to be pursued on the surface of the tem- poral bone, beneath the ganglion of the lifth nerve, to the hiatua Fallopii: its j miction with tlie facial nerve "will be seen with the dissection of that nerve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering the outer surface of the detached mucous membrane opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), dissected before in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxillary artery with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. The SPHENO-PALATINE or Meckel's ganglion (fig. 34,') lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen, and is connected with the branches of the superior maxillary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate, for the most part, behind the branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior maxillary nerve, so as to surround only some of their fibres; and it is pro- longed posteriorly into the Vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion re- sembles the other ganglia in connection ■with, the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic ofl'sets or roots connected with it. The branches of the ganglion are distributed chiefly to the nose and palate, but small ofl'sets are given to the pharynx and the orbit. Other offsets or roots connect it with surroimding nerves. Branches to the nose. The nasal branches, from three to five in number, are very small and soft, and pass inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen ; they are distributed in the nose and the roof of the mouth. The superior nasal branches ramify in the mucous membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments reach the back part of the septum nasi. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius—fig. 33,^) crosses the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum, on which it descends to near the front of that partition. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being anterior to the right, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nen'es of opposite sides are distributed in the mucous membrane beliind the incisor teeth, and commimicate with one another. On the sejitum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth must be opened. Branches to the palate. The nerves of the jmlate, though con- nected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 100). Below the ganglion they are divided into three—large, small, and external. The large or anterior 'palatine nerve (fig. 34,') reaches the roof of