CUTANEOUS NERVES OF BUTTOCK. 031 Branches of nerve to the obturator extermis come from the tleep Jl^^^'^j^','.^'^ portion of the obturator, and enter the posterior surface of the muscle. Section 11. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Directions. Both this Section and the following one (to p. 658) Directions, are to be completed by the student in the time appointed for the .body to lie in the prone position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the thigh the l)ody Position of is placed with the face doAvn ; and the pelvis is to be raised by l)locks, until the lower limbs hang vertically over the end of the dissecting- table. When the body is turned, the points of bone marking posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen can be better ascertained. Dissection. The integument is to be raised from the buttock b}' Take up the jueans of the following incisions :—One is to be made along the ' iliac crest, and is to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwards and downwards across the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The Hap of skin thus marked out is to be thrown down. Many of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in seeic cuta- the fat along the line of the iliac crest (fig. 194). Thus, in front, orthVcS but rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous, if these have not been cut in the dissection of the thigh. Crossing the crest towards the fore part is a large off'set of the last dorsal nerve; and usually farther back, but close to the bone, a smaller branch from the ilio-hyijogastric nerve. At the outer border of the erector spinas are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacram and coccyx two or three offsets of the aini ijy side sacral nerves are to be looked for beneath the fat. of sacuim. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small other nerves sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the °ciatic" lower incision, Avhere they come from underneath the gluteus beh)w: inaximus. Some turn upwards over that muscle, and others are dii'ected downa the thigh. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will serve as cutaneous guides to their situation. iirteries. Cutaneous Nerves (fig, 194). The nerves distributed in the Sources of integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are ^,c^!I;"s'; derived from the last dorsal nerve, from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the posterior primary divisions of the luml)ar and sacral nerves. The LAST DORSAL NERVE («) Supplies the buttock by means of its from last lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). This off'set perforates the muscles '