305 INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. The iKTEROSSEOUS MUSCLE!?, SO named from their position between the metacarpal bones, are seven in number. Two muscles occupy each space, except the fii-st, where there is only one. They arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanges of the fingers. They are divided into palmar and dorsal ; but all are seen in the palm of the hand, though the former project more than the othei-s. The palmar muscles (fig. 89), three in number, are smaller than the doi-sal, and have each a single origin from the side of the Seven inter- osseous muscles, divided, into palmar and dorsaL Palmar go to index, ring and little fingers. Fig. 89.* Fig. 90.+ metacarpal bone of the finger to which it belongs. The first is placed on the idnar side of the index finger, the second and third on the radial side of the ring and little fingers respectively. The do7-sal muscles (fig. 90), one in each space, arise by two heads from the lateral surfaces of the metacarpal bones between which they lie. The first (abductor indicis) is inserted on the radial side of the index finger, the second on the radial, and the third on the ■ulnar side of the middle finger, and the fourth on the ulnar side of the ring finger. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 86, h) :— The fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the first or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the bone. Action. They bend the metacariio-phalangeal joints by their attachment to the first phalanx, and extend the two interphalangeal joints through their union with the extensor tendon. Dorsal: two to middle finger, one eacli to index and ring fingers. Common insertion of both sets. Action as flexors and extensors, * The three palmar interosseous muscles, a. Muscle of the little finger ; 6, of the ring finger ; and c, of the index finger. + The four dorsal interosseous muscles, d. Muscle of the index finger, c and/.- Muscles of the middle finger, (j. Muscle of the ring finger. X