259 INTERNAL MAMiMARY ARTERY. and rela- tions. The surface of the trianguhiris sterni Avill be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI .(tig. 76) is a thin muscle beneath the Ti^^^'f^iiari.s costal cartilages. It arises internally from the side of the ensiform process, from the back of the sternum as high as the third costal car- origin ; tilage, and usually from the inner ends of the cartilages of the lower two°or three true" ribs. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper ones also ascending considerably, and are inserted by fleshy slips into insertion ; the true ribs except the first and last, at Kg- 76.* the junction of the lione and cartilage : some of the fibres fre- ipently end in an aponeurosis in the in- tercostal spaces. In front of the muscle are the rib- cartilages and the in- temal intercostals, with the internal mammary vessels and intercostal nerves. Be- hind, it lies on the pleura. Its lower part is continuous with the transversalis muscle of the abdomen (fig. 76, b). The size of this muscle varies greatly, and one or more of the upper slips are frequently wanting. Action. The triangularis sterni assists in depressing the anterior Use. ends of the ribs, and acts with the interosseous internal intercostals in expiration. The INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY is a branch of the Suliclavian internal (p. 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first lib. artery'"''*' It is continued through the thorax, Ijdng behind the costal cartilages and about haK an inch from the sternum, as far as the sixth inter- costal space ; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (mus- courses culo-phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh cartilage, enters thmax'to ■ the sheath of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In the abdomen, chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the ijitercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the chain of stei'ual lymj^hatic glands. Its thoracic branches Brandies: are numerous but small:— «. A long, slender branch (comes nervi phrenici) arises as the superior artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm with the l''"'"'"^' phrenic nerve : this branch is seen in the dissection of the thorax. Small sternal branches supjjly the triangularis sterni, and small pos- raniify over the back of the sternum. From these, mediastinal sots^' ° * View from hehind of the triangularis sterni muscle, A. s 2