545 SIDE VIEW OF THE MALE PELVIS. The true ligaments of the bladder are two on each side, anterior Ligaments aiad hxteral, and are portions of the recto-vesical fascia. '^^ The anterior reaches from the back of the pubis to the fore |^g**5J','",'^j, part of the prostate and the neck of the bladder ; it is a narrow- white band, and encloses muscular fibres of the bladder. The lateral liijament is the side piece of the fascia, which is fixed yje'*^*""*' to the upper border of the prostate gland, and to the side of the bladder; bladder close above the vesicula seminalis ; from it an off"set is con- tinued inwards behiud the vesicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheath for those bodies. There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), which are derived from the periton6uni investing it, and will be described in the following Section. Ligametit of the rectum. On each side of the rectum is a strong ligament of wide piece of the recto-vesical fascia, which is attached externally to the iscliial spine of the hip-bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder. Section II. RELATIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions. If the student dissects a female pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 552. Contents and position (fig. 170). The viscera of the male pelvis Contents of are—the rectum, the bladder with the prostate and first part of the urethra, the lower ends of the ureters, part of the vasa deferentia, and the vesicular seminales. These have the following relative situation:— The rectmii (k) lies at the back of the pehas, and takes a curvec. and outline course in the hollow of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder (a) is pos^fon placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland [h) ; and the urethra, after perforating the last, curves forwards to the penis. The ureter {h) descends by the side of the rectum to the hinder part of the bladder; and the vas deferens (/) and vesicula seminalis {g) are between the bladder and rectum on each side. Some of these organs are partly invested by peritoneum'. Dissection. All the recto-vesical fascia, except the anterior true Take away ligament of the Ijladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum, ^il^jf Ves^^ The obliterated hypogastric cord from the internal iliac artery sels. should be followed forwards along the bladder from the back of the pelvis ; and the branches of the same artery to the bladder shoiild be cleaned. When the fat has been cleared from the rectum, with- out injuring its arteries, the pouch of the peritoneum, in which tow has been placed, will be brought into view, with the ujeter {h) passing to the bladder across its side. The bladder below the peritoneum is to be cleaned ; and the vas The several deferens (/) is to be followed down to the seminal sac. Take away ^^^^"^ '"""^ N N cleaned.