378 DISSECTION OK TJIK TIKJKA.X. region, cand least extensive between the upper dorsal vertebrai. By their overlapping, the articular processes also help in giving security to the spine ; and in dislocation of the vertebraB they arc generally broken off". )n!mei)tsof Ligaments of the arches. The ligamenta sabflava are small the lamina): rhomboidal sheets of yellow elastic tissue, which close tlie intervals between the neural arches at the back of the spinal canal from tlie Fig. 117.* Fig. lis.t extent; att-ftch- ments ; thickness. Ligaments of spines: suiiraspi- nous ; iind iutcr- .spiiious. axis to the sacrum. In each interval there are two ligaments, a right and a left, which meet in the middle hne, and extend from the root of the spine to the articular processes. They are attached above to the anterior or deep surface of the laminas of one vertebra, and below to the upper border and posterior surface of the laminaj of the next. They are thin in the neck, and strongest in the loins. Ligaments of the spines. Along the tips of the spinous processes of the dorsal and lumbar A^ertebrfe is a longitudinal band of ribres (fig. 118, —the supraspinous ligament. It is thickest in the lumbar region ; and it consists of superficial fibres which pass over three or more spines, and deep fibres Avhich unite adjoining bones. Many of the back muscles arise from it on each side. In the same regions there are also membranous interspinoits ligaments (fig. Ill, '') reaching from the root to the tip of the spinous processes. They are thicker and broader in the limibar than in the dorsal part of the column. * An inner view of the nenral arches of tlie vertebra;, with their intei-poscil ligaments. (Bourgery.) 1 and 2. Ligamenta subHava. + Ligaments of the processes of the vcrtcbrre, and of the ribs. (Bourgery.) ]. Supraspinous ligament. 2. Ligamentum subfiavum. 3. Posterior cobto- transverse ligament : on the opposite side the band has been removed and tlic joint opened. 4. Intertransverse ligament.