THE FASCIA LATA. 606 Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of the Ai',?^^*^^^';^ cutaneous nerves and vessels; and the largest hole is near Poupart's ligament, to permit the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the deep surface form septa between, ^i^^ and fibrous sheaths around, the several muscles. Two of the pro- muscles, oesses are larger than the rest, and are named outer and inner inter- nuiscular septa of the thigh: they are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensor of the knee. The position of these I)artitions is marked by white lines on the surface. At the top of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the prominent borders of the pelvis. Thus, it is connected externally with the iliac crest, at upper iind internally with the body of the pubis and the margin of the ^^"j"^ pubic arch. Behind, it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and coccyx ; and in front, to Poupart's ligament between the pubis and the iliac crest. Behind the knee-joint the fascia passes un- interruptedly to the leg ; but in front of the articulation it blends f^j^g^^^p^^''^ with an expansion from the extensor muscle, and is continued over the joint and the patella, though separated from that bone by a bursa, to be inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. On each side of the patella is a band of almost transverse fibres fj^gg of ° (retinaculum), which is attached to and supports the knee-cap. patella, The outer, thick and strong, is continuous externally with the ilio- strong, tibial band, and joins the insertion of the vastus extemus at its attachment to the patella : it guides the patella outwards when the joint is bent. The inner band, of slight strength, is fixed to the inner patella lower than the other, and unites with the insertion of the inner vastus. Dirediotis. The flaps of skin which were removed from the front Replace ^ of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nerves, are to be ^^^^ °^ ^ now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts ; and the .saphenous opening is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata (fig. 187, /) is an oval Saphenous aperture, which is situate rather internal to the middle line of the gi^uatiou thigh. It measures about half an inch in width, and one inch and and a haK in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at size; Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure about one inch and a half, and presents (when dissected) a well-defined margin. Internally, the saphenous opening has not any distinct margin, for "° defined the membrane here (called the pubic portion of the fascia lata) is inner side; continued outwards over the subjacent muscle (pectineus), and behind the femoral vessels, to form the back of tlie crural sheath. Externally, the fascia lata {iliac part) forms a semilunar border, on outer when detached, the concavity of which is turned downwards and Moifonn inwards. This edge is named from its shape falciform margin of the ™ai'gin, saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns) ; it is .superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the cribriform fascia. Traced upwards, the outer which joins edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of Poupart's uSent?''