THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. pofitorior median, lateral, and pos- terior intw- niediate. The cord is divided into antero- lateral column, Fig. 128. posterior column, ■with median and external parts, and com- inissm-e. Cord con- sists of grey and white matter. its whole length, and penetrates aboui one-third of the thickness of the medulla. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medulkrj'- substance bounds the fissure ; and at the bottom of it the white liljres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood-vessels. Along the back of the cord, also in the middle line, there in a narrow groove, from which a process of the pia mater called the posterior median septum extends forwards nearly to the centre of the medulla, separating the nervous substance of the right and left halves. Vessels of the posterior surface of the cord enter in the septum. The lateral furrow (fig. 128, d) is a shallow groove along the line of attachment of the fasciculi of the posterior roots. Between the posterior median and the lateral grooves another slight furrow, the posterior intermediate, may be seen in the upper part of the cord (fig. 128, e). Divisions of the Cord. Each half of the cord between the median sulci is divided into two by the lateral furrow (fig. 128, d) ; the j)art in front of that groove and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero - lateral column (a) ; and the part behind, the posterior column (b). The antero - lateral column (fig. 128, a) includes rather more than two-thirds of the half of the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attachment to the anterior roots (7c). This part of the cord is sometimes described as consist- ing of anterior and lateral columns, the two being separated by the anterior roots of the nerves. The posterior column (fig. 128, h) is situate between the lateral furrow (d), with the posterior roots of the nerves and the posterior median septum. In the cervical region, the posterior intermediate sulcus (e) marks off a small inner jjortion, which i? named the posterior median column (c) ; and the remainder is then distinguished as the jwstero-external column (b). A narrow central piece, the commissure of the cord, unites the halves between the anterior median fissure and the posterior median septum. Composition of the cord (fig. 128). A horizontal section of the cord shows more distinctly its division into halves, with the * A section of the spinal cord, to show its composition and divisions. In the middle line below is the anterior median fissure, and above are the posterior median groove and septum, d. The lateral sulcus, c. The posterior intermediate sidcus. Columns: a. Antcro-lateral. h. Posterior external, d. Posterior median. Composition: g. Grey crescent, surrounded by whit« fibres. A. Grey transverse commifssure, and i. Canal of the cord in it. j. Posterior, and k. Anterior root of a nerve entering the grey crescent.