DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 582 liiis columns and rugoe. Tliickuess. Three coats: mucous, muscular, iiml librous; also erectile tissue. Mucous membrane. Arteries. Veins are plexifonu. Nerves. Lymphatics. the position of the uterus in the anterior wall, instead of at the extremity of the passage, may he remarked; and the tube may be seen to extend farther on the po.stcrior than the anterior lip of the OS uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a longi- tudinal ridge both in front and behind, named colv/mns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ridges or rugee pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina is tliicker in front round the urethra than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall has a muscular coat, composed of un- striped fibres both longitudinal and circular, which is thin above, and increases in thiclmess below. This is lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered externally by a layer of connective tissue containing a dense network of veins. The prominence of the columns is mainly due to a collection of cavernous tissue between the mucous and muscular layers. The mucous membrane is continued through the lower aperture to join the integument on the labia majora, and thi'ough the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many mucous glands open on the surface, especially at the ujiper part. Blood-vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from the vaginal and uterine branches of the internal iliac (p. 559). The veins form a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves, see page 565. The lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels to the glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE UTERUS. Utei-us: form; dimensions upper end; the lower end is small, and has an opening; neck : The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its office is to receive the ovmn, and to contain the developing fcetus. This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 183), and the narrow end below. ; Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the measure- ments here given. The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum : the name f undus is given to the part of the organ above the attachment of the Fallopian tubes (e). The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse aperture of communication between the uterus and the vagina, named os uteri (os tincce) : its margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longer and thinner. Towards the lower part the uterus is con- stricted ; and the smaller portion is called the neck of the uterus