DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 14 (lifTerence on two .sides, and tribu- taries. Suladivisiou of the jugular foramen. Dissection. Cavernous .sinus has ners'es in outer wall; contains carotid artery ami .sixtli nerve tributaries find com- munica- tions. occipital protuberance, along the winding groove on the occipital, parietal and temporal bones, to the jugular foramen, Avhere it ends in the internal jugular vein. The sinus of the right side is generally- larger than the left, and begins at the torcular HerophiH (p. 10), forming the continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus. The left lateral sinus is mainly prolonged from the ending of the straight sinus, but it is also joined by a branch from tlie lower end of the superior longitudinal sinus, which crosses oblic£uely in front of the occij^ital protuberance. In some cases this arrangement is reversed, " so that the torcular Heropliili and the larger lateral sinus are placed on the left side ; and occasionally the torcular Herophili forms a common place of meeting (confluence) of the superior longitudinal, the straight and the two lateral sinuses. The lateral sinus is joined by some cerebral and cerebellar veins, and, ojiposite the upper edge of the petrous j)ortion of the temporal bone, by the superior petrosal sinus. It communicates with the occipital veins through the mastoid foramen, and often with the deep veins of the neck through the posterior condylar foramen. The jugular foramen is divided into three compartments by fibrous bands. Through the posterior opening the lateral sinus passes; through the anterior the inferior jietrosal sinus; and through the central one the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves. Dissection. To examine the cavernous sinus on the left side, cut through the dura mater by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve ; behmd the clinoid process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occij)ital bone. Bj placing the handle of the scalpel in the oi^ening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe or a blow-pipe will be required, in order that it may be passed into the difi'erent sinuses joining the cavernous centre. B. The CAVERNOUS sinus, which has been so named from the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The layer of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve; these lie in their numerical order from above dowai. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and is traversed by a network of slender fibrous cords. Thi'ough the space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by the sympathetic, "wath the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel ; but all these are separated from the blood in the space by a thin lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic veins from the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and some inferior cerebral veins. It communicates with its fellow of the opposite side by the intei^