MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 23 The internal Jih-es (palpebral part), paler and finer than the outer, rntnrnalor occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the out( r and inner sides paltf^™^ of the orbit. Internally they arise from the internal tarsal liga- ment : externally they end in the external tarsal ligament, by means attached at of which they are attached to the malar bone, and a few may Ijlend with the orbital part. Close to the cilia or eyelashes the fibres form Ciliary a small pale bundle, which is sometimes called ciliary. The muscle is subcutaneous; and its circumference is blended Relations, above with the frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supraorbital vessels and nerve; and beneath the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are joined occasionally by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The inner fibres cause the lids to aj)proach each, other, Use of inner shutting the eye; and in forced contraction the outer commissure is drawn inwards. In closing the eye the lids move unequally—the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. When the outer fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the outer ilbres. skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper lip accompanies contrac- tion of the outer part of the orbicularis, owing to the associated action of the levator labii superioris and zygomatic muscles. The CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII is beneath the orbicularis, near the Corrugator inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the inner part of the ^'^i'®'^^^" superciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed outwards between the bundles of the orbicularis to be inserted into the skin inserted into above the inner half of the eyebrow. It is a short muscle, and is distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Action. It draws inwards and downwards the mid-part of the Use. eyebrow, wrinkling vertically the skin near the nose, and stretching that outside its place of insertion. MascLEs OP THE MouTH. The muscles of the aperture of the Muscles of mouth consist of a sphincter; an elevator of the upper lip and angle of the mouth ; an elevator and depressor of the lower lip and angle of the mouth ; and retractors of the comer. Lastly, a wide muscle of the cheek closes the space between the jaws. The ORBICULARIS ORIS MUSCLE (fig. 6, ") surrounds the opening sphincter of of the mouth, and is united with the several muscles converging to mouth that aperture. It consists of two parts, inner and outer, which consists of diflFer in the appearance and arrangement of the fibres, like the P*""*^ • sphincter muscle of the eyelids. The inner part, the fibres of which are pale in colour and fine inner or in texture, forms a rounded thick fasciculus, which corresponds with the red margin of the lip. The fibres of this portion of not fixed the muscle, unattached to bone, blend with the buccinator at the ' corner of the mouth, and some pass from lip to lip. The outer part is thin, wide, and more irregular in form, and is outer or connected with the subjacent bone, besides its union witli the