263 DELTOID MUSCLE. Podtion. The exaiuinatiou of the muscles on the opposite sur- Position of face of the scapuhx may he next undertaken. For this purpose the limb is to be turned over; and a block, which is deep enougli to make the shoulder prominent, is to be placed between the scapula and the arm. Ditsedion. The skin is to be removed from the prominence of Dissection the shoulder, down to the middle of the outer side of the arm. After shoulder, its removal some small cutaneous nerves are to be found in the fat : —the upper of these descend over the acromion ; and a larger brancli comes to the surface about haK-way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, mp-aacromial, descend Cutaueous to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical plexus (p. 57). A cutayieous branch of the circumflex nerve (fig. 78, ^) turns forwards with, a small companion artery from beneath the posterior border of th.e deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two-thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and fascia are now to be taken from the fleshy Dissection deltoid, its fibres being made tense for the purpose. Beginning at J^u^c\e°"^ the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downAvards, following the direction of the coarse muscular fasciculi. As the posterior edge is approached, the cutaneous nerve and vessels escaping from beneath it are to be dissected out. At the same time the fascia may be removed from the back of the scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE (fig. 78, f) is triangular in form, with the Deltoid base at the scapula and clavicle, and the apex at the humerus. It • arises from the lower border of the spine of the scapula, from the origin, outer edge of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the front of the clavicle. Its fil^res converge to a tendon which is andinser- inserted into the rough triangular imjiression on the outer surface of the humerus, above the middle. The anterior border is contiguous to the X)ectoralis major muscle Adjacent and the cephalic vein ; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus i''''^'*^' and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle from the bones of the shoulder corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. At its insertion the tendon of the deltoid is united with that of the pectoralis major; and a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus is attached on each side of it. The middle or acromial portion of the deltoid is thicker than the it consists rest, and its fibres form large bundles which run obliquely between pirtsT*^ tendinoiis septa prolonged from the origin and insertion of the muscle. The anterior or clavicular and posterior or spinous portions are somewhat separate from the foregoing, and their fibres converge to the anterior and posterior edges respectively of the lower tendon. Action. Tlie acromial portion of the muscle raises the arm, wiiichhave abducting it from tlie body ; the clavicular part flexes the shoulder- JsesT*"'* joint, moving the ann forwards and inwards ; and the spinous part draws the ann backwards, or extends the shoulder-joint.