CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section I, PERINEUM OF THE MALE. Before the (liBBection pass cathe- ter. Place the body in position. and fasten upwards the legs. The surface limits. The anus, the raphd, hollow on side of anus, and folds and veins around that opening. Directions. The perineum may be allotted with, greatest advan- tage to the dissector of the abdomen ; and its examination should be made first, as the distinctness of many of the parts is destroyed soon after death. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student may jjractise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. While the body lies on the back it is to be drawn to the end of the dissecting table, till the buttocks project slightly over the edge ; and a block is to be placed beneath tha pelvis, to raise the perineum to a convenient height. The legs- are to be raised and kept out of the way by the following means :— After the knees have been bent, and the thighs raised upon the trunk, the limbs are to be fastened with a cord in their bent position. For this purpose make one or two turns with the cord round one bent knee (say the right) ; carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. When the position has been arranged, let the student raise the scrotum, and place a small piece of cotton-wool or tow within the anus, but without distending the rectum. Superficial limits and marking. The perineal space in the male is- limited, on the surface of the body, by the scrotum in front, and by the thighs and buttocks on the sides and behind. The skin of this region is of a dark colour, and is covered with hairs. In the middle line is the aperture of the anus, which is behind a line extending from the anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal pi'omincnt line or raphe, which divides the space into halves. Between the anus and the tuberosity of the hip-bone the surface is somewhat depressed over the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially in emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses numerous convergnig folds, but these are more or less obliterated by the position of the body and the distension of the anus; and projecting oftentimes