LATERAL VENTRICLE. 215 The lochj is beueatli the parietal lobe of the hemisphere, and Body: extends from the foramen of Monro to the splenium of the corpus oallosum. It is somewhat arched, with the convexity upwards, and ill its floor are seen the following parts, proceeding from without inwards :—1, the hinder portion of a pyriform mass of grey matter objects in named the corpus striatiun (caudate nuclexis ; e), 2, a deuder white band—the taenia semicircularis (/), 3, a narrow part of the optic thalamus {(j), 4, a vascular fringe of the pia mater—the choroid plexus ih\ and 5, a thin white layer—the lateral part of the fornix (o). It is bounded internally for a short distance in front by the "lesial limit, hinder part of the septum lucidum (h), and behind this by the meeting of the fornix and corpus callosum. The anterior comic projects forwards, witli an inclination down- Anterior wards and outwards, into the frontal lobe. In the floor are the °™" large anterior extremity (head) of the caudate nucleus and the 'boundai-ies. rostrum of the corpus callosiun ; its anterior boundary is formed by the genu of the latter body ; and internally it is separated from the cavity of the opposite side by the septum lucidum. The posterior cornu (o) is narrower and generally longer than the Posterior anterior, but its breadth and length vary much in different brains. '• It extends backwards into the occipital lobe, being curved outwards form; round the parieto-occipital fissure of the internal surface of the hemisphere. Along its inner side is an elongated white eminence— inner wall; the hippocampus minor (i) ; and the floor is formed by the hinder "'^'^ part of the eminentia coUateralis (/c). The inferior or descending cornu leaves the hinder part of the Middle body of the ventricle opposite the splenium of the corpus callosum, • and runs downwards and forwards in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, direction; describing a curve with the convexity outwards. In the roof are roof; contained the fibres passing from the hinder end of the corpus callosum downwards and outwards into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, together with the prolongations of the caudate nucleus and taenia senricircularis. The floor is formed mainly by a long and floor, curved eminence—the hippocampus major (^), along the imier margin of which is a thin band prolonged from the fornix—the tsenia hippo- campi, while to its outer side lies the tapering fore part of the eminentia collateralis. The choroid plexu.s is continued dowTiwards along the inner side to the lower extremity of this cornu. The septum lucidum (fig. 63, I) is placed vertically between the Septnm two lateral ventricles, beneath the anterior half of the corpus ^'^''"^'^^^ = callosum, to which its upper border is attached. It is triangular in shape, with the base turned downwards and forwards, and fixed to attach-"^ the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The posterior border is ™ents; oblique, and joins the fornix. Its surfaces look into the lateral ventricles, opposite the head of the caudate nucleus. Although so thin as to be translucent, the septum lucidum consists of two laminae which enclose a space—the fifth ventricle. Each lamina is a donbie is composed of white substance, with a thin layer of grey matter J.o"jt|^|°|J', mternally ; and the ependyma of the lateral ventricle covers its lirth'"""'^' outer surface. ventricle.