DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 52 hyoid bone thyroid, (iricoid cartilage, and supra- sterniil de- pression. Dissection of the pla- tysma. Platysma muscle arises at shoulder; inserted into jaw; covers triangle. TLse, Dis.section. the body of the hyoid bone may be felt, with its large comu extending backwards on each side. Below this is the prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami, which is more marked in the male sex ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Below the thyroid is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico-thj'roid membrane. Immediately above the sternum, and bounded on each side by the prominent sterno-mastoid muscle, is a narrow depression, the depth of which is much increased in emaciated persons, and in which the tube of the trachea can be recognised. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be felt by the side of the air tube. Directions. As the time for turning the body will not allow the examination of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare now only the part behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin from the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the sterno-mastoid muscle from the tip of the mastoid process to the clavicle one inch external to its articulation with the stenrum; from the U2:)j)er end of this carry a cut backwards two-tliirds of the distance to the external occipital protuberance, and from the lower end another cut outwards along the clavicle as far as the acromion. The skin is to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia, which will then be brouglit into view, contains the platysma ; and to see that muscle, it wUl be necessary to take the subcutaneous layer from the surface of the fibres. The PLATYSMA MYOIDES is a thin subcutaneous muscular layer, which is now seen only in its posterior half. The muscle is placed across the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fleshy fibres take origin from the subcutaneous tissue over the clavicle and acromion, as well as from that covering the highest parts of the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; ascending through the neck, the fibres are inserted into the jaw and the angle of the mouth. The lower part of the muscle is more closely united to the skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them transversely. The action will be found with the description of the remainder of the muscle (p. 58). Dissection. The platysma is to be cut across near the clavicle, and to be reflected forwards as far as the incision over the sterno- mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck; and he should dissect out the external jugular vein, with the