LACHKYMAL APPARATUS. 161 an expansion derived from that band, wliicli is fixed to the lachrymal crest. If the aponeurotic covering be removed, the mucous lining will appear. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct (") is the narrower part of the tube, and is about half an Canal icad- inch long. It is entirely surroiuided by bone, and inclines slightly uose.° ^^''^ outwards and backwards as it descends. In the nasal cavity it opens into the fore part of the inferior meatus, where its opening is its opening, guarded by a small fold of the mucous membrane. Within the bone, the duct has a fibrous coat lined by mucoiis Structure of membrane, which is continuous with that of the nose below, and tlu'ough the canals with the conjunctiva above. Directions. The examination of the eyeball may be omitted with Anatomy of eyeball more advantage till the dissection of the head and neck has been afterwards, completed. The description of the eye will be found in Chapter X. Section Y. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position. For the dissection of the right side of the neck let the Position of head be supported on a block of a moderate height, and let the face be turned to the left side and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the region, the right arm may be drawn tightly under the body, with the object of depressing the point of the shoulder, and putting the neck on the stretch. In some bodies, owing to a difference in the form of the neck, the best position wiU be obtained by j)lacing the upper limb over, instead of under the chest. Surface-marJcing. The side of the neck has a somewhat irregularly Boundaries quadrilateral outline, and is limited in the following way :— Below °[ f^^ ^^^^-^ is the prominence of the clavicle; and above is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front, the boundary is the middle line of the neck between the chin and sternum ; and behind, a line from the occiput to the acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus included is divided into two triangular spaces (anterior Division and posterior) by the diagonal prominence of the sterno-mastoid [h^uXs muscle. And in consequence of the position of that muscle the ^'y st?rno- base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; while the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno-mastoid is depressed at the iioiiows. upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; and behind the muscle, just above the clavicle, is another hollow which indicates the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the front of the neck the following parts can be recognised Objects in through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the chin, in "r S,""" the retiring angle formed by the outline of the front of the neck, 15 2