683 CUTANEOUS NERVES ON THE FRONT. ticial nerves on the front of tlie leg are derived mainly from branches Fis. 210. to the inside of the leg (p. 660). Branches enter it from the inner border and sole of the foot. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins on the outside of the little toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch; and it is continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 660). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 210). The super- and foot of the po- pliteal trunks, viz., from the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial nerves of the external popli- teal, and from the external saphenous nerve of the two popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets ]'amify on the front of the leg from the internal saphenous and external poj)liteal. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (-) ends on the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg mth a J. .// external saplienoiis. Source of the cutane- ous nerves. cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contigu- ous sides of the great toe and the next. The branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The inner branch (^) sends one offset to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and anothei- to the adjacent sides of the second and third toes: it communicates with the internal saphe- nous and the anterior tibial nerves. The outer branch (^) also divides into two nerves: these lie over the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the contiguous sides of the three toes corresponding with those spaces : it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve (') becomes cutaneous in the first interosseoiis space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo- cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supj^lying the same toes. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 203,"'^) comes from the back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe ; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the ofi'sets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it sujDplies botli sides of the little toe and part of the next. * Cutaneous nerves of tbe front of the leg and foot. 1. Anterior tibial. 2. Musculo-cutaneous, with 3, its inner, and 4, its outer jjlece. 6. Internal saphenous. 6. OfTsets of external popliteal. Musculo- cutaneous supplies most of tlie toes; divides into imier and oiiter branch. Anterior tibial, where found. External .saphenous.