434 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. To exposp, triiiiigulai- li};am(iiit. Triangular ligament. To see deep musc'.lo. Deep transverse muscle. Glands of Bartholin : shape and size; duct. Pudic vessels. Pudic nerve. Dissectim. To see tlie triangular ligament of the urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to he detached from the bone on the left side, and the corresponding half of the sphincter vaginas is to he removed. The TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT transmits the urethra, but is ncjl quite so strongly marked as in the male (p. 427) ; it is inteiTupted to a large extent in the middle line by the aperture of the? vagina. Dissection. By cutting through the superficial layer of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 428), the deep muscle, with the pudic vessels and their branches, and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris, will be arrived at. The TRANSVERSUS PERiNEi PROFUNDUS IS the representative of th<- constrictor urethras of the male. It arises on each side from the piibic and ischial rami. ; and the fibres are directed inwards to be inserted mainly into the side of the vagina. The hmdmost ones join the central point of the perineum ; and anteriorly some are con- tinued across from side to side in front of the urethra. Beneath the last is a circidar layer of involuntary fibres, as in the other sex. Glands of Bartholin. At the hinder part of the entrance to the vagina on each side is a yellowish glandiilar body, wliich corre- sponds to Cowper's gland in the male. It has the shape and size generally of a small bean, its greatest length, which is directed from before backwards, measurmg about half an inch. It lies close to the hinder end of the bulb of the vestibule, and is covered by the fibres of the sphincter vagina). The duct is directed forwards and downwards for about three-quarters of an incli, to open on the inner aspect of the nympha of the same side, immediately below the hymen or its remains. The description of the pudic artery (p, 429) wiU serve for both sexes, except that the branch to the bulb is small, and is furnished to the bulb of the vestibule. The temiinal branches are the artery of the corpus cavemosum and the dorsal artery of the clitoris, and are also much smaller than the corresponding vessels in the male. The PUDIC NERVE has the same arrangement as in the male. From its perineal division proceed the two superficial nerves, branches to the superficial muscles, and an offset to the bulb. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris is of small size.