ANATOMY OP THE URETER. 515 Blood-vessels. The avtcry and vein distributed to the kidney are Blood- very large in proportion to the size of the organ they supply. vessels. Eenal artery. Before reaching the kidney the renal artery divides Branching into four or five pieces ; and these in the sinus break up into aJtery.'^*'"''' smaller branches, which enter the organ between the papilloo. They run in the processes of cortical substance that separate the pyramids, being surroimded by sheaths from the fibrous capsule, and undergoing farther subdivision, until they reach the bases of the pp-amids. Here the branches form ai'ches, from which the minute offsets to the secreting structures are given off. Some twigs are supplied to the capsule of the kidney ; and these anastomose Avith the subperitoneal brairches of the lumbar arteries. Renal vein. The larger branches of the vein spring from arches Vein agree like those of the artery, and take a similar course through the artery, cortical septa to the sinus. In the neighbourhood of the hilum all are commonly united into one trunk, which joins the inferior cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced Nerves, to the smaller branches of the artery. The absorbents are superficial and deej). Both unite at the hilum Lymphatics of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The URETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the kidney Ureter; is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and termination office; the canal measures from fourteen to sixteen inches in length. Its length; size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the size varies, kidney it is dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pelvis; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest jDart of the tube. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. In its course from the one viscus to the other, the ureter is close Course beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the pelvis. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side and rela- towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the middle of the muscle it Ls crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or the external iliac artery, being beneath the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it inclines forwards below the level of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery to reach the base of the bladder (p. 549). Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance, doubie""^^^ Part in the kidney (fig. 162, b). Near the kidney the xireter is ureter dilated into a funnel-shaped part called the jJdvis. It begins in the dilated near kidney by a set of cup-shaped tubes, named calices or infundihida, caiices ' which vary in number from seven to thirteen. Each cup-shaped ^^j^j^jj^ process embraces the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, and receives embrace the urine from the apertures in that projection : sometimes a calyx ^'^P^^^'*^- surrounds two or more masses. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the pelvis. L L 2