BASE OF CEREBRUM. 203 consists of a layer of grey matter; and its cavity is a part of the third Yontricle. In the foetus this tul)e is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adidt it is closed below. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it has Pituitary been dislodged from its resting place : it should therefore be examined when opportunity offers in the base of the skull by removing the surrounding bone. Its use is unknown. It is situate in the hollow of the sella Turcica on the sphenoid Situation, bone, and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the larger, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid and firm in textm-e ; but in the fcetus it is hollow, and the posterior lobe opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. Dissection. To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior end of the Dissection, corpus callosum, the hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other in front. The lamina cinerea (m) is a thin concave layer of grey substance, Grey lamina, which gradually tapers upwards from the tuber cinereum to the terounation of the corpus callosum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated space. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain. The corpus callosum (n), bent downwards in front, is continued Corpus horizontally backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends by two white narrow bands—the peduncles of the corpus callosum, which are continued along the edge of the lamina cinerea on each side to the anterior perforated spot. The anterior ends below bend of the corpus callosum is known as the genu, and to the jj^nds prolonged central part the name rostrum is given. Laterally this and extends part of the corpus callosum reaches into the frontal lobe, and forms sphere^""" part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. Vallecula Sylvii and anterior perforated space. The vallecula Vallecula Sylvii is a depression between the optic commissiu-e and the fore part of the temjDoro-sphenoidal lobe of the hemisphere, which lodges the upper end of the internal carotid artery. Externally it leads into the Sylvian fissure, and in front it is boruided by the diverg- ing roots of the olfactory tract. The floor of the fossa is formed by a layer of grey matter wluch is perforated by the central Anterior branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, thus eivins- F.'^afli™*^'^ nse to the anterior perforated space. The grey substance is con- tinuous above with the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum. The Olfactory lobe consists of an elongated nerve-like part which Olfactory IS named the olfactory tract, and a tenninal expansion in front—the olfactory bulb. It lies in a groove (olfactory sulcus ; fig. 61, ol) on lies in the surface of the inner orbital convolution of the frontal lobe of the oi*''"'t"'T hemisphere. ^" The olfactory bulb (fig. 59, o) is an oval mass, of a greyish colour, olfactory and nearly lialf an inch in length, which rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. From its under surface the olfactory nerves arise.