DISSECTION OF THE ERAIN. 192 Median llssures, anturior and posterior. Sui'face con- stituents partly con- tinued from cord, partly new. Pyramid. The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median fissure in front and behind, in a lino Avith those of the cord. Tlie anterior median fissure is interrupted at tlie lower end of the medulla by some bundles of fibres which cross obliquely from one side to the othci-. and constitute the decussalim of the pyrmiids; above, it ends at the lower border of the pons in a dila- tation (foramen cajcum). The j^ns- terior median fissure is continued upwards from the cord through the lower half of the medulla ol^longata, and then terminates by the sepaiva- tion of its lateral boundaries to form the sides of the fourth ventricle. On each half of the medulla oblongata are elongated eminences, separated by slight gi-ooves, and continuous Avith the columns of the spinal cord ; but they receive difi'erent names in this part of their extent, and some fresh bodies are added. Thus, the part contmmng Lateral tract. the anterior column of the cord, by the side of the anterior median fissure, is known as the pyramid (fig. 54,^). The prolongation of the lateral column takes the name of lateral tract (^), the position of which is occupied in the upper half of the medulla by an oval eminence called the olivary body. Continuing the posterior column is the funicuhos euneatus (fig. 55, fc), which is separated from the lateral tract by a smaller eminence to which the name of funiculus of Rolando (R) has been given : in the upper part of the medulla these are succeeded by the restiform tody (fig. 54,^; fig, 55, rl) projecting outwards towards the cerebellmn. And lastly, between the funiculus euneatus and the posterior median fissure is the funiculus gracilis (fig. 55, fg) continued from the posterior median column of the cord. The pyramid (anterior) is placed between the anterior median fissure on the inner side and the lateral tract with the olivary body on. the outer side. It increases in size from below upwards, whence its name ; but at the upper end it is somewhat constricted and rounded just before it disappears beneath the superficial trans- verse fibres of the pons. This body is only in part prolonged from the anterior column of the cord, its inner j^ortion being formed by the decussating fibres seen in the anterior median fissure. The lateral tract in the lower half of the medulla oblongata is of the same wddth as the lateral column of the cord ; but above, it is * Medulla oblongata and pons from before. 1. Pyramid. 2. Lateral tract. 3. Restiform body. 5. Olivary body. 6. Decussation of pyi-amids.