8 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. of superior iiiaxillnry; of inferior maxillary, its auricular braucli; and of facial nerve. Posterior auricular nerve lias occipital brancli, and aiu'i- cular. Great aiu-i- cular nerve. Great occipi- tal nerve: junctions. tjiiiall occi- pital nerve lia« nn auricular branch. The TEMPORAL BRANCH OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (second trunk of the fifth) is a f-lunder twig (fig. 2, '"), wliich perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arcli. When cutaneous, the nerve Ls distributed on the fore part of the temple, and. communicates Avith the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next. The AURicuLo-TEMPORAL NERVE (fig. 2, cZ), a branch of the infeiior maxillary (third trunk of the fifth), makes its appearance with the temporal artery in fi'ont of the ear. As soon as it emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches. The posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the integument above the ear. The anterior branch ascends vertically to supply the skin as far as the upper limit of the temporal fossa. The nerve also furnishes an. auricular branch (upper) to the fore part of the ear above the auditory meatus. The TEMPORAL BRANCHES OP THE FACIAL NERVE are directed up- wards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles: they will be described with the dissection of the facial nerve. The POSTERIOR AURICULAR NERVE (fig. 2, ■*) lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it communicates "wdth the great auricular nerve, and divides into occipital and auricular branches. The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies close to the bone, enveloj)ed in dense fibrous structure. The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the posterior surface of the pinna. The GREAT AURICULAR NERVE of the cer^dcal plexus (fig. 2, ') is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The GREAT OCCIPITAL (fig. 2, ^) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the occipital artery. Springing from the posterior primary branch of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large ofi'sets; these spread over the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and terminate in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nerve; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The SMALL OCCIPITAL NERVE of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, ^) lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is continued Tipwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, viz., the posterior auricular and the great occiintal. Usually this nerve furnishes an auriculcor branch to the upj)er. part of the pinna on its cranial aspect.