231 STRUCTURE OF LAMINiE. stricted base of the amygdaloid lobe. It lies along the attached posterior margin of the inferior medullary velum. Structurk of the Cerebellum. The interior of the cerebellum consists of a large Avhite mass—the medullary centre, from which offsets iDroceed to the laminae and to other parts of the encei^halon. The medullary centre is surrounded, except in front, where the processes to other parts of the brain (peduncles of the cerebellimi) issue from it, by a superficial layer of grey substance—the cortex of the cerebellum ; and other small masses of grey matter are embedded in it. Structure of the lamince. The laminae are seen in the section that has been made of the under part of the left hemisphere to consist of a grey external portion enveloping a white centre (fig. 65). The Cerelsellum consists of a white medullary centre and grey cortex. Laminae are grey externally, and white within. Fig. 69.^ grey matter is subdivided into two layers, the superficial of which is lighter and clear, while the deeper stratum is darker and of a rust-colour. The white part is derived from the medullary centre, which sends off numerous processes to the lobes and the bodies composing the worm, and these, dividing like the branches of a tree, end in small offsets wliich enter the several laminae. Dissection. For the pui'pose of seeing the medullary centre, with Dissection, its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the laminae from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the anterior and posterior lobes of the upper aspect. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anteriorly till it is reached. The medullary centre of the cerebellum fomis a large oval mass in white each hemisphere, but is flattened and naixow in the middle between '^^^^^^ * View from behind of the under surface of the cerebelluui, with some of the lobes removed to show the inferior medullary velum, a. Uvula, h. In- ferior medullary velum with a bit of whale-bone under it. c. Flocculus. d. Furrowed band. e. Pyramid. /. Amygdaloid lobe, turned aside. g. Medulla oblongata raised, showing posterior surface.