HYOID BONE. 163 Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be Dissection, taken away so as to denude the liyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the membrane joining the hyoid bone to the thyi'oid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed. In the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. The HYOID BONE (fig. 43) is situate between the larynx and the Hyoid bone, root of the tongue. Resembling the letter TJ placed horizontally, Form, and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or comua on each side. The body (g) is elongated transversely, in which direction it Body- measures about an inch, and flattened from before back. The anterior surface is convex, and marked in the centre by a tubercle, on each side of which is an impression for muscular attachment. The posterior surface is concave and smooth. To the upper border the hyo-glossal membrane, fixing the tongue, is attached. The comua are two in number on each side—large and small. Comua, The large cornu (h) continues the bone backwards, and is joined to the body by an intervening piece of cartilage, or in old persons by continuous bony union. The siu?faces of this cornu look rather Upwards and downwards; and the size decreases from before back- wards. It ends posteriorly in a tul^ercle. The small cornu (j) is and small, directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament: it is seldom wholly ossified. It is united to the body of the bone by a synovial joint, with a surrounding capsrde. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 43). There are four large in larynx cartilages in the larynx, by which the vocal cords are supported, foi^'iarae viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytenoid. In ad- dition there are some yeUow fibro-cartilaginous structures, viz., and some the epiglottis, a capituhmi to each arytenoid cartilage, and a small f^^es ovalish piece (cuneiform) in each aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The THYROID CARTILAGE (b) is the largest of all: it forms the Thyroid front of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield, "'^^''''i^i^'^ The upper part of the cartilage is consideral;ly wider than the lower, and in consequence of this form the larynx is somewhat funnel-shaped. The fore part is prominent in the middle line in is convex in front, formmg the sulicutaneous swelling named xiomnm Adami, and concave behind, where it gives attachment to the epiglottis, and to concave ^ ^ ' behind. M 2