388 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. and termi- nation ; relations: use. Supra- scapular arterj-: coiu'se to shoulder : offset. Supra- scapular nerve. Transverse cervical artery divides into superficial cervical and posterior scapular. Accompany- ing veins. Nerve of rhomboid muscles. Third layer of muscles. Dissection. men. The fibres form a tliin, riband-like muscle, which is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid (p. 64). This belly is partly placed beneath the trapezius, and is partly superficial in the pos- terior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery, and crosses the brachial plexus and the suprascapular nerve. Action. For the use of the muscle, see page 64. The SUPEASCAPULAR ARTERY, a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), is directed outwards through the lower part of the neck to the upper border of the scapula. It runs behind the clavicle, and crosses the suprascapular ligament in front of the omo-hyoid muscle, to enter the supraspinouis fossa." Its termination on the dorsum of the scapula is seen in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 269). Before entering the fossa it gives oS" a supra^acromial branch, which perforates- the trapezius muscle, and ramifies over the acromion. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE is an ofiset of the brachial plexus (p. 73), and inclines downwards beneath the omo-hyoid muscle to the notch in the upper border of the scapula, through which it passes- into the supraspinous fossa (p. 269). The TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY, also a branch of the sub- clavian (p. 70), has the same direction as the suprascapular,towards the upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subcla\dan artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and di-sades into two branches- —superficial cervical and posterior scapular. a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes offsets to the levator anguli scapulte and the cervical glands. b. The posterior scapular branch crosses under the levator anguli scapulae, and descends along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. If these muscles are divided, the artery wUl be seen to fm-nish branches to them, and to give small anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very fre- quently from the third part of the subclavian trunk. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins have the same course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with, the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender offset of the brachial plexus (p. 73) courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhomboidei on the under surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. * Third Layer of Muscles. In this stratum are included the serratus 2:)0sticus superior and inferior, and the splenius muscles. * Dissection. By reflecting the rhomboid muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing loose areolar tissue, the thin upper serratus muscle beneath them will be laid bare. The inferior serratus has been previously exposed by the reflection of the latissimus.