DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 832 Thorax lessened, how. diajDhragm is not equal throughout, and some parts of the cavity Avill be increased more than others. For instance, the centi-al ten- dinous piece, which is joined to the heart-case, moves hut slightly ; but the lateral, bulging parts descend freely, and increase great! \- the capacity of each half of the chest below Ijy their separatioii from the thoracic parietes. The thoracic cavity may be dimhiished by the diaphragm Ijeing pushed upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE PLEURiE. Sac of the pleura: form ; outer SU1-- face ; inner sur- face ; disposition. Difference in sac of right, and of left side. The con- tinuity is here traced from wall of chest to lung: m upper part diffe- rent. Along middle the sacs form a septum. The pleurae are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, which are reflected around the limgs in the cavity of the thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the ca^dty; they ap- proach each other along the middle of the chest, forming a thoracic partition or mediastinum. Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the first rib (fig. 101); and its base is in contact with the dia- phragm. The outer surface is rough, and is cuimected to the limg and the wall of the thorax by areolar tissue ; but the inner surface is smooth and free. Surroimding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part—costal pleura, and of a visceral part—pulmonary plexrra. There are some difi'erences in the shape and extent of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than on the left; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The continuity of the bag of the pleura may be traced horizontally from a given point, over the lung and the wall, back to the .same spot in the follovraig manner:—Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it lines the wall of the chest as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is then reflected over the viscus, covering its surface, and extending into the fissures between the lobes. From the front of the root the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericar- dium to the sternum. Below the root the pleura forms a thin fold, the ligamenttim latum pulmonis, which intervenes between the inner surface of the lung and the side of the ijericardium. If the serous sac be traced above the root of the lung, it describ&s two distinct circles, one lining the chest-wall, and the other surround- ing the lung. The mediastinum. The median thoracic partition, ormediastinum, is formed by the inner portion of the parietal pleura on each side, and the structures interposed between the two membranes. It extends the whole depth of the thorax, and reaches from the spine to the sternum, thus separating the right and left pleural cavities. In the centre the two layers of serous membrane are widely separated by tlie heart; but in front and behind they come nearer