PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. 679 the sheath of the peroneus longus, it blends in front witli the inferior ligament of the jnetatarso-phalangeal articulation, and is inserted insertion; into the base of the first phalanx of the toe ; some of the fibres are often inserted into the fore part of the metatarsal bone. Action. Firstly, it bends the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and next use it draws down and adducts the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection (fig. 209). In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect^the^ may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor hallucis are to be cut a,"i^„erves^ tliTough behind, and thrown towards the toes; but the nerve supplying the latter is to be preserved. Beneath the adductor lie the j)lantar arch and the external plantar nerve with their branches ; and through the first interosseous sj)ace the dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves, Avith their branches, require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei ; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTAR ARCH (fig. 209, d) is the portion of the external Arch of the plantar artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone artery'^ of the little toe to the back of the first interosseous space : inter- extent; nally the arch is com23leted by a communicating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot (e; p. 680), It is placed across the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, in contact Avith the interossei, but relations under the flexor tendons and the adductor hallucis. cl'es' Vente comites lie on the sides of the artery, and the deep part of veins and the external plantar nerve accompanies it. n&ive, From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches are branches: — supplied, and from the opposite side small nutritive branches arise. Three small arteries, the posterior perforating, leave the deep Posterior aspect of the AJ-essel : they pass to the dorsum of the foot through P'^'^o^'^ti^K- the three outer metatarsal spaces, and join the dorsal interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery (p. 689). The digital branches (c) are four in number, and supply both Digital sides of the three outer toes and haK the next. One to the outer three^toes*" side of the little toe is single; the others lie over the interossei and a half; in the outer three metatarsal spaces, but beneath the transversus pedis (fig. 208), and bifurcate in front to supply the contiguous sides of two toes. They give fine offsets to the interossei, to some muscular lumbricales, and the transversus pedis ; and at the j)oint of division ^^'^ they send small communicating branches—anterior perforating, to anterior join the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot (p. 689). offsets^f"° The first digital rtms on the outer side of the little toe, supplying first the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the integuments of the outer border of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and second, furnishes a branch to the outer Imnbrical muscle. The third is distributed to the contiguous sides of the fourth and third, third toes, and emits a brancli to the third lumbricalis. Tlie fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- fourth osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits ; it may assist in supplying the third lumbricalis.