207 INSULA AND FRONTAL LOBE. Opercnlun: of the insula. iiiar£?ins of the Sylvian fissure be drawn asunder, it will be seen to have a triangular form, with the apex directed downwards towards the anterior perforated space, and to be bounded by three furrows, 1,^^'™^,™''^'^ the 9Hlci of Reil (ar, er, and jpr), the hinder of which is continuous sulci of Beil. with the posterior bi'anch of the tis-sure of Sylvius. Fig. 61.* The central lobe is placed opposite the corpxis stria- tum in the interior of the hemisphere. To the portions of the frontal and parietal lobes which are placed between the ascending and posterior branches of the fissure of Sylvius (fig. 60, between s" and s"), and cover the upper part of the central lobe, the name operaolum of the insula is given (fig. 61). Sulci A^'D convoltt- TIONS OF THE FRONTAL LOBE. On the outer surface of the frontal lobe there are four convolutions, separated by three sulci. The iJr(Bcentral sulcus (fig. 60, pr c) is placed in front of, and nearly parallel to, the lower haK of the furrow of Eolando. From it the inferior frontal sulcus (if) runs forwards and downwards, towards the orbital surface of the lobe. Above this, the superior frontal sulcus (sf), which is often inter- rupted once or twice by cross gyri, takes a similar course. The ascending frontal convolution (af) is simple, and forms the Frontal con hindmost part of the frontal lobe, extending from the upper margin ^i^\'^svei-se"- of the hemisphere to the Sylvian fissure, along the front of the fur- row of Rolando. From its fore part the three longitudinal convolu- tions of this lobe take their origin. The superior frontal convolution (sf) is longer and broader than the superior, others, and is commonly much subdivided into secondary gyri. It lies between the margin of the hemisphere and the upper frontal sulcus. Frontal sulci are ow transverse, and two longi- tiTclinal. * Orbital lobule and central lobe. orb. Orbital sulcus, ol. Olfactory salens. ar. Anterior, er. External, and pr. Posterior sulci of Reil, tlie last opened by the removal of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. lo. Internal, AO. Anterior, and vo. Posterior orbital convolutions, o. Central lobe or island of Rcii. iv, ak, and ai>. Lower parts of the inferior frontal, ascending frontal, and ascnding parietal gyri, constituting the oi^erculum. Ai'S. An- terior perforated space.