DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 320 is defleiont above; oblique lisanient. The lower end after. Kind of motion of radius: pronation, supination ; axis of motion; use of ligaments: in fracture motion ceases. Dissection. Bones forni' ing wist- joint united by and back of the forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely doA\'nwards and inwards, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. Superiorly the membrane is wantuig for a consideralde space, and through the interval the posterior i]iter- osseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels ; and the largest of these C) is about two inches from the lower end, through which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the wist. The membrane gives attachment to the deep muscles. The oblique ligament (fig. 94,^) is a slender band above the inter- osseous membrane, the fibi'es of which have a direction opposite to those of the inembrane. By one end it is fixed to the lower end of the coronoid j^rocess, and by the other to the radius below the tuberosity. The ligament divides into two the space above the in- terosseous membrane. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articulation cannot be well seen till after the examination, of the wxist-joiiit (p. 322). Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and back- wards around the ulna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the hand backwards, is called pronation ; and the backward movement, by which the palm of the hand is turned to the front, is named supination. In pronation, the upper end of the bone rotates Avithin the band of the orbicular ligament "wdthout shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing nearly half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the ulna. In supination, the lower end of the radius turns backwards over the ulna ; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius being external; and the upper end rotates from within out in its circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round a line, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the styloid process of the ulna. The upper end of the bone is kept in jolace by the orbicular Hgar ment; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage; and the shafts are united by the interosseous ligament, which is tightened in supi- nation, and relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease ; in the one case because the radius cannot be moved unless it is entire ; and in the other because the broken ulna cannot sujiport the revolving radius. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wrist-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from both the front and back ; and the fibrous structures and the small vessels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist-Joint (fig. 96). The lower end of the radius, and the first TOW of the carpal bones, except the pisiform, enter into the wrist-joint. Four ligaments connect the bones, viz., anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from this articula- tion by means of a piece of fibro-cartilage.