DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. 308 and nso, radius free, and fixed. Extensor carpi radialis longior: origin; insertion; and use. Extensor carpi radialis brevior: origin; insertion; parts around it; and use. Common extensor of lingers ; border tonclies the biceps and the pronator teres ; and tlie posterior is in contact with both radial extensors of the wrist. Near its insertion tlie supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Beneath the muscle are the brachialis anticus and the musculo-spiral nerve, the extensors of the wrist, the radial vessels and nerve, and the radius. Action. The chief use of the supinator longus is to bend the elbow-joint; but if the radius is either forcibly pronated or supinated, the muscle can put the hand into a state intermediate between pro- nation and supination. If the radius is fixed, as in climbing, the muscle will bring up the humerus, bending the elbow. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR (b) arises from the lower third of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, from the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum, and from the septum between it and the next muscle. It lies on the short radial extensor, being partly covered by the supinator longus ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long extensor first straightens the wrist, and then bends the elbow-joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus like the long supinator. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR (c) is attached to the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles, viz., common extensor of the fingers, extensor of the little finger, and ulnar extensor of the wrist; it takes origin also from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint. The tendon of the muscle is closely applied to the preceding, and after passing with, it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two jn'eceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to it, viz., supinator brevis, and pronator teres. Along the ulnar side is the common extensor of the fingers; and the extensors of the thumb issue between the two. Both radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa beneath the tendon, close to the insertion. Action. This muscle acts with its fellow in extending the wrist. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DiGiTORUM (d) is single at its origin, but is divided below into four tendons. It arises from the common tendon, from the fascia, and from aponeurotic septa between it and Extensor minimi digiti. f. Extensor carpi ulnaris. o. Anconexis. h. Ex- tensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, i. Extensor iirimi internodii. J. Extensor secuudi internodii pollicis. k. Posterior annular ligament. L. Iknds uniting the tendons of tlie common extensor on tlie back of the hand. k. Insertion of the common extensor into t' e second and third plialanges. Arteries: ft. Posterior interosseous 1. Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arcb. h. Dorsal interosseous branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and forefinger.