623 ANTERIOE CRURAL NERVE. euous nerve, the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 618). The internal or long saphenous nerve (fig. 192) is the largest branch and long of the anterior criu-al. In the thigh the nerve takes the course of ' the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along the artery, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that sjDot the nerve passes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous (fig. 188,'*). It supplies two oftsets while it is beneath the fascia in the thigh. A communicating branch arises about the middle of the thigh, which has a and crosses inwards beneath the sartorius to join in the plexus of eating""^" the internal cutaneous and obturator nerves, or with the internal cutaneous nearer the knee : this branch is often absent. The patellar branch springs from the nerve near the knee-ioint, and a pa- . i: o _ J 7 tellar ofifset and perforating the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the integument over the knee (p. 604). A branch of nerve to the tensor vagince femoris is derived from Nerve of the superior gluteal (p. 637) ; it enters the deep surface of the vaginse. muscle, and may be followed nearly to the lower end. Directions. After the examination of the muscles of the front of Tif^^ • 1 1 • adduc- the thigh, with their vessels and nerves, the student is to learn the tors, adductor muscles, and the vessels and nerves which belong to them. PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OP THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the three adductors,—longus. The adduc- brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and pectineus. These have *°r™'iscles, the following position with respect to one another :—Internal to all, and their and the longest, is the gracilis. Superficial to the others are the 1'"^'*^'°"- pectineus and the adductor longus ; and beneath the last two are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with the muscles, and supplying them, are the pro- Vessels funda artery (of the femoral) with the accompanying vein, and the '^'^'^ obturator nerve. Dissection. For the preparation of the muscles, the investing Dissection fascia and tissue are to be taken away; and the two superficial of adductor adductors are to be separated from one another. muscles. Let the student be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve Nerves, in connection with the muscles, viz., those entering the fleshy fibres, and one issuing beneath the adductor longus, to join the plexus at the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the profunda and Remove its branches, they must be removed. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 193, c), Gracilis and is fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The trkes origin muscle a/rises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, [X?*" from the pubic border of the hip-bone close to the margin, viz., opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the