20 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. from that offset of tho upper cervical ganglion which courses along crauiar**'' the inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus nerves. unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in tlie orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. Distribu- After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are continued on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of that vessel: one offset enters the eyeball with the central artery of the retina. iTciai^petni PETROSAL NERVES. Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large sal nerves, superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 35, ^) entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the facial nerve. External to this is sometimes seen the small superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 35, but this is frequently concealed in the substance of the temporal bone. The source, and the destination of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to notice their position, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions Directions. Now that the study of the base of the skull has been ing parts'!^ completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of skin should be stitched together over all. Sectiox in. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Directions. Position of liead. Dissection. How to raise tlie skin from muscle of eyelids, from the face, Directions. The muscles and vessels are to be dissected together on the left side of the face, and the right side is to be kept for the nerves. Position. The head is to be lowered from the position in which it was placed for the examination of the base of the skull, and turned so that the side of the face to be dissected is ujawards : fix it in this position with hooks. Dissection. As a preparatory step, tbe muscular fibres of the apertures may be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity of tow or cotton wool between the eyelids and the eyeball, and between the lips and the teeth. First lay bare the sphincter muscle of the eyelids by making a skin-deej) incision over the margin of the orbit, and raising the skin of the lids towards the aperture of the eye. Much care must be taken in detaching the skin from the thin and pale fibres of the orbicular muscle in the lids, else they will be cut away in conse- quence of the little areolar tissue between the two. Next the integument is to be removed from the side of the face by one incision in front of the ear from above the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw, and another along the base of the jaw to the chin : a cut should also be made along the free margin of each lip from the centre to the angle of the mouth, and another roimd