168 DISSECTION OP THE LARYNX. epiglottis and tlie aryteno-epiglottidean fold witli the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle. The whole of the muscular fibres passing from the aiytenoid and thyroid cartilages to the epiglottiij are sometimes described together as the depressor of the epiglottis. Use. Action. This muscle draws downwards the epiglottis and aiyteno- epiglottidean fold, and assists in closing the upper aperture of the larynx. Interior of CaVITY OF THE LARYNX AND PARTS INSIDE. On looking into the }S:P'^^-.. . cavity of the larynx from above, the tube will be seen to become The CRvity is . , ' con.stricteci narrower irom above downwards, owing to the projection inwards of in middle, prominent folds on each side termed the vocal cords. The lower or true vocal cords are placed on a level with the bases of the arj'- tenoid cartilages, and the sUt^like interval between them is called the glottis. Below this the cavity enlarges again to the lower aperture of the larynx, where it is continued into the trachea. Upper open- Upper aperture of the larynx (fig. 30, n). This is the orifice by which the larynx communicates with the pharynx. It is tri- form and angular in shape, with the base, which is formed by the epiglottis, boundaries, turned forwards and upwards. The sides, which are sloped fi'om before downwards and backwards, are formed by the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds of the mucous membrane ; and at the apex is the arytenoid muscle, with the upper ends of the arytenoid cartilages, covered by the mucous membrane. This apercure is closed by the ej)iglottis during deglutition. Lower open- The lower aperture of the larynx, bounded by the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, is nearly circrdar in form, and of the same size as the interior of the cartilage. Dissection. Dissection. To see the parts withia the larynx, the tube is to l^e divided by a median incision along the back ; but in cutting through the arytenoid muscle, let the knife be carried a little to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. Parts inside On the side wall of the larynx (fig. 42) there will now be seen the projecting bands of the vocal cords sej)arated by a depression called the ventricle of the larynx. If a probe be j)assed into this hollow, it will enter a small pouch—sacculus laryngis, by an aperture at the upper and fore part, under cover of the suj)erior vocal cord. Glottis, The glottis or rima glottidis is the narrowest j)art of the laryngeal cavity, and is placed on a level with the bases of the arytenoid position, cartilages. If the cut surfaces of the back of the larynx be placed form, together, it will be seen to have the form of an elongated triangle, boundaries, with the base turned backwards. It is bovmded on the sides by the true vocal cords (fig. 42, b) in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and by the arytenoid cartilages (e) in the posterior third. In front, the right and left vocal cords meet at their attaclunent to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind, the base is formed by the arytenoid muscle. The portion of the slit between the vocal cords, being Subdivision, g^jo^e concerned in the production of the voice, is distinguished as the vocal glottis, while the part between the arytenoid cartilages is +ermed the respiratory glottis.