402 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. First three have inner and outer branches: common branching into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal nerves ; but the hist two are undivided. The first three nerves ai-e covered l)y the multifidus spinae, and divide regularly. The inner xneces Q) are distributed to the multifidus ; and the last of this set is very fine. The outer 'pieces (^) are larger, and have communicating ofTsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum ; the branch of the first nei-ve is also connected witli Fig. 123.* latter give cutaneous ofTscts. Last two are undivided. Coccygeal nerve. Small sacral arteries. Dissection of costal muscles. the corresponding part of the la-si lumbar ; and the branch of the third joins in a similar way the sacral nerve next below. After this looping they pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro- sciatic ligament, where they join a second time, and become cuta- neous. (Dissection of the BUTTOCK.) * Last tvjo nerves (4 s and 5 s). These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller that the preceding, and want the I'egular liranching of the others : they are connected with each other and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the sacram. A few filaments are distributed to the back of the sacnim and the coccyx. Coccygeal nerve (1 c). Its posterior jjrimary branch issues through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appears by the side of the coccyx It is joined by a loop from the last sacral nerve, and ends on the posterior surface of the coccyx. * Sacral arteries. Small branches of the lateral sacral arteries leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves; they supply the multifidus spinse, and anastomose on the back of the sacrum with offsets from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. * Dissection. The jsosterior part of the wall of the thorax may be examined before the body is again turned. By removing, opposite * Dissection of the sacral nerves (Lond. Med. Gazette, 1843). Mutclcs : A. Multifidus spinae, and b. Erector spinas: botli cut. c. Gluteus maximus detached from its origin, and thrown down. «. Great sacro-sciatic ligament Nerves: 51. Last lumbar. 1 s to s. The five sacral nerves issuing from the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve escaping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. Internal offsets of the last lumbar and first three .sacral (these are represented too large). 2. External offsets of the same nerves. 3. Anterior, and 4. Posterior primary branch of the coccygeal nerve. 5. The perforating cutaneous nerve derived from the sacial plexus.