428 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. consists of two strata; apertures in it for uretlira, for arteries •and nerves of penis; pai-ts between layers. Dissection Constrictor urethra;: attach- ments ; disposition of fibres. Transverse ligament. The ligament is composed of two layers of membrane (superior and inferior) which are united along the base. The superior layer is derived from the recto-vesical fascLa. The infeiior is a 8e])arate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres ; but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and tlie muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the inferior layer of the ligament, about one inch from the symphysis pubis, is the canal of tlie urethra ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with tlie tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Nearer the symphysis, and close to the bone on each side, the terminal part of the pudic artery and thc dorsal nerve of the ])eius {b and 3) perforate the ligament by separate ajiertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained the membran- ous part of the urethra, tin- Fig. 13 r. * The CONSTRICTOR URETHRyE (fig. versely across the subpubic arch, of the lU'ethra in the same way surrounds the end of the rectum, tendinous bundles on each side to the ischium, and other fibres scaring from constrictor urethra? muscle, Cowper's glands, the ])udic vessels \nth their branches to the bulb, and the dorsal nerves of tlie penis. Dissection. The muscle be- tween the layers of the liga- ment will be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dissection, and the removal of some veins, the fl.eshy fibres of the constrictor urethrse ydU be exposed. 134, I ; 135, b) extends trans- enclosing the membranous pait as the sphincter ani externus The muscle is attached by rami of the pubis luid the two layers of the triangular ligament. Between these attachments the fleshy fibres are directed transversely and obliquely across the middle line, one set passing in front of, and another behind the uretlira, where they are interruiited in some cases by a small median tendon. At the anterior border of the muscle there is a .short fibrous band stretching across Ijetween the infeiior rami of the pubic bones, and bounding with the subiDubic ligament at the lower margin of the symphysis an oval opening, through which the dorsal vein of the penis enters * The .sympliy-sis pubis seen from above, with part of the urinary bladder and the prostate, and with tlic tube of the urethra surrounded by tlie con- strictor muscle (Santorini). a. P.ladder cut open : the swelling of the prostate surrounds it in front, b. Constrictor urethraa :—c. Part of the muscle before, nnd d, part behind the urethra.