216 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. Dissection. Fifth ventricle. Dissection. Fornix: position and form. Upper sur- face and borders. Posterior and anterior part. Under surface is inarlved by lines. Fornix formed of two bands. Foramen of Monro. Dissection. The fifth ventricle will ])e ex2)o.sed by cuttiii;,' through the piece of the corpus callosuni which reiiiain.s in tlie middle line, and detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum. The fifth ventricle (vent, of the septum) is a nari'ow slit in the fore part of the septum lucidum, where this is deeper. Posteriorly and above, the laminas of the septum are united to a variable extent. Like the septum, it is larger in front than behind. ThLs cavity has not any epithelial lining. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay bare this body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detache<l with care from it, and thrown backwards ; and the septum lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. The fornix (fig. 63, c) is a thin wliite layer beneath the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or hody is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards ; and it ls con- tinuous with the rest of the brain by processes named cram in front and behind. The upper surface of the body has the septum Incidum attached to it along the middle line in front; and behind, its median j)art is united to the corjDus callosum. Each border is free in the corre- sponding lateral ventricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus, the velum interpositum being between the two ; and along it lies the choroid plexus. At its base it joins the corpus callosum in. the middle, while on each side it sends off a small riband-like band— the posterior crus or taenia hifpocampi (fig. 64, c), along the concave margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior end it is arched over the foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the ojitic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which will be afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 224). If the fornix be cu.t across near its front, the foramen of Monro will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen (fig. 64). When the posterior part is raised, it will be found to be supported on a process of the j)ia mater, named velum interpo.situui. And near its base, on the under asjoect, is a triangular surface, marked by transverse lines, which are produced by the fibres of the corjDUS callosum appearing in the interval between the two diverging longitudinal bands of the fornix : the part which is so defined has been called the hjra (fig. 64, a). The fornix may be described as consisting of two bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in the optic thalamus and passing through the corpus albicans, arches over the foramen of Monro, and after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as the taenia hippocampi to the hook of the luicinate convolution. The foramen of Monro is a short slit between the fore part of the fornix and the optic thalamus. Through it the lateral ventricle communicates with the third ventricle, and indirectly witli the one