INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. 669 iirtery; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side above the origin of the peroneal offset, but thence to the t(!rmination, on the outer side. Its branches are muscular and brandies <'iitaneous. Muscular brandies are furnished to the two long flexors, the tibi- to muscles, 4ilis posticus, ixnd the soleus. There is an offset for eacli of the muscles ; and they may arise either separately along the trunk, or together from the upper end of the nerve. The branch to the tibialis is the largest; and that to the flexor hallucis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of thi sole of the foot (calcmeo-^lantSLV ; fig. 205,'') Q^^gg"**'"'^ begins above the ankle, and piercing the internal annular ligament anrt sole, ixs two or more pieces, ends in the integuments of the inner and under parts of the heel: this nerve will be followed to its termina- tion in the dissection of the foot (fig. 206). The IJJTERNAL ANNUL.A.R LIGAMENT stretches between the heel and internal the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep layer of liframent: muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a narrow part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os ■calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the attach- leg; and the opposite gives attachment to the abductor hallucis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons. The innermost encloses Sheaths: the tibialis posticus, lodged in a groove on the back of the malleolus, their Immediately outside this is another space for the flexor digitorum. And about three-quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the flexor hallucis, resting in a groove in the astragalus. Each slieath is lined by a synovia] membrane. Between the tendons of the two fiexors of the digits are placed the tibial vessels and nerve. Section V. SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. The foot is to be placed over a block of moderate thick- Position of ness with the sole towards the dissector ; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by separating and fastening apart the toes. Dissection. The skin is to be raised in two flaps, inner and outer. Raise the by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the front; and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous and disseet nerve of the sole (fig. 206); and he may trace out, at a little dis- cutaneous *^ ' nerves.