DORSAL SCAPULAR VESSELS. 269 the scapula can be traced by detaching from behind forwards the scapular supraspiaatus and infraspinatus muscles, so as to leave a thin layer of vessels, the fleshy fibres Avith the ramifying blood-vessels on the siu'face of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinous fossa ; and entering the infraspinous fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between these vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY (o) is derived from the thyroid axis Supra- of the subclavian trunk (p. 70). After a short course in the neck Irteiy^'" it crosses over the suprascapular ligament, and passing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends in the infraspinous fossa, where it gives ^^jj^gp^^ offsets to the infraspinatus muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses tus, and with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery and the posterior scapular of the subclavian. Before entering the supraspinous fossa, it gives a small branch to gives sui)- the ventral surface of the scapula ; and beneath the supraspinatus supraspi-^^^ it furnishes offsets to that muscle, the bone, and the shoulder-joint, i^ous offsets. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external Vein, jugiilar vein. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE (^) is a branch of the brachial plexus Suprascapu- (p. 73). When it reaches the npper border of the scapula, it enters the supraspinous fossa beneath the suprascapular ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus ; and it is con- branches, tinned beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which muscular it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder-joint, and articu- and other offsets to the scapula. The POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY runs aloug the base of the Posterior scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing offsets to them artoy.^^ and to the surfaces of the bone. It is more fully noticed with the dissection of the back (p. 388). The DORSAL SCAPULAR ARTERY (6) is a branch of the subscapular Dorsal sca- (p. 254), and after giving off its infrascapular offset, turns round ^ the axillary border of the bone opposite the posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinous fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspi- natus, and anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. It sends a considerable branch downwards between the teres muscles, towards the lower angle of the bone.