DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 190 restiform body. pair, Willis) has a surface attachment outside the foregoing to the restiform body, and to the floor of the fourth ventricle. auditory nuclei. Deep origin Deep origin. At its attachment to the medulla oblongata the auditory fiwn'i^iiier'^'* nerve consists of two roots, upper and lower. The fibres of the v/pper root and outer i'"" backwards through the lowest part of the pons to the outer auditory nuclexis beneath the lateral angle of the fourtii venti-icle, and some fibres are said to pass outwards to the cerebellum. The lower root is partly connected Avith the inner auditory nucleus, beneath the auditory tubercle in the floor of tlie fourth ventricle, by means of fibres passing backwards on the inner side of the restiform body ; and another part is continued superficially round the outer side of the restiform body to the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it gives rise to the auditory striae, but the central origin of these fibres is un- known. Ninth nerve belowfacial: The NINTH or glosso-phartngeal nerve (first trunk of the eighth pair, Willis) leaves the medulla oblongata by five or six fila- ments close below the facial nerve, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. nucleus in Beep origin. Directed backwards through the medulla oblongata, the floor of fibres loin a nucleus beneath the inferior fovea in the floor of the fourth fourth - ventricle. ventricle. Tenth nerve The TENTH, VAGUS or PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE (second trunk of belownmth: ^-j^^ eighth pair, Willis,^) issues by a nxunber of filaments (twelve to fifteen) from the medulla oblongata in a line with, and below the glosso-pharyngeal. nucleus Deep origin. Taking a similar course in the medulla oblongata to the roots beneath of the ninth nerve, the fibres of the vagna reach their nucleus in the calamus fourth scriptorius of the fourth ventricle, ventricle. Eleventh nerve in two Ijieces; accessory from medulla oblongata, spinal from cord. The ELEVENTH or SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (third trunk of the eighth pair, Willis) consists of two parts—accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory part is of small size, and is formed by the imion of slender filaments continuing the line of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves along the meditUa oblongata, as low as the first cervical nerve. After communicating with the spinal part in the jugular foramen, it throws itself into the vagus nerve outside the skuU (p. 111). The S2nnal part is firm and round, like the tliixd or the sixth nerve, but only a small piece of it can now be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal coixi as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nei-ve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of wliich it may be coimected ; and it enters the skull by the foramen magnum. Both from jj^gp origin. The fibres of both accessory and sjiiiial ]iarts liave been one nucleus, ^^.^^gj inwards to an elongated column of cells reaching from the lower third of the olivary body to the level of the fifth cervical nerve, and situate in the spinal part of its extent in the outer part of the anterior horn of the grey