553 LIGAMENTS OF THE UTERUS. unterior nncl a posterior space : in the former the bladder is placed; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, the small intestine, and the sigmoid flexure when it reaches the pelvis. Each ligament shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, which is " -i.i subdivided corresponding with the bodies contained between its two layers, into three Thus, there is a posterior piece belonging to the ovary and its liga- P'**'*^- ment (l) ; an anterior, near the upper edge, which contains the round ligament (n) ; and a middle piece, the liighest of all, enclosing the Fallopian tube (m). Anterior and posterior ligaments of the utenis. As the peritoneum Anterior^ is reflected from the rectum to the uterus, and from the u.terus to rlol Hga-*^ the bladder, it forms two anterior and two posterior folds or liga- mpnts of ' •••nil uterus, ments. The anterior or vesico-uter%ne pair is smaller than the pos- terior or recto-xderine. The recto-uterine poucji, also called recto-vaginal, corresponds with ^^^^^^ the recto-vesical in the male. On each side it is bounded by the pouch, obliterated hypogastric artery ; and below, it reaches beyond the uterus, so as to touch the back of the vagina. The vesico-uterine vouch is between the uterus and bladder, and is sico- •T . ' uterine much smaller than the foregoing. pouch. The false ligaments of the bladder are five in number, the same as Five liga- in the male, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and a superior : they Sadder.^ are all parts of one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and front of the j)elvis. The posterior ligaments, containing the vessels of the bladder, are identical with the vesico- uterine folds, and are much smaller than in the male. The RECTUM (fig. 171, k) is not so curved in the female as in the Relations of tiic rec- male, and is generally larger. Descending along the middle of the turn viz. sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three parts :— The iipper portion ends over the third piece of the sacrum, and is °f enveloped by the peritoneum : its relations are similar to those of the rectum in the male (p. 547). The middle portion reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has the econd, vagina in front, and in contact with it. The peritoneum extends on the front for a short distance. The Mcer piece curves to the anus away from the vagina so as to ^"^^ third leave between the two a space which corresponds, on the surface nf the body, with the perineum between the anus and the vulva. Tlie levatores ani are on the sides, and unite below it, and the sphincter muscles'Surround the extremity. The UTERUS (fig. 171, o) is rather pyriform in shape, and Uterus: flattened from before backwards. Unless enlarged, it lies below the *^?'"'" ^'^'^^ brim of the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum ; and it is ' supported by the ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed up- wards ; and the lower end communicates with the vagina. The axis of the uterus may be said to correspond generally with position and that of the inlet of the pelvis ; but the position of the organ is sub- ir?f°" ject to considerable variation, and is especially influenced by the state of the bladder. The fundus is commonly directed forwards,