DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOllEARM. 310 Anconeus: oi'igin ; insertion: touclies the triceps; use. Dissection of deep layer of muscles, and interos- seous vessels and nerve. Five mus- cles in the deep layer. Extensor ossls metacarpi poUicis : origin; insertion. The muscle is at lii'st deep, hut afterwards suxierficial. Use. The ANCONEUS (g) is a small triangular muscle near the elLow, It arises from tlie outer condyle of the luunerus by a tendon distinct from, and on the ulnar side of tlie common tendon of the foregoing muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third of tlie posterior surface of the ulna. The upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus lie the supi- nator brevis muscle, and the interosseous recurrent vessels. Action. It assists the triceps in extending the elbow. Dissection (fig. 92). For the display of the deep muscles at the back of the forearm, and of the posterior interosseous vessels and nerve, three of the superficial muscles, viz., extensor communis digitorimi, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be divided above and turned aside ; and the small branches of the nerve and artery entermg these muscles may be cut. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed from the muscles, and fi'om the ramifications of the artery and nerve; and a slender part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be traced beyond the wrist. The separation of the muscles should be made carefully, since the outer two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep Later op Muscles (fig. 92). In this layer there are five muscles, viz., one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor muscles of the thumb and index finger. The highest muscle, partly suiTomiding the upper third of the radius, is the sujjinator brevis (d). Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following order ;—the extensor of the metacarpal bone (e), the extensor of the first (f), and that of the second phalanx (g). On the ulna the indicator muscle (h) is j)laced. The EXTENSOR ossis METACARPI POLLicis (e) is the largest and highest of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator brevis. It arises from the posterior surface of the radius in its middle third, below the supinator brevis, from a special narrow impression on the ulna, occupying the upper third of the outer division of the posterior siu'face, and from the intervening interosseous membrane. The tendon is dii'ected out- wards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and thi-ough the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and by a slip into the trapezium : another slip is frequently continued to the abductor polHcis. The muscle is concealed at first by the common extensor of the fingers; but it becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the forearm between the last muscle and the radial extensors of the wi-ist (fig. 91). Opposite the carpus the radial artery winds backwards beneath its tendon. Between the contiguous borders of this muscle and the supinator brevis the posterior interosseous artery (a) appears. Action, By this muscle the thumb is carried outwards and back- wards from the palm of the hand, and the hand is moved to the radial side.