VESSELS OF THE LIVER. 509 TIio liepatic artery (h) is divided into two for the chief lobes, and HopaUc its bnmches are surrounded by nerves. The portal vein {b) divides, like the artery, into two trunks for Vena portw. thi' right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe ; its left branch is the longer. FiHal condition of the umlilical vein. Before birth the umbilical UmJ'i;;*^^^^ vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the foetus; vena cava ; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied from it to both lobes of the liver ; and a large one, directed to the right lobe, is joined by the portal vein. Placental or purified blood courses throxigh the vessel at that period. Fig. 159.* Adult state. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in front of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament (fig. 159, c) or ligamentum teres. The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord {d) remaining in its place. But the lateral branches remain open, and subsequently form the divisioiLs of the portal vein. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found ])ervious for some distance. Obvidl^s structure of the liver. The substance of the liver Lobular cousi.sts of small masses called lobules, together with vessels which encased by are concerned both in the prodiiction of the secretion, and in the mitrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Hmmsi coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, Serous coat, * Under surface of the liver, as it appears after removal from the body, with the vessels and duct dissected out. a. Right, and b. Left lobe. o. Qnadrate lobe. d. Spigelian, and E. Caudate lobe. f. Longitudinal fissure. n. (xall-bladder. a. Vena cava. b. Vena portuR. c. Round ligament, d. Ligament of the ductus venosus. e. Common hepatic duct. /. Cystic duct. !/. Common bile-duct. h. Hepatic artery.