DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 316 yiirfaee of huinoi'118: of scapula. Kinds of movement. Flexion and Articular surfaces (fig. 93). Tlie convex articular head of the Immeriis is three or four times us hirge as the hollow of the scajjula, and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone is supported on a sliort neck, which is joined to the shaft at an obtuse angle. The glenoid fossa of the scapula is ovoidal in form with the larger end down, and is very shallow. Its margin is slightly more promi- nent below than above. Movements. In this joint there is the common angular motion in four directions, with the circular or circumductory ; and in addition a movement of rotation. In the swinging to and fro movement, the carrying forAvards and Fig. 93.* extension iii-e accom- lianied by rotation of scapula. Condition of head of luunerus. Checks to movements. inwards of the humerus constitutes flexion; and the moving it backwards and outwards, extension. Flexion is freer than extension; and as the joint is bent the scapula follows the humerus, undergoing a rotation upwards, so that the whole range of movement of the arm in this direction is much greater than that taking place in the scapulo-humeral articulation. In extension the scajnila is similarly rotated downwards, the lower angle approaching the spine. Durins: these movements the head of the humerus rests in the bottom of the glenoid fossa, rotating around an axis that is nearly perpendicular to the plane of that cavity ; and there is no tendency to dislocation either from the rapidity or extent of the movement Flexion of the humerus upon the scapula is checked by the twisting of the capsule, and by the meeting of the small tuberosity of the former bone with the coraco-acromial arch. Extension is limited mainly by the coraco-humeral ligament. Abduction and adduction. In abduction, the arm is moved out- * View of the interior of the shouldor-joint. a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus, b. Interval of the bicipital groove, c. Glenoid ligament around the glenoid fossa, d. Tendon of the long head of the biceps fi.xed at the top of the fossa.