MUSCLES OF SECOND LAYER. 387 the elevator of the angh; of the scapuhi, and the large and small rhomboid muscles: besides these, the posterior belly of the omo- laygr. hyoid muscle, and some vessels and nerves directed outwards towards the scapula, are now to be examined. The parts referred to have been prepared in the dissection following the reflection of the trapezius (p. 384). * The LEVATOK ANGULI SCAPULyE (tig. 119, c) ariseS by tendinous Elevator of iilips from the jjosterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the scfpula^: upper four cervical vertebra). The fibres form an elongated muscle, attach- which is inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and ments; die superior angle. At its origiu the levator lies beneath the sterno-mastoid, and at relations; its insertion beneath the trapezius, where it meets the serratus nuignus muscle; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular sj)ace of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles, viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens. Action. The muscle raises the angle and hinder part of the scapula, and use, and depresses the acromion; but in combination with the upper °" scapula, fibres of the trajDezius, which prevent the rotation down of the acromion, it shrugs the shoulder. When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can be bent to the side by on the neck, the levator. * Rhomboidei muscles. The muscular layer of the rhombcidei is Riiomhoid attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, large ",^0^°^'''* and small, Avhich are usually separated by a slight interval. * The rhomboideim minor (fig. 119, d) is a thin narrow band, Small which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and the ligamentum nuchte, and is inserted into the base of the scapula, op]iosite the smooth surface at the root of the spine. * The rhofiiboideiis major (fig. 119, k) is much larger than the Large .preceding muscle. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsal • vertebra) below the rhomboideus minor, and from the supraspinous > ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the lower insertion, angle. Sometimes the upper fibres are not fixed to the scapula directly, but end on a tendinous arch near the bone. The rhomboidei are for the most part covered by the trapezius Relations, and latissimus ; but a portion of the larger muscle is subcutaneous near the scapula. Action. From the direction of their fibres both rhomboidei Avill u.se, by draw the base of the scapida upwards and backwards, so as to^ltjl'-^^l^g^^g' depress the acromion. In combiiiation with the trapezius they carry ^' ' ° the scapula directly back ; and acting with the serratus magnus they serve to fix the scapula. The OMO-HYOiD MUSCLE consists of two fleshy bellies, anterior and Posterior postenor, which are united by an intervening tendon. Only the J'"":'^,*'^ posterior half is now seen. ^^'"''^ = The muscle arwes from the iipper border of the scapula behind origin, the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a fora- 0 0 2