.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 142 and to facial and sympa- thetic through the Vidian. Vidian a compound nerve. Seek other nerves and vessels of nose. Nasal nerve lies beneath nasal boue ; gives branch to septum and to outer wall. Branches of internal maxillary artery are palatine branch; The; Vidian nerve (^) passes backwards through the Vidian canal, and sends some small filaments through the bone to the membrane at the back of the roof of the nose (upper posterior nasal branches). At its exit from the canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish offset (large deep petrosal nerve) from the symimthetic on the outer side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum, and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 35,^). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangli- form enlargement on the facial nerve (p. 145). While in the tem- poral bone, the large superficial petrosal receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. The Vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sym- pathetic fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give his attention to the remaining nerves in the nasal cavity. Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought behind the na.sal bone (fig. 34) by gently detaching the lining membrane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, vrill be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa have been laid bare in the dissection of Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The NASAL NERVE (of the ophthalmic) (fig. 34,") has been already seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fossa by an aperture at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a branch to the membrane of the septum, and then descends in a groove on the back of the nasal bone. At the lower margin of the latter it escapes between the bone and the upper lateral cartUage to the surface of the nose (p. 44). Branches. The branch to the septum (fig. 33) divides into fila- ments that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. One or tioo filaments are likemse fuiTiished by the nerve to the mucous membrane on the outer wall of the nasal fossa; these extend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, which have not been examined, are the superior palatine, nasal, pterygo- palatine, and Vidian. The s^iperior or descending palatine is the largest branch, and accompanies the large palatine nerve thrcJugh the canal, and along the roof of the mouth ; it anastomoses behind the incisor teeth with its fellow, and with the naso-palatine branch through the incisor foramen. This artery siipplies ofisets to the soft palate and tonsil through the other palatine canals, and some twgs are fm-nished to the lining membrane of the no^e. In the roof of the mouth