CILIARY MUSCLE AND IRIS. 721 mprachoroidea, similar to the membrana fusca of the sclerotic, to which it is connected ; next to this is a layer containing the larger ramifications of the arteries and veins ; and in the deepest part the vessels form a very fine and close capillary network (tunica Baysch- iana). In the ciliary processes the meshes of the capillary net- work are larger, and the interstitial pigment disappears towards the free ends of the larger processes. Ciliary muscle (fig. 224, d, e). In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white ring of the ciliary muscle may be seen covering the front of the choroid coat. The n^uscle forms a circular band, of a greyish white colour, and position; about one-tenth of an inch wide. supra- choroid layer, and vascular networks; ciliary processes. Ciliary muscle; Fig. 225, on the surface of the choroid coat, close to the outer margin of the iris. It consists of un- striated fibres, which are in two sets, radiating and circular :— The radiating fibres (fig. 226, e) arise in front from the sclerotic coat close to the junction with the cornea (beneath r), and are directed backwards, spreading out, to be inserted into the choroid coat opposite to, and a little behind, the ciliary pro- cesses. Some of the deeper fibres become transverse, and pass gradually into the following set. The circular fibres are beneath the radiating, and form a narrow bundle (fig. 226, m) surrounding the edge of the iris, opposite the inner part of the ciliary processes. Action. The ciliary muscle draws forwards the fore part of the choroid coat and the ciliary processes, and relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens, thereby allowing the lens to become more con- vex, as required for vision at near distances. The ciliary muscle is therefore the muscle of accommodation. The IRIS (fig. 224, c) is a vascular and muscular structure, about half an inch in diameter, the vessels of which are continuous with those of the choroid coat. Its position and relations may be observed in the diS"erent dissections that have been prepared. Placed within the ring of the ciliary muscle, it is suspended in front of the lens (fig. 223, /), and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured in diff'erent persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference, it is connected with the choroid coat, and by the * Posterior vie'w of the fore part of the choroid coat with its ciliary pro- cesses, and the back of the iris. a. Anterior piece of the choroid coat. b. Ciliary processes, c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil, e. Bundles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil, 3 A consists of radiating and circular fibres : use. Iris is vas- cular and muscular: situation; form ; attachment