DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 168 Constitu- ents of ti'iichen. Cartilages. Form. Irregu- larities. . Fibrous layer. Dissection. Muscular layer at back. Submucous elastic tissue. Mucous membrane, epithelium, and glands. Structure of the Trachea. The Avindpii)e consists of a series of pieces of cartilage (tig. 40), which are deficient behind, and con- nected together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the carti- lages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane and muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by mucous meml)rane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages. The j^ieces of cartilage vary in number from sixteen to twenty. Each forms about three-fourths of a ring, extending roirnd the front and sides of the airtube. Their arrangement i.s not quite regular throughout, for some of them are often bifurcated at one end, or sometimes two adjacent pieces are jjartly fused together. The highest is commonly broader than the others, and may be joined to the cricoid cartilage. The lowest piece is triradiate, or V-shaj)ed, a median process being sent downwards and backwards in the angle between the two bronchi. The fibrous membrane ensheaths the cartilages and, being con- tinued across the intervening spaces, binds them together. It also extends across the posterior part of the trachea. Dissection. On removing for about two inches the fibrous mem- brane and the mucous glands from the interval between the carti- lages at the baok of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the muscular iibres have been examined the membranous part of the tube may be divided, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres. Between the ends of the cartilages is a continuous layer of transverse bundles of unstriated muscle, wliich is attached to the truncated ends and the adjacent part of the inner surface of the cartilaginous hoops. By the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longitudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse; they are arranged m scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a comp>lete lining to the trachea beneath the mucous membrane ; and at the posterior j^art, where the carti- lages are wanting, it is gathered into strong longitudinal bundles. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane co- vering it. The niucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and resembles that of the larynx in being furnished with a columnar ciliated epi- theliimi. Connected with this membrane are numerous branched mucous glands of variable size. The largest are found at the back of the trachea, in the membranous part of the wall, where some are placed ou.tside the fibrous layer, and others between that membrane and the muscular fibres, brane. " Other small glands are found at the front and sides of the tracliea, being situate on and in tlie fibrous tissue comiecting the cartila- ginous rings. Smaller glands lie beneath the mucous mem- Vessels and The arteries of the tracheti are derived from the inferior thyroid