704 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. ligament extend, wliich will be definerl l)y removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 219), It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he pi'oceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Astragalus ARTICULATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS AND OS CALCI8. These boneS cnicis"by ''^"^^ ^^^P*^ together by a strong interosseous Uga ment; there are also thin bands at the outer side and behind. posterior, The posterior ligament (fig. 219, a) consists of a few fibres between the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor Fig. 219.* external, and interos- seous liga- ments. Articular surfaces ; synovial cavities. Movement between as- tragalus and OS c.alcis : axis of Jnotion. hallucis ; and the external ligament (b) is connected to the sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 219, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 707) the articular surfaces of the bones will be seen, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial cavities. Movements. It is between the astragalus and os calcis that the important movements of the foot known as inversion and eversion chiefly take place. The motion is one of rotation about an oblique axis, which is directed from the upper and inner part of the head of the astragalus, backwards, downwards, and outwards to the lower and outer j^art of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Sujd- posing the astragalus fixed between the malleoli, and the rest of the * View of the dorsal ligaments of the tarsus, a. Posterior, b, external, and c, interosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. d. Astragalo- navicular. e. External caloaneo-navicular. /. Internal, and (/, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments, h. Dorsal naviculo-cuboid band, i, k, I. Dorsal external, middle, and internal naviculo-cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal trans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones.