581 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. and the entnmce to the vagina, above (deeper than) the nympha, resting against the lower surface of the triangular ligament, and being covered by the sphincter vaginre muscle (a). Each is about an inch and a half long, and is larger at its hinder end, where it measures about half an inch in depth. By their narrow anterior ends the two bulbs are united in front of the urethra; and they are joined by a venous plexus to the smaU glans of the Fig- 182.* clitoris. These bodies answer to the divided bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethree in the male. situation ; relations ; size; connected to clitoris; represent bulb of male GENERATIVE ORGANS. The generative or- gans, or internal organs of generation, are the uterus and vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection. The vis- cera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain u.nited. The bladder is to clean be set aside for subsequent use. The surface of the vagina and '^^^u^a- the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left imtouched for the present. Separate vagina and uterus; THE VAGINA The tube of the vagina (fig. 171, i) is connected with the uterus Vagina: at one end, and with the vulva at the other. It has a slightly curved course between the two points mentioned : and the anterior curved and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the former measures about two inches, and the latter three. In the body the vagina is flattened from before back, so that the form opposite surfaces are in contact; and the upper part of the posterior wall is applied to the lower end of the uterus. Its size varies at and size, different spots ;—thus the external orifice, which is surrounded by the constrictor vaginaj muscle, is the narrowest part; the middle portion is the largest; and the upper end is intermediate in dimen- sions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the side, interior * Erectile bodies of the female genital organs, and opening of the vagina (Kobelt). A. Sphincter vaginaj muscle, b. Clitoris, o. Nympha. a. Bulb of the vestibule, b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris, c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris.