614 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. the uTi ^^^'^ thigh are to be thrown apiele. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee- joint the student is to note its attachment to the edges of the patella, and its union with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the knee. Follow out In raising the inner piece of the fascia, the narrow muscle appear- an(i°iix"it (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia ; and to prevent its- displacement, it should be fixed with stitches along both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorius, viz., a plexus beneath it at the middle of the and pre- thigh from the saphenovis, internal cutaneous, and obturator; two iu'^eontact "^^^ branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle,—one crossing witii it. the surface, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle ; and the trunk of the great saphenous escaping from beneath it near the knee, with the patellar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Dissect the Internal to the sartorius some strong muscles (adductors) are ^ inclined downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay bare the fore part of these muscles ; and beneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorius, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before and clean mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the the extensor sartorius is the large extensor of the knee. For its dissection the mus cIg knee is to be bent, to make tense the fibres; and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee-joint is not to be removed now,—its arrangement will be noticed after. Dissect The little muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh,—tensor fascS^ of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, corre- sponding with the width of the muscle, should be left along the outer aspect of the limb. After this slip has been detached, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided by one or two transverse cuts, and is to be followed backwards to its insertion into the femur. Sartorius: The SARTORIUS (fig. 191, a) is the longest muscle in the body, and extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other, origin; Its origin is tendinous from the upper anterior iliac spinous pro- cess of the hip-bone, and from about half the interval between this course over inferior process. The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, the thigh; which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is inserted into insertion, the inner suiface of the tibia,—mainly into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint. Relations of The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some obiijue*"'^ cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and portion; forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle ; it rests on the