DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 464 sizo and boundaj'ics. Constricting boundaries, how re- laxed. Usual ves- sels around ring. Unusual state of vessels. Femoral hernia. Coverings, six in number. Stricture either at neck, or at saphenous opening. Incision to (1 ivide ex- tcrrial and internal stricture. lymiihatic gland. IJoimding it inlemally are Gimbernat's liga- ment (e) and the conjoined tendon ; and limiting it externally is tlie femoral vein (h). In front is Pouj^art'.s ligament, with the deeji crural arch; and behind is the pubi.s, covered b}' the pectineus muscle and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Crossing the front of the space, but at some little distance from it, is the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the i'eiuale. The o])eii- ing is larger in the female than in the male. Two of the boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and ahavp- edged, though their condition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the tliigh is raised and approximated to its fellow, those boimding parts will be relaxed. Position of vessels around the ring (hg. 143). On the outer side is the femoral vein (h) ; and above this are the epigastric vessels (c). In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubis ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior asjiect of the ring. But in some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the epigastric, and lies along the ring as it passes to the pelvis. It may have two positions with respect to the crural ring :—either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the iimer side of that space free from vessels ; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament; in this last condition the ring Avill be encircled by vessels except beliiiid. Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by the opening of the crural ring ; and it descends internal to the vein in the crural sheath, as far as the saphenous opening in the thigh, where it projects to the siirface. Coverings. In its progress the intestine will push before it the peritoneum and subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it wdl dis]Dlace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland which fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the sajDhenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath, and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the superficial fascia and skin of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller details (pp. 606 to 610). Seat of stricture. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the margin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. And the constric- tion may be caused either l.iy a fibrous band outside the upper narrow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside the neck, as in ingumal hernia. Division of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constrict- ing fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made down to the neck of the sac at the inner and upjDcr part. And to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, the peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and ihe knife is to be carried horizontally inwards, or upwards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few nat's ligament. fibres of the edge of Gimher-