CAVITY OF THE PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is tlie part of the general abdominal space Denuition -'ituate below the brim of the true pelvis (p. 466). tion. Boundaries. The space is surrounded by the firm ring of the Boundai'ies; jielvic bones : it is bounded behind by the sacrum and coccyx, with behind and the pyriformes muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; and laterally and in front, by the hip-bones covered by the internal < ibturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the i^erineum, the cavity is limited by the below, fascia reflected from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : it is only in this direction, where the boimding structures are to some extent moveable, that the size of the space can be appreciably altered. Contents. In the pelvis are contained the urinary bladder with the Contents, beginning of the urethra, the lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organs, according to the sex. The viscera are supplied \\n.th vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. Lining the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which Outline or covers the obturator internus and pyriformis muscles, and sends a tJjg pg'j^.'l^ °* process inwards to support the viscera. Dissection. To bring into view the pelvic fascia, the external iliac step-s to de- vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissec- the pel- tion of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side ^^^'^^^' of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through i„ the on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the Peivis, Avail of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away with the handle of the scalpel a quantity of fat. By this proceeding the membrane is dissected in its upper half, or as low as the situation of the portion (recto-vesical) which is directed inwards to the viscera. To display the lower lialf, the student must raise the outlet of the