662 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Terniiuatioii of small r>[-\ sciatic. Termination of internal cutaneous. Take away the fat. Deep fascia continuity and attach- ments. Take away the fascia. Muscles in superficial group. Gastrocne- mius arises by two heads from the femur. ends helow in tendo Achillis; relations; The SMALL SCIATIC NERVE (lig. 203,«) perforates the fascia at the lower end of the popliteal space, and reaches to ahout the middle of the leg -with the external saphenous vein : it raudfies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nerve. Offset of the internal cutaneous ( fig. 203, The posterior branch of the internal cutaneous of the thigh (p. CO4) extends to the middle of the leg, and communicates with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. The deep fascia will be seen by removing the fat. The superficial vessels and nerves may be either cut or turned aside. The DEEP FASCIA on the posterior aspect of the leg covers the muscles, and sends a thick process between tlie deep and superficial groups. Above, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the knee ; and below, it joins the annular ligaments. Internally, it is fixed to the edge of the tibia : externally, it is continued imintenxiptedly from the one aspect of the limb to the other ; l.)ut from its deep surface an intermuscular sej)tum is sent inwards between the muscles of the back and of the outer side of the leg to be attached to the outer border of the fibula. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Dissection. The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the heel, and is to be taken from the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the inner cut head of the gastrocnemius, the fibres of the muscle will be more easily cleaned. Superficial Group op Muscles. In the calf of the leg there are three muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and jjlantaris, which extend the anlde. The first two are large, giving rise to the prominence on the surface, and end below by a common tendon ; but the last is inconsiderable in size, and chiefly tendinous. The gastrocnemius (fig. 203, a), the most superficial muscle, has two distinct pieces or heads, which arise from the lower end of the femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a large tendon to an impression at the upper aspect of the inner condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus ; and by short tendinous fibres to the line above the condyle. The outer head is similarly fixed by tendon to a pit on the outer surface of the corresponding condyle, above the attaclrment of the popliteus muscle, and to the posterior surface of the bone immediately above the condyle. The fleshy fibres of the two heads are united along the middle line by a narrow thin aponeurosis, and terminate below Avith tlie soleus in the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia. The other is in contact with the soleus and plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space, and are crossed by the tendons of the hamstrings. The inner head is larger, and descends lower than the outer. In the outer head a piece of fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone may exist.