DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 384 insertion. Belations. Use: scapula free to glide; in rotation of bone. Trace spinal accessory. Spinal accessory nei^ve in trapezius. Dissect'on to reflect trapezius ; to prepare parts in the neck. Clean the scapular muscles. Parts covered by trapezius. Ligamen- tuin nucliaj inner third of the superior curved line of tlie occi]jital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect, into the inner border of tlie acromion, and into the upper border of the spine of the scapula as far as an inch from the root of that process, as well as into a rough prominence on the lower margin of the spine near the inner end. The muscle is subcutaneous. At the outer side the lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, which glides over the smooth stirface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The upper edge forms the hinder boundary of the posterior triangular space of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds witli the origin of the deltoid muscle. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column; but tlic upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevating, and the lower fibres will help in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trape- zius imparts a rotatory movement to it, and raises the acromion. Dissection. The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided near tlie scapula, over the situation of the spinal accessory nerve, so that the ramifications of that nerve beneath the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cervical plexus may be observed. A small artery to the trapezius (superficial cervical) accompanies the nerve. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (p. Ill), having crossed the po.s- terior triangle of the neck, passes beneath the trapezius, and forms a plexiform union with branches of the third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve can be followed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. To see the parts covered by the trapezius, the pieces of the divided muscle are to be thrown inwards and outwards. The dissector of the neck should now clean the .splenius, and define the things beneath the clavicle, viz., the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle with the suj)rascapular nerve and A'essels, as well as the transverse cervical vessels, and the small nerves to the levator anguli scapulae and rhomboid muscles. If the traj^ezius be detached along the middle Kne, the ligamentum ntichse, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. * The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae muscles, which are fixed to the base of the scapula; and while this is being done, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fleshy fibres. * Parts covered by the trapezius. The trapezius conceals in the neck the splenius, a small part of the complexus, and the levator anguli scapulae ; in the dorsal region it covers the rhomboidei, the erector spina), and the latissimus dorsi. Near the insei-tion it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The LIGAMENTUM NUCH^E is a naiTow fibrous band, Avhich extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vetebra to the ex- ternal occipital protuberance. From its deep surface a thin layer