4 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Prolonga- tion to ear. Use of an- terior and posterior belly. How to see temporal fascia. Temporal fascia. Attach- ments, relations, and layers. To see tem- poral muscle. Temporal muscle. Origin, insertion, and relations. of the scalp and a fimall quantity of fat, which is traversed hy numerous short tibrous bands uniting it closely to the skin. Its deej) surface is connected to the pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that the scalp moves freely over the skull. By making a transverse incision through the aponeurosis above the ear and separating it from the pericranium towards the side of the head, it will be seen to be joined by a thin membrane, which springs from the skull above the temporal line, and descends, closely imited to the deep surface of the attollens aurem muscle, over the temporal fascia to be attached to the pinna of the ear. Action. When the anterior belly contracts it raises the eyebrow, smootliing the skin at the root of the nose, and AVTinkluig transversely that of the forehead; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalp. The posterior belly will move back the scalp ; and the bellies acting in succession can carry the hairy scalp forwards and backwards. Dissection. After the removal of the upj)er auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temforal fascia is a white shining membrane, which is stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attach:nent to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; and inferiorly, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its ciitaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with an accomjDanying artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the skull, and to be thrown down to the zygomatic arch, in order that the origin of the imderlying temporal muscle may be examined. A soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it near the zygoma is to be taken away. The difference in thickness of parts of the fascia will be evident. The TEMPORAL MUSCLE is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker at the lower end. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and from the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend, converging to a tendon, which is inserted into the margins and inner sui-face of the coronoid process of the lower jaw (p. 82). On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deeiD temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion