DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 70 Vertebral vein, and branches. Internal mammary artery in tho neck. Tliyroid axis divides into three. Supra- s capillar artery: Transverse cervical arterj'. offsets: size and endiBg vary, Inferior thyroid artery gives laryn- geal offset, and ascend- ing cervical branch. Veins cor- responding to arteries. The vertebral vein issues with its accomijanying artery, to which it is here superficial, and descends over the subclavian artery to join the innominate vein ; it receives the deejj cervical vein, and the branch (anterior vertebral vein) that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. The internal mammary branch leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, and on the outer side of the innominate vein, enters the thorax between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleiu-a. As the artery dis- aj^pears in the chest, it is crossed superficially by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distribtited to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be learnt with the dissection of those parts. Thyroid axis. This is a short thick trunk (fig. 16) which arises from the front of the subclavian artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches—one to the th}Toid body, and two to the back of the shotdder. The suprascapular branch courses ou.twards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior border of the scaj^ula, and entering the supraspinous fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are more fully seen in the dissection of the back. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial cervical and posterior scaprdar arteries. (See the dissection of the back.) In its course outwards through the posterior triangular space, this branch crosses in front of the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, but usually behind the omo-hyoid. Some small ofi"sets are supplied by it to the parts in the posterior triangle. In many bodies the transverse branch arising from the thja'oid axis is of small size, and ends as the superficial cervical artery, while the posterior scaptdar branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian trunk (fig. 16). The inferior thyroid, branch is the largest off'set of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous course to the thyroid body, this branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the accom- panying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the recurrent nerve. Behind the lower part of the thyroid body it divides into branches which ramify in that organ, and communicate with the superior thyroid and its fellow. Near the larynx an inferior laryngeal branch is directed upwards with tlie nerve of the same name, and other offsets are furnished to the trachea and the neighbouring muscles. The ascending cervical branch of the thyroid is directed upwards between the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets ai-e conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. The veins corresponding with the branches of the thja-oid axis have the following destination :—tlixise with the suprascapular and