ORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. 189 nerves, and is attached to the valve of Vieiissens over the fourth ventricle (fig. 65, ^). The nerve appears between the cerebrum and cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri, and is directed forwai-ds to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelH near the posterior clinoid process. Deep oriffin. lu tlie valve of Vieussens the nerve crosses to the opposite nucleii« in aide, decussating with its fellow, and then arches round the aqueduct of Sylvius to reach its nucleus la the floor of that canal, immediately below the aqueduct, nucleus of the third nei've. The FIFTH or trigeminal (^) is the largest of the cranial nerves, Fifth nei-ve and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or roots)^° motor, which are separate to beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the both issuing upper than the lower border. The small or aganglionic root is '^""^ the higher, and is separated from the large root by one or two of the transverse bundles of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and join in the peculiar manner stated on page 18. Deep orif/in. The larcje root divides within the pons into two parts. One Deep origin of these is connected with a mass of grey matter (sensory nucleus of the fifth) °q l^gns aiid* near the floor of the fourth ventricle : the other (ascending root of the fifth) medulla arises from the cells of the posterior horn of the grey matter in the lower part oblongata; of the medulla oblongata (Bechterew), and is directed upwards on the outer surface of the gelatinous substance of Rolando (p. 198) to join the upper part. The small root also has a double origin, one part springing from a special of small in nucleus (motor nucleus of the fifth) in the floor of the fourth ventricle internal ^^j^^^'aiQ to the sensory nucleus, and the other (descending root of the fifth) from a collection of nerve-cells on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The SIXTH NERVE (^), abducent nerve of the eyeball, springs from Sixth nerve the outer part of the pyramidal body close to the pons, and often pjTamid, by a second band from the lower border of the pons. Deep origin. The fibres of the nerve pass backwards, through the lower and nucleus part of the pons, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, beneath the fourth outer part of the fasciculus teres. ventricle. The SEVENTH or facial nerve (portio dura of the seventh pair, Seventh Willis,'') appears at the lower border of the pons, to which it is utera/Tract closely adherent, in the depression between tbe upper ends of the obion'^ate*- olivary and restiform bodies. A small accessory bundle (portio .joinecf by ' intermedia of Wrisberg) leaves the medulla oblongata between the pOTTion*^''^*^ facial and the auditory nerves, and joins the former within the internal auditory meatus. Deep orif/in. The fibres of the facial nerve pass backwards to the floor of Deep origin the fourth ventricle, and there wind round the nucleus of the sixth nerve, to ^ join a group of nerve-cells lying on the outer side of the latter. "Whether dm^iarmrt Bome of the fibres are connected with the cells of the nucleus of the sixth is of pons.' tincertain. The eighth or auditory nerve (portio mollis of the seventh nerve from