697 INTKACAPSULAR LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. Fig. 216.* another joint or in another dissection) and leaving entire the ante- rior ; when this has been done, the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind the condyles of the femur. The two interarticular or semilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 216) partly cover on each side the articular surface of the tibia. They are thick at the convex margin, where they are united by fibres to the capsule, and are thin, sharp, and free at the concave edge ; they are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist m giving depth to the fossee for the reception of the condyles of the femur, but are flattened below. Inserted into the tibia at their ex- tremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachment to the bone, like the crucial liga- ments ; and they become car- tilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is re- flected over them. The internal fibro-cartilage (a) is ovoid in form, and is less sharply curved than the external. In front it is attached by a pointed end close to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. The external fibro-cartilage (6) is nearly circular in form, and is connected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow. Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches ; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore part is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the popHteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory bands, one in front, the other behind. The anterior or transverse ligament (c) is a narrow band of fibres between the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- times it is very small or even absent. The posterior or ascending hand (d), thicker and stronger than the other, springs from the back of the outer fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the femur, as a single band (fig. 216, d), when it is Semilunar cartilages are two. Common characters. Internal is ovoid. External nearly cir- cular in form : its trans- verse and posterior band. * View of the head of the tibia with the fibro-cartilages attached : the crucial ligaments have been cut through, a. Inner, and b, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. c. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior band (cut) of the external cartilage, e. Posterior, and /, anterior crucial ligament.