DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 556 and descril)es a slight curve, witli the concavity forwards, below ther symphysis pubis. Its external opening (rneatus urinarius) Ls placed within the vidva (p. 432). relations. In its course to the surface it is embedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the peri- neum, where it is surrounded by fil^res of the deep transveree muscle, and a layer of circular involuntary fibres (p. 434). A plexus of veins surrounds the uretlira as well as the vagina. Section IV. VESSELS AND NEEVES OF THE PELVIS. Vessels anil nerves of the pelvis. To dissect the vessels of the pelvis. nerves, veins. Internal iliac arterv size and length; termination relations ; position of vein ; In the pelvis are contained the internal iliac vessels and their branches to the Adscera, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sym- pathetic nerve. This section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and female jDelvis. Directions. The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. The air should be previously let out of the bladder; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removed from the trunks of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the artery that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera; and the cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. With the vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, though these will probably not be seen; but in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and rectum, branches of the sacral spinal nerves will come into view. The veins may be removed in a general dissection. When the vessels are prejDared the bladder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 172, g) is One of the trunks resulting from the division of the common iliac artery, and fimiishes branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the organs of generation, and to the limb. In the adult the vessel is a short trunk of large capacity, which measures from an inch to an inch and a half in length. Directed downwards towards the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the artery termi- nates generally in two large pieces, from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends forwards on the bladder. The artery is covered by the peritoneum, and the ureter crossei> its upper end obliquely on the inner side. It lies on the sacrum and lumbo-sacral cord. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat to its inner side.