690 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Nerves of the front of the leg. ReouiTcnt. Musculo- cutaneous suyjplies peronei. nerves. "^^^ anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be folloAvecl upwards to their origin from the external jiopliteal; and a small branch to the knee-joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves op the Front of the Leg. Between the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial; and from the l^eginning of the anterior tibial nerve, or the end of the popliteal trunk, a small branch called the recurrent articular is given off. The RECURRENT ARTICULAR BRANCH takes the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle, in which most of its fibres end. A small twig may be followed to the knee- joint. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE is Continued between the extensor longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 683). Before the nerve becomes cutaneous it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. Anterior The ANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 211) is directed beneath the ttie artery ^' extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the tibial artery in the lower part of the upper third of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the leg and foot to the first interosseous space (p. 683). In the leg it lies for the most part in front of the anterior tibial vessels, but on the foot it is generally external to the dorsal artery. Branches. In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior tibial muscle, the extensors of the toes, and the peroneus tertius. On the dorsum of the foot it furnishes a considerable branch to the short extensor : this becomes enlarged, and gives offsets to the articulations of the foot. Muscles on the Outer Side of the Leg (fig. 205). Two muscles occupy this situation, and are named peroneal froni their attachment to the fibula : they are distinguished as long and short. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others. The peroneus longus (fig. 205, g), the more superficial of the two muscles, passes into the sole of the foot round the outer border. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia by a small slip ; from the head, and the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for two- thirds of the length, gradually tapering downwards ; and from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly, it ends in a tendon which is continued through the external annular ligament with the peroneus brevis, lying in the groove at the back of the external malleolus ; and it passes finally in a separate sheath below the peroneus brevis along the side of the os calcis, and through the groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, to the sole of the foot. Its position in the foot, and its insertion are described before (p. 682). In the leg the muscle is immediately beneath the fascia, and lies on the peroneus brevis. Beneath the annular ligament it is placed over the middle i)iece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle branches to muscles. External muscles of the leg. Peroneus longus: origin from the fibula ; insertion into bones of the foot relations in the leg