621 EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. expansion is derived : this prolongation, wliicli is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in front of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Subcrareus muscle. Beneath the crureus, near the knee-joint, is a ^J'^^^J^^^"^" thiu layer of pale fibres, which is but a part of the large muscle, muscle separated from the rest by areolar tissue. Attached to the femur in ends ontlie the lower fom-th, and often by an outer and inner slip, it ends in synovial sac. aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the knee-joint. Action. All parts of the quadriceps extend the knee-joint when Uf? with . . ■■ ■, 1 , n 1 • • • J. tibia move- the tibia is moveable ; and the rectus can flex the hip-jomt over able; which it passes. The fleshy bellies are strong enough to break the patella transversely over the end of the femur, or to rupture some- times the common tendon. With the tibia as the fixed point the vasti will bring forwards the femur, and straighten the knee, as in rising from the stooping posture and jumping; and the rectus will prop the pelvis on the femur, or assist in mo^dng it forwards in stooping. The subcrureus contracts in extension of the knee, and elevates iiow sub- crurctis the synovial membrane above the patella. acts. Intermuscular septa. The jjrocesses of the fascia lata, which intermus- limit laterally the extensor muscle of the knee, are thus named, and '^^^^^ ''^^P** are fixed to the linea aspera and the lines leading to the condyles of are two: the femur. The external septum is the stronger, and reaches from the insertion the outer of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the femur. It is stronger; situate between the vastus externus and crureus on the one side, and the short head of the biceps on the other, to all of which it gives origin : it is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external articular vessels and nerve. The inner partition is very thin along the side of the vastus the inner is internus; and its place is supplied by the strong tendon of '""^'^tinct. the adductor magnus between the inner condyle and the linea aspera. The EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY (fig. 192, is the chief vessel External for the supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises arter™^'*'^ usually from the outer side of the profunda (deep femoral) artery, but often from the femoral trunk. It is directed outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius divides and rectus muscles, and supplies ofisets to those muscles. Its terminal branches are ascending, transverse, and descending :— The ascending branch is directed beneath the tensor vaginae ascending, femoris to the outer side of the hip, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the contiguous muscles. The transverse branch, the smallest, divides into two or three transverse, which enter the vastus externus, and anastomose with the per- forating arteries. The descending branch is the largest, and ends in pieces which are and dc- distributed to the crureus and vastus externus muscles. One con- ^ranche^ siderable branch descends to the knee, and anastomoses with the