DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 398 outer branches, siiicl give a spinal braucli. Lumbar arteries are also divided into inner and outer brandies. Occipital Deep cervi- cal vein, and plexus of back of neck. Beginning of vertebral vein. Dorsal and lumbar. and deep veins. Huscles of the fifth layer. Dissection (if the last layer of muscles. Rectus posticus major: attach- ments ; relations; s])inse and 8emisi)inali.s, a)i(l furnish small cutaneous oftsets witli the nerves. * The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest and extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes Ijy the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intrasjnnal artery to the sj)inal canal (p. 414). * The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES divide, lilce the foregoing, into internal and external pieces, as soon as tbev reach the intei-A^al between the erector and multifidus spuiaj. Each gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. * The internal branches are small, and end in the multilidu- spinte. * The external branches supply the erector spinaj; and offsets are continued to the integiunents with the superficial nerves. Veins. The occipital veins communicate usually with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen, and pass beneath the complexus to enter tlie deep cervical vein. The deep cervical vein is of large size, and besides receiving tlie occipital veins, communicates Avith the other deep vfeins of this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck. It passes forwards with its artery between the transverse processes, and joins the vertebral vein. The vertebral vein Ijegins above the neural arch of the atlas by the union of an off'set leaving the spiual canal with the arteiy and branches from the above-mentioned plexus. * The dorsal and Inmbar veins agree in their branching and distri- bution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the con-esjiond- ing trimks of the thoracic and abdomiiial wall. In contact with the spinous processes and laminae of the ^•ertebla' is a deeper set of veins (dorsal spinal), which anastomose freely together, and commiuiicate through the ligamenta subflava ■\vith the veins in the interior of the spinal canaL * Fifth Layer of Muscles. In this layer are included the small recti and obliqui of the head, the transverso-spinales, the iiiter- spinales, and the intertransversales. Dissection. Most of the remaining muscles of the back have been xuicovered by the previous dissections. Between the first two vertebrte and the occipital bone are the straight and oblique muscles. * Between the erectoi' sjjinse and the spines of the vertebra are the transverso-spinales, and internal to these the small interspinales. The intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be exposed by removing the erector spinai. The RECTUS CAPITIS posticus major (fig. 122, a) arises {row the side of the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as Avell as into the surface beloAV it. The muscle is covered Ijy the complexus, and at its insertion by