DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 122 form, lengtli. Is an incom- plete bag. Relation.*. Attaeli- nieuts, and con- struction . Aponeurosis of pharynx. Muscles in two layers. Pliaryngeal fascia. Lower constrictor ai'ises from larynx and ends in the middle line. Parts in contact with it. Middle con- strictor arises froni hyoid bone. vertebra. In form it is somewhat conical, with the dilated part upwaixls ; and its length averages about four and a half inches, but varies according to the position of the head and the degree of eleva- tion of the larynx. The tube of the pharjmx is incomplete in front, where it com- municates with the cavities above mentioned, but is quite closed above, behind, and at the sides. Below, it opens into the gullet. On each side of it are placed the trunks of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein, and the accompanying cranial and sym- pathetic nerves. Behind it is the spinal colrunn, covered by muscles, viz., longi colli and recti capitis antici. In front, the pharynx is united to the larynx, the hyoid bone, the tongue, and the bony framework of the nasal fosssB, which form the boundaries of its cavity in this direction. Behind and at the sides, it has a special muscular wall, and is only united by very loose connective tissue to surroiinding parts. At the upper end the bag is completed by a fibrous aponeurosis which fixes it to the base of the skull; and the whole is lined by mucous membrane. The a2)onen,rosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of the pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube to the base of the skull, and to complete the jDosterior boundary. Siiperiorly it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital, and the petrous i^ai-t of the temporal bone ; but inferiorly it becomes thin, and is lost in the layer of comiective tissue between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane some of the fibres of the superior constrictor muscle terminate. The Muscles of the pharyngeal wall are arranged in two layers— an outer comprising the three constrictors, the fibres of which run more or less transversely to the direction of the tube, and an iimer of longitudinal fibres derived from the stylo-pharyngeiis and palato- pharjaigeus. Externally the constrictor muscles are covered by a fascia, wliich is continued forwards above, beneath the internal pterygoid muscle, to the surface of the buccinator (bucco-pharpigeal fascia, p. 26). The INFERIOR CONSTRICTOR (fig. 29,a), the most superficial, arise*' from the side of the cricoid cartilage, and from the inferior comu, oblique line, and upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The origin is small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres radiate as they pass backwards, to be inserted along the middle line, where the muscles of opposite sides join. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the sheath of the carotid vessels, and with the muscles covering the spinal column. The lower border is nearly horizontal, and beneath it the inferior laryngeal nerve and vessels (^) pass ; while the upper border ascends very obliquely and overlaps the middle constrictor. A few of the lowest fibres of the muscle turn downwards, and are continued into the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. The MIDDLE CONSTRICTOR (fig. 29,b) has a similar shape to the preceding, that is to say, it is narrowed in front and e.xpanded behind. Its fibres arise from the great and small cornua of the liyoid boiic,