407 SPINAL PIA MATER. attached to it. In the cervical region the membrane has usually a i-ather dark colour, due to the presence of iHgment-cells in it. Where the spinal cord ceases, viz., about the lower edge of the itonds body of the iirst lumbar vertebra, the sheath of the pia mater con- smnlTiibious tracts, and gives rise to a slender thread-lilce prolongation, the ^^'g^'^'-jj^jj^ Jilum tenninale or central ligament of the cord (tig. 127, d). This tcrminale. contains a little nervous substance in its upjjer part; and below, it blends with the central imj)ervious process of the dura mater. A vein and artery accompany the filum terminale, and distinguish it from the surromiding nerves. The liganientum denticulatum (fig. 125, c) is a white, fibrous band The dentate on each side of the spinal cord, and has received its name from its ^'sameut serrated appearance. It serves to support the cord, which is fixed by it to the sheath of the dura mater. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the is fixed on band reaches upwards to the beginning of the medulla oblongata, corcf "^'^ and ends below on the pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of tri- angular or tooth-like projections {d), wliich are fixed at intervals into the dura mater, each being about midway between the aper- and on othei- tures of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty- ^jj^gj!"'? one denticulations, of which the first is attached to the dura mater number and opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite attachment the tweKth dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. of points. Vessels and nerves of the membranes. The spinal dura raater has Vessels and but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, its ofiice being durl^mater • different. Filaments of the sympathetic and spinal nerves are fur- nished to the membrane. The arachnoid has no vessels ; and proof of its containing nerves ofarachnoid; in man is yet wanting. The pia mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though of pia mater, this is less marked here than on the brain ; and from them off"sets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves derived from the sympathetic and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken away on one Dissection side ; and the nerve-roots are to be traced outwards to their trans- ^Irves^ mission through apertures in the dura mater. One of the offsets of the dura mater, which has been cut of some and the length, is to be laid open to expose the contained ganglion. The ^''"g^'^"- student should define the ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 126 b), and should trace a bimdle of threads of the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting also of two bundles of threads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior root beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves ; and Trunks of each nerve is constructed by the blending of two roots (anterior i/ei^es. and posterior) in the intervertebral foramen (fig. 126). They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional Number and subdivisions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, aacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in