521 VAS DEFEllENS. After the removal of the serous iiieinbrane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it will then measure twenty length ami feet or more in length. The diameter of its canal is about y^oth of an inch, thougli there is a slight diniinution in size towards the •globus minor; but it increases again as it approaches the vas <leferens. The VAS DEFERENS (fig. 164, k) begins opposite the lower end of yasdefe- the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis, reus: At first the excretory duct is slightly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm, round, and direct tube ; near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, but this condition will be referred to with the viscera of the pelvis. In its course to the urethra it ascends over the hinder part of the course to testicle, on the inner side of the epididymis, and then along the urethra; blood-vessels of the spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal iibdominal ring; here it bends dowiwards round the epigastric artery (p. 452), and is then continued over the bladder (p. 550), and through the prostate to open into the urethra. The length of length and this part of the excretory duct is about two feet, and the width of size, its canal about J^th of an inch. Opening into the vas deferens, at the angle of union with the vas abenuns ■epididymis, there is frequently a small, narrow, caecal appendage, the frequently vas aberrans of Haller (fig. 164, I). It is convoluted, and projects g|°y^J|*„ upwards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled. Its capacity ^^^^ ^.j^p is greatest at the free end. Structure. The excretory duct of the testis has a thick muscular xin-ee coats coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined inter- fonn the nally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, flbrous^ like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour : it is thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The viusGular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres ^ „^^scuia,- arranged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular filjres. The mucous membrane is marked by lonofitudinal folds in the , ,° and a straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated nmcous. portion. Organ of Giraldes. In the spermatic cord of the foetus and child, or^-m of sometimes in the adult, a small whitish, granular-looking body may Girald6s: be recognised, which is named after its discoverer the organ of 'Hraldh, or the paradidymis (Waldeyer). It consists of several rcuiains of small masses of convoluted tubules, which appear to be remnants of the lower part of the Wolffian body. Bloodr-vessels and nerves of the testicle. The branches of the Spermatio tpermatic artery supply offsets to the epidid}mis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in tlie vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea, before being distributed to the lobes of the testis. The. spermatic vein results from tlie vuiion of branches issuing Siiumuitic vein.