MESENCEPHALON. 225 is continued outwards and forwai-ds : the upper brachium passes into the optic tract; while the lower band sinks beneath a small but ^^*9r'^^^g well defined oval prominence, which is placed between the cms cerebri body, and the optic thalamus, and is named the internal geniculate body. The quadrigeminal bodies are small masses of grey substance, covered by a white layer. From the grey matter of the upper one fibres of the optic tract take origin. Behind the quadrigeminal bodies are seen the superior peduncles Below of the cerebellum (fig. 65,1; 70, sp) with the valve of Vieussens ffueUsseen. (fig. 65, k) between them. Issuing from beneath the transverse fibres of pons, and arching over the cerebellar peduncle, is an oblique, slightly raised- band named the fillet (fig. 70, /), which disappears under the lower quadrigeminal body. The fillet is a white fibrous tract, the origin of which is uncertain. Fillet: but which appears in sections of the uj)per part of the pons between the reticular formation and the deep transverse fibres. At the upper edge of the pons the outer fibres become superficial, and curvinor roimd the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, pass to the outer or miT)prnci3.1 quadrigeminal bodies, in which many of the fibres are lost, while part; others decussate in the lamina quadrigemina, above the aqueduct of Sylvius, with those of the opj)osite side. The inner fibres of the inner or fillet maintain their deep position, and are continued upwards in ^^^^ the tegmentum to the cerebral hemisphere. The origin of the optic tract can now be seen. At the outer side Optic tract of the cms cerebri the optic tract forms a bend (genu), and then jiates divides into two parts. The inner and smaller of these springs ^^^-g^'^'^^jj from the internal geniculate body ; while the outer is continued thalamus, from the external geniculate body and optic thalamus, receiving also the bxachium of the superior quadrigeminal body. The posterior commissure (fig. 65, e) is the tliin foremost part of Posterior the lamina quadrigemina, which is folded back so as to present a rounded margin in front towards the third ventricle, above the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. On each side it joins the optic thalamus, and to its upper jjart the stalk of the pineal body is attached. It consists mainly of decussating fibres continuous with those of the fillet; but some are said to be commissural, uniting the tegmenta of the two sides. The pineal body (conarium ; fig. 65, g) is ovoidal in shape, like Pineal the cone of a pine, and about a quarter of an inch in length. It lies ^^^^^ ' with its base turned forwards in the groove between the superior quadrigeminal bodies. It is surrounded by pia mater ; and its base IS attached by a hollow white stalk, below to the posterior commis- sure, and above to the optic thalamus on each side, along which it sends forwards the thin band already described as the pineal stria (/; p. 223). This body is of a rod colour and very vascular. It is not structure, composed of nervous substance, but consists of small follicles lined by epithelium, and containing minute granular masses of calcareous matter (brain-sand) : similar concretions are often found on its siu^ace, and adhering to its stalk. Q