DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. 106 Size. Enlarged below hyoid bone. Branches. Ascending pharyngeal artery ends at skull. Branches are prever- tebral, pharyngeal, and menin- geal. Directions concerning small branches of the nerves. Dissection to open jugvdar foramen. Follow spinal acces- sory and pn('U7iio- gastric; The size of tlie vein remains much the same from the skull to the hyoid bone, Avhere it is suddenly increased owing to the junction of a number of tributaries con-esponding to branches of the external carotid artery. Its lower dilatation and its valve have l)een before referred to (p. 76). The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz., the inferior petrosal sinus close below the skuU, the pharyngeal, lijigual, facial and superior thyroid veins near the hyoid bone, and the middle thyroid vein opposite the lower part of the larynx. The ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY (fig. 26, g) is a long slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the begin- ning of that vessel. It runs upwards between the internal carotid artery and the pharynx to near the base of the skull, where it ends in pharyngeal and meningeal branches. Its offsets are numerous, but small:— a. One or more imveiiebral branches pass to the longus colli and recti antici muscles, supplying also the nerves and lymphatic glands of this region. b. Pharyngeal branches supply the wall of the pharynx, the soft palate and the tonsil. The highest of these, one of the terminal branches of the artery, ramifies in the superior constrictor, the Eusta- chian tube, and the levator and tensor palati muscles : this branch is sometimes large and furnishes the inferior palatine artery instead of the facial (p. 79). c. The meningeal branches enter the skull through the foramen lacerum, the jugular foramen and the anterior condylar foramen (p. 16). These arteries are seldom injected. The pharyngeal veins form a plexus which empties itself into the internal jugular trunk. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the necJc. By the time this stage of the dissection has been arrived at, the condition of the x^arts ^xi\]. not permit the tracing of the very minute filaments of the cranial nerves in the jugular foramen, and all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk are therefore to be omitted for the present. Afterwards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the bone has been softened by acid and the nerves hardened in spirit, the exami- nation of the branches now passed over may be made. * In the jugular foramen. Supposing the dissection of the internal carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 103, let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skull. Let him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds exter- nally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vein, the small auricidar branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve is to be found ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. * Trace then the spinal accessory and pnemno-gastric nerves through the aperture, by opening the fibrous sheath around them. Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should