rREPAKATION OF PHARYNX. 121 tlu' base, ftiul mnkc the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the ri"ht side a cut, with the chisel, is to be carried along the cut bnso of Une of uidon of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone. On the left side another cut with the chisel is to be made in the sanie direction, but through the occipital bone internal to the jugular foramen and the inferior petrosal sinns ; tliis is to begin rather behind that foramen, and to end opposite the one on the other side. The skull is then to be sawn through vertically on the saw loft side left side close behind the mastoid process, so tliat the incision shall ° ^ ^ • meet the posterior end of the cut made with the chisel. Fmally, placing the skull again upside down, let the student cut yJj'^Q^ljjj the through the basilar process of the occipital bone between the attach- basilat- ments of the pharynx and the muscles of the spinal colmnn, the pi'ocess; chisel being directed backwards. The base of the skull is now th«i cut^ «livided into two parts (one having the pharynx attached to it, the ^° ^^^'^ ^' other articulating with the spine), which can be readily separated with a scalpel. The spinal colunm with the j)iece of the occipital bone connected Preserve with it should be set aside, and kept for after examination. spine." Dissection of the pharynx (fig. 29). Let the student take the Fasten anterior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling i''^^'^^"^- the pharynx -with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the (esophagus may be pendent and towards him. On the left side of the pharynx a different view from that of the Dissect right side may be obtained of the cranial and sympathetic nerves Mt^s^de," near the skull (p. 108), when some loose areolar tissue and the styloid process with its muscles have been removed : if the lower ends of the nerves are fixed with pieces of tliread, they can be more easily displayed. Afterwards the dissector may proceed to remove the fascia from then the constrictor muscles of the right side (fig. 29), in the direction ^iz.^^'^'^^' of the fibres,—these radiating from the side to the middle line. The margins of the two lower constrictor miiscles (middle and in-lower and ferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one, near the larynx, "^1.^^/^,.°°°' will be found the recurrent nerve with vessels ; between the inferior and middle are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels ; and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle disappears beneath the upper border of the middle constrictor. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower upper con- jaw and the pterygo-maxillary ligament, it will be necessary to cut tlirough the internal pterygoid muscle of the right side. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull, are two small muscles of the palate (p and h) entering the pharynx : one, tensor palati, lies close inside the internal pterygoid muscle ; and thcj other, levator palati, is deeper and larger. The Pharynx is a portion of the alimentary canal which gives Pharyux passage to Ijoth food and air. It is placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx, and extends from the base of the skull to the lower Extent border of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, where it ends in the (csophagiis, on a level with the lower part of the sixth cervical