575 STRUCTUEE OF THE PENIS. membranous parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the folds; contracted state of the penis. Its surface is studded throughout with the apertures of minute glands, inlands, which are lodged in the submucous tissue, and the ducts of Avhich are inclined obliquely forwards. Submucous tissue. Beneath the mucous lining of the uretlira is a Submiicous stratum of longitudinal unstriated muscular fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous behind with the sub- nmcous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the nature; muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal ducts. The stratum differs at spots :—It is most developed in the prostate ; fj7^^J?|fjJJJ^°* in the membranous portion the muscular structure is less abundant; Fig. 179.* a b and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms most of the submucous layer. Around the membranous and prostatic divisions of the urethra Erectile there is, in addition, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, a tliroiigliout. thin layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued back- wards from the corpus spongiosum to the neck of the bladder. Structure of the Penis. The form and the relations of the Penis penis having been described on p. 551, the bodies of which it is [^"yascuiar composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one erectile • • • bodies side of the penis, it will show this organ to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) encased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them, and haA'ing tlie corpus spongiosum attached along their under surface. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 178, r). These bodies form the bulk of <^°''P°''a cavernosa the glands of the prostate, ff. Membranous part of the urethra, h. Cowper's glands, a duct from each opening into the urethra, i. Spongy part of the urethra, h. Bulb of the corpus spongiosum. I. Glans penis, n. Fossa navicuiaris. o. Openings of lacunse and glands, r. Corpus cavernosum of the penis. * View of the fibres of the case of the corpus cavernosum. b. External or longitudinal layer, a. Inner or circular fibres. 1. Pectiniform septum.