599 ANATOMY OF SUPERFICIAL PARTS. At the knee the outline of the several bones entering into the Bony formation of the joint may be traced with ease. In front of the ofkneo: joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella may be patella; perceived ; this bone is firmly fixed while the limb is kept in the bent position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint is extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side condyles of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, but j^jj^^^.^ that on the inner side is the larger. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella while the joint is half bent, they will be conducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a slight hollow between it and the femur. Behind the joint is a slight depression over the situation of the ham The ham or popliteal space ; and on its sides are firm boundaries, which are ®"° formed by the tendons (hamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the knee. Dissection. With the limb placed as before directed, the student Dissection, begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be reflected only from the hoUow on ^^J^^g'^'^^^ the front of the thigh close below Poupart's ligament. To raise the top of the skin over it, an incision about four inches in length, and only skin ^^s^- deep, is to be made from the pubis along the inner border of the thigh. At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect; and at the upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the ilium. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the superficial fascia, forms a Superficial general investment for the limb, and is constructed of a network " of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes, how As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous • with that of the neighbouring regions ; consequently it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or the labium according to the sex, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in different thickness bodies, according to the quantity of fat in it; and when well de- '^'^I'l^^- veloped it may be divided into separate layers. Its relations will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To reflect the superficial fascia, incisions similar to To raise the those made in the skin are to be employed ; and the separation from fagc^^*^'*^ the subjacent structures is to be begun below, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. The layer of fat may be thrown outwards readily by a few touches of the knife, when the superficial vessels and inguinal lymphatic glands will come into view. The subcutaneous layer decreases in thickness, and becomes more Relations of fibrous near Poupart's ligament; and at its under aspect it has a fesd?°'*^ smooth and membranous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart's ligament.