SERRATI POSTICI MUSCLES. * The SERRATi MUSCLES are very tliiii, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeiu'otic origins from the spines of the vertebras. *The sm-atus posticus superior (fig. 120, a) arises from the liga- mentum nuchte, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, jmd upper two or three dorsal vertebrae, with the supraspinous liga- ment. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted by slips into four ribs, Fig. 120.* Sen-ati aro two in iiuuiber. The upper the smaller attach- ments ; from fifth, angles. the second to the external to their The muscle rests on the splenius, and is co- vered by the rhomboidei except at its upper border. * The serratus posticus inferior (fig. 119, g) is ■\nder than the preceding jnuscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia lumborum, and is connected to the spinous processes of the last two •dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebrae. The fleshy fibres ascend somewhat to be inserted into the last four ribs outside their angles, each successive piece extending farther forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spinse the vertebral aponeurosis is united. Action. Both serrati are inspiratory muscles. The i;pper one raises the ribs into which it is inserted ; while the lower one draws Tjackwards the lower ribs, and prevents their being carried upwards "by the contraction of the diaphragm. The VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS is a thin fascia which covers the fourth layer of muscles in the thoracic region. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Externally it is fixed to the angles of the ribs ; and in the intervals between the hones it joins the layer of connective tissue covering the intercostal * Part of the third and fourth layers of the muscles of the back. a. Serratus posticus superior, b. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, d. Continuation of the ilio-costalis. b. Longissimus dorsi. p. Spinalis dorsi. relations. Inferior serratus: origin; insertion; and with the upper border of its tendon relations. Use of serrati. Vertebral aponeu- rosis : attach- ments ;