549. RELATIONS OF THE PROSTATE. ^licmoicl flexure resting on it: the vas deferens courses over tlie hinder part of this surface beneath the peritoneum. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the and lateral, obliterated hypogastric artery, which marks the extent of the peri- toneal covering at the side. The surface below this is coimected with the pelvic fascia by very loose areolar tissue. The neck (cervix) is the part of the bladder near the urethra, and Neck, is surrounded by the prostate gland. This ia the lowest part of the organ. When the bladder is empty, the upper wall falls upon the lower; condition the apex lies at the upper end of the pubic symphysis ; and the base ^ladder.'^ is of very small extent and looks downwards. In a vertical section the cavity then appears as a slit, which is continued backwards for a short distance beyond the beginning of the urethra. The UEETER (fig. 170, h) crosses the common or the external iliac ureter in artery, and inclines forwards below the level of the obliterated hyi^o- Pelvis, gastric artery, being covered by the peritoneum constituting the posterior false ligament of the bladder. It enters the bladder at the upper and outer part of the base, at the distance of one inch and a bladder, half or two inches from the prostate gland. The PROSTATE GLAND (fig. 170, h) surrounds the neck of the prostate: Ijladder. Its shape is conical with the base turned upwards, and position ; its size about equals tliat of a large chestnut. In the present form; position of the pelvis, a line from the apex through the middle of axis; t he gland would be directed obliquely backwards and slightly down- wards towards the sacrum ; but in the erect state of the body the axis is nearly vertical. The anterior surface is about three-quarters of an inch from the relations of symphysis pubis, to which it is attached by the anterior true liga- gJu^face' nients of the bladder. On this surface the dorsal vein of the penis divides to enter tlie prostatic plexus. The posterior surface has the posterior greatest extent, and is close to the rectum ; this is the part that is ^"'■'^^'^^> felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. On and side ; each side the prostate is covered by the levator ani. The a'pex rests on the upper surface of the triangular ligament; ^^pex and and the hase suiTounds the neck of the bladder and the common ' ' si;minal ducts. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- it is con- A-esical fascia (p. 544), and the prostatic plexus of veins surrounds sheath'" * it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the perineum; and the common seminal ducts pierce it obliquely to open into the urethra (fig. 177, /). The size of the prostate varies much ; and in size may old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. increase. The VESICUL^ SEMiNALES (fig. 170, (j) are two small sacculated Seminal bodies, each about two inches long, between the base of the bladder '^'^^'^■•ps : and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and has the larger end t,,eir turned upwards towards the ureter, while the smaller touches the relations, ])rostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the pros- tate gland the vesicular approach one another, only the vasa , deferentia intervening ; but higher up they diverge, and enclose