414 THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Wliite substance. Grey and vrhitc sub- stance vary. The white substance of the cord is composed chiefly of medullated nerve-fibres disposed in longitudinal bundles, which are enclosed by irregular septa of connective tissue prolonged from tlie pia matei- ou the surface. Three larger processes of the pia mater extend into the back of the cord ; these are the 2^osterior median septum already referred to, and the posterior intermediate septum on each side, whicli passes forwards in the cervical region from the furrow of the same name, and separates the posterior median and postero-extemal columns. -Modifications in the grey and white substance. The white substance Fig. 130. Fig. 131. + Crescents alter their shape. Vessels of the spln.al canal. Source of the intra spinal arteries. much exceeds the grey in quantity in the cervical and dorsal regions ; but it is less abundant in proportion to the grey matter in the liun- bar enlargement. The grey substance is least in amount in the dorsal region. The comua of the grey crescents decrease in length from above do"VATi, especially the posterior, and towards the end of the cord they blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Intraspinal Vessels. Arteries supply the cord and its mem- branes, and the bodies of the vertebrae. The veins form a remark- able plexus mthin the canal, but this will not be seen unless they have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (fig. 130, a) are derived from the vessels along the sides and front of the spinal colimm, viz., from the vertebral and ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in * Intraspinal arteries in the loins (Museum of University College, London). a. Branch of a lumbar artery. 6. Ascending, and c, descending offset, d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. + Intraspinal veins in the loins, a. Branch to join a lumbar vein, h. Anterior longitudinal vein, one on each side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebrae.