DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 326 Dissection. Articiilur surfaces, and contact. Synovial .sacs, two or three. Inter- osseous ligaments, metacarpal, .md carpal. Dissection of finger- joints. the fore and middle fingers ; but in the ring and little fingers the motion is greater, Avith a slight degree of opposition. Dissection. The articular surfaces of the bones in the carpo-meta- carpal articulation may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the fore finger presents a hollowed articivlar surface, which receives the prominence of the trapezoid bone, and articulates laterally with the trapezium and os magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os The metacarjjal bone of the ring finger touches the imciform bone and the os magnum. And the little finger bone is Metacarpo- phalangeal articula- tions : lateral ligaments anterior ligament ; posterior. Synovial sac. Joint of thumb. Kinds of motion : opposed to the unciform. Synovial sacs. Usually two synovial sacs are uiterposed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz., a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and offsets of the common carpal synovial sac Qj. 324) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the two inner metacarpals vnth the unciform bone. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from another ; and those uniting the adjacent carpal bones may be shown in the same way. Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will be requsite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion aroitnd it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations l^etween the phalanges of the fingers. Union of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 100). In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are united by the following ligaments :— The lateral ligament (a) is the same on both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached above to the lower part of the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacai'pal bone, and below it is inserted into the phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament (b) is a strong and dense band, Avhich is fixed firmly to the phalamx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is grooved for the flexor tendon ; and to its sides the lateral liga- ments are united. On the dorsal aspect of the joint, the capsule is completed by a thin layer of connective tissue which sujaports the synovial mem- brane, and is closely covered by the extensor tendon. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thiunb two sesamoid bones are connected with the anterior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in four opposite directions, together with circumduction, take place in these condyloid joints.