DISSEC'J'JON OF 'I'lIE LEG. 666 use, the foot beiiiu free, and lixed. Flexor longus digitoriini origin ; enters annular ligament; part is su- perficial be- low soleus; use, with foot free, and fixed. Tibialis posticus ; origin ; insertion; muscles and vessels in relation with it: use, with feot free, and fixed ; in standing, in rising up. Action. The foot being unsuiDported, tlie Hexor bends the last phalanx of the great toe, and then extends tlie ankle. The foot resting on the gronnd, the muscle raises the heel ; and it moves back the fibula as the body rises from stooping. The PLEXOR LONGUS DiGiTORUM (flex. perfoians ; fig. 205, e) amcs I'rom tlie inner division of the posterior .surface of the tiljia, extend- ing from the attachment of the soleus to about three inches from the lower extremity ; and from the aj)oneurosis covering the tibialis jjosticus. Its tendon enters a compartment in the annular liga- ment, which is external to the sheath of the tibialis ; and it divides in the sole of the feet into tendons^ for the last phalanges of the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed above, where it is placed be- neath the soleus; but in the lower half it is in contact Avith the fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. Action. The muscle bends the farthest phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, and then extends the ankle. If the toes are in contact with the ground, the flexor helps to raise the heel in walking ; and to move back the tibia in the act of rising from stooping. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS (fig. 205, d) occupies the interval between the bones of the leg, but it crosses over the tibia below to reach the imier side of the foot. The muscle arises from the interosseous membrane, except about one inch below, from an impression along the outer part of the posterior surface of the tibia extending from the external tuberosity to the middle of the bone, from the imier surface of the shaft of the fibula, and slightly from the aponeurosis covering it. In the lower -part of the leg the muscle is directed be- neath the flexor digitoram; and its tendon, entering the inner space in the annular ligament, reaches the iimer side of the foot to be inserted into the navicular and other bones (p. 681). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower part of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper end presents two pointed processes of attach- ment—that to the tibia being the liigher—between Avhich the anterior tibial vessels are dii'ected forwards. Action. Its action on the moveable foot is to depress the fore part and outer side, and carry the toes inwards, producing the move- ment in the tarsal joints known as inversion (p. 704), and to ex- tend the ankle-joint. The toes resting on the ground, it will aid the muscles of the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the body. In standing, the muscle can raise the inner border of the foot with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight of the hodj on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis draws back the bones of the leg, with the soleus.