746 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Dissection of tliem in n fresh bone. Utricle : situation, and form ; not free in cavity; have ainpullfe, which re- ceive the nerves. Saccule has com- munications with utricle and cochlea ; macula and otoliths. perilymijli, and arc tli<;ni.sc,lvcs filled witli a fluid called tlie endohjmph. In them tlie raiiiifipatiuiis of tlie auditory nerve are distributed. Dusection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal bone which has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous in- structions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the inendoranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. The DTRICLE (fig. 240, d), or the common sinus, Ls the larger of the two sacs, and is Fig. 240.^ macula, and otoliths. Semicircular canals: situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, o^jposite the fovea hemiellip- tica in the roof. It is tran.s- versely oval in form, and con- nected with it posteriorly are three looj^ed tubes, which occujiy the semicircular canals. At the fore part of tlie sac is a thickened and more opaque jDart of its wall—iiia^ cula acnstica where the nerves enter; and opposite this, in the interior, is a small mass of calcareous gi-anules or otoliths. The MEMBRAXOUS SEMI- CIRCULAR CANALS (g) are about one-third of the diameter of the osseous tubes, along the convex border of which they lie, being closely attached to the periosteal lining of the bony Avail ; and the remaining space is filled by jDeriljnnph. Each is marked at one end by an ampulla, which is relatively of large size and nearly fills the osseous case. Two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy, so that they communicate with the utricle by five openings. At each ampuUary enlargement there is a transverse projection (crista acustica) into the interior of the tube; and at that spot a branch of the aiiditory nerve enters the wall. The SACCULE (fig. 240, a) is a smaller and rounder cyst than the utricle, in front of which it is placed, in the hollow of the fovea hemispherica. It communicates with the utricle through the ductus endolymphaticus, and is continous below by a short and small passage {canalis reuniens; c) Avith the canal of the cochlea. Like the other sac, it possesses a macula (b) and otoliths where the nerves enter. * Petrous bone partly removed to shew the membranous labyrinth in place (Brescliet). a. Saccule ; b, its macula, r. Ductus reuniens. d. Utricle ; e, its macula. /. j\mpullary enlargement of a semicircular canal, g.