148 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Borders. Kinds of papillae: conical and filiform: fungiform ; circnmval- late. Parts found in tongue. Define septum. membrane and to the different lingual muscles connected witli the hyoid hone and the jaw. In front of the muscles the mucous membrane forms a fold in the middle line, termed the frcenum Kngnce; and on each side an iiTegular ridge—'plica firabriata (better seen in infants), runs fonvards and inwards about midway between the fraenum and the margin of the tongue towards tlie tip. Each border of the tongue is joined opposite the lateral groove above mentioned by the fold of mucous membrane descending from the soft palate, and known as the anterior pillar of the fauces. Behind this fold, the root of the tongue is attached on each side to the wall of the pharynx ; but in front, the margin of the body is free. The free border is thick and rounded ia its hinder part, where it is marked by vertical ridges and fun-ows, and becomes gradually thinner towards the tip. Papilla. On the dorsum of the tongue are the follo^^'ing kinds of papiQse ; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the circumvaUate. The conical and filiform 'papillai are the numerous small projec- tions which cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They taper from the base towards the free extremity, where they are provided with smaller secondary papillae ; and many of them, especially towards the sides of the organ, have theii- epithelial covering produced into long hair-like processes, whence the name filiform is given to them. Towards their limit behind they are arranged in lines parallel to the lateral grooves, and on the sides they form vertical rows. The fungiform papillcB are less numerous but larger than the preceding set, amongst which they are scattered, especially at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project beyond the conical papillae. Their surface is covered with small simple iDapillse. The circumvaUate papillcB are much larger than the foregoing, and are placed at the junction of the middle and posterior thirds of the tongue. Their number varies from seven to twelve. One, larger than the rest, is situate immediately in front of the foramen csecum, and the others are disposed in two rows (one on each side) parallel to the lateral groove, so as to form a figure like a widely- spread letter V. Each papiUa is attached by a constricted stem, which is surrounded by a groove ; its wider end or base projects beyond the surface of the tongue, and is covered with small simple j)apillDe. Around the groove the mucous membrane forms a slightly prominent fold, which is also beset with secondary papilla3. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves separated by a fibrous layer in the median plane. Each half is made up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The tongue is enveloped by mucous membrane; and a special fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching