DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 446 internal tendinous ; forms loops over the coixl, gn'ing rise to cremas- teric fascia: use. On right side reflect cremaster iind internal oblique. Fig. 140.* In left groin replace the parts. inserted by tendon into the front of the pubis, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibi-es descend on the front and sides of the cord, forming loops Avith the convexity down- wards, which reach to and over the testis. The bundles of fibres are united by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, which is named the cremasteric fascia. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides and front of the cord. Action. It elevates the testicle towards the abdomen, and in some cases is under the influence of the will ; but it may be excited to contract invo- luntarily by cold, fear, &c. Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not to make any farther dissection of the abdominal wall; and the layers that have been reflected in the groin should be replaced, until the examination of that region is resumed in connection with hernia. On the right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by the removal of the internal oblique and the cremaster. The last muscle may be reflected from the cord by means of a longitudinal incision. To raise the internal ob- lique, it will be necessary to cut it through firstly near the ribs, secondly along the crest of the ilium and Poupart's ligament, and lastly at the hinder part, so as to connect the first two incisions. Its depth will be indicated by a fatty layer between it and the transversalis, and by a branch of artery between the two muscles near the anterior superior iliac spine (fig. 142, h). In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transver- salis, with which they are often conjoined ; and dissect out, between the two, the intercostal nerves and arteries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) near the * A. Transver.salis muscle, with b, its anterior, and c, its posterior tendon (fascia lumborum). u. Poupart's ligament. 1. Last dorsal nerve with its accompanying artery. 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artery, tt Inter- costal nerves aud arteries.