DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 338 small triangular fold, the vestigial fold of the pericardium (Marsliall), between the inilmonary artery and the upper pulmonary vein : lliis includes the remains of a left superior cava which existed in the foetus. VessL'ls. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the a^a-tti, the internal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. Nerves. Nerves. According to Luschka the pericardium receives ners'es from the phrenic, sympathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is hollow. Form. Size and weight. The heart is a hollow muscular organ by which the blood is propelled through the body. Into it, as the centre of the A-ascular system, veins enter ; and from it the arteries issue. Form. The heart is conical in form, but somcAvhat compressed from before backwards. The anterior surface is convex ; and the posterior or lower is nearly flat. The left border is thick and round; while the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. /S?';.e. The size of the heart varies greatly; and it is usually smaller in the Avoman than in the man. Its average measurements may he said to be about five inches in lenoth, three iuches and a half in width, and two and a half in thickness. Its Aveiglit is generally from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and fi'om eight to ten in the female. Position and direction. The heart lies behind the lower tAVO-thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side of that bone, but more to the left than the right. Its axis is directed Aa^ry obliquely, from behind forAvards and to the left, as Avell as someAvliat doAvuAvards. The base is towards the spine, being opposite the sixth, seventli and eighth dorsal vertebrce, and looks backAvards and upAvards. The apex strikes the Avail of the chest during life in the fifth inter- costal space of the left side, at the junction of the ribs Avitli then- cartilages. The anterior surface looks forAvards and someAA'hat uj)- Avards ; Avhile the posterior surface is nearly horizontal, resting on borders; the diaphragm. The right margin is turned to the front; and the left is placed farther back. In conseqiience of the oblique position of the heart, the right half and the apex are directed toAA^ards the thoracic Avail, though mostly Avith lung intervening; while the left half is undermost and deep in the cavity. Limits (fig. 102). The extent of the heart in relation to the front of the chest may be indicated as foUoAvs :—The upper limit is marked by a line across the sternum from the loAver edge of the second costal cartilage of the left side to the upper edge of the third cartilage of the right side ; and the loAver limit by a line, slightly convex doAvuAvards, from the seA'^erith chondro-stcrnal articulation of the right side to the spot Avhere the apex touches, the latter point being usually about one inch and a half below, and three-quartei-s of an inch to the sternal side of the nipple. On the right side the Situation in the chest. Base; apex ; surfaces; right and left halves. Extent of the heart upwards, downwards, to right,