490 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Coronary vein. Pyloric vein. Splenic vein : tributaries. Portal vein origin; course and relations: branches ; and tribu- taries. Peculiarities of portal Bight and left hejjatic ducts. Cominou hepatic duct. Common bile-duct: length and course; termina- tion : joined by pancreatic. Tlie coronary vein accompanies the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach, and Lending downwards at the cardia, passes to the lower end of the portal vein. The pyloric vein (fig. 150,/) lies with the ijylorie branch of the hepatic artery along the lower part of the small curvature of the stomach, and opens into the portal vein opposite the duodenum. The splenic vein (fig. 150) is of large size, and is formed by the union of jjranches from the spleen. It runs below the artery, and imder cover of the pancreas, to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (b) to form the vena portae. Between its origin and termination it receives branches corre- sponding with the following arteries,—vasa brevia (g), left gastro- epiploic (e), and iJancreatic. The inferior mesentei-ic vein (d) some- times opens into it. The PORTAL VEIN (vena portse ; fig. 150, a) is formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin is jjlaced behind the head of the pancreas, and in front of the inferior vena cava. The vessel is about three inches long, and ascends beneath the first part of the duodenum, and then between the layers of the small omentum, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. While in the small omentum it lies behind the hepatic artery and bile-duct. The right branch is shorter and larger than the left, and ramifies in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe, and entere the left haK of the liver. In its course the portal trunk is joined by the coronary and jiyloric veins from the stomach; and the cystic vein from the gall-bladder enters the right branch. This vein commences by roots in some viscera of the abdomen, like any other vein, but it is deficient in valves ; and it ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate with the systemic veins on some jjarts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Bile-ducts. Two hepatic ducts issue at the transverse fissure of the liver (fig. 158), one from the right and the other from the left lobe, and unite to form the following :— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives at its termination the duct of the gall-bladder, the union of the two giving origin, to the common bile-duct. The common bile-duct (ductus communis choledochus) is about three inches long. It descends almost vertically beneath the u])i>er portion of the duodenum ; then passing between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, it opens into this portion of the intestine at the inner side, and about the middle. "Wliile in the small omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. As it pierces the wall of the intestine it is joined commonly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum sepa- rately.