229 LAMINyE AND LOBES. cerebelli. At tlie bottom of tlie groove is an elongated. maf3s named and the inferior vermiform process (c to e), wliicli corresponds to the fowei-^wonu. central part uniting the hemispheres above. The two vermiform processes constitute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. L^uii^r^ AND Sulci. The superficial part of the cerebellum is Surfaco composed of grey substance, and is marked by concentric lamince or folia, which have their free edges towards the surface, and run in a Clinked direction with the concavity turned forwards. The laminae Between are separated by sulci, which are lined by pia mater, and are of suici.^'^^ variable depth. Only a small number of the laniinse appear on the Many folia surface, for many others are placed on the sides of the larger pro- iiidden. cesses, and are concealed within the deeper sulci. The laminae. Fig. 68.* «specially the smaller ones, are frequently interrupted by the jtmction of neighbouring sulci. On the upper aspect many of the Arrange- laminse pass continuously from one hemisphere to the other, with ^^^^ worm. only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; but those of the imder surface of the two hemispheres are connected by means of the special commissural bodies composing the inferior vermiform process. The deepest sulci of the hemisphere divide the laminee into groups which are known as the lobes of the cerebellum. Lobes of the upper surface. On the upper surface the Upper lobes hemisphere is divided into two lobes by a deep sulcus which arches outwards and forwards from the hinder end of the superior anterior, ^ * Under surface of the cerebellum, the medulla oblongata being cut away m greater part. a. Pons Varolii, b. Medulla oblongata, cut through, c to «. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of—c. Uvula. d. Pyramid e. Taber valvule. Lobes of the under surface. /. Flocculus, r/. Amygdaloid, h, i. Biventral. Between i and k. Slender, h. Posterior. 3. Third nerve attached to the crus cerebri, 5. Fifth nerve.