745 COCHLEAR PASSAGES. mb) reaches from the lower (tympcanic) edge (c) of the Lamina includes / ^ ..►11 bflsiltir rn6in- spiralis to the outer wall of the cochlear tube, where it is hxed by iji.;,,,^ a fibrous band—ligamentiim spirale ('). Its width varies, for near ami spiral the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube ; • but at the apex, where the lamina spiralis is wanting, it constructs the septum altogether. ScALiE OP THE COCHLEA (fig. 238). The tube of the cochlea is Bcaimof divided by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is leai-tube: the scala fympani (s t), and the other scala vestihidi (s v) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by a third canal being cut ofl.' from it by membrane. These passages are j)laced one above another, the scala vestibuli position ; (s v) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above, they commnni- extent; cate through the aperture named helicotrema (/). Below, they end joined differently, as the names exjjress ;—the scala vestibuli opens into^^°^®' the front of the vestibule (fig. 2.36, cj) ; but the scala tynipani is ^^p^^^'^ shut out from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the septum cochleae, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenesti'a rotunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestibular scala extends into they differ the apex of the cochlea; while the tympanic scala is largest near ind^*ize* the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, Avhich begins at an opening close to the lower end of the opening in scala, and ends at the lower border of the petrous portion of the ^^^^^"^ ■ temporal bone : it transmits a small vein from the cochlea. The scalse are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous lining with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it heljis to close "membrane, the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joins the fibrous process in the af[ueduct of the cochlea. The perilymph fills both scalse. tents.""" Caxal of the cochlea. In the nj)per division of the cochlear Cochlear tube a fine membrane (fig. 239,') extends obliquely across from the ^^^^gg^ upper surface of the lamina spiralis, at the inner border of the basilar linibus, to the outer -jvall of the cavity a little above the spiral ^^embraue ligament. This is called the membrane of Eeissner, and separates a and mem- small cavity named the canal or duct of the cochlea (c c) from the scala Relssner • vestibuli (a v). The canal thus formed extends fr(mi apex to base of the cochlea, and contains a fluid—endohjmph. Above, it reaches into joined by the cupola and is closed. Below, it is connected by a very small tube saccule^'" {canalis reuniens; fig. 240, c) with tlie saccule in the vestibule. ' Within the canal of the cochlea, resting on the basilar membrane, is the complicated structure known as the organ of Corti (fig. 239), in contains which the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve end. COTti! ° Membranous Labyrinth (fig. 240). Lodged in the vestibule The mem- are two membranous sacs, the utricle and saccule, from the former fabyrinth of which tubular offsets are continued into the semicircular canals, consists of These, together with the canal of the cochlea and the organ of Corti, Saccule, which have Ijeen referred to above, make uj) the membranous somicirealar lal)yrinth. The sacs and their prolongations are immersed in the cochiokr'"^ caual.