DISSECTION ■ OP THE OEBIT. 42 attached to tiirsus. Relations. Use. Upper rec- tus muscle. Origin. Insertion. Position to othei' parts. Use. Upper obliqiie muscle enters a loop. Insertion. Ilelations. Pulley of the muscle. Use. Dissection. and bends downwards in the upper eyelid to be inserted by a broad tendon into the front of the tai'sal pLate. By one surface the muscle is in contact witli the frontal nerve and the periosteum ; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the middle, a small branch of the thii-d nerve will be seen entering the posterior haK on the under surfiice. Action. The lid is made to glide upwards over the ball by this mixscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the skin above the lid being folded inwards at the same time. If the eyeball is directed down, the movement of the lid is less free, because the conjunctiva is put on the stretch. The SUPEEIOB RECTUS (fig. 10, d) is the upper of four muscles that lie aroimd the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part of the optic foramen, and is coimected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibre^ end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the trans- parent cornea. The xmder surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen; the upper surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 47). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 10, a) is thin and naiTow, and passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop referred to (fig. 11), is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle. and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external recti, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The imlley, or trochlea (fig. 11), is a fibro-cartilaginous ring nearly a quarter of an inch wide, which is attached by fibrous tissue to the dejDression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margins of the prdley on the tendon; and a synovial sheath lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial sheath and the free motion of the tendon, this prolonga- tion may be cut away. For the use of the muscle, see the description of the inferior oblique (p. 49). Dissection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided about the middle and traned backwards (fig. 11), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalmic vessels Avill come into Anew as they cross inwards above the optic nerve: these should be traced