411 EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF CORD. The extent of the spinal cord is from the lower margin of the Extent vanes below, and in the embryo. Length. Inferior termination in the adult. Two swellings on it. I'oriuuen niagniun of the occipital bone to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but Fig. 127. its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches the whole length of the spinal canal ; but it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the posi- tion it has in the adult. Its length is usually from sixteen to eighteen inches. Above, the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and below, it ends in a small taper- ing part (conus medullaris), from which the lilum terminale (fig. 127, d) is continued downwards. The lower end of the conus medullaris is sometimes marked by one or two irregular swellings. The size of the spinal cord is much increased where the nerves of the limbs are attached. There are, therefore, two enlargements on it, viz., cervical and lumbar ; the one in the neck reaches from the first cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other is smaller, and is on a level with the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before back nearly equals the transverse. While the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished from the iVWliWifc—'? posterior by the central fibrous band and the /,Jf\^||f/SIH\\ anterior spinal artery; as well as by the irregular line of the anterior nen^e-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student will require a piece of a fresh cord which has been hardened in spirit; for the cord which is obtained from the spinal canal at thLs period is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface, with the roots of the nerves left on one side, the student will be able to observe the following divisions of the cord. Sulci of the cord (fig. 128). The anterior rmlian fissme occupies the middle line of the front of the cord in t^eTord aJe * Membranes of the spinal cord laid open, to sliow the lower end of the median^ cord with the filum terminale. a. Dura mater, and b, the fibrous band fixing t to the coccyx c. Pointed lower end of the cord (conus medullaris)! a. I'lluin terminale of the cord. ' Anterior surface, how known. Dissection to see con- stituents of cord.