DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 68 is clivulod into three parts. First part, internal to scalenus, is deep. In front, behind, and below it. Veins with the artery. Position of aerves. Second part beneath scalenus. In front, behind, and below. Position of vein; of nerves to the artery. Third part IS super- ficial. Parts cover- ing it; and beneath. and between the scaleni muscles. For the purjwse of describing its numerous connections the vessel is divided into three parts ; the first extending from the stemo-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath the scalenus ; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the outer edge of the first rib. First part Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies deeply in the neck, and ascends somewhat from its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia; the stemo- mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and stemo-thyroid muscles ; and a strong deep process of fascia from the inner border of the scalenus muscle. Behind and below, it rests against the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel; and the apex of the lung separates the artery from the vertebrae and the first and second riljs. Veins. The innominate vein lies below and rather in front of this part of the artery. The internal jugular vein crosses the arterial trunk close to the scalenus ; and underneath this vein, with the same direction, lies the vertebral vein. Much more superficial, and separated from the artery by muscles, is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein. Nerves. In front of the artery lies the pneumo-gastric nerve, near to the internal jugular vein ; and inside this, the lower cardiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Beneath the subclavian artery Avinds the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric; and one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve form loops aroimd the vessel. Second part. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is not so deep as in the first part of its course, and at this spot it rises highest above the cla^dcle. It is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia ; then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid ; and lastly by the anterior scalenus. Behind and below the artery are the pleura and lung. Veins. Below the level of the artery, and separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle, lies the arch of the subclavian vein. Nerves. In front of the scalenus descends the phrenic nen^e. Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the large cervical nerves ; and the trunk formed by the last cendcal and first dorsal nerves is behind the artery. TJiird i^art. Beyond the scalenus the artery traverses the clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (fig. 14), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course : tliis part of the vessel is enclosed in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia, wliich it receives as it passes from between the scaleni. It is comparatively superficial while in the space before mentioned, for it is covered only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia; but near its tei-mination the vessel gets under cover of the clavicle and sub- clavius muscle, and the suprascapular vessels cross in front of it. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib, which is interposed between it and the plem-a ; and the inser- tion of the scalenus medius is behind it.-