638 DISSECTION OP THE BUTTOCK. attach- iiitints; relations; use like medius. Divide smallest gluteus; trace deep vessels. Posterior head of tlie rectus. Origin of ]iyrifoi'mis; insertion; relations in foramen; in buttock. Use with femur hang- ing, and raised ; both limbs on gi'ound, only one. curved lines, extending backwtards as far as the middle of the anterior margin of the gi'eat sfiatic notch. Its tendon is inserted into an imjjression along the fore part of the great trochanter, where it is united inferiorly Avith the gluteus medius : some fibres are attached to the capsule of the hip-joint. One suiface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve ; the other with the hip-bone, the hip-joint, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the gluteus medius ; and the posterior is covered by the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon and the bone. A ction. This muscle agrees in its action with the gluteus medius ; but as it reaches farther backwards, the hinder fibres may also have some influence in rotating out the hanging femur. Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the ilium, and define the tendinous portion of the rectus femoris imder- neatli it, close above the hip-joint. While detaching the gluteus from the parts underneath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be observed and followed as the muscle is removed. The posterior or reflected head of the rectus femoris is a tendon as wide as the little finger, and about two inches long, which is fixed into the impression above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it joins the straight head, which is attached to the anterior inferior iliac spine ; and its lower border is connected with the capsule of the hip-joint. The PYRIFORMIS (fig. 195, b) arises in the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (ja. 588), and leaves that cavity through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Outside the pelvis it ends in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter, between the two smaller glutei. The muscle occupies the greater part of the sacro-sciatic foramen, and divides the vessels and nerves passing through that apertiu-e into two groups :—Above it are the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; and below it the sciatic and imdic vessels and neives, and some other branches of the sacral plexus. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius; and its lower, to the superior gemellus. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gkiteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion ; it rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip-joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obtm-ator and genielli. Action. The pyriformis rotates out the femm- when that bone is in a line with the trunk ; but if the hip-joint is bent it abducts the limb. Both limbs being fixed, the muscles balance the pelvis, and hel]) to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the jiyriformis turns the face to the opposite side.