233 FOURTH VENTRICLE. fibres begiu in the lateral part of tlie lieniisphere, and are directed forwards to tlie pons, of Avliich they form the transverse fibres (p. 199). The inferior 'peduncle (processus ad medullam ; fig. 70, ip) passes luforior downwards to the medulla oblongata, where it is Icnown as the JJfgJi^faf *° xestiforni body. Its fibres begin chiefly in the laminae of the upper sm-face of the hemisphere. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Dissection. One other section (fig. 65) must be made to expose Dissection, the fourth ventricle. The cerebellum still resting on its under siu-face, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes ; and then the structure of the worm, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed on separating the halves of the cerebellum. Structure of the tcorm (fig. 65). The upper and lower vermiform Vermiform processes of the cerebellum are imited in one central piece which fikTotlier connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this con- parts, necting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz., a central white portion and investing laminae. Here the branch- ing appearance of a tree (arbor vitse) is best seen, in consequence of the lamina3 being more divided, and the white central stalk being thinner and more ramified. The FOUKTH VENTRICLE (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space between Fourth the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata "^^^^^^^^ = and pons (fig. 65). It has the form of a lozenge, mth the points placed tipwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high as form and the upper border of the pons ; and the lower, nearly to the level of the lower end of the olivary body. Its greatest breadth is opposite the breadth: lower edge of the pons ; and a transverse line in this situation would divide the hollow into two triangular portions—upper and lower. The lower half has been named calamus scriptorius horn, its resem- calamus blance to a writing pen. seriptorlus. The lateral boundaries are more marked above than below. For Boundaries about half way down the cavity is limited on each side by the °" ^"^^' superior peduncle of the cerebellum (l), which, projecting over it, foi-ms part of the roof; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body, with the clava of the funiculus gracilis (fig. 70, cl) at the inferior extremity. At the lower border of the ifiteral middle peduncle of the cerebellum a lateral process of the cavity extends oiitwards over the surface of the restiform body, being bounded below by a narrow white streak called the ligula (fig. 70, on right side). The roof of the space is formed above by the valve of Vieussens Roof, with the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and by the inferior medullary velum and nodule of the inferior vermiform process ; below by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the medulla oblongata. Between the valve of Vieussens and the inferior medullary velum the ventricle forms an angular recess, the apex of which is directed towards the medullary centre of the worm.