612 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Lymphatics. Femoral artery: extent; course; position to femur and parts around; division into two. Superficial portion : relations to parts around; position of vein and nerves. first between the iliacus and psoas, but afterwards becomes more superficial and divides into brandies. Deep lymphatics accompany the femoral vessels, and are continued into the iliac glands in the abdomen ; they are joined by the super- ficial lymphatics. Femoral artery (fig. 192). This vessel Ls a continuation of the external iliac, and reaches from the lower border of Poupart's liga- ment to the opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. Occupying three- fourths of the length of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation outwards of the limb with the knee-joint half bent, by a line drawn from a point midway between the sym- physis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, to the prominent tuberosity of the inner condyle of the femur. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and is comparatively superficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but lower down it is placed along the inner side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its relations allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial part of the artery (fig. 190, a), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is from three to four inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned. Encased at first in the crural sheath for about two inches, it is covered by the sldn and the superficial fascia, and by the fa-scia lata and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the artery rests on the j)soas muscle; and it is subsequently placed, over the pectineus (e), though at some distance from the muscle in this position of the limb, and separated from it by fat, and the profunda and femoral veins. Its companion vein (7i) is on the inner side and close to it at the pubis, but is placed behind the artery as it leaves the space. The anterior crural nerve lies on the outer side, being distant about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve lies over the artery along the edge of the sartorius. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectineus (^). Unusual Unusual position. A few examples of transference of the main artery of the position. limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In these cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. Branches:— The branches of the artery in Scarpa's space are the superficial epigastric and circvmiflex iliac, two external j^udic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous offsets have been seen (p. 601), with the exception of the folloAving, which lies at firet beneath the fascia lata. The inferior external pudic artery (fig. 190, e) arises separately from, or in common with, the other pudic branch. It courses in- An external pudic.