DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 622 from tlie back of the testicle and the epididymis. As it ascend» along the cord its branches form the spermatic plexus. It joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 531). Lymphatics The lymphaticfi of the testicle ascend on the blood-vessels, and joia the lumbar glands. The oierves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the artery to the testis. Vessels of the vas deferens. A special artery is furnished to the excretory duct from the upper or lower vesical, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses Avith the spermatic artery. Veim from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. and nerves. Vessels of t)ie duct. Section Y. DIAPHRAGM WITH AORTA AND A'ENA CAVA. J)issect vessels and muscles. To see the diaphragm. Define arches. Diaphragm situation and form; origin at the circum- ference : insertion of libres into a central tendon. Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the back, the student should prepare first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it Avill be necessary to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendinou& part, and the strong processes or j^iUars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebree. While cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on ihe surface, and of others in and near the ]3illars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches near the .spine,, which give attachment to the muscu.lar fibres, should be dissected; one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and will be made more evident by separating it from the fascia covering the quadratus. The DIAPHRAGM or midriff (fig. 165, a) forms the vaulted moA^eable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and tendinous in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, it arises by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the ensiform process and the six lower rib- cartilages ; from two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column,—one being placed over the quadratus lumboruni, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, from the lumbar vertebrae by a thick mxxscular piece or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon ; but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted (p. 524).