409 ROOTS OF THE NERVES. small ganglia, one for each bunclle of filaments, which are blended at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or suboccipital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots (fig. 126 A, a) arise from the side ^'^*'^[^"'" of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly—not without in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower sangiion, end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- pierces o„ _ „, ., , T ,. , . • 11 dura mater vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening m, and have and joins a separate sheath of, the dura mater. In their farther course to the ^^"ot beyond trunk of the nerve they are gathered into two bundles (fig. 126 B, a), ganglion. and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally, the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk. Characters of the roots. Besides variations in the relative size of Characters the two roots, the following characters are to be noted:— Union of the fibrils. The fibrils of contiguous anterior roots may Some sets be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots jjin.''"^^ may be connected in a like manner ; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Size of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of the filaments is also greater. Farther, the posterior is proportion- proportion- ally larger in the cervical than in any other group; in the dorsal fn neckf*^' nerves there is but a very slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Size of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the Roots are nerves for the limbs arise than at any other part of the cord ; and nenrTs* of*" they are largest in the nerves to the lower limbs. They are limbs, smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. Direction and length of the roots. As the apertui'es of transmission Oblique in from the spinal canal are not generally opposite the place of origin. course, of the nerves, the roots are for the most part directed obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down; for in the upper cervical nerves the roots are horizontal; but in the lumbar and most so sacral nerves they have a vertical direction aroimd the filum "''"^""'■^y> terminale (fig. 127) ; and the bundle of long nerve-roots descending where they from the end of the spinal cord is named, from its resemblance to a I^nll^'^'^^* norse s tail, the cavda equina. The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliquity. Length in- Thus, the distance between the origin and the place of exit of the ci'oases from roots of the lowest cervical nerve equals the depth of one vertebra; ' ^ in the lowest dorsal nerve it amounts to the depth of two vertebrte ; and in the lumbar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes nearly a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of the roots. Commonly the roots unite as before Union of stated in the intervertebral foramina; and the trunk of the nerve Suiter-' bifurcates at the same spot into anterior and posterior primary vertebral branches (fig. 126, and e). .■ But deviations from this arrangement