AURICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. 349 BehintI tlio aortic opening, between it and tlie uuriculo-ventii- culiir apertures, is a piece of fibro-cartilage, with which the fibrous rings are united. The mmlar fibres of the lieart, although invohmtary, are striped : but tliey difler in their cliaracter from those of the voluntary muscles. The fibres of the auricles are distinct from those of the ventricles. In the ivall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. 106, a, h), and are best marked near the ventricles, though they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. Besides this set, there Fig. 106.* are annular fibres surrounding the appendages of the auricles and the ending-s of the difl'erent veins ; and lastly, a few looped fibres ('.•, d) pass obliquely over the auricle from front to back. Dissection. The auricles having been learnt, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo - ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by re- moving all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pulmonary), and from the anterior and pos- terior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart, let the student note that the anterior surface is to be recognised by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band at the base and another at the apex ; while on the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. To shew the direction of the muscidar bundles in the left ventricle, divide the superficial fibres in front longitudinally near the septum, and transversely about half an inch below the left auriculo-ventricular opening ; and reflect a thin layer of the fibres carefully towards the left side. In the same wuy a second layer is to be reflected ; then a third, and so on, eacli layer that is raised being about as thick as the thin end of the scalpel. It will not be difiicult to demonstrate thus six or seven layers in the wall ; and as each is raised, the fleshy fibres mil be seen to change their direction (fig. 107). On the right side a similar dissection may be made, and a like number of layers may be displayed, but greater care will be necessary * Muscular fibres of the auricles, a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, of the left auricle, c. Looped fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. e. Superior cava. /, Inferior cava. fj. Right, and h, left pulmonary veins. AJinular fibres surround the veins. Fibvo-carti- Musculai- sub.stauco of heart. Fibres of the anricle.s annular, and looped. Detach auricles- Dissection of left ven- tricle. and of riiiht.