ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY. 613 f«nm the common bile-duct. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of the sac structure SHIllC £IS 3fl.C * from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The a,,,! i.s pro- imicous lining isiDrodded with glands, as in the hei^atic and common gjf,^^,^^'"' bile-ducts. On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to Mucous coat form about twelve semilunar projections (lig. 161, c), which are arranged obliquely around the tube, and increase in size towards tilt' gall-bladdei'. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder wliich has been inflated and dried, as in this state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Blood-vessels and nerves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named Artery and cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein ' opens into the right branch of the vena porta}. The n&-ves are nerves and derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The bjmphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the lymphatics on lymphatics, till' under surface of the liver. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The KIDNEY has a characteristic form, resembling an OA'al with Kidney: one side (the inner) somewhat hollowed out, and being compressed ' fi-om before backwards. For the purpose of distinguishing between to distin- the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin be turned fjl^j^j^gjf^'^ inwards, with the ureter or the excretory tube behind tlie other vessels; and let that end of the viscus be directed do\\aiwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour; red colour, and has an even surface. Its average length is about four size; inches ; its breadth two and a half inches ; and its thickness rather nK)re than one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. Its usual weight is about four ounces and weiglit. and a half m the male, and rather less in the female. The left kidney is .slightly heavier than the right. The upper extremity of the kidney is broader than the lower, and Extremi- is surmoimted by the suprarenal body. The lower end is more ' pointed. The position with respect to the spinal column has been bufore detailed (p. 472). On the anterior surface the viscus is rounded, but on the opposite surfaces; s'urface it is more flattened. Tlie outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is borders, niarked by a longitudinal fissure—the hibcm. In the fissure the Contents of vessels are thus placed with respect to one another : —The divisions - of the renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches position, "f the arteiy lie between the two. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. 1 he fissure learls into a hollow named the sinus, in which the vessels sinus, and the duct arc contained before they pierce tlie renal substance. L L