AUDITORY NERVE. 717 The ductus endolymphaticus is a tine tubuhir offset of the mem- J/^'^'^^^^j-^j..^ branous kbyrinth, which occupies the aqueduct of the vestibule, and ends in a dilated l^lind extremity (saccus endolijmphatiais), ami sac; embedded in the dura mater on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temi)oval bone. In the vestibule the duct divides into two small I)ranches, one of which joins the saccule, and the utricle.' other the utricle. For an account of the minute structure of the membranous labyrinth, reference must be made to a work on microscopic anatomy, Fig. 241. Auditory nerve divides into two parts ; upper h:iA ganglion. and supplies utricle, superior and external canals; Nerve of the Labyrinth. A ■sjoecial nerve, the eighth cranial or ■auditory (p. 189), is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the internal auditory meatus with the. facial nerve (p. 145), it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger piece, each of which again 45ubdivides into three branches. At the bottom of the meatus, the upper piece is marked by a gang- lionic swelling—the intumescentia <ian(jlioformis of Scarpa. The wpfer division of the nerve sends its branches to the macula of the utricle (fig. 241, c), to the ampulla of the superior vertical semicircular canal, and to the ampulla of the external semi- •circular canal. From the loicer division of the nerve proceed an offset to the lower gives saccule (a) and a slender branch to the ampulla of the posterior saccule, vertical semicircular canal (h) ; but the greater part is destined for posterior the cochlea. cochlea; Each of the branches of the auditory nerve breaks up into a bundle of filaments, which pass through minute apertures of the branches ; lamina cribrosa, to reach their special part of the membranous labyrinth. The nerves of the semicircular canals enter the ampullae •on their outer flattened side, and end in the crista acustica ; while those of the sacs end in the respective macula. The cochlear nerves traverse the canals of the modiolus, and bend cochleai- •outwards in the passages of the lamina spiralis (fig. 239,-). As they "pirai^'"'*"^ •enter the latter, they join a ganglion {ganglion sjnrale) which occupies ganglion, a winding canal at the junction of the lamina spiralis with the modiolus ; and from this they are continued as fine branches, form- ""'^j^™^'^'' ing a close plexus, to the organ of Corti. Corti! * Distribution of nerves to the membranous labyrinth (Breschet). a. Nerve to the saccule, b. Nerve entering the ampullary enlargement on the posterior semicircular canal, c. Nerve entering the utricle. The nerve to the cochlea is not represented.