555 RELATIONS OF VISCERA IN FEMALE. the upper or free border of tlie broad ligament. One end is con- nected to the uterus close to the fundus, while the other is folded round the ovary. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but ut the opposite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fringed, forming the coiyus Jimbriatum: one of the fimbria) is attached to the upper part of the ovaiy. The OVARY (l) is oval in form, but rather flattened, and very Ovary, variable in size. It forms a projection at the back of the broad ligament, and is invested by the peritoneum except along one (the 4itt<ached) border. In the natural condition it lies nearly vertically against the side wall of the pelvis, and is embraced by the outer ])art of the Fallopian tube : the direction of its free border varies. Its lower end, which is directed somewhat forwards, is attached to and its tlie uterus by a special fibrous band, about one inch and a half in i'3^'"cnt- length, the ligament of the ovary. The VAGINA (fig. 171, i) is the tube by which the uterus commu- Vagina: nicates with the exterior of the body. It is compressed from f^^"* ''"'^ before back ; and its length is about three inches. As it follows lengtii ; the bend of the rectum, it is slightly curved ; and its axis corre- ^xis; sponds below with that of the outlet, but higher up with that of the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the vagina are the base of the bladder, and the relations, urethra ; and behind it is the rectum, but the peritoneum inter- venes between the two for a short distance at the upper end. It is transmitted through an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, whicli sends a sheath along the lower half of the tube ; and the levator ani lies along the side external to tliis. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior wall ; and the lower end, the narrowest part of the canal, is encircled by the .■sphincter vaginae muscle. A large plexus of veins surrounds the A'agina within its sheath. In children, and in the virgin, the ex- ternal aperture is partly closed by the hymen (p. 432). The BLADDER (fig. 171, h) is placed at the fore jsart of the pelvis. Bladder in front of the vagina, and in contact witli the back of the pubic hones. Its position and relations so closely resemble those of the bladder in the male body, as to render iinnece.?sary a separate de- resembles scription of them (p. 548). The chief difi'ercnces in the bladder fSf*'"' of the two sexes are the following :— In the female the bladder is more globular than in the male, and differences the transverse often exceeds the vertical measurement. The base is sexes of less extent, and is in contact with the vagina and the neck of the uterus. The vasa deferentia, vesiculae seminales, and prOstate are absent. The URETER lias a longer course in the female than in the male conrse cf pelvis before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus to its destination. The URETHRA (fig. 171, g) is about one inch and a half long. Urethra: and ^ by its position corresponds to the prostatic and membranous ^"^"S*^' portions of the male passage, although it represents only the upper half of the prostatic urethra. It is situate in front of the vacma position and ° ' conrse :