DISSECTION OF THE EAE. 738 Arteries arc lirauolies of carotids. From inter- nal maxil- lary, middle meningeal, posterior auricular, inferior palatine. internal carotid. Nerves from several sources. Dissection to prepare the nerves ; outside tympanic cavity, and inside cavity. watery lluid ; but in the lower end of tbe Eustachian tulje it in thick and more vascuUiv, and is provided witli numerous glands. Blood-viosskls. The arteries of the tympanum are furnished from the following branches of the external carotid, viz., internal maxil- lary, posterior auricular, and ascending pharyngeal; and some ofisets come from the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The veinx join the pterygoid jilexus, and the large meningeal and pharyngeal branches. Tlie iutenial maxillary artery supplies an anterior tijmjmnic branch (fig. 232, (/;p. 88), which enters the cavity through the Glase- rian fissure, and furnishes a branch to the memln'ane of the tympaimm. Tlie middle meningeal artery also sends fine twigs to the upper part of the tympanum through small apertures in the roof of tlie cavity. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery (p. 80), entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, pos- terior tym^tanic (fig. 232, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the mem- brana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from the in- ferior palatine artery, enter the fore part of the sj^ace by the Eustachian tube. One or two minute branches of the internal carotid artery reach the anterior wall of the tymiDannm from the carotid canal (p. 105). Nerves. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sjTnpathetic nerve ; but the muscles derive their nerves from other sources. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 235). The preparation of the tympanic plexus will require a separate fresh temporal bone, Avhich lias been softened in diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which.the nerves have been hardened afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-phai'vngeal is iir.-^l. to be sought close to the skull; and the fine auricular brancli of tlie pneumo-gastric may be looked for at the same time (p. 107). Sup- posing the nerve to be found, the student should place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it backwards through the A'aginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but withoxit opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to Ijc followed in its canal; and the branches in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pursued ;—two of these, arching forwards, pass to the sympathetic on the carotid artery and to the Eustachian tube ; and two others are directed upwards beneath the tensor tympani muscle. The course of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the prcqiaration used for the muscles.