169 LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE. and. bronchial. The veins have a corresponding termination. Nerves nei'ves. are supplied to the tube from the vagus, mainly through the re- current laryngeal, and from the sympathetic. Section XVIII. PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES AND VERTEBRAL VESSELS. Directions. On the piece of the spinal column which was laid. Muscles in aside after the .separation of the pharynx from it the student is to spTue." learn the deep muscles on the front of the vertebrae. Dissection. The prevertebral muscles will be prepared by ^emo^dng Dissection, the fascia and areolar tissue. They are three in number on each side (fig. 45), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line, and the longest, is the longus colli ; the muscle external to it, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major; and the small muscle close to the skull, which is external to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. The LONaus colli muscle (fig. 45, a) is situate on the bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and is pointed above and below. It consists of three parts—one internal and two external, ^ which differ in the direction of their fibres, but are closely united parts: together. The internal part is vertical, and arises by fleshy and internal or tendinous processes from the bodies of the upper two dorsal and straight, lower two cervical vertebrae. It is inserted by similar slips into the bodies of the second, third and fourth cervical vertebrae. The u^piJer superior external part is inclined obliquely inwards. It arises from the o^^'^i^^*^' anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertel)rae, and is inserted into the side of the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. It is generally joined by a slip from the upper end of the vertical part of the muscle. The loiver external part, also oblique, but in the opposite direc- ami inferior tion to the last, arises in common with the inner part from the oblique, upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. In contact with the anterior surface of the longus colli are the Parts iu pharynx and oesophagus. The inner border is at some distance ^ithTt* from the muscle of the opposite side below, but above oiily the pointed anterior common ligament of the vertebrae separates the two. The outer border is contiguous to the anterior scalenus, to the verteljral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major. The number and attachments of the slips of this muscle are subject to great variation. Action. Both muscles bend forwards the neck ; and the upper Use obli(pie part of one may rotate the head to the same side. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR (fig. 45, b) is external to Rectus