DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 684 Internal saplienous. Deep fascia of the leg: intermus- culai- septa; transverse fibres at the ankle. Take away the fascia, leave liga- inentoas tands, clean nerves and vessels. Anterior annular ligament: its upper and lower piece; sheatlis differ in each. External annular ligament. Internal saphenous nerve (fig.210/). This nerve is continued along the vein of the same name to the middle of the instep, where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass through the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. The DEEP FASCIA of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee- joint, where it gives origin to muscles. On the inner side it is fixed to the anterior border of the tibia ; but externally it is con- tinued round to the back of the leg. A strong intermuscular septiuu is sent in from the deep surface to the anterior border of the fibula, separating the anterior and external muscles ; and another weaker process passes backwards in the upper third of the leg between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. Above, the fascia is connected to the heads of the leg-bones ; but below, it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle-joint it is strengthened by some transverse fibres, and gives rise to the two parts of the anterior annular ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. The fascia is to be removed from the front of the leg and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia is to be left. In separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outer side of the fibula, but without destroying the band (ex- ternal annular ligament) below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot, the dorsal vessels with their nerve are to be displayed, and the tendons of the short and long extensors of the toes are to be traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg, the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed from the dorsum into their intermuscular space, and are then to be cleaned as high as the knee. The ANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT consists of two pieces, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their j)osition,—the former serving to bind the fleshy bellies to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The upper part, above the level of the ankle-joint, is attached laterally to the bones of the leg; it possesses one sheath with synovial membrane for the tibialis anticus. The lower part is situate in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- serted externally by a narrow piece into the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament ; and internally, where it is thin and widened, into the plantar fascia and the inner malle- olus. In this piece of the ligament there are three sheaths;—an inner one for the tibialis anticus ; an outer for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; and an intermediate one for the ex- tensor haUucis. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The EXTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT is placed bclow the fibula, and is attached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to the os calcis. Its lower edge is connected by fibrous tissue