POSTERIOR CERVICAL NERVES. 395 * The two branches of tlie luiuljiir iiurves ;uul vessels are in in the lum- tUe .same line as the dorsal ; but the inner set are difticult to find. legion. * The sacral nerves are placed beneath the multifidus spinte, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 401), * Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The Posterior . . -11 1 brandies of spinal nerves, with a few exceptions m the cervical and sacral groups, spinal divide in the intervertebral foramina into their anterior and posterior nerves, primary branches. The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to l)e learnt. In the neck. The posterior primary di-vdsions of the cervical l'^ the necic nerves are eight in number, and issue between the transverse pro- cesses ; but those of the first and second, which begin on the neural arches of the atlas and axis, appear above those arches. All, except they divide the first, divide into internal and external branches. Except first. The external branches (fig. 121) are A'-ery small, and end in the External splenius, and in the muscles prolonged from the erector spinfe. are small The internal branches (fig. 122) are larger than the external ; they j,^^ej.„^i" are directed towards the sj)inous processes, the lower three passing branches : beneath the semispinalis, and the upi^er four over that muscle. By the side of the spines cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck some give and the head by the nerves that are superficial to the semispinalis : offsets, these cutaneous offsets ascend to the surface through the splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as before seen (p. 382). In their course the nerves supply the siirrounding muscles, \\z., complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinse, and inter- spinales. The cutaneous branches of the second and third nerves reach the head, and require a separate notice. That of the second nerve (fig. 122,"), named great occipital, ap- Second pears beneath the inferior oblique muscle, to which it gives offsets, head!'^^ and is directed upwards through the complexus and trapezius to end on the occiput (p. 8). The branch of the third nerve (fig. 122,^), becoming superficial ^^'^jjgj, near the middle line, gives an offset upwards to the lower part of neck and the occij)ut, internal to the preceding (p. 382). This nerve usually joins the great occipital twice, viz., beneath the complexus and •superficial to the trapezius. The posterior primary division of the suboccipital or first spinal ^"'^^ "e'^^* iterve (fig. 122,') is very short, and appears in the interval between tlie recti and obliqui muscles. In passing from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery. From its extremity branches radiate to the surrounding muscles, ends in viz., one to the iipper part of the complexus, another to the rectus posticus major and minor, and two short branches to the obliquus superior anil inferior: the offset to the last muscle joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally the first nerve f^ives a cutaneous branch to the occiput. * In the dorsal region. The posterior primary divisions of I'o'"-'"'^ the dorsal nerves, twelve in number, appear between the transverse processes, and bifurcate into interaal and external branches.