DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 648 and cuta- neous. Articular branches are five ;— Two supe- rior : external; internal. Two infe- rior : external; internal. And one central artery. Popliteal vein: position to the artery; branches. Popliteal nerves arc two, inner and outer. are furnished to tlie muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris. i. The cutaneous or sv/perficial mral branches descend to the skin of the calf of the leg : they are usually three in number, one in the middle line, and one over each head of the gastrocnemius, c. The superioi' articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles of the femur ; they are directed almost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn roimd the bone to the front of the joint. The external branch (/c) perforates the intermuscular septum, and divides in. the substance of the crureus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circimiflex (of the profunda) ; others descend to the joint and anastomose with the lower external articular artery ; and one offset forms an arch across the front with the anastomotic arterj"-. The internal artery (I), oftentimes very small, winds beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in the vastus in- ternus ; it supplies this and the knee-joint, and commimicates "with the deej) part of the anastomotic artery. d. The inferior articular arteries (fig. 204) lie beneath the gastro- cnemius, but are not on the same level on opposite sides of the limb ; for the inner one descends below the internal tuberosity of the tibia, while the outer one is placed above the head of the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. The external branch (c) supplies the outer side of the knee-joint, anastomosing M'ith the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery ; it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from one of the internal branches. The internal artery (b) ramifies over the front of the internal tuberosity of the tibia, and anastomoses with the upper internal and lower external articular branches, and -with the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery. e. The azygos branch enters the joint through the posterior liga- ment, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and the synovial membrane of the interior. The POPLITEAL VEIN (fig. 199, h) originates in the union of the anterior and posterior tibial venae comites, and has the same extent and relations as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk; between the heads of the gastrocnemius it is superficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it lies to the outer side of, and close to, the artery. It is joined l)y branches corresponding with those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein. The Popliteal Nerves (fig. 198) are the two large trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh (p. 652), and are named internal and external. Each furnishes cutaneous and articular ofi'sets, but only the inner one supplies branches to muscles.