DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 508 impressions for duo- tlenuiii, kidney, colon, and supra- renal body, and three small lobes, viz., quadrate, Spigelian, and caudate. Three iissureSjViz., portal or transverse, longitudi- nal, and one for vena cava. Vessels in the transverse fissure. Hepatic duct. the gall-bladder, and is marked to the right of this by three iiii])ivH- sions ;—the one next to the gall-bladder is the duodenal impresnvnt (fig. 158, di), and corresponds to the second part of the duodenunj ; more externally is the renal ivvpression (r i) for the right kidney ; and farther forwards is the colicimpression (c i), where the liver rests on the transverse colon. On the posterior suriace is the suprarenal impression (sr i) already referred to. The three following 6o-call<-<l lobes also are portions of the surface of the right lobe :— The quadrate lobe (q I) is situate between the gall-bladdei' and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of t})i liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the viscus. It is impressed by the pyloric end of the stomach and the beginning of the duodenum. The Spigelian lobe {S I) is the part between the longitudinal fis.suM and the inferior vena cava, and belongs mainly to the posterior surface of the liver. It forms the bottom of the hollow for the spine, from which it is separated by the diaphragm and the aorta ; and it appears on the under aspect of the organ as a slight projection behind the transverse fissure. The caudate lobe (c I) is a narrow, elongated eminence, which is directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissure, so a> to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. AVhere the fissure terminates this projection subsides in the right lobe. EissuRES. Extending nearly half way across the right part of the liver, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on. the one hand, and the quadrate lobe on the other, is the transverse or portal fissure. It is situate much nearer the back than the front, and contains the portal vein, hepatic artery, and the nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At the left end it is united at a right angle Avith the longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fi^ssure (fig. 159, f) extends from the front totlie back of the liver, between the right and left lobes. In it, anterior to the transverse fissure, lies the remnant of the umbilical vein (c), which is called the round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis); and behind that fissure is a small fibrous cord (d), the remains of the vessel named ductus venosus in the foBtus. The groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of tin- Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the cava (a) be opened, two or three large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in 1 In- transverse fissure, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery and duct, liavt- the following position;—the duct is anterior, the portal vein jaosterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct (fig. 159, e) is formed by two branches,—one from the right, and one from the left lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile-duct (^f).