665 DEEP MUSCLES OF BACK. parts around it. Use with tibia free.; S special function. tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface, as well as into into tibia; the aponeurosis covering them. The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle: on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower articu- lar vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee; and the lower border- corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The tendon of origin will be seen in the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Adicrn. The leg being free, the nmscle bends the knee-joint, and then rotates inwards the tibia. The po- pliteus is used especially in beginning the act of flexing the knee, as it pro- duces the rotation inwards of the tibia (or outwards of the femur) without which that movement cannot take place. The FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS (fleX. long. poUicis pedis ; fig. 205, f) arises below the soleus from the lower two- thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei muscles ; and from the aponeurosis over thc^ tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astra- galus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. Above, the muscle is covered by I \ lM£iiSO&'V' relations; the soleus ; but below, it is super- ficial, and is in contact Avith the fascia. It lies on the fibula and lower end of the tibia, and conceals the I^)eroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. Flexor longus hallucis is attached to fibula: * Deep di.ssection of tlio back of the leg (Ilhistvations of Dissections). Mmcles: A. Popliteus. jt. Outer, and c, inner part of soleus, cut. n. Tibialis posticus. E. Flexor digitorum. h\ Flexor hallucis. a. Peroneus longu.s. H. Peroneus brovis. i Tcndo Achillis. Arteries: a. Popliteal. f). Inferior internal, and r, inferior cxtenial articular, d. Anterior tibial. Posterior tibial, and/, a communicating branch to peroneal, g. Peroneal. /«. Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot. Nerves: 1. Internal [jopliteal. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. .3. Posterior tibial. 4. Cutaneous plantar.