172 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Relation to the nerves. A vein, and nerves are with it. Brandies. Vertebral vein. Orii'in. Course. Ending. Branches. Vertebral plexus of nerves. its coursi! Upwards the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except the lirst, wliich crosses on tlie inner side. The vessel is accompanied hy a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertebral vein begins on the neural arch of the atlas by tin- union of a considerable ofl'set from the intraspinal venous plexuses with other branches proceeding from a network between the muscles in the suboccipital region. It is also joined by the emissary vein leaving the skull through the^posterior condylar foramen when that aperture is present. Accompanying its ai-tery in the neck, the vein descends through the foramina in the transverse 2)rocesses of tl]^ cervical vertebrae, and terminates by emptying itself into the innominate trunk. In this course it is joined by branches from the internal and external spinal veins ; its other tributaries are noticed at j). 70. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical ganglion of the symj^athetic (p. 115). It surrounds the artery, and communicates witb the spinal nerves which it crosses. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VEETEBEiE AND CLAVICLE. Directions Dissection Common ligaments vertebra} are described elsewhere Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the ligaments coimecting the cervical vertebrae to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical from the first dorsal vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nen^es, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebrae. By sawing through, the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cer^dcal vertebrae °^ are similar to those uniting the vertebrae in other parts of the spine, viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament, bands between i the laminae and spines, capsular ligaments lined by synovial mem- brane for the articular processes, and an intervertebral disc between, the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the doi«al or lumbar portion of the si^ine, where they are more strongly developed ; their preparation and description will be found at the end of the thorax, with the description of the ligaments of the .spine (p. 374). Should the student examine them in the neck to see their dill'erence in this region, he should leave uncut the neural