74 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Its offsets aro super- licial; and deep, ■which are: Phrenic nerve, Nerves to join descen- dens noni. Branches to recti. Branches to other nerves. Branches to nmscles. Branches joining spinal ac- cessory. Common carotid artery. Origin. CouTBe. The Iranclies are superficial and deep. Those of the superficial set are again subdivided into ascending and descending, and have been described Avith the posterior triangular space of the neck (p. 56). The ascending branches may be now seen to spring from the union of the second and third nerves; and the descending, to take origin from the loop between the tliird and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remains to be examined: they are muscular and communicating, and may be arranged in an internal and an external series. Internal seeies. The phrenic or muscular nerve of the dia- phragm (lig. 16) is derived from the fourth, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus; and it may be joined by a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior scalenus from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in. front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the sub- clavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an oflPset of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve crosses over the first part of the sub- clavian artery. The branches communicating with the descendens noni are two in number. One arises from the second, and the other from the third cervical nerve ; they are directed inwards over or under the internal jugular vein to join the descending muscular branch (descendens noni) of the hypoglossal nerve in. front of the common carotid artery. Muscular branches are furnished to the anterior recti muscles ; they arise from the loop between the first two nerves, and from the trunks of the other nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. Some connecting branches pass from the loop between the first two nerves to the vagus, hypoglossal and sympathetic nerves near the skull : these will be afterwards seen. ExTEKNAL SERIES. Muscular branches are supplied from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoid; from the third and fourth nerves to the levator anguU scapulse and middle scalenus ; and from the loop between the same nerves to the trapezius. Connecting branches with the spinal accessory nerve exist in three places. First, in the stemo-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with the branches distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the chief vessel for the supply of blood to the neck and head (fig. 16, °). The origin of the vessel diff'ers on the two sides, being at the lower part of the neck on the right side, and in the thorax on the left side. The right vessel commences opposite the sterno-clavicular articu- lation at the bifurcation of the innominate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into external and internal carotids. The course of the artery is along the side of the