TRACHEA AND CESOPHAGUS. 119 the 6ul)claviau3 (inferior thyroid) pierce the deep surface of the inforioi-, mafs. Occasionally there is a third branch (art. thyroidea ima) which ^j'^'lj^^^j'^'^"^; arises from the innominate artery in the thorax, and ascending in tuyroicr^"'' front of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The veins are large and numerous ; they are superior, middle, Veins, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 76). The inferior thyroid veins issue from the inferior, lower part of the thyroid body, and descend on the trachea, forming J'iexus on a plexus on that tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles ; they trachea, enter finally the imiominate veins. The TRACHEA, or windpipe, is continued from the larynx to the Trdciiea thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- lies in neck monly from the lower part of the sixth cervical to the lower border ^'^'^ of the foiu'th dorsal vertebra, measimng about four inches and a Size. haK in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front and sides of the ti-achea are rounded in consequence of the existence of firm cartilaginous bands in those parts of the wall; but at the posterior Vovnu aspect the cartilages are absent, and the wall is flat and mem- branous. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has the Cervical folloAving relative position to the surrounding parts. Covering it in amongst; front are the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, with the deep muscles cervical fascia: beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On and vessels, each side are the conunon carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structm-e of the trachea is described in Section XVII. The (ESOPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to the CEsoplmgus stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the lower part °gp^^!|^^ of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal thorax, vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax. Its length is about nine inches. Length. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax Position in where it projects to the left side of the airtube, and touches the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus are the aiid rela- longi colli muscles. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greater, in consequence of the projection of the oesophagus towards that side. The structure of the oesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Directions. The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo- Muscles and hyoid muscles, with the hypoglossal nerve (p. 76). Afterwards he Sior'' may take the trunk of the external carotid, with the following triangle, branches,—superior tliyroid, facial, occipital, posterior aiu-icular, and su])erficial temporal (pp. 77 to 81). The dissector is not to examine now the pterygo-maxillary or sub- Regions t.. maxillary regions on the left side, because such a proceeding would interferf with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the