103 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. bone remain to be dissected. The terminal branches of the carotid are examined Avith the brain. Dissection. For tlie display of the cervical part of the artery Dissection (fig. 26) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching theueck;'" the styloid process at the root, and throwing it forwards with its muscles, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them ; and this is to be taken aAvay carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed forwards over the artery, seek the ^^Q^^gg'^."''^ glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches near the skull, and the small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset, crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves ; and crossing backwards, over or imder the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the vessels the loop of the first and second cervical nerves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending pharyn- geal artery will be met with. To open the carotid canal iii the temporal bone, and to follow in the tem- the contained artery into the craniimi, make a cut along the side of the skull in the following mamier:—the saw being placed behind the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the wing of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrmnent be directed through, the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forcej)s. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches Nerves on it. of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic mU. be found on it; and in a fresh part two small filaments may be recognised with care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the Vidian nerve, at the front of th.e canal. On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may Tyinpanuui obtain a view of the outer part of the tympamun with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. The interned carotid artertj (fig. 26, d) springs from the bifurcation internal of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of the thjToid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the enters the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the lirain. This winding course of the artery may be divided its course is into three portions—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, "'"^^ and a third in the cranium.