600 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Arteries ol' the intes- tine ; cuts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the inte.stiiie where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads through the whole gut ; l>ut opposite the solitary glands, and the patches ol" Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the in- testine may be examined when it is dry. Vessels of the intestine. The arteries are derived from the intestinal Fig. 155.* vems; absorbents and nerves Two coats in tlie bile- duct ; glands. branches of the superior mesenteric trunk (p. 479), and enter the wall of the intestine at the attached border. They run at first beneath the serous coat, round the side of the bowel, and give off numerous ramifications, which anastomose freely together, and per- forate the muscular coat, supplying branches to its substance. Finally, they break up into very minute twigs in the submucous layer, before entering the mucous coat. The veins have their tisual resemblance to the companion arteries. The absorbents (lacteals) leave the intestine with the vessels and pass to the mesenteric glands (p. 481). Nerves of the small intestine come from the upper mesenteric plexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, form plexuses with interspersed ganglia. Structure of the common bile-duct. The bile-duct consists of an external, strong fibrous layer, and of an internal, mucous coat. On the surface of the inner membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous glands, which are embedded in the fibrous coat ; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. LARGE INTESTINE. Extent of The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between the gut: the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division, and its attachment by peritoneimi to the abdominal wall, have been de- scribed (p. 469). * A. A piece of raucous membrane enlarged, with its yilli and tubules. Part of a patch of Pcyer's gland is also represented with the follicles (a), each having a ring of tubes at the circumference. B. A " solitary gland " of the small intestine, also enlarged, covered by villi (Boehm).