DISSECTION Of THE THIGH. 624 is inserted into tibia. Position to otlier nniscles. Use on knee- joint and femur; on pelvis. Pectineus: origin from pubis; inserted into femur; relations of s\irfaces: and borders. Use on femur free and fixed. Adductor longiis ex- tends from pelvis to femur; relations to muscles and vessels. Use on femur, pubic arch. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about one-third of an inch wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close to the sartorius. The muscle is superficial throughout. For two-thirds of tlie thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as to have its borders directed forwards and backwards ; and in the lower third, it intervenes between the sartorius and semimemljranosus muscles, and helps to form the inner boundary of the popliteal space. At its insertion the tendon is nearer the knee than that of the semitendinosus, though at the same depth from the surface, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament ; from the tendon an expansion is continued to the fascia of the leg, like the sartorius. A bursa separates the tendon from the ligament, and projects above it to the sartorius. Action. It bends the knee-joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating in that bone, and then brings the moveable femur towards the middle line with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground, the gracUis will aid in propping the pelAds on the limb. The PECTINEUS (fig. 191, f) is the highest of the muscles directed from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the surface in front of that line ; and it is inserted by a thin tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small tro- chanter, and into the upper part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia lata ; and the femoral vessels lie over its lower part : the opposite surface touches the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the superficial portion of the obturator nerve. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the adductor longus ; and the internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the psoas. Action. It adducts the limb and bends the hip-joint. When the femur is fixed it can support the pelvis in standing; or it can draw forwards the pelvis in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS lies below the pectineus (fig. 191, g), and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the front of the pubis in the angle between the crest and the symphysis ; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, and forms part of Scarpa's triangular space. Its anterior surface is covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sartorius : the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on the superficial part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. The tendon of insertion is closely united to the adductor magnus and vastus intemus. Action. With the femur moveable, it will flex the hip-joint, and with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards the limb, so