DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 144 of oliorda 1 yinpani; and other ■branches. Facial nerve winds throngli temporal bone, is marked by swelling which receives twigs. Branches joining nerve to auditory, to the meatus aiulitoriiis internuB. The surrounding bone is to bt removed from the enhirgement, so as to allow of the petrosal nerves being traced from it; and the internal meatus is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that canal. The course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the facial) across the tympanum will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nerve may be also followed to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone are very minute, and are not to be seen except on a fresh piece of the skull which has been softened in Fig. 35.* acid. The student may, therefore, omit the para- grapLs marked with an a.ste- risk, until he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. The facial nerve (fig. 35,^) traverses the internal auditory meatus, and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted through the tem- poral bone to the stylo- mastoid foramen and the face (p. 36). In its serpentine course through the bone, the nerve is first directed out- wards to the inner wall of the tympanum; at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a ganglionic swelling—geniculate ganglion, with which several small nerves are united. From this swelling the ner^-^e is continued at first backwards and then do-miwards through the arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serv'e chiefly to connect it with other nerves; btit one supplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. * Connecting branches unite the facial with the auditory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, with Meckel's ganglion, and -with the lin glial branch of the inferior maxillary nerA'^e. * Union loith the auditory nerve. In the bottom of the meatus the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. * Facial nerve in the temporal bone. 1. Facial nerve. 2. Large superficial petrosal. 3. Small superiicial petrosal from Jacobson's nerve. 4. External superficial petrosal. 5. Chorda tympani of the facial.