DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 60 ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE, Anterior triangular space. Dissection of anterior triangle. Trace arteries. Seek longi- tudinal and trans- verse nerves. Spinal accessory. Laryngeal nerves. Clean gland seek nerve to mylo- hyoid. Boundaries, This space (fig. 15) contains the carotid vessels and their branches, mth many nerves ; and it corresponds with the hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the stemo-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its contents, take away the deep fascia of the neck and the subjacent fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. Fii-et clean the surface of the muscles below the hyoid bone, leaving untouched the aaiterior jugular vein. The trunks into which the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), the branches of which are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath from the vessels, as these appear from beneath the miiscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve on the surface of the artery. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the sympathetic nerve. Clean the digastric and stjdo-hyoid muscles, which cross the space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, and beneath them look for several nerves. Thus, crossing the carotid arteries just below the digastric is the hypoglossal nerve, wliich gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the arterj", and another smaller one to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Under cover of the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pharyngeal nei've and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from beneath the same muscles to the stemo-mastoid is the spinal accessory nen^e. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will iind the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the larj'^nx, with the descending part of the superior thyi'oid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process has been already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissec- tion of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the stemo-mastoid muscle Q) ; and in front, the boimdary is formed by a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, are the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platsyma, the deep fascia, and the ramifi- cations of the facial and superficial cervical neiTCS, together with the anterior jugular vein.