477 PERITONEAL FOLDS ON INTESTINE. Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon and raeso-colon, the pancreas, the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the diaphragm. To the right it extends as far as the aud extent. inner border of the duodenum (second part), and to the left as far as the spleen. Between the duodenum and the liver it opens into the general cavity or large bag by the foramen of Winslow. The foramen of Winslow is bounded in front by the right portion BouiidarieK of tlie small omentum, containing the hepatic vessels ; below are of winslow. the same vessels and the first part of the duodenum ; above is the caudate lobe of the liver ; and behind, the inferior vena cava. The gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 146, gs om) reaches from the ^p^jg*^'?' back of the stomach to the front of the spleen, and is continued below omentum, into the great omentum. Between its layers are the gastric branches of the splenic vessels. Folds of the large intestine. The disposition of the peritoneum round the several portions of the colon has been explained in giv- large t, ing their relations (p. 469). The following processes pass between mtestme: the large intestine and the abdominal wall :— The transvei-se mesa-colon (fig. 145, m c) extends from the lower ^^f"''^^^'"!?^ \ 1 iicri meso-colon ; border of the pancreas to the transverse colon, to the leit oi the spot where the latter crosses the duodenum, and contains the middle coUc vessels. In the adult it is formed by a continuation of the omental layers, but in the foetus it was a distinct process of peri- toneum (p. 473). The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold—pleura-colic or costo-colic, fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a A\T.de end to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, it passes transversely inwards to the colon, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, ^l^^^g^ion • which attaches the loop of the sigmoid flexure to the brim of the pelvis : it contains the sigmoid vessels. The meso-rectum contains the superior haemorrhoidal vessels, and and meso- attaches the upper part of the rectum to the front of the sacrum. In some bodies the ascending and descending colon are surrounded sometimes by peritoneum, which meets behind the gut and forms a fold—the ing or ascending or descending meso-colon, between it and the abdominal wall, m'e^s'o colon The caecum may also be provided with a similar fold (yneso-ccecum) or meso- attaching it to the right iliac fossa (p. 469). Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of Appendices the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon; they are the ^'"i^^"^'^'*^- appendices epiplo'icce, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped Peritoneal by the peritoneum after the same manner throughout. For whQe gmlairintes- the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one process (mesentery), the duodenum has special relations with the serous membrane. Serom covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum has peritoneal relations like those of the stomach, but its posterior num. or left surface is only covered for a short distance by the serous