629 ADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, detach a few of the upper tibi-es to examine the obturator externus. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS (tig. 193, k) is triangular in form, with Adductor its base directed upwards, one side being attached to the femur, and • the other free at the inner side of the thigh. The muscle arises from the conjoined rami of the pubis and origin i,s ischiimi along their inner margin, and from the lower impression on the ischial tuberosity. The anterior fibres diverge from their (ibios origin, being horizontal above but more oblit|ue below, and are their inscr- inserted (from above down) into the back of the femur close inside tion, the "luteal ridge, into the linea aspera, and into the internal supra- soine l)eing > lioi'izoiitcil condylar line for about an inch. The posterior fibres, from the ischial tuberosity, are vertical in direction, and end at the lower others third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner con- ^ ^ > dyle of the femur, surrounding the adductor tubercle, and is con- nected by a fibrous expansion to the lower part of the internal supracondylar line. The muscle consists of two parts, which difler in their characters, and form The anterior, thin and fleshy, forms a septum between the other ad- ^^''^ ductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the posterior piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the obturator nerve and the pro- Relations of funda vessels. The posterior surface touches the hamstring muscles " ' and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are and borders, the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with the trans- verse branch of the internal circumflex vessels ; and along the inner border lie the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, par- ticularly the adductor longus, and in its lower part with the vastus intemus. Near the bone it is pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is a powerful adductor ; and the part arising Use on from the tuberosity is also an extensor of the hip. In standing, the ' . Ill stsudiii^" latter part of the muscle, acting from tlie femur, has an important .^^ ^yaii^i^,,''' influence in steadying the hip-joint; and in walking, the great and other adductors co-ojjerate with the gluteal muscles externally to support the pelvis on the fixed limb. The opening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral Opening for vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous at the anterior, -b^jt ^''^ vessels: fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the junction of the upper three-fourtlis with the lowest fourth of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus intemus ; and on the inside by the tendon of boundaries, the adductor magoius, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. The PSOAS and iliacus (fig. 193) arise separately in the abdomen Psoas and (p. .531), but are united in the thigh, the conjoined portion of the thc™iigh- muscles lying beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas (p) is iti- insertion " 5erfgr/by tendon into the small trochanter of the femur; and the'"*"'"'"""'''