DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 438 posterior The posterior branches are small, and are directed back U> tlie integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle, bnnches "^^^ anterior branches are continued forwards nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle, and increasing in size fi-om above down, sui)ply the integuments on the side of the belly : tliey furnish offsets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. Last dorsal The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is larger tliau, and does not divide like the others. After piercing tlie fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the sur- face of the gluteal region (p. 631). jVnterior The ANTERIOR CUTANEOUS NERVES of the abdomen pierce the neJves oT sheath of the rectus : in the integuments they bend outwarchs to- intercostal, wards the lateral cu.taneous nerves. The number and the situation of these small nerves are very uncertain. Tiio-liypo- The iLio-HYPOGASTRIC NERVE is distributed by two pieces : o'.ie funibar° passes over the crest of the ilium (iliac branch) ; the other ramifies plexus: on the lower part of the abdomen (hypogastric branch) :— iliac branch, (a) The iliac branch lies close to the crest of the hip-bone near the last dorsal nerve, and enters the fat of the gluteal region (p. 632). hypogastric (b) The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the exter- branch. -j^g^ oblique muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed to the skin of the lower part of the abdomen, ilio-iuguinal The ILIO-INGUINAL NERVE becomes cutaneous through the exter- plexus?^ ^'^^ nal abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and upper and inner part of the thigh. Vessels with CuTANEOUS VESSELS. Cutaneous vessels run with both sets of nerves, nerves on the abdomen ;—with the lateral cutaneous nei-ves are branches from the intercostal arteries; and with the anterior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, ejiigastric, and circumflex iliac. botli lateral The LATERAL CUTANEOUS ARTERIES have the same distribution iU? the nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief ofl'sets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle, anil anterior The ANTERIOR CUTANEOUS ARTERIES are irregular in number cutaneous. ^^^^ jj^ position, like the nerves. After piercing the slieatli of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves towards the other set of branches. From Branches op the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets .art'ery'three ^^^^^^ from the thigh between the layers of the superficial fascia, 'brandies; and ramify in the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of the abdomen. Tlie beginning of these ve.ssels aj^pears in the dis- section of the thigh, extenial The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic pudic, cQj.^^ -which it gives offsets, and ends in the integmneuts of the under part of the penis, superflciftl The sxhperficial epigastric branch ascends over Pouj)art's ligament, epigastric