21 MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. the edge of the nostril. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. On the side of the nose the skin is closely united to the subjacent una irom parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the mouth is«"ioofno«« the orbicular muscle of the lips, and from this many fleshy slips extend both upwards and downwards, but they are all marked so ^0^^ distinctly as to escape injury, with the exception of the small risorius muscle which goes from the corner of the mouth towards mouth, the ramus of the lower jaw. Wliile removing the fat from the muscles, each fleshy slip may be tightened with hooks. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as Facial the muscles are cleaned; but the nerves may be disregarded on this vessels, side. In front of the ear is the parotid gland, the duct of which is to and parotid be preserved ; tliis is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and gland, pierces the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face (fig. 6). The superficial muscles of the in the fac(s face are disposed in three groups : one of the nose, another of the fonu three'* eyelids and eyebrow, and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One groups, of the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, is partly displayed at the hinder part of the face, covering the ramus of the lower jaw. Muscles of the Nose (fig. 5), These muscles are the following : Muscles of pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, dilatator naris, and depressor alaj nasi. The PYRAMIDALIS NASI (fig. 5,^) is a small fleshy slip that covers Pyramidalis the nasal bone, and appears to be a coiitmuation of the innermost part of the frontalis muscle. Its fibres are attached above to the skin of the forehead; below, they end m the aponeurosis of the compressor muscles over the cartilaginous part of the nose. Its inner border meets the muscle of the opposite side. Action. This muscle draws down the skin of the centre of the Use. forehead, and produces transverse wrinkles at the root of the nose. Compressor naris. This muscle (fig. 5,^) is not well seen till Compressor after the examination of the following one, by which it is partly concealed. Triangular in shape, it arises by its apex from the upper maxillary bone near the anterior nasal aperture. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and is continued into the opposite muscle. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the Use. nose. The levator labii superioris aLjEque nasi (fig. 5,^) is placed Coimnon by the side of the nose, and arises from the nasal process of the of^wtng'^of upper maxillary bone, in front of the attachment of the orbicularis. The fibres pass downwards, and the most internal are attached by a narrow slip to the wing of the nose, while the rest are blended with the orbicularis oris. Near its origin tlie muscle is partly concealed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip.