297 ULNAR AETERY IN PALM. flexor tendons are retained in place against the phalanges by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle ■ of the first and second varies in phalanges the sheath is formed by a strong fibrons band (vaginal ti"°l"^ess, li(jament; e and /) which is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered, and oblique fibres. If the sheath be opened it will be seen to be lias a syno- lined by a synovial membrane, which forms long and slender ^ ''^ vascular folds {vincida vasculosa) between the tendons and the bones. Dissection. The pabnar fascia, and the thinner parts of the Dissection, digital sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery, and the median and ulnar nerves become apj^arent. Paljiar part of the ulnar artery (fig. 87). In the palm RuperHciai of the hand the ulnar artery is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c), and the branch to the radial side of the forefinger (/). The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the sioioerficial palmar arch (d). Its position in convexity is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the ^^^^'^' palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand from the cleft of the thmnb. The arch is comj)aratively superficial, being covered for the most relations. ' part only by the integuments and the palmar fascia; but at the hmer border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the nlnar and median nerves. Vense comites lie on its sides. Branches. From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital Brandies: arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small deep branch arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The deep or communicating hranch (profunda ; fig. 88, b) passes to join the backwards with the deep part of the nlnar nerve, between the ^^'^^^ ^^''^^^' abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate •with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery (p. 304). ^ h. The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply both four digital sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. ^''''"'^^'^^' The branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger is im- divided; but the others, lying over the three iimer interosseous spaces, bifurcate below to supply the contiguous sides of the corre- sponding digits. In the palm these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, wliich they sometimes pierce. Near the roots of the fingers they receive communicating branches these join from off-sets of the deep arch ; but the digital artery of the inner side £p ai°ch*-'' of the little finger has its communicating branch about the middle of the palm. From the point of bifurcation the arteries extend along the sides termination ot the fingers ; and over the last phalanx the vessels of opposite ,TnS. sides unite m an arch, from the convexity of which offsets proceed " ' to supply the ball of the finger. Branches are furnished to the