DISSECTION OF THE TIIOKAX. 870 attacli- jnonts; irrognlnri- ties; ftiKl use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of tlie rib; relations. Outer layer extends back to tuberosity of the rib. Use. Trace nei-ves. Eleven intercostal nerves. Upper and lower ones differ. Last dorsal nerve. Course of upper six, and branches. Exceptions in first two. First ner\'e ends mostly in brachial plexus. from the inner surface of one rib, and are attaclied to tlie like surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in numher, hut there may Ije ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upjicr and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. The subcostals draw together, and depress the ribs, thus acting as expiratory muscles. Intercostal muscles. The anterior part of these muscles has been described (p. 257) ; and the posterior jmrt may be now examined from the inner side. The inner rmiscle begins at the sternum, and reaches Tjack to the angles of the ribs, or somewhat farther in the upper spaces. Where the fibres cease, a thin fascia (posterior intercostal aponeurosis) is continued iuM'ards over the outer muscle. The inner surface is lined by the joleui'a, and the opposite surface is in contact •ndth the intercostal nerve and vessels. External muscle. When the fascia and the subcostal muscles have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen between the l^osterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres cross those of the inner intercostal layer. While this muscle extends backwards to the tuberosity of the rib, it is generally absent in front between the rib-cartilages (p. 258). Action. The use of the intercostal muscles in respiration is given on p. 258. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and artery traced o\it- Avards. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES, eleven in number, are anterior primaiy brauches of dorsal nerves ; and they jiass from the intervertebral foramina into the intercostal spaces without forming a plexus. Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined to the s}Tnpa- thetic by two communicating filaments (p. 368). The upper six are confined to the wall of the thorax; but the loM'er five are prolonged into the abdominal Avail, where the ribs cease in front. The anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve lies below the last rib, and is seen in the dissection of the abdomen. Upper six nerves. At first the nerA^es lie betAveen the pleiu-a and the external intercostal muscle with an artery and vein ; but they soon enter betAveen the intercostal muscles, and extend forAvards to the side of the sternum (p. 260). In their coxu-se they supply branches to the muscles of the thoracic Avail, viz., the subcostals, intercostals, and triangularis sterni, as AA^ell as to the levatores costarum and serrati muscles of the back, and cutaneous oft'sets to the siu-face, Avhich are described in the dissection of the upper limb (p. 244). There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the arrangement above sj^ecified. The first nerve (fig. 74) ascends in front of the neck of the first rib, and enters the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it sujii^lies to the first intercostal space a branch, Avhich furnishes