ERECTOll SriNiE. 391 simus dorsi); single at first where it is uniled with the fibres of the longissiinusj it is divided afterwards, like tlie si)]enius, into a cranial part (trachelo-niastoid) and a cervical part (transversalis colli). * The serratus inferior is to be detached from the spines and ^^.^'^^0,"'" thrown outwards, Avhen fine ner^'es will be found entering it like iTpin.,, a,„i those to the upper muscle. The superficial layer of the fascia itedivisions. lumborum is also to be removed, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned from the surlace of the large mass of the erector spinse which now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is an inter- muscular interval, which divides the erector spinas into an outer piece (ilio-costalis), and an inner (longissimus dorsi). By sinking iijo^^.^ _ the knife into this interval the sacro-lumljalis may be tiu'ned out- ° ^ ^' wards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the ribs : a muscular slip (cervicalis its offset to ascendens) is prolonged from this to the neck. * In preparing the ilio-costalis muscle, the external branches of the Vessels and ^ ^ °. . . . . -T, nerves, dorsal nerves with their accompanymg arteries will appear. * The attachments of the longissimus dorsi are then to be traced Longissi- iiius clOrsi I out. Externally it has thin muscular slips of insertion into about the lower nine ribs, and thicker processes passing to the transverse oi^>ter processes of the lumbar vetebrse ; the latter may be shown by rais- ing the outer border of the erector, and clearing away the fat between it and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum. Internally the longissimus is inserted into the transverse processes of the dorsal, and inner and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae by rounded "isertions ; tendons; and to see these it will be necessary to detach a thin tendinous and muscular portion of the erector (spinalis dorsi) from spinalis the inner side of the longissimus, and to divide longitudinally the ' part of the thick aponeurosis springing from the lumbar sjjines, so as to separate the erector from the subjacent multifidus spinse. offsets to the From the longissimus, as from the ilio-costalis, a fleshy piece (trans- versalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is continued into the neck. * Between the longissimus and the multifidus spinse are the in- Vessels and temal branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, with ofi'sets of the intercostal and lumbar vessels. Erector SpinjE. This is the muscular mass on the side of the Erector spine, extending from the lower part of the sacrum to the head. It g|J|gj* is single and. pointed below, attains its greatest size in the loins, and below; on the thorax becomes divided into secondary portions to which special names are given. Its prolongations to the neck and head divided are very slender. On its posterior surface, in the lumbar and sacral ' regions, is a strong flat tendon of origin, from which most of the tei^'ion*:''^' fleshy fibres .spring. The muscle arises internally from the lower two or three dorsal, and all the lumbar and sacral spines ; ex- origin, temally from the posterior fifth of the iliac crest at the inner aspect; and inferiorly from the lower part of the back of the sacrum. Below the last rib it divides into the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi; and in the thoracic region the spinalis dorsi is given off from the inner side of the latter part. * The luo-cosTALib or sacro-lumbalis is derived from the outer nio- costalis :