129 MUSCLES OF PALATE. and palato-plicoiyngeus, which act as depressors, and a small median azygos mxiscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 30, A J 31,^) is a tliick roundish Elevator muscle which is partly situate outside the pharjmx. It arises from arise's^ the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone outside n-i -TO IP ill IT pnarynx, close m front of the carotid foramen, and from the lower border of the adjacent cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. Enter- and is lost ing the phar}Tix above the superior constrictor, the fibres of the ^' muscle spread out in the soft palate, Avhere they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side. The belly of the muscle rests against the lower border of the Relations. Eustachian tube ; and the expanded part is embraced by two layers of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus (■*). Action. It raises the soft palate from the tongue, so as to Fig. 31. enlarge the fauces; and by bringing the hinder part of the velum into contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx, it can shut off the upper part of that cavity, as in vocalization, when the air is prevented from passing through the nose. The TENSOR or circumplexus palati (fig. 30, b ; 31,^) is a thin Tensor .flattened muscle, lying immediately behind the internal pterygoid ''^"^^^^ plate. About an inch wide at its origin, it is attached to the arises scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the phlrynx, outer side of the Eustachian tube, and to the spinous process of the sphenoid. The fleshy fibres end below in a tendon, which turns round the hamular process, and is inserted into a ridge close inserted into to the posterior border of the hard palate, and blends inferiorly of soft"""''^ with the aponeurosis of the velum. palate. The fleshy part of the tensor palati is placed between the internal Relations, pterygoid muscle externally and the Eustachian tube and levator * 1. Azygos uvtiliE. 2. Tensor palati. 3. Levator palati. 4. Palato- pharyngeus—upper end. 5. External pterygoid. K