67 BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. tributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 8). ' Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the hack ot the ^''Thegi-eat aHricnlarne^'ve (hg. 2, ') is derived from the second J^^at aun- and third cervical nerves. Perforating tlie deep fascni at the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid. muscle, the nerve is directed upwards beneath the platysma towards the lobule of the ear, and t uds in the following branches :— i v Tlie facial branches are sent forwards to the integuments over the supplies parotid, and a few slender lilaments pass into the gland to join the I'cicicil nerve. ' The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly auricular, distributed on its cranial aspect, but one or more reach the lower l>art of the outer surface. On the ear they communicate with branches furnished from the facial and pneumo-gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the sldh over the ^';d^.^fgj°icl mastoid process, where it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 36). The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 2, ") arises from the cervical Superficial plexus in common with the preceding, and turns forwards round ugrve. the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space (seep. 59). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. The DESCENDING SET of branches (fig. 2) are derived from the N™^that third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three near the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its supraclavi- inner end ; the middle branch (clavicular) lies about the middle of that bone ; and the external (acromial) turns over the clavicular attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distributed to the skin of the chest and shoulder. Derived from the descending set are one or two posterior ciitaneoits Posterior 7ierves of the neck, which ramify in the integument covering the cutaneous, trapezius above the scapula. The lymphatic glands lying along the sterno-mastoid (glandulse Lymphatic concatenatse) are some of the deep cervical glands, and are continuous |eck^'^ °^ through the lower part of the posterior triangular space with the glands of the axilla. A chain of superficial cervical glands accom- panies the external jugular vein ; and close to the skull, over the apex of the posterior triangular space, are one or two small sub- occipital glands; while farther forwards, resting on the insertion of the stemo-inastoid, there are two or three small mastoid glands. Directions. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be re- Directions, peated on the left side of the neck, in order that tlie difference in the vessels may be oliserved. Afterwards, the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened, in their natural position with a few stitches, preservative fluid or salt having been previously applied. The body is now to be turned for the examination of the back ; Tlic back to