MUSCLES ON THE FRONT. 686 to the slieatlis of the peronei muscles on the outer side of the os calcis. It contains the two lateral jjeronei muscles in one compart- ment ; and this is lined by a synovial membrane, which sends two offsets below into the separate sheaths of the tendons. The Muscles on the Front of the Leg (fig. 211) are four in Muscles on , , , ., . . , -1 • T ,• the front of number. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus ; the leg that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; while a small muscle, apparently the lower end of the last with a separate tendon to the fiftli metatarsal bone, is the j^eroneus tertius. The muscle between the tibialis and extensor digitorum, in the lower part of the leg, is the extensor jDroprius hallncis. On the dorsum of the foot only one other muscle appears, the and foot, extensor brevis digitorum. The TIBIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 211,^) reacbes the tarsus : it is thick Tibialis and fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the leg. ^^t^'^"^ = It a7-ises from the outer tuberosity, and the upper half of the external origin; surface of the tibia ; from the contiguous part of the interosseous membrane; and from the fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor longus digitorum. Its tendon begins below the middle of the leg, and passes beneath both pieces of the annular ligament, where it is surrounded by a synovial sheath, to be inseiied into the internal cuneiform bone, and the metatarsal insertion; bone of the great toe. The muscle is subaponeurotic. It lies at first outside the tibia, rest- parts in ing on the interosseous membrane ; but it is then placed successively • over the end of the tibia, the ankle-joint, and the inner tarsal bones. On its outer side are the extensor muscles of the toes, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Action. Supposing the foot not fixed, the tibialis bends the ankle, use on the and raises the inner border of the foot. If the foot is fixed, it can lift the inner border with the tibialis and fixed; posticus, and support the foot on the outer edge. If the tibia is slanting backwards, as when the advanced limb on the tibia reaches the ground in walking, it can bring forwards and make steady that bone. The extensor PROPRIUS HALLUCIS (ext. prop, pollicis pedis ; Extensor fig. 211) is deeply placed at its origin between the former muscle h°aifucis- and the extensor longus digitorum, but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the middle two- origin from fourths of the narrow anterior surface of the fibula, and from the ^^''"^''^' interosseous membrane for the same distance. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which comes to the surface through a sheath in the insertion to lower piece of the annular ligament, and continues over the tarsus to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle at it crosses its origin, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that "''^^^^^^' they are crossed by it in the lower third of the leg. Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal use on great joints, and afterwards bends the ankle. * ^"<^ >"