341 VEINS OF THE IIEAET. to be guarded by valves, witli the ; and at its riglit end is the Thebesian diti'erent veins will be •seen exception of the oblique vein valve of the right auricle. The left coronary or great cardiac the apex of the heart, first ascends in the interventricular groove, ;ind then turns to the back in the sulcus between the left auricle luid ventricle, to open into the coronary sinus (fig. lOS,"*). It receives bi'anches, mainly i'rom the left side of the heart, in its course; and its endina in vein, beginning in front near its ending marked by a Fig. 103.^ Small coi'o- nary vein Posterior cardiac veins. Anterior cardiac veins. the sinus is double valve. The right coronary vein (■'*) is of small size, and runs in the hinder part of the right auriculo - ventricular groove to tlie right end of the coro- nzxy sinus. The posterior cardiac veins (ft) ascend on the back of the left ventricle to the coro- nary sinus; and one larger vessel, the middle cardiac vein, lies in the posterior in- terventricular furrow. The anterior cardiac veins are three or four in number, and run upwards on the front of the right ventricle to ojien separately into the lower part of the right auricle. Smallest card.iac veins. Other small veins lie in the substance the heart, and are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac nerves. The nerves for the supply of the heart are Nerves of lieart derived from a large plexus (cardiac) beneath the arch of the aorta, from which offsets proceed to accompany the coronary arteries. The greater part of this plexus is deeply placed, and will be dissected at a later stage, but a superficial prolongation may now be seen. The siiperjicial cardiac plexus is placed below the arch of the aorta, Superficial to the right of the ductus arteriosus. The nerves joining it are the ^'^^^^^ left superficial cardiac of the sympathetic, the lower cervical cardiac of the left vagus (p. 357), and a considerable bundle from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion is sometimes seen in the plexus. Inferiorly it sends off nerves along the right coronary artery to the heart. A few filaments run on the left division of the pulmonary artery to the left lung. * Back of tlie heart with its veins and tlie coronavy sinus. (Marshall.) ^•^'ght auricle, b. Left auricle, with the appendix, o. 1. Coronary sinus. '2. Oblique vein. .3, Right coronary vein. 4. Left or great coronary vein. ++ Pos- terior canliac veins ; the larger one on the right is the middle cardiac vein. of Smallest veins. ends in right coro- nary.