DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 424 Course of fiir and effused urine. Dissection of nerves and vessels on right side. b^'a septum Surface a septum extends upwards in the middle line, and a sop urn. j^Yides posteriorly the subjacent space into two ; but anteriorly this partition is less perfect, or may disappear. Ail- blown beneath the fascia jiasses forwards to the scrotum; and this direction is given to it by the deep connections of tlie membrane with parts aroimd. Should urine be effused beneath the superficial fascia, the fluid will necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum to the ])enis and the front of the abdomen. Dissection. The superficial vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side of the perineum, by cutting through the super- ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long slender artery then -Ndsible is the superficial perineal, which gives a transverse branch near its commencement. Two superficial perineal nerves accompany the artery; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communication are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perineal and the inferior hasmorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards. Arteries (fig, 133). The superficial and transverse perineal arteries beneath the fascia are branches of the pudic, and are two or three in number. The SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL ARTERY (fig. 133, b), arising at the fore -part of the ischio-rectal fossa, runs over or under the ti-ansverse muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia, to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in flexuous branches. In its course through the perineum the vessel supplies offsets to the muscles beneath ; and in the scrotum it anastomoses with the external pudic branches of the femoral artery. Sometimes there is a second perineal branch. Transverse The TRANSVERSE ARTERY OF THE PERINEUM (fig. 133, a) arises artery. from the preceding, and is directed transversely to the middle of the perineal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and the muscles between the urethra and the rectum. It anastomoses with the one of the oj^posite side. Branches of veim accompany the arteries, and trunk of the pudic vein ; those with the superficial are plexiform at the scrotum. Nerves (fig. 133). Three nerves run forwards to each side, viz., the inferior pudendal of the small superficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve. The SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL NERVES, two in number, are named external and internal : both arise in the ischio-rectal fossa from the perineal division of the pudic nei"ve (p. 421). The external branch (^) is continued forwards, beneath the super- ficial fascia, with the artery of the same name to the back of the scrotum. While in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an oflset to the integuments in front of the anus ; and this conunuuicates with the inferior hoemorrhoidal nerve. Superficial vessels of pudic. Superficial perinea] ends in gcrotuinj and supplies muscles. Veins with the arteries. Cutaneous nerves of scrotum. Two super- ficial peri- neal ; external open into the perineal artery the scrotum on sciatic, and two