471 RELATIONS OF LIVER. peritoneum; its upper end is attaclied to the diaphragm by a special fold (pleuro-colic) of that membrane. The sigmoid flexure of the colon, beginning at the iliac crest, first S^S'^icud] descends in the left iliac fossa, over the ilio-psoas muscle and the ^^^^^^ external iliac vessels, being fixed in this position by the peritoneum, until it reaches the brim of the pelvis. Here the intestine forms a forms a large loop, which is provided with a long process of peritoneum— varies^Iii'"' the sigmoid meso-colon, and is therefore freely moveable. The loop position; commonly hangs down in the cavity of the pelvis; but it often projects forwards in the iliac fossa, and reaches the anterior wall of the abdomen. Opposite the brim of the pelvis, in the neighbour- ending, hood of the left sacro-iliac articulation, it ends in the rectum. The rectum, or the termination of the large intestine, is con- Rectum, .tained in the pelvis, and will be examined in the dissection of that cavity. The LIVER (fig. 144) is situate in the right hyiJochondriac and Position of the epigastric regions, and often reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac. It is covered in front by the ribs with their car- tilages, except over a small area in the subcostal angle. Folds of peritoneum, called ligaments, attach it to the abdominal parietes. The upj)er surface fits against the diaphragm, and is convex on each surfaces, side, but slightly hollowed in the centre below the heart: the right ^^^^^ portion is more prominent than the left, and reaches to the level of the fourth intercostal space. This surface is divided into two parts, corresponding to the right and left lobes of the organ, by the falciform ligament. The lower surface looks also somewhat backwards ; it is in con- and lower; tact with the stomach, the first and second parts of the duodenum, the small omentum, the right kidney, and the beginning of the transverse colon. To this surface the small omentum, containing the hepatic vessels, is attached. The anterior border is thin and directed downwards. On the anterior right side it is concealed by the ribs ; but in the epigastric region ' it is exposed, running obliquely from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage : it crosses the middle line of the body about a hand's-breadth below the xiphi-sternal articulation. The fundus of the gall-bladder (fig. 144, gh) projects beyond this edge, close to the ninth costal cartilage of the right side. Posteriorly, the liver has the following relations, but they cannot posterior all be seen at present :—The left lobe lies in fi-ont of the oesophagus, relations of and is attached to the diaphragm by a -triangular fold of peritoneum ^^^^ —the left lateral ligament. The two layers of peritoneum fixing and of the right lobe are for the most part widely separated, and constitute ^'Si^t ^ohtt. the coronary ligament; but at the right end they come together, and give rise to a small triangular fold which is distinguished as the right lateral ligament. The portion of the surface between the layers of the coronary ligament is adherent directly to the diaphragm by means of areolar tissue : in this space also the left suprarenal capsule touches the liver; and the inferior vena cava is embedded in a deep groove in its substance (fig. 158).