DISSECTION OF THE NECK 64 Use. Oino-hyoid muscle begins at the scapula, and ends at liybid bone. Relations. Use. Sterno- hyoid muscle. Relations. Use. Sterno-tliy- roid muscle. below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts :— The clavicular origin is superficial to the anterior scalenus and omo- hyoid muscles; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery Mith its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, the middle scalenus, and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skull on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occijjital ailery, and part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the jimction of the upper and middle thirds. Action. Both muscles acting bend the cervical part of the spine, carrying the head forwards ; but one muscle will turn the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with other muscles attached to the mastoid process, one sterno-mastoid \^ill incluie the head towards the shoulder of the saiue side. In laborious respu'ation the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. The OMO-HYOiD MUSCLE crosses beneath the stemo-mastoid, and consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small intermediate tendon (fig. 14, ^). The origin of the muscle from the scapula, and the relations of the posterior belly are to be studied in the dissection of the back. From the intervening tendon the anterior fleshy belly (fig. 15, ^) is dii-ected upwards along the outer border of the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great comu. The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escaping from beneath the sterno-mastoid, and rests on the s'.emo-thyroid and th}TO-hyoid. This part of the muscle crosses the carotid vessels on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Action. The omo-hyoid muscle depresses and tends to draw back- wards the hyoid bone. The STERNO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 15,^) is a flat thin band nearer the middle line than the preceding. It arises from the inner end of the clavicle at its posterior aspect, from the back of the manubrium and the cartilage of the first rib. From this origin it ascends to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the liyoid bone, internal to the preceding muscle. Its fibres are often interrupted near the clavicle by a tendinous intersection. One surface is covered by the sterno-mastoid and the fascia. "When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to touch the sterno-thyroid, the thyro-hyoid, and tlie thyroid cartilage. The right and left muscles are separated by an interval which is wider below. Action. It draws the hyoid bone downwards after swallo^^^llg; and in laborious respiration it will aid in raising the sternum. The STERNO-THYROID MUSCLE is broader and shorter than the stemo-hyoid, beneath which it lies. It arises from the posterior surface of the sternum and cartilage of the first rib below the sterno- hyoid, and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thjToid cartilage, where it meets the thyro-hyoid muscle.