DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 62 the depressor muscles of the hyoid hone; hut heyond that spot they are covered hy the superficial layers over the space, and hy tlie sterno-mastoid muscle which, hefore it is disjdaced, conceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. Bifiu-cation. For a short distance after its exit from beneath the depressor anuscles of the hyoid bone, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk; but opposite the upper border of the thyroid carti- lage it divides into two large vessels, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these arteries are contuiued onAvards iDeneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. Position of At first the trimks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the to 011™°^^^ internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the posterior of anotiier. the two ; but above the digastric muscle it becomes deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes Branches, many branches to the neck and the outer part of the head, viz., some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear ; and others upwards to the head. Changes in But the common carotid does not always divide as here said, divisfon of^ For the point of branching of the vessel may be moved from the carotid. uj)j)er border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or down- wards, so that the trunk may remain undivided till it is beyond the hyoid bone, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trimk (though very rarely) furnishing offsets to the neck and head. Jugular In close contact wdth the outer side of both the common and the ^^^^' internal carotid artery, and encased in a sheath of fascia with them, is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches in the neck corresponding to some of the branches of the suj)erficial artery. In some position bodies the vein covers the artery ; and the branches joining it above vanes. ^^^^ form a kind of plexus over the upj)er end of the common carotid. Nerves with Nerves in the space. In connection with the large vessels are the ' following nerves with a longitudinal direction :—On the surface of the common carotid artery, and most frequently witliin the sheath, lies the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve; between the lying along artery and jugular vein is the pneumo-gastric nerve; and behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the sj)inal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, untU it pierces the stemo-mastoid muscle, theinSeveral nerves are placed across the vessels:—thus, directed transversely over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hj'poglossal nerve gi^'ing oft' its descending branch (descendens noni). Appearing on the iaaner side of the carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharju- geal nerve, which com-ses forwards between them. To tlie inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight; while a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve.