399 SUBOCCIPITAL MUSCLES. the obliqinis superior. It lies over the posterior arcii of the atlas and the ligaments attached to that part of the bone. Aiiion. By the action of both muscles the head will be drawn use. backwiirds. One rectus acting alone will rotate, as well as extend the head, turning the face to the same side. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 122, b) is a small Rectus pos- , . • ticus iiiiuor i fan-shaped muscle, lying to the inner side of the preceding. Aris- ing close to the middle line from a slight roughness on the posterior attach- ■arch of the atlas, it is inserted into the inner third of the inferior ' curved line of the occipital bone, and an impression below this. This muscle is deeper than the rectus major: it lies over the I'elations; posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. The two small recti correspond to the interspinal muscles between the other verteljras. Action. The rectus j)osticus minor extends the head. and use. The OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR (tig. 122, C) is the strongest of Obliquus the subocciiDital muscles. It arises from the sj)inous process of the '• axis below the rectus posticus major, and is inserted into the lower attacli- and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. ' The inferior oblique is concealed by the complexus and trachelo- relations; mastoid muscles, and is crossed by the great occipital nerve. Action. This muscle turns the face to the same side, by rotating the atlas on the axis. The OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR (fig. 122, d) arises from the Obliquus transverse process of the atlas above the insertion of the preceding ^'^P^''"'''' muscle, and is directed upwards and inwards to be inserted into the ^^tt^ch- outer part of the space between the curved lines of the occipital bone. The origui of the muscle is beneath the trachelo-mastoid, and its relations; insertion beneath the complexus. In the interval between these it is covered by the splenius. It lies over the vertebral artery and the insertion of the rectus posticus major. Action. Witli its fellow the upper oblif[ue will assist in carrying use backwards the head. By the action of one muscle the head will be inclined backwards, and to the same side. Suboccipital triangle (fig. 122). This name is given to the small Triangular space wliich is bounded below by the obliquus inferior muscle, and tween ti^e above by the rectus posticus major on the inner side, and the muscles: •«)blifiuus superior on the outer side. It is covered by the com- plexus ; and its floor is formed by the neural arch of the atlas, with the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. In it are seen a small contents, part of the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the sub- occipital nerve. _ * Traxsverso-Spinales. Occupying the vertebral gi-oove by the Trausverso- «ide of the spinous processes is a long muscular mass, which extends = from the lower part of the sacrum to the axis. This is composed of filips whicli are directed obliquely from tranverse or articular ju'o- arrange- cesses to spinous processes, and are therefore designated collectively transverso-spinales. The slips differ in length, and form three layers, which are described as separate muscles, viz., a superficial and sub- «tratum ol long slips, confined to the cervical and dorsal regions— "-i'^''^'''''^-