109 PNEUMO-GASTllIC NEllYE. to ioin the pliarjmgeal branch of the vagus and take part in the formation of the pharyngeal plexus; and one or two smaller twigs penetrate the superior constrictor muscle. h A muscidar branch enters the stylo-pharyngeus while the nerve stylo- pnaryngeus, is in contact with the muscle. c. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of tlie tonsil, soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—circulus tonsillaris. d. Lingual branches. The terminal branches of the nerve supply and tongue, the hinder part of the tongue, in connection with which they are described (Section XV). The PiXEUMO-GASTRIC or VAGUS NERVE (fig. 27,") is the largest vagus nerve of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal accessory. In ^^S- 27. the foramen it has a distinct gang- ^^^^ lion (gang, of the root), to which / the smaller part of the spinal acces- ^\ in jugular foramen, and in tlic neck, courses to the thorax. sory nerve is connected. "When the nerve has left the fora- men, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a ganglion nearly an inch long (gang, of the truiik). This ganglion lies between the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates ■with several nerves. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends almost vertically (fig. 26,^) between the in- ternal jugidar vein and the internal and common carotid arteries ; and it enters that cavity, on the right side, by crossing over the subclavian artery, but beneath the innominate vein. * The ganglion of the root (fig. 27,*') is of a greyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Small branches in the jugular foramen come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (^) is cylindrical in form, reddish in «ij>d imver colour, and nearly an inch in length ; it communicates with the ° ° hypoglossal, spinal, and sympathetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve enter the ganglion, but those Its upper ganglion, * Diagram of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves. A. Pons. B. Medulla oblongata. 1. Glos-so-i^haryngeal nerve. 2. Vagus. 3, 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrous ganglion. 6, Tympanic nerve. 7. Auri- cular branch. 8. Root-ganglion, and 9. Trunk-ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrous and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Large part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal, and 14. Superior laryngeal branch of vagus.