282 DISSECTION OF FEONT OF FOREARM. ing as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconens muscle. aiiticus^' outer side of the limb the inu-sculo-spiral nerve Ruppli(;H and imisclos the hrachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearnj, viz of forearm. • , i i , . j '"■■> supmator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Directions. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as far as the elbow, it will l)e advisable to keep moist the shoulder- joint until it is examined with the other ligaments. Section IY. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position of the limb. Surface of the forearm. Bony pro- jections. Line of the wrist-joint. Surface of palm of tlie hand. Position of palmar arch. Surface of the fingers. Position. The limb is to be placed with the palm of the hand iippermost; and the marking of the surface and the projections of bone are first to be noted Surface-marking. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two lateral depressions, corresponding with the position of the main A^essels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only below the middle of the forearm, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. The bones (radius and ubia) are suiiiciently near the surface to be traced in their whole length : each ends below in a j)oint—the styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lower. A transverse line separates the forearm from the hand, and the articulation of the wrist is about three-quarters of an inch above it. On each side of the palm of the hand is a large projection ; the external of these (thenar) is formed by muscles of the thumb, and the internal (hypothenar) by muscles of the little finger. At the upper end of the latter the prominent j)isiform bone is easily felt; and towards the outer side of the wrist, below the end of the radius, the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone is to be recognized. Between the muscular eminences is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it: they result from the bending of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, but the lower one is nearly half an inch above the three iinier jouits wlien the fingers are extended. The position of the superficial palmar arch of arteries is marked by the middle third of a line across the palm from the root of tlic thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Transverse lines on the palmar aspects of the thumb and fiugei-s correspond to the articulations of the phalanges ; but while the middle and lower ones are nearly opposite (about a line above) the two interphalangeal axticulations, the upper one is fully half an inch bcloAV the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Dissection DviseAion. With the limb lying flat on the talde, an incision is to