DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 432 Apei'tures «iC rtiuis and vulva. External labia flnd com- missures. Clitoris. Internal labia. Prepuce and friBnum of clitoris. Vestibule. Opening of urethra. Aperture of vagina. Hymen and caruncles. Fourchette and fossa navicularis. Boundaries alike in both sexes. Dissection. Take fli'st ischio-rectal fossa. Tlien ex- amine ante- rior hair of perineum. and the surrounding vulva, which occupy tlie position of the scrotum in the male. Surface-marking.—External organs of (jeneration. In the middle line thei-e are the aperture of the anus and tlie cleft of the vulva, which are separated from one another by an interval of about an inch. The anu.s i« situate a little farther back than in tlie nude. The cleft or rirm of the vulva is bounded at the sides Ijy the labia majora, two prominent folds, thick and rounded in front, ljut becoming thinner as they pass backwards, which correspond to tlic scrotum of the male. The labia are formed externally by skin, which is provided with scattered hairs, and internally by mucous membrane. They are united in front and behind in the anterior and posterior commissures. Within the rima, at tlie fore part, is the clitoris, from which tw<j folds of mucous membrane, the labia minora or mjmphoi, e.vtend backwards, one on each side of the aperture of the vagina. At its anterior end each nympha divides into two smaller folds, the outer of which unites with the one of the opposite side so as to form a kind of hood over the front of the clitoris—the prcepufimn clitoridU, while the inner one, much shorter and tliinner, is attached to tlit- back of the clitoris in contact with its fellow, the two constitutiii'' the frcenuhtm clitoridis. Enclosed by the labia minora, and between the clitoris and the orifice of the vagma, is a median recess about an inch and a half deej), which is called the vestibule. At the hinder part of the vestibule is the orifice of the urethra (meatus tm-inarius), suiTounded by a slight eminence, about one inch behind the clitoris, and near the apertui-e of the vagina. The orifice of tlie vagina varies much in size; and in the cbUd and virgin it is often partly closed behind by a thin semilunar fold of the mucous membrane—the hymen. After the destruction of the hymen small, irregidarly shaped projections, the caruncula myrtiformes, are found in its place. At the back of the rima, within the posterior commissure of the labia, is a narrow transverse fold of the integument called the fourchette or froinulum pudencli; and to the interval between the frsennlum and the commissure the name fossa navicularis is given. Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineum are alike in both sexes; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis is lai'ger than in the male. Dissection. The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the sanKi description will serve, generally, for the male and female perineum. First, the dissection ol' the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made. Afterwards the muscles, vessels and nerves of the posterior half of the perineal space are to be examined. (See description of the male perineum, pp. 417 to 422). Next, the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perineal space, as in the male ; and the transverse incision in front is to he made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of tlie