425 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF ANTERIOR EALF. The internal branch f) passes under tlie transverse muscle, and and internal; accompanies the other to the scrotum. The superficial perineal branches communicate with one another, and the external is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the ^^^^pl^t^nj scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, which reach and penis. far as the under surface of the penis. Other viuscular branches of the perineal nerve will be afterwards Muscular , , . ^ „, branches, o.xammed (p. 426). The INFERIOR PUDENDAL NERVE (■*) is a lirauch of the small sciatic, p^^gj^^jj^j It i)ierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial nerve tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perineum, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- ends in tions take place between this nerve, the iiiferior hsemorrhoidal, and ' the outer of the two superficial jjerineal branches. Dissection. For the display of the muscles, the superficial fascia, Dissection of muscles SIS well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken of the awav from the anterior half of the perineal space. Afterwards a urethra and tlim aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the surface of the muscles. Next to the middle line lies the ejaculator urina3 ; along the outer edge of the space is the erector penis ; and behind, passing obliquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. On the right side the student should seek the branches of the and of their ])erineal nen-e to the muscles. nerves. Muscles (fig. 133). Superficial to the triangular ligament, in the Three anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz., the ™"sc]es erector penis, the ejaculator urinse, and the transversus perinei. angular Another muscle of the uretlira is contained between the layers of ^'S'^"^^'^'^- the triangular ligament, and Avill be subsequently seen. Central point of the perineum. Between the urethra and the rec- Central turn is a small transverse tendinous septum, to the centre of which this name has been applied. It is placed about one inch in front of the anus, and in it the muscles acting on the rectum and urethra where are united. Its development varies greatly in different bodies. join°^^* The ERECTOR PENIS (ischio-cavemosus ; fig. 133, b) is the most Erector external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end than in P«"'s: tlie middle. It covers the cms penis ; and its fibres arise from the origin; ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus. In front, the muscle is insertion; inserted into the inner and outer siu-faces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Actxo'a. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- use. jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from the corpus cavemosum by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the erection of the organ. The EJACULATOR URIN^ (bulbo-cavcrnosus ; fig. 133, a) lies on Ejaculator the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median= tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the penneum {origin). The fibres are directed outwards, curving origm at around the convexity of the uretlira, and give rise to a thin muscle, ""^^dle lin which has the following insertion .-—The hindmost fibres end on the