DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Ion 11 iiiul size ; tlicy !ire named verticiil, posterior vertical, ami liori- zontal. Fibrous inembraue lines the labjTiiitli, :iuil ciiiitains a Huid. Cochlea : disseution for it ill dry and recent hone; rorni and situation ; it is not circular, but is compressed laterallyj and measures aljout ij^jth of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and liori/ojital. The svperioi- vertical canal (a) crosses the upper border of tlie petrous part of tlie temporal Fig. 537.* bone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked by the ampulla, while the inner is joined with the following. The 'posterior vertical canal (/<) is directed backwards from its junction with the preceding to- wards tlie posterior surface of the temporal bone ; it is the longest of all, and has its am- pulla at the lower end. The Im-izontal canal (c) ha.s separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in jjosition than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining memhrane of the osseous labyrinth. A thin fibrous periosteal membrane lines the vestibule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the A-estibulc On the outer wall of the cavity it stretches over the fenestra ovalis ; and in front it is prolonged into the coclrlea through the aperture of the scala vestibuli (fig. 236, g). Thesi^ace between the 2:)eriosteum and the membranous laliyrinth is occupied by a thin fluid—liquor Cotunnii or perilymph, wliich also fills the scalae of the cochlea. Cochlea. This part of the osseous labyrinth has a, position anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its a-esem- blance to, a spiral sliell. Dissection. To obtain a view of the cochlea it will be needful to cut or file away the bone between the promontory of the tympanum and the internal auditory canal on the preparation before used Ibr displaying the vestibule ; or this section may be made on another temporal bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. For the like dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should be used. The cochlea (fig. 238) is conical in form, and is placed almost horizontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of tliis body * Representation of the semicirculnr canals enlarged (from a model in University College Museum), a. Upper vertical ; b, posterior vertical ; and e, horizontal canal, d. Common opening of the two vertical canals, e. Part of the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule.