DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 266 Teres iiiinui' : origin ; insertion parts around it; and use. Teres ma.jcir origin ; insertion; relations. Use on swinging and Oxed liml). Spaces be- tween tlio teres; anterior and posterior. Dissection of ligaments of the cla- vicle. The TERES MINOR (fig, 78, c) iii a narrow fleshy slip, which is often united inseimrably with tlie jireceding muscle. It arises on the doi'Huni oi' the scapula from a sjiecial impi'ession along the upjjer two-thirds of the axillary horder of tiie bone, aud irom an iuter- muscular septum on each side ; and it is inserted by a tendon into the lowest of the three marks on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as \\'ell as by fleshy flbres into the bone below that spot—aljout an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid : it rests on tlje lou^ head of the triceps and the shoulder-joint. Underneath it thedoi-sal branch of the subscapular artery turns. Action. The limb hanging, the muscle rotates it out and moves it back ; the arm being raised, the teres depresses the humerus. The TERES MAJOR MUSCLE (fig. 78, d) passes from the inferior angle of the scapula to the humenis. Its origin is from an oval surface beliind the inferior angle of the scapula, from the lower half of the axillary border of the bone, and from the intermuscular septum hetweeir it and the teres minor. The fibres end in a tendon whicli is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humeru-. The muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla, and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humenis (fig. 72). The upper border is contiguous to the subscapular]- muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by tlie latissimus dorsi, which covers the teres behind at its origin, and ia front at its insertion. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latissimus; the two are separated above by a bursa ; but thej'' are imited below, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa is frequently present between the teres and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs it is earned back behind the trunk, and is rotated inwards by the muscle. The hiunerus being raised, the muscle depresses and adducts it. With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower angle of the scapula to moA^e forwards. Below the scapula, where the teres muscles separate from one another, is a triangular interval, which is bounded in front by the shaft of the humerus, and above and below by the teres minor and major (fig. 78). This space is divided into two by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior j)art, which is of a quadri- lateral shape, the posterior circumflex vessels {a) and the circunifleoc nerve (') pass; and opposite the posterior triangular space, the dorsal branch (c) of the subscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection (fig. 79). Before sawing through the acromion process to expose the suprasjnnatus muscle, the lig;unents of the scaimla and clavicle should be examined. A strong liganrent (coraco-clavicular) ascends from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle : on removing the areolar tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and posterior, difl'ering in size, and in the dirccticm of the fibres.