DISSECTION OF THE LAJIYNX. Ifi6 Arytenoid muscle lies on back of iirytenoid Ciirtilages. Use. Aryteno- epiglotti- dean mus- cles cross like letter X. Use. Dissection of internal muscles. Remove half of thyroid cartilage. Position of muscles. Lateral crico-aryte- noid mus- cle. Use. The ARYTENOID MUSCLE is single, and extends across the middle line, closing the interval between the arytenoid cartilages behind. Its transverse fibres are attached on each side to the outer part of the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. On its hinder surface lie the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles; and the laryngeal mucous membrane covers it in front in the space between the cartilages. Action. It draws together the arytenoid cartilages, rendering narrower the opening of the glottis. The ARYTENO-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MUSCLES are two Small bimdk-s which cross obliquely from one side to the other on the back of tlic arytenoid muscle. Each arises from the outer and lower part of the posterior surface of one arytenoid cartilage, and passes to tlie upper part of the outer border of the cartilage of the oppo.site side, where a few of the fibres are inserted, but the greater number turn round this border and end iu the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of the mucous membrane, some reaching the margin of the epiglottis. A slip is also prolonged into the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The ending of the muscle will be seen later when the ala of the thyroid carti- lage has been removed. Action. These muscles bring together the tips of the arytenoid cartUages, and depress the epiglottis, thus assisting to close the upper aperture of the larynx in swallowing. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal apparatus would be learnt better on a fresh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into view the deep muscles (fig. 41), it will be necessary to remove the greater part of the right ala of the thyroid cartilage, Ijy cutting through it a quarter of an rach from the middle line, after its lower comu has been detached from the cricoid, and the crico- thyroid muscle taken away. By dividing next the thjTO- hyoid membrane attached to the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolar tissue from it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector wUl define ioferiorly the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle ; above it, the thjTO- arytenoid muscle ; and still higher, the pale fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean and thyro-epiglottidean muscles in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the fleshy fibres. The LATERAL CRICO-ARYTENOID MUSCLE (fig. 41,^) arises from tlie upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the side, and is directed back- wards to be inserted into the fore part of the musculai- process of the arytenoid cartilage. It is concealed by the crico-thyroid mufi'' and the thyroid cartilage ; and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle. Action. It rotates inwards the arytenoid cartUage, opposing thj posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, and approaching the one vocal cord to the other, so as to narrow the glottis.