STECJCTUllE OF rOjSTS. 199 diviiled along tlie lino of the pyramid of the right side (fig. 56) may fo expose he tm-ned outwards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of ' that body ; and tliis set of longitudinal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper border of the pons. Beneath them will appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 57, /). The deep transverse fibres may next be cut through outside the pATamidal tract (fig. 57), and the reticular formation will then be seen, in Avhich deep longitudinal fibres ascend from the medulla (fig. 57,4 The transverse fibres of the ventral portion of the pons are derived Transverse from the crus or middle peduncle of the cerebellum. They are ygntrcoi^ mostly collected into two layers, superficial and deep (fig. 57), portion, which enclose the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid ; but some transverse fibres pass between the bundles of the pyramidal tract. The superficial fibres are nearly horizontal in the lower part of the pons, but the upper ones descend to join the cerebellar pediuicle, and some are seen on the surface crossing obliquely over the lower fibres. The pyramidal fibres enter the pons below as a single mass, but in Pyramidal their passage upwards through the pons they are broken np by de- ^'^j^* cussating bundles of transverse fibres. Much increased in number, they emerge at the npper border of the pons, and are continued into the superficial portion (crusta) of the eras cerebri. Scattered amongst the transverse fibres are numerous small Grey juatter masses of gi-ey matter (nuclei pontis) ; and fibres entering the pons fliji-es"^^^'^^ by one cerebellar peduncle are believed to cross to the other side, suppo.sed and there ioin nerve-cells in these nuclei, from which other fibres course of fibres take origin, and ascend with the fibres of the pyr-amid to the crus cerebri The reticular formation of the pons is formed of longitudinal Fomatio fibres continued from the medulla oblongata (p. 197), and passing upwards to the deep portion (tegmentum) of the cru.s cerebri (fig. 57, rf), decussating with transverse fibres which are also derived from the peduncle of the cerebellum. It contains much interspersed grey matter; and near the floor of the fourth ventricle there are several nerve-nuclei, which will be referred to when that caAdty is described. In the dorsal portion of the pons, as in the medulla oblongata, Raphe, there is a median rafM, formed mainly Ijy the transverse fibres changing their direction as they cross the middle line. There is farther in the lower part of the pons, close behind the Superior deep transverse fibres of the ventral portion, and occupying a position immediately above the olivary body, a sniall collection of grey matter to which the name of superior olivary micleus is given.