FASCIA OF FOllEARM. 285 The DORSAL 1JUA^•CH OF THE ULNAR NERVK givCS offsetS to thc rest of tlie fingers and thc back of the hand. Appearing by the norve to styloid process of thc uLia, it joins the radial nerve in an arch across 1^1^^^ ami the back of the hand, and is distributed to both sides of the little lingers, finger, and to the idnar side of the ring finger : it communicates Avith the part of thc radial norve furnislied to the space between the ring and middle fingers; and sometimes it supplies this space I entirely. j The doi-sal digital nerves are much smaller than those on the Extent of 'palmar a.spect, and camiot be followed on the fingers farther than fingers, the base of the second phalanx. On the sides of the finger each com- j municates A\'ith an oft'set from the palmar nerve. The APONEUROSIS of the forearm is continuous with the similar Deep fascia 'investment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed lof fibres which cross obliquely. The membrane is thicker behind I than in front, and is stronger near the elbow than towards the wrist. I At the upi^er part it receives fibres from the tendon of the biceps in i front, and of the triceps behind ; and it gives origin to the muscles !springing from the condyles of the humerus. Longittidinal white lines indicate the position of deep processes (intermuscular septa), *which separate the muscles, and give origin to their fleshy fibres. 'On the back of the forearm the fascia is attached to the hinder border of the ulna, and to the margins of a triangular surface at the upper end of that bone, which is left subcutaneous. At the wrist the fascia joins the anterior annular ligament; and At the II ar that band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces it, and^™®*' ives a sheath from it. Close to the pisiform bone there is an irture through which the uhiar vessels and nerve enter the fat of tliu hand. Behind the wrist it is thickened by transverse fibres, posterior ■ji\'ing rise to the posterior amiular ligament ; but on the back of n'gament. hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin. Dissection. The skin is to be rejilaced on the back of the forearm T.ake away ■ aid hand, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. [^^.^Je^^ and l'>i\i,dnning the dissection on the anterior surface of the limb, let the veins.' dent divide the aponeurosis as far as the wrist, and take it away h. the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar t aneous ofi"sets of the median and ulnar nerves near the hand. 111 cleaning the muscles it will be impossible to remove the aponeu- -is from them at the upper part of the forearm without cutting the -iiscular fibres. In front of the elbow is the hollow, already partly dissected, clean out I 'i tween the two masses of muscles arising from the inner and outer °^ sides of the humerus. The space should be carefully cleaned, so as to display the brachial and forearm vessels, the median nerve and branches, the musculo-spiral nerve, and the recurrent radial and tilnar arteries. In the lower half of the forearm a large artery, radial, is to be laid bare along thc outer border ; and at the inner side, close to the annular ligament, the trunk of thc ulnar artery will be recognised as it becohies superficial. These vessels and their branches should