307 SUPEEFICIAL MUSCLES. The POSTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT (k) is a part of the deep fascia, thickened by the addition of transverse fibres, and is situate opposite the lower ends of the bones of the forearm. This band Fig. 91.* is attached on the outer side to the v radius, and on the inner to the pyramidal and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the bones beneath, and confine the Annulai- ligament behind the wrist. extensor tendons. The ligament wiU. subsequently be examined more in detail. Superficial Layer op Muscles (fig. 91). The muscles of the back of the forearm are arranged in a superficial and a de,ep layer. The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise, in part by a common tendon, from the outer side of the humerus, and are placed in the following order from without inwards ;—the long supinator (a), the lona; and short radial extensors of the wrist (b and c), the common extensor of the fingers (d), the ex- tensor of the little finger (e), and the ulnar extensor of the wrist (f). There is one other small muscle near the elbow—the anconeus (g). The SUPINATOR radii longus (a) reaches upwards into the arm, and limits on the outer side the hollow in front of the elbow. The muscle arises from the u^jper two-thirds of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, and from the front of the external intermuscular septum of the arm. The fleshy fibres end about the middle of the forearm in a tendon, which is inserted into the lower end of the radius, close above the styloid process. In the ami the margins of the supinator are directed towards the surface and the bone, but in the fore- arm the muscle is flattered over the others, with its edges forwards and backwards, Superficial layer has seven mus- cles. Supinator longus: origin; insertion; relations; Its anterior * Superficial dissection of the back of the forearm. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) Muscles: A. Supinator longus. b. Extensor carpi radialis longior. 0 Extensor carpi radialis brevier, D. Extensor communis digitorum.