dissection' of deep vessels and nerves of neck. 112 branches join it to vagus, sympa- thetic, and spinal nerves, and supply, muscles. Dissection of rectus lateralis. Keotus lateralis. Parts around. Use. Dissection of first nerve. Anterior division of suboccipital nerve lies on atlas, forms a loop ■with second. Branches. Syni])athctic anterior condylar foramen, is at lirst deeply placed between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (iig. 26 ''). It next comes forwards between the vein and arteiy, turning round the outer side of the vagus to "which it is closely united. The nei-ve now descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle in the anterior triangular space (p. 77) ; from this spot it is directed forwards to the tongue and its muscles (p, 98). Connecting Iranches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united to the lower ganglion of the vagus by filaments crossing between the two nerves as they are in contact. A little lower down the nerve is joined by offsets from the sympathetic and the loop of the first two spinal nerA'es. The branches for distribution have been met with in the foregoing dissections. Thus, in the neck it su.pplies, in common with the spinal nerves, the depressors of the liyoid bone. In tlie sub- maxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio-liyoid) of the hyoid bone, to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the palato-glossus, and to all the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. Dissection. The small rectus capitis lateralis jnuscle, between the transverse jjrocess of the atlas and the base of the skull, is now to be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms a loop in front of the atla-s, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS (fig. 26) is very short, and repre- sents a posterior intertransverse muscle. It arises from the fore and upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein; and in contact with the posterior are the obliquus superior and the vertebral artery. To the imier side lie the anterior primjuy branch of the first cervical nerve and the rectus anticus minor muscle. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in inclining the head laterally. Dissection. For the purjaose of tracing backw-ards the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, divide the rectus lateralis muscle, observing the oft'set to it ; then cut ofi" the end of the transverse process of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to brmg into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCH OF THE EIRST CERVICAL or SUB- OCCIPITAL NERVE is rather smaller than the posterior, and arises from the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. From that spot it is directed forwards above the transverse process, and on the inner side of the vertebral artery, to the interval between the rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor muscles. Emerging here it bends down in front of the transverse process of the atlas and forms a loop with the second cervical nerve. As the nerve passes forwaixls it supplies the rectus lateralis and anticus minor inuscles, and branches connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal, tuid sympa- thetic nerves. Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic nerve con- I