228 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. together witli the position of the anterior commissure Avill be appa- rent. geniculate Cuts may also be made into the geniculate bodies to show the ' grey nu.clei within them, imdmesen- Finally, by dividing transversely the left half of the mid-braiu cephalon. through the superior quadrigeminal body, there Avill be seen the gi'ey matter of that eminence, the crusta and tegmentum separated by the substantia nigi'a, the red nucleus of the tegmentxmi, and the grey matter of the Sylvian aqueduct. Prepare cerebellum. Parts to be separated from, one another. Form and position of cerebellum. Division into two. No groove on the upper surface ; halves joined by upper worin. Horizontal fissure. A hollow below, which is called valley, Section V. THE CEEEBELLTJM. Dissection. The cerebellum (fig. 59, b) is to be separated from the remains of the cerebrum by caiTying the knife through the optic thalamus, so that the small brain, the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata may remain united together. Any remaining pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median groove on the under surface; and the different bodies in that hollow are to be separated from one another. Lastly, the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a deep sulcus at the circumference, which is continued from the crus, between the upper and imder surfaces. The CEREBELLUM or small brain (fig. 68) is oval in shape, and flattened from above do'wn. Its longest diameter, which is directed transversely, measiures about foiu- inches. This jmrt of the en cephalon is situate in the posterior fossa of the base of the skuU, beneath the tentoriiun cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incom- pletely divided into two hemispheres ; the division being marked by a wide median groove along the imder surface, and by a notch at the posterior border into which the falx cerebelli projects. The narrower part uniting the two hemispheres is known as the worm (vermis). Upper surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre, and sloped towards the sides. There is not any median sulcus on tliis siuface ; and the hemispheres are united by a central constricted part—the superior vermiform process. Separat- ing the upjDer from the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which extends from the crus cerebelli in front to the median notch behind. The UNDER SURFACE of the cerebellum is convex on each side, where it is received into the lower fossae of the occipital bone ; and the hemispheres are sej^arated by a median hollow—vallecula (fig. 68), which is widest in front where it lodges the upper end of the medulla oblongata : the hinder end of the vallecula is continued into the notch at the posterior border, and receives the fabc