DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. U8 use. Aortic opou- iiig: size and position; valve. Sinuses of Valsalva. Use. Position of apertui-es of arteries, and of auricles. Structure of tlie heart. Directions. Fibrous bauds fonii rings aronml auri- culo-ventri- cular !ind arterial openings. While the hhjod i« entering the cavity, the cusps of the valve are separated ; and when the venti-icle contracts, they meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In coml)ination with the tricuspid it assists in producing the first sound of the heart. The openiny of the aorta, anterior to that of the auricle, is closi- to the septum. This aperture is round, and rather smaller than that of the pulmonary arterj^, moasurijig slightly less than an inch in diameter. It is situate behind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. In its interior is a valve of three semilunar or sigmoid flaps, which are thicker and stronger than the corresponding parts in the jml- nionary artery, l)ut have a like structure and attachment. The projection in the centi'e of each valve, the corpus Arantii, is bettei- marked. 0])posite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the pulmonary aitery, though in a greater degree, and forms a hollow on the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The apertures of the coronary arteries are placed in two of these sinuses. Like the A'alves in the pulmonary artery, these meet in the middle to prevent the blood passing back into the ventricle, and comlaine vnth. them in causing the second sound of the heart. Position of the ventricular aijertures. Two openmgs have been seen ill eacli ventricle,— one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the ai'teries (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together; but of the two, the jmbnonary artery is anterior and more to the left, as well as somewhat higher. The aperture of communication Avith each auricle is nearer the circumference of the heart, and is posterior to the arteiy issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is nearest of all to the back of the heart. Structure. The heart is comjDOsed chiefly of muscular fibres, together Avith certain fibrous rings and a fibro-cartilage. The structure may be studied in the heart of the sheep or ox, in wliich the muscular substance has been hardened, and the connective tissue destroyed by boiling, so as to alloAv^ of the fibres being sepa- rated. The description of the structiu'e of the heart may be omitted Ijy the student till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auiiculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected Avitli those openings. The a^iriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral A-alves; and the hand surrounding the left auriculo-ventricular opening is blended in iVont Avith the aortic ring. The arterial rings siirround the aortic and pulmonary orifices; and the margin of each toAvards the artery forms three notches with intervening projections. The notches are occupied l>y thinner ]iarts of the arterial wall bounding the sinuses of Valsalva; and to the concave edges the sigmoid flaps of the A'alve are attached.