298 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. and arches. Ulriar nervo in the hand divides into deep and superficial pai-ts. Digital nerves are two. Median nerve sup- lilies mus- cles and digits. Branch to muscles. Five digital neiTes. First two, third, fourth, fifth. On the sides linger and the sheath of the tendons; and twigs are supplied to the plialangeal articulations I'roni small arterial arches on the hones— an arch being close above each joint. On the dorswn of the last phalanx is a plexus from which the nail-pulp is supplied. Palmar part of the ulnar nerve (fig. 87,The ulnar nerve divides, on or near the amiular ligament, into a superficial and a deep part. The dee}] X)art accompanies the deep branch of the aitery to the muscles, and will be dissected with that vessel (fig. 88). The superficial 2Mrt furnishes an oflTset to the palmaris brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of the hand, and ends in tAVo digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next. Digital nerves (-). The more internal nerve is undivided, like the corresj)onding ai'tery. The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of theii- opposed sides : in the palm of the hand this branch is connected Avith an oflset (^) of the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nei-ve. Palmar part of the median nerve (fig. 87, '■'). As soon as the median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament it becomes enlarged and somcAvhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal parts for the supplj'- of digital nerves to the thumb and the remaining two fingers and a half; the outer part also furnishes a small muscular branch to the ball of the tliiuub. The branches of the nerve are covered by the fascia and the superficial palmar arch; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The branch to muscles of the thumb {^) suj)plies the outermost part of the flexor brevis, the abductor, and the opponens pollicis muscles. b. The digital nerves (^) are five in number. Thi'ee of them, which are distributed to the sides of the thiimb, and to the radial side of the fore finger, are undiAdded, and come from the external of the two pieces into Avhich the trmik of the median splits. The other two spring from the iimer piece of the nerve, and are bifurcated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. The first tioo nerves belong to the thumb, one on each side, and the outer one communicates with a branch of the radial nei've. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth furnishes a nerA^e to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth also divides into tAvo branches, Avliich are distributed to the opposed sides of the middle and ring lingers : it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. On the fingers. On tlie sides of tlie fingers the nerves are snper-