296 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Palmaris b|pvis is 11 imtuuuouH iimsclo. Use. Piilmar liiscia. Its central l)art ends in a X)iece for each, finger, and in tlie skin. Dissection. Deep ending of the pieces of fascia. Transverse ligament of the fingers. Sheath of the tendons The PALMARis BREVis (fig. 87, h) Ls a small flat muscle, about am inch and a half wide, the fibres of which are collected into 8ei:)arate bundles. It arisen from the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed transversely to their insertion into the skin at tlie inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar vessek and nerve. After it has been examined it may be thrown inwards with Fig. 86.* the skin. Action. It draws outwards and wrinkles the skin of the inner side of the palm. The PALMAR FASCIA or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts ; but tlie lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require a special notice. The central j)art is a strong, white layer, which is pointed at the wrist, but expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Abo\'e, the fascia receives the tendon of the pahnaris longus, and is con- nected to the annular ligament ; and below, it ends in four processes, which are continued downwards, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the pieces from one another some transverse- fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbri- calis muscle and the digital vessels and nerve appearing at this sjDot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are prolonged to the integuments near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. To foUoAV one of the digital pro- cesses of the fascia to its termination, the super- ficial fibres being first removed, it may be divided longitudinally by inserting the knife beneath it oj)posite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the jjrocesses. Each process of the fascia sends back- wards an offset on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the deep ligament connecting together the heads of the metacaii>al bones, and to the edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distance. The superficial transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous band, Avhich stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is contained in the fold of skin, forming the rudiment of a web between them. tinned onwards to their terminations. Sheath of the flexor tendons (fig. 86). Along each finger the Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are con- * The tendons and short muscles of one finger, witli t]ic slieath of the flexor tendons, a. Extensor tendon, witli interosseous (b) and lumbrical (o) muscles joining it. d. Tendon of flexor sublimis passing into its sheath, the thicker parts of whicli are marked c and/.