DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. has n branch to mylo-hyoid musclo. Great meningeal artery ends in sltull, hut gives branch to tympanum. to meatus, to dura mater. Braneli with lingual nerve. Branches of second part are— to the temporal muscle ; to the masseter to the cheek : to pterygoid muscles. Branches of third part: of the ramus, along with the dental nerve ; it supplies the teeth, and ends in the lower part of the face (p. 91). As the artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small mylo-hyoid branch to the muscle of that name ; this is conducted by a groove on the inner surface of the l)one, in company with a Ijranch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of its muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The great meningeal artery is the largest branch of tlie internal maxillary, and arises opposite the preceduig. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle, and between the roots of the auriculo- temporal nerve to the foramen sj)inosum of the sphenoid bone, through which it passes into the skull. Its course and distribution within the cranial cavity have been already seen (p. 15). Before the artery reaches the foramen, it usually furnishes the following small branches; but one or more of them may arise directly from the internal maxillary trmik :— a. The tym])anic branch passes into the tympanum through the Glaserian fissure, and is distributed to the tympanic membrane and parts within the cavity. h. A deep auricular branch arises with the former or separately, enters the meatus through the cartilage, or between this and the bone, and ramifies in the meatus and on the tympanic membrane. c. The small meningeal branch begins near the skull, and courses through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillaiy nerve ; it ramifies in the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dental artery or the internal maxillary trunk, and accompanying the lingual nerve, ends in the cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches from the second part of the arterj'- (between the temporal and external pterygoid) are distributed to the temporal, masseter, buccinator, and pterygoid muscles. The deep teraporal arteries are two in number, anterior and pos- terior, and ascend on the side of the skull beneath the temporal muscle. The posterior anastomoses Avith the middle temporal branch of the superficial temporal artery ; the anterior commmii- cates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery (p. 45). The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle, and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the deep surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and descends beneath the insertion of the temporal muscle with its com- panion nerve : it is distributed to the buccinator muscle and other structures of the cheek, joining branches of the facial artery. The 2}terygoid branches are uncertain in their laosition and number; whether derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter the two pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise from the artery in the spheno-maxillary