DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Open tlic kidney, and (ileau tlio vessels. llenal substance divided into cortical and jiyramidal. Pyi'amids: num'ber; apex ends in papilla; Fig. 162.' liase. Extent of cortical substance; colour; consistence. Fibrous coat sends in odsets. Dissection. To see the interior it will he necesnary to cut tlirough the kidney from the inner to the outer border, and to I'cuiove the loose tissue from the vessels, and from the divisions of the excretory duct. Tlie sinus containing the blood-vessel snow comes completely into view. The interior of the kidney (fig. 162) is seen on a section to consist of an external gnanular or cortical portion, and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre. The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi; d) are from eight to eighteen in number, but generally more than twelve. The apex of each mass, Avhich is free from cor- tical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla (c). In it are the openings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in numl^er, some being situate in a central depression, and others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divisions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Oc- casionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. The base is emljedded in the cor- tical substance, and from it slender processes are continued into the cortical covering. The cut surface of the pyramid has a striated appearance, owing to the arrangement of the uriniferous tubules composing it, and the blood-vessels. If the mass is compressed in a fresh kidney, urine Avill exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical part (fig. 162, e) forms about three-fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends prolongations between them nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way beneath the finger. In the injected kidney red points (Malijighian bodies) are scattered through the cortex, giving it a granular appearance. The kidney has a fibrous tunic or capsule, Avhich is connected to the glandular substance by fine processes and vessels, and is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the kidney it sinks into the sinus, Avhere it sends processes on the enter- ing vessels, and becomes continuous with the outer coat of the excretory duct. * Section through a ijiece of the kidney, showing the medullary and coi-tical portions, and the beginning of the ureter (Henle). a. Ureter, b. Pelvis of the ureter, c. Calyx of the excretory tube. d. Pyramids, c. Cortical portion of the kidney.