102 DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OP NECK. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Parts in this section. Position of head. Dissection of the stylo- pharyngeus, and glosso- pliaryngeal nerve. Stylo- pharyngeus. Origin. Insertion. Is between carotid arteries. Use. Stylo-hyoid ligament lies by side of iireced- ing. Intenial carotid artery. Part already seen. In this Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and some cranial and sympathetic nerves. Position. The position of the part is to remain as before, viz., the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissection. To see the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscle should be de- tached from their origin and thrown dowii. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it througli where the hypoglossal nerve crosses it, and by dividing those branches of it that have been already examined ; any veins accom- panying the arteries are to be taken away. While cleaning the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, and the stylo-hyoid ligament are also to be prepared. The side of the jaw is to be drawn forwards on the face. The STYLO-PHARYNGEUS MUSCLE (fig. 23,^) resembles the other styloid muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from the root of the styloid process on the inner side, and descend between the su^perior and middle constrictors to be inserted partly into the wall of the pharynx, and partly into the upper and liinder borders of the thjToid cartilage. The muscle lies below the stylo-glossiis, and between the carotid arteries ; and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve turns over the lower end of its fleshy belly. Action. It raises the pharynx, and tends to dilate the part of the cavity above the hyoid bone. From its attachment to the thyroid cartilage it will assist in elevating and drawing backwards the larynx. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, which extends from the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the hyoid bone. Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and over the internal carotid artery ; wliile the lower end is placed beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To its posterior border, the middle constrictor nuiscle is attached below. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or occasionally in all its extent. Sometimes a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY suppUes the deep parts of the head, viz., the brain, the contents of the orbit, and the nose; and takes a circuitous course through and along the base of the skull before it ends in branches to the cerebrvim. The arterial trunk in the cranium, and its offset to the orbit, have been akeady learnt; but the portions in the neck and the temporal