STRUCTURE OF MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 197 the median jjlane to the restiforiu bodj'-, to which this name has been given. The superficial arciform fibres (fig. 58, s) luive already superflciul, been noticed in the description of the exterior of the meduUa oblongata (p. 194). The deep arciform fibres (h) are more numerous, and deep, mid are seen over the Avhole area of transverse sections except in the pyramid. Some of them come to the surface on the inner side of, and through the olivary body, and join the super- ficial set. Others are deep in their whole extent, and pass outwards into the restiform body, and to the nuclei of the cmieate and slender fimiculi. Internally, the arciform fibres enter the raphe, through which they are continued to the opposite half of the medulla. There they are thought to become longitudinal, but of their farther course nothing certain is known. The ra2)he (fig. 58, between h and I) occupies the median plane Raphe, of the medulla oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids, and consists of fibres running obKquely, longitudinally, and from before backwards, which are in part continuous with the superficial and deep arciform fibres, and in part spring from the nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Formatio reticularis. In the dorsal portion of the medulla Reticular oblongata, behind the pyramid and olivary body (fig. 58, I and k), foruiatiou. the longitudinal fibres derived from the anterior and lateral columns of the cord, decussating with the deep arciform fibres, give rise to a structure that is kno^vn as the reticular formation of the medulla. In the i^art of the reticular formation behind the olivary body (/<;) iaterspersed grey matter containing nerve-cells is also present. Olivary hody (fig. 58, f). On removing a thin slice from the Olivary olivary body, it will be seen to consist of three parts, viz., an external investment of white substance, a tliin grey layer—the olivary nucleus, and a central white core. The outer white layer consists mainly of transverse fibres, which belong to the superficial arciform group. The olivary nucleus or corpus dentatum is a thin plaited capsule its nucleus, or bag, having a zigzag outline in section. Towards the surface and behind it is closed, but on the inner side it is open, forming a narrow neck, which is turned towards the raphe, and gives passage to the olivary peduncle. The central white matter fills the grey capsule, and is formed by the spreading out of a tract of white fibres called the olivary and peduncle, Avhich passes inwards through the opening in the nucleus i"^'^^'^™cle. to the raph^. The fibres of tlie peduncle partly terminate in the cells of the corpus dentatum, and are partly continued through the grey layer to join the arciform fibres. Grey matter of the medulla oblongata. The larger part of the grey Grey matter matter in the medulla is a continuation of that of the cord, but of"iedulia there are in addition some smaller independent masses. Prolonrjation of grey matter of the spinal cord. At the lower end prolonged of the medulla oblongata the central grey matter resembles that in the spinal cord (fig. 129), but as it extends upwanb it undergoes the following changes :—