DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 390 oontinun- tion below, and Rbove. Dissection. Splenius has two parts : one to the neck; the otliev to the head; relations. Use of splenius capitis, splenius colli. Fourth layer of muscles. Dissection of com- plexus. Define off- sets from the erector spintp. muscles. It is continuous IdcIow witli the tendon of the serratuH posticus inferior, and through this with the superficial layer of the fascia lumborum ; Init above, it passes l^eneatli the upper serratus^ and blends with the deep intermuscular fascia of the neck, Tlie strongest fibres of the membrane are directed transversely. * .Dissection. The upper serratus is to be c\it through, and the- vertebral aponeurosis taken away ; and the part of tlie splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. In turning outward.s^ the fleshy part of the serratus, slender twigs of the intercostal nerves^ which perforate the external interco.stal muscle accompanied by small artei'ies, may be found entering its slips. The SPLENIUS MUSCLE (fig. 120) is flat and elongated. Single at its origin, it is divided above into two parts, one passing to the head— splenius capitis, and the other to the neck—splenius colli. ' It arises from the upper six dorsal and the seventh cervical spines, and from the ligamentum niichaj as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fibres are directed upwards and outwards to their insertion. The splenius colli (c) is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- terior transverse processes of the uj)per \\\o or three cervical vertebra? with, but behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula. The splenius capitis (b), much the larger, is inserted into the ajjex and hinder border of the mastoid jn-ocess, and into the outer third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. This muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, an([ the serratus sxiperior; and the insertion into the skull is beneath the sterno-mastoid. The complexus muscle appears above the ui^per border of the splenius caj)itis. Action. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head directly back ; and one will incline and rotate the head to the same side. The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical vertebrte ; but one muscle wiU turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process- of the atlas, * Fourth Layer op Muscles, In this layer are included tlie erector spinse, with its divisions and accessory miiscles to the neck, and the complexus. Most of the vessels and nerves of the back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection (fig, 121). To lay bare the complexus muscle in tlie neck, the sjilenius must be detached from the spinous processes, ami thrown outwards. And while the erector spina; is being displayed in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two prolongations from it to the cervical vertebra; and the head are to be defined by the dissector of the neck:—One, a tliin narrow muscle, the cervicaUa ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs from the outer piece of the erector (ilio-costalis), and is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger offset of the inner piece of the erector (longw-