CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Section I. THE FEONT OF THE THIGH. Directions. Position of the body. Objects on the surface. Limits of the thigh above. Hollow of Scarpa's space. Groove over femoral artery. Position of great trochanter. Head of the femur. All the parts described in Section I (to p. 631) are to be examined before the time for turning the body arrives. Position. During the dissection of the front of the thigh the body lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower ]xm\> should be supported in a half-bent position by a stool beneath the foot, and should be rotated outwards to make evident a hollow at the top of the thigh. Surface-marking. Before any of the integument is removed from the limb, the student is to observe the chief eminences and hollows on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in front, by the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the pubis. On the outer side, thi^ separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip- bone, which subsides behind in the sacrum and coccyx. Internally is the projection of the pubis, from which the bony margin of the subpubic arch may be traced backwards, forming the inner boundary of the limb, to the ischial tuberosity. On the anterior aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's liga- ment, is a slight hollow, corresponding with the triangular space of Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained ; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral artery beneath. The position of the arterial trunk may be ascertained by a line from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine to the inner condyle of the femur. At the outer side of the hip, from three to four inches below and behind the anterior part of the iHac crest, the well-marked projec- tion of the great trochanter of the femur will be recognised. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, while the thumb of one hand is placed in the hoUow below Poupart's ligament, or the fiiigei-s behind the great trochanter.