PNEUMO-GASTRIC NEEVE. 357 Branches. Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the Somo o(l- nerve to the pleura and pericardium. Internal mammary artery. A small part of this artery, which internal lies beneath the first rib, and winds round the phrenic nerve and l"ter?^*'^^ the iimominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be seen. It gives the following offset :— The mverior phrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a very gives -1 • 1 i 1 1 • J 1.1 T phrenic slender artery, which accompames the phrenic nerve to the clia- branch, phragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomosing therein with the phrenic artery from the aorta (p. 528), and with the mus- culo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary (p. 259). The PNEUMO-GASTRIC or VAGUS NERVE passes through the thorax vagus to the abdomen. In the lower part of the thorax the right and left nerves have a similar position, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the two nerves have different rela- tions. Each supplies branches to the viscera,, viz., to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and the gullet. The right vagvs enters the thorax between the subclavian artery Right vagus and the innominate vein, and is directed obliquely backwards, by of iung,°°* the side of the trachea, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From and on the plexus two large offsets are continued to the back of the gullet, oesophagus, and unite below into one trunk, which reaches the posterior surface of tlie stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of the left Left nerve common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and oflung""* beneath the root of the lung, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonary plexus one or two branches and on pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the ^sopha"a3 right nerve in a plexus ; but the pieces are collected finally into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the gullet to the anterior part of the stomach. The tranches of the pneimio-gastric nerve seen in the thorax are Branches the following :— '~ a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recurrent side on a level with the subclavian artery, and on the left at the ^'^'"y^seal. lower border of the arch of the aorta, bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. h. Cardiac brandies (thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches fur- Cardiac nished by the vagus in the neck, other offsets pass in front of the ^'""^^^^^ trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from the trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are sup- plied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each lower ccrvi- vagus nerve (p. Hi) may be now seen. The branch of the right Sndu''**' nerve lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac