SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF PENIS. 439 near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high as the umbilicus. The circumflex iliac branch lies below the level of Poupart's liga- ment, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. The companion veins to these arteries join the internal saphenous Veins, vein of the thigh. The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE GROIN are three or four in num- ^.^8^'^'^'*^ ber, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed ° ' between the strata of the superficial fascia ; and receive lymjjhatics from the abdominal wall, from the gluteal region and perineum, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh, and from the super- ficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass down- ducts enter iil)cloincn wards to the saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. Dissection. After the examination of the superficial fascia with its Dissection vessels and nerves, the student may prepare the cutaneous coverings of peni's'and of the penis and scrotum. The skin should be divided along the testicle, doi-sum of the jienis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings op the penis and scrotum. The penis ^^^s^""^"^ is attached to the front of the pelvis by a suspensory ligament, and illg^of penis is provided with a tegu.mentary covering continuous with that of the ^yi^jjjj^'^^f^^ abdomen, but devoid of fat. Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way :—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the prejpuce ; it is fomis afterwards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous mem- brane of the iirethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans and behind the aj)erture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular fold, frcenum prceputii. frsenum. Where the skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with Sebaceous that part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided with papUlee, ° and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glandulce odoriferm. In the scrotum the two layers of the superficial fascia of the groin Teguments become united in a thin membrane of a reddish colour. The prolongation aroimd the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouches, coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and front of the Muscular perineum contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the ft^cla! corrugation of the skin is owing. This contractile structure is named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By removing all the fatty tissue from the root of the Dissection penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament aulnorves. will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be partly laid bare, are to be followed forwards to the glans. The suspensory lirjament of the penis is a band of fibrous tissue, Suspensory