FEMORAL HERNIA. 463 toneal fat, The peritoneuvi lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall, Peritoneal whence it is prolonged withont interruption into the iliac fossa and the pelvis ; and its thinness and weakness are apparent now it is detached. The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer beneath the Subperi- peritoneum, but is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of the abdomen, Avhere the iliac vessels -pass under Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the iipper opening of the membranous sheath around the vessels, and covers the ^ space of the crural ring internal to the vein. The part of this layer which stretches over the crural ring is forms sep- and a lymphatic gland IS turn crurale. Sheath on femoral vessels. named the septum crurale (Cloquet) ; generally attached to its under surface. The transversalis fascia has been before noticed (p. 450). At Transver- Poupart's ligament it joins the iliac fascia outside the situation of ^^^^^ fascia, the external iliac artery ; but internal to that spot it is continued downwards to the thigh in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath. The iliac fascia covers the ilio-psoas nuiscle, and lies beneath the iliac fascia, iliac vessels. A-t Poupart's ligament it joins the trans- Fig. 143.* versalis fascia external to the iliac vessels ; but be- hind the vessels it is pro- longed into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the fasciae lining the ab- domen. Its anterior half is continuous with the transversalis fascia, and its posterior is derived from the iliac fascia and the pubic fascia of tlie thigh. The sheath is not entirely filled by the vessels, for a space (crural canal) exists on the inner side of the vein, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The aperture leadino- into the crural canal is called the crural ring. ° The crural ring (fig. 143, d) is referred to also in the dissection Crural ring: of the thigh, but its boundaries are better seen in the abdomen. It is an interval at the base of the sheath, to the inner side of the femoral vein, which is about half an inch wide, and is filled by a * View of the parts concerned in femoral hernia. (R. Quain.) Muscles JiC. : A. Uiaciis covered by the iliac fascia, b. Rectus, c. Transversalis! covered by the transversalis fascia, d. Crural ring. k. Gimbernat's liga- ment. Vessels: a. External iliac artery, b. Iliac vein. c. Epigastl-ic artery, d. Circumflex iliac, c. Obturator, with its nerve. /. Anastomosis between the pubic branches of the obturator and epigastric arteries.