672 dissectiojx of 'J'he foot. divides into tend (ins for fOHl' to(!S ; inseitinn; relations : and use. Abductor of the little toe : origin and insertion : relations ; use as abductor and flexor. Dissect the next mus- cular layer, and plantar vessels ainl iicrvefi. Two plantar arteries: inner and outer. Internal sniall; course and endiii},' Branches to muscloK toes, where tlicy are inserti'd into the middle jilialauge.s. In the slieath of the toe the tendon of this muscle lies at tirst (in this position of the foot) on the long flexor; opposite the centre of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit foi' the passage of the other, and it is attached Ly two proce.sses to tlie sides of tlie middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia, and occupies the middle of the foot. It conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Action. It bends the fi.r.st and second phalangeal joints of tlji; four snraller toes, like the Hexor sublimis in the upper limb, and approximates the toes at same time. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DioiTi (fig. 206, c) has a wide wigin behind from the small outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the adjacent part of the inner tubercle, and from the plantar fascia and the external in- termuscular se]3tum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inscrteil into the outer side of the base of the metatai-sal phalanx of the little toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the loot, and conceal.^ the flexor accessorius, and the tendon of the j^eroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerves. Sometime.^ a part of the muscle is fixed into the projection of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Action. Though it can abduct the little toe from the others, as Ihe name signifies, its chief nse is to bend the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Dissection. To bring into view the second layer of muscles and the plantar vessels and nei-ves, the muscles already examined must be reflected (fig. 207). Cut through the flexor perforatus at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it. Dividing the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek its nerve and vessel close to the calcaneum. The abdu.ctor hallucis can be drawn aside if it i.-; necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Next, the internal plantar vessels and nerve are to be foUoAved forwards to their termination, and backAvards to their origin ; and the external plantar vessels and nerve, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory mufscle, and the small lumbricales, should be freed from fat. The PLA^^TAl^ Arteries (fig. 207) are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial trunk, and supply digital oftsets to the toes. They are two in number, and are named external and interna] from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two, the i;xtei'nal is the larger, and forms the plantar arch. The INTERNAL ARTERY («) is inconsiderable in size, and accom- panies the internal plantar nerve, under cover of the abductor hallucis, as far as the middle of the foot, where it ends in four super- ficial digital branches. (Illustrations of Dissections, p. 437.) Branches. The artery furnishes muscular branches, like the nerve, to the abductor hallucis, Hexor perforatus, and the flexor brevis