737 MUSCLES OF THE OSSICLES. Fis. 234.* Mdscles op the ossicles (fig. 234). Two muscles are connected with the chain of bones, one being attached to the malleus, the other to the stapes. The TENSOR TYMPANi (fig. 234, h) is the larger of the two mus- cles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of its containing tube, which must be laid open to see it completely. The muscle arises in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and the posterior extremity of the great wing of the .sphenoid bone, and it also receives fibres from the surface of its bony canal. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon which is reflected over the end of the cochleariform pro- cess, and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the malleus near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the membrane of the tjTupanum ; and as the long process of the incus is moved inwards with the malleus, the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra ovalis. The STAPEDIUS (fig. 234, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arising inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small tendon, which issues at the apex of the pyramid, and is inserted into the back of the head of the stapes. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards, the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminishing the pressure on the fl.uid in the vestibule ; and supposing it to con- tract simultaneously with the tensor, it would prevent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous MEMBRANE OP THE TYMPANUM tlie tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall; it is continuous with that of the pharynx througli the Eustacliian tube, and is pro- longed into the mastoid cells through the antrum. It forms part of the membrana tyjnpani, and of the secondary mem- brane in the fenestra rotunda ; it is reflected also over the chain of bones, the muscles, ligaments, and chorda tympani nerve. In the tympanum the membrane is thin, not very vascular, and secretes a Two muscles to the ossicles. Tensor tym- pani: insertion; use. Stapedius contained in pyramid; use. The mucous lining of Lining of tympanum an-ange- ment in cavity; in Eusta- chian tube. * Plan of the ossicles of the tympanum in position, with their muscles, a. Cavity of the tympanum, b. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. (/. Malleus, e. liicns. /. Stapes, ff. Laxator tympani muscle, sometimes de- .scribed. h. Tensor tympani. i. Stapedius. 3 B