C 0 LATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE. 38? of fibres, whicli forms a median partition between the muscles of the two sides of the neck, is sent forwards to be attached to the external occipital crest and the other cervical spines. *The LATISSIMUS DORSi (fig. 119, b) is the widest muscle of the Latissimus back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its attachment to the sj)ine and oiigin from pelvis. It arises along the middle line from the spinous processes of spme, the six lower dorsal, all tlie lumbar, and the uj^per sacral vertebrae, as well as from the suj)raspinous ligament. On the outer side it arises i^elvis, from the posterior half of the outer edge of the iliac crest by its aponeurosis, and from the lowest three or four ribs by as many fleshy and ribs; processes, which interdigitate with slij)s of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And in many bodies it receives another fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. The fibres are directed outwards and upwards, converging rapidly ; and the muscle, much reduced in breadth, turns rotuid the lower border of the teres major, to be inserted by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital insertion groove of the humerus (p. 256). The muscle is superficial, except at the upper and inner part, relations • where it is covered to a small extent by the trapezius. Farther out there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid and infra- spinatus muscles appear. The lower or outer border overlaps the edge of the external oblique muscle in the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest. The aponeurosis of the latissimus is in its lower part incorporated in the posterior layer of the fascia lumborvim, of which it forms the chief constituent. Action. If the arm is hanging loose, the muscle can move it use, behind the back, rotating it in at the same time. If the limb is n,a™i3 free raised, the latissimus, combining with the large pectoral and teres muscles, will depress the humerus. Supposing the arm fixed, the latissimus assists the jDectoralis major and fixed, in drawing the moveable trunk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. * Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway Dissection between the spines of the vertebrae and the angle of the scapula, StissSs. and the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising ' the inner half of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either the thin lower serratus, with which it is united, or the aponeurosis continued upwards from the serratus. In the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest the latissimus is adherent to the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and should not be detached from it. * Parts covered hy the latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the Parts be. erector spinae, the sen-atus posticus inferior, the lower ribs with their "fmS^''*''*" intercostal muscles, and the lower angle of the scapula, Avith parts of the rhomboideus major, infraspinatus, and teres major muscles. Nearer the humerus it turns round the teres major, and is placed in front of that muscle at its insertion. In passing from the chest to the arm, the latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla., Dissection of fascia lumbonmi. After the latissimus dorsi has been Dissection