DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Two cii- timenus braiiclu's. llio-liypo- Kasti-ic: course in abdoiiieii. Jlio-iiiguiiial iirises witli ]ireco(linj;, and aceom- ]ianies it. tji;iuto- cmral jiierces jisoas, spermatic cord, the fore and inner parts of the thigli, and the inner side of the leg. The first two branches (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the buttock, the lower part of the abdomen, and the scrotum. a. The ilio-hypogastric branch (fig. 167,/) is derived, from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of tlie psoas muscle, near the upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by piercing the transversalis muscle. Its termination in the integuments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hj^iogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 450). b. The ilio-inguinal branch (</) arises with the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses out- wards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the iliac crest, where it pierces the transversalis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution to the scrotum and the groin, are before noticed (p. 450). f. The genito-crural nerve (h) is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop between the first two : issuing from the iiiid divides into genital and erimil l>rancli. Coiu'se of external cutaneous front of the psoas, it descends on the surface of the muscle, and divides into the two following pieces. Sometimes tlie nerve is divided in the psoas, and the pieces perforate the muscle separately. The genital branch descends on the external iliac artery, and furnishes ofi'sets around it: it passes from the abdomen ■v^dth the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh (p. 603). d. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh (i) arises from the loop between the second and third nerves, and apjoears about the middle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the interval between the anterior iliac spinous processes, to tlie tliigli. and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, to be dis- tributed on the outer aspect of the limb (p. 603). e. The anterior crural nerve (k) is the largest ofi'set of the plexus^ and supplies branches mainly to the extensor muscles of the knee- joint, and to the integuments of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg. Taking origin from the second, third and foiu-th nerves, this large trunk appears towards the loAver part of the psoas, where it Hes between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from tlie rts branches fi^^domen beneath Poupart's ligament ; but before the final branching in the thigh (p. 622), the nerve sends ofl' the following twigs :— Some small branches to the iliacus are furnished from the outer side of the nerve. A branch to the femoral artery, the place of origin of Avhich varies much, is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. /. The obturator nerve (n) is distributed chiefly to the adductor Origin ol' anterior crural; position in the abdomen to iliacus, to femoral artery. Obturator