324 DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. Dissection. Form of joint-sur- faces. One synovial cavity for the carpal ■bones, and some meta- carpals. Kinds of motion. Flexion. Extension. Metacarpal bones joined at bases. with synovial joints, and at heads. Carpal and metacarpal joints. That of the thumb. Motion : bending Dissection. After the division of the lateral and posterior ligaments, tlie one row of bones may be separated far enough from the other to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Articular surfaces. The three bones of the first row, viz., scaphoid (a), semilunar (6), and pyramidal (c), together form an arch with its concavity turned downwards, while externally the scaphoid presents a convexity to the second row. The lower articular sur- face has a corresponding form, the os magnum and unciform making up a condyloid projection which is received into the arch of the first row, and the trapezium and trapezoid forming a slight hollow for the convexity of the scaphoid bone. One synovial sac serves for the articulation of all the carpal ])ones, except the pisiform with the pyramidal. The cavity extends trans- versely between the two rows of the carpus, and is continued upwards and downwards between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes open into the cavity of the wrist-joint; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and. may be continued to all, or only to some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpal with their cai-jial bones. Movements. Owing to the irregular shape of the articular surfaces, only forward and backward movements are permitted in the trans- verse carpal joint. Flexion. As the hand is brought forwards the lower row of carpal bones moves backwards, and the posterior ligament is tightened. This motion is brought into play in full bending of the wist. Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. As the lower carpal row moves towards the palm, its progress is checked by the anterior ligament of the joint, and by the strong flexor tendons. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the four fingers are connected at their bases by the following liga- ments :—A dorsal (fig. 99) and palmar (fig. 96) fasciculus of fibras passes transversely from each bone to the next; and the bands in the palm are the strongest. Besides these, there is a short interosse- ous ligament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. Where the metacarpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage; and between the articular surfaces there are prolongations of the synovial cavity serving for their articulation ydth the carpus. At their distal ends the same four metacarpal bones are connected by the transverse ligament, which was seen in the dissection of the hand (p. 304). Union of the Metacarpal and Carpal Bones. The meta- carpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carjial bones after one plan ; but the bone of the thumb has a separate joint. The metacarpal bone of tlie thumb articulates with the trapezium; and the ends of the bones are encased in a capsular ligament (fig. 96,^), which is lined by a simple synovial membrane. The thumb-joint possesses angular movement in opposite direc- tions, with opposition and circumduction, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed, the metacarpal