711 METATARSO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS. au offset of the cominon synovial cavity belonging to tlie articula- tion of the navicular with the cuneiform bones (p. 708) : prolonga- tions from it extend between the lateral articular faces of the second, thii'd, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Artimlar surfaces. The osseous surfaces are not flat; for the Form of metatarsal bones are imdulating, and the tarsal are iineven to fit boJ^es. into the others. Movement. From the wedge-shaped form of the metatarsal bones, Motion from only a slight movement from above down is obtainable ; and this is ' greatest in the little toe and the next. In the little toe there is an abductory and adductory motion ; and with abduc- a small degree of the same exists in the fourth toe. adduction. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been taken away, separate the the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus may be seen i^teros°eous by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and ligaments, from the cuboid, the latter bone from the navicular, and the bases of the metatarsals from one another. The dissector will find that, in using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the ligaments. Metatabsus with phalanges. These are condyloid joints, in Union of which the head of the metatarsal bone is received into the cavity ISfd^pha-^^ of the phalanx. langes, by Each articulation has an inferior and two lateral ligaments, as in two lateral the hand; and the joint is farther strengthened above by an ex-ami'inferior: I)ansion derived from the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A synovial distinct synovial sac exists in each joint. In the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones, which are connected with the inferior ligament. All these structures are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct ; and their anatomy is more fully described with the dissection of that part. (See page 326.) Surfaces of hone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, which Form of is longest from above down, and reaches farthest on the plantar surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shajped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint, as in the hand, there is angular Kind of motion in foiir different directions, with circumduction. motion. Flexion and extension. When the joint is bent, the phalanx passes Bending under the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is extended, the phalanx moves back beyond a straight liae with the metatarsal bone. V A limit to flexion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the state of stretching of the upper part of the lateral ligaments, and by the ^^^aments: extensor tendon ; and to extension, by the tightness of the inferior, and the lower part of each lateral ligament, and by the flexor tendons. Lateral movement. The phalanx passes from side to side across lateral the end of the metatarsal bone. Its motion is checked by the lateral "^"^^^^ ' ligament of the side from which it moved, and by the contact with the other digits. Circumduction, or the revolving of the phalanx over the rounded circular