DURA MATER. Section II. INTERNAL TARTS OF THE HEAD. Dissection. The skull is now to be opened, but before sawing Dissection the bone the dissector should detach, on the right side, the temporal °j\\<'" muscle nearl}-- do\\Ti to the zygoma, without separating the over- lying fascia; and all the remaining soft parts are to be divided by an incision carried aromid the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the forehead, and as low as the protuberance of the occipital bone behind. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision Precautions through the soft parts, but the saw is to cut only through the thTOugh"tiie outer table of the bone. The inner table is to be broken through with bone, a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skuUcajD is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the fingers between the cut surfaces in front, and the dura mater will then come into view. The DURA MATER is the most external of the membranes in- Dura mater, vesting the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, which serves as an internal periosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now the bone is Appearance separated from it, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes ; g^u-face^' hwt these are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attacliment of the dura mater to the bone is more intimate. Eami- fying on the exposed part of the membrane are branches of the large meningeal vessels. Small granular masses, Pacchionian bodies, are also seen close to Pacchionian the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable ; they are but seldom foimd before the third year, but generally after the seventh, and they increase with age. The surface of the skull is frequently indented by these bodies. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the interior of the dura Cut through mater, divide this membrane with scissors close to the margin of the skull, except in the middle line before and behind, where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be . raised on the right side towards the top of the head ; and the veins connecting it with the brain may be broken through. The inner surface of the dura mater is free and smooth, being inner , separated from the arachnoid, the second of the coverings of the brain, by the cavity known as the subdural space, although the two membranes are in the natural condition closely applied to one another. The fibrous tissue of which the dura mater is composed is and struc- so arranged a.s to give rise to two strata, an external which adheres to the bones, and an internal wliich is lined by an epithelium similar to that on serous membranes. At certain spots these layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for