548 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. I'clatioiis with pnrts around : .soiiietimes iimeh <li lilted. Bladder is in pelvis when empty, and projects ahove when full. Axis. Position in l)elvis varies witli age. Apex has three cords from it. Basse: ]iarts ill contact with it. Surfaces : inlorior, .s\i)ierior from the tip of the coccyx to the anus: at first it is dilated, but al the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani and external spliincter muscles. In front of the extremity of the rectum are the prostate, the memln-anous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the cor]ms spon- giosiun urethras; but as the gut recedes from the urethra there is an angular interval left between the two. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling ; and the sphincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes the end of the intestine within the anus is very much enlarged, especially in women and old men ; and in that condition in the male it rises up on each side of the jn'ostate. The URINARY BLADDER (vesica urinaria; fig. 170, a) is the receptacle for the urine, and is situate in the fore part of the pelvis. When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and lies against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when distended it becomes rather egg-shajjed, with the larger part towards the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall. In distension during life it is slightly cui'ved forwards over the pubic bones, and 23rojects above them ; and if its axis were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall anteriorly a variable distance (according to the distension) above the pubic symphysis, and the lower end of the sacrum posteriorly. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early life as in the adult. For in the child this viscus rises much above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the part near the neck is elongated. But in the adrdt the bladder is for the most j)art contained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base j)rojects backwards. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (pp. 545 and 547). The relations of the moderately full bladder are as follows :— The summit or apex is rounded, and from it three ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus ; the central one of these is the urachus ; and the two lateral are the obliterated hy|3ogasti"ic arteries. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The lase or fundus is large, and rests against the middle jiiece of the rectum. Connected with the fundus are the vesiculse seminales and the vasa defei'entia; and between these is a triangular space, from which the peritoneum is mostly absent. The lu-eter opens into the upper -part of the base on each side. Surfaces of the body. The inferior or pubic surface of the body is in contact with the pubic bones and anterior true ligaments, as well as with the abdominal wall if the bladder is very full, and is altogether free from peritoneum. The s^Lperior or abdominal surface is entirely covered by the serous membrane, and has the small intestine and