DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. G58 checks to movement. Lateral movement motion of the head : state of the ligaments. Dislocation in lateral movements. Circxim- dnction. Botation inwards, and out- wards. Examine attachment of muscles. Ill extension the strong ilio-fenioral ligament (the inner Ijand especially) is tightened, and stops the movement. Flexion is not naturally arrested by the ligaments of the joint, Init by the meeting of the soft parts of the tliigh and abdomen. In abduction and adduction the femur is removed from, or Vjrouj'ht towards, the middle line of the body. Of the two, abduction Is the more extensive, because the limb may soon meet its fellow wlien it is moved inwards, though, if it is can-ied in front of the other, adduction is considerable. In both states the head moves in the opposite direction to the shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and a great part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum; and when the limb is raised to its iitmost, the ujiper edge of the neck meets the edge of the acetabulum, so as to pievent farthei- motion. As the limb descends and approaches the other, the head rises into the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the pubo-femoral ligament and lower part of the capsule are tightened over the j)rojecting head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the iUo-femoral ligament is rendered tense and arrests the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity sendng as the fulcrara on which the femur can be lifted out of the hollow. In circumduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take place in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, the base of Avhich is at its extremity, and apex at the centre of the head of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shonlder-joint. There are two kinds of rotation, internal and external ; in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur rolls backwards hori- zontally across the acetabulum, the great trochanter being put forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line internal to it, which passes from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior haK of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation out, the head of the bone rolls forwards across tlie cotyloid cavity, and the great trochanter is brought backAvarils. The outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is tightened and checks the movement. Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the muscles in the thigh are to be examined more minutely before the dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not lie removed from the femur, but about two inches of each should be left for after study.