151 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. Fig. 38.^ resembles " a slipper turned upside down " (Zaglas). This stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. The GENio-GLOssus (fig. 38, a) enters the tongue vertically by the side of the septum, and perforates the cortical covering to end in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to base, aiul are collected into transverse laraina3 as they pass through the transversalis. The hindmost fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is pro- longed fi'om them, beneath the hyo-glossus, to the upper con- strictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage wiU show the radiation of its fibres. The PHARTNGEO-GLOSSUS, or the fibres of the upper constrictor at- tached to the side of the tongue, passes beneath the fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles are four in number in each half of the tongue, viz., transversalis, a superior and an inferior lingualis, and a set of perpendicular fibres. Dissection. To complete the preparation of the inferior lingualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in front, and those of the hyo-glossus over it behind are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, a) may be shown on the left side, by taking the thin mucous membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper surface the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface the inferior lingualis and the genio-glossus, after the former mxiscle has been examined. The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a fresh specimen will be required to follow them satisfactorily. The TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE (fig. 38, c) forms a horizontal layer in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their insertion into the submucous tissue at the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into flattened bundles, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio- glossus, Genio- glossus in the tongue ; its posterior fibres. - Constrictor in the tongue. Intrinsic muscles. First show inferior, then supe- rior lin- gualis, then trans- versalis. Trace the nerves. Transver- salis is hori- zontal. Attach- ments. Fibres in laminre. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles Use. * Transverse section of the tongue. A. Genio-glossus. b. Septum linguae. 0. Transversalis. d. Inferior lingualis. (After Zaglas.)