EEMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 11 longitudinal sinus; raise anil tlirow backwards the falx, but leave it uncut behind. Gently lift up the frontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of the lar>^e brain. Next cut through the internal carotid Anterior O ^ vessels UlKl artery and the second and third nerves, which then appear, together nerves, with some veins descending from the brain ; the large second nerve is placed on the imier, and the roimd third nerve on the outer side of the ai-tery. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centi-e of the sphenoid bone. A strong horizontal process of next the the diu-a mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view at the back of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision thimigh the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath : the follo^\•ing nerves, which will be then visible, are to be divided in succession. Near the iimer margin of the tentorium is the fifth posterior nerve, consisting of a large and small root ; while nearer tlie ^^^'''^^ ^^^'^ middle line of the skull is the slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, are the seventh and eighth nerves entering the iirtenial auditory meatus, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the foregoing are the ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves in one line :—of these the upper small piece is the ninth or the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the tenth or pneumo-gastric ; and the long round nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the eleventh or spinal acces- sory. The remaining nerve nearer the middle line is the tweKth, "which consists of two small pieces. After dividiug the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, and they M-ind round the medulla oblongata. Lastly, cut across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of the spinal lastly, the nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing the first two fingers of the right hand in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may be taken readily from the skull in the left hand. In doing tliis some large veins, passing from the hinder part of the cerebral hemisphere to the attached margin of the tentorium, will be broken through, as well as small ones from the portions of the brain in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. Preservation of the brain. After removing some of the mem- How to prc- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures through Sn.^^'^ them on the under surface, the brain may be immersed in spirit to harden it. Wrap the brain up in a piece of calico, and then place it upside down in a suitable vessel, on the bottom of which some cotton-wool or tow has been spread, and let it be quite covered with spirit. Examination of the brain. At the end of two or three days the Examina- dissector should exanane the other memlDranes and the vessels". As ^'""^ °^ soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed from the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves at the under surface. The brain may