VENTRICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. 351 The principal groups of fibres that have been distinguished may be Chief sets: arrau<'ed as follows ; but it must be understood that they are to a "i-eat extent intermixed, and that bundles frequently pass from one set into another. ((. The external oblique fibres (fig. 107/) begin at the base of external the ventricltis, where most of them spring from the auri'culo-ventri- cular and arterial fibrous rings, and descend with the spiral course above described to the apex of the heart. On the posterior surface they pass without interruption from the left to the right ventricle ; but in front the fibres crossing the right ventricle in part dip in at the interventricular groove to the septum, while those continued to the left ventricle are joined by others which issue from the septum along the furrow. At the apex of the heart they form a sharp twist, known as the vortex or lohorl, and sink in to become deep and ascend tow^ards the base as the innermost layer of the left ventricle, and internal Some of them are continued to the base and join the auriculo- ive^ne'l^"'^^ ventricular and aortic rings ; but others enter tlie papillary muscles, ■which are thus formed. 6. The transverse or annular fibres (fig. 107,^) are partly special to annular; the left ventricle, and partly common to the two ventricles. Some of them appear to form simple rings round the cavities, but a great many pass from this into the oblique system of fibres. c. The looped fibres of the left ventricle spring from the fibrous looped of rings at the base, and passing downwards in the ventricular wall, enter the lower part of the septum, in which they ascend to the central fibro-cartilage. d. Similar looped fibres pass from the outer wall of the right and of right ventricle through the septum to the fibro-cartilage. ventricle^ e. The figure of 8 fibres pass from the front of the right venti'icle fisureof s through the septum to the back of the left, and from the front of the ^ left to the back of the right, the two sets decussating in the septum. Endocardium. Lining tlie interior of the cavities of the heart is a i-i"iiig thin membrane, which is named endocardium. It is continuous on "rthe lu;art. the one hand with the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. Where the membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from a ventricle to an artery, it forms dujilicatures in which fibrous tissue is enclosed, thus giving rise to the valves ; and in the ventricles it covers the tendinous cords, and the project- ing muscular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the ventricles, and in the left than in the right half of the heart. Great Vessels. The arteries which take origin from the heart Vessels are the aorta and the pulmonary trunk. The large veins entering i°eart ° the heart, besides the coronary sinus, are the superior and inferior cavse, and the j)ulinonary. The PULMOXARY ARTERY is a short thick trunk, which conveys Tiio puln^o- the (lark blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From ""''^ '"'^'"'^ its commencement in the riglit ventricle the vessel is directed up- wards and backwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of divides into an inch and a half or two inches, it divides into two branches for lungf'^^'