DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 Trace vessels and nerves. Divide the rest of the nmsc'le to see its insertion. Tendon of insertion of pectoralis. Parts covered by the muscle. Small pec- toral muscle, Origin from rihs. Insertion into cora- coid process, Eelations. Use. Dissection of axillary sheath and costo-co- racoid fascia. Costo-cora- At tliis stage the cephalic vein is to he defined as it crosses iii- Avards to the axilhxiy vein. A hranch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acromio-thoracic vessels, which perforate the sheath around the axillary trunks, are to be followed to the pectoral muscle. The remaining part of the pectoralis major may he cut about its centre, and the pieces thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat coming into view is to be removed ; and the tendon of the pectoralis is to be followed to the humerus. Insertion of the pectoralis. The tendon of the pectoralis consists of two layers, anterior and posterior, at its attachment to the bone ;— the anterior receives the clavicular and tipper sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior give- attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a haK wide, and sends upwards one ex- pansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and another downwards to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered by the fedoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the j)ectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and on the biceps and coraco-brachiah.< muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOR (fig. V3, b) is also triangular in shape, and extends from the thorax to the shoulder. It arises from the third, fourth and fifth ribs, immediately external to their cartilage.«, by tendinous slips which are blended with the aponeuroses covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the coracoid process of the scapula, at its upper and inner part. This muscle assists the pectoralis major in forming the anterior wall of the axilla, and near its insertion it lies over the large vessels and the accompanyiiig nerves. The upper border is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic vessels lie. The tendon of insertion is imited with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. Action. It draws the scapxila forwards and dowTiwards ; aud in laborious breathing it becomes an inspiratory muscle, taking its fixed point at the shoulder. Dissection. Supposing the clo,vicle raised by pressing backwards the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the vessels Avill be demonstrated by making a transverse cut below the costo- coracoid membrane (fig. 73), so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. Then, by dividing the membrane itself near the clavicle and raising the lower border cf the subcla-vdus, this muscle will be seen to be encased by fascia, which is attiiched to the bone both before and beliiird it. The costo-coracoicl mcmhranc or ligament (fig. 73) is a firm