DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. m Tn feiiialo louiKl \ijia- inont is in pluce of cord. Dissection. Constitu- inits of tlie cord. Vessel in female. Vas defe- rens : eituation and course. Artery and nerve of tlie coverings of tlie cord; and cuta- neous. Dissection of deep arch and of the vessels in tlie wall of abdomen. Deep crural arch : iittacli- racnts. spermatic fascia from tlie external oLlique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The round ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies llie inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integmnents of the groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, ex- cept that it wants the cremaster. Dissection. The constituents of the cord will be disjtlayed by cutting through longitudinally, and turning aside the different sur- roimding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric artery into the cremasteric covering. Vessels and nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and veins, which convey the blood to and from the testicle, the nerves and lymphatics of the testicle, and the vas deferens or the efferent duct. In the female a branch from the ovarian artery enters the round ligament. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is placed behind the other constituents of the cord ; it will be recog- nised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen through the opening in the transversalis fascia (internal ring), it lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it Ijegins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from the epi- gastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The genital branch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord by the internal abdo- minal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the integuments covering the cord from the stiperficial pudic artery and the ilio- inguinal nerve. Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubis, and raising it towards the internal abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear: it jDasses inwards to the pubis, and is to be defined with some care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal T>^aU, viz., the epigastiic and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal mammary arterj'-, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary arteries will be found on raising the outer edge of the i-ectus, one above and the other below, ramifying in the muscle. The ejjigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by removing the transversalis fascia from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deep crural arch. Below the level of Poupart's ligament is a thin band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has re- ceived the name deep crural arch from its position and resemblance to the superficial crural arch (Poupart's ligament). Tliis fasciculus of fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged