DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 of vessels. Nerves nro from vagus. Eecurrent nerve supplies intrinsic muscles exoent one. Superior laryngeal nerve joins recur- rent, and ends in mucous membrane. Arteries: suiierior laryngeal from superior thyroid.; inferior laiyngeal from inferior thyroid; from crico- thjToid artery. Veins. Lymphatics, An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to Ijo dissected at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior Laryngeal branches of the pncumo-gastric (p. 110) ; the fonuer i.s distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter mostly to tlie muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recuiTent), when about to enter the larynx, furnishes backwards an offset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx; this joins filaments of the upper laryngeal. The nerve passes finally beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles of the larynx, exce])t the crico-thyroid. Its small muscular branches are mostly superfi- cial, but that to the arytenoid muscle lies beneath the posterior crico-arytenoid. Beneath the thyi'oid cartilage the inferior is joined by a long offset of the upper larjaigeal nerve. The sujjerior laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it fiu:- nishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate ■\\T.th the recurrent nerve. The trunk terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane :—Some of these ascend in the aryteno-eiDiglottidean fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the sacculus, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the true vocal cords. One branch of this set pierces the arytenoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. Vessels. The arteries of the larynx are furnished from the supe- rior and inferior thyroid branches (pp. 79 and 70). The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters the larynx with the suj)erior laryngeal nerve, and divides into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane from the root of the tongue to the vocal cord. Like the nerves, the two laryngeal arteries communicate both beneath the ala of the thyi'oid cartilage, and in the mncous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx. Some other twigs from the crico-thjroid branch of the svjperior thyroid aiiery perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and ramify in the mucous lining of the interior of the larjoix at the lower pai-t. Laryngeal veins. The vein accompanying the branch of the supe- rior thyroid artery joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein (p. 79) ; and the vein with the artery from the inferior thjToid opens into the plexus of the inferior thyroid veins (p. 119). The hjm])hatics of the larjmx pass to the deep cer-\dcal glands.