822 DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. rxteiision ; abduction ; nddnction; circumduc- tion. Lower cmls of radius and ulua joined by capsule, triangular til)ro-carti- liige: attach- ments, and rela- tioiLs. Synovial membrane. Fiones arc joined into two rows. behind, stretching the posteiior ligament. In extenwion the hand is carried backwards, and the row of cari)al bones moves in tlie opposite direction, viz., from behind forwards, so as to cause the anterior ligament to be tightened. The backward movement is not so free as the forward. Abduction and adduction. The hand is carried transversely out- Avards in the former, and inwards in the latter movement; and the extent of movement is greater towards the ulnar than the radial side. The lateral ligaments are put on the stretch, the irmer in abduction and the outer in adduction ; and the motion is limited on the outer side by the meeting of the styloid, process of the radius with the scaphoid bone. CircumdAiction. The hand describes a cone in this movement, the apex being at the wrist and the base at the digits ; and it moves more freely in extension and adduction than in the opposite directions. Lower radio-ulnar articulation. In this articulation the head of the ulna is received, into the sigmoid cavity of the radius ; —an arrangement just the opposite to that between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong iibro- cartilage; but a kind of capsule, consisting of scattered fibres, stm'ounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triarigular fibro-cartilage (fig. 97, c) is placed transversely below the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and. apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid j)rocess of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that projec- tion. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior liga- ments of the wrist-joint; and its sur- faces enter into different joints, viz., the wrist, and the lower radio-ulnar. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. Occasionally it is pei-forated by an aperture. The synovial membrane is very loose, and ascends between the radius and the ulna : it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The motion in this articulation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 320). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus (except the pisiform) are united into two rows by small dorsal, palmar, and interosseous bands; and the two roAvs are connected together by wide separate ligaments. Fig. 97. * Lower ends of the forearm bones with the uniting fibro-cartilage. a. Radius, b. Ulna. c. Triangular fibro-cartilage.