517 ANATOMY OF THE TESTICLE. Blood-vessels. Niuneroxis arteries ave furnished to the suprarenal Aitci-ies. body from the aorta and from the diaphragmatio and renal arteries. Their small branches penetrate the organ at many spots of its cir- cumference. The vei7is are for the most part collected into one veins, hirge trunk, which issues by the hilum, and opens on the right side into the vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the vena cava. Ne)-ves. The nerves are very numerous and large, and come from Nerves, the solar plexus. Lymphatics are superficial and deep ; and both join those of the Lyini)ha- I > 1 t/lCS* kidney. THE TESTICLE. The testicles (testes) are the glandular organs for the secretion of Testes the semen. Each is suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cord scrotimi.' -and its coverings (p. 451), but the left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A s^erous sac partly surrounds each organ. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the serous covering of To see tin the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make a small aperture into it at the upper part, and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned; and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaginalis (fig. 163, ci) is a serous bag, which is con- Tunica tinuous in the foetus with tlie peritoneal lining of the abdomen, but ^^sma''-'' becomes subsequently a distinct sac through the obliteration of the part connecting the two (p. 451). It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes ; partly for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped by tes^^cle^'^^ it. The sac, liowever, is larger than is necessary for covering the and lines testicle, and projects some distance above it. Like other serous scrotum: membranes, it has an external rougli, and an internal smooth sur- lace ; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. To •examine its disposition, the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, except visceral posteriorly where the vessels lie. On the outer side it extends P*'"*' farther back than on the inner, and invests the greater part of the epididymis, forming a pouch (digital fossa) between that body and the testicle. The parietal part of the sac (tunica vaginalis scroti) is more and pai'ietal. ■lixtensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the con- tiguous layer of the scrotum. B'orm, and position of the testis (fig. 163). The testicle is oval in Testicle shape, with a smooth surface, and is somewhat compressed from side ' to side. The anterior margin is convex and free ; the posterior, margins, which is flattened, is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves, Stretching like an arch along the outer side is the epididymis (6). Epididymis. Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body (c) two or