CORPUS STRIATUM. 221 tliroiigh the foramen of Monro ; and behind is a passage beneath the posterior commissure into the fourth ventricle, which is named atpieduct of Sylvius. In the floor, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibuluni, where the cavity at an early period of fcctal lite was prolonged into the pituitary body. Tlie ei )endvma linin"- the ventricle is continued into the neigh- "jps of bouring cavities through the difl'erent apertures ot communication, and its epithelium is continued over the choroid plexuses in the roof. Gi-ey matter of the ventricle. A stratum of grey matter forms the ^^^^^g"'"**®'^' lower part of the wall of the ventricle. Portions of this layer ventricle, appearing at the base of the brain constitute tlie posterior perforated space, the tuber cinereuin and the lamina cinerea. It also extends into the corpus albicans, forming the nucleus of that body. At the fore part of each optic thalamus it covers the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the soft commissure (d). The coi-piis striatum (fig. 63, e) is the large grey body which has Corpus been seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. The grey matter composing it is incompletely divided into two masses—caudate and structure. lenticular nuclei, by a layer of white fibres, named the internal cajmile; and it has received its name from the striated appearance of this layer. Dissection. To show the composition of the corpus striatum, the Dissection, upper part of that body and of the optic thalamus should be sliced off on the right side, until a view resembling that in fig. 66 is obtained. The superficial anatomy of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus may be studied on the left side. The caudate or intraventricular nucleus (fig. 65, a) is a long pyriform Caudate mass of reddish-grey substance which projects into the lateral shows in ventricle. Its larger extremity or head (fig. 66, cn) is turned ^g^^^^^jg forwards, and fomis the floor of the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The middle tapering portion is directed backwards and outwards, along the outer side of the optic thalamus, beneath the body of the ventricle, and ends in the tail (fig. 66, cn), which bends downwards and is prolonged in the roof of the descending cornu of the cavity, nearly to its anterior extremity. Numerous veins run over the Veins on surface of the caudate nucleus, and they may be seen to join a larger vessel (vein of the corpus striatum) which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and ojDtic thalamus. Tlie lenticidar or extraventricular nucleus (fig. 66, In) is entirely Lenticular .sun ounded by Avhite matter, and is jilaced opposite the bottom of oniyTeen^ in the fissure of Sylvius and the insula (i) of the exterior of the hemi- sections; sphere. It ap])ears lens-shaped in horizontal section, but triangular, with the Ijase turned outwards, when cut transversely. Internally, it is separated from the caudate nucleus and optic tlialamus by the surroundecl internal capsule ; and externally and below, it is bounded by a ^wuie.'' thinner white layer named the external ca^mde (ec). . Hha internal capside (fig. 66) is a thick layer of white fibres, wliich internal is seen in tlie horizontal section to form a bend—genu (icg), oppo.site ' "P^"^'-"'