FLEXOR CARri RADIALIS. 287 boundary of tlie triangular space in its inner border Fig. 84.* Use on radius and elbow. Radial flexo7- of the wrist. The muscle is superficial except at the insertion, where it is riolation.s, covered by the radial artery, and some of the outer set of muscles, viz., supinator longus, and radial extensors of the wrist. The pronator forms the inner front of the elbow; and touches the flexor cai-pi radialis. By gently separating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on the brachialis anticus, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the iilnar ai-tery and the median nerve : the second %/~'^c small head of origin intervenes between the artery and nerve. Action. The pronator assists in bringing forwards the radius over the nlna, so as to pronate the hand. When the radius is fixed, the muscle raises that bone towards the humerus, bending the elbow-joint. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (fig. 84, "') takes its origin from the common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the intermuscular septnm on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fi.bres about the middle of the forearm, passes through a groove in the trapezium, in a special sheath at the outer side of the anterior annular ligament, to be inseiied mainly into the base of the meta^ 1HB^II'ffl#il!9;lfr carpal bone of the index finger, and by a slip into that of the middle finger (p. 306). The muscle rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitomm ; but near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus pollicis, — a muscle of the deep group. As low as the middle of the forearm the flexor carpi radialis corresponds externally with the pronator %^^S^^MM-v^ teres, and below that Avith the radial artery, to which its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is in contact at first with the palmaris longus muscle, and for about two inches above the wrist, A^dth the median nen'e. V\ Action. The hand being free, the muscle first flexes the wrist-joint, incKning the hand somewhat to the radial side ; and it will assist m bringing forwards the lower end of the radius hi pronation. Still continuing to contract, it bends the elbow. * Superficial view of the forearm. (Quain's '"Arteries.") 1. Radial artery w)th Its nerve outside. 2. Ulnar artery and nerve. 3. Pronator teres. 4. K exor oarj,! radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Plexor sublimis digitorum. /. i-lexorcarpiulnaris. 8. Supinator longus. 9. Biceps The muscle is super- ficial ; is the guide to radial artery. Use on wrist and radius.