484 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. are of large size, and interlace in a flense flattened mass, without any and ending, interspersed ganglia. Below, the plexus divides into two portions, riglit and left, which are continued downwards on the inner side of internal iliac vessels to the pelvic jjlexuses. EEIiATIONS OF AORTA AND VENA CAVA, Dissection of aorta, and vena cava. Aorta lies on front of .spine: parts nroimd. Vena cava iuferior; extent; relations; is by the side of the aorta, except above. Arteries crossing it; and vein. Before the viscera are removed from the body, the relations of the abdominal aorta and vena cava may be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, it wUl be necessary to detach the great onientmn from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epi]:)loic arteries along the great curvature ; and after raising the stomach, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial trunk (coeliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be quite cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed up as far as the liver, where it disappears. The relations of its upper end can be better observed after the dissection of the vessels of the liver. The AORTA enters the abdomen between the pillars of the dia- phragm, and divides into the common iliac arteries opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. At its beginning the vessel lies somewhat to the left of the middle line; and it conmionly inclines slightl}-- inwards as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta is covered at first by the pancreas, then by the third part of the duodenum, and for a short distance below by the peritoneum. Beneath the pancreas it is crossed by the splenic vein above the superior mesenteric artery, and by the left renal vein below that vessel; and the solar and aortic plexuses of the sympathetic lie along its anterior surface throughout. It rests on the lumbar vertebrae, with the pillars of the diaphragm embracing it at the begirming. To its right side is the vena cava. For its relation to other deep parts, see p. 527. The INFERIOR VENA CAVA begins opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra by the urrion of the comcmon iliac veins, arrd reaches thence to the heart. The venous trurrk is placed on the front of the vertebral column, to the right of the aorta. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same viscera as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is iiicliaed away from the artery, and ascending in front of the diaphragm, is embedded in the back of the liver for about an inch and a half. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on.the right of, arrd higher than, the aortic operring. Its relations with vessels are not the same as those of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lurrrbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the kidney is the spermatic. Superficial to it beneath the pancreas is the bcgirrniirg of the portal vein.