DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 840 and appeiul- ages. Ventricles: right, and left. Dissect coronary vessels and nerves. and coro- nary sinus. Two ai-teries of the lieart, viz., I'ight coro- nary, tapering part known as the auricula/r ai^pendix or auricle proper, .so- called from its resemblance to a doe's ear. The ventricles reach unequal distances on the two asjiects of tlic heart ;—thus the right one forms the tliin right border and mo.st of the anterior surface ; Init the left enters alone into the apex, au<l constructs the lei't border, and the greater part of the posterior .sui- face of the heart. Dissection. Before opening the heart, the coronary arteries are to be dissected on the surface, >vith the veins and small nerves that accompany them. The two arteries appear on the sides of tin- pulmonary artery, and run in the grooves on the surface of tlji- heart, where they are surrounded by fat: one branches over tin- right, and the other over the left side. With each artery is a plexii.- of nerves, and that of the right side is to be followed npAvards to tin- superficial cardiac plexus. In the groove between the left auricle and ventricle the student will find the large coronary vein, j^assing at the back into tin- dilated coronary simis : the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. The CORONARY ARTERIES are the first branches of the aorta, ami supply the heart, one being distributed mainly on the right side, and the other on the left. The right artery appears on the right side of the pulmonai\ trunk, and is directed backwards in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, giving branches upwards and dowoiwards. are larger than the rest ; one runs on the anterior Two of these siu'face of the and left coronary anasto- moses. Cardiac veins. Coronary sinus ; extent; rieht ventricle near the free and the other veins ,]oin- ing it; valves. descends in the posterior interventricular furrow to the apex of the heart. A small branch is continued to the left side of the heart, lying in the hinder part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. The left artery passes outwards behind the ])ulmonary trunk to the left side of that A^essel, where it divides into two branches. Of these, the anterior is the larger, and descends on the front of the heart in the groove between the two ventricles to the aj)ex ; while the posterior runs backwards between the left amicle and A'entricle. The branches of the two coronaiy arteries communicate on the sm-face of the heart, but their anastomoses are very fine. The VEIKS OF THE HEART (fig. 103) differ in their arrangement from the arteries, and are for the most part collected into one large trunk—the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus (fig. 103,^) will be seen on raising the heart to be placed in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch usually in length, it is joined at the one end by the great cardiac vein (■') ; and at the other it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and at its right end it receives some branches Irom the back of the ventricles (+), and at its left extremity another small vein (-), the oblique vein (Mai'shall), which descends to it along the back of the left auricle. On slitting up the sinus with the scissors the openings of its