DISSECTION OF THE PEEINEUM. 430 Arteiy of bulb i"n till- triauguliir lignuu'iit: its situation varies. Ai'tcry ol' body of penis. Artery ol' dorsum of penis. Accessory pudic artery : source. Pudic veins. Dorsal nerve of the penis. Parts cut in lithotomy, in cuttin;; down to urethra, or more branches to the levator ani and sjihincter, and fine twig» through the ligament to the constrictor and the urethra. b. The artery of the bulb is a branch of considerable size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing almost transversely inwards between the fibres of the constrictor muscle, about half an inch from the base of the triangular ligament, the artery reaches the upper surface of the bulb, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to C'owper'* gland. The distance of this l^ranch from the base of the ligament will be influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perineal space. If the vessel arises earlier than usual, it may be altogether behind the ligament, and may cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation of lithotomy. c. The artery of the corpus cavernosum (c) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At first this vessel lies between the cms penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramifies in the cavernous structure of the penis (p. 577). d. The dorsal artery of the penis (h) is in direction the continua- tion of the pudic ; it runs upwards between the crus and the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 440. Accessory pudic artery. In some cases the pudic artery is not large enough to supply the branches above described to the penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will then be contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessory artery is the internal iliac (p. 559). The pudic veins, two in number, have frequent communications together, so as to form a plexus round the artery ; they receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them. The DORSAL NERVE OP THE PENIS has been seen in the ischio- rectal fossa (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perineum it takes a similar course to the pudic artery, but at a deeper level and in a distinct sheath, within the triangular ligament, and then pierces the superficial layer of that structure close to the inferior ramus of the pubis, to be continued with the dorsal artery to the penis. Its termination is described at p. 440. The nerv^e supplies filaments to the constrictor urethra) muscle. Parts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz., cutting down to the urethra, opening the canal, and sUtting the tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incision the knife i& entered near the middle line of the perineum, one inch m front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as midway between the ischial tuberosity and tlie anus. The .skm and fat, the transverse perineal muscle and artery, the inferior h.'cmorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying across the ischio-rectal fossa.