•208 DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. niiddlp, and inferior longi- tudinal. Ovliital sulcus and gyn. Olfactory sulcus. Parietal sulci arc intraparietal and post- central. Convolu- tions : ascending parietal, superi or parietal lobule, and inferior parietal Jobule, con- sisting of supra- iiiargiiial Tlie middle frontal convolutwn (mk) runs from the ascending frontal to the lower margin of the lobe, between tlie \\\)i)br and lower frontal sulci. Tlie inferior frontal convolution (if) is the smallest oi' all. S^jring- ing i'rom the lower end of the ascending frontal convolution, it arches round the ascending and anterior branches of the Sylvian fissure, and passes into the posterior orbital gyrus. Orbital lobule (fig. 61). The orbital lobule is subdivided by a Y or IT-shaped orbital sulcus (orb) into three convolutions, named internal (lo), anterior (ao), and posterior (po) orbital, which are the continuation respectively of the superior, middle, and ijiferinr frontal convolutions. On the internal orbital con^'olution is a longitudinal groove—olfactory sulcus (ol), for the recejsticjn of the olfactory lobe. Sulci and convolutions of the parietal lobe. In the pai-ietal lobe there are two named sulci; and four convolutions are dis- tinguished. The intra2Mrietal sulcus (ip) begins close to the jDosterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, about midway between the ujjturned extremity of this and the lower end of the furrow of Eolando. It first ascends, running nearly parallel to the lower half of the latter sulcus, and then is directed backwards to the hinder limit of the parietal lobe, wliere it often becomes continuous with the superior occipital sulcus. The upper part of the intraparietal furrow is frequently intennpted 1)y one or two cross gyri, H\\&postcentral sulcus (ptc) continues the dir-ection of the ascending stage of the intraparietal sulcus behind the upper half of the furrow of Rolando. It generally opens into the intraparietal sulcus at the spot where the latter changes its direction. The ascending parietal convolution (ap) is placed opj^osite the as- cending frontal, and like that is simple, and extends from the upper margin of the hemisphere to the jjosterior branch of the Syhdan fis- sure. In front of it is the fm-row of Rolando, round the ends of which it joins the ascending frontal convolution. Behind, it is luuited by the postcentral sulcus above, and the transverse j^art of the intra* jjarietal sulcus below. Parietal lobules. The larger portion of the parietal lobe behind the foreo'oin<x convolution is divided into two parietal lobules bv thfi longitudinal part of the intraparietal sulcus. The supierior ^wrietdl lobule (spl) is connected in front to the upper end of the ascending parietal convolution between the postcentral sulcus and the upper margin of the hemisphere, and behind to the upper occipital couv(V lution by a small winding gyrus -which is called the first aunectant convolution (below po). This lobule is divided into several secondary gyri. The inferior parietal lobule is again subdivided into two convolu- tions, but the separation between them is often very indistinct. The siipramarginal convolution (sm) is the anterior and larger of these : it springs in front from the lower end of the ascending parietal convolution, encircles the extremity of the posterior branch