DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. 212 Dentato gyrus. Form and structure of cnnvolu- tinus : grey cortical, and white medullary parts. Cortex com- posed of six layers of white and grey sub- stance alter- nately. Outline of cerebrum. Mediillai-y centre ; cortical and central grey masses ventricles. Cut down to smaller oval centre of the hemisphere. Reflect callosal con- volution. Repeat dis- section on right side. The larger oval centre is deeper. Corpus callosuni. hemisphere ends in a projecting notched margin, which is named fasrAa dentata or dentate convolution (fd). This will he hetter seen suhseqnently (p. 217). Structure of the convolutions. Each convolution is continuous with the general mass of the hemisphere on the one side (ba.s('), and is free on the other, where it presents a summit and lateral surfaces, which are covered hy ])ia mater. A cross section will sliow its con.stitution of a layer of cortical grey substance on the surface, which is continued at the bottom of the sulci from one eminence to another, and a wliite medullary part in the centre, which ajjpears as a process of the large medullary ma.ss foi'ming the greater part of tlie substance of the hemisjjhere. On examining closely the section of a convolution in a fresh sj)ecimen, tlie cortex may generally he .seen to consist of three grey, and as many thinner white, layers arranged alternately, the outermost being a thin white stratum, which is most marked over the fore part of the uncinate convolution. Interior of the Cerebrum. Eacli cerebral hemisphere consists of white and grey sulistance, the white forming the larger portion of the mass (medullary centre of the hemisphere), while the gi-ey matter is cliiefly disposed in a superficial layer (cortex) which covers the medullary centre, except over the region on the inner side whence the corpus callosum issues ; but at the lower part of the hemisphere there are other collections of grey matter more or less surrounded by the medullary substance. In each hemisphere is an elongated ca^dty, named the lateral ventricle, which conmiunicates with another median sjiace—the third ventricle, placed close to the base of the brain. The student will now proceed to exandne the parts in the interior of the hemisphere, carrying the dissection from above downwards. Dissection. Supposing both hemispheres entire, the left is to be cut off to the level of the calloso-marginal sulcus. When this has been done, the surface displays a white central mass of a semi-oval shaj^e (centrum ovale minus), sending processes into the convolu- tions, and suiTOunded by an irregular grey margin. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escapiug from the divided vessels. Next, the callosal convolution is to be divided about the middle, and the two pieces are to be thrown backwards and forwards. Oa its under surface will be seen a thin band of white fibres, the covered band of Eeil or fillet of tlie corpus callosum, which bends do^^^l before and behind the corpus callosum. A similar dissection is to be carried out on the opposite side ; and the hemisphere being removed to the level of the corpus callosum, the transverse fibres of that* body are to be defined as they radiate to the convolutions. Now a much larger white surface comes into view (centrum ovale majus), and the white masses in the two hemispheres are seen to be continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus callosum. The corfus callosum reaches from one lialf of the cerebrum to the other, and forms the roof of the lateral ventricle in each hemisphere.