161 MUCOUS MEMBEANE OF LARYNX. the male, and two lines less in the female. The mucous membrane of the true vocal cord is very thin, and intimately united to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament. The latter structure is the upper and liga- edge of the lateral portion of the crico-thyi-oid membrane, and " consists of fine elastic tissue, which sho^vs a slight thickening close to its attachment to the thyroid cartilage. On the outer surface of the ligament is the deep part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, some of the fibres of which lu-e inserted into the band ; and a thin sub- mucous layer of elastic tissue is continued outwards from it to line the ventricle of the larynx. The mucous membrane of the larynx is continued from that lining Mucous the phamyx, and is prolonged downwards into the trachea. At the onarynx.^ superior aperture of the larynx it forms the aryteno-epiglottidean fold on each side, between the margin of the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage : here it is very loose, and the submucous tissue abimdant. In the larynx the membrane lines the wall of the cavity closely, sinks into the ventricle, and sends a prolongation upwards into the laryngeal pouch. On the lower thyro-arytenoid ligaments it is very thin and closely adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the superior vocal cords, Epitheliuiu the epithelium is of the stratified squamous kind, and free from cilia. But a columnar ciliated epithelium covers the edges of the ^^^^ superior cords and the surface below these, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the lower cords : on the epiglottis the epithelium is ciliated in the lower half. Numerous racemose glands are comiected with the mucous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx ; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the true vocal cords, but close to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which moistens the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves and vessels. The termination of the laryngeal Dissection nerves may be dissected on the untouched side of the larynx. For °^ "^"^'^'^^ • this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticidated from the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies close behind the joint between the tAvo. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down with pins ; and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior inferior, laryngeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal nerve is to be found as it pierces superior the thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to ^''"'"^"S^'^i the mucous membrane of the larynx and pharynx. Two communica- tions are to be lookcid for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. M