561 SACRAL NEXIVES. The SUPERIOR HiEMORRHOiDAL ARTERY, the contimtation behind the rectum of the inferior mesenteric (p, 482), divides into two Xlidaf branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends in about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the anus ; they terminate oppo- j,, site the internal sphincter in anastomotic loops beneath the rnucous membrane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior hcemorrhoi- dal arteries. The MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY of the aorta (p. 527 ; tig. 172,'6) de- Middle scends along the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, Which' iias and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, oppo- lateral site each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral "ff^"^*^- arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the perios- teum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to take the place of the middle hsemorrhoidal artery. The middle sacral veins end in the left common iliac. Dissection (fig. 173). To dissect the nerves of the pelvis, on the Dissection right side, it will be necessary to detach the triangular ligament of ti\'epelves! with the urethra from the bone ; and to cut through, on the right side, the fore part of the recto-vesical fascia and levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended, let the air escape from it. By means of the foregoing dissection the sacral nerves may be first four found as they issue from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, and some branches from the third and foiu'th to the viscera. The last sacral and the coccy- last and geal nerve are of small size, and will be detected coming through the '^"^^yseai, coccygeus muscle, close to the coccyx : these are to be dissected with care; and the student will succeed best by tracing the connecting filaments which pass fi'om one to another, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is synipa- a large plexus of the sympathetic (iDelvic plexus), which sends branches to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in the previous dissection ; but if any of it remains, the student may trace the offsets distributed from it, and its communi- cating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral SrmAL Nerves (figs. 173 and 174). The anterior sacrai primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number, and Jierves are decrease rapidly in size from above downwards. Issuing by the apertures in the front' of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted), they receive short filaments of communication from the gangliatecl cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves and part of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the Jiexlis."**''^ coccyx. The coccygeal nerve, and the peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, will be noticed before the plexus is described. 0 0