77 EXTEENAL CAROTID ARTERY. the posterior surface of the styloid process near the base, and is inserted into the outer part of the body of the hyoid bone. insm-tion. The muscle has the same relations as the posterior beUy of Sunxnmds the digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon!° tendon°of that muscle. In some bodies the stylo-hyoid is absent. Action, This muscle elevates the hyoid bone in swallowing, and Use. with the posterior belly of the digastric, prevents the bone being carried forwards by the other elevators. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (twelfth cranial) appears in the anterior Tvreiftii ^^^^ triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks anterior round the occipital artery; it is then directed forwards to the tongue beneath the tendon of that muscle, and disappears in front under the mylo-hyoid. In this course the nerve passes over the two carotids ; and near the great cornu of the hyoid bone it also crosses the lingual artery. From this part arise the descending Branches: branch, and a small muscular offset to the tliyro-hyoid. The descending branch (ram. descendens noni) leaves the trunk one^to^hyoid of the h}T30glossal as it turns round the occipital artery, and descends on the front of, or more frequently within, the carotid sheath to below the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the ^Xjoi^^^^ communicating branches of the cervical nerves so as to form a single cal nerves, or double loop (ansa hypoglossi) with the concavity turned. upwards. The descending branch gives an offset to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and from the loop branches proceed to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, to the stemo-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles : sometimes another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 18, d) Springs from the External bifurcation of the common carotid at the npper border of the artery! thyroid cartilage, and furnishes branches to the neck, the face, and the outer part of the head. From the j)lace of origin it ascends in front of the mastoid pro- Extent, cess, and ends opposite the neck of the lower jaw in the internal maxillary and temporal branches. The artery lies at first in front Course and of the internal carotid, but it afterwards inclines somewhat back- wards and becomes superficial to that vessel. Its position would be marked with sufficient accuracy by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is overlaid by the sterno-mastoid. Parts sniier- and by the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz., ^'^^^^ *° the skin, and the superficial and deep fasciae with the platysma. But above the level of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and higher stiU it is concealed by the parotid gland. At its beginning the artery rests against the pharynx ; but above the angle of the beneath it, jaw it is placed over the styloid process and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, which separate it from the internal carotid. In front of the o.nd in front, upper part of the vessel are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo- maxillary ligament. Veins. There is not any companion vein with the external carotid, Veins in