496 DISSECTION OF THE A13D0MEN. the siilDinucous layer are removed from the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will he more perfectly seen. Sce*aro^pits ^^^^ ^^^^ ^ Surface of the mucous membrane, or alveoli; when well washed, may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or alveoli (fig. 152), which measure from ^Joth to ^-Joth of an inch across. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the stomach ; and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become iixegular. In the bottom of each dej)re6sion are the apertures their size, shape, and appear auce. Arteries; of minute tubular glands. veins : Ij'mphatics; and nerves. Blood-vessels. The arteries of the stomach are derived from the branches of the coeliac axis, and have been seen to form an arch along each curvatiu'e (p. 487). From these arches branches jDass to both surfaces of the stomach, and after supi^ljdng the muscular coat, divide in the submucous layer into minute vessels which enter the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins have a corresponding arrangement, and pass to the portal system (p. 490). Lymphatics. The lymphatic vessels proceeding from the stomach iTin "with the blood-vessels, and have a few small glands connected with them along the two curvatures. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sym- , pathetic (p. 492), and can be followed to the fibrous coat: small ganglia have been observed on them. SMALL INTESTINE. Cliaracters of duo- denum, of jejunum and ileum. Structure. The three portions into which the small intestine is divided, have the following characters :— The duodemcm is about ten inches long, and is more fixed than the rest of the intestinal tube. It is wider than either the jejunum or the ileum, and its muscular coat is also thicker. Into it the bile and pancreatic ducts pour their contents. The jejunum and the ileum together measure about twenty feet in length, and are. connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the termination of the one and the beginning of the other, but two-fifths of the length are assigned to the jejummi, and three-fifths to the ileum. Between the ends, how- ever, a marked difi'erence may be perceived ; for the upper part of the jejimum is thicker and more vascular than the lower end of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Structube. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the same number of layers as in the stomach, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. * Alveolar depressions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them. (Sprott Boyd.)