DISSECTION OF TIII£ PEEINEUM. 426 insertion by tliree imrts"; surrounds the urethra; use. voluntary and involun- tary. Transversus perinei: origin ; ends in central point; Accessory transverse muscle. A triangular space be- tween the three muscles; the knife may enter in litho- tomy. Perineal nerve lias cutaneous, muscular, and genital branches. Dissection of triangular ligament. lower surface of the triangular ligament. The anterior libivs, Avhich are the longest and best marked, are insei-ted into the penis on its outer aspect, in front of the erector ; and, according t<j Kobelt, they send a tendinous ex])ansion over the dorsal veHHclw of the jjenis. The intervening fibres turn round the uretlira, sur- rounding it for two inches, and join their fellows in a common tendon. The ejaculator muscle covers the bulb and the corpus sijongiusum for nearly three inches below and in front of the triangular liga- ment. If the muscle be cut through on the left side, and turned off the urethra, the junction Avith its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the urethra, and eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into tise at tlie end of the process, when the jDassage has to be cleared. The action is involuntary in the emission of the semen. The TRANSVERSUS PERINEI (fig. 133, c) is a small thin muscle, which lies across the perineimi opposite the base of the triangular ligament. Arising from the imier side of the ischial tuberosity at the fore part, it is inserted into the central point of the perineum Avith the muscle of the ojiposite side, and "with the sphincter ani and the ejaciQator urina3. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia curves round to join the triangular ligament. Action. From the direction of the filjres the muscle will di-aw backwards the central point of the perineum, and help to fix it jtre- l^aratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. Sometimes there is a second small fleshy sli^J in front of the transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws itself into the ejaculator muscle. The three muscles above described, when separated fi"om_ each other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- lator uriuse forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the transversus perinei the base. In the area of lliis interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the suiier- ficial perineal vessels and nerves. The knife entering the ])Ost€rior part of this space during the deeper incisions in the lateral ojiei-atiou of lithotomy will divide the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. The PERINEAL DIVISION OF THE PUDIC NERVE (p. 421) breaks up in the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa into superficial and deej> branches. Its two superficial oftsets have been followed to the scrotiun (p. 424). The deep branches are mwscufor to the fore parts of the external sphincter and levator ani, to the transversus ])erinei, erector penis, and ejacidator urinsQ, and the nerve to the hitlh, a long slender branch, which pierces the last muscle and, dividing nilo filaments, enters the hinder portion of the corpus spongiosum. Dissection (fig. 1 34). For the disjday of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the crus penis, Avhich are superficial to it, are to be detached on the left side in the following way ;—the ejaculator urinre