CHAPTER VI. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Cord is con- tained in spinal canal, invested by membranes. Dissection to show the cord and the membranes. Spinal meninges are three in number. Dura mater surrounds cord loosely; lower end- ing; size of sheath; connec- tions ; offsets on nerves ; The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) gives origin to the spinal nerves, and is lodged in the canal hounded hy the bodies and neural arches of the vertebrae. It is invested by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, which form sheaths around and support it. Dissection. After all the muscles have been taken from the arches and spines of the vertebrae, the spinal canal is to be opened by sawing throxigh the laminae on each side, close to the articular processes; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the sacrum, hwt not higher in the neck than the fourth cervical vertebra. As it is difficult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be found useful to complete the division of the neural arches. The twhe of the dura mater is covered by some veins and fat, and by a loose areolar tissue containing fluid sometimes, esj)eciaUy at the lower part. The fat may be scraped away with the handle of the scalpel; and the lateral prolongations of the membrane through the intervertebral foramina are to be defined. Membeanes of the Cord (fig. 125). Three membranes, like those on the brain, surroimd the cord, viz., an external tube of dura mater, an internal covering of pia mater, and an intermediate sheath of arachnoid. The DURA mater (a) is the strongest tube, and is continuous with the membrane lining the interior of the skull. It fonns a loose sheath (theca) along the spinal canal as far as the last lumbar vertebra ; and then tapering gradually it ends opposite the third piece of the sacrum in a slender impervious cord which is continued to the back of the coccyx (fig. 124, h). The capacity of the sheath greatly exceeds the dimensions of the cord ; and it is larger in the neck and loins than in the dorsal region. On the outer aspect the spinal dm\a mater is smooth, in com- parison with that in the skull, for it does not act as a periostemn to the bones. Between it and the wall of the canal are some ves.^els and fat; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrae by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dura mater sends offsets along the spinal nerves in the intervertebral foramina ; and these offsets become gradually longer below (fig. 124), where they form tubes which enclose the sacral nerves,