UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS, 613 wards over the pectineus muscle, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to end in the scrotum or labium pudendi, according to the sex : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The deep femoral branch or the profunda (fig. 192, -) is the Profunda: largest offset of the femoral artery, and arises from the outer side of that trunk from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament. Its origin, distribution is to the muscles of the thigh, and will be afterwards followed. In the present dissection it may be seen to lie over and position the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex artery jj^^^aie'^ ^ to the outer part of the thigh : and then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb.* Variation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to origin of Poupart's ligament until it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, profunda and reach the external iliac artery (one example, R. Quain). And the branch may recede fai-ther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement ; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise separately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed foui' inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of so large an ofi"set. Femoral vein (fig. 190, h). The principal vein of the limb, while Femoral in the triangular space, has-almost the same relative anatomy as the nrgtl^gj^^g artery : its position'to that vessel, however, is not the same through- the artery; out. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is sujDported on the pubis between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; but it soon winds beneath afterwards the artery, and is placed between the main trunk and its deep it- branch. In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a sliiall branch (i) with the inferior external pudic artery. DEEP PARTS OF THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. The muscles on the front of the thigh are to be learnt next: they Muscles on are the sartorius and the extensor of the knee; and at the top of *Jjg °' the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Four muscles are ° combined in the extensor, viz., rectus, crureus, vastus externus, and vastus internus. The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst vessels, the muscles and supplies them with branches; and a large nerve, jjei-ve the anterior crural, furnishes offsets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the limb is to be Take the retained in the same position as before, and the flaps of skin on the * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to the trunk above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal pieces into which it divides.