397 POSTERIOR CERVICAL VESSELS. cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes, after perforating the upper ones splenius, serratus superior, rhomboideus, and trapezius muscles, surface. The loivei' five or six are much smaller, and end in the multifidus spina). * In the loins. The posterior primary branches of the lumbar Lumbar nerves, five in number, appear between the erector and multifidus divided into spina). In their mode of dividing and general arrangement they two. resemble the lower doi-sal nerves, cutaneous ofi'sets being furnished by tlie external set of branches. * The external hranches pass to the erector spinse, and supply it j^^^^^^^^jj^^ and the intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector spinae, and become cutaneous after perforating the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum. The branch of the last nerve is connected ^^^^p*^*^^^'"^® with the corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an oflFset cutaneous, near the bones. * The internal branches are furnished to the multifidus spinee internal muscle. They are difficult to find, being contained in. grooves on branches, the upper articular processes. * Vessels in the back. The vessels now dissected are the Vessels, occipital and the deep cervical arteries, a small part of the vertebral, and the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries. The OCCIPITAL ARTERY (fig. 122, a) courses along the occipital Part of the bone. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is artery**^ directed backwards under the sterno-mastoid, the splenius, and usually the trachelo-mastoid, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Behind the insertion of the sterno-mastoid it becomes superficial, and ascends to the occiput, where it is dis- tributed (p. 6). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and gives the which following branch to the neck :— gives a The cervical branch (b) distributes twigs to the splenius and cervical trapezius, and j)assing beneath the complexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY (fig. 122, c) lies ou the neural arch of the Part of the atlas, behind the articulating process, and appears in the interval artery'^''^^ between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches are given to the surrounding muscles, and to anastomose with the contiguous arteries. The DEEP CERVICAL ARTERY (fig. 122, e) is a branch of the superior Deep cervil intercostal of the subclavian (p. 71). Passing back between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it ascends between the complexus and semispinalis muscles, as high as the upper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of tlie vertebral. * Tlie POSTERIOR BRANCHES OP THE INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES (p. 364) Dorsal pass back between the vertebrae and the ascending costo-transverse sjiit into '' ligament, and divide like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. The internal brandies end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus inner and