577 CORPUS SPONGIOSUM URETIIRiE. serve to noiirish as well as to minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the pudic ; the . chief branch {artery of the corpus cavernosum; j). 430) enters at the crus, and runs forwards through the middle of the cavernous structure, distributing offsets ; and the rest, coming from the dorsal artery (p. 440), pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. In the interior they divide into branches, which ramify in the termination .,1 . • '' . , in venous trabeculte, becommg finer, until they terminate in very minute spaces, branches, which open into the intertrabecular venous spaces. By the distension of these spaces the erection of the corpora cavernosa is produced. The veins spring from the intertrabecular spaces, and some issue Veins in along the upper and under aspects of the penis to join the dorsal two sets, vein; but the principal trunks escape at the crus penis and pass to the pudic veins. Corpus spongiosum UEETHRiE. This constituent part of the penis Spongy .surrounds the urethra, but not equally on all sides ; for at the bulb o'f^'he penis: only a thin stratum is above the canal, while at the glans penis (fig. 178, I) the chief mass is placed above the urethral tube. Structure. The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that its structure of the corpus cavernosum ; thus it consists of a fibrous tunic en- nous?'^^^^ closing a trabecular structure with blood-spaces. The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora The fibrous cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A septal piece (fig. ^'^^^' 176, ^) projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube imperfect of the urethra ; this is best marked for a short distance in front of septum; the bulb, and assists in dividing that part into two lobes. The trabecular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size than in trabecule, the corpora cavernosa. Blood-vessels. The arrangement of the blood-vessels in the erectile Blood- structure of the corpus spongiosum is similar in the bulb to that in '^'^^'""^^^ • the corpora cavernosa ; but in the rest of the si^ongy substance the arteries are said to end in capillaries in the usual way. The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side : a large one source of behind, the artery of the bulb (p. 430), enters the upper surface of """^^^''^^: the bulb; and several in front, offsets of the dorsal arteiy (p. 440), penetrate the glans. Kobelt describes another branch to the fore part of the bulb. Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the large termination dorsal vein of the penis, some communicating with veins of the °^ cavernous body : others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein. Nerves and lymphatics. Tlie nerves of the penis are large, and are Nerves, supplied by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves. The superficial lymphatics of the integuments, and those beneath the mucous mem- Lymphatics, brane of the urethra, join the inguinal glands ; the deep accompany the veins beneath the subpubic arch, to end in the lymphatic glands p p