COWPER'S GLANDS. 429 the pelvis. The liindmost fibres of the constrictor are connected Syverso witli the central point of the perineum, and are sometimes described muscle, separately as the transversus pcrinei profundus. Actio7i. This muscle acts as a sphincter in narrowing the membranous part of the urethra, and ejecting the contents of the tube. It may also aid in ^jroducing erection of the penis by compressing the veins of the corpora cavernosa, which are sur- rounded by its fibres. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle surround jj^'j^^^^^^^'j the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about ^xrethra, ■jijyth of an inch thick ; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous above with the circular fibres of the j^rostate. This layer is from the a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate is the bulb*" the chief part, surrounding the beginning of the urethra.* Action. This involuntary layer assists in moving forwards the use. urine and the semen. The GLANDS OP CowPER will be found by cutting through some Cowper's of the liinder fibres of the constrictor muscle. They are situate s''^"'^^ '■ behind the membranoirs part of the urethra, one on each side of the situation, middle line, and close above the bulb. Each gland is about the ^i^e, and striictiirG' size of a pea, and is made up of small lobules. Connected Avith each is a minute duct, an inch or more in lengtli and length, wliich perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra (corpus o/the\iuct'; spongiosum), and opens into the canal about three-quarters of an inch in front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. The nature of the secretion of the gland is not known. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and they vary they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. The student may complete the examination of the Dissection perineum by tracing out on the left side the pudic vessels with and Mrve. their remaining branches, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. From the point of its division beneath the crus into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the artery is to be followed back- wards along the bone : the nerve will be found by the side of, but deeper than the artery. The PUDIC ARTERY has already been dissected in the posterior Pudic half of the perineum (p. 421). At the front of the ischio-rectal'"'^^^''^ = fossa it penetrates the base of the triangular ligament, and then runs forwards close to the edge of the hip-bone (fig. 134, a), in a course canal formed by the tendinous origin of the constrictor urethree. '''"'^ About half an inch behind the symphysis pubis it pierces the ending, inferior layer of the ligament, and immediately divides into the arteries of the cavernous structure and dorsum of the penis. It is accompanied by venso comites and the dorsal nerve of the penis. Branches :- Its offsets in this part of its course are :— «. Deep muscular branches (d). As the artery is about to enter Muscular, between the layers of the triangular ligament it furnishes one ^ * See a paper on the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Urethra, m Tol. XXXIX, 1856, of the Trans, of the Roy. Med. Ghiv. Society.