STEUCTURE OF SMALL INTESTINE. 497 Dissection. The different layers are to be examined on pieces, Dissection about three inches long, taken from the duodenum, the upper part of the jejunum, and the lower end of the ileum. After the pieces have been cut off, they are to be distended with air ; and the serous covering is to be torn off for a short distance, to show the muscular coat, but in doing this, the external longitudinal fibres will be taken uway without great care. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular Seious coat layer. To the jejunum and ileum it furnishes a covering, except at the attached side where the vessels enter : at this spot the peri- nearly toneum is reflected off to form the mesentery, and a space exists '^°'"P'*^**^' resembling that at the borders of the stomach. The peritoneum except in' only partly surrounds the duodenum; this peculiarity has been denuui? described at p. 477. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a superficial Muscular or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The fibres are pale in colour, formed by a and are not striated. The longitudinal fibres iorm a thin covering, which is most marked longitudlna at the free border of the gut. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the others, and *"5l ^ir- , ' cular layer. give the chief strength to the muscular coat. Dissection. On the removal of some of the muscular stratum from Dissect the jejunum or the ileum, the submucous fibrous layer will come " into view. The fibrous or submucous coat has the same position and use as the ^k^'^tilatTn* corresponding layer in the stomach. stomach. Dissection. In the iipper part of the duodenum the student is to Seek glands seek some small compound glands—those of Brunner, which are ° ru""er. tnnbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the fibrous layer, when the muscular coat has been taken away. The pieces of intestine may be opened and washed to show the mu- mucous coat, but the gut should be cut along the line of attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's glands on the opposite side. Mucous coat. The lining membrane is thicker and more vascular Mucous at the beginning than at the ending of the small intestine. It is ^"i**^" marked by numerous prominent folds (valvulee conniventes) ; and the surface of the membrane is covered with small processes (villi) ^^^^ouh like the pile of velvet. Occupying the substance of the mucous surface, c^at are numerous glands. and glands. The valvules conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are permanent ridges Folds: of the mucous membrane, which are arranged circularly in the meut"^ intestine and project into the cavity of the tube. Crescentic in lengtii, form, they extend round the intestine for half or two-thirds of its circumference, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger gj^g and and smaller folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the depth; larger are about two inches long, and one-third of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each is formed of a doubling of the mucous i,ow formed- membrane, which encloses a prolongation of the submucous coat, with vessels, between the layers. K K