146 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. otic gan- glion is on inner inferior maxillary Stnicture. Branches join it mtli fifth, muscle ; and otlier minute filaments to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal artery and the chorda tympani is on "^^^^ aANGLiON (Arnold's ganglion, fig. 36) is a small reddish side of ^o<iy) which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little distance behind lies the large meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the others connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some tmgs are furnished by it to muscles. Connecting branches—roots. Through its connection T>dth the nerve to the internal pterygoid, the otic ganglion receives fibres from both the small and large roots of the inferior maxillary nerve, so that it Fig. 36.-' symi)a- thetic, seventh, ninth, auriculo- temporal, and chorda tyinpani. Branches to jnuscles; lensor tyinpani may be said to derive its motor and sensory roots from the fifth. Its sympathetic root comes from the plexus on the middle menin- geal artery. The ganglion is farther joined beliind by the small superficial petrosal nerve (^), through which fibres are conveyed to it from the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. One or two short branches pass between the ganglion and the beginning of the auriculo-temporal nerve; and a filament descends to the chorda tympani. Branches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves through the otic ganglion, viz., tensor tympani and tensor jmlati. The nei-ve to the tensor tympani is directed backwards to gain the bony * The otic ganglion from tlie inner side. a. Tensor tymimni muscler b. Internal pterygoid muscle, c. External carotid artery wdth the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining lingual. 5. Nerve to internal pteiygoid. 6. Nerve to tensor palati. 7. Auriculo-temporal nerve.