DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 866 Vena cava inferior. Pour pul- monary veins. Right veins the longer. Left veins. The INFERIOR or ascending c.vva enters the right auricle as soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches join the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen (p. 530). The PULMONARY VEINS are two on each side. They issue from the hilum of the lung, and end in the left auricle ; their position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 336. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie. beneath the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots from the upper and middle lobes of the kmg; and the inferior vein is formed by branches from the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. NERVES OP THE THORAX. Nerves of the thorax. To trace vagu.s. Phrenic nerve from the cervical plexus, passes to diaphragm. Right nerve above root of lung. Left nerve above root. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera of the thorax ; and the phrenic nerve courses through the cavity to the diaphragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerves have already been fully displayed in the thorax; but the pneumo-gastric nerves are now to be prepared. The vagus is to be followed, on each side, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out: some fine branches from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, coming forwards over the spinal column to the plexus, must also be looked for. To the front of the root the vagus supplies a few filaments. Beyond the root, the nerve is to be pursued along the oesophagus by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The PHRENIC NERVE is a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 74). In its course through the thorax it lies along the side of the pericardium, and at a little distance in front of the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the diaphragm it divides into branches, which perforate the muscle, and are dis- tributed on the under surface. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their relations above the root of the lung. The right nerve is deeper at first, and is also shorter and straighter than the left. In entering the chest it crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and superior cava till it reaches the pericardium. The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, but has the same position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the cavity. In the thorax it is directed in front of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nerve is placed external to the left common carotid artery; and it crosses the left vagus from without inwards, so as to be internal to that nerve op the arch.