181 AEACHNOID AND PIA MATER. separates and supports diflbrent pcarts of tlie brain, and serves as an internal periosteum to tlie bones, Tlie pia mater is tbe most internal layer, and contains tbe ramifications of tbe vessels of tbe brain. Tbe aracbnoid, wbicb is interposed between tbe otber two, is tbe membrane tbat is seen wben tbe brain is removed from its cavity. Besides enveloping the brain, tbese membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only tbe cranial part of tbe last two will be now noticed. For tbe description of tbe cranial portion Dura mater, of tbe dm-a mater, see p. 9. Tbe ARACHNOID is a very thin fibrous membrane, wbicb envelops ^^^^1^^?°^^ the brain loosely, and is sepai-ated from tbe dura mater by tbe interval named tbe subdural space, from tbe pia mater by tbe sub- arachnoid space. Its outer smface is free and smooth, and in tbe natural state is in close apposition to tbe dura mater. Tbe inner surface is attached to tbe pia mater by numerous fine cords and bands, which cross the subarachnoid space. The membrane covers Relations the convolutions and laminae of the large and small brain, bridging *° over the sulci between them, and at the base of the brain it stretches across from side to side between tbe cerebral hemispheres, so as to leave a considerable space beneath it. Above, it is prolonged into tbe median fissure between the cerebral hemispheres as far as tbe falx cerebri, but does not reach to the bottom of the cleft. On the nerves leaving the cavity of the cranium, tbe arach- Sheaths on noid forms tubular sheaths which enter the apertures in the dura mater, and then terminate in a free edge; but around the vessels and vessels, passing to or from the brain, the membrane joins the dura mater. The subarachnoid, space is filled by a watery fluid named cerebro- Subarach- spinal. Its size varies greatly at different parts. Over the con- varies ta"*^ volutions and prominences of the brain tbe arachnoid approaches extent, the pia mater closely, and tbe interval is very small; but opposite the sulci and depressions of the surface the space is expanded. The largest cavity is between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Three large where the arachnoid is reflected from the one to the otber much cavities, earlier than the pia mater. By an aperture in the latter membrane at this spot the subarachnoid space communicates with the cavity of the fourth ventricle. Another considerable interval exists between the cerebral hemispheres in front of the pons ; and a third extends the whole length of the corpus callosum, in the great longitudinal fissure. The PIA MATER closely invests the brain, following aU. inequali- pia mater ties of the surface, and dipping into the sulci of tbe cerebrum and cerebellum. It also sends a large process, named velum interpositum, forms velum into the interior of the cerebrum, and from this vascular processes pj*g1^y„j kno-vvn as choroid plexuses project into some of the ventricles of tbe ami choroid brain. Two similar fringes, tbe choroid plexuses of the fourth l'^^^"**^*^- ventricle, project into that cavity between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Tbe pia mater consists of a network of vessels, formed by tbe Structure, ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or issuing