ANATOMY OF FEMALE YISCEllA. quires fixrtliev notice. Tlie final branches of this artery (p. 561), f^j.™','^^,'.!;;'''' about six in nuniljer, pierce the muscuhir layer three inches from iiiJinon-Jioi- the anus, and di-scend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The reins haxo no valves, and communicate freely in a large vdus mv plexus (hfemorrhoidal) between the muscular and mucous coats, "jf'',?"' round the lower end of the gut. Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and through it reach the vena portjB ; and below they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle and inferior hcemorrhoidal branches. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the intestine are obtained Nerves, from the sympathetic ; but those of the external sphincter come from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of Lympiuitics. glands on the sacrum. Section VI. ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE PELVIC VISCEEA. In the pehds are contained the viscera alike in both sexes, VIZ., Visoera in the bladder, urethra, and rectum, and those special to the female, t'lP l'eivix. or the organs of generation. Dissection. The contents of the pelvis are to be removed, together i-o remove with the genital organs. For this purpose the student should keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid injuring the end of the rectum ; and he should also detach the crus of the clitoris from the bone. After the parts are taken from the body, the rectum is to be inui iiroiia-.c separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united imtil after the genital organs are examined. The bladder and rectum may be moderately distended ; and the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed from the viscera. GENITAL ORGANS. The genital organs, or external organs of generat'on, consist of iixtenmi the following parts :—the mons Veneris and external labia, the !;!im"ii(,",',n clitoris and internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the internal labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen. The name vulva or pudendum is aj^plied to these parts as a whole. Only the clitoris remains to be examined now, the others having been seen in the dissection of the perineum (p. 432) ; but there is also an erectile body on each side of the entrance to the vagina, called the bulb of the vestibule, to be noticed. Dissection. To see the clitoris, the integuments forming the clitoris: 1' P 2