375 LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRiE. three or four vertebiix), while the deepest pass from one bone to the next. More of the tibres are attached to the intervertebral discs than to the bones ; and fcAV or none are fixed to the centre of the bodies. The ligament bridges over the transverse hollows on the • vertebral bodies, and renders the front of the colmnn smooth and even. On each side, over the part uncovered by the anterior common siiort lateral ligament, the bodies of the vertebra) are united by a thin layer of short fibres (fig. 112, b). The posterior common Uqament (fig. 113) is contained in the Posterior spinal canal, lymg on the back of the vertebral bodies, and also ligament: extends from the axis to the sacrum. It is much thinner than the anterior, and, unlike that, is broad above and narrow below. It is form; wider opposite the intervertebral discs than on the bodies, so that Fig. 113.V.'' Fig. 113b.* the margins are dentate. In the neck (a) it covers nearly the whole Ijreadth of the bodies ; but in the dorsal and lumbar regions (b) it is a narrow band, which sends off a pointed process on each side to be attached to the intervertebral disc and the uj)per margin of the ]iedicle. The hinder surface of the ligament is in contact with the relations; <lura mater ; and between the band and the centre of the bodies are intervals where large veins issue from the bones. The fibres are arranged as in the anterior ligament ; and they are more closely united with the intervertebral substance than with the bone. Dusection. To see the intervertebral discs, the anterior and To see the posterior common ligaments must be taken away ; and to show vertebral their structure, one disc should be cut through horizontally, while s^ii>st.nicc. another is to be divided vertically by sawing through the bodies of two vertebrte. The intervertebral suhstanccH or discs (fig. 114) are placed between inter- the bodies of tlie vertebrte, with the exception of the atlas and axis, afscs^™^ Each disc is a flattened or slightly biconvex plate (fig. 115), which fo^nami is firmly united to the adjacent surfaces of two bodies ; and its form • Two views of the posterior common ligament, c, to show the difference in «hapc, A, in the neck, and h, in the loins.