ANATOMY OP UTERUS. 583 (cervix uteri; b) : it is nearly an incli in length, and gradually tapers towards tlie extremity, Avhere it projects into the vagina, heing en- closed by this tube to a greater extent behind than in front. The body («) of the uterus is more convex posteriorly than ante- body; riorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except at the lower part in front (about half an inch), where it is connected to the bladder. To parts each side the parts contained in the broad fold of the peritoneum ^j^j"'' ^® are attached (fig. 171), viz., the Fallopian tube at the top (m), the round ligament (n) rather below and before the last, and the ovary (l) and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to be Open the made along the front from the fundus to the os uteri; and then ^ some of the thick wall is to be removed on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity. The thickness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the middle Its thick- of the body. It is greater at the centre than at the extremities of the fundus (fig. 183), the wall becoming thinner towards the attach- ment of the Fallopian tubes. Interior of the uterus (fig. 183). "Within the uterus is a small space, in the which is di-\dded artificially into two—that of the body, and that of the neck. The space occupying the body of the viscus (fi) is triangular in is a trian- form, and compressed from before back. Its base is at the fundus, fn the body, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged into the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed downwards, and joins which is the ca^ity in the neck by a narrowed circidar part, isthmus, which ^Je{^°7-'^'^ may be narrower than the opening of the uterus into the vagina. The space within the neck (d) terminates below at the os uteri, and a spindle- and is continuous above with the cavity within the body. It is shaped larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and is ^^g°j^g'^ somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the ante- rior and the jiosterior wall is a longitudinal ridge ; and other ridges (rugce) are directed obliquely from these on each side : this appear- ance has been named arbor vitce uterinum. In the intervals between lu the neck the rugae are mucous follicles, which sometimes become distended artor'^^tL"^ with fluid, and give rise to rounded clear sacs. Structure. The dense wall of the uterus is composed of layers uterus is a of unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed Avith areolar and elastic "rgln'^'^^ tissues and large blood-vessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum ; and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The rmiscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period of There are gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus, viz., "^^^^ = external, internal, and middle :— The external layer contains fibres which are mostly transverse ; external, but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres con- verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the sub- peritoneal fibrous tissue ; and others are continued into the Fallopian tube, the roimd ligament, and the ligament of the ovary.