I CHAPTER III. DISSECTION 07 THE UPPER LIMB. Sectiox I. Directions for the dissection. Position of tlie body. Marking of the surfece. Mammary gland: position of nipple. Arm-pit. Head of bone to be ielt. Shoulder ^rchof bone. THE WALL OF THE THORAX AND THE AXILLA. The wall of the chest and the axilla, which are described in this Section, are to be learnt within a fixed time, in order that the examination of the thorax may be undertaken. While the dissection of the thorax is in progress, the student will have to discontinue his work on the upper limb; but when that is finished, he must be ready to begin the part of the back that belongs to him. Position. The body lying on the back, the thorax is to be raised to a convenient height by a block; and the arm, being slightly- rotated outwards, is to be placed at a right angle with the trunk. Directions. Before the dissection is begun, attention should be given to the surface-marking ; and the prominences and depressions formed by the muscles, together with the parts of the bones that are to be recognised, should be noticed. The position of the chief blood-vessels is also to be ascertained. Siirface-marking. On the front of the chest is seen the prominence of the mamma, large in the female, but small and rudimentary in the male, with the nipple projecting from it near the centre. In the male, the nijople is placed most frequently over the fourth inter- costal space, sometimes over the fifth rib, and occasionally at a still higher or lower level. Its j)osition in the female varies greatly with the develojameut of the mamma. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the axilla, in the outer j)art of which the large vessels and nerves of the lunb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much the position of the limb to the trunk ; for in proportion as the ami is elevated, the folds bounding it in front and behind are earned upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is diminished. In this part the skin is of a dark colour, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat-glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in different directions, while the fingers of one hand are placed in the arm-pit, the head of the humerus may be recognised. On the outer side of the limb is the prominence of the shoulder: and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed in il