RELATIONS OF THE RECTUM. 547 the bliuUIer and tlie rectum, the phace of reflection being lower when tliosc oi-gans are empty, and rising when they are distended. With the bhidder and rectum moderately filled, the end of the pouch is commonly about one inch and a half from the tip of the coccyx, and three inches (or the length of the fore finger) from the anus. Falac ligaments of the bladder. These are parts of the continuous ^g^,^tg^|f"' sheet of peritoneum reflected from the bladder to the pelvic and bladder: abdominal wall. Five ligaments are described, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior false ligament (one on each side) reaches from the posterior; u|.)per and hinder part of the bladder to the front of the sacrum, and forms the side-wall of the recto-vesical pouch. Beneath it are the internal iliac vessels, the obliterated hypogastric artery, the ureter, anil the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic. The lateral false ligament (also one on each side) is the vndest, and lateral; is reflected from the side of the bladder to the iliac fossa and the wall of the pelvis. It is separated from the posterior and superior liga- ments by the obliterated hypogastric artery. The superior false ligament is the portion of peritoneum between superior the two obliterated hypogastric arteries, reflected from th.e upper surface of the bladder over the urachus to the anterior abdominal wall. The RECTUM, or last part of the great intestine (fig. 170,/c). Rectum: I'xtends from the brim of the pelvis, near tlie sacro-iliac articulatioii f^ngtii ' of the left side, to the anus, and is about eight inches long. The bowel has a sinuous course, for it first follows the curve of the sacrum course ami and coccyx, and then inclines backwards to the anus ; and it is supports; supported mainly by the peritoneum, the recto-vesical fascia, and the ])erineal muscles. For convenience of description it is divided into divisions, three parts :— The npper portion, longer than the others, extends to the centre of First part tlie third piece of the sacrum. It is almost entirely surrounded by covered by peritoneum, which forms a distinct fold, or meso-i-ectum, between its ^'^^'^""^.g'"' upper end and the front of the sacrum, so that some degree of move- able; ment from side to side is permitted. Behind it are the sacrum, with relations, the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of the left side ; and the left ureter and internal iliac vessels are adjacent to it, but separated by the peritoneum.* The middle portion lies behind the bladder, and reaches to the tip Second part of the coccyx ; it is about three inches in length, and is covered by ' ]joritoneum in front for about the upper half of its extent. Im- mediately below this it pierces the recto-vesical fascia, and receives its sheath from that membrane. Kesting on it is the triangular relations, part of the bladder, mth the vesiculte seminales and vasa deferentia; and Ijeneath it are the sacrum and coccyx. On each side is the coccygeus muscle. The loioer portion is about an inch and a haK long, and is curved Tiiird pari is largest; * In some bodies the first part of the rectum is miich curved to the right side ; and occasionally this piece of the intestine lies altogether on the right of ,tiic sacrum, the lower end of the left colon crosaing the spine at the brim of the pelvis. N N 2