DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 342 CoiDimry I'lcxuscs, right luid left; ending in tlie lieart. Four cavi- ties of the heart. Difisection to open right atu'icle. Fonn of right auricle. Its base, and apex. Anterior wall pre- sents ap- pendix. Posterior wall is marked by- fossa ovalis. The ri(jhl coronary nerves pass from the superficial plexus to the right coronary artery, and receive near the heart a conmiunicatiug offset from the deep cardiac plexu.s. The left coronary nerves are derived, as will he suLse([uer)t!y seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and follow the left coroiiaiy artery. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they soon leave the vessels, and hecoming smaller hy .subdivision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked hj small ganglia. The CAVITIES OF THE HEART may be examined in the order in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz., right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ventricle. Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to be removed from the body. To open the right aui'icle, an incision should be made in it near the right or free border, extending i'rom the suj)erior cava nearly to the inferior cava; and from the centre of this cut the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the appendix. By this means an ojiening will be made of sufficient size; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the caAdtj^ may be examined. The CAVITY OF THE BIGHT AURICLE (tig. 104) Is of an irregular form,* though Avlien seen from the right side, with the flaps held up, it has somewhat the apjDearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex to the left. The widened part or base of the cavity is turned towards the right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and inferior cava3. Between those vessels the wall i^rojects a little, and in some bodies presents a slight elevation (tubercle of Lower). The apex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opeaiing into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior loall is thin and loose. Near the top is an opening leading into the i^ouch of the appendix (/;,), which will admit tlie tip of the little finger. Near, and in the interior of the appendix are prominent fleshy bands, named musculi pectmati, which nm mostl}^ in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior tcall corresponds mostly ^vith. the septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position of the heart (p. 338). On it, close to the inferior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis (d), which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the foetus : inferiorly it merges into the lower cava. A thm semitransparent structure forms the liottom of the fossa; and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture into the left auricle at its upper part. Around the upper three-fourths of the fossa is an elevated band of muscular fibres, called annuhis ovalis or isthmus * The term cavity of tlie anricle is somctinies confined to tlie part in the appendix, and tlie name atrium or sinus vcnosus is tlicn given to the rest Of the space here named auricle.