343 RIGHT AURICLE OF HEART. Vieussmii, which is most prominent above and on the left side, and gradually subsides beloAV. Altogether at the lower end of the posterior wall is the aperture of the coronary sinus (e). Other small apertures, named foramina of Thehesius, are scattered over this surface ; some lead only into depretisions ; but others are the mouths of veins Fig- 104.* of the substance of the heart (smallest cardiac veins ; p. 341). The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavre, coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava (a) is at the top of the auricle, and looks slightly forwards. The inferior cava (6) enters the lowest part of the ca\T.ty at the back, close I j( ^ to the septum, and is \ 3 directed inwards to the fossa ovalis {d). Theau- riculo-ventricular open- ing (c) is the largest of all, and is situate at the lower and fore part of the cavity. Between this and the septum is placed the opening of the coronary sinus (e). All the large vessels, except the suj)erior cava, have some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian valve, which is only a remnant of a much larger structure in the foetus. This fold is semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior wall of the vein, and the other free in the ca-vdty of the auricle. The valve is wider than the vein opening; and its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards : it is often cribriform. The aperture of the coronary sinus is covered by a thin fold of the lining membrane—the valve of Thehesixis. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with a valve, which prevents the blood flowing back into the auricle. In the adult there is but one ciuTcnt of blood in the right auricle towards the ventricle. But in the foetus there are two streams in * Diagram of the two cavities of the right side of the heart, a. Upper cava. b. Lower cava. c. Right auriculo-ventricular opening, d. Fossa ovalis. e. Opening of the coronary sinus. " ~ artery, h. Auricular appendix. Annulus of Viuussens. Apertures of sinus and smallest veins. Situation of cava;, of auriculo- ventricular opening, of coronarj- binus. Valves of chief aper- tures. Inferior cava has Eustachian valve : one to coro- uai"y .sinus, and to auriculo- ventricular opening. Course of l)l()()d in auricle in adult, /. Foramina Thebesii. g. Pulmonary