58 DISSECTION OF THE NECK, be^xaminwi and during the time allotted for this position the dissector of the head is to learn the posterior part of the neck. (See the dissec- tion OF THE BACK.) Remove After the completion of the back, the student should take out tlie spm- cou. spiual cord, and then return to the dissection of the front of the neck, which is described below. FRONT OF THE NECK. Detach tlie head. Examine right side of neck. Position of part. Dissection to raise skin, to show platysma. Anterior part of platysma. Insertion into jaw. Crossing of the fibres. Use on mouth, in swallow- ing. Dissection. Directions. After the thorax and back are finished, the head and neck may be detached from the trunk by dividing the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebrae, and cutting through the arch of the aorta beyond its large branches (if this is not done), so as to take that piece of the vessel with the head. The dissector con- tinues his work on the remainder of the right side of the neck ; but if the facial nerve has been omitted, it should be first learnt (p. 35). Position. SujDposing the facial nei-ve completed, a small narrow block is to be placed beneath the left side of the neck, and the face is to be turned from the dissector. Farther, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin being well raised at the same time. Dissection. An incision along the base of the jaw on the right side (if it has not been made already) will allow the jjiece of integument in front of the sterno-mastoid to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the siiperficial fat, containing very fine ofl'sets of the superficial cervical nerve. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat which covers it, carrying the knife down and back in the direction of the fleshy fibres. Platysma mtoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz., from the stemo-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers the greater por- tion of the anterior triangular space. At the base of the jaw it is inserted between the symphysis and the masseter muscle ; while other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek-bone. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the posterior half of the muscle (p. 52), but they are rather stronger. Below the chia the inner fibres of oj)posite muscles cross for about an inch, but those which are superficial do not always belong to the same side in different bodies. Action. The hinder part of this muscle draws the comer of the mou.th downwards and outwards ; the fore part is used in swallow- ing, and carries forwards the skin of the upper part of the neck, thus facilitating the upward movement of the laryirx. When the miiscle contracts forcibly, the skin of the upper part of the chest and shoulder is also raised. Dissection. Eaise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and dissect out beneath it the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cei-vical branch of the facial nerve. Clean also the deep