THE PERICARDIUM. Seek the following neiTcs of the left side, wliich cross the arch f^Q^^'^';"'^^ of the aorta :—Tlie nerve most to the left, and the largest, is the arciTof^' vagus ; the next largest in size, in front of the vagus, is the phrenic. Between tlie preceding nerves, and close to the artery, iii'e the left superhcial cardial nerve of the sympathetic, and the lower cer\-ical cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smaller, and on the right of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to be Disseci; foUowed to a small plexus (superlicial cardiac) in the concavity of p"exiis1n' the aorta. An offset of the plexus is to be traced downwards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the right' coronary artery of the heart ; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards from the deep cardiac to the superficial plexus : this dissection is difficult, and requires cai'e. When the pericardium is afterw^ards opened the nerves will be followed on the heart. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the body. The PERiCARMUM is somewhat conical in form, the wider part Pericar- beiiig turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part extending '^^"^ " upwards lieyond the heart on the large vessels. It is placed behind fy^.^jf."'^ the sternum, and projects on each side of that bone, but much more position ; towards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie between relations, the two. Its anterior surface is separated from the chest-Avall by the pleurte and lungs, except over a small area on the left side corre- sponding to the lower part of the anterior mediastinum (p. 333) ; and behind, in the interval between the plenroe, it is in contact with the oesophagus and aorta. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- Composi- ternally by a serous membrane. The fibrous part surrounds the heart, and is pierced by the large Fibrous part vessels joining that organ, with the exception of the inferior cava : fi^gatiis to it gives prolongations around the vessels, and the strongest of these vessels, sheaths is on the aorta. Below, it is nnited to the central tendon of the diaphragm. This meuiljrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of fibres crossing in different directions, many being longitudinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous Lining will be seen. The serous sac consists of a parietal and a visceral part, Avhich are Serous continuous with one another along tlie great vessels. The parietal Ifi^rn^''"*^^ part lines the fibrous membrane, with which it is inseparably united, and tlie included portion of the diaphragm ; wliile the visceral part covers the heart. Where it is reliected around the.„ul.,-.. vessels, it encloses the pulmonary artery and aorta in one sheath ; ^"^^''^ = but the veins are not completely surrounded, their posterior surfaces disposition being devoid of a serous investment. At the back of the leftvIsJels; auricle the serous membrane forms a pouch between the pulmonary vems of the two sides. In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer forma a vestigial fold. z covers