602 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Take away the skin, and follow saphenous vein. Seek cutane- ous nerves of front of thigh, and on side of the knee. Superficial veins. Internal saphenous vein in thigh pierces fascia lata to join the femoral. Veins join- ing it may form three trunks at the top of the thigh. amine the remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together "witli the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of the thigh, a cut is to Ije carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee-joint, to rather below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity of this a trans- verse incision is to be made across the front of the kg, but this is U) reach farthest on the inner side. The skin may be reflected in flaps inwards and outwards; and as it is raised from the front of the knee, a superficial bursa between it and the patella will be opened. The saphenous vein is to be first traced out in the fat as far as the skin is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it the student should be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 188) are to be sought in the fat, with small cutaneous arteries, in the following positions :—On the outer margin, below the upper third, is phiced the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin are the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve,—one small oft'set appearing near the upper part of the thigh, one or more about half-way down, and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third. On the inner side of the knee three other cutaneous nerves are to be looked for ;—One, a branch of the great saphenous, is directed outwards over the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphe- nous nerve, lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower edge of the surface now dissected. And the third is a ternoinal branch (posterior) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels, All the cutaneous veins on the anterior and inner as- pects of the thigh are collected into one ; and this trunk is named saphenous from its manifest appearance on the surface. The INTEENAL SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 187, o) is the cutaneous trunk of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the foot to the top of the thigh. In the part of its course now dis- sected, the vessel lies inferiorly somewhat behind the knee-joint; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, and enters the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the arteries in that situation, viz,, external pudic (6), superficial epigas- tric (c), and circumflex iliac (d), terminate in it. Towards the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and hack of the thigh are frequently united into one branch, which enters the saphenous trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata ; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way. When this arrangement exists three large veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening.