288 DISSECTION OF FllOXT OF FOREARM. Long palmar nuiscle lies over annular ligament and joins fascia of l)alni. Use. Flexor carpi nlnaris: origin hy two heads; insertion into pisi- form bone. Adjacent parts. Use. Course and extent of the radial artei-y. Situation in the foreaiTO. Relations to muscles: in upper half; The PALMARis LONGUS (fig. 84/) is fiometimes absent; or it may preseut great irregularity iu tlie jiroportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. It arises, like the preceding muscle, from the common tendon, tlie fascia, and the intei'iniLscular septa. Its slender tendon is continued along the centre of the forearm ; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, sending a slip to the abductor muscle of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor car^pi radialis and vdnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Kendering tense tlie palmar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elbow, like the last muscle. The FLEXOR CARPI ULNARis (fig. 84,') arises by a narrow slip in coimnon with the other muscles from the inner condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor sublimis digitorum ; and by a broad aponeurosis from the inner margin of the olecranon and the posterior border of the ulna for the iipper two-thirds of its length. The fibres pass downwards and for- wards to a tendon on the anterior aspect of the muscle in the lower half, some joining it as Ioav as the wrist; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone. One surface of the muscle is in contact with, the fascia; and its tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, serves as the guide to the ulnar artery. To its radial side are the palmaris flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, the muscle wUl be seen to conceal the flexor profundus digitorimi, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnai vessels : between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the forearm. Action. The wrist is bent, and the hand is drawn inwards by the contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 84,^) is one of the vessels derived fi'om the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and extends to the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the foreann as far as the end of the radius; next it wdnds backwards below the extremity of that bone ; and finally it enters the palm of the hand through, the first interosseous space. In consequence of this cii^. cuitous course the artery will be found in three difterent dissectionB, viz., the front of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the pabn of the hand. In the front of the forearm. In this region of the limb the position of the artery will be marked on the siuface by a line from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar arterj'^, • though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial. trunk. It is partly deep and partly superficial; and where it is super-. ficial, it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist during life. In its itp^jer half the vessel is placed beneath the supinator longus C') ; and it rests successively on the folloAraig muscles,—the tendon of the biceps ("), the fleshy supinator brevis, the pronator lores ('), and part of the thin origin of the flexor sublimis (").