DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. m Jjakeout Dissection. To study the form and structure of the viscera, it will levisceia, necessary to remove them from the ])elvis. Eor this purpose the student shoiild carry the scalpel round the pelvic outlet, close to the separate osseous boundary, so as to detach the crus of the penis from the bone, rectum; ^j^g ^^^^ q£ ^j^p rectum from the parts around. When the vi-scera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united, dean the After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue bladder, -^^ removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland and the vesiculse seminales are then to be cleaned; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland, and penis. If any of the integument has been left on the penis it is to 1 taken away. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate PROSTATE Gland (fig. 175). This is a fil'm muscular body con- giand. taiuing glands, which siuToimds the neck of the bladder and the situation; iDeginning of the lu-ethra. Its relations have been enumerated at p. 549. tonn; The prostate is conical in form, like a chestnut, with the base or dimensions; larger end directed upwards. Its dimensions are the following :— Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and from before back about three-quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely ou.twards and backwards will be the longest that can be and weight, practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an oimce, but in this respect it varies greatly. Surfaces; The anterior surface of the prostate is narrow and rounded. The posterior surface, larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes, base; The base is thick, and at its posterior part has a median notch, and apex, which receives the common seminal ducts. The apex is pierced by the urethra. Three lobes, Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a noiddle and two two lateral, lateral, though there is no fissure in the firm mass. The lateral lobes (fig. 175, b, c) are similar on the two sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief pai't of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in and a cen- the base. The middle lobe (d) will be brought into view by detach- tral. j[jjg ^]j^g vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia fi'om the bladder: it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, which extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. Gland con- The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contained in t^ins three tj^g substance of the prostate (fig. 177). The former is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to teiTninate in the urethral canal.