DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 344 aiul in the I'lutus. To open right ventricle. Cavity of rig}it ven- tricle. Apox. Base and its openings. Anterior and posterior wall. Interior of the cavity is uneven: on it tliere are three sets of fleshy columns. Opening from tlie auricle : position, form and is guarded by the tri- cuspid val\'( the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, whicli cro.ss one another in early life, Init become; more commingled as birth approaches. The placental or pure blood, entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve into the left auiicle, through the foramen ovale in the septmn ; Avhile the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of the right ventricle, the student should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, and cut out below near the apex of the heart without injuring tlie A'entricular septum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the anterior wall of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 104) is triangular in form, with the base turned towards the auricle of the same sidi-. On a cross section it would apj^ear semilunar in shape, the septum between the ventricles being convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a short distance from the tip. The base of the ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures ; one of these, to the right and below, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening (c) ; the other, on the left and much higher, is the inoutli of the pulmonary artery (g). The part of the cavitj' leading up to the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named infundibulum or conus arteriosus. The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall corresponds with the sep- tum between the ventricles, and is much thicker. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is marked by pro- jecting muscular bands, the colunmce carnece ; but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three different kinds. Some form merely a prominence in the ventricle, especially' on the septmn. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle {traheculw carnece). And a third set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form roiuided bundles, named musculi papillares ; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of tlie ventricle, and behind the right half of the sternmn, on a level Avith the fourth intercostal space. It is oval in shape, and measures about four inches in circumference, being slightly larger than the con-e- sponding aperture of the left side. Fixed around the opening is a large membranous xcilye, whicli projects into the cavity of the ventricle. At its attached margin the valve is undivided ; but its lower part is notched, so a$ to. fonn