DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 688 Section VII, INTERNAL MUSCLES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two muscleis. Define the muscles and the levator ani. Pyriformis; origin m the pelvis; insertion; relations ■with parts around.: use as an external rotator of hip-joint. Obturator intemus is hent over pelvis; origin in the pelvis; arching of its tendons over the hip bone; Two muscles, the pyriformis and obturator intemus, have their origin within the cavity of the pelvis. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areolar tissue which may remain on the muscles ; and define their exit from the pelvis,—the pyriformis passing through the great, and the obturator through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. On the right side the dissector may look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between the anterior aper- tures, and from the surface of the bone external to those holes ; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the hip-bone forming the upper boundary of the large sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the iibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter (p. 638), The anterior surface is in contact with the sacral plexus, with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels, and with, the rectimi on the left side. The opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the supe- rior gluteal nerve being between; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use will be given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the buttock (p. 638). The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its origin iu the pelvis, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, like the preced- ing ; but the part outside forms an acute angle with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the obtura- tor membrane, except a small part below; from the pelvic fascia covering its surface ; slightly from the bone anterior to the thyroid hole, but from all the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis behind and above that aperture, except ojiposite the small sacro-sciatic foramen, where a thin layer of fat separates tlie fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres are directed backwards and do^\•nwards, and end in four or five tendinous pieces, which turn over the edge of tlie hip-bone corresponding with the small sciatic notch. Outside the