MENINGEAL ARTERIES. 15 or basilar sinus. cavernous sinuses, and with tlie pteiygoid plexus outside, tlie skull tlirougli tlie forameii ovale and the foramen lacerum. The blood leaves the cavity by the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The INTERCAVERNOUS SINUSES are two vessels which pass trans- Intercavcrn- vei-sely in the sella turcica between tlie right and left cavernous circular sinuses, being placed one in front of, and the other behind the sinus, pituitary body. To the venous ring thus formed around the pituitary body the name of circular sinus has been given. The SUPERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 3, f) lics In a groove in the Superior upper edge of the petrous part of the temjporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. Small veins from the cerebellum are received into it. The INFERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 3, Ji) is larger than the superior, inferior and lies in a groove along the line of junction of the ijetrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by small veins from the cerebellum, and one from the internal ear. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The TRANSVERSE SINUS Or BASILAR PLEXUS is a venous network Transverse in the substance of the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone, uniting the inferior petrosal sinuses. Meningeal Arteries. Tliese arteries supj^lying the cranium Arteries of and the dura mater come through the base of the skull; they have ^^3"?^^*^^ been named from their situation in the three fossae, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are small branches of the anterior Anterior ethmoidal artery (p. 46), wMch enters the skull by the anterior "^'^'^^^seal. internal orbital canal: they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERIES are three in munber: Middle two, named large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary ^'^"^"g*^'^^- trunk ; and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large mmingeal branch of the internal maxillary artery Large from, appears through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and uiaxiUaly divides into two principal branches. The larger of these enters the deep groove on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal hone, and ends in ramifications wliich extend upwards to the top of the head and forwards over the frontal bone. The posterior branch is dis- tributed over the hinder part of the parietal and the upper part of the occipital bones. Two veins accompany this artery. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, it furnishes sives branches to the dura mater and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve, dura mater" One small offset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone (Hyrtl). One or two branches pass through and bone, the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. b. The small meningeal h-anch is an offset of the large one Small outside the skull, and is transmitted through tlie foramen ovale to '""'""seal, the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal One from