DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE XECK. 118 In luulclle line. On eucli side : partly the same on botli sides, and partly dlHerent. Thyroid ■body consists of two lobes and a cross piece. Relations and extent of lobes. Middle lobe or pyramid. Accessory glands. Weight and size. No duct. Arteries, superior, position of the several parts entering or leaving tlic thorax by the upper opening may be now observed. In the middle line lie the remains of the thynubs gland, and the trachea and oesophagus. In front of the trachea are the lower ends of the stenio-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mufiules Avith layers of the cervical fascia, and the inferior thyroid veins ; and behind the gullet and windpipe are the longi colli muscles. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the dome of the pleura and the apex of the lung project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and the trachea and oesophagus, are placed the vessels and nerves pa.ssing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both sides lie the innominate vein, the phrenic nerve, and the internal mam- mary artery ; but the vessels and nerves next met with are different on the two sides :—On the right side come the imiominate artery, with the vagus, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery Avith the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first dorsal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior inter- costal artery. The THYROID BODY (fig. 16,^') is a soft reddish mass, wliich embraces the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lateral lobes, imited by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe. The connecting piece, from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed over the second, thii'd, and fourth rings of the trachea. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end u.pwards, and is about two inches in length. It is interposed between the windpipe with the larynx and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, stemo-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies ; but usually it reaches as high as the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper border of the thyi'oid body, a conical process, known as the pyramid, often ascends towards the hyoid bone, to which it is attached by a fibrous band. The pyramid generally springs from the inner part of one of the lateral lobes, seldom from the isthmus; and it is sometimes connected to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator glandulce thyroidece of Scenmierruig. Detached portions of glandular substance, or accessory thyroid glandx, are not unfrequently found between the main body and the hyoid bone. The thyroid body is of a brownish red or purjple hue, is granular in texture, and weighs from one to two ounces. It is larger in the woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretoiy tube or duct. The arteries of the thyroid body are two on each side—superior and inferior thyroid. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect: while those from