504 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. gland, witliout a ilistiiKit caj)sul('. Tlic duct of the sland: extent; branches ; size and structure. Vessels and jiervps. turc, consisting of separate lobules, eacli of wliicli is provided witli a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule ; but it h- surrounded by areolar tissue, which projects into the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a greyish white colour, and are united into larger ma-'ises bv areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. The duct of the pancreas (canal of Wirsung; lig. 153, d) extend- the whole length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the low( i than the upper border. It begins iai the tail of the pancreas, Avhen- it presents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to the head, it receives many branches. It finally ends by opeuinj^' into the duodenum, usually in union with the common bile-dui-i (p. 498). Of the tributary branches, the largest is derived Irom the lower part of the head of the pancreas. The duct measiu'es from ^th to y^^h of an inch in diameter neai- the duodenum. It is formed of a fibrous coat with a very smootli mucous lining. v Vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have bei-ii described (p. 487) ; and the lymphatics pass to the coeliac glands. The nerves are furnished by the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. Consistence and colour. Form and position. Size and weight. Surfaces are phrenic, gastric, and renal. Borders and extremities. Sometimes accessory spleens. Two coats and special material. The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or pur])li colour, sometimes approaching to grey. Its texture is Mable, and easily broken under pressure. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed obliquel x behind the great end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In tin- adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three (H four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thick- ness. Its weight lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather less in the female than the male. At the posterior or outer aspect it is convex towards the i ib.<. On the opposite side a longitudinal ridge separates an anterior Di- gastric surface from a narrow internal or renal surface, both of which are concave (p. 472). Just in front of the ridge is a groove, or more commonly a series of small depressions, where the branches of the vessels enter : this part is called the hilum of the sjjleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more jjointed tlian the upper. Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi), varying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are found occasionally, near tin- hilum of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in tlie gn-at omentum. Structure. Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, a serDU." and a fibrous. It is formed by a network of fibrous or trabecular tissue, which contains in its meshes the splenic pulp. Throughout the mass the blood-vessels and the nerves ramify. It has no duct.