164 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Form Oil of two aliu, each having tipper and lower conma. Cricoid cartilage. Form. Surfaces. Borders. the thyro-arytenoid muscles and ligaments, Tlie upper Ijorder is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two squarish halves or aire, which are united in front. Posteriorly each ala has a thick Ijoi'der, wliich is continued upwards and downwards in a rounded process or cornu (e and f). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards ; of the two, the upper (e) is the longer; but the Fig. 43.* lower one (f) is tlie thicker, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of the ala is smooth ; the outer is marked by an oblique line for the attachment of muscles, Avhich extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper coniu, to a projection at the middle of the lower border. The CRICOID CARTILAGE (d) is stronger thougla smaller than the thyroid, and surroimds the lower part of the cavity of the larjaix; it is partly con- cealed by the thjToid cartilage, below which it is placed. It is very unequal in depth before and behind,—the posterior part being nearly four times as deep as the anterior, something like a Its contained space as large as the fore signet ring, is about finger. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square portion, which is marked on its j^osterior sui'face by a median ridge, between two OA'^al depressions occupied by the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. On each side, immediately in front of the square part, is a slightly raised articular facet, M'hich receives the lower cornu of the tli}'Toid cartilage. The iimer surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is horizontal, somewhat undulating, and is united to the trachea by fibrous membrane. The upper border of the broad part of the cartilage is slightly excavated in the middle, and is limited on each side by a convex articiUar facet for the ary- tenoid cartilage, which slopes do"miAvards and outwai'ds. In front of that spot, the border descends rapidly as it passes forwards to the middle line. * Hyoid bone and laryngeal cartilages : a. Body of liyoid bone. h. Large cornu. .T. Small cornu. A. Epiglottis. B. Thyroid cartilage, c.c. Arytenoid cartilages, r. Cri- coid cartilage, E. Upper cornu, and v. Lower coniu of thj-roid cartilage.