DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 84 Position (U' vessols. Nerves, Kxtenial ptei-ygoid. Orifcin. Insertion. lielatioiis Use of boUi muscles, of OIK' muscle. liitenml literygoid. Origin. Insertion. Contiguous part-s. Position of vessels. Running forwards over tlie external pterygoid muscle is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets upwards and downwards : sometimes the artery is placed beneath the muscle. The veins, which form a large plexu-s between the muscles, may be taken away. Position of nerves. Most of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are seen in this dissection. Thus, the masseteric and deep temporal nerves appear between the upper border of the external pterygoid and the skull, while the buccal nerve perforates the fore part of the muscle. Issuing from beneathi the lower border of the same muscle are the large inferior dental and lingual nerves, tlie latter being the anterior of the two ; and coming out behind the condyle of the jaw is the auriculo-temporal nerve. The small posterior dental branch, of the superior maxillary nerve is also to be found, lying with th.e artery of the same name on the hinder part of the upper jaw. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 19, ^) is triangular in shape, and arises by two heads, which are separated by an interval opposite the spheno-maxillaiy fossa. The ujDper head is the smaller, and is attached to the fore part of the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone ; the lower head springs from the outer sur- face of the external pterygoid plate. From this origin the muscle runs backwards and outwards to be inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw-bone, and into the interarticular fibro- cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw ; and the internal maxillary artery usually lies on it. Its deep surface is in contact with the internal pterygoid, the inferior maxillary nerve, and with the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Through the interval between the heads pa,ss the buccal nerve and the internal maxillary artery, when the latter is placed beneath the muscle. The parts in contact ^^ ith the borders of the external pterygoid have been enumerated above. Actio7i. If both muscles contract, the jaw is moved directly for- wards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in front of the uj)per ; but if one muscle act alojie (say the right), the condyle of the same side is drawn forwards, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are moved obliquely to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is mainly effected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 19, •') crossBS the dii'ec- tion of the external, and is nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw. It arises in the pterygoid fossa, mainly from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and by a small slip from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone and the superior maxilla in front of the pterygoid process. The fibres descend to be inserted into a rough mark on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending from the inferior dental foramen to the angle. On the muscle are placed the dental and lingual nerves, the dental vessels, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Its deep