81 URANCHES OF TEMPORAL ARTERY. the posterior root of the zygoma, it divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches which are distributed over the tormination. fi-ont and side of the head (p. 5). Before dividing the artery gives off' the following branches :— a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland of the same name ; Branches articular twigs to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and muscular ^ avticuili- branches to the niasseter. h. Some anterior auricular offsets are distributed to the pinna and and to eiir. meatus of the external ear. c. The transverse facial branch leaves the temporal artery close to Branch t.. its origin, and is directed forwards over the niasseter muscle (p. 28) ; on the side of the face it supplies the muscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. d. The middle temporal branch arises just above the zygoma, and Branch to pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the tern- unisc?e^' poral muscle: it anastomoses with the temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. e. A small orbital branch runs forwards between the layers of the and fascia, temporal fascia, and is distributed to the superficial structures near the eye (fig. 2, h); this anastomoses with an offset of the lachrymal artery (p. 45). The temporal vein begins on the side of the head (p. 6) and lies Temporal with its artery in front of the ear. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein; it then receives branches correspond- ing to the other offsets of the artery ; and it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will now be left for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied salt to preserve it. Sectiojj VJ. I'TERYGO-MAXILLARY REGI01N-. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath Contents of the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the temporo-maxillar}^ region, articulation. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The niasseter muscle, which is superficial to the Dissection, bone, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the facial nerve. To see it more fully, the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut thi'ough and turned back- wards, and the fascia cleaned off the surface of the muscle. Should there be any tow or cotton-wool left in the mouth let it bc- removed. The MA8SETER (fig. 6,"') ariscs by a flattened tendon from the Massetcr lower border ol' the zygomatic arch, including a smnll portion of the ^^^^^'^'^ -