110 DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Branches to unite with others aiu'icular branch ; with eleventh, sympa- thetic, ninth ; with twelfth, sympa- thetic, and spinal nerves. Branches of supply. To pharynx through pharyngeal plexus. Upper branch to larynx, its external oflset. derived from the spinal accessor}' nerve (") pass over tlie ganglion without being connected to it. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve arising in the neck may be divided into those imiting it with other nerves, and those distributed to the several organs. * Oonnecting branches (fig. 27) arise from the ganglia of the root and trunk of the vagus. * From the gamjlion of the root. The auricular branch (Arnold's nerve,'') is the chief offset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process : it traverses the substance of the temporal bone, and is distributed to the outer ear. Its farther coiu-se will be described mth the anatomy of the ear. * One or two short filaments imite this ganglion with the small part of the spinal accessory nerve ; and a branch from the upper ganglion of the sympathetic enters it. Occasionally there is an offset (^°) to join the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. From the ganglion of the trunk. Coimnunicating filaments pass between it and the hypoglossal nerve. Other branches connect it to the npper ganglion of the sympathetic and the loop of the first two cervical nerves. Branches for distribution. The cervical branches arise from the lower ganglion and the tnmk of the nerve, and are dii'ected inwards, to supply the pharjmx, the larynx, and the heart, a. The pharyngeal branch (fig, 27,") springs from the upper jDart of the ganglion of the trunk, and is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery to the side of the pharynx, being joined in its course by the descending pharyngeal branches of the glosso- pharjnigeal nerve. On the surface of the middle constrictor, the ramifications of the united nerves commmiicate freely together, and with the pharyngeal branches of the symjjathetic, to form the phanjngeal plexus. The offsets of the plexus enter the wall of the pharynx and supply the constrictor muscles, the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, and the mucous membrane between the mouth and the larynx. According to Liischka, Henle, and others, a branch ascends from the plexus to the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles, b. The superior laryngeal nerve (fig. 27,") is mnch larger than the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk. It runs obliquely downwards and forwards, passing on the inner side of the internal and external carotids (fig. 26,''), to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. Here it perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and di^^des into branches for the supply of the miicous membrane of the larynx (Section XVI). While beneath the internal carotid artery it fiu'nishes the following offset :—■ The external laryngeal branch (fig. 26,'^) descends on the inferior constrictor muscle to the side of the larjaix, and then beneath the sterno-thyroid to the crico-thyroid muscle in Avhich it ends. Near its origin it gives off a filament to join the upper cardiac branch of