DISSECTION OF THE TIPPER LIMB. 264 Subscapular a dorsal branch, wliich gives infra- scapular. Anterior and posterior circumflex. Muscular. Axillary vein: extent and relations; branches. Dissection of brachial plexus. Nerves entering brachial jilexus. Its situation and rela- tions. Tlie nerves fonn three cords around the artery, The siihscajmlar hranch (fig. 73, c) courses with a nerve of the same name along the subscapularis, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus, and the latissimus dorsi and teres muscles : it gives many offsets to the glands of the space. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal hranch round the edge of the subscapular muscle: this gives an infrascajndar offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dis- sected (p. 269). The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. The circumflex branches wind roimd the humerus below the sub- scapular muscle. The anterior is small, an^ passes outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps. The ])osterior is much larger, and disappears with the companion nerve between the subscapularis and teres major muscles. They will be followed in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 264). Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis muscle. The AXILLARY VEIN ((/) contimies upwards the basilic vein of the arm, and has the same extent as the axillary artery. It lies to the thoracic side of its artery, and receives corresponding thoracic and shoulder branches. Opposite the subscapular muscle it is joined externally by a large vein, wliich is formed by the union of the vense comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic veiii opens into it. Dissection. To follow out the branches of the brachial plexus, cut through the pectoralis minor near its insertion into the coracoid process, and turn it towards the chest, but without injuriag the thoracic nerves. The axillary A'essels are next to be divided below the second rib,* and to be drawn down with hooks; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS (fig. 74) results from the iuterlacement of the anterior branches of the lower four cervical nerves and the larger part of the first dorsal; and a slip is added to it above from the lowest nerve in the cervical plexus. It is placed successively in the neck and the axilla, and ends opposite the coracoid jjrocess in the nerves of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 71). The part beloAv the clavicle has the same relations to surromiding muscles as the axillary artery; and in it the nerve-trunks are disposed as follows :— As the plexus enters the axilla it consists of three cords, inner, outer, aird posterior, which lie together in a bundle on the outer side of the artery. Beneath the pectoralis minor the three cords embrace * The student must be careful not to cut tlie vessels liiglier than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.