274 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Insertion into radius Paxts cover ng it in common Avitli the coraco-bracliiaUs muscle (fig. 77) ; and the lomj head is attached to the npper part of the head of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder-joint (fig. 93). Muscular fibres spring from each tendinous head, and meet to fonn a fleshy belly, which is somewhat flattened from before Tmck. Inferiorly the biceps ends in a tendon, which is inserted into the tuberosity of the radius, having previously given off a slip to the fascia in front of the elbow. The muscle is supei-ficial except at the extremities. At the upper part it is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; and at the lower end the tendon dips into the hollow in front of and beneath the elbow. Beneath the biceps are the musculo-cutaneoas nei^e, the upper part of the humerus, and the brachialis anticus muscle, inner border Its inner border is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle theartery' °^ humerus, but above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle intervenes between them. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shonlder-joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius will be afterwards learnt. Action. It bends the elbow-joint, and acts powerfvdly in supinating the radius. When the body is hanging by the hands it will apply the scapula firmly to the humerus, and will assist in raLsing the tnmk. With the arm hanging and the radius fixed, the long head wiU assist the abductors in removing the limb from the side ; and after the limb is abducted, the short head will aid in restoring it to the pendent position. The CORACO-BRACHIALIS (fig. 77, h) is partly concealed by the biceps, and extends to the middle of the arm. Its origin is fleshy from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous short head of the biceps. Its fibres become tendinous below, and are inserted into a narrow mark on the inner side of the hiunerus, below the level of the deltoid : some of the fibres frequently end on au aponeurotic arch, which extends from the upper end of the humerus to the insertion of the muscle. The upper half of this muscle is beneath the pectoralis major (fig. 82) ; and its inner part projects beyond the short head of the biceps, forming a prominence in the axilla. Its insertion is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The coraco-brachialis lies over the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex vessels, and the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. Along the inner border are the large artery and nerves of the limb ; and the miiscido- cutaneous nerve perforates it. Action. The coraco-brachialis moves forwards the arm, and adducts it to the thorax. The BRACHIAL ARTERY (fig. SI,"*) is a Continuation of the axillary trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminates rather below the bend of the elbow, or opposite the neck of the mdius, in two branches—radial and ulnar, for the forearm. The vessel is internal to the humerus in the upper part of its but in front of the bone below the middle of the ann ; and Use on radius, and tlie trunk, on humerus. Coraco- brachialis : origin; insertion; and relations to surround- ing parts. Use on limb. Brachial artery ex- tends to elbow. Position to bone, and in the limb. course.