MAMMARY GLAND. 246 The Mamma is tlie gland for the secretion of the milk, and is omco^ of the situate on the lateral pai't of the front of the chest.* Re'^tin" on the sreat pectoral muscle, it is nearly hemispherical Form and in form, but most prominent at the inner and lower aspects. Its tlimensions and weight vary greatly. In a breast not enlarged by dimensions lactation, the width is commonly abont four inches. Longitudinally it extends from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the mamma ranges from six to and weight, eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises Position and the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This u°ppiei prominence is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly tnnied outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring— tiie areola the areola, aboiit an inch in width, the tint of which is influenced colom- is by the complexion of the body, and becomes darker during jjregnancy and lactation. The skin of the nipple and areola is ^J^^^^^^ provided Avith numerous papillte and glands ; and on the surface are " some small tubercles marldng the position of the latter. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in ^'^^j^^j^^ general form, though it is much less developed ; and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola jprovided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. The mamma is a compound racemose gland, and con- Structiire sists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct. A layer of areolar tissue, containing masses of fat, surrounds the Investing gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes; but between the lobules of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty substance. Some fibrous septa fix the gland fibrous to the skin, and support it; these are the ligamenta suspensoria of Astley Cooper. Vesicles. The little vesicles or alveoli at the ends of the most Vesicles, minute ducts are rounded in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye. Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules and lobes. A collection of the vesicles aromid their ducts Lobules and forms a lobule, and by the union of the lobules the lobes are pro- duced. Of these there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named Lactiferous from their office (jalactophorous; they converge to the areola, Avhere '^^^^^^' they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sinuses) of one-sixth to one-third of an inch in width. OnAvards from that spot the ducts become naiTower; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, are continued through tlie nipple, nearly parallel to one another, to * If the student has a male body, he may disregard the description of the mamma ; and if ihe body is a female, he may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure.