166 DISSECTION OP THE LARYNX. Ossification ol' laryngeal cartilages. In the adult the hyaline cartilages of the larynx are commonly to a greater or less extent (in old persons sometimes completely) converted into bone. The ossification begins in the thyroid and cricoid cartilages at about twenty years of age, the deposition of osseous matter in the former taking place first in the neighbourhood of the inferior cornu, and thence extending along the inferior and posterior borders; while in the cricoid two or three bony spots appear near the arytenoid articular surface on each side, and spread through the upper part of the cartUage. The arytenoid cartilages ossify later, from below upwards. The tendency to ossification is more marked in the male than in the female. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other ligaments xmite. together the cartilages, sometimes vnth. joints. Union of the larynx with the hyoid hone and the trachea. A loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends from the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The tMjro-hyoid membrane (fig. 42, l) is attached on the one hand to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other, to the upper border of the hyoid bone. Its central part, extending from the body of the hyoid bone to the margins of the notch in the thyroid cartilage, is of some thiclmess, but its lateral parts are thui and ill-defined. It ends behind in a rounded elastic cord on each side (lateral thyro-hji-oid ligament), uniting the extremity of the great comu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage : this band frequ.ently contains a small cartilaginous or osseous nodule (cartilago triticea). The superior larjmgeal nerve and vessels perforate the lateral part of the membrane ; and a synovial bursa is placed between its central part and the posterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea—crico-tracheal ligament, resembles the fibrous layer joinitig the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are united by a membrane in front, and a synovial joint on each side. The crico-thyroid membrane (fig. 44, occupies the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages ; and its right hfilf is now visible. It is of a yellow colour and is formed mainly of elastic tissue. By its lower border the membrane is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage, reacliing back to the articulation median part, with the arytenoid. Its central part is thick and strong, and is and lateral attached above to the lower border of the thyi'oid cartilage. The paits. lateral part is thinner, and is continued upwards beneath the ala of the thyi'oid cartilage, to end in a thickened border, which is attached behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage, constituting the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament in the true vocal cord (p. 161). Bolations. The central part of the membrane is partly exposed between the crico-thyroid muscles, and small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels into the larynx. The lateral part is separated fi-om the Ligaments of the laiynx-. To liyoid bone and tracliea. Tbyro-liyoid membrane: median and lateral parts. Lateral tliyro-liyoid ligament often contains a cartilage. Belations. Crico- tracheal membrane. Between cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Crico- thyroid membrane :