DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 620 Tub( 8 next becoiiio stiuight (tubuli recti), afterwards join toge- tlier (rote testis), and leave the glnnd as vasa efferentia. Excretoiy duct in two parts. Epididymis consisting of head, tail, and body; how fixed; formed of a coiled tube TiiJmli recti (fig. 164, c). The Sf^ininal tubes uniting together become narrower and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa recta : they pierce tlie fibrous mediastinum and eiitci- the rete testis. Bete testis (fig. 164, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have no proper walls (beyond epithelium), and are situate in tli«; anterior part, in Iront of the blood-vessels ; they coninmnicate I'reely so as to form a network. Vasa efferentia (fig. 164,/). From twelve to twenty tubes leuvc' the top of the rete, and issue Fig. 161. from the ujtper end of the testicle as the vasa efferentia : these are larger than tin- tubes with which they aic continuous, and end in thi- canal of the epididymis (part of the common excreto) y duct). Though straight at first, they soon become con- voluted, and have been named coni vasculosi. In the natural state they are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled they mea- sure six inches ; and they join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. The EXCRETOKY DUCT receives the vasa efferentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first pai-t, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and fonns the epididjTiiis ; but the remainder is comparatively straight, and is named vas deferens. The EPiDiDYJfis (fig. ] 64, h) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper pait of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major {(j) ; and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (i), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the body (li). It is attached to the testis, most closely at the en<ls, by fibrous tissue and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis, the globus major also by the vasa eft'erentia. The epididymis is formed of a single tube, bent in a zigzag way, the coils of which are united into a solid mass by fibrous tissue. * Vertical and horizontal sections of the testis, to show the arrangement of the septa and seminal tubes, a. Lobes of the testis, b. Septa between the lobes, c. Tubuli recti, d. Mediastinum testis, c Rete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. g. Globus major, /(. Body, and /. Globus minor of the epididy- mis, k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. j!. Hete testis, in section, o. Finer septn. p. KpididymLs, cut across, r. iMcdia&tinum, cut across.