CAYITY OF THE rilAEYNX. 127 mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx. , , ^ „ The space included between the root of the tongue and the solt Fauces, pilate if called the fauces. It is wider below than above ; and on each side lies the tonsil. The isthmus faucium (h) is the narrowed aperture of communica- Jjl^''^^'^^'^^^"'^ tinu between the mouth and the pharynx. It is bounded above by the soft palate, below by the tongue, and on the sides by the anterior pillars of the soft palate. Its size varies with the move- ments of these parts, and it can be closed by the meeting of the soft palate and the tongue. The aperture of the larynx (n) is wide in front, where it is UPP^i^_^ ■bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the aryte- Si^'J'xf ° noid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by folds (aryteno-epiglottidean) of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Behind it is limited by the comicula laryngis, and by the aryte- noid muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration this aperture is unobstructed, but in the act of deglutition it is closed by the epiglottis. The opening into the oesophagus (o) is the narrowest part of the Beginning o( pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the sixth cervical vertebra. At tliis spot the mucous membrane in the oesophagus becomes paler than in the pharynx; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular iibres. The cavity of the pharynx is divided into three parts, which Subdivision differ in their function with regard to the transmission of the food pharynx^"* and air. The upper or nasal piortion is limited below by the soft ^^^^ palate and its posterior pillars ; it gives passage only to aii-, and is always open. The middle or oral portion extends downwards to oral, the aperture of the larynx, and is traversed by both food and air ; it is open when breathing through the mouth, but closed when breathing solely through the nose, the aperture of the larynx then corresponding to the interval between the posterior pillars. The third part being behind the larynx is termed laryngeal, and only and laryu- transmits food; its waUs are naturally in contact, except during ffons'"^'^ the act of deglutition. The SOFT PALATE (velum pendulum palati, q) is a moveable Soft palate structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can either mout?iV'' close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the commimication with the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual sm-faces, position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) its anterior sttrface is concave, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth • while the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard iJoi-doM; palate ; and on each side it joins the pharynx. Tlie lower border from it is free, and is produced in the centre into a conical pendulous part '"^"K'' —the nvula (p). Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative ol the original separation into two halves.