DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 616 and of the l<wer part. Use ; tlie limb free, and fixed; standing on one leg. Divide the .sartorius, show apo- neiu'osis, and dissect the nerves and vessels. Aponeurosis over the femoral artery- ends below by a ft'ee border. Deep part of femoral artery: relations : position of veins and concealed by tliis portion of the muscle. The lower tendinous part (l) rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synovial bursa : from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion to join tliat from the extensor over the knee; and from its lower border is given ofl' another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears with vessels ; and piercing it is the patellar branch of the same nerve. Action. The tibia and femur being free to move, the muscle bend?; the knee and hip-joints over which it passes, giving rise to rotation inwards of the tibia, and outwards of the femur. With the limbs fixed, the two muscles will assist in bringing for- wards the pelvis in stooping; and when standing on one leg the muscle will help to rotate the body, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 192). The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut throiTgh if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral artery. Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; this is thin above, and when it is divided the internal saphenous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the saphenous nerve above, but outside it, is the nerve to the vastus internns muscle, which sends an offset on the surface of the vastus to the knee-joint: this may be traced now, lest it should be destroyed afterwards. The plexus of nerves on the iimer side of the thigh may be more completely dissected at this stage. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises : this branch is to be pursued through the fibres of the vastus internus, and in front of the adductor magnus tendon, to the knee; an offset of it is to be followed ^vith the saphenous nerve. The aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels (fig. 192, ') exists only where these are covered by the sartorius. It is thin above ; but below, it is formed of strong fibres, which are directed transversely between the vastus intermis and the tendons of the adductor muscles. Inferiorly, the membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its vessels escape. The DEEP PART OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY (fig. 192, lies in a hollow between the muscles (Hunter's canal) imtil it reaches the opening in the adductor magnus. It is covered by the sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integu- ments and fascia. Beneath it are the pectineus, the adductor brevis in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. The femoral vein lies close to the artery, on its posterior and outer aspect; and in the integuments oftentunes an offset of tlie saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk.