DISSECTION OF THE THI&H. ends ill two branches. Obturator externus is inserted into pit of trochanter; rehitions; use. Saoro-sciatic ligaments: large, and small: form two foramina; small, with contents; large, and parts pass- ing through it. of tlie trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries, and supplies the hone. The other (transverse; h) passes between the quadratus and adductor magnus to the hamstring mus- cles, and communicates with the perforating arteries. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 197, l) has been dissected at its origin in the front of the thigh (p. 630). The part of the muscle now laid bare winds below the hip-joint, and ascends to be inserted into the pit at the root of the troclianter. On the back of the pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur where it is exposed between that muscle and the inferior gemellus (fig. 195, f). Its deep surface is in contact with the capsule of the hij)-joint and the neck of the femur. Action. Like the quadratus femoris, it rotates out the femur in all positions of the limb : it is also to a slight extent an adductor and flexor of the hip-joint. The SACRO-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the sacrum and coccyx to the ischium : they are two in number, and are named great and smalL The great or posterior ligament (fig. 197, p) is attached above to the posterior inferior iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and below, to the inner margin of the ischial tuberosity, sending forwards a prolongation along the ramus of the bone : some of the su]3erficial fibres are continued over the tuberosity into the long head of the biceps. It is wide next the sacrum, and becomes narrower below; but it is somewhat expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. Branches of the sciatic artery and a cutaneou.s nerve from the sacral plexus perforate it. The small or anterior ligament passes from the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial spine. This band is more fully seen in the dissection of the pelvis (p. 591). These ligaments convert the deep sacro-sciatic notch of the dried pelvis into two foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the hip-bone is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator muscle with its nerve and vessels, and the pudic vessels and nerve. And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis muscle, with the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the obturator internus and quadratus femoris below it. Section III. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. Directions. The ham or popliteal space may be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less disturbed state than if it was dissected after the examination of the muscles at tlie back