369 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Fig. 110. The branches of the lower sit ganglia arc larger and much whiter than the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of the abdomen: these are three in number (large, small, and smallest) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solai' and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives roots appa- ently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high as the third ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebrae, it pierces the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar gang- lion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. The small splanchnic nerve begins in the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly through the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the coeliac artery. The smallest splanchnic nerve springs from the last ganglion, and accompanies the other nerves through the diaphragm ; in the abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent, and its place is then taken by an offset of the preceding. of lower six, large, and form great splanchnic to semilunar ganglion ; small splanchnic to coeliac plexus; smallest splanchnic to renal plexus. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, soft parts with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs is a [^"^horax thin fleshy layer at the back,—the subcostals. The base of the thorax is formed by the diaphragm. The SUBCOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of fleshy fibres, which Subcostals: are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- ' costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise * Scheme to illustrate the connection between the spinal and sympathetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganglion, c. 6. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, c. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. g. Ganglia on the cord. h. White offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nerve, i.- Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve. B B