525 ACTION OF THE DIAPHRAGM. The opening for the vena cava (foramen cjuaclratuui ; h) is situ- For the between the middle and right divisions of the central tendon ; id its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres. Tliere is a fit^mrc (j) in each pillar for the three splanchnic Fissures ia .. rves ; and through that m the left cms the small azygos vein also passes. Action of the diaphragm. By the contraction of the muscular fibres ^so in^^,^^^^ the tendon is moved downwards, and the arch of the diaphragm is '^''r""^ '"" lessened in inspiration; and during their relaxation, the centre of the muscle is elevated, and the height of the vault increased in ex- piration, owing to tlie elasticity of the lungs, and the pressure of the viscera below, which are forced upwards by the action of the abdominal muscles (p. 442). In the descent of the diaphragm, the parts of the tendon move Central part imequally, in consequence of diiferences in their relations, and in the length of the fleshy fibres connected with them. Thus, the central lobCj above which the heart is placed, moves least; while the lateral lobes, which are below the lungs, descend more freely, left part the right, however, less than the left, owing to the presence of the ^"gJa^e liver. It is estimated that the central lobe of the tendon moves descent in downwards in full inspiration about two-fifths of an inch, the right tlon."'^^''^*' lobe twice as much, and the left lobe one inch (Hasse). In forced Height in ■ lorcocl expiration the muscle reaches as high as the fourth rib on the right expiration, side, and the fifth on the left, close to the sternum. "With the movement of the diaphragm the size of the cavities of Effect on the abdomen and thorax will be altered. By its descent the thoi'ax abdomen"^ is enlarged, and the abdomen diminished ; and the viscera in the on viscera, upj)er part of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach, and sj)leen, are partly moved from beneath the ribs. By its ascent the cavity of the thorax is lessened, and that of the abdomen is restored lo its former size ; and the displaced viscera return to their usual place. By the contraction of the fibres the aperture for the oesophagus will and on be rendered smaller, and that tube may be compressed ; but the ^i'*^'^*'^^'''^'^- other openings for the vena cava and aorta are not materially changed. The action of the diaphragm is commonly involuntary, but it is Action in- perfectly under the control of the will. voluntary. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt, the ribs that Take away support it on each side may be cut through, and the loose pieces of of'tiic'^ ^"^"^^ bone with the fore part of the diaphragm may be taken away, to diaphragm, facilitate the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior third of the diaphragm, with its pillars and arches, should he left ; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their orighi. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena Clean aort;; cava, are to be cleaned by removing the fat, the remains of the branclTes^; •sympathetic plexuses, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches arc to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and suprarenal body, and to the testicle. In like manner the large iliac branches also iliac of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament.