374 DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. ^lotion of (-•artiliiges. Maiiubiium .iml body of sternuiu. Two sets of ligaments unite the vertebrte. How to see the several lik'aiiients. The bodies are uiiited by:- ATitorior connnoii ligament: form and thickness; extent of fibres; Each joint is surrounded by a short capsule, and is supported in front by strong fibres of the anterior intercostal aponeurosis (p. 258). The ends of the eighth, ninth and tenth cartilages are united each to the cartilage above by bands of fibrous tissue. Moveme7its. There is only a limited degree of movement in the chondro-sternal and interchondral articulations, the cartilages bein^ elevated, with the ribs in inspiration, and sinking in expiration. Articulation of the Sternum. The manubrium and body of the sternum are united by a piece of cartilage, with anterior and posterior longitudinal filjres. In some cases there Ls a cavity resulting from the absorption of the central portion of the cartilage. There is no appreciable movement between the pieces of the sternum, but the articulation aids in giving elasticity to the front of the chest. Articulations of the Vertebra. The vertebraj are united together by two sets of ligaments,— one for the bodies, and the other for the arch and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will suffice except for those between the first two vertebrse and the head, and those of the pelvis. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the preparation of the ligaments of the bodies of the vertebras. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be defined with very little trouble, by removing the areolar tissue. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae is laid bare ; but if the canal should not be open, the neural arches of the vertebras are to be removed by sawing through the pedicles. The remaining ligaments be- tween the neural arches, spines, and articular processes of the bones maybe dissected on the piece taken away in opening the sj)inal canal. Ligaments of the bodies. The bodies of the ^•ertebra3 are united by an anterior and a posterior common ligament, with an inter- vening piece of fibro-cartUage. The anterior common ligament (fig. 112, a) reaches from the axis to the sacrum. It is narrow above and wide below ; and it also in- creases in thickness from above downwards. Its fibres are longitudinal ; and by detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial ones will be seen to extend over Fig. 112.* * a. Anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertcbr.T. /». Lateral short fibres.