DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. 234 Floor objects in it are a median grove, fasciculus teres. iuiditory striK, superior and inferior fovea, ala cinei'ea, auditory tubercle, nucleus of sixth nerve and locus cairuleus. Tiie floor of the ventricle (fig. 70) is constituted by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is greyish in colour. Along the centre is a median groove, -which ends below, near the point of the calamus, in a minute hole—the aperture of tlic canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped eleva- tion, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (ft). This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and Avell defined below, but less distinct above. Its widest part is opposite the centre of the ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, at the loAver border of the pons, •pjg » are some white lines—the audi- tory stria; {a st), which vary much in their arrangement: they issue from the median groove, and 23ass outwards to the auditoiy nerve (p. 190). The fasciculus teres is limited externally by two small depres- sions—the superior and inferior fovea}, separated by the auditory strise. The superior (fs) is the broader, and is connected to the lower one by a faint groove. The inferior fovea (fi) is well marked,, and has the form of the letter V inverted. The triangular portion between the two branches is of a darker colour than the surface on each side, and is named the ala cinerea (fig. 71, ac) : it corre- sponds to the nucleus of the vagus nerve. On the outer side of the fovea the surface is elevated over the principal nucleus of the auditory nerve, forming the auditory tubercle (at), which is crossed by the auditory stria3. In the upper half of the floor of the ventricle there may be seen, on the imier side of the superior fovea, a rounded elevation of the fasciculus teres, produced by the nucleus of the sixth ner\'e, with the deep part of the facial arching round it (p. 189). And lastly, above the suj)erior fovea is a narrow, slightly depressed area of a bluish colour (locus ceeruleus), caused by a deposit of very dark grey substance (substantia ferruginea) beneath the thin surface-layer. * Back of medulla oblongata and pons, showing the floor of the fourth ventricle. /. Fillet, sp. Superior, vip. Middle, and ip. Inferior peduncle of the cerebellum : attached to the superior peduncle on the left side is the half of the superior medullary velum, covered by the lingula. ft. Fasciculus teres, fs. Superior fovea, fi. Inferior fovea. a st. Auditory stria;. rb. Restifonn body. cl. Clava. Crossing the re.stiform body of the right side, below the auditory striie, is the ligula.