VISCERA OF THE THORAX OUT OF THE BODY. 257 4. Orifices of the Pulmonary Vessels.—The orifices of the pulmonary arteries and veins, present at the internal surfaces of the lungs, right and left, in the vicinity of the points of entrance of the bronchi, right and left. Dissection.—The bronchial tubes, pulmonary arteries, and pulmonary veins should be slit open and traced into the substance of the lungs, to note their respective bifurcations, etc. HEAET. 1. Heart, Plate 144.—This organ is a hollow muscular or- gan, having a characteristic conical shape; it has a base, and an apex ; an anterior and a posterior surface—when spoken of in situ (Plates 141 and 142); a right-heart and a left-heart surface (Plate 144)—when the organ is considered structurally. The adult heart has an average weight of about ten ounces, varying as to sex. Septa partition off four cavities within the walls of the heart: a longitudinal septum determines the, so-called, right and left hearts ; a transverse septum is common to both sides of the organ. Of the transverse septum: its right por- tion—the right auriculo-ventricular septum—sets off a superior cavity, the right auricle, from an inferior cavity, the riglit ven- tricle ; its left portion—the left auriculo-ventricular septum— separates a superior cavity, the left auricle, from an inferior cavity, the left ventricle. Of the longitudinal septum : its superior portion—inter auricular septum—separates the right from the left auricle ; its inferior portion—interventricular septum—partitions between the right and the left ventricle. A subpericardial areolar tissue, with more or less adipose tis- sue along the cardiac vessels (coronary), lies between the vis- ceral portion of the pericardium and the muscle wall of the organ. The base of the heart presents eight vessels : six con- verging to it, the vena cava superior, the vena cava inferior, | and the four pulmonary veins; ■ two projected from it, the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The apex of the heart is formed by the inferior portion of the left ventricle. Dissection.—Place the heart on a dissecting board, with the right-heart ; surface (right auricle and right ventricle) uppermost. Dissect off the visceral I portion of the pericardium from the right-heart surface; clear the right auric- ulo-ventricular, and the right and left interventricular furrows free of adipose 17