LOWER EXTREMITY. 112 ligament, the femoral vein, the femoral artery, the femoral canal and the anterior crural nerve. The two vessels and the canal are contained in the femoral sheath, with only a thin fibrous septum between them. At its proximal end the femoral vein is to the inner side of the artery ; toward the apex of the triangle it passes posterior to the artery. To the outer side of the vein is the femoral artery; within the triangle it gives off its recurrent branches, which perforate the fascia lata (page 108), to pass into the subcutaneous plane of the abdominal parietes and to the external genitalia—the superficial circum- flex iliac, the superficial epigastric, and the superior and in- ferior external pudics; the profunda femoris artery is also given off from, its posterior surface, at a variable distance from Poupart's ligament. To the inner side of the proximal end of the femoral vein a short canal exists—the femoral canal; it extends as a pouch of the femoral sheath, and is about one inch in length. At its proximal limit the femoral canal opens into the abdominal cavity by the femoral ring, which is bounded, as follows : by the femoral vein, externally ; ^ the superior border of the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, inte- riorly ; Gimbernat's ligament, internally; and Poupart's liga- ment, superiorly. The anterior crural nerve lies to the outer side of the femoral artery, being separated from it by a slight interval; to it can be traced the middle and internal cutaneous nerves ; the internal saphenous nerve may be followed down from it to the femoral artery ; its deep or muscular branches take a distal course, disappearing beneath the sartorius mus- cle ; a branch to the pectineus muscle passes internally, in a plane posterior to the femoral vessels. Dissection.—Section the sartorius muscle (Plate 61) and reflect its por- tions, superiorly and inferiorly. (The reflected portions of the sartorius mus- cle should not be cut close to their attachments, as is represented in Plate 62). Abduct the thigh and semiflex the knee, resting the foot upon its outer border. 22. Hunter's Canal, Plate 62.—Beneath the portion of the sartorius muscle distal from Scarpa's triangle, a layer of fibrous tissue (a portion of the sheath of the sartorius) stretches from the anterior surfaces of the adductor longus and magnus muscles to the inner surface of the vastus interims muscle. A triangular canal—Hunter's Canal—-is formed as follows: by the fascia of the sartorius anteriorly and to the inner side; the