TRUNK. to the right, superiorly, recognize the broad and round ligaments of the liver ; at the middle and to the left is the stomach, with the spleen capping its fun- dus ; inferiorly, is the great omentum, through which the contour of the trans- verse colon may be felt. Introduce the hand beneath the great omentum and feel—in the middle—the convolutions of the small intestine and the un- der surface of the transverse colon; to the right, the ascending colon and caecum ; to the left, the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure ; inferiorly, the superior contours of the pelvic organs. Return the hand out of the cavity along the interior of the anterolateral or parietal layer of the greater perito- neum. 4. Greater Peritoneum and Cavity of tlae Greater Peri- toneum, Plates 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, and 37.—The greater peri- toneum is spread, and forms its cavity, as follows: it invests the anterior of the inferior concave surface of the diaphragm (Plate 31); passes from the diaphragm to the stomach, by the oesophagus, and to the antero-superior surface of the liver—as the broad (Plate 30), the anterior layer of the coronary and the lateral ligaments ; from the anterior of the liver it passes to its postero-inferior surface ; from the latter surface it bridges to the lesser curvature of the stomach, as the antero-superior layer of the anterior portion of gastro-hepatic omentum ; thence it spreads over the anterior surface of the stomach (Plate 31). From the greater curvature of the stomach it bridges to the transverse colon—the anterior of two layers of serous mem- brane ; from the colon it is dropped (Plate 31), and then returns upon itself—great omentum—-to the inferior surface of the transverse colon, from which it is projected to the posterior wall of the abdomen (Plate 31). At the right of the posterior wall of the abdomen it covers the duodenum, the ascending colon, and caecum (Plate 34)—forming the ascending meso-colon and the meso-ceecum. To the left it is projected, from the line of attachment of the mesentery (Plate 34), as its right layer, which reduplicates by investing the jejunum and ileum ; it re- turns upon itself, to its line of attachment, as the left layer of the mesentery. To the left of the mesentery attachment it spreads to the descending colon and sigmoid flexure (Plate 35)—forming the descending meso-colon and the meso-sigmoid. From the meso-caecum, to the right, the meso-sigmoid, to the left, and the mid-portion of the posterior of the abdominal wall, it passes into the pelvic cavity (Plates 35 and 37), covering the superior por- tions of the pelvic viscera—forming the meso-rectum, and liga-