ANTERIOR OF THIGH. 109 6. External Cutaneous tferve—This nerve becomes sub- cutaneous at a variable point inferior to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. It distributes to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the outer border of the thigh. 7. The Middle Cutaneous IVerve.—This branch of the an- terior crural nerve emerges through the fascia at the anterior face of the thigh, from which point it continues subcutane- ously to the knee. 8. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve.—This nerve, branch of the anterior crural, emerges, by several branches, through the fascia lata, at the inner and anterior areas of the thigh. Dissection.—Clear the surface of the fascia free of subcutaneous tissue, allowing the cutaneous nerves and vessels to remain upon it. 9. Fascia L.ata.—This is the special name given to the fas- cia of the thigh. It is a thick sheet of fibrous tissue, which swathes the limb; having its proximal attachments to Poupart's ligament, the linea-ilio pectinea, the pubic arch, the tuberosity of the ischium, the posterior surfaces of the coccyx and sa- crum, and the exterior lip of the crest of the ilium ; and its dis- tal attachments to the inner and outer tuberosities of the proximal end of the tibia, the proximal end of the fibula and the fascia of the leg. Dissection.—Determine the two anterior proximal planes of the fascia lata. Follow the internal saphenous vein to the saphenous opening; define the bor- ' ders of the opening, and also the cribriform fascia, which closes the same. Seek the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, coming through the opening. 10. Saphenous Opening.—This opening or deficiency in the fascia lata results, from the splitting of the fascia, at the inner side of the proximal end of the thigh: an outer, superficial portion—the iliac—is attached to Poupart's ligament; an inner, deep portion—the pubic—is attached to the superior border of the horizontal ramus of the os pubis. The iliac portion lies anterior to the femoral vessels, with its inner border upon the femoral vein, where it is curved to form the superior, the outer, and the inferior limits of the opening—the falciform edge; the pubic portion passes posterior to the femoral vessels. The two planes meet, and join at the superior and inferior limits of an ovoid opening, which affords transit to the internal saphe-