334 HEAD AND NECK. superior maxillary bone, externally to the osseous anterior naris, and superiorly to the eminence formed by the root of the lateral incisor tooth (Plate 181) ; its fibres pass over the fleshy portion of the nose and meet those of its fellow of the opposite side at a median-line, fibrous, raphe. Dissection.—Section (Plate 183) the temporo-facial division of, and the buccal branch of the cervico-facial division of, the facial nerve, also the masseter muscle ; dissect away the branches of the nerve, and the superior portion of the muscle—in removing the latter find (Plate 184) the nerve and artery to the masseter muscle. Expose the external lateral ligament of the right temporo- maxillary articulation. 23. tferve and Artery of the Masseter Muscle, Fig. 2, Plate 184.—This nerve and artery—branches, respectively, of the motor root of the fifth cranial nerve, and the internal maxillary artery—emerge from the deep region of the face, through the sigmoid notch of the inferior maxillary bone, to enter the in- ternal surface of the muscle. Dissection.—Dissect away (Plate 183) the stumps of the zygomaticus ma- jor, zygomaticus minor, levator labii superioris alseque nasi muscles, and the levator labii superioris proprius muscle. Section (Plate 183) the facial vein, also the facial artery and its branches ; dissect away the superior portions of the two vessels. Display (Fig. 2, Plate 184), the infra-orbital nerve and artery and find the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary division of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve externally to the buccinator muscle; clear the sur- faces of the buccinator and levator anguli oris muscles. 24. Buccinator Muscle, Plate 181 ; Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; Plate 183 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184.—This muscle of the intermaxillary region, forms the muscle plane of the cheek. It is attached, posteriorly and externally, to the superior and inferior maxil- lary bones, respectively, within the area of the molar teeth (Plate 181); also to a fibrous raphe, the pterygo-maxillary liga- ment (Plate 201), between it and the superior constrictor mus- cle of the pharynx. Its fibres converge anteriorly and in- ternally to fuse with the orbicularis oris muscle—opposite, superiorly to, and inferiorly to the angle of the lips (Fig. 2, Plate 184). It is perforated, as before described (page 330), by Stenson's duct of the parotid gland. 25. Levator Anguli Oris Muscle, Plates 181, 182, and 183 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184.—This muscle is attached: superiorly, to the