GLUTEAL AKD POSTERIOR THIGH REGIONS. 165 cutaneous plane of the proximal portion of the posterior region of the leg (page 152 ; Plate 84). Dissection.—Eeplace the limb upon the table. Section the small sciatic nerve at its proximal end (Plate 94) ; cut its distal portion away. 6. Vastus Extern sis Muscle, Plates 91 and 94.—The pos- terior surface of this muscle occupies the outer border of the posterior of the thigh—from the trochanter major to within a short distance of the outer condyle of the femur ; it is attached to the outer lip of the linea aspera of the femur. 7. Biceps Muscle, Plate 94.—The long head of this muscle is projected into the posterior region of the thigh, from the anterior surface and inferior border of the gluteus maximus muscle; it takes an oblique course to the outer side of the knee. A part of the attachment of its short head—to the linea aspera of the femur—is seen between its long head and the vas- tus externus muscle. 8. Semitendinosus Muscle.—This muscle appears from the anterior surface of the gluteus maximus muscle, at the inferior border of the latter ; it runs along the inner side of the long head of the biceps, to which it is apposed, to about the distal third of the thigh, where the two diverge—the semitendinosus passing to the inner side of the knee. 9. Gracilis Muscle.—This muscle presents at the internal surface of the thigh (page 111; Plates 61 to 65, inclusive). Its posterior edge forms the inner border of the posterior sur- face of the thigh; its distal end may be traced to its attach- ment to the inner tuberosity of the tibia and the fascia of the . leg. 10. Semimembranosus Muscle.—This muscle is lodged in a plane anterior to the biceps (long head) and the semimem- branosus muscles. It is projected from the anterior surface of the gluteus maximus muscle : the proximal half of its in- ner portion occupies the interval between the semitendinosus and the gracilis muscles ; its distal portion appears in the divergence of the semitendinosus and biceps muscles. A por- tion of its anterior surface appeared in the dissection of the an-