PAETS OF THE BRAIN. 427 % Plate 220). Anteriorly, at its median-line portion, between its superior peduncles is the lingula (Fig. 2, Plate 220 ; Fig. 1, Plate 221), which in situ, rests upon the superior surface of the valve of Vieussens, between the processi e cerebello ad testes (Fig. 2, Plate 222). Along the median line of its inferior surface is a depressed area, the vallecula, within which is lo- cated the inferior portion of the transverse commissure between the hemispheres, the inferior vermiform process (Fig. 2, Plate 220). The latter process presents, in order antero-posteriorly, several distant prominences : the nodule, the uvula, the pyra- mid, and the tuber uvulce. Laterally, there pass from the nodule to the right and left flocculus of the hemispheres, re- spectively, a thin band of white neural tissue, the right and left inferior medullary velum (Fig. 2, Plate 220). The inferior surface of a hemisphere of the cerebellum presents, near its external lateral border, a horizontal fissure. Minor fissures (not named) divide this surface of a hemisphere into areas, named as follows : externally to the horizontal fissure is the inferior face of the postero-superior lobe; internally and anteriorly to the horizontal fissure are the postero-inferior lobe, the slender lobe, the biventral lobe, the flocculus, and the amygdala. Dissection.—Turn the cerebellum so as to present its superior surface (Fig. 1, Plate 221). 43. Superior Surface of the Cerebellum, Fig. 1, Plate 221. —At this area of the cerebellum is seen the posterior notc7i, which divides the organ into a right and a left hemisphere. The superior part of its median-line, commissural, portion pre- sents the superior vermiform process, which is surmounted by a part of the lingula. At this surface of a cerebellar hemi- sphere are found the following defined areas : the partial su- perior face of the poster o-inferior lobe, is at its postero-inter- nal border; a part of the horizontal fissure divides the latter lobe from the postero-superior lobe ; and anteriorly to the lat- ter lobe is the antero-superior lobe. Dissection.—Place the cerebellum upon its superior surface, with its pos- terior border toward you, and section its hemispheres (Fig. 2, Plate 221) as follows : the right, by a transverse antero-posterior cut, near the middle of its vertical diameter ; the left, by a transverse vertical cut at about the middle of its antero-posterior diameter.