OKBITAL CAVITY. 343 cavity to the orbit, by the optic foramen. The posterior of its intra-orbital portion curves internally, to cross superiorly to the optic nerve ; it then advances, obliquely, to the internal side of the anterior portion of the orbit, where it terminates by bifurcation, interiorly to the trochlea of the obliquus superior muscle. Its branches are : the superior and inferior muscu- lar to the intra-orbital muscles; the supra-orbital before de- scribed (page 338) and illustrated (Plate 185, right orbit) ; the ciliary, which run anteriorly, superiorly to the optic nerve, to enter the posterior of the eyeball; the posterior and the anterior ethmoidal, which leave the orbital cavity, at its internal wall, by the posterior and the anterior ethmoidal foramen, respec- tively ; at its terminus it bifurcates into the frontal and nasal arteries (page 337 ; Plate 184). 17. Optic Nerve, Plate 186 (left side).—This, the second cranial nerve, leaves the cranial cavity, with the ophthalmic artery, by the optic foramen, and enters the posterior or apex of the orbit. Its intra-orbital portion advances anteriorly, and a little externally, to its entrance into the eyeball, at its posterior surface. As lodged it is surrounded by fat, in which arteries and nerves run parallel with it—the ciliary (pages 341 and 342). 18. Rectu§ Externus Muscle, Plates 181 and 185.—This muscle is attached: posteriorly, to the orbital surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, externally to the optic fora- men (superior head), and at the inferior border of the sphenoidal fissure (inferior head) ; anteriorly, at the external area and to the sclerotic coat, of the eyeball, near the cornea. Dissection.—Cut tlie following parts (Plate 186, left orbit) : the oph- thalmic artery ; the motor root of the ophthalmic ganglion ; the nasal nerve ; also the ciliary arteries and nerves as they enter the eyeball (as in Plate 186, right side). Dissect away the ophthalmic ganglion, nasal nerve, and ophthal- mic artery. In removing the artery find the arteria centralis retinae, and cut it near its entrance into the optic nerve (Plate 186, right orbit). Cut the optic ii2rve (Plate 186, right orbit), and remove the included portion. Section the rectus externus muscle (Plate 186, right orbit) and dissect away its anterior portion. Tilt the eyeball (by a loop of thread), anteriorly and infe- riorly ; trace the inferior branch of the oculomotor nerve ; clear the surfaces of the rectus internus, rectus inferior, and obliquus inferior muscles. 19. Arteria Centralis Retinae, Plate 186 (right orbit).—This small artery, a branch of the ophthalmic—opposite the anterior