250 TRUNK. gastric nerve, anteriorly, and the left vertebral artery, pos- teriori • it runs parallel with, and superiorly to, the external and superior part of the first portion of the left subclavian artery • at this point it passes anteriorly to the left inferior thyroid artery, near the origin of the latter from the thyroid axis ; it enters between the left internal jugular vein, ante- riorly and the scalenus anticus muscle, posteriorly ; it curves abruptly, interiorly, at the external border of the left internal iugular vein ; it is then continued to where it opens into the left subclavian vein, externally to the junction of the latter with the left internal jugular vein. In the latter portion of its course it lies anteriorly to the left phrenic nerve, the left supra-scapular artery, and the left scalenus anticus muscle. DissECTJON.-Dissect the pleura, right and left, from the superior surface of the diaphragm, and locate its caval, oesophageal, and aortic openings. 44. Diaphragm, Fig. 1, Plate 140.-The superior surface of this muscle has, when the abdominal viscera are in situ, an anteroposterior and a lateral convexity ; it rises higher on the right side than the left; its circumferential muscle portion and its tendinous centre are easily defined. It slopes to its circumferential attachments to the interior of the inferior por- tion of the thoracic parietes and (crural attachments) to the interior of the posterior parietes of the abdomen (page 81 . Its caval, oesophageal, and aortic openings are located, as follows: the first, to the right of the median line, and somewhat an- teriorly; the second, to the left of the median line, and some- what anteriorly ; the third, on the median line, and posteriorly, opposite the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. DxssECTiON.-The thoracic viscera may now be dissected or left till later, at the option of the dissector; they will be demonstrated next in order Care should be taken to keep the interior of the posterior wall of the thorax moj so as to facilitate the dissection of the articulations of the dorsal vertebra with each other, and those of the ribs with the dorsal vertebra.