POSTEEIOR REGION OF LEG AND POPLITEAL SPACE. 161 Dissection.—Clear the posterior surface of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles; determine the continuity of the two muscles from the outer side of the leg into the plantar region of the foot (Plate 89). 56. Peroneus Longus Muscle, Fig. 2, Plate 67 ; Plates 75, 80, 88, 89, and 90.—The anterior surface of this muscle has been described (page 129) and illustrated (Plates 72, 73, and 74). The posterior surface of the muscle occupies the proximal half of the outer side of the leg. It is attached to the proximal half of the outer side of the shaft of the fibula ; its tendon commences at about the middle of the leg and is continued to the posterior surface of the external malleolus, distal to which it winds to the minim border of the tarsal region of the foot, where it enters a groove at the outer side of the cu- boid bone ; by this groove it is directed obliquely across the bases of the metatarsal bones, to its distal attachment to the outer side of the base of the first metatarsal bone (Plates 75, and 79 to 82, inclusive). Where lodged in the groove of the cuboid bone the tendon contains a sesamoid bone. In the plantar region, the tendon of the muscle is held in its osseous groove by a fibrous sheath, which is formed by the distal end of the long calcaneocuboid ligament. 57. Peroneus Brevis Muscle.—The anterior surface of this muscle has been described (page 129) and illustrated (Plates 72, 73, and 74). It is attached to the distal half of the outer side of the shaft of the fibula. Its tendon lies upon the poste- rior surface of the external malleolus, distal to which it winds (Plate 89) to the minim border of the tarsal region, where it passes to its distal attachment, at the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Dissection.—Cut the sutures uniting the cut tendons of the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor longus digitorum muscles (page 149). Eeflect the prox- imal portions of these muscles and cut them away from their areas of bone attachment (Plate 83). Cut the posterior tibial nerve opposite the tibial at- tachment of the soleus muscle (Plate 90). Section the posterior tibial artery, distal to its giving off of the peroneal artery (Plate 90). Trace the peroneal artery and its branches. 5§. Peroneal Artery, Plates 88 and 90.—This arterj^ (vena3 comites) has a distal course parallel with, and to the inner side of, the fibula, between the flexor longus pollicis muscle, pos-