INTRODUCTION. 2 in a subsequent descriptive-anatomy paragraph heading ; then, it or they become the Plate or Plates to be worked with. Of Right and Left Parts.—In the dissection and descrip- tive-anatomy paragraphs, and in the Plates, only the parts of one side are referred to or illustrated ; the dissector must make the necessary transposition, which his dissection may require. Section Lines on the Parts.—Particular attention is called to tlie black lines crossing parls in the plates ; they indicate the points where parts are to be sectioned, that the same may be reflected. A part is only to be sectioned, at that stage of the dissection, where it is so directed in a dissection par- agraph; if parts are sectioned out of order, it leads to in- completeness in the work done. Dissection directions will sometimes state that muscles, etc., are to be reflected, while in the Plate, worked by, they are cut short or even cut away. The dissection directions are to be followed without regard to the Plates; the latter are drawn to show parts to the best advantage. Reproduction of Plates.—In using the Plates as guides to dissection, it must not be supposed by the dissector that he is to reproduce them severally on the subject. They are to be referred to as indicated in the descriptive anatomy and dissec- tion paragraphs. The same part may appear in several Plates, from different points of view, but, collectively, they afford a clearer idea of the part, and its relations, than could be given in a single Plate. Abnormalities.—In the descriptive-anatomy paragraphs no references are made to abnormalities; for these, one of the standard text-books on descriptive anatomy may be consulted. The Plates present the normal anatomy. Terms of Relation.—The general terms used in describing the relations of parts in the dissections, are as follows : an- terior and posterior, refer to those surfaces of the body, re- spectively ; superior and inferior, as toward the head or feet; external and internal, relatively to the median line of the