ANTERIOR OF THORAX, AXILLA, AND ARM. 201 riorly to the external fold of the axilla, giving off the dorsal scapular artery; it also affords muscle branches to the sub- scapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and serratiis magnus muscles. 42. I>or§al Scapular Artery.—This artery (vense comites) is the first and largest branch given off from the subscapular ; it winds to the dorsum of the scapula, through the space between the subscapularis and teres major muscles. 43. Anterior Circumflex Artery, Plates 117, 119, and 120. —This artery (vena comes) arises from the superior surface of the axillary artery ; it passes posteriorly to the coraco-brachi- alis and the biceps (its two heads) muscles, disappearing pos- teriorly to the anterior border of the deltoid muscle. 44. Posterior Thoracic Nerve, Plates 116, 117, 119, and 120.—This nerve has an inferior course, into the axilla, from the cervical portion of the brachial plexus ; it lies upon the surface of the serratus magnus muscle, distributing branches to it. 45. Subscapular Nerves (First and Second) to the Sub- scapularis and Latissimus Dorsi Muscles.—These nerves can be traced, superiorly and internally, from the axillary sur- faces of the muscles, toward the axillary portion of the brachial plexus. Dissection—Clear the surfaces of the portions of the triceps and pronator radii teres muscles at the inner side of the arm; expose the long and the inner heads of the former muscle. Display the axillary vein, the median, the ulnar, the internal cutaneous, the small internal cutaneous, and the intercosto- humeral nerves through the portion of the axilla externally to the pectoralis minor muscle. Trace the axillary vein and the nerves into the arm. 46. ^ Triceps Muscle, Plates 113, and 116 to 120, inclusive. —The inner side of the long and the inner heads of this muscle present at the posterior part of the inner side of the arm. lhe long head comes out, from the direction of the shoulder (Plate 113), posteriorly to the humeral end of the teres major muscle. 47. Pronator Radii Teres Muscle, Plates 113, 116, and 118.—The proximal portion of this muscle appears at the inner