ABDOMINAL VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. 91 sure for the vena cava to the right and the fissure for the ductus venosus to the left; the lobus caudatus extends from the lobus Spigelii into the right lobe, between the right extremity of the transverse fissure and the inferior end of the fissure for the vena cava ; the left lobe to the left of the fissure for the ductus veno- sus and the umbilical fissure. The liver is partially invested by peritoneum. The greater peritoneum projects the two layers of the broad or suspensory ligament to the antero-superior surface of the organ, which spread therefrom right, left, superiorly and interiorly: supe- riorly, it extends to the border of the organ, to become the su- perior portion of the coronary and the lateral ligaments ; infe- riorly, it reaches the border of the viscus and then passes to its postero-inferior face, and, at the inferior limit of the transverse fissure, it is reflected to the lesser curvature of the stomach, as the anterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum. The lesser peritoneum invests the postero-inferior surface of the liver su- perior to the transverse fissure, and, from the superior limit of the fissure, it is reflected as the posterior layer of the gastro- hepatic omentum. At the fissures and the area included by the portions of the coronary ligament, the peritoneum is want- ing ; at the latter point the organ is in contact with the dia- phragm. The cut surface of the liver presents a dull red color and a dense somewhat granular structure ; the dilated orifices of the hepatic veins appear, while the hepatic arteries are closed. 16. Hepatic Artery, Plates 52 and 48.—This vessel was de- scribed (page 63) and illustrated (Plates 35 and 36) in situ. Beaching the transverse fissure of the liver, it divides into a right and a left branch, which enter the organ. 17. Vena Portae.—Formed as before described (page 88) and illustrated (Plates 35 and 36) in situ, this vessel branches, right and left, into the transverse fissure of the liver ; at the fissure it is lodged inferior to the lobus Spigelii; in the foetus the right branch is continuous with the umbilical vein, and the ductus venosus ; in adult life the umbilical vein is, at times, pervious for a variable distance from the vena portse. 18. Biliary Duct§.—The right and the left leave the liver at the transverse fissure, in a plane inferior to the hepatic arteries ; the two unite into a single canal, the hepatic duct,