LOWER EXTREMITY. 116 anterior ligament of the joint. Make a longitudinal incision through the sub- stance of the vastus externus muscle, down to the shaft of femur, as shown in Plate 64. Semiflex the knee-joint and abduct the thigh. Eeflect the aponeu- rosis from the inner side of the knee-joint proximally, and to the outer side, cutting the anterior ligament of the joint at the circumference of the articular surface of the patella. Continue the proximal reflection of the vastus interims, the crureus, and the vastus externus (inner portion of) muscles, being careful to leave, in situ, the proximal portion of the redundant anterior ligament of the joint, with the attachment to it of the subcrureus muscle ; trace the latter muscle to its proximal attachment. Cut the reflected muscles, and portion of muscle (vastus externus), from the shaft of the femur ; cut the branches of the anterior crural nerve and those of the external circumflex artery, at their trunks, respectively. Carefully cut away the vastus internus muscle from its linea aspera attachment (Fig. 1, Plate 91). 34. Subcrureus muscle, Plates 59, 64, and 65 —This is a small muscle attached, at its proximal end, to the anterior sur- face of the distal third of the shaft of the femur; at its distal end, to the anterior ligament of the knee-joint. 35. Proximal Portion of tne Anterior ligament of the Knee-Joint, Plates 64 and 65.—This ligament lines the tendon and aponeurosis of the quadriceps extensor femoris muscle ; it is adapted to the two conditions of the joint, flexion and extension: in the position of flexion it is drawn taut over the anterior surface of the condyles of the femur ; in extension it appears redundant, at the proximal side of the base of the patella, where it is drawn up by the subcrureus muscle. Dissection.—Section the femoral artery and vein distal to their profunda femoris branches (Plate 63); cut them also at the proximal side of the femoral opening in the adductor magnus muscle (Plate 64). Section the adductor lon- gus muscle (Plate 63), and reflect its proximal portion to its pubic attachment, where it may be cut or, better, turned off upon the symphysis pubis ; in raising it do not disturb the branches of the anterior portion of the obturator nerve beneath it; recognize the branch of this portion of the obturator nerve, that supplies the adductor longus muscle—entering its posterior surface. Eeflect the distal portion of the adductor longus to its femoral attachment (Fig. 1, Plate 93) and cut it close to the bone. Trace the profunda femoris artery and its internal circumflex branch; its perforating and its muscle branches ; cut away their vense comites. 36. Profunda Femori§ Artery, Plates 64 and ^ 65.—This artery was before recognized as a branch of the femoral in Scarpa's triangle, as passing posterior to the adductor longus muscle (page 114), and as giving off the external circumflex