INTRODUCTION. 11 Dissection.—The relation of a duct, in situ, is to be first appreciated; then, its point of emergence from the .viscus and its destination. Mucous Membrane—Mucous membrane lines all canals of the body with a surface outlet ; at these points the membrane will be found continuous with the skin. Serous Membrane.—A serous membrane invests all op- posed surfaces, which move upon each other, the exception being the cartilage surfaces of joints ; it covers all movable organs, and lines the interior of the cavities which contain them ; it lines the ligaments of the movable joints, and forms the sheaths of tendons. It secretes a lubricating fluid to fa- cilitate friction and prevent irritating effects therefrom. Dissection.—Mucous and serous membranes should be dissected from subjacent tissue; a submucous and a subserous plane of areolar tissue may sometimes be demonstrated. Bones.—The bones, which form the framework of a given dissection, should be considered, with reference: first, to the relations of their surfaces to the anatomical elements of the re- gion ; second, to the areas of attachment of muscles. The regional dissections have been planned so as to include all the attachments of a given muscle, thereby facilitating the appre- ciation of its function. Dissection.—After a dissection has been completed, the muscles should be cut from the bones, one by one, noting the areas of their attachments. In so doing, not only the situation of a given muscle attachment is to be seen, but also its relations to contiguous areas of other muscle attachments. Joints.—The joints of the body are the points where bone surfaces are in contiguity ; they are complex in their construc- tion, including: bones, ligaments, cartilage, synovial (serous) membrane, an&fibro-cartilage. Joints are movable, partially movable, and immovable : a movable Joint (el bow-join t\,is con- structed of bones covered with articular cartilage, and joined by ligaments lined by synovial membrane; if the joint is ex- posed to concussions (knee-joint), protection is afforded, from bone injury by the presence of movable plates of fibro-carti- lage (interarticular), between the cartilage-covered articular