HEAD AND NECK. 402 2. Posterior flares: Plates 199, 202, and 203 ; Fig. 1, Plate 206.—The pharyngeal openings of the nasal cavities, the pos- terior nares, present at either side of the median line, anteri- orly to the superior portion of the pharynx. Their osseous boundaries are (Plate 199): superiorly, the body of the sphe- noid bone, the sphenoidal processes of the palate bones, and the ala3 of the vomer ; laterally, the internal plates of the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone ; inferiorly, the posterior bor- ders of the horizontal plates of the right and left palate bones —from this border the soft palate is projected, posteriorly ; at the median line they are divided by the vomer. These osseous boundaries are covered by periosteum and mucous membrane (Fig. 1, Plate 206). Ji. Posterior View of the Interior of the Nasal Cavities, Fig. 1, Plate 206.—Looking into the nasal cavities, through the posterior nares, portions of the following parts, covered by mu- cous membrane, may be seen : the right and left, postero-ante- rior, inferior walls of the nasal cavities, slightly concave trans- versely ; the right and left surfaces of the median-line septum between the cavities ; the right and left external wTalls, present- ing the posterior ends of the shelf-like projections of the right and left turbinate bones, inferiorly, and the right and left tur- binate processes of the ethmoid bone, superiorly. Between these osseous shelves are the posterior portions of the right and left inferior, middle, and superior meatuses. Dissection.—Saw to the left of the median line, through the anterior of the base of the cranium into the left nasal cavity ; also through the inferior wall of the same cavity, at the side of the septum. So place the halves of the upper jaw region of the face as to present the interiors of the internal and external walls of the left nasal cavity, as in Plate 209. Eecognize the pro- jections from, and the galleries along, the external wall of the nasal cavity. 4. Mucous-membrane Covered Turbinate Bone, Plate 209. —This bone forms a shelf-like internal projection from the ex- ternal wall of a nasal cavity. It is articulated to a continuous, antero-posterior ridge, on the interior surfaces of the follow- ing bones, of a side : a superior maxillary (its body); a lachry- mal ; the ethmoid (its lateral mass) ; a palate (its vertical plate); and the sphenoid (the internal plate of its pterygoid process). From this broad base it turbinates or whirls (like the inferior half of a letter S) to its internal free border.