170 LOWER EXTREMITY. of this muscle : to the long head a branch from the inner side of the nerve ; to the short head a branch from its outer side, which bifurcates before entering the muscle. 26. Nerve to the Adductor Magnus, the Semimemforan- ©sus, and the Semitendinosus Muscles.—Distal to the biceps branches, a nerve is given off from the inner side of the great sciatic, which bifurcates: the short branch supplying the ad- ductor magnus muscle; the long one taking a longitudinal course, and dividing, to supply the semimembranosus and the semitendinosus muscles. 27. Nerve to the Semitendinosus Muscle.—This, the most distal' and shortest branch from the great sciatic nerve, passes directly from the inner side of the nerve to the muscle. DissECTiON.-Cut the proximal ends of the long head of the biceps and the semitendinosus muscle (Plate 96) ; reflect the muscles, in a distal direction, and cut the nerves and vessels supplying them. Section the long head, of the biceps near its junction with the short head ; and the semitendinosus near its distal attachment (Plate 96). Clear the surfaces of the short head of the biceps muscle and the semimembranosus muscle. 28 Short Head of the Biceps Muscle, Plates 94, 96, 97, and 98 ; Fig. 1, Plate 91; Fig. 2, Plate 67.-This head of the biceps muscle is located in a plane anterior to the long head (Plate 94); and in part to the outer side of the latter. It has a longitudinal course, being attached to the linea aspera, along the inner side of the distal two-thirds of its outer lip (Fig. 1, Plate 91). In the distal quarter of the thigh, the two heads of the biceps unite; they then pass as a single muscle over the outer side of the knee, to be attached to the proximal end of the fibula. 29. Semimembranosus Muscle, Plates 94, 96, and 97; Fig. 1 Plate 91.—This muscle, the largest in the posterior region of the thigh,, lies to the inner side of the thigh, anterior to the long head of the biceps and the semitendinosus muscles. Its proximal attachment is to the inferior and external surfaces ot the tuberosity of the ischium; the muscle takes a longitudinal course to the inner side of the posterior surface of the knee, where it may be traced to a short thick tendon, which is in part attached to the proximal end of the tibia, at the posterior plane