Ig4 LOWER EXTREMITY. 22. Short Calcaneo-Cuhoid Ligament, Plate 105 ; Fig. 1, Plate 106.—This ligament is located at the dorsal surface of the long ligament. It is a short band of fibres between the plantar surfaces of the two bones. At its outer side it meets the fibres of the dorsal calcaneocuboid ligament (page 181 ; Plate 101), that are continued over the outer border of the tarsus. 23. Plantar Calcaneo-Scaphoid Ligament.—This is a strong band of fibrous tissue, which bridges from the calcaneum to the scaphoid bone; on its dorsal surface is lodged the head of the astragalus. At its inner border it is met by the fibres of the dorsal astragalo-scaphoid ligament (page 182 ; Fig. 1, Plate 102), that are continued over the inner border of the tarsal region. Dissection.—Dissect away the metatarsal expansions of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle (Fig. 1, Plate 106). Expose the plantar cubo-metatarsal, euneo-metatarsal, intercuneiform, cuneo cuboid, and scapho-cuneiform liga- ments. 24. Plantar Cuoo-Metatarsal Ligaments, Fig. 1, Plate 106.— These ligaments unite the fifth and fourth metatarsal bones to the cuboid bone. 25. Plantar Cuneo-Metatarsal Ligaments. — These liga- ments pass from the plantar surfaces of the proximal ends of the first, second, and third metatarsal bones to those of the in- ternal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. 26. Plantar Intercuneiform Ligaments.—These ligaments, two in number, bridge between the plantar surfaces of the three contiguous cuneiform bones, as do the dorsal ligaments (Plate 103) ; they are not as well marked as the dorsal. 27. Plantar Cuneo -Cuboid Ligament. — This ligament crosses from the plantar surface of the cuboid to the same of the external cuneiform bone. 28. Plantar Scapno-Cuneiform Ligaments. — These liga- ments, three in number, bind the three cuneiform bones to the scaphoid bone. Dissection.—Disarticulate the metatarsal bones from the three cuneiform and the cuboid bones; cut apart the bases of the metatarsal bones ; disarticu- late the cuboid and scaphoid bones from the calcaneum and astragalus; sep-