ABDOMINAL PAEIETES. 51 folates the transversalis abdominis, near the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to wind, externally and superi- orly, over the crest of the ilium, exteriorly to the muscle. 26. Tran§versalis Abdominis Muscle, Plates 27 and 42.— This forms the third antero-lateral muscle plane of the ab- dominal parietes. Its attachments are: to the interior sur- faces of the cartilages of the six inferior ribs—interdigitating with digitations of the diaphragm ; to the lumbar aponeurosis, by which it is attached to the transverse processes of the lum- bar vertebrae ; to the anterior three-fourths of the interior por- tion of the crest of the ilium ; to the external third of Pou- part's ligament; to the linea alba, by the aponeurosis of the muscle, which commences at the linea semilunaris ; and to the os pubis by the conjoined tendon. 27. Conjoined Tendon.—This is formed by the converging of the inferior Poupart ligament fibres of the transversalis ab- dominis muscle and the middle Poupart ligament fibres of the obliquus internus muscle, to a common point of attachment on the finea ilio-pectinea, external]y and interiorly to the spine, and to the superior surface of the body, of the os pubis. The fibres of the obliquus internus are attached to the exterior of the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The tendon is located externally to the inferior end of the linea semilunaris, in a plane interiorly to the spermatic cord (male) or round liga- lent of the uterus (female), as it passes through the pubic (external) abdominal ring ; at its linea-ilio-pectinea attachment it lies interiorly to Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligaments. Dissection.—Keplace the flaps of the obliquus interims and externus mus- cles ; make an incision parallel with, and midway between, the linea alba and the linea semilunaris, through the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus and the exterior layer of the splitting of the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus. Reflect lateral flaps to each linea, respectively, exposing the rectus abdominis and the pyramidalis abdominis muscles. 28. Pyramidali§ Abdominis Mu§ele, Plates 28 and 42.— This small, triangular, muscle lies exteriorly to the inferior por- tion of the rectus abdominis, at the side of the median line. At its base it is attached to the superior border of the body of the os pubis; its fibres pass, superiorly, to its apex, at the