168 LOWER EXTREMITY. The trunk of the artery continues, inferiorly, into the prox- imal part of the posterior region of the thigh ; its course is, externally to the tuberosity of the ischium, parallel with, and superficial to, the great sciatic nerve ; to the latter nerve it gives a branch, the comes nervi ischiadici (Plates 96 and 97), which enters the nerve. Muscle branches are afforded to con- tiguous muscles ; and terminal branches anastomose with the internal circumflex and the first perforating branch of the pro- funda femoris artery. 20. Superficial Branch of the Gluteal Artery, Plates 95 and 99.—Stumps of arteries present, which were cut as they entered the anterior surface of the superior part of the gluteus maxi- mus muscle ; they may now be traced to this branch of the gluteal artery (venre comites), at the superior border of the in- ternal portion of the pyriformis muscle, between the latter and the gluteus medius muscle. 21. Gluteus Medius Muscle, Plates 91 and 95 to 100, inclu- sive.—This muscle occupies the interval between the trochanter major of the femur and the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium. The internal third of its posterior surface is over- lapped by the gluteus maximus muscle (Plate 93); its external border is covered by the tensor vaginae femoris muscle (Plate 61). Upon the removal of the latter muscle, its external border presents at the outer side of the proximal portion of the ante- rior surface of the thigh (Plates 62 to 65, inclusive ; and Fig. 2, Plate 66). It is attached, superiorly, to the exterior of the ilium of the os innominatum, between its superior and middle curved lines, being continued to the anterior border of the bone ; inferiorly, it narrows to be attached to the superior and external surfaces of the trochanter major of the femur. Dissection.—Section the inferior gluteal nerve, the small sciatic nerve, and the sciatic artery at their superior ends (Plate 97), and dissect away their in- ferior portions; cut the articular branch of the artery at its origin and leave it in situ. Separate the long head of the biceps muscle from the scmitendinosus muscle, being careful not to cut away the nerves and arteries that supply them. 22. Long Head of the Biceps Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 91 ; Plates 93 to 98, inclusive.—The biceps is the outer, superficial and longitudinal muscle of the posterior surface of the thigh; its proximal portion having two heads: the long head is at-