9Q TRUNK. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the liver, and determine its ligaments, fissures, lobes, vessels and ducts. 15. Liver, Plates 51 and 52.—The liver was described (page 58) and illustrated (Plates 30, 31, 35, and 36) in situ. It is the largest organ of the abdominal cavity, weighing from forty to sixty ounces. It is suspended by ligaments, formed by reflections of the greater and the lesser peritoneum, and by the round ligament or obliterated umbilical vein. From the interior of the right superior and anterior parietes of the abdomen, the broad or suspensory ligament passes to the antero-superior surface of the organ (page 56). The round ligament was before described (page 56). The coronary liga- ment at the postero-superior border of the organ, has a superior and an inferior portion : the superior is formed by the spread- ing of the broad ligament, right and left, and its reflection to the diaphragm ; the inferior is a reflection of the lesser perito- neum from the liver to the diaphragm. The two lateral liga- ments are the right and left extensions of the portions of the coronary ligament, from the superior lateral angles of the liver to the diaphragm. The postero-inferior surface of the liver is mapped out by furrows, which are called fissures. The umbilical fissure and the fissure for the ductus venosus—named from the parts they lodge—are the two portions of a longitudinal furrow, which commences at the inferior or free border of the organ-at the notch there presenting—and continues across it to its superior border. The transverse fissure—about three inches long—runs at a right angle from the right of the junction of the two last- described fissures. The fissure for the gall-bladder extends from near the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the f inferior border of the viscus. The fissure for the vena cava runs obliquely from near the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the superior border of the gland. The five lobes of the liver are mapped out by the fissures upon its postero-inferior surface, as follows: the right lobe to the right of the fissure for the vena cava, the fissure for the gall- bladder and the right end of the transverse fissure ; the lobus quadratus by the transverse fissure superiorly, the fissure for the gall-bladder to the right and the umbilical fissure to the lett; the lobus Spigelii by the transverse fissure inferiorly, the ns-