TRUNK. 54 spermatic cord or of the round ligament of the uterus ; it is situ- ated superior to the middle of Poupart's ligament. A process of the transversalis fascia is projected, like the tube of a fun- nel, interiorly, upon the cord or the ligament, as the internal spermatic {infundibuliform) fascia. Dissection.—Make an incision through the transversalis fascia from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the linea semilunaris. Eeflect a partial inguinal flap, so as to expose the interior of the iliac (internal) ab- dominal ring. The guide to the reflection of this flap of fascia is the deep epigastric artery, which lies in the plane of the subserous areolar tissue be- tween the fascia and the peritoneum. Note the transit of the elements of the spermatic cord into the funnel tube process (internal spermatic fascia) upon the cord. 35. Subserous Areolar Tissue.—This is a plane of loose fib- rous tissue, between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum. Inferior to the umbilicus, it allows the peritoneum to be readily separated from the transversalis and iliac fasciae; superior to the umbilicus, it is very little developed, thereby rendering the separation of the peritoneum much more difficult. 36. Beep Epigastric Artery.—This artery (vena comes) is a branch of the external iliac, which reaches the anterior parietes of the abdomen through the subserous tissue exterior to the peritoneum. It runs internal to the iliac (internal) abdominal ring, superiorly and internally, to where it enters the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle—about on the bis-iliac line. Within the sheath it passes superiorly, through the contained muscle, and anastomoses with the superior epigastric artery ; the latter artery is one of the terminal branches of the internal mammary artery, which enters the superior part of the rectus muscle, from the thorax. Dissection.—Slit up the internal spermatic (infundibuliform) fascia (Plate 28), so as to expose the spermatic cord. Distinguish the elements of the spermatic cord, and trace the same beneath the peritoneum into the iliac fossa. 37. Elements of the Spermatic Cord.—These are : the vas deferens, a hard, well-defined duct; the spermatic veins, arte- ries and nerves. The vas deferens winds abruptly, internally, behind the deep epigastric artery, to pass into the pelvic cavity beneath the peritoneum ; the vessels and nerves con- tinue, superiorly, between the peritoneum and the iliac fascia.