UPPER EXTREMITY. 292 of thread through the outer border of the long head of the triceps muscle, and hold off the same to the inner side. Taking the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery as guides, cut through the triceps muscle, so as to expose the course of the nerve and artery through the spiral groove of the humerus. Cut away the triceps muscle to enable the tracing of the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve into its heads. 15. Musculo-spiral Nerve, Plate I61.--Tlie proximal por- tion of this nerve was before described (page 206) and illus- trated (Plates 119 and 120), as it presents at the antero-inter- nal face of the proximal portion of the arm. It appears at the posterior of the arm, and, after giving off branches to the heads of the triceps and to the anconeus muscles, it enters the spiral groove of the humerus ; in this groove it has a distal,^ and anterior, course to the outer side of the distal portion of the arm, where it was before described (page 215) and illus- trated (Plate 126). 16. \er\es to the Tricep§ and Anconeus Muscles.—These nerves, branches of the musculo-spiral nerve before its entrance into the spiral groove of the humerus, have a distal course to, and enter the substance of, the three heads of the triceps mus- cle. One of the branches is continued, through the outer head of the triceps, to the anconeus muscle. 17. Brachial Artery.—The posterior surface of the prox- imal portion of this artery appears, anteriorly to the musculo- spiral nerve, where it gives off the superior profunda artery. 18. Superior Profunda Artery.—This artery (venffi com- ites), the first and largest branch of the brachial artery, was before described (page 204) and illustrated (Plates 118 and 119), as it presents at the antero-internal face of the arm. Pos- teriorly, it accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve, through the spiral groove of the humerus. It supplies the triceps muscle, and terminates at the outer side of the distal portion of the anterior of the arm (page 206 ; Plate 216). Dissection.—Find and trace the circumflex nerve and its branch to the teres minor muscle ; also the posterior circumflex artery. 19. Circumflex Nerve.—Plates 161 and 162.—The proximal portion of this nerve was described (page 205) and illustrated (Plate 120), where it presents, anteriorly, at the posterior of the