224 LOWER EXTREMITY. cuneiform, afford attachments to muscles. Each metatarsal and each digital bone has a base (proximal end), a shaft, and a head (distal end). DissECTiON.-Make the skin incisions 1, 2, 3, and 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, ol Figure 5; reflect flaps well off of the inner and outer borders of the tarsal and meta- tarsal regions of the foot, and the dorsal halves of the lateral digital surfaces (Plate 71). Facilitate the turning off of the flaps from the foot by additional skin incisions from the tips of the malleoli, respectively, to the heel. 1 subcutaneous Tissue of the Dorsum of the Foot and Bistts, Plates 69, 70, and 71,-In this tissue subcutaneous veins will be found in a superficial plane, while subcutaneous nerves lie in a deeper one. DissBCiiON.-Dissect out the saphenous arch of veins, their tributary-and resultant trunks ; expose the subcutaneous distribution of the ous, the musculocutaneous, the anterior tibial, the mtema^ and the internal calcaneal nerves, upon the dorsum and borders of the footth| lateral digital surfaces. Clear the fascia of the dorsal surfaces of the foot and digits of subcutaneous tissue, preserving the above veins and nerves, « sUu. 2 saphenous Arch.-This venous arch crosses the dorsum of the foot in the distal third of the metatarsal region. At the outer side it is continued by the external saphenous vein (Plate 69) which ascends to the posterior surface of the leg, by wind- in* interiorly to the external malleolus; at the inner side of the foot, the arch is continued by the internal saphenous vein which has a proximal course to the inner surface of the distal end of the tibia (Plate 70). The convexity of the arch receives the dorsal collateral digital veins. A variable number o branches leave the concavity of the arch, having a proximal course to the leg. 3. External Saphenous Nerve, Plate 69.-This cutaneous nerve enters the outer border of the foot, interiorly to the dis- tal end of the fibula. It distributes a dorsal collatera digital branch to the outer lateral digital surface of the fifth digit, and similar branches to the fifth and fourth digits. 4 MuscuSo-Cutaneous Nerve, Plates 69, 70, and 71.-The cutaneous branch (sometimes two) of this nerve enters upon the dorsum of the foot, at the middle of the ankle. It bieaks up into branches: the dorsal collateral digital nerves of the