SUPEEFICIAL REGION OF THE FACE. 329 6. Depressor ILatoii luferioris Muscle.—This muscle is at- tached : interiorly, to the anterior surface of the body of the inferior maxillary bone—superiorly to the attachment of the last-described muscle, and inferiorly to the mental foramen within the area of the bicuspid teeth (Plate 181) ; superiorly, it fuses with the orbicularis oris muscle (Fig. 2, Plate 182). The terminal portion of the submental artery is projected, from the neck, to its anterior surface (Fig. 2, Plate 182; and Plate 183) or into its substance. 7. Zygomaticus Major Muscle, Plate 181 ; Fig. 2, Plate 182.—This muscle is attached : superiorly and externally, to the external surface of the malar bone (Plate 181); inferiorly and internally, it fuses with the superior portion of the orbi- cularis oris muscle, nearly opposite the angle of the lips (Fig. 2, Plate 182). 8. Zygomaticus Minor Muscle.—This muscle passes from the external surface of the malar bone, at a point internally to the attachment of the last-described muscle (Plate 181) ; it runs parallel with, and internally to, the latter muscle, and blends with the superior portion of the orbicularis oris muscle (Fig. 2, Plate 182). 9. Levator Labia Superioris Alaeque Nasi Muscle.—This muscle is attached : superiorly, to the external surface of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone (Plate 181); in- feriorly, it divides into an external part, which fuses with the superior portion of the orbicularis oris muscle, and an internal part, which is attached to the ala of the nose (Fig. 2, Plate 182). 10. Orbicularis Palpebrarum Muscle, Plate 181 ; Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; and Plate 183.—This muscle has its bone attach- ment, at the internal border of the rim of the orbital fossa, to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone and the in- ternal angular process of the frontal bone (Plate 181). Its fibres pass in concentric loops around the palpebral slit: the central ones, very thin, anteriorly to the tarsi of the eyelids ; the circumferential ones, thicker, encroaching, upon the cheek, inferiorly, the malar region, externally, and the superciliary ridge, superiorly.