125 ANTERIOR OF LEG AND DORSUM OF FOOT. fourth and third, the third and second digits, and that of the inner lateral digital surface of the pollex digit (Plate 70). It anastomoses with the external saphenous and the anterior tibial nerves. 5. Anterior Tihial Nerve, Plates 69 and 71.—The terminal portion of this nerve perforates the fascia at the middle of the first intermetatarsal space; it divides into the dorsal collateral digital nerves of the second and first digits. 6. Internal Saphenous Nerve, Plate 70.—This cutaneous nerve accompanies the vein of the same name, distributing to the skin of the inner border of the tarsal region. 7. Internal Calcaneal Nerve.—This nerve, branch of the posterior tibial, perforates the fascia to distribute to the skin of the inner side of the heel. Dissection.—Untie the great toes. Make the skin incisions 5 and 6, of Figure 5 (page 123), and reflect flaps well off the antero-inner and outer lateral areas of the leg. Expose the subcutaneous veins and nerves. 8. Internal Saphenous Vein.—This subcutaneous vein may be followed, in its proximal course along the inner surface of the leg to the inner side of the knee, where it was before de- scribed (page 114; Plate 63). It receives tributary branches from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the leg. 9. Internal Saphenous Nerve.—This nerve accompanies the last-described vein ; it has a distal course from where it enters the proximal limit of this dissection. It distributes patellar and other branches to the anterior and posterior (Plate 84) sur- faces of the leg. 10. Musculocutaneous Nerve, Plate 69.—The cutaneous branch (sometimes two) of this nerve, pierces the fascia of the leg, at a variable point, in the distal half of its outer antero- lateral area, continuing therefrom to the foot (page 124). 11. Cutaneous Branches of the External Popliteal Nerve. —Branches of this nerve distribute in the proximal half of the outer antero-lateral area of the leg. 12. Fascia of the Leg and Foot, Plates 69 and 70 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 3.—The fascia of the dissection area is attached to