134 LOWER EXTREMITY. large areola; for the lodgement of fat; over the inner half it is thinner, especially at the hollow of the sole of the foot. Dissection -Bemove the subcutaneous tissue from the plantar fascia, being careful to preserve the vessels and nerves superficial to it Determine the portions of the plantar fascia and the distal slips of i s middle portion. Make the skin incisions 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, of Figure 6, and reflect flaps from the re- spective plants and lateral digital surfaces of the digits; expose the plantar collateral digital nerves and vessels, and the sheaths of the flexor tendons. 2. Plantar Fascia, Plate 76.-This fascia is a thick plane of fibrous tissue, which stretches from the heel to the toes, tt consists of three portions : the middle, the inner, and the outer. The middle portion, the thickest of the three, has a proxi- mal attachment to the calcaneum ; in the metatarsal region tt spreads laterally and divides into five slips, which pass to the sheaths of the flexor tendons-on the digits—and to the sides of the heads of the metatarsal bones ; at the distal ends ot the slips, transverse fibres bridge across the foot from one to the other-^e superficial transverse ligament. The inner portion has a proximal attachment to the calcaneum and along the inner border of the middle portion of the fascia ; it spreads to the pollex border of the foot, where it is continued to the dorsal surface of the same. The outer portion is attached to the calca- neum and the outer border of the middle portion of the fascia ; it spreads to the minim border of the foot, where it is continued to the dorsal.surface of the same. At the junctions ot the mid- dle with the respective inner and outer portions septa are pro- jected between the muscles, which determine three longitudinal compartments, for muscles, etc. • S. Cataneons Arteries and Nerves.-Small plantar cutane- ous arteries and nerves perforate to the subcutaneous plane of the region, along the borders of the middle portion of the plantar fascia. 4. First Digital Nerve, Plates 76 and 77.-This nerve, brancj of the internal plantar, perforates the fascta near the pollej border of the foot, opposite the first metatarsal bone ; it,con- tinues as the inner plantar collateral digital nerve ol the pollex digit.