POSTERIOE REGION OF LEG AND POPLITEAL SPACE. 155 head of the gastrocnemius muscle. Its proximal boundaries are : the semimembranosus muscle to the inner side ; the biceps muscle to the outer side. The floor of the space is formed by the posterior surface of the distal end of the shaft of the femur, and the exterior surface of the posterior ligament of the knee- joint. 23. External Popliteal tferve, Plates 85 to 88, inclusive, and Plate 90.—This nerve emerges from the popliteal space, in the groove between the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle and the distal end of the biceps muscle, giving off a cutaneous branch (page 153 ; Plates 85 and 86). It winds round the proxi- mal end of the shaft of the fibula, through the substance of the peroneus longus muscle, where it divides into the anterior tibial and the musculocutaneous nerves (page 131 ; Plates 72 and 74) ; followed to its proximal end, it is seen to arise from the bifurcation of the great sciatic nerve. 24. Internal Popliteal Nerve, Plates 85 and 86.—This, the largest of the two popliteal nerves, arises from the bifurcation of the great sciatic nerve ; it has a longitudinal course through the posterior plane of the popliteal space. It gives off, from its posterior surface, the inner root of the external saphenous nerve (page 153). 25. Nerve to the Plantaris Muscle.—This nerve is given off from the outer side of the internal popliteal nerve; it passes directly to the inner face of the muscle. 26. Nerves to the Gastrocnemius Muscle, Plate 87. A branch from the posterior surface of the internal popliteal nerve is projected between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle: from its sides the heads of the muscle are supplied ; the branch itself is continued to the anterior surface of the gastrocnemius muscle, to supply the soleus muscle. Dissection.-Hook the internal popliteal nerve aside, and dissect out the popliteal vein and its tributary branches. 27. Popliteal Vein, Plate 86.—This vein takes a longitu- dinal course, through the popliteal space, in a plane anterior to the internal popliteal nerve ; it enters at the middle of the distal limit of the space, and passes toward the inner side of