FEMALE PERINEUM. 35 with the corpora cavernosa of the clitoris. Take out the three anterior su- tures of the labia ; dissect off the mucous membrane from the vestibule ; cut away the labia minora from the labia majora and from the clitoris ; cut away the anterior halves of the labia majora. 20. Buln of tlie Vagina, Fig. 1, Plate 15.—This presents in two lateral portions, one on either side of the vaginal orifice ; they are nearly as broad as the halves, respectively, of the sphincter vaginae muscle ; they extend to about the middle of the antero-posterior diameter of the vaginal orifice ; they lie be- tween the sphincter vaginas muscle and the triangular ligament. The portions are broad posteriorly, narrowing as they advance anteriorly, to where they unite in the submucous plane of the vestibule of the pudendum, forming what is known as the pars intermedia. This vestibular portion of the bulb surrounds the meatus of the urethra, reaching to the vaginal margin of the vestibule. In the position in which the clitoris is fixed, in the illustration, the vestibular portion would seem to continue along the inferior surface of the corpora cavernosa of the cli- toris, and to cap the same at their extremities, thereby forming a glans clitoridis. (The portion of the bulb which passes from the pars intermedia to the glans clitoridis, is not, strictly speak- ing, continuous in structure with the bulb, but it presents a number of vessels, which continue from the pars intermedia to the glans.) The bulb of the vagina is the analogue of the male corpus spongiosum. In the female it is perforated by the urethra in its vestibular portion, and bears somewhat similar relations to the clitoris as does the corpus spongiosum to the penis. Dissection.—Hook half of the bulb of the vagina and the corresponding crus of the clitoris (the latter having been detached from the pubic arch) across the median line, so as to expose one-half of the triangular ligament; note the vessels and nerves that perforate the ligament. 21. Triangular Ligament, Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 15.—This ligament is attached as in the male; see Male Perineum, page 20. It has a much larger area in the female, owing to the greater space between the rami of the pubic arch. Anteriorly, it is perforated by the urethra, as in the male ; posteriorly' by the vagina, to which it is attached, interior to the plane of the bulb of the vagina. Posterior to the vaginal orifice, its base line, at the bis-ischiatic fascial junction, is in continuity