PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. 149 proximal attachments are to the opposite dorsal-plane surfaces of the live metatarsal bones (Plate 68). Their distal ends form tendons, which cross the inner sides of the metatarso-phalan- geal joints : the first over the inner side of that of the second digit; the second, third, and fourth over the outer sides of those of the second, third, and fourth digits. Dissection.—Cut away the sesamoid bones and clean their surfaces. Ee- place the flexor longus pollicis and flexor longus digitorum tendons; suture their cut ends together. Extend the foot so as to see the dorsal and lateral digi- tal surfaces of the toes. Recognize the distal attachments of the lumbricales muscles. Determine the double distal attachments of the dorsal and plantar interosseous muscles ; also the construction of the compound digital extensor aponeuroses. The distal ends of the tendons of the extensor longus and brevis digitorum muscles were left, in situ, on the dorsal surface of the digits, second to fifth, inclusive (pages 129 and 130) ; they may now be dissected. 69. Sesamoid Bones, Pig. 1, Plate 82.—These are two ob- long bones included in the compound flexor brevis pollicis tendon (page 147), with their dorsal surfaces articulating with the plantar surface of the head of the first metatarsal bone. 70. L,uml>ricales Muscles, Fig. 3, Plate 82.—The lumbri- cales muscles have their distal attachments to the inner sides of the bases of the phalanges of the digits, second to fifth, in- clusive. 71. Distal Attachments of tiie Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, Fig. 2, Plate 82.—Tlie distal tendon of each dorsal interos- seous muscle may be determined to have two attachments : one to the lateral digital surface of the base of the phalanx of the digit to which it belongs (the first muscle to the inner side of the phalanx of the second digit ; the second, third, and fourth muscles to the outer sides of the phalanges of the re- spective second, third, and fourth digits); another by a fibrous expansion, which contributes to the compound digital extensor aponeurosis of the digit. 72. Distal Attachments of the .Plantar Interosseous Muscles, Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 82.—The distal attachment of each of these muscles is also double : one to the inner surface of the base of the phalanx of the digit—third, fourth, and fifth; the other, by a fibrous expansion, to the inner borders of the terminal