412 HEAD AND NECK. EXTEEIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. Dissection.—Cut the arteries (with the scissors) between the nerve origins at the base of the brain (Plates 211 and 214) ; pick away (with the forceps) the pieces of arteries from between the nerves ; then (with the forceps) peel off the pia mater, and included vessels, from the exterior of the brain (this is best done by short twitches of portions of the membrane). Holding the brain so as to be able to see its vertex (Plate 212) and a lateral (Plate 213) area of one of its hemispheres, alternately, determine the fissures, the furrows, the lobes, the sulci, the lobules, and the convolutions of the exterior of the cerebrum. Open the fissure of Sylvius by everting, inferiorly, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum. 1. Fissures and Furrows of the Vertex and Lateral Area of a HemispEiere of the Cerebrum, Plates 212 and 213.—These areas of the exterior of the cerebrum present three fissures and two furrows—three antero-posterior and two transverse. The longitudinal fissure is a complete, antero-posterior, median- line fissure, located between the hemispheres (Plate 212) of the cerebrum ; it lodges the falx cerebri of the dura mater, and has the superior surface of the corpus callosum for its floor. The fissure of Sylvius is an incomplete, antero-posterior, fissure, which is located at a lateral area of the exterior of the cere- brum ; it has a long posterior and a short anterior division. The furrow of Rolando is a well-marked, transverse furrow, which has an oblique course, inferiorly and anteriorly, from a point externally to the junction of the posterior and middle third of the longitudinal fissure (Plate 212) to a point superiorly to the middle of the fissure of Sylvius (Plate 213). The occipito- parietal fissure is a transverse fissure, which has a slightly oblique course, externally and posteriorly, from the posterior third of the longitudinal fissure to the inferior border of the posterior part of the cerebrum. The intraparietal furrow (Plate 213) is a short, antero-posterior, furrow, which runs, anteriorly, from about the middle of the occipitoparietal fis- sure to the ascending parietal convolution of the parietal lobe. 2. Lobes of the Cerebrum, Plates 211 to 215, inclusive.— A hemisphere of the cerebrum presents five lobes. The frontal lobe is bounded : at the median line, by the longitudinal fis- sure (Plates 211 to 215, inclusive); posteriorly, by the fur- row of Rolando (Plates 212, 213, and 215) and the central lobe (Plates 213 and 214) ; inferiorly, by the fissure of Syl-