ABDOMINAL PAKIETES, 49 Dissection.—Incise the obliquus externus muscle (Plate 24) as follows : at its lateral area, from the eleventh rib to the ilium, and along the crest of the ilium; at its rib attachments, dissect out its digitations from the interdigita- tions of the serratus magnus muscle. Beflect a flap of the superior antero- lateral area of the muscle, internally, to a line beyond the linea semilunaris ; fold the portion of the muscle into a longitudinal roll at the side of the median line (Plate 25). 19. Intermuscular Septum.—A thin layer of fibrous tissue separates the obliquus externus from the obliquus internus muscle. 20. Ilio-hypogastric Nerve.—This nerve emerges through the obliquus internus muscle, internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; it continues exterior to the mus- cle, internally, to where it perforates the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus muscle, as before shown. 21. Ilio-inguinal Nerve.—This emerges through the ob- liquus internus muscle ; it runs upon the muscle, parallel with and nearer to Poupart's ligament than the last named nerve. It emerges at the pubic (external) abdominal ring, with the spermatic cord (male) or round ligament of the uterus (female). Dissection.—Clear the intermuscular fibrous tissue from the surface of the obliquus internus muscle. 22. Obliquus Internus Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 21, and Plate 25.—This forms the second anterolateral muscle plane of the abdominal parietes. It is attached : posteriorly, to the lumbar aponeurosis ; inferiorly and externally, to the anterior two- thirds of the mid-space of the crest of the ilium and to the ex- ternal half of Poupart's ligament; superiorly, to the cartilage of the twelfth rib, the eleventh rib, and the cartilages of the eleventh, tenth, and ninth ribs ; internally, to the linea alba by the aponeurosis of the muscle—this splits at the linea semi- lunaris, to sheath the rectus, and then unites at the linea alba. Its middle Poupart ligament fibres are attached to the exterior of the tendon of the transversalis, externally to the inferior of the linea semilunaris. Its inferior Poupart ligament fibres (male) loop, inferiorly, to invest the spermatic cord upon its an- tero-external surfaces, returning, superiorly, to be attached to the anterior surface of the body of the os pubis. These looped