174 LOWER EXTREMITY. i 41. Pudic Artery, Plates 95 to 100, inclusive.—In the dis- section of the interior of the pelvis this artery is described (page 75) and illustrated (Plates 39 and 40 ; Fig. 1, Plate 46). Emerging from the anterior surface of the internal portion of the pyriformis muscle it runs over the exterior of the spine j of the ischium, and then enters the pelvic cavity by the small sacro-sciatic foramen ; after it enters the pelvis, it ramifies upon the obturator interims muscle, along the interior of the external wall of the ischio-rectal fossa; this portion of its course has | been described (pages 18 and 33) and illustrated (Plates 7, 13, and 14. 42. Pudic Nerve. —This nerve, branch from the sacral plexus, appears with the last-described artery and accompa- nies it upon the exterior face of the spine of the.ischium ; it I enters the pelvic cavity, with the artery, by the small sacro- j sciatic foramen. Its subsequent course with the artery, along j the interior of the external wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, is de- scribed (page 18) and illustrated (Plates 7, 13, and 14). 43. Nerve to the Obturator Interims and the Gemellus Superior Muscles.—This nerve arises from the sacral plexus, J and accompanies the pudic artery and nerve across the exterior surface of the spine of the ischium ; running external to them. It re-enters the pelvis by the small sacro-sciatic foramen to supply the obturator interims muscle ; before entering the fora- men it sends a branch to the gemellus superior muscle. 44. Obturator Interims Muscle, Fig. 2, Plate 91, and Plates j 95 to 100, inclusive.—The internal attachment of the obturator internus muscle and its portion within the pelvic cavity lias been described (pages 17 and 84) and illustrated (Plates 39 and 40 ; and Fig. 1, Plate 46). It is projected into the deep plane j of the gluteal region through the small sacro-sciatic foramen; j it continues, externally, to its attachment to the trochanter major of the femur (Fig. 2, Plate 91). 45. Gemellus Superior Muscle.—This muscle is attached, internally, to the exterior surface of the spine of the ischium ; it continues therefrom, externally, between the obturator in- ternus and the pyriformis muscles, to where it fuses with the tendon of the obturator internus muscle.