ANTFRIOK OF THIGH. 115 30. Vastus Interims Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 93, and Plates 59, 61, 62 and 63.—This muscle occupies the inner face of the shaft and inner condyle of the femur; it is attached to the inner lip of the linea aspera, from which it winds around the inner surface of the femur, to fuse with the crureus, and blend, at its distal end, with the tendon of the rectus femoris. Com- pared with the vastus externus: it is the smaller of the two— that is, it does not rise as high upon the shaft of the femur; it covers the inner condyle of the femur, forming a cushion of muscle upon it, while the vastus externus does not cover the condyle of its side. 31. Quadriceps Extensor Femoris Muscle and its Com- pound Aponeurosis, Plates 59 and 61 to 65, inclusive.—The rectus femoris, the vastus internus, the crureus, and the vas- tus externus blend at their distal extremities, thus forming a quadriceps (four-headed) muscle, which is attached to the base and borders of the patella. Distal to the patella the quadri- ceps tendon is continued as a compound aponeurosis, which caps the anterior and the two lateral areas of the knee-joint, attaching itself to the tubercle of the patella (the so-called ligamentum patellae) and to the inner and outer tuberosities of the proximal end of the tibia. The proximal portion of the aponeurosis is lined by the anterior ligament of the knee-joint; it is separated from it, opposite the joint, by a layer of fat. 32. External Circumflex Artery, Plate 63.—This artery, branch of the profunda femoris, distributes distal branches to the muscles of the quadriceps group ; a proximal branch winds around the outer surface of the hip to the muscles of the gluteal region. 33. Muscle Branches of the Anterior Crural Nerve, Plates 61, 62 and 63.—From the deeper portion of the trunk of the anterior crural nerve, where the same is lodged in Scarpa's triangle, branches are given off, which may be traced to the following muscles : the sartorius, the pectineus (page 112), the rectus femoris, the vastus internus, the crureus and the vastus externus. Dissection.—Section the aponeurosis of the quadriceps muscle by a curved incision to the distal side of the patella (Plate 63) ; be careful not to cut into the joint, but expose a layer of fat, present between the aponeurosis and the