POSTERIOR REGION OF LEG AND POPLITEAL SPACE. 159 45. Intermuscular Fascia.—A layer of fascia separates the deep muscles, vessels, and nerves of the posterior region of the leg from the soleus muscle. It is attached as follows: to the fibula, between the flexor longus pollicis and the pero- neus longus and brevis muscles ; to the tibia, along the inner side of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. Dissection.—Remove the intermuscular layer of fascia from the subjacent vessels, nerves, and muscles. 46. Posterior Tibial Nerve, Plate 88.— This nerve is the distal continuation of the internal popliteal nerve ; it extends from the distal border of the popliteus muscle to the inner side of the calcaneum, where it bifurcates into the internal and the external plantar nerves. In the proximal quarter of its course it gives off, from its outer side, a branch to the flexor longus pollicis muscle ; and in its distal quarter, a plan- tar cutaneous branch. Dissection.—Extend the foot upon the leg (Plate 89). Clear (Plate 88) the surfaces of the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor longus digitorum muscles; trace them into the plantar region of the foot (Plate 89). Follow the nerves to these muscles from the distal portion of the internal popliteal nerve, and the posterior tibial nerve. 47. Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscle, Plates 83, 75, 88 and 89.—This muscle is attached to the distal two-thirds of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, Its distal, tendi- nous, portion passes over the ankle (Plate 89), to enter the plantar region of the foot, by a groove in the posterior border of the astragalus (Plate 75.) Its course, relations, and distal attachments, in the plantar region, were before described (pages 138,142, and 144) and illustrated (Plates 79 and 80). 48. Nerves to the Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscle, Plate 88. —The origin of the trunk of these nerves was described above ; the nerves can now be traced to the muscle. 49. Flexor Longus Digitorum Muscle, Plates 83, 75, 88 and 89.—The proximal end of this muscle is attached to the poste- rior surface of the distal two-thirds of the shaft of the tibia. Its distal end presents its initial tendon upon the posterior surface of the internal malleolus, where it enters the plantar region of the foot, distal to the malleolus (Plate 89); its plan-