312 UPPER EXTREMITY. faces of the cuneiform and pisiform bones. The posterior radio-carpal (Plate 172) has its proximal attachment to the styloid process, and the posterior border of the distal end, of the radius ; its fibres cross obliquely to the inner side, to their distal attachments at the posterior surfaces of the scaphoid, the semilunar, and the cuneiform bones of the carpus. The inter articular fibro-cartilage (Fig. 1, Plate 173) is at- tached to the inner border of the carpal articular surface of the distal end of the radius, and to the styloid process of the ulna. It is thus lodged between the cuneiform bone of the carpus and the distal end of the ulna. Its distal surface with that of the radius forms the proximal articular surface, which is opposed to the proximal row of the carpal bones. Dissection.—Cut the remaining ligaments of the outer half of the radio- carpal articulation, thus severing the hand from the bones of the forearm. Sec- tion the dorsal intermetacarpal, the dorsal carpo-metacarpal, and the dorsal carpal ligaments ; separate the bases of the metacarpal bones, also the carpal bones from each other, and demonstrate the interosseous ligaments between them. 8. Interosseous Ligaments of the Metacarpal and Carpal Regions—Interosseous ligaments will be found between : the opposed surfaces of the bases of the metacarpal bones, second to fifth, inclusive ; the base of the second metacarpal and the trapezium ; the fourth metacarpal and the unciform ; the os magnum and the unciform ; the scaphoid and the semilunar; the semilunar and the cuneiform. ABTICULATION OF ELBOW. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the elbow-joint so as to display the liga- ments of the same. Terms of Relation.—The same general and special terms used in describing the wrist-joint (page 309), will apply to the description of these joints. Bones of the Elbow-joint, Plates 121 and 163.—The bones of this joint are : the ulna—its olecranon process, coronoid process, great sigmoid notch, and small sigmoid notch ; the radius—its button-shaped head ; and the humerus—its troch- lea, capitellum, olecranon fossa, and coronoid fossa.