ANTEEIOE OF ELBOW, FOREAKM, AKD HAND. 231 (page 233). Cut the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle (Plate 131). and reflect it off of the pollex digit. Cut the median nerve to the proximal side of its terminal branches (Plate 131), and dissect away the branches, as in Plate 132. Clear the palmar surfaces of the flexor brevis (outer and inner heads), the adductor, and the opponens pollicis muscles. 91. Flexor Brevis Pollicis Muscle, Plates 122, 127, 129, 131, and 132. This muscle, of the pollex eminence, has two por- tions or heads, the outer and the inner. The outer head has proximal attachments to the trapezium and the annular liga- ment ; its distal end is attached, primarily, to the outer sesa- moid bone, opposite the palmar surface of the metacarpopha- langeal articulation of the first (pollex) digit ; secondarily, to the palmar surface of the outer tubercle of the base of the phalanx of the first digit, to the inner side of the attachment of the abductor pollicis muscle. The inner head has a proxi- mal attachment to the palmar surfaces of the trapezoid and os magnum of the carpus, and the base of the third metacarpal bone; its distal end is attached, primarily, to the inner sesa- moid bone, opposite the metacarpophalangeal articulation of the first digit ; and, secondarily, to the palmar surface of the inner tubercle of the base of the phalanx of the same digit, in common with the adductor pollicis muscle. A furrow exists at the palmar surface, between the two heads of the muscle, for the lodgment of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle (Plates 127, 129, 131, and 132). 92. Adductor PolIici§ Muscle.—This muscle has an inner attachment to the palmar surface of the third metacarpal bone (Plate 122); it crosses the second intermetacarpal space, the second metacarpal bone, and the first intermetacarpal space, to reach its outer attachment, to the inner tubercle on the palmar surface of the base of the phalanx of the first or pollex digit (Plate 122), in common with the distal end of the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. 93. Opponens Pollicis Muscle, Plates 122, 131, and 132.— This muscle, at the outer side of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the dorsal surface of the abductor pollicis, is attached : proxi- mally, to the trapezium and anterior annular ligament; dis- tally, to the palmar surface of the first metacarpal bone.