ANTERIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. 219 artery. The latter branch has a distal course, upon the palmar surface of the flexor brevis minimi digit! muscle and the fifth digital nerve, and is continued to the inner lateral digital sur- face of the fifth digit. 49. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti Muscle, Plates 122, 127, and 129.—This muscle is located between the abductor minimi digiti muscle and the minim or fourth tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle. It has a proximal attachment to the process of the unciform bone ; at its distal end it is at- tached to the inner side of the base of the phalanx of the fifth digit, in common with the abductor minimi digiti muscle. Upon its palmar surface are lodged the sixth digital artery and nerve. Between the proximal portions of it and the abductor minimi digiti muscle a triangular interval presents, for the transit, to a deep plane of the palm, of the deep palmar artery (page 218) and nerve, with the inner muscle branches of the latter. Dissection.—Eemove the middle portion of the palmar fascia, working from the pollex to the minim side, and in a distal direction to the digits sec- ond to fourth, inclusive. Clear the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle, longitudinally, from where they emerge from the dorsal surface of the anterior annular ligament to the digits. Note and probe their synovial sheaths (Fig. 2, Plate 4). 50. Anterior Annular Ligament, Plate 127.—This is a transverse stretch of fibrous tissue across the anterior of the carpus, between the proximal-limits of the pollex and minim eminences of the palm-from the scaphoid and trapezium bones, on the outer side, to the unciform and pisiform bones on the inner side. It forms, with the anterior surface of the bones of the carpus a channel, for the run of the tendons of the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum muscles and the median nerve, from the forearm into the palmar fossa region of the palm. 51. Superficial Palmar Arch.—This arterial arch (vena? comites) is the palmar curve of the ulnar artery, from the palmar surface of the proximal portion of the minim eminence to the inner border of the pollex eminence, where the arch is completed by anastomosing with the superficialis vola3 branch ot the radial artery (page 217). The arch lies upon the palmar