LOWER EXTREMITY. 126 the anterior border of the tibia and the anterior surface of the fibula (Plate 72) ; it isolates the muscles, which are lodged in the anterior tibio-fibular interosseons space (Plate 3). A spe- cial fascia, at the outer surface, isolates the peronens longus and brevis muscles (Plate 3). At the ankle it forms the ante- rior annular ligament, from the distal border of which it is continued npon the dorsum of the foot ; it is continuous at the borders of the foot with the plantar fascia (Plate 76). Dissection.—Cut away the subcutaneous veins and nerves from the dorsum of the foot. Incise the fascia, longitudinally, upon the several tendons, and discover their synovial sheaths, by introducing probes into them (as with the palmar tendons in Fig. 2, Plate 4). Eemove the fascia from the dorsum of the foot, clearing the tendons and defining the distal border of the anterior an- nular ligament. 13. Tendons npon the Dorsum of the Foot, Plates 71 and 72.—Between the malleoli four tendons enter from the leg upon the dorsum of the foot. They are from the inner to the outer side : that of the tibialis anticus, the extensor proprius pol- licis, the extensor longus digitorum (initial tendon), and the peroneus tertius muscles. The initial tendon of the extensor longus digitorum gives off four terminal tendons, which have a longitudinal course to the digits, second to fifth, inclusive. Dissection.—Clear away the subcutaneous veins and nerves from the fascia of the outer antero-lateral area of the leg ; incise the fascia along the outer side of the anterior border of the tibia, and reflect the same to the outer side of the leg, as far as its fibular attachment (Plate 72). Allow the fascia to remain upon the proximal portion of the tibialis anticus muscle (Plate 72). Preserve that portion of the fascia, which forms the anterior annular ligament, by defining its proximal border. 14. Anterior Annular Ligament.—This is a dense portion of the fascia, opposite the anterior surface of the distal ends of the tibia and fibula ; it is attached to the internal malleolus to the external malleolus and the dorsum of the distal portion of the calcaneum. It binds in place the outer anterolateral mus- cles of the leg, as they pass to the dorsum of the foot. A loop of the ligament isolates the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum (initial) and the peroneus tertius muscles. 15. Tibialis Anticus Muscle, Plates 67, 71, and 72.—This is attached to the proximal two-thirds of the outer surface of