ABDOMINAL VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. 87 dices epiploic?© (pellets of fat beneath its redundant peritoneal investiture) at the clefts between its saccule; by the continu- ous saccule of which it is formed; and by the three longitudi- nal bands, that are present upon its circumference. The latter were recognized at their commencement upon the csecum; they result from the bundling of the longitudinal muscular fibres of the intestine. The bands, taken continuously, are about half the length of this portion of the large intestine, consequently, the peculiar sacculse of this gut occur in its adaptation to the length of these bands. Dissection.—Slit open the colon of the large intestine, as was done with the small intestine. Dissect out a portion of one of the longitudinal bands and determine its structure. 6. Mucous Membrane of the Large Intestine, Fig. 3, Plate 47.__This surface of the large intestine presents three longi- tudinal furrows, corresponding to the exterior muscle bands ; between them the mucous membrane is raised into transverse prominences. Here and there more or less well defined, small, prominent points present—the solitary glands. Dissection.—Commence the dissection of the stomach, spleen, duodenum, pancreas and liver, en masse, by cutting through the duodenum just beyond the pylorus of the stomach, and separating the latter and the spleen from the other organs. Place the liver upon its anterior surface, with its inferior border upwards, and allow the duodenum and the pancreas to lie upon their posterior surfaces, inferior to and parallel with the superior border of the liver (Plate 48). Clear the exposed areas of the organs free of adventitious tissue, determining vessels and ducts. 7. Duodenum, Plate 48.—This, the superior portion of the small intestine, was described as it presents in situ (page 64). In its present dissection, its relations to the ductus communis choledochus should be especially determined. Dissection.—Cut away the anterior wall of the descending portion of the duodenum. Incise the ductus communis choledochus, and enter a fine probe through it into the duodenum (Plate 48); note the orifice of the ductus com- munis choledochus at the mucous membrane surface of the exposed posterior wall of the duodenum. 8. Ductus Communis Choledochus, Plates 48 and 49 — This duct, before described (pages 63 and 67) and illustrated