17 MALE PERINEUM. ischium, externally, and the rectum, internally. Its actual walls are, externally, the inferior portion of the obturator fascia, covering the interior of the obturator internus muscle ; internally, the levator am portion of the levator fascia, cov- ering the exterior of the levator ani portion of the levator ani et prostata muscle. Its superficial limits are, posteriorly, the inferior border of the gluteus maximus muscle; anteriorly, the base of the perineal fascia. Its shape is that of a wedge with its base at the skin, its sloping sides at the obturator and the levator fascia, respectively, while the junction of the two fascise forms the apex of the wedge and the bottom of the fossa. 7. Inferior Hemorrhoidal Artery, Plate 7.—This artery (vena comes), sometimes two, springs from the internal pudic artery in the external wall of the fossa ; it bridges the fossa and breaks up into branches, which distribute to the levator and sphincter ani muscles and the skin about the anus. 8. Inferior Hemorrhoidal Xerve—This nerve, some- times two, arises from that portion of the pudic nerve which is located in the external wall of the fossa; it crosses the fossa and distributes to the sphincter ani muscle and the skin of the rectal region. 9. Obturator Fa§cia The inferior portion of this fascia forms the external wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, lining the in- terior surface of the obturator internus muscle, which, in turn, lies upon the interior of the ischium. 10. Levator Fascia.—The levator ani portion of this plane of fascia (anal fascia of authors) covers the exterior of the levator ani portion of the levator ani et prostatse muscle, at the internal wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. This fascia is given off from the interior surface of the obturator fascia, which lines the ischio-pubic portion of the pelvic wall. It is attached an- teriorly at the bis-ischiatic fascial junction, at the base of the triangular ligament. Dissection.—Introduce the finger upon the obturator fascia, and distin- guish beneath the same, on the obturator internus muscle, the pudic vessels and nerve as they pass anteriorly to the urethral region of the perineum. Follow the hemorrhoidal artery or nerve to the external wall of the fossa and incise the obturator fascia so as to expose the pudic vessels and nerve. 2