304 UPPER EXTREMITY. 26. Pronator Radii Teres Muscle, Plates 163, 168 and 169. ■—The anterior portion of this muscle was before described (pages 212 and 224), and illustrated (Plates 121, 125, 126, 128. 129, 130, and Fig. 1, Plate 134). Its distal attachment presents at the outer side and posterior surface, of the shaft of the ra- dius, distal to the attachment of the supinator brevis muscle, and to the outer side of the radial attachment of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscle. 27. Posterior Interosseous Recurrent Artery, Plate 169.— This artery (venae coinites) has a proximal course from its giving off from the posterior interosseous artery, along the outer side of the ulna, and anteriorly to the posterior portion of the supinator brevis muscle. It distributes to the outer side of the elbow, contributing to its peri-articular plexus. 28. Posterior Interosseous Bferve.—The distal end of this nerve may be traced between the deep fascia and the posterior surface of the wrist, to its termination in a ganglion-like en- largement, from which branches are given off to the wrist-joint. 29. Third Perforating Branch of Anterior Interosse- ous Artery, Plates 168 and 169.—This artery (vense comites) may be traced, between the deep fascia and the posterior sur- face of the wrist, to where it anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. 30. Posterior Carpal Branch of Ulnar Artery, Plate 169. —This branch appears, posteriorly, at the inner side of the car- pus ; it gives off two carpal branches and the sixth dorsal digital artery. 31. Posterior Carpal Branches of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries, and the Posterior Carpal Arches.—There are two (sometimes only one) posterior carpal arterial arches (vena3 comites), a proximal and a distal, across the posterior of the carpus ; they are formed by the anastomoses of the posterior carpal branches of the radial and the ulnar arteries. The proximal arch receives anastomosing branches from the third perforating branch of the anterior interosseous artery. The distal arch gives off recurrent branches to the carpus ; its distal branches are the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal digital arteries.