LOWER EXTREMITY. 130 muscle branches to the contiguous muscles, gives off at the ankle-joint the external and internal malleolar branches, and is continued to the foot as the dorsalis pedis artery (page 128). It is lodged upon the anterior surface of the tibio-fibular inter- osseous ligament. 26. Anterior Tibial Nerve—This nerve joins the last- described artery in the proximal third of the interosseous space ; at first it lies to its outer side, then crosses to its inner side. It affords branches to the tibialis anticus, the extensor proprius pollicis, the extensor longus digitorum, and the pero- neus tertius muscles (the latter descending in the substance of the extensor longus digitorum muscle). Dissection.—Section the extensor brevis digitorum muscle (Plate 73) ; re- flect its proximal portion to its attachment, at which it may be cut; turn off its tendons to the toes and cut them (do not dissect them at the dorsal surfaces of the digits, second to fourth, inclusive). Find the nerve and artery supplying the muscle—they enter its deep surface. Trace the branches of the dorsalis pedis artery; the dorsal digital, the dorsal collateral digital, and the perforat- ing arteries. 27. Brandies of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery, Plate 74.— These are the tarsal, and the branches of bifurcation—the metatarsal and the second dorsal digital. The tarsal crosses to the outer side of the tarsal region, supplying the extensor breyis digitorum muscle and the tarsal joints, and anastomosing with the external malleolar, of the anterior tibial, and the meta- tarsal. The metatarsal crosses, to the outer side of the tarsal region, upon the dorsal surface of the bases of the metatar- sal bones—second, third, and fourth ; it anastomoses as just stated. 2§. Dorsal Digital Arteries, Plates 71 and 74.—These are six arteries (venae comites), as follows: the first is a branch of the second, which runs upon the dorsal surface, and along the inner side of the distal portion, of the first. meta- tarsal bone ; the second is one of the branches of bifurca- tion of the dorsalis pedis, and is lodged in the first inter- metatarsal space (page 128); the third, fourth, and fifth are distal branches from the metatarsal, having a distal course in the second, third, and fourth intermetatarsal spaces ; the