TRUNK. 86 the alimentary canal from the (Esophageal end of the stomach to the anus; special variations will be noted in the different portions of the canal. Dissection.—Cut the ascending colon about six inches from the junction of the ileum with the large intestine. Note the relation of the ileum to the caecum and colon, and that of the appendix vermiformis to all three. Demon- strate the action of the ileo-colic valve, by filling first the ileum and then the colon and caecum with water; note that while the water will flow readily from the former into the latter, it is impossible to effect the reverse current. Cut away the external side of the large intestine opposite the ileo-colic valve (Fig. 6, Plate 47). 3. Cfecum of the Large Intestine, Figs. 4, 5 and 6, Plate 47.—The caecum is the sac of the large intestine, which is in- ferior to the entrance of the ileum of the small intestine into the large intestine. At the junction of the caecum with the colon the ileum of the small intestine opens ; the two intestines are separated by a valve—ileo colic valve. Upon the surface of the caecum its longitudinal muscular fibres are seen so col- lected as to form three bands, one anterior, one postero-external, and one postero-internal; it is these bands that determine its sacculated character. The open caecum and colon (Fig. 6, Plate 47) show the*large intestine side of the ileo-colic valve; it is formed by two reduplications of the mucous membrane, which determine a button-hole slit of communication. Dissection.—Search for the orifice of the canal of the appendix vermiformis into the cgecum ; pass a probe into the same, and slit open the appendix. 4. Appendix Vermiformis, Plates 35 and 37 ; Figs. 4, 5, and 6, Plate 47.—This is a blind tube, from two to six inches long, appended to the caecum ; its relation to the caecum and ileum varies, but, as a rule, it is curled interiorly and internally to them, having a special meso. Its canal opens into the caecum, passing through its wall obliquely^ thereby forming a valvular opening. Its mucous membrane lining differs from that of the caecum. Dissection.—Clear the ascending, transverse and descending colon of shreds of meso-colon and omentum. 5. Colon of the Large Intestine, Plate 35.—This portion of the large intestine is distinguished as follows : by the appen-