238 LOWER EXTREMITY. regions of the plantar area of the foot. Its proximal attach- ment is to the inner tuberosity of the caleaneum and to the plantar ligaments ; in the metatarsal region it forms a tendon, which joins the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle ; the two muscles have a common point of attachment to the inner side of the base of the phalanx of the pollex digit. In its course it covers the tendons of the tibialis posticus and anti- cus muscles. Dissection —Eemove the outer portion of the plantar fascia; track, in a proximal direction beneath the fascia, the fifth and sixth digital nerves, and the first digital artery (Plate 77), to where they emerge from a deeper plane. Clear the plantar surface of the abductor minimi digiti muscle. 21 Fiftli and Sixth Digital Nerves, Plate 77.-These nerves, branches of the superficial branch of the external plantar nerve, appear in the distal angle of divergence of the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor minimi digiti muscles : the fifth distal nerve bifurcates into the plantar collateral digital nerves°to the fourth and fifth digits; the sixth digital nerve has been before described (page 135). 22. First Digital Artery. — This artery (vena3 comites), branch of the external plantar, accompanies the sixth digital nerve, lying to its outer side ; its distal portion has already been described (page 135). Its anastomotic branch to the sec- ond digital artery passes to the dorsal surface of the minim flexor tendons. 23. Abductor Minimi Digiti Muscle, Plates 75, 77, and 78. —This muscle extends along the minim border of the foot; its proximal attachment is to the caleaneum, and to the plantar ligaments ; its distal attachment is to the outer side of the , proximal end of the shaft of the phalanx of the fiftli digit. Dissection.-Out away the sheaths of the flexor tendons and expose the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle, and the digital ends of the terminal tendons of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. Clear the surfaces of the ex- posed areas of the flexor brevis pollicis, the lumbricales, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles. Determine the distal portions of the second, third, fourth, and fifth digital arteries. 24 Tendon of the Flexor longus Pollicis Mnscle, Plates 77 and 78.—The tendon of this muscle emerges from the dorsal