PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. 143 are attached to the contiguous terminal tendons ; their distal ends form tendons, which pass over the inner sides of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, second to fifth, inclusive. 43. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti Muscle, Plates 75 and 77 to 81, inclusive.—This muscle occupies the plantar surface of the fifth metatarsal bone. Its proximal attachment is to the plantar surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the contiguous portion of the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle ; it has a distal and slightly oblique course to its attachment, at the outer side of the base of the phalanx of the fifth digit. 44. Transversus Pedis Muscle, Plates 79 and 80.—Por- tions of the plantar surface of this muscle appear between the distal ends of the lumbricales muscles and the terminal tendons of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. 45. Adductor Pollicis Muscle, Plates 77 to 80, inclusive.— Between the first lumbricalis and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscles a small area of this muscle presents. 46. Interosseous Muscles, Plates 79 and 80.—Between the inner border of the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle and the •outer border of the minim terminal tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle portions of the third plantar, the fourth dor- sal, and the second plantar interosseous muscles appear. 47. Tendons of the Peroneus Longus and Peroneus Bre- vis Muscles, Plates 79 and 80.—Along the minim border of the tarsal region these two tendons present: the longus tendon running in its sheath along the outer border of the flexor ac- cessorius muscle ; the brevis tendon along the outer border of the longus tendon. Dissection.—Cut the proximal ends of the internal plantar artery and nerve (Plate 79), and dissect away their distal portions. Section the initial tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle, and the flexor accessorius muscle (Plate 80); reflect the distal portions of the tendons over the toes, carrying the lumbricales muscles with the terminal digitorum tendons. Determine the slip of communication be- tween the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle and the distal portion of the initial tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle ; after which the slip may be cut. In raising the fourth and third lumbricales muscles note the nerves that enter their dorsal surfaces ; trace the nerves to the second plantar