ANTEEO-LATEEAL AEEA OF THE NECK. 371 they run parallel with, and superiorly to, the third portion of the subclavian artery, and enter the axilla (Plate 120). Dissection.—Dissect away, on the left side, the common carotid, the infe- rior portion of the external carotid with its branches, and the inferior portion of the internal carotid, by the following steps : section as in Plate 197 the left common carotid artery and reflect it superiorly ; continue its reflection, so as to raise the external carotid, cutting (Plate 195;, in order, the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, and occipital arteries; and, as in Plate 197, the external, and internal carotid arteries. Section (Plate 197) the left pneumogastric nerve, superiorly and inferiorly, and dissect away the included part. Display the cervical portion of the left sympathetic nerve ; section the nerve, inferiorly and superiorly (Plate 197), and dissect away the portion be- tween the cuts. Expose (Plate 197) completely, the thyro-hyoid muscle ; also the anterolateral surfaces of the hyoid bone, the larynx, the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, the thyroid body, and the inferior thyroid veins. 57. Thyro-hyoid Muscle, Plates 190 and 192 to 197, inclu- sive.—This muscle extends, inferiorly, from the inferior border of the hyoid bone to the exterior of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx. 58. Hyoid Bone.—This movable, shaped, bone is located at the anterior and superior of the neck. It is held in position by the antagonism of the muscles attached to it: inferiorly, the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid (anterior belly), and thyro-hyoid; superiorly, the digastric (anterior belly), mylo-hyoid, genio- hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus ; posteriorly, the digastric (poste- rior belly), stylo-hyoid, and middle constrictor (of the pharynx). 59. Larynx, Plates 190, 195, 196, and 197.—Of this organ portions present of the exterior of its thyroid cartilage, cricoid cartilage, crico-thyroid muscles and crico-thyroid membrane ligament. 60. Thyro-hyoid membrane or Ligament, Plates 190, and 194 to 197, inclusive.—This is a stretch of fibrous tissue be- tween the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage of the larynx. It lies in a plane posteriorly to the superior ends of the sterno- hyoid, omo-hyoid (anterior belly), and thyro-hyoid muscles. 61. Thyroid Body, Plates 195, 196, and 197.—This organ (weight in adult about one ounce and a half) is, comparatively, larger in infantile than later life, and in women than in men.