36 TRUNK. with the perineal and levator fasciae ; it is attached to the ten- dinous centre of the perineum ; at the latter joint it is more pos- terior than in the male. 22. Artery of the Bulb, Fig. 2, Plate 15 ; Fig. 3, Plate 16. —This artery (vena comes) perforates the triangular ligament, to distribute as its name implies. 23. ©een Perineal Artery, Fig. 2, Plate 15, and Plate 17.— This artery (vena comes) pierces the triangular ligament, passes anteriorly, and bifurcates into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the deep dorsalis clitoridis artery. 24. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum, Fig. 2, Plate 15.— This artery (vena comes) enters the interior surface of the cms clitoridis ; it sends a branch to the vicinity of the meatus urinarius. 25. Deep Borsalis Clitoridis Artery, Fig. 2, Plate 15 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 16.—This branch passes, anteriorly, between the crus and the os pubis, to reach the base of the suspensory liga- ment of the clitoris (page 37). 26. Deep Perineal Nerve, Plate 17.—This nerve pierces the triangular ligament to become, exteriorly, the deep dorsalis clitoridis nerve, which accompanies the last-described artery. Dissection.— Restore the crura, the bulb, and the sphincter vaginae mus- cles to their normal position; apply a hook into the free end of the clitoris, and extend'it horizontally. Make a median-line incision through the skm of the dorsum of the clitoris and the mons veneris ; then reflect skin flaps. 2T. Superficial Dorsalis Clitoridis Vessels and Nerves, Fig. 1, Plate 16.—These vessels and nerves are located on the dor- sum and lateral surfaces of the clitoris, in its subcutaneous plane. A superficial dorsalis clitoridis artery (vena comes) is a branch of a superior external pudic artery. A superficial dor- salis clitoridis nerve is contributed by an ilio-hypogastric nerve. Dissection.—Eemove the superficial dorsal vessels and nerves of the cli- toris • trace the anterior tendinous extremities of the sphincter vaginse mus- cles to the dorsum of the clitoris, then cut them away and expose the elastic suspensory ligament and sheath of the clitoris.