ANTERIOE OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. 225 teres muscle; raise it from beneath the median nerve ; and reflect it off of the inner side of the elbow ; turn the distal portion of the muscle off of the outer side of the forearm. Display the proximal border of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle; also its radial and ulnar attachments. Follow the median nerve, to where it passes to the posterior surface of the flexor sublimis digi- torum muscle ; note its branch to the latter muscle, also its anterior interos- seous branch, with the muscle branches of the latter nerve. Expose the proxi- mal portion of the ulnar artery, to where it passes to the posterior surface of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle; also, its anterior ulnar recurrent, poste- rior ulnar recurrent, and common interosseous branches. 72. Radial Artery, Plates 128 and 130.—This artery (venae comites) has been partially described (page 212) ; at present its whole course through the forearm is exposed, from its origin, from the bifurcation of the brachial, to its winding to the dorsum of the carpus, at the outer side of the latter. It lies, succes- sively, upon the anterior surfaces of the tendon of the biceps, the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and pro- nator quadratus muscles, and upon the anterior surface of the distal end of the radius. Its branches, the radial recurrent (page 216) and the superficialis volse (page 217), have been de- scribed ; near the latter branch, it gives off the anterior radial carpal artery, to the anterior of the carpus (Fig. 2, Plate 134). 73. Radial Nerve.—This nerve may now be followed from its origin, at the bifurcation of the musculo-spiral nerve, across the anterior of the elbow, and through the forearm, to where it passes to the dorsal surface of the limb, at its distal quarter. It runs parallel with, and to the outer side of, the tendon of the biceps muscle and the radial artery, upon the anterior sur- faces of the supinator brevis, flexor sublimis digitorum, and the flexor longus pollicis muscles. 74. median Nerve.—This nerve, which was seen passing between the anterior and posterior proximal portions of the pronator radii teres muscle (Plate 126), gives off the anterior interosseous nerve and the nerve to the flexor sublimis digi- torum muscle. The nerve-trunk passes to a deep plane, pos- teriorly to the latter muscle. 75. Anterior Interosseous Nerve and its Muscle Branches. —This nerve, branch from the outer side of the median, gives off muscle branches to the flexor profundus digitorum and the 15