PREFACE. vi trated, irrespective of the contiguous dissections upon which it may encroach. The bones of the body have not been described in detail; their practical relations to the anatomical elements of the sev- eral dissections are shown in the Plate illustrations of their surfaces with the areas they afford for muscle attachments ;■ together with their presentation in the progressive steps of the dissections. The attachments of muscles are given without any distinc- tion as to their being the origin and insertion of the same ; it is more natural and clear to enumerate the attachments only. The illustrations include the following : 153 full-page, original, Plates ; 51 Plates, of 132 original Figures ; 6 full-page Plates selected from standard authors ; 9 Plates, of 25 Figures selected from standard authors ; Plate 56, of one original and two selected Figures ; Plate 66, of one original and one selected Figure ; 15 original text Figures. The original Plates and Figures were sketched and drawn by Mr. Maximilian Cohn from dissections by the author. The illustration and description of the complete distribution of the sympathetic nervous system, and of the lymphatic sys- tem, have not been given, as they do not come within the scope of the work. The dissection of the globe of the eye, and of the auditory apparatus have been omitted. No reference has been made to surgical and medical or ap- plied anatomy, as it is deemed best to do one thing at a time. Moreover, the systematic mastery of the anatomy of the body places one in a position to make practical applications of the same, to the elucidation of surgical, medical, and obstetrical problems; and to read, appreciatively, the special works on surgical and medical anatomy. That which can be demonstrated to the unaided eye is the province of anatomy ; therefore, the structure of parts, requir- ing the aid of the microscope, has not been alluded to, as it belongs to Histology. The practitioner of surgery and medicine, in the absence of a cadaver to refer to, has been much in need of illustrations of anatomy, that would present him a progressive series of