ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC INTERIORS. 81 dinous centre, a circumferential muscle portion and two crura. It is attached as follows : to the interiors of the ensiform car- tilage of the sternum and the cartilages of the six inferior ribs, right and left; to the ligamenta arcuata externa—arches of fibrous tissue, that bridge from the cartilages of the twelfth rib to the transverse processes of the first lumbar vertebra ; to the ligamenta arcuata interna—internal fibrous arches from the transverse processes of the first lumbar vertebra to the lateral surfaces of the body of the same vertebra ; to the an- terior surfaces of the bodies of the four superior lumbar verte- bras, by the crura of the muscle. From the abdomen, the fibres are seen to converge from their circumferential attachments to a fibrous portion—the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. Be- fore the removal of the heart from the thorax, the diaphragm maintains the shape of an antero-posterior half-arch over the abdomen (the arch deficient anteriorly) ; the arch is maintained by the parietal layer of the pericardium, being attached to the superior surface of the tendinous centre inferiorly and to the fixed large vessels, projected from the base of the heart, su- periorly ; by it the centre of the diaphragm is held up and rendered almost immovable, during inspiration and expiration, respectively. The muscle presents three large openings of communication with the thorax ; the aortic, the oesophageal and the caval. The aortic opening is located opposite the twelfth dorsal vertebra, between the crura; it gives transit to the aorta, the left lymphatic or thoracic duct and the right vena azygos. The oesophageal opening is located a little to the left and anterior to the aortic; it allows the oesophagus and the right and left pneumogastric nerves to pass from the thorax into the abdomen. The caval opening is through the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, to the right of, and an- terior to the vertebral column ; it allows the vena cava inferior to pass from the abdomen into the thorax. The right and left cms are perforated by the sympathetic nerve-trunks and the splanchnic nerves of the sides respectively ; the left crus gives transit also to the vena azygos minor vein. 36. Psoas Parvus Muscle, Plate 44, and Plates 39 to 43 in- clusive.—This small muscle, when present, is attached to the lateral surface of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra (Plate 42); it emerges from beneath the ligamentum arcuatum 6