LOWER EXTREMITY. 166 terior region of the thigh, between the adductor magnus and the gracilis muscles (page 120; Plates 64 and 65). 11. Adductor Magnus Muscle.—This muscle, though in a plane anterior to the three last-described muscles, presents at two points distal to the inferior border of the gluteus maximus muscle : in the proximal angle formed by the gracilis and the semimembranosus muscles ; and in the proximal angle be- tween the long and the short heads of the biceps. 12. Popliteal Space.— The popliteal space, with its con- tents, in situ, is described (page 154) and illustrated (Plates 85 and 86); it is reproduced in this dissection to enable the ap- preciation of the continuity of parts from the thigh to the leg. Dissection.— Section the gluteus maximus muscle (Plate 93) and reflect its portions, externally and internally. In raising the portions of the muscle, note the bursas beneath the muscle ; also the vessels and nerves that enter its deep surface. Cut away the inferior part of its external portion, close to its femoral attachment, and the superior part thereof with the fascia lata, to which it is attached ; cut the vessels and nerves entering its anterior surface. 13. Gluteus Maximus Muscle, Plates 91, 93, 94, and 95.— The reflection of the external portion of this muscle will deter- mine its attachment to the fascia lata of the thigh, superiorly, and to the femur, interiorly—at the inner side of the proximal portion of the outer lip of the linea aspera. Its internal at- tachments are : to the exterior surfaces of the postero-in- ternal border of the os innominatum, and the external borders of the sacrum and coccyx ; to the posterior surfaces of the sacro-iliac and great sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection.— Abduct the limb, so as to bring the inner side of the leg against the border of the table. Clear the area anterior to the gluteus maximus muscle, so as to expose the bursse under the muscle, the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the pyriformis muscle, the proximal portion of the small sciatic nerve, the inferior gluteal nerve, the great sciatic nerve, the sciatic artery and its branches, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery, and the posterior surface of the gluteus medius muscle. Cut away the internal portion of the gluteus maximus muscle, as in Plate 95. 14. Bursa- Beneath the Oluteus Maximus Muscle, Plate 96; and Fig. 1, Plate 4.—Two large bursa3 present beneath the gluteus maximus muscle : one on the tuberosity of the ischium ; the other upon the trochanter major of the femur.