POSTERIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, HAND, AND DIGITS. 307 133). Their distal ends are projected along the inner side of the second, and the outer sides of the fourth and fifth meta- carpophalangeal articulations, respectively, to where they end in fibrous expansions, which fuse with, and contribute to, the compound digital extensor aponeuroses of the second, fourth, and fifth digits, respectively. As a tendon of one of these mus- cles passes a metacarpophalangeal joint, it sends a slip to the palmar ligament of the joint (Fig. 4, Plate 170). 43. Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, Plates 122, 163, and 169 ; Figs. 1, 2, and 3, Plate 170.—The palmar surfaces of these four muscles have been described (page 234) and illustrated (Plates 122, 132, and 133). In demonstrating their distal ends (Fig. 3, Plate 170), each muscle will be found to have a palmar and a dorsal portion. The palmar portion has its proximal attach- ment to the palmar half of the lateral surface of a metacarpal bone (Plate 122), and its distal attachment to the same side of the base of the phalanx of the corresponding digit (Fig. 3, Plate 170). The dorsal portion has proximal attachments to the dorsal halves of the lateral surfaces of the two metacarpal bones bounding the intermetacarpal space in which the muscle is lodged (Plate 163); the two proximal attachments blend into a plane of muscle, which bridges the intermetacarpal space (Plate 169); the portion narrows to a tendon, which crosses the side of the metacarpophalangeal articulation of the digit, then expands and fuses into the compound digital extensor aponeu- rosis of the digit. 44. Compound Digital Extensor Aponeuroses, Plates 163 and 170.—Upon the dorsum of each digit, second to fifth, in- clusive, is an aponeurotic expansion, formed by the fusion of the tendons of'the digital extensors, the lumbricales, the palmar interosseous, and the dorsal interosseous muscles. The tendons of the three latter muscles are, respectively, received at the lat- eral borders of the extensor tendons, in the phalanx segments of the digits. That of the second digit is formed by (Fig. 2, Plate 170): a terminal tendon of the extensor communis digitorum muscle ; the tendon of the extensor indicis muscle ; the tendon of the dorsal portion of the first dorsal interosseous muscle and that of the first lumbricalis muscle, at the outer side ; the tendon of the first palmar interosseous muscle, at the