167 GLUTEAL AKD POSTERIOR THIGH REGIONS. 15. Great Sacro-Sciatic Ligament, Plates 95, 99, and 100. —This ligament extends from the exterior of the tuberosity of the ischium to the posterior surfaces of the sacrum, near its external border, and of the posterior inferior spinous process of the ilium portion of the os innominatum. 16. Pyriformis Muscle, Plates 91 and 95 to 100, inclusive.— The internal attachment of this muscle, at the interior of the pelvis, was before described (page 82) and illustrated (Plate 42 ; Fig. 1, Plate 45 ; and Fig. 1, Plate 46). The muscle is pro- jected from the pelvis into the gluteal region, through the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; it has an attachment to the superior border of the foramen. It takes a somewhat oblique course, externally, to its attachment to the antero-superior part of the internal surface ol the trochanter major of the femur. 17. Small Sciatic \erve, Plates 95 to 100, inclusive.—The proximal portion of this nerve, anterior to the gluteus maxi- mus muscle, may be traced to its point of emergence into the gluteal region, from the anterior of, and at the inferior border of, the internal half of the pyriformis muscle. It gives off the inferior pudendal nerve, which winds inferiorly to the tuber- osity of the ischium to reach the external genitalia (pages 16 and 32 ; Plates 6 and 13). 18. Inferior Gluteal Xerve.—This nerve emerges into the gluteal region with the last-described nerve. It breaks up into a number of branches, which enter the anterior surface of the superior part of the gluteus maximus muscle ; so close is the relation of the proximal end of this nerve and the small sciatic nerve, that it requires care to separate them. 19. Sciatic Artery.—In the reflection of the portions of the gluteus maximus muscle arterial branches were cut, which entered the inferior part of its anterior surface ; the stumps may be followed to the sciatic artery (venas comites), which enters the gluteal region at the inferior border of the pyri- formis muscle ; at the latter point it is internal to, and in close relation with, the small sciatic nerve. Besides affording branches to the gluteus maximus muscle, the trunk of this ar- tery gives off an articular branch (to the hip-joint), which runs, externally, along the inferior border of the pyriformis muscle!