296 TTPPEK EXTREMITY. 2. Posterior Ulnar and Radial Veins.—A variable number of subcutaneous veins present upon the dorsal surface of the hand, which receive tributary veins from the digits. The pos- terior ulnar vein has a proximal course from the dorsal veins of the hand through the inner half of the forearm ; its proximal end winds to the anterior surface of the elbow, where it joins the median-basilic vein (page 208 ; Plate 123). The posterior radial vein has a proximal course from the dorsal veins of the hand, through the outer half of the forearm ; its proximal end winds to the anterior surface of the elbow, where it joins the median-cephalic vein (page 208 ; Plate 123). 3. Posterior Cutaneous Merves of the Forearm, Hand, and Digits.—Along the inner side of the forearm posterior branches of the internal cutaneous nerve present (page 208 ; Plate 123). In the proximal portion of the outer side of the forearm the superior and inferior external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve ramify. In the distal third of the outer side of the forearm the radial nerve appears posteriorly; it has a distal course over the carpus to the dorsal surface of the metacarpus, where it breaks up into the first, second, and third dorsal digital nerves. The latter nerves are distributed as fol- lows : the first dorsal digital nerve is projected along the outer side of the first metacarpal region, to become the first dorsal collateral digital nerve; the second digital nerve bifurcates into the second and third dorsal collateral digital nerves ; the third digital nerve is continued to where it bifur- cates into the fourth and fifth dorsal collateral digital nerves. The posterior carpal nerve, branch of the ulnar nerve, appears, posteriorly, at the inner side of the carpus and gives off the following branches: the sixth dorsal digital nerve, which is continued along the inner border of the meta- carpus to become the tenth dorsal collateral digital nerve; the communicating nerve, which bifurcates, its branches cross- ing the metacarpus to anastomose with the third dorsal digital and the fifth dorsal collateral digital nerves ; the fifth dorsal digital nerve, which is projected to the cleft between the fourth and fifth digits, where it bifurcates into the ninth and eighth dorsal collateral digital nerves ; and the fourth dorsal digital nerve, which advances to the cleft between the third and fourth digits, where it bifurcates into the sixth and seventh dorsal collateral digital nerves.