391 SOFT AND HARD PALATE. 10. Gustatory Nerve.—The superior portion of this nerve has been described (page 352), and illustrated (Plates 187, 188, 201, and 203). It runs externally to the styloglossus muscle (Plate 204), to reach the anterior of the lateral border and dor- sum of the tongue, where its branches innervate the papillae of that area of its mucous membrane. 11. Sublingual Glandular Ti§sue.—This is an aggregation of small masses of salivary gland tissue, located in the submu- cous plane of the floor of the buccal cavity, at the external surface of the anterior portion of genio-hyo-glossus muscle. From it numerous ducts (the ducts of Rivini) open, through the mucous membrane, into the buccal cavity. 12. Genio-hyo-glossus Muscle: Plates 190 and 204 ; Fig. 1, Plate 205.—This muscle is attached to bone : anteriorly, to the superior genial tubercle of the posterior surface of the body of the inferior maxillary bone (Plate 190) ; posteriorly, to the body of the hyoid bone (Fig. 1, Plate 205). Its glossal portion is formed b}^ the free ends of its fibres, which blend into the half of the tongue. SOFT AND HAKD PALATE (Continued from page 387). Dissection.—Place the superior portion of the half head (as sectioned page 389) with the inferior surfaces of the hard and soft palate uppermost (Fig. 2, Plate 205) ; introduce a wad of oakum under the soft palate ; pass a loop into the uvula and make the soft palate taut. Make a median-line incision (Fig. 2, Plate 205) of the anteroinferior mucous membrane of the soft palate ; reflect the left half of the same and display the inferior face of the horizontal portion of the left tensor palati muscle, and the posterior portion of the left azygos uvulse muscle. Dissect (Fig. 2, Plate 205) the mucous membrane from the internal surfaces of the superior portions of the right palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus muscles, and the right tonsil. 9. Tensor Palati Muscle, Fig. 2, Plate 205.—The postero- superior face of the horizontal portion of this muscle was before described (page 385) and illustrated (Plate 203). Its anterior- inferior or buccal surface stretches, internally, from the curve of the muscle around thehamular process of the internal pla'te of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone ; it widens as it advances to the median-line raphe, between it and its fellow of the opposite side.