REGION OF THE BACK. 275 verse ligaments, and run internally to, and parallel with, the levatores costarum muscles. They bifurcate, respectively, into an internal (cutaneous) and an external (muscular) branch. 37. Arteries Accompanying the Posterior Divisions of the 1 Lnmbar and Dorsal Spinal Nerves.—These arteries are : in the lumbar region, posterior branches of the lumbar arteries ; in the dorsal region, posterior branches of the intercostal arteries. Dissection.—Clear tlie posterior surfaces of the cranio-vertebral muscles of the sixth plane of muscles, which pass from the second and first cervical vertebrae to the occipital bone. In exposing these muscles be careful to pre- serve the nerves and arteries, which are contiguous to them. 38. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor, Plate 147 and Fig. 2, Plate 150.—This internal, and longitudinal, muscle is attached : interiorly, to the superior surface of the posterior arch of the first cervical vertebra; superiorly, to the internal portion of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. 39. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major Muscle.—This external, and oblique, muscle is attached : inferiorly, to the lateral sur- face of the spinous process of the second cervical vertebra ; superiorly, to the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, externally to the attachment of the last-described muscle. 40. OMiquus Inferior Muscle.—This oblique muscle lies inferiorly to, and parallel with, the last-described muscle. It is attached: internally, to the lateral surface of the spinous process of the second cervical vertebra ; externally, to the pos- tero-inferior surface of the transverse process of the first cervi- cal vertebra. 41. Ofoliquus Superior Muscle.—This muscle is attached : inferiorly and externally, to the superior surface of the trans- verse process of the first cervical vertebra; superiorly and in- ternally, to the occipital bone, between its superior and inferior curved lines, externally to the attachment of the complexus muscle. Dissection. —Trace the deep cervical and the cervicalis princeps arteries; also, the posterior branches of the vertebral artery. Display the posterior di- visions of the cervical spinal nerves.