TRUNK. 30 a. Hons Veneris.—This is the area upon the exterior sur- face of the symphysis pubis and the bodies of the ossa pubis ; it is a cushion of adipose tissue, covered by skin ; in the adult the skin presents a growth of hair. b. Labia Majora.—These are two antero-posterior lips, analogues of the halves of the male scrotum, which are di- vided, on the median line, by the uro-genital f urrow. Pos- teriorly, the labia are joined to form the posterior commis- sure ; anteriorly, they are approximated only, and are, re- spectively, continued into the inguinal region of a side. Ex- ternally, a labium is covered by skin, which, in the adult, is furnished with hair ; internally, or in the uro-genital furrow, its surface is covered, exteriorly, by skin, and interiorly, by mucous membrane. The skin lining of the furrow is richly supplied with sebaceous glands ; the mucous-membrane lining is continued into the vagina, urethra, and ducts of the vulvo- vaginal glands. c. Clitoris—This is located at the anterior of the uro-genital furrow; it is the analogue of the male penis, from which it differs in size, and in not being tunnelled by the urethra. d. Labia Minora.—These are two folds of mucous mem- brane, which form the analogue of the skin and prepuce of the male penis. Anteriorly, they join upon the anterior of the clitoris, to form its prepuce ; posteriorly, they diverge into two labia, which merge into the anterior halves of the uro-genital- furrow surfaces of the labia majora. e. Vestibule.—This is a triangular area of mucous mem- brane at the middle of the floor of the uro genital furrow ; it has : the clitoris, at its apex, anteriorly ; the vaginal orifice, at -its base, posteriorly ; the labia minora, at its sides. f. Meatus Urinarius.—This, the outlet of the urethra, pre- sents on the median line of the vestibule, anteriorly to its base. g. Vaginal Orifice.—This is located : posteriorly to the ves- tibule ; anteriorly to the posterior commissure of, and between the posterior halves of, the labia majora. It may be occluded by a membrane—the hymen—or rimmed by the remnants of the same—the carunculce myrtiformes.