387 TONGUE AND CONTIGUOUS PARTS. 8. Pillars and Tonsils of the Soft Palate, Plates 203 and 204—The pillars of the soft palate are two pairs of half arches at the sides of the posterior orifice of the buccal cavity. Those of a side diverge, inferiorly, from the body of the soft palate : the posterior pillar, determined by the palato-pharyngeus muscle (page 384 ; Plate 203), is directed, inferiorly, and a little posteriorly, to the lateral wall of the pharynx ; the anterior pillar, formed by the palatoglossus muscle (page 386; Plate 204), is projected, inferiorly, to the posterior of the lateral bor- der of the tongue. The tonsils are aggregations of follicles, which are lodged in the submucous plane of the spaces be- tween the pillars of the soft palate, right and left ; the follicles are lined by involutions of the buccal mucous mem- brane, and open into the buccal cavity. The muscles or pillars and the tonsils of the soft palate are lined, interiorly, by mucous membrane, and are covered exteriorly by the superior constrictor muscle (Plate 204). Dissection.—At this point dissect the tongue and contiguous parts, after which the dissection of the soft and hard palate may be completed (page 391). TONGUE AND CONTIGUOUS PARTS. Terms of Relation.—The following will be used in this dis- section : the general terms (page 2) ; and the special terms in- terior and exterior—relatively to the buccal cavity—dorsum, base, apex, and lateral border—to the tongue. Bone Attachments of Extrinsic Muscles of tne Tongue, Plate 190.—The bones affording attachments to these muscles are : the splienoid (at its hamular processes) ; the right and left temporal (at the styloid processes of their petrous por- tions) ; the inferior maxillary (at the posterior and internal surfaces of its. body); the liyoid (at the superior surfaces of its body and grea't cornu). Dissection.—Section (as in Plate 204) the right glossopharyngeal nerve and dissect away its superior portion. Trace (Plate 204) the inferior and an- terior part of the gustatory nerve, along the lateral border of the tongue. Fol- low (Plate 204) the duct of the submaxillary gland, anteriorly ; and display the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and the sublingual glandular tissue. Dissect out (Plate 204) the anterior of the hypoglossal nerve. 1. Right Submaxillary Oanglion, Plates 201 and 204.— This ganglion, one of the cephalic ganglia of the sympathetic