ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC INTERIOKS. 75 surface of the obturator internus muscle, to where it leaves the pelvic cavity by its foramen in the obturator membrane, to distribute in the thigh. §. Superior Vesical Artery, Plate 39.—This artery (vena comes) distributes as its name implies. There is continued from it the obliterated hypogastric artery (page 55). 9. Uterine Artery.—This vessel (venae comites) enters be- tween the folds of the broad ligament of the uterus, passing to the side of the neck of that organ, whence it is distributed to the uterus and vagina, as will be shown hereafter. 10. Inferior Vesical Artery.—In the male, this artery (ve- nae comites) distributes to the bladder, rectum, etc.; in the female it becomes the vaginal artery, which sends branches to the vagina, bladder and rectum. 11. Pudic Artery.—This artery (venae comites), which takes its origin from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery, leaves the pelvic cavity by the great sacro-sciatic foramen, posterior to the spine of the ischium, to reach the exterior surface of the same. Before leaving the pelvic cavity it gives off the middle hemorrhoidal artery. Its return to the pelvic cavity anterior to the spine of the ischium, and its course in the external wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, etc., was seen in the dissection of the perineum (Male Perineum, page 18). 12. Sciatic Artery.—This artery (venae comites), arising as before described (page 74), lies upon the interior surface of the pyriformis muscle ; it passes between the second and third sacral nerves, to leave the pelvic cavity by the great sacro-sciatic foramen, inferior to the pyriformis muscle. Dissection.—Section the common, the external and the internal iliac ar- teries ; also, the pudic, sciatic and obturator arteries (Plate 39); remove the portions of the arteries between the section lines. Cut the common and the external iliac veins (Plate 39) ; remove the common, external and internal iliac veins. In removing the portions of these vessels clear away the subjacent areolar tissue with care ; disturb as little as possible the bifurcation of the common iliac artery. Clean the branches of the posterior trunk of the inter- nal iliac artery; also, the sacra media artery.