GLUTEAL AND POSTEEIOR THIGH REGIONS. 175 46. Gemellus Inferior Muscle.—This muscle is attached, internally, to the exterior surface of the body of the ischium ; it continues, externally, between the obturator internus and the quadratus femoris muscles, to where it blends with the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. 47. Compound Tendon of the Obturator Internus, Gemel- lus Superior, and Gemellus Inferior Muscles.—These three mus- cles join, at their external ends, forming a compound tendon, which is attached to the anterior portion of the internal face of the trochanter major of the femur (Fig. 2, Plate 91). Dissection.—Section the quadratus femoris muscle (Plate 98), and reflect the portions of the muscle to the tuberosity of the ischium and the trochan- ter major of the femur, respectively; cut them away, as in Plate 99. Find the nerve and artery entering the anterior surface of the inner portion of the muscle ; cut the nerve close to the musc]^. Clear the posterior surface of the obturator externus muscle, and determine the internal circumflex artery and its branches. 48. Internal Circumflex Artery, Plates 98, 99, and 100.—This artery (vense comites), branch of the profunda femoris (pages 117 and 119 ; Plates 63, 64, and 65 ; and Fig. 2, Plate 66), pre- sents anterior to the quadratus femoris muscle, and the^ bifur- cates ; one branch is projected to the posterior region of the thigh between the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus muscles (page 173); the other is an articular branch, which takes an external, and superior, course to the hip-joint. 49. Obturator Externus muscle, Plates 95 to 100, inclusive ; Plates 59, 66, and 91.—The anterior face of this muscle has been described (page 121) and illustrated (Plates 64, 65, and 66); the posterior face of its external portion is shown, as it appears upon the removal of the quadratus femoris muscle (Plate 99). Internally, it comes from the anterior surface of the pelvis (Plate 59); externally, it passes, parallel with, and inte- riorly to the compound tendon of the obturator internus and the gemelli muscles, to its attachment, at the digital fossa on the internal face of the trochanter major of the femur. Dissection.—Section the compound tendon of the obturator internus, the gemellus inferior, and the gemellus superior muscles (Plate 99) ; reflect the muscles internally. In reflecting the gemellus inferior muscle note its nerve supply, Determine the bursa anterior to the inner portion of the obturator