POSTERIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, HAND, AND DIGITS. 293 arm. At the outer side of the forearm (Plate 166) it lies anteriorly to, and parallel with, the extensor carpi radialis longior muscle. 12. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior Muscle, Plates 121, 163 and 165 to 169, inclusive.—This muscle was before referred to (page 211), and illustrated (Plate 125) ; it has its proximal attachment to the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus (Plates 121 and 163), immediately proximal to the outer condyle of that bone; the belly of the muscle lies to the outer side, and parallel with, the extensor communis digitorum muscle, to about the middle of the forearm, where the latter diverges toward the inner side of the limb. Its tendon passes anteriorly to the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis muscles; it then crosses the carpus in a compartment of the posterior annular ligament, and passes to its distal attachment, at the dorsal surface of the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone. 13. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis Muscles, Plates 165 and 166.—Portions of these two muscles cross obliquely the outer side of the distal half of the forearm, emerging from between the extensor com- munis digitorum and the extensor carpi radialis longior mus- cles. 14. Radial Artery, Plates 165 to 169, inclusive.—This ar- tery (venae comites) presents in the outer third of the posterior surface of the carpus. It appears, posteriorly, from the an- terior of the tendons of the extensor primi internodii pollicis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscles (Plate 166); thence, it is continued to the proximal portion of the first inter- metacarpal space, where it passes to the palmar region, between the attachments of the dorsal portion of the first dorsal in- terosseous muscle. In this portion of its course it gives off branches, which will be described hereafter. Dissection.—Section (Plates 165 and 166) the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor communis digitorum, and extensor minimi digiti muscles ; reflect the proximal and distal portions of the muscles. In reflecting the. proximal portions of the two latter muscles, find and cut the branch to them of the posterior interosseous nerve, which enters their an-