UPPER EXTREMITY. 300 terior surfaces ; in reflecting their distal portions, cut their tendons out of the compartments of the posterior annular ligament. Slit open the compartment in the posterior annular ligament for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. Find the trunk of the posterior interosseous nerve, and trace the branches of the same to the several muscles they supply. Find the posterior interosseous artery and follow its branches to contiguous muscles. Clear the surface of the extensor carpi radialis brevior muscle, following it to its distal attachment. 15. Posterior Interosseous Nerve, Plate 167.—This nerve emerges, posteriorly, from its perforation of the supinator brevis muscle. It gives off branches to the following muscles : to the extensor carpi ulnaris ; to the extensor communis digi- torum and extensor minimi digiti, which was found and cut in the reflection of the proximal portions of the muscles ; to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; to the extensor indicis ; to the extensor primi internodii pollicis ; and to the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The trunk of the nerve has a distal course, successively, upon the supinator brevis, the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the extensor primi internodii pollicis muscles ; it then disappears anteriorly to the extensor secundi internodii pollicis muscle. 16. Posterior Interosseous Artery, Plates 167 and 168.— This artery (vense comites) appears, posteriorly, from between the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscles. It gives off branches to contiguous muscles. IT. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior Muscle, Plates 163, and 165 to 169, inclusive.—This muscle lies parallel with, and anteriorly to, the extensor carpi radialis longior muscle (page 299 ; Plate 167); its proximal attachment is, to the humerus, by the compound extensor attachment (page 297) ; it runs through the forearm upon the outer and posterior surfaces of the shaft of the radius ; in the distal half of the forearm its tendon appears at the inner side of, and in a plane anteriorly to, that of the extensor carpi radialis longior; it crosses the posterior surface of the carpus, with the latter tendon, in a compartment of the posterior annular ligament; its distal at- tachment is to the dorsal surface of the proximal end of the third metacarpal bone. Dissection.—Section (Plate 167) and cut away the several branches of the posterior interosseous nerve, also, the distal branches of the posterior interos-