276 TRUNK. 42. Deep Cervical Artery, Fig. 2, Plate 150.— This artery, branch of the first intercostal branch of the subclavian, ap- pears, posteriorly, from between the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras. It has a superior course, supplying contiguous muscles. 43. Cervicalis Princeps Artery.—This artery, branch of the occipital, is given off opposite the obliquus superior muscle. It passes inferiorly, upon the posterior surface of the obliquus inferior muscle. It distributes to contiguous muscles and anastomoses with the last-described artery. 44. Posterior Branches of I lie Vertebral Artery.—These branches appear, posteriorly, from between the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebras ; they distribute to contiguous muscles and anastomose with the two last-described arteries. 45. Posterior Divisions of the Cervical Spinal Nerves.— These nerves are eight in number; the posterior divisions of the secbnd, third, fourth, and fifth bifurcate into external (muscular) and internal (cutaneous) branches. The first or suboccipital nerve appears, posteriorly, between the obliquus inferior and the rectus capitis posticus major mus- cles, supplying them and also the obliquus superior and the rectus capitis posticus minor muscles. The second appears inferiorly to the obliquus inferior mus- cle, where its bifurcation takes place. Its internal (cutaneous) branch, the largest of the cervical nerves, becomes the great occipital nerve; it has an oblique course, internally and supe- riorly, upon the posterior surface of the obliquus inferior and the rectus capitis posticus major muscles, to where it perforates the complexus muscle (page 266 ; Plate 149). The third appears inferiorly to the second and bifurcates. Its internal (cutaneous) branch runs inferiorly and internally to, and accompanies, the great occipital nerve ; it also per- forates the complexus muscle (page 266 ; Plate 149). The fourth and fifth distribute their internal (cutaneous) branches by perforating the muscle planes of the neck (page 266 ; Plate 148). The sixth, seventh, and eighth distribute both their external and internal branches to the deep posterior muscles of the neck.