248 TRUNK. face of an external intercostal muscle, lodging the intercostal vessels and nerve, is covered by the continuation of the internal intercostal muscle plane by a plane of fibrous tissue—the pos- terior intercostal aponeurosis. Dissection.—Section (Plate 139) the oesophagus, and the right and left pneu- mogastric nerves, at their superior and inferior ends, and remove their included portions. Slit open the segment of the oesophagus and demonstrate its struct- ure. Cut the thoracic aorta superiorly to the aortic opening of the diaphragm, as in Fig. 1, Plate 140 ; also each of its intercostal branches, leaving the latter, in situ. Remove the thoracic aorta, being careful not to injure the azygos minor vein, and its tributary branches (the left intercostal veins), posteriorly to it. Expose the vena azygos minor and the left superior intercostal vein. Trace the left intercostal nerves, arteries, and veins. Display the dorsal portion of the left sympathetic nerve.' 36. Structure of tlie CEsophagus.—This canal will be found to have a mucous membrane lining, a submucous plane, a thick muscular coat, and a thin exterior fibrous coat. As slit open, its mucous membrane forms longitudinal folds. 37. Vena Azygos Minor and the Left Inferior Intercostal Veins, Fig. 1, Plate 140.—The vena azygos minor enters the thorax through the left crus of the diaphragm ; it runs, supe- riorly, for a variable distance along the left side of the bodies of the inferior dorsal vertebrae (in the Plate, to the ninth) ; it receives, in its thoracic course, the left inferior intercostal veins; and it crosses the anterior surface of the body of a dorsal vertebra (in the Plate, the ninth), to anastomose with the vena azygos major. 38. Left Superior Intercostal Vein and the Left Superior Intercostal Veins.—The left superior intercostal vein, larger than the right (page 245), has a variable length ; it has an infe- rior course, receiving the left superior intercostal veins; it anastomoses with the vena azygos minor, and by a branch, which crosses the anterior surface of the body of a dorsal vertebra, with the vena azygos major. 39. Left Intercostal Nerves, Arteries, and Veins.—These anatomical elements are lodged in the left intercostal spaces, adjacent to the vertebral column, in the same manner as are those of the right side (page 247 ; Plate 139).