FEMALE PEKLNETTM. 39 perineal fascia and the triangular ligament at the bis-ischiatic fascial junction, and also the tendinous centre of the perineum. 40. Deep Perineal Artery, Plate 17.—This artery (vena comes) is located interiorly to the ramus of the pubic arch and the plane of the deep transversus perinsei and constrictor urethrse muscles. 41. Deep Perineal IVerve.—This nerve accompanies the last-described artery. 42. Levator Fascia (Levator ani portion or anal fascia, and levator vaginge portion or posterior layer of the triangu- lar ligament).—-This plane of fascia is analogous to that of the male (see Male Perineum, page 22); it differs from it in that the fascia is perforated, on the median line, by the vagina, to the circumference of which it is attached. In the female, the meeting of its two portions, at the bis-ischiatic fascial junction, is located more posteriorly than in the male. _ DissECTiON.-Dissect off the levator fascia, and the tissues forming the bis- lschiatic fascial junction, from the muscle plane interiorly to it (Plate 18) tra- cing the fascia to the obturator fascia; section and cut away the deep perineal artery and nerve. Dissect away the tendinous centre of the perineum, so as to display the median-line raphe between the muscles interiorly to it. 43. Levator Ani et Vaginae Museles, Plate 18.—These mus- cles, right and left, are the analogues of the levator ani et prostatae muscles of the male (page 24, Plate 9). The ani por- tions or the middle and posterior parts of the muscles are the same as m the male (page 24). The vagina portions or the anterior parts of the muscles are attached to the interior sur- faces of the bodies of the ossa pubis ; they are projected pos- teriorly, being separated by a subpubic interval, which gives transit to the urethra and the vagina ; their fibres run parallel until they approach the interval between the vaginal and rec- tal outlets, when they curve, internally, to be attached to a hbrous, median line, raphe-the exterior of the raphe is at- tached to the tendinous centre of the perineum. The levator vaginae portions of the muscles support the posterior wall of the vagina, at its outlet, as the levator prostatas supports the prostate.