302 UPPER EXTREMITY. secundi internodii pollicis muscle it lias a distal course, to where it passes anteriorly to the deep fascia upon the posterior surface of the carpus. 21. Perforating Branches of the Anterior Interosseous Artery, Plates 168 and 169.—The anterior portion of this artery was described (page 235) and illustrated (Plate 130 and Fig. 1, Plate 134). It projects three perforating branches through the radio-ulnar interosseous ligament, which appear, posteriorly, between the ligament and the deep muscles of the posterior of the forearm, supplying the latter. The distal and largest branch has a distal course, accompanying the posterior interosseous nerve, to where it passes anteriorly to the deep fascia upon the posterior of the carpus. 22. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis Muscle, Plates 163, and 165 to 169, inclusive.—This muscle is attached, at its proxi- mal end, to the outer side of the proximal portion of the distal third of the shaft of the radius ; it has an oblique course pos- teriorly to the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior muscles. Its tendon runs in a compartment of the posterior annular ligament, with the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscle ; and is continued, upon the dorsal surface of the first metacarpal bone, to reach the distal attachment of the muscle, at the dorsal surface of the base of the phalanx of the first digit. 23. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis Muscle, Plates 121, 163, and 165 to 169, inclusive.—The distal and anterior portion of this muscle was described (page 212) and illustrated (Plates 125, 127, and 129 to 133, inclusive). Its proximal at- tachments are : to the outer side of the posterior surface of the middle third of the shaft of the ulna, proximal to that of the last-described muscle ; to the inner side of the posterior surface of the middle third of the shaft of the radius ; and to the pos- terior surface of the intervening portion of the radio-ulnar interosseous ligament. The muscle has a distal and oblique course to the outer side of, and posteriorly to, the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis brevior and longior muscles. Its tendon passes through a compartment of the posterior annular ligament, it then winds to the outer side of the anterior surface