380 HEAD AND NECK. PHARYNX. Dissection.—Section the superior laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and the hypoglossal nerve (as in Plate 201). Out away (as in Plate 201), from their superior ends : the right internal carotid artery; the right ascend- ing jmaryngeal artery; the portions of the external and common carotid ar- teries (Plate 200); the right pneumogastric, hypoglossal, and spinal accessory nerves. Clear away the pharyngeal plexus from the exterior of the middle constrictor muscle. Term§ of Relation.—The general terms (page 2); and the special terms exterior and interior—relatively to the cavities of the pharynx and larynx—lateral and postero-lateral—ap- plied to the pharynx—will be used in this dissection. Bone and Cartilage Areas for the Attachment of Muscles, Plates 190 and 199.—The pharynx is suspended, from the cra- nium and face, by the attachments of its muscles, etc., to the fol- lowing bones : the occipital, at the inferior surface of its basilar process ; the right and left temporal, at the inferior surfaces of their petrous portions and at their styloid processes ; the sphe- noid, at its hamular processes and internal pterygoid plates ; the inferior maxillary, at the internal surfaces of the external portions of the two halves of its body ; the liyoid, at its great cornua ; the thyroid cartilage of the larynx, at its exterior surface and posterior borders. Dissection.—Clear (Plate 200) the posterior surf aces of the following parts : the superior ends of the oesophagus, trachea, recurrent laryngeal nerves, and in- ferior laryngeal arteries from the inferior thyroid arteries ; .the right lobe of the thyroid body, with the ends of its right inferior and superior arteries ; the superior portions of the exterior of the right and left halves of the fibrous coat of the pharynx ; portions of the left tensor palati muscle; the left hamular process ; the superior end of the left stylo-pharyngeus muscle, to the point where it passes between the left middle constrictor and superior constrictor muscles ; the vertical portion of the left stylo-glossus muscle. Dissect off the fascial coat from the exterior of the right and left inferior constrictor muscles, and the superior portions of the right and left, middle and superior constrictor muscles. Section (Plate 200) the left inferior constrictor muscle, reflect it off, externally, and cut it away from its anterior attachment, to the thyroid car- tilage of the larynx (Plate 190) ; repeat the same with the left middle con- strictor muscle—cut it away from the great cornu of the hyoid bone (Plate 190). Expose (Plate 200) the posterior surface of the left stylo-pharyngeus and supe- rior constrictor muscles ; also, the inferior of the left half of the fibrous coat