254 TRUNK. right and left pneumogastric nerves ; also, by the right and left superior dorsal ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system. The anterior is spread upon the anterior surfaces of the bifur- cation of the trachea and the roots of the lungs ; the posterior upon the posterior surfaces of the same. (These plexuses are not illustrated, as they require to be dissected upon specially prepared organs, as special dissections.) Nerves from these plexuses may be followed along the bronchi, to where they enter the lungs, right and left. ^1 15. Vena Cava Superior and Vena Azygos Major.— The stump of the vena cava superior is lodged anteriorly to the trachea. As brought into view, to the right of the trachea, the vena azygos major presents, hanging from the posterior face of the cava ; the trunk of this azygos vein is situated pos- teriorly to the root of the right lung, and loops superiorly to the latter and anteriorly to reach the cava. Dissection.—Expose the right pulmonary artery, interiorly to the bifurca- tion of the trachea, and in a plane anteriorly to the same ; display the left pulmonary artery, projected to the left, in a plane anteriorly to the left bron- chus and trace it to where it branches and enters the left lung ; find the duc- tus arteriosus between the left pulmonary artery and the concavity of the arch of the aorta. 16. Right Pulmonary Artery.—This artery is projected to the right, from the bifurcation of the common pulmonary artery! It lies between the bifurcation of the trachea and the left auricle of the heart, in a plane anteriorly to the bronchi and pulmonary veins. It bifurcates before entering the right lung. 17. Left Pulmonary Artery.—This artery is projected to the left from the bifurcation of the common pulmonary artery, superiorly to, and in a plane anteriorly to, the left bronchus ; it bifurcates before entering the left lung. 18. Ductus Arteriosus.—This obliterated vessel of foetal life passes, as a fibrous cord, superiorly and to the left, from the superior of the left pulmonary artery-close to the origin oi the latter, from the bifurcation of the common pulmonary artery-to the inferior of the transverse portion of the arch oi ' the aorta.