SCALP. 321 orbicularis palpebrarum, the pyramidalis nasi, and the corruga- tor supercilii muscles. The middle or aponeurotic (fibrous) portion is attached: posteriorly, to the superior carved line of the occipital bone, and to the exterior of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone ; it spreads anteriorly over the vertex area of the head to the frontal portion of the muscle. 17. Superficial Temporal Fa§cia.—This is a layer of fascia located interiorly to the subcutaneous plane of the lateral area of the scalp and the attollens and attrahens aurem muscles. It is continued, inferiorly, from the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis muscle to the superior border of the zygomatic arch (zygoma of the temporal bone and the malar bone). 18. Auricular Muscles.—These muscles—three in number —lie exteriorly to the superficial temporal fascia. The su- perior or attollens aurem is attached : superiorly, to the apo- neurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle ; inferiorly, to the in- ternal face of the superior portion of the pinna of the ear. The anterior or attrahens aurem passes from the superficial tem- poral fascia, anteriorly to the ear, to the anterior of the helix of the ear. The posterior or retrahens aurem bridges from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone to the internal face of the pinna of the ear. Dissection.—Section the vessels and nerves of the scalp (Plate 177). Cut the occipito-frontalis, anteriorly and posteriorly, as in Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 178, and dissect away the muscle. Reflect, inferiorly, the superficial temporal fas- cia with the auricular muscles (attollens and attrahens), and cut them away. Display the deep temporal fascia, and then cut its inferior portion away, as in Fig. 1, Plate 178. Note the splitting of its inferior portion, superiorly, to its zygomatic-arch attachment. Expose the temporal muscle. 19. Deep Temporal Fascia, Fig. 1, Plate 178.—This thick layer of fascia is attached, circumferentially, to the temporal ridge—on the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones—and to the superior border of the zygomatic arch. Its inferior portion splits into two layers, between which adipose tissue is lodged. 20. Temporal Muscle.—This muscle is attached to the lateral area of the cranium, within the boundaries of the tem- poral ridge and the superior border of the zygomatic arch ; con- verging to a tendinous portion, it passes internally to the zygo- 21