71 ABDOMINAL YISCEEA IN SITU. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the right and left suprarenal capsules. 57. Suprarenal Capsules.—These organs are lodged upon the surfaces of the right and left cms of the diaphragm, re- spectively. They are triangular in shape, their apices tilted to the median line, their bases capping the superior convex I ends of the kidneys. 58. Superior Mesenteric Artery.—This, like the cceliac axis, is a median-line branch of the abdominal aorta ; it distri- butes as before described (page 60). Dissection.—Clear the surface of the vena cava from its origin, inferiorly, to its point of section, superior to the renal veins. Note the veins, that it re- ceives in its course; follow the renal veins from the kidneys. 59. Vena Cava Inferior.—This venous trunk lies to the right of the vertebral column ; it is formed by the junction of the right and left common iliac veins, at the right of the fifth lumbar vertebra; it receives the sacra media, the lumbar, the right spermatic or the right ovarian, the renal, the suprarenal, the phrenic and the hepatic veins. 60. Renal Veins.—These vessels pass from the kidney, right and left, to the vena cava; the left, longer than the right, receives the left spermatic or the left ovarian vein. Dissection.—Hook the renal veins anteriorly, and trace the renal arteries to their distribution. Dissect the kidneys free of remaining fat. 61. Renal Arteries.—These arteries pass, right and left, from the aorta to the kidneys, respectively ; their short trunks break up into branches, which enter the hilus of the organ; one of the superior branches of each artery distributes a branch to the suprarenal capsule of the side. 62. Kidneys.—These organs are located on either side of the vertebral column. The inferior portion of a kidney lies upon the superior half of a quadratus lumborum muscle; its superior convex end inclines to the vertebral column, and rests upon the interior of the ligamentum arcuatum externum (Plate 43) and the diaphragm above it; where it lies upon the latter muscle, it is located opposite the twelfth rib and the eleventh intercostal muscle and rib—the right kidney rises to the infe-