ABDOMINAL PAEIETES. 47 12. Cutaneous Serves of the Abdominal Parietes, Plate 23. —These nerves, from the inferior intercostal nerves, per- forate the superficial fascia. They become subcutaneous at the following points: laterally, at the rib attachments of the obliquus externus muscle; anteriorly, toward the median line. The lateral nerves bifurcate into posterior and anterior branches. The anterior present two rows of emergence: the external divide as do the lateral; the internal do not divide. 13. Superficial Fascia.—This plane is a very thin layer of fi- brous tissue upon the exterior of the obliquus externus muscle ; it is continued from the thoracic parietes, superiorly ; it is at- tached, inferiorly, to the crest of the ilium, Poupart's ligament and the body of the os pubis. In the inguinal region it is strengthened by loops of fibrous tissue, with their convexi- ties directed toward the pubes, the arciform or intercolumnar fibres. Dissection.—Dissect off the superficial fascia from the obliquus externus muscle, being careful to preserve the portion of it that springs from the pil- lars of the opening in the aponeurosis of the muscle, to invest the spermatic cord. Trim away the inguinal flaps of subcutaneous tissue along the line of the groin. 14. Fibrous Tissue Markings of the Abdominal Parietes, Plate 24.—These markings are : the linea alba, at the median line, from the symphysis pubis to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum—upon this line is the umbilicus ; the linese semilu- nars, curving, superiorly, from opposite the spines of the ossa pubis to the anterior extremities of the cartilages of the tenth ribs ; the linese transversa^ cross between the linea alba and the linese semilunares, at, and superior to, the umbilicus. 15. Obliquus Externus Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 21 and Plate 24. —This forms the exterior muscle plane of the anterolateral area of the abdominal parietes. Superiorly, it is attached to the exterior surfaces of the lateral area of the seven or six in- ferior ribs ; the superior four or five attachments interdigitate with digitations of the serratus magnus muscle; the inferior three attachments interdigitate with digitations of the latis- simus dorsi muscle. From the two inferior ribs the muscle fibres pass, inferiorly, to the crest of the ilium ; from its supe- rior four or five rib attachments the fibres pass inferiorly and