236 LOWER EXTREMITY. tissue of the webbing between the digits ; they have a distal course in the subcutaneous tissue of the lateral digital sur- faces, upon the dorsal surface of the last-described nerves. 13 Digital Sheath of the Flexor Tendons, Plate 76 —A fibrous sheath invests the flexor tendons, upon the plantar sur- face of each digit; it is attached to the lateral borders of the phalanx and the phalangine, and to the plantar surface of the phalangette of the digit. Its longitudinal fibres are continued from the plantar fascia. Opposite the. flexures of the joints its texture is so modified as to allow flexion and extension ol the digit. The plantar collateral digital vessels and nerves lie superficial to it. DissECTioN.-Make a transverse incision through the middle portion of the plantar fascia (Plate 76), and reflect its distal portion with the superficial transverse ligament; preserve the digital nerves and the branches of the anas- tomotic artery, from the internal plantar artery, between the slips of the fascia. Reflect its proximal portion, and note the existence of an intermuscular septum at its outer and another at its inner limit ; also, that it is attached to the sub- jacent flexor brevis digitorum muscle, from which it should not be removed Plate 77). Trace the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve ; also their muscle branches. Follow the distribution of the anastomotic branch of the internal plantar artery. Slit up the sheaths of the flexor tendons and clear the plantar plane of the flexor brevis digitorum muscle. 14. Digital Branches of the Internal Plantar Nerve, Plate 77 —The internal plantar nerve emerges at the distal angle of divergence of the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor pol- licis muscles. The first digital nerve is given off from its inner side • it was before described in the distal part of its course (pao-e 134). The second and third come off as one trunk, which bifurcates into the two nerves. The fourth is the terminal por- tion of the internal plantar nerve. The second, third, and fourth digital nerves have a distal course to where they bifur- cate, respectively, into the plantar collateral digital nerves ol the first and second, second and third, and third and fourth digits. 15. Nerves to the Flexor Brevis Pollieis Muscle—The first digital nerve, near its proximal end, supplies a branch to the inner head of this muscle ; the outer head receives a branch from the internal plantar nerve, before the giving off of the second and third digital nerves.