64 TRUNK. mine its superior and inferior curvatures : the former is a con- cavity directed superiorly and to the right; the latter is a con- vexity directed inferiorly and to the left. It will be remembered, that its anterior surface is covered by a layer of peritoneum, con- tributed by the greater peritoneum, while its posterior surface has a peritoneal investiture, furnished by the lesser peritoneum. At its fundus the spleen is adapted to the right concave sur- face of the latter; the peritoneum bridges between the two organs—the gastro-splenic omentum—and invests the free convex surface of the spleen. The peritoneal surface invest- ments of, and the apposition of the spleen to, the stomach—de- termine the absence of serous membrane at the curvatures and fundus of the organ. It is at these points, that vessels and nerves enter and leave the viscus : along the lesser curvature is the anastomosing arterial loop of the gastric and pyloric ar- teries ; along the greater curvature is the circuit of the anas- tomosing gastro-epiploica dextra and sinistra arteries ; the vasa brevia, branches of the splenic artery, are at the fundus. Along this circumferential arterial distribution arteries and nerves enter the walls of the organ ; veins and lymphatics leave them. 32. Duodenum This, the first portion of the small intes- tine, is continued from the pylorus of the stomach. It is some- what the shape of a fish-hook, with its convexity directed to the right and inferiorly, its concavity open superiorly and to the left. The first or ascending portion of the duodenum- forming the short barbed end of the hook—is directed from the pylorus of the stomach to the right, and is inclined superiorly and posteriorly (in Plates it will be observed to have sagged inferiorly). The second or descending portion—forming the curve of the hook—has a direction obliquely from above down- wards and to the left. The third, transverse or oblique portion —forming the shank of the hook—rises obliquely from right to left, crossing the median line just above the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta ; at the left of the vertebral column, it is con- tinued by the jejunum of the small intestine. Its most de- pendent point lies upon the anterior surface of the inferior half of the quadratus lumborum muscle, a little above the posterior extremity of the crest of the right ilium. In situ, the first portion of the duodenum impinges upon the liver and the