UPPER EXTREMITY. 210 11. Palmar Fascia.—This is formed by the fascia con- tinued from the forearm, which is specially thickened for the needs of the palm. When present, the palmaris longus tendon contributes to it. The middle or 'palmar fossa portion com- mences at the proximal limit of the palmar fossa ; it widens as it advances to the distal third of the metacarpus. At its distal limit it divides into four slips : their central fibres are projected to the palmar surfaces of the digital sheaths of the flexor ten- dons, on the digits, second to fifth, inclusive ; their lateral fibres pass to the transverse metacarpal ligament and the lateral sur- faces of the heads of the metacarpal bones, second to fifth, in- clusive. Transverse fibres bridge across the distal divisions of the palmar fossa portion of the palmar fascia—the superficial transverse ligament of the fingers. The outer or pollex emi- nence portion of the fascia invests the eminence, and extends around the pollex side of the metacarpal region to its dorsal surface. The inner or minim eminence portion occupies that eminence, with the palmaris brevis muscle on its palmar sur- face ; it winds to the dorsal surface of the metacarpal region, over its minim side. 12. Palmar Digital Arteries.—These arteries (vense comites), second to sixth, inclusive, appear at the distal limit of the palm. The third, the fourth, and the fifth are projected be- tween the distal divisions of the palmar fossa portion of the palmar fascia, from the dorsal surface of the same, into the webbing between the digits, second to fifth, inclusive ; they there bifurcate into the palmar collateral digital arteries, fourth to ninth, inclusive ; before bifurcation, they each receive an interosseous artery, from the deep palmar arch. The second digital (radialis indicis) appears opposite the pollex side of the distal end of the second metacarpal bone, where it is con- tinued, as the third palmar collateral digital artery, to the outer lateral digital surface of the second digit. The sixth digital is projected along the minim side of the palm, to be continued, as the tenth palmar collateral digital artery, to the inner lateral digital surface of the fifth digit. 13. Palmar Collateral Digital Xerves.—These nerves pass from the dorsal surface, of the palmar fossa portion, of the palmar fascia ; they join the palmar collateral digital arteries, entering the lateral digital surfaces.