GLUTEAL AND POSTEEIOE THIGH EEGIONS. 173 cle. Follow the ramifications of the deep branches of the gluteal artery and the superior gluteal nerve, from their emergence into the gluteal region to their distribution. Clear the surface of the gluteus minimus muscle. 3?. Internal Circumflex Artery, Plate 98.—The terminal portion of this artery (vensG comites) enters the inner side of the proximal portion of the posterior region of the thigh, be- tween the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus muscles. 38. »eep Branches of the Gluteal Artery, Plate 99.—This artery (vense comites) appears in the gluteal region superior to the internal portion of the pyriformis muscle, between it and the gluteus minimus muscle ; it presents a superior and an inferior portion, which ramify between and supply the gluteus medius, and gluteus minimus muscles; the inferior portion also supplies the tensor vaginse femoris muscle. 39. Superior Gluteal Nerve.—This nerve appears at the superior border of the pyriformis muscle ; between it and the gluteus minimus muscle. Its emergence is external to that of the last-described artery. It divides into a superior and an inferior portion ; they ramify between the gluteus medius and minimus muscles, and supply the same. The inferior portion also supplies the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. 40. Gluteus minimus Muscle, Plates 59, 91, 99, and 100.— This muscle is located upon the exterior surface of the ilial por- tion of the os innominatum, to which it is attached between the middle and the inferior curved lines of that bone (Fig. 1, Plate 91); inferiorly, it is attached to the anterior border of the trochanter major of the femur (Plate 59). Its internal border overlaps the superior border of the pyriformis muscle ; its an- tero-external border is covered by the tensor vaginae femoris muscle (Plate 61); on the removal of the latter it appears at the outer side of the proximal portion of the anterior surface of the thigh (Plates 62 to 65, inclusive ; and Fig. 2, Plate 66). Dissection.—Expose the internal pudic vessels and nerve, also the nerve to the obturator internus and the gemellus superior muscles, in the interval be- tween the internal ends of the pyriformis muscle and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Clear the surfaces of the gemellus superior, the obturator internus, and the gemellus inferior muscles ; expose the proximal portion of the great sciatic nerve.