203 ANTERIOR OF THORAX, AXILLA, AXD ARM. Dissection.—Section the biceps muscle (Plate 116) and reflect its portions as in Plate 118; find the vessels and nerves entering its deep surface; trace them to their parent trunks and cut them short. Clear the surface of the brachialis anticus muscle; trace the musculo-cutaneous nerve and its branches. 54. Brachialis Anticus Muscle, Plates 113, 116, and 118. —This muscle lies between the biceps muscle and the distal half of the humerus. Its proximal attachment is to the an- terior of the distal half of the shaft of the humerus ; its distal attachment is to the anterior of the proximal end of the shaft of the ulna. 55. Musculocutaneous Nerve, Plates 116 to 119, inclusive. —This nerve comes out from the posterior surface of, and at the inferior border of, the pectoralis minor muscle, superiorly, and externally, to the axillary artery and the outer leg of the median nerve. It sends a branch to the cpraco-brachialis mus- cle, then passes through the muscle, to emerge from the an- terior of its distal half. It is continued through the arm between the biceps and the brachialis anticus muscles, entering between them at the inner side of the biceps ; it appears from the posterior surface of the distal portion of the biceps muscle, at its outer side. In its course between the muscles (Plate 118) it gives them their nerve supply. From the arm, at the outer half of its distal end, it is continued into the subcutaneous plane of the forearm. Dissection.—Eeplace the biceps muscle, in situ, and sew its cut ends to- gether. Hook the median nerve to the outer side, and the basilic vein to the inner side (Plate 118) ; expose the external portion of the axillary artery and the brachial artery, with the venae comites of the latter. 56. Axillary Artery, Plates 117, 118, and 119.—The external portion of this artery is continued from the posterior surface of, and at the inferior and external border of, the pectoralis minor muscle, to its terminus at the distal border of the humeral end of the teres major muscle : anteriorly, is the median nerve and the fork of its legs; externally, the musculo-cutaneous nerve; inferiorly, the ulnar, the internal cutaneous, and the small internal cutaneous nerves, and the axillary vein. 57. Brachial Artery, Plates 117 and 118.—This artery (venae comites), before referred to (page 198), is continued from the