258 TRUNK. tissue, tracing and preserving the portions of, and the branches of, the coronary arteries. Follow the right coronary artery to its origin from the aorta and display its branches. Expose the anterior surface of the cardiac ends of the aorta, the pulmonary artery, the vena cava superior, and the vena cava inferior. (The last three vessels may be stuffed with oakum or cotton.) 2. Exterior of the Right Heart, Fig. 1, Plate 144.—This heart surface is contributed by the anterior and the right anterolateral surfaces of the organ when in situ (Plate 141). It presents : the right auriculo-ventricular and the right and left interventricular furrows; the right auricle, with its con- verging cavre—superior and inferior ; the right ventricle and its projected common pulmonary artery ; the right coronary artery and a branch of the left coronary artery. 3. Right Auriculo-ventricular and Right and Left Inter- ventricular Furrows.—The right auriculo-ventricular furrow is between the right auricle and ventricle, lodging the trunk of j the right coronary artery. The right and left interventricular furrows are at either side of the right ventricle, separating it from the left ventricle ; they curve to, and meet at, the apex of the heart; they lodge, respectively, terminal branches of the right and left coronary arteries. 4. Right Auricle—This portion of the heart is located | superiorly to, and obliquely upon, the right half of the base of the right ventricle. It has two portions: a cavity, to the j right, and an appendix, to the left, In its collapsed condition it has about one-fourth of the area of the right ventricle. Its shape is somewhat triangular: its base to the right; its apex (the appendix) to the left; its inferior border along the right auriculo-ventricular furrow ; its superior face free. 5. Vena Cava Superior and Vena Cava Inferior.—The su- perior enters the superior wall of the right auricle ; the inferior opens into the right auricle at its right wall or base.- 6. Right Ventricle.—The area of this cavity of the heart, as undistended, is about four times that of the empty right au- ricle ; it is bounded by the right auriculo-ventricular and the j right and left interventricular furrows ; its left superior anghJ is free; the right auricle surmounts, obliquely, the right half i