348 HEAD AND KECK. 1. Temporal muscle, Plate 181; Fig. 2, Plate 184.—The superior portion of this muscle was before described (page 321) and illustrated (Plate 178). Its inferior portion is lodged inter- nally to the zygomatic arch, and is attached to the coronoid process of the inferior maxillary bone (Fig. 2, Plate 184). Dissection.—Preserving (Fig. 2, Plate 184), the stumps of the deep tem- poral arteries and nerves, of the masseteric artery and nerve, and of the buccal nerve, cut away the inferior portion of the temporal muscle from the coro- noid process of the inferior maxillary bone. Saw the inferior maxillary bone along lines similar to those shown in Fig. 2, Plate 184—at the neck of the condyloid process, and through the ramus inferiorly to the level of Stenson's duct. (Saw partly through the bone with a small saw, and complete the sec- tion with bone forceps). Dissect away the included piece of bone ; also, the posterior part of the parotid gland. Out away the skin posteriorly to the ra- mus of the inferior maxillary bone (Plate 187), and display: portions of the digastric (posterior belly) and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and the superior part of the external carotid artery. Trace (Plate 187) the internal maxillary artery from its origin, internally ; find its several branches. Follow (Plate 187) the temporal nerves inferiorly, and buccal and masseteric nerves superiorly, to the points where they perforate or pass posteriorly to the external pterygoid muscle. Expose (Plate 187) the following parts : the external surface of the temporo-maxillary articulation ; the anterior surface of the external pterygoid muscle ; portions of the gustatory, inferior dental, and mylohyoid nerves ; and part of the external surface of the internal pterygoid muscle. 2. Internal Maxillary Artery, Plates 187 and 188.—This ar- tery (vense comites), one of the branches of bifurcation of the external carotid artery, passes between the condyloid process of the inferior maxillary bone, anteriorly, and the internal lateral ligament, posteriorly, to enter the deep region of the face. It has an anterior and internal course, externally to the external pterygoid muscle, to the point where it enters the spheno-palatine fossa (Plate 188). 3. Branches of the Internal Maxillary Artery, — The branches of this artery present in order, from its origin inter- nally, as follows : the deep auricular, the tympanic, the mid- dle meningeal, and the small meningeal have a superior course—the first to the external ear, the second to the middle ear, the third and fourth to the interior of the cranium ; the infe- rior dental is projected inferiorly, to enter the inferior dental foramen of the inferior maxillary bone ; the anterior deep temporal and the posterior deep temporal (page 322; Fig. 2,