GLUTEAL AND POSTEKIOR THIGH EEGIONS. 169 tached to the tuberosity of the ischium, in common with the semitendinosus muscle, taking an oblique course therefrom toward the outer side of the knee; the short head lies ante- riorly to the long head. 23. Semitendinosus Muscle.—The proximal end of this mus- cle is fused, for about three or four inches, with the last-de- scribed muscle ; the two muscles having a common attachment to the postero-inferior border of the tuberosity of the ischium. The muscle takes its course parallel with, and to the inner side of, the long head of the biceps. At about the distal third of the thigh its tendon commences, which diverges from the biceps muscle and passes to the inner side of the knee ; it may be traced to its attachment to the inner tuberosity of the tibia (Fig. 1, Plate 67). Dissection.—Flex the leg slightly, and steady it in that position; hook the long head of the biceps muscle to the outer side, and the semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles to the inner side. Trace the great sciatic nerve through the gluteal region and the posterior region of the thigh; dissect out the muscle branches of the nerve and its terminal bifurcation. 24. Oreat Sciatic Nerve, Plates 95 to 97, inclusive.—This nerve, the largest in the body, is derived from the sacral plexus ; it is projected into the gluteal region, through the great sacro- sciatic foramen, appearing from the anterior of the inferior border of the pyriformis muscle, a little external to the emer- gence of the inferior gluteal and the small sciatic nerves. In the gluteal region it is lodged upon the posterior.surface of the gemellus superior, the obturator internus, the gemellus infe- rior, and the quadratus femoris muscles ; on the latter muscle it lies between the ischium of the os innominatum and the trochanter major of the femur—nearest the former. In the pos- terior region of the thigh it has a distal course, anterior to the superficial muscles (biceps, semitendinosus, and semimem- branosus) and the muscle floor of the posterior region of the thigh—the adductor magnus. At a point to the ptoximal side | of the popliteal space, the nerve bifurcates into the external [and the internal popliteal nerves, which have been described (page 155) and illustrated (Plates 85 and 86). 25. Nerves to the Biceps Muscle, Plates 96 and 97.—Two branches are given off from the great sciatic nerve to the heads