HEAD AND NECK. 364 It is located in a plane posteriorly to the last-described mus- cle. It is attached, superiorly, to the cricoid cartilage of the larynx and passes anteriorly to the thyroid body, trachea, and large vessels at the inferior of the mid-region of the neck; thence, it is continued posteriorly to the superior portion of the sternum, into the interior of the thorax. Dissection.—Dissect away (Plate 195) the fascial slip of the left omo-hyoid muscle, and expose, posteriorly to it, portions of : the internal jugular vein; the cervical portion of the thoracic or left lymphatic duct; the pneumogastric nerve ; and the first portion of the subclavian artery. Section (Plate 193), and reflect inferiorly, the anterior belly of the left digastric muscle ; section (Plate ] 93) the fascial loop of the left digastric muscle and the left stylo-hyoid muscle from their hyoid attachments ; reflect the latter muscle and the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, posteriorly, and cut them away, as shown on the left side of Plate 195. Section the left mylo-hyoid muscle (Plate 193) close to the median-line raphe and from the hyoid bone ; reflect it superiorly and cut it away inferiorly to, and parallel with, the body of the inferior maxillary bone (Plate 195). Cut away (Plate 195) a portion of the left submaxillary gland ; trace the duct of the gland, internally and anteriorly. Find portions of the gustatory nerve and stylo-glossus muscle parallel with, and superiorly to, the duct. Follow the left hypoglossal nerve, internally and anteriorly. Clear the surfaces of the left genio-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles. 31. Duct of the Submaxillary Gland, Plates 105 and 197. —This duct (Wharton's) runs internally between the mylo- hyoid muscle, exteriorly, and the hyo-glossus muscle interiorly. It disappears into the floor of the buccal cavity, at the internal border of the anterior portion of the hyo-glossus muscle. 32. Gustatory IVerve and Stylo-glossus Muscle.—Portions of this nerve and muscle present anteriorly to, and parallel with, the last-described duct. 33. Hypoglossal Nerve, Plates 192 to 196, inclusive.—This nerve emerges, superiorly, at the inferior border, and from the internal surface, of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle (Plates 192 to 195, inclusive) ; thence it runs inferiorly, internally to the internal jugular vein, posteriorly to the ex- ternal jugular vein (Plate 192), and anteriorly to the internal carotid artery (Plates 192, 194, and 196) ; it makes an abrupt curve internally, inferiorly to the origin of the occipital artery from the external carotid artery (Plates 192 to 196, inclusive). Continuing internally, it crosses the external carotid artery, to the external surface of the posterior-inferior angle of the hyo-