404 HEAD AND NECK. 7. Spheno-palatine Foramen, Plate 209.—This foramen, of a nasal cavity, is located in the external wall of a nasal cavity, posteriorly to the posterior end of an inferior turbinate process of the ethmoid bone. 8. Spheno-palatine Artery: Plate 209 ; Fig. 1, Plate 210. —This artery (venae comites) enters a nasal cavity by the spheno- palatine foramen. It gives off an internal and an external branch : the internal branch or naso-palatine artery (Plate 209) has an anterior and inferior course in the submucous plane of the nasal septum, to the incisor foramen of the anterior pala- tine canal, through which it passes to the buccal surface of the hard palate ; the external branch is projected inferiorly, sending off anterior branches into the submucous plane upon the inferior turbinate process of the ethmoid bone, the turbi- nate bone, and the walls of the middle and inferior meatuses. 9. Naso-palatine Nerve, Plate 209.—This nerve, of a nasal cavity, enters by the spheno-palatine foramen. It passes to the submucous plane of the nasal septum, where it accom- panies the above-described naso-palatine artery. 10. Superior Nasal Nerves : Plate 209 ; Fig. 1, Plate 210. —These nerves, of a nasal cavity, enter with the last-de- scribed nerve. They have an anterior and a superior course, ramifying in the submucous plane upon the turbinated pro- cesses of the ethmoid bone, and in the same plane of a superior meatus. 11. Inferior Nasal Nerve.—This nerve enters a nasal cavity posteriorly to the turbinate bone ; it runs anteriorly, sending branches into the submucous plane upon the turbinate bone, and into the same plane of a middle and an inferior meatus. 12. Anterior Ethmoidal Artery.—This artery (venae comi- tes), branch of the ophthalmic artery (page 343 ; Plate 186), en- ters at the superior wall of a nasal cavity, in company with the nasal nerve (page 342 ; Plate 186). It bifurcates into an internal and an external branch : the internal branch is projected, an- teriorly and inferiorly, into the submucous plane of the lateral face of the nasal septum ; the external branch runs in the sub- mucous plane of the antero-lateral wall of a nasal cavity.