g INTRODUCTION. muscle ; their entrance will usually be found at the protected surfaces of the muscle. DissECTioN.-In cleaning a muscle, never grasp it with the forceps, but let the tissue, to be removed from the muscle, be held off; the scalpel should be guided parallel with the muscle fibres (Fig. 6, Plate 2); the handle of the scal- pel and the head of the forceps are excellent instruments to strip the sides of a muscle free from contiguous parts ; but, in so doing, care must be taken not to break aff nerves and vessels at their points of penetration into the muscle. In unpacking or separating muscles, lying in different planes or in contiguity in the same plane, they cannot be regarded as cleaned, until all their surfaces are freed of fibrous tissue. Bur^: Fig. 1, Plate 4; Plate 60.—A bursa is a fibrous- tissue bag, containing fluid, which is lodged upon a bony promi- nence, upon which skin or muscle plays ; its object is to obviate undue irritation of the skin or muscle by pressure. The sub- cutaneous bursa over the patella (Plate 60), and the submus- cular bursa of the gluteus maximus and obturator mternus (Fig. 1, Plate 4) are examples. Dissection. —After recognition, a bursa may be cut away and its relations appreciated. Sheath* of Tendon,, Fig. 2, Plate 4.-Sheaths invest the long tendons of the limbs, for the isolation of the same and the play of the tendons is facilitated by the sheaths being lined by serous membrane, which secretes synovia upon them to lubricate their surfaces. Examples of the synovial sheaths are well seen at the wrist and palm. DisSEcnoK.-In the appreciation of the synovial sheaths of tendons, they should be opened at a given point and a probe inserted into them, along the endon in both directions, to determine the extent of then: investiture. After recognition, they shonld be stripped from the tendons with the cnrved scissors or scalpel. Deep Faseite.—The deep fascise are specially thick septa or fasciee, prolonged between the anatomical elements of a region, which form compartments for the grouping of muscles or the isolation of contiguous parts. They are also found lining the interior of cavities. Dissection. —Their extent and points of attachment should be appreciated after which, if they interfere with subsequent dissection, they should be cut away.