ANTEEIOR OF THORAX, AXILLA, AND ARM. 197 19. Axilla and its Boundaries.—The axilla is a pyramidal space, inferiorly to the shoulder-joint; its anterior wall is formed by the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor muscles ; its posterior wall is contributed to by a portion of the latissi- mus dorsi, the teres major, and the subscapulars muscles. Its internal wall is the lateral thoracic parietes, covered by the serratus magnus muscle. Superiorly, it is bounded by the coraco-brachialis and the biceps (short head) muscles, the scapulo-humeral joint, and the deltoid muscle. The folds of the axilla bound its outlet; the anterior is formed by the infe- rior border of the pectoralis major muscle ; the posterior is con- tributed to by the latissimus dorsi and the teres major muscles. Between these folds bridges the axillary fascia, through which ! lateral cutaneous branches of intercostal nerves pass. Within the axilla are lodged the axillary artery and vein with their branch- es; also the axillary portion of the brachial plexus of nerves. Dissection.—Section the cephalic vein (Plate 115) and reflect it upon the forearm. Eemove the fascia from the anterior portion of the deltoid muscle ; trace into the shoulder the proximal end of the cephalic vein ; find the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. 20. Deltoid Musele, Plates 113, and 116 to 120, inclusive.— The anterior or clavicular portion of this muscle covers the anterior and outer face of the shoulder-joint; its fibres extend from the external half of the anteroinferior border of the clav- icle to the outer side of the shaft of the humerus, at about the junction of its proximal and middle thirds. 21. Cephalic Vein, Plate 116.—This vein continues its prox- imal course, from the point where it perforates the fascia (Plate 115), in the intermuscular space between the pectoralis major and the deltoid muscles. 22. Humeral Branch of the Acromio-Thoracie Artery, Plates 116 and 117.—This artery (vena comes) lias a distal course, in company with the proximal end of the cephalic vein. Dissection.—Eemove the fascia from the arm, thereby exposing the ante- 1 rior surfaces of portions of the biceps, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior muscles. 23. Bieeps Musele, Plate 116.—This muscle is continued into the arm from the posterior of the pectoralis major muscle;