POSTEKIOE OF SHOULDER AKD ARM. 289 3. Cutaneous Branch of Circumflex Nerve, Plate 159.— This nerve appears at the distal halt' of the posterior border of the deltoid muscle ; from the internal surface of the muscle. It distributes to the distal portion of the deltoid region and to the proximal portion of the arm. It is accompanied by a small branch from the posterior circumflex artery. 4. Intercosto-humeral IVerve.—This nerve emerges, poste- riorly, from the axilla, along the inner side of the proximal por- tion of the arm ; its branches have a distal course along the inner border of the arm. 5. Superior and Inferior External Cutaneous Brandies of the Musculo-spiral Nerve.—These nerves perforate the fascia at the outer side of the distal portion of the arm, and are con- tinued into the forearm. 6. Fascia.—A layer of fascia covers the muscles of the pos- terior of the arm, which is continued to the anterior of the arm and to the posterior of the forearm. Dissection.—Section the nerves in the subcutaneous plane (Plate 159). Clear the fascia from the subjacent muscles, cutting out the nerves that per- forate ifc. 7. Deltoid Muscle, Plate 113 ; Fig. 1, Plate 158 ; and Plate 160.—This triangular, coarse-fibred muscle caps the shoulder. Its base or proximal end conforms to the bony contour of the shoulder by its attachments: anteriorly, to the outer third of the anteroinferior border of the clavicle (Plate 113); exter- nally, to the border of the acromion process of the scapula ; and, posteriorly, to the inferior half of the external two-thirds of the posterior face of the spine of the scapula (Fig. 1, Plate 158). Its apex or distal end is attached to a rough, triangular, area at the antero-external face, of about the middle, of the shaft of the humerus (Plate 113). 8. Triceps Muscle, Plate 113 ; Fig. 1, Plate 158 ; and Plates 160, 161, and 162.—This muscle, as its name implies, has three heads: a long head from the superior portion of the external border of the scapula (Plates 113 and 162) ; an outer head, along the outer side of the long head (Plates 160, 161, and 162), is attached to the outer side of the shaft of the humerus, be-