DEEP REGION OF THE FACE. 347 ficiency in the base of the cranium, which is bounded by the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, externally, the basilar process of the occipital bone, posteriorly and inter- nally, and the root of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, anteriorly. At this point it is joined by the large deep petrosal nerve from the sympathetic nerve upon the internal carotid artery ; the two form the Vidian nerve, which passes, anteriorly, by the Vidian canal, to the sphenopalatine fossa of the deep region of the face. DEEP KEGION OF THE FACE. Dissection.—The deep region of the right side of the face may be dissected consecutively to its superficial region, but in order to illustrate, undisturbed, the pharynx with its contiguous vessels and nerves, the right side is reserved for the same, and the deep region of the face is illustrated on the left side. Terms of Relation.—The general terms (page 2), are used in locating the parts in this dissection. Bones, and Bone Areas of Muscle Attachments, Plates 190 and 199.—The bones forming the walls of this region are : internally, the superior maxillary (the postero-external sur- face of the body), and the sphenoid (the plates of one its pterygoid processes); superiorly, the sphenoid (one of its great wings), and the temporal (inferior face of its petrous portion); externally, the inferior maxillary (one of its rami), the.tem- poral (its zygoma), and the malar; posteriorly, the three superior cervical vertebras (the anterior of their transverse pro- cesses). All of these bones, except the cervical vertebras, afford attachments to muscles of the region. Internally, the region is walled by the superior portion of the pharynx, and the pil- lars and tonsil of the soft palate. Dissection.—The dissection of the superficial region of the left antero- lateral area of the face should be made, according to the steps detailed (pages 327 to 337, inclusive), and the illustrations (Plates 181 to 184, inclusive), given for the right. Saw the left zygomatic arch along lines similar to those shown in Fig. 2, Plate 184—through the malar bone and the zygoma of the temporal bone—and remove the included portion of bone. Clear the external surface of the inferior portion of the left temporal muscle, and follow the same to its inferior attachment.