398 HEAD AND NECK. portion of the external face of the aiytenoid cartilage, pos- teriorly, to the border of the epiglottis, anteriorly. Dissection.—Take the larynx from the frame. Cut (Fig. 1, Plate 208), on the median line, the posterior of the trachea and the cricoid cartilage, and then between the arytenoid cartilages ; make, anteriorly, a second median-line cut of the trachea, cricoid cartilage, crico-thyroid membrane, and thyroid cartilage ; then slit the epiglottis, sufficiently, to allow the opening of the halves of the larynx. Suspend the larynx in the frame, so as to present its interior, as in Fig. 1, Plate 208. Demonstrate the ventricles of the larynx, and cavities of the, right and left, laryngeal pouches—insert a probe into the latter. 20. True Vocal Cords: Fig. 2, Plate 206; Plate 208.— These are a right and a left, antero-posterior, raucous-mem- brane covered, band, at the interior of the lateral walls of tin* laryngeal cavity ; a cord extends from the posterior surface of the angle formed by the alse of the thyroid cartilage (a little to one side of the median line), anteriorly, to the anterior angle of the base of an arytenoid cartilage, posteriorly. 21. False Vocal Cords.—These are located superiorly to the true vocal cords ; they are a right and left, antero-posterior, mucous-membrane covered, ridge—less prominent than, and not so sharply defined as, the true vocal cords—along the in- terior of the lateral walls of the larynx. 22. Ventricles and Laryngeal Pouches of the Larynx, Plate 208.—The ventricles of the larynx are: a right and a left oval depression at the interior of the lateral walls of the larynx, between the false and true vocal cords. The laryngeal pouches are a right and a left, sac-like, involution of the mucous membrane of the larynx, which are projected, superiorly, be- tween the interior and the exterior parts of the thyroaryte- noid muscles ; they are located superiorly to, and open into, the ventricles. Dissection.—Cut the right half of the epiglottis, and remove the right half of the larynx (Fig. 2, Plate 208) ; place the left half with its interior sur- face uppermost and dissect off its mucous membrane, and the half of the crico- thyroid membrane. Display (Fig. 2, Plate 208) the interior surfaces of the following parts of the left side of the larynx : the half of the cricoid cartilage; the internal surface of the arytenoid cartilage ; portions of the crico-thyroid and lateral crico-arytenoid muscles; the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament; the superior thyro arytenoid ligament ; the thyro-arytenoid, thyro-epiglottidean, and aryteno-epiglottidean muscles ; and the epiglottis.