60 TRUNK. Dissection.—Cut the mesenteric vein at the trunk and dissect the branches off from the subjacent arteries (leave the stump of the vein as in Plate 34). Include a length of eight or ten inches of the small intestine between two ligatures, and inflate it with the blow-pipe. Trace the branches of the su- perior mesenteric artery; also the intestinal branches of the sympathetic nerve. 17. Abdominal Portion of the Sympathetic Xervous Sy§- tem, Plate 33.—In the course of the dissection of the arteries in the abdominal cavity, the plexuses and branches of this por- tion of the sympathetic nervous system will be exposed. (The Plate is introduced here, that the dissector may recognize these nerves as he meets with them upon the arteries ; except as a special dissection it is not necessary to preserve them.) 18. Superior Mesenteric Artery, Plate 34.—This artery, branch of the abdominal aorta, emerges from between the pan- creas and duodenum and enters between the layers of the mesentery. The trunk is directed obliquely to the right ingui- nal region, where it terminates by anastomosing with the ileal branch of the ileo-colic artery. From the left of the trunk are given off the intestinal branches to the jejunal and ileal por- tions of the small intestine; these latter, branching continu- ously, become the rami intestini tenuis, which distribute to the two surfaces of the intestine, whose walls they penetrate. Dissection.—Incise the posterior layer of the peritoneum, forming the transverse meso-colon, inferior to the raised transverse colon—take the plane of the arteries beneath it as the guide of the layer—and dissect off the posterior layer of the meso-colon, exposing the colica media artery, branch of the supe- rior mesenteric. 19. Colica Media Artery.—This artery (vena comes) is given off from the right side of the superior mesenteric, near its emergence from between the pancreas and the duodenum ; soon after its origin it gives off the colica dextra branch. The trunk bifurcates into a right and left branch, which distribute to the transverse colon ; the left branch anastomoses with the colica sinistra artery of the descending colon. 20. Colica Dextra Artery.—This branch (vena comes) of the last described artery extends to the right, bifurcating to distribute to the ascending colon. The superior branch anas- tomoses with the right branch of the colica media.