333 SUPERFICIAL REGION OF THE FACE. orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and has an indirectly-oblique course, posteriorly to the zygomaticus major and minor mus- cles (Fig. 2, Plate 182), to the point where it passes anteriorly to the body of the inferior maxillary bone into the subfascial plane of the neck (Plate 192). 19. Facial Artery.—This artery is projected, from the neck (Plate 192), anteriorly to the body of the inferior maxillary bone, and internally to the facial vein. It has a superior and internal, tortuous, course to a point externally to the angle of the lips ; then, it is continued, superiorly to the superior lip, posteriorly to the zygomaticus major, zygomaticus minor, leva- tor labii superioris proprius, and levator labii superioris alseque nasi muscles (Fig. 2, Plate 182); finally, it runs, superiorly, upon the exterior of the lateral wall of the nose. 20. Branches of the Facial Portion of the Facial Artery. —These branches present, in order, as follows : an anastomos- ing branch passes, superiorly and posteriorly, to the transverse facial artery ; the inferior labial has an internal course to the inferior lip, posteriorly to the depressor anguli oris muscle ; the inferior coronary is projected internally, in the submu- cous plane of the lip, and has a median-line anastomosis with its fellow of the opposite side ; the superior coronary passes, internally, in the same plane of the lip, and anastomoses, as does the inferior—it gives off the artery of the septum to the septum of the nostrils ; the lateral nasal artery runs, inter- nally, exteriorly to the fleshy portion of the nostril, to its me- dian line anastomosis with its fellow of the opposite side ; the angular artery, the terminal branch of the facial, is located at the exterior of the superior portion of the nose, where it anasto- moses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery (Plate 183). 21. Pyramidalis Nasi Muscle.—This muscle is lodged exte- riorly to the nasal bone ; superiorly, it ends in the skin of the inferior portion of the frontal region ; interiorly, it blends with the superior.border of the compressor naris muscle. 22. Compressor Maris Muscle, Plate 181 ; Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; Plate 183 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184 ; and Plates 187 and 188.—This muscle is attached : externally, to the anterior surface of the