SPINAL CORD IN SITU. 279 from the bony walls of the spinal canal by loose connective tis- sue, in which ramilies a network of veins. Laterally and infe- riorly to the sheathed spinal cord and cauda equina sixty-two pairs of roots of spinal nerves are projected, to form the thirty- one pairs of spinal nerves, which leave the spinal canal by the intervertebral foramina of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar re- gions, and by the anterior and posterior foramina of the sacral region. # 52. Dura Mater of Ike Spinal Cord.—This is the outer of three membranes that invest the spinal cord and the cauda equina. It projects sheaths upon the sixty-two pairs of roots of the spinal nerves. It is attached: superiorly, to the circum- ference of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone ; laterally, to the circumferences of the foramina of exit from the canal of the twenty-live pairs of spinal nerves, and the anterior and pos- terior, divisions of the five pairs of sacral and one pair of coc- cygeal spinal nerves ; inferiorly, to the posterior surface of the coccyx. Dissection.—Slit open the dura mater, along the median line, from the • level of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone to its inferior end (Plates 153 and 154). 53. Subdural Space.—The dura mater being a loose invest- ment of the spinal cord, a subdural space presents between it and the arachnoid membrane. 54. Spinal Cord Invested by (lie Arachnoid and Pia Mater Membranes.—The spinal cord, in situ, invested by its sheaths of arachnoid and pia mater membranes, is an elongated mass extending from the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, superiorly, to the level of about the first lumbar vertebra, infe- riorly. It is large in the cervical region—the cervical enlarge- ment ; small in the superior two-thirds of the dorsal region ; and large in the inferior third of the dorsal region—the lumbar enlargement. Its inferior end tapers to a point—the conus medullaris; from the latter a slender portion, the filum terminate, is continued inferiorly. Inferiorly to the conus medullaris of the spinal cord, the dura mater contains the filum terminale and a leash of twenty pairs of roots of spinal nerves—eight lumbar (second to fifth, inclusive), ten sacral, and two coccygeal—these form the cauda equina of the spinal cord.