346 HEAD AND NECK. intracranial portion has a superior course toward the vertex area of the head (Plate 179), between the dura mater and the lateral osseous wall of the cranium. 3. External Superficial Petrosal Nerve. — This nerve, branch of the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve, enters the interior of the cranium by a small foramen in the anterior wall of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It has a short intracranial course, between the dura mater and bone, to the middle meningeal artery, where it communicates with the sympathetic nerve plexus upon that artery. Dissection.—Section (as on right side of Plate 186) the right superior max- illary and inferior maxillary divisions of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve; dissect away the ganglion and portion of the motor root of the nerve. Expose the intracranial portions of the internal carotid artery, and the large superficial petrosal nerve (Plate 186, right side). 4. Internal Carotid Artery.—The intracranial portion of this artery emerges into the interior of the cranium (Plate 186, right side) from the internal orifice of the carotid canal, at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; thence it is projected, superiorly, at the lateral surface of the body of the sphenoid bone. It gives oil the ophthalmic and posterior communicating arteries, and then bifurcates into the middle and anterior cerebral arteries. (In the removal of the brain, etc., from the interior of the cranium (page 324), the internal carotid arteries, the right and the left, are cut between the giving off of their ophthalmic and posterior communicating branches; therefore, the latter branches and the bifurcations of these arteries are removed with, and are described with, the brain.) 5. targe Superficial Petrosal tferve.—This nerve, branch of the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve—lodged in the aqueductus Fallopii of the petrous portion of the temporal bone—emerges into the interior of the cranium by the hiatus Fallopii, at the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Its intracranial portion runs, internally and anteriorly, between the dura mater and the bony floor of the middle fossa of the cranium. It passes inferiorly to the Gas- serian ganglion of the trifacial nerve, and the interna] carotid artery to reach the foramen lacerum medium—a triangular de-