FIFTH DISSECTION. ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC INTERIOES. Dissection.—Take up the dissection of the abdominal cavity, as left after the completion of the fourth dissection. Section the vena cava, the ureters and the spermatic vessels (Plate 38) ; reflect the inferior portions of the two latter into the pelvic cavity. Remove the testes from the scrotum and place them in the pelvis. Spread the thighs and take out the sutures from the perineal flaps. Cut the penis free from the pubic arch, so that it may come away in continuity with the bladder. Trace the ureters and the vasa deferentia or the ureters, the ovarian vessels, and the round ligaments of the uterus as they pass, exterior to the peritoneum, to the interior of the lateral walls of the pelvic cavity ; reflect the same, from the respective sides, upon the pelvic viscera, toward the median line. Pass the fingers external to the reflected ducts and vessels, between the peritoneum and the fascia liDing the pelvic walls, and free the pelvic organs ; use the curved scissors to cut the vesical, middle hemorrhoidal and uterine vessels. Remove the viscera— bladder, rectum (male), or bladder, rectum, uterus, vagina (female), with at- tached vessels, etc.—through the inferior outlet of the pelvis. Empty and wash out the rectum and bladder, after which the pelvic viscera, en masse, may be placed in preservative fluid for subsequent dissection. Bring together the thighs and clean the common, the external and the internal iliac arteries and veins. 1. Common Iliac Arteries, Plates 38 and 39. — These trunks pass from their origin, at the bifurcation of the abdom- inal aorta upon the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, to the sacro-iliac articulations. The right lies against the internal sur- face of the vena cava and the right common iliac vein ; the left is between the left psoas magnus muscle, externally, and the left common iliac vein, internally. At the sacro-iliac articula- tion of a side the artery divides into the external and the in- ternal iliac arteries. 2. External Iliac Artery.—This artery continues, from its origin, along the internal surface of the psoas magnus muscle to pass beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, where it be-