ARTICULATION OF SHOULDER. 315 ARTICULATION OF SHOULDER. Dissection.—Clear the proximal end of the humerus, cutting the muscles short, that are attached thereto. Display the surfaces of the capsular and coraco- clavicular ligaments of the joint. Terms of Relation.—The general terms anterior and poste- rior, external and internal, superior and inferior, will be used. Bones, Plates 113 and 158 ; Fig. 3, Plate 175.—The humerus —its head and anatomical neck—and the scapula—its glenoid cavity, neck, and coracoid process—contribute to the construc- tion of the shoulder-joint or scapulo-humeral joint. 1. Muscles Crossing the Exterior of the Capsular Liga- ment, Plate 176.—Anteriorly, the subscapular is, from the sub- scapular fossa of the scapula to the small tuberosity of the humerus ; superiorly, the supraspinatus, from the supraspi- natus fossa of the scapula to the superior facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus ; posteriorly, the infraspinatus and the teres minor, from the infraspinatus fossa of the scapula to the middle and inferior facets respectively of the great tuber- osity of the humerus. 2. Capsular Ligament, Plate 176.—This loose, circumfe- rential ligament extends from the anatomical neck of the hu- merus and the circumference of that bone inferiorly thereto, to the circumference of the neck of the scapula. 3. Coraco-humeral Ligament, Plate 113 ; Fig. 1, Plate 176. —This ligament extends from the superior portion of the prox- imal end of the humerus, between its great tuberosity and the anatomical neck, to the external border of the root of the coracoid process of the scapula. It serves to strengthen the superior portion of the capsular ligament. Dissection.—Section the anterior, inferior, and posterior portions of the capsular ligament; raise the humerus, superiorly, so as to expose the interior of the shoulder-joint. 4. Glenoid Ligament, Fig. 3, Plate 175.—This is circum- ferential fibro-cartilage, that rims the glenoid cavity of the scapula, for the purpose of deepening the same.