AKTICTJLATION OF THE KNEE. 187 superior {proximal) tibio-fibular ligament passes from the inner border of the anterior surface of the proximal end of the fibula to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The posterior supe- rior {proximal) tibio-fibular ligament bridges from the border of the posterior surface of the proximal end of the fibula to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, by its distal attachment to the proximal end of the fibula, is accessory to this joint (Fig. I, Plate 107). AETICULATION OF THE KNEE. Terms of Relation—The terms in the description of this articulation are those used for the ankle (page 177). Bones of the Knee-joint, Plates 59, 83, and 91.—The bones which enter into the construction of the knee-joint are : the tibia, the femur, and the patella, directly; with the fibula, in- directly, in its affording attachment to a ligament of the joint. Dissection.—Clear the posterior, tlie lateral, and the anterior surfaces of the knee-joint, preserving the muscle attachments in its vicinity. 1. Huscle Attachments to the Surfaces of the Knee, Plates 59, 67, 83, 107, 108, and 109 ; Figs. 1 and 2 of Plate 110.-To the tibia are attached : the quadriceps extensorfemoris muscle (page 115), at the tubercle of the bone (ligamentum patellge) and at the antero-lateral surfaces of the tuberosities (lateral expansions of the aponeurosis) ; the compound aponeurosis of the sartorius, the semitendinosus, and the gracilis muscles to the antero-lateral face of the inner tuberosity ; the semimem- branosus and the popliteus, to the posterior surface of the inner tuberosity. To the fibula: the biceps and the soleus. To the patella: included as this bone is (sesamoid bone) in the compound aponeurosis of the quadriceps extensor femoris muscle, it receives, at the anterior surface of its proximal and lateral borders, the four muscles contributed to the aponeuro- sis (Plate 59) • the latter projects from its distal tip and lateral borders as the ligamentum patellae and lateral expansions of the aponeurosis. To the femur: the plantaris and gastroc-