TKUNK. 102 body of the uterus, and it folds over its fundus to cover the posterior of the same ; it continues upon the posterior surface of the superior end of the vagina, from which it is reflected to the anterior wall of the rectum, thereby forming the recto- vaginal or Douglas' cul-de-sac (page 41; Fig. 2, Plate 20). From the lateral border of the body of the uterus, the perito-- neum is projected in two layers (from the anterior and the posterior surface, respectively) as a broad ligament of the or- gan (page 69 ; Fig. 2, Plate 37). Dissection.—Section the peritoneum of the vesico-uterine cul-de-sac, and dissect the bladder and urethra from the uterus and the vagina. Section the recto-vaginal cul-de-sac, and separate the vagina from the rectum. Slit open the bladder and urethra along the mid-line of their antero-superior wall and spread them open upon a dissecting board. 3. Bladder and Urethra.—The interior of the female blad- der presents the same appearances as the male (page 97). The short female urethra, one inch and a half in length, is in marked contrast to the male urethra of eight inches; it was seen (page 40 ; Fig. 1, Plate 20) forming a conical projection from the neck of the bladder; on section, this projection will be found forming a thick wall to the canal. Dissection.—Lay the uterus with its broad ligaments and the vagina (emptied of oakum) upon the dissecting board, with their antero-superior face uppermost (Fig. 1, Plate 57); pin the organs fast. 4. Broad Ligaments of the Uterus, Fig. 1, Plate 57.— These two ligaments are projected one from either side of the body of the uterus; they are formed as shown above by two layers of peritoneum ; the anterior layer presents a smooth unbroken surface. Dissection.—Incise and dissect off the anterior layer of the right broad ligament of the uterus (Fig. 1, Plate 57) ; determine the Fallopian tube, the round ligament of the uterus, the ligament of the ovary, and the ramifications of the uterine and ovarian arteries between the layers of the ligament. Eecog- nize the slit in the anterior face of the posterior layer of the ligament, where the vessels to, and from, the ovary pass ; the ligament of the ovary also passes to the latter through it. 5. Fallopian Tubes.—These canals spring from the superior and lateral angles of the body of the uterus. A Fallopian tube