HEAD AND NECK. 362 the neck, inferiorly to, and in the same manner as, the anterior division of the third. The stumps of the acromial, clavicular, and sternal nerves (page 358 and 357), may be traced to it. It also gives off the nerve to the scalenus medius muscle. 24. Phrenic Nerve, Plates 194 to 198, inclusive.—This nerve is a branch of the anterior division of the fourth cervical-spinal nerve (sometimes it is contributed to by the anterior divisions of the third and fifth (Plate 198).cervical-spinal nerves, one or both). Its cervical portion is projected, inferiorly, upon the anterior surface of the scalenus anticus muscle, to its disap- pearance between that muscle, posteriorly, and the subclavian vein, anteriorly. Anteriorly, it is crossed by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the ascending cervical, superficial cervical, and suprascapular arteries. Dissection.—Clear (Plate 194) the surface of the submaxillary gland. Eaise (Plate 194) the submaxillary and parotid glands (by loops of thread) and display the mylo-hyoid and digastric muscles; also portions of the stylo-hyoid and stylo glossus muscles. Trace (Plate 194) the internal and external laryngeal arteries. 25. Submaxillary Gland, Plates 192 to 197, inclusive.—This gland is lodged (Plate 192) between : the external half of the body of the inferior maxillary bone, superiorly ; the facial vein, externally ; the facial artery, the mylo-hyoid muscle, and the inferior ends of the digastric (posterior belly) and stylo- hyoid muscles, internally (Plate 194). It is about the size of an English walnut. 26. Mylo-hyoid Muscle, Plates 190 and 192 to 197, inclusive. This muscle bridges from the posterior of the superior border of the body of the hyoid bone to the mylo-hyoid ridge at the posterior surface of the body of the inferior maxillary bone (Plate 190). It is located in the floor of the buccal cavity, in a plane interiorly to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Its fibres pass, superiorly and externally, from the hyoid bone and a median-line, fibrous, raphe (from the hyoid bone to the inferior maxillary bone) between the right and left muscles. 27. Digastric Musc3e, Plates 189, 190, and 192 to 195, in- clusive.—This muscle has four portions—a posterior belly, an anterior belly, a mid-tendon, and a fascial loop. The posterior