VERTEX PORTION" OF THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN". 323 brain ; they are located antero-posteriorly, at either side of the median line, where they project the dura mater, and produce by their development erosions of the interior of the calvarium. They vary in number and development in different subjects. Dissection.—Incise, from a posterior point anteriorly, the median line of the dura mater, where its two halves will be found united by transverse strands of fibrous tissue. This will bring into view an antero-posterior canal. 26. Superior Longitudinal Sinus.—This is one of the fifteen intracranial venous canals formed by the dura mater. This sinus is formed by the dipping, inferiorly, of the dura mater, between the hemispheres of the cerebrum—forming the falx cerebri. The apposed surfaces of the membrane adhere to form the Moor of the sinus, while the edges of the reduplications are bridged by transverse strands of fibrous tissue, which form its roof. It is a triangular canal, which is lined by the continua- tion of the internal coat of veins emptying into it ; it is small anteriorly, and increases in size antero-posteriorly ; laterally, it presents the orifices of veins. Dissection.—Cut away one-half of the vertex portion of the dura mater (Plate 179), so as to display the subdural space and the arachnoid membrane. Dissect away, in turn, the posterior half of the exposed arachnoid membrane (Plate 179), thereby discovering the subarachnoidean space and the pia mater. Eemove a part of the pia mater from the posterior portion of the cerebrum (Plate 179). 27. Subdural Space, Plate 179.—This is a space between the dura mater and the arachnoid membranes of the brain. 28. Arachnoid Membrane.—This is the middle one of the three membranes of the brain. It bridges the sulci of the ex- terior surface of the cerebrum, and also the prominences of the brain at its base. 29. Subarachnoidean Space.—This is a space between the arachnoid and the pia mater membranes of the brain, within which ramify the supplying arterial trunks to the brain. The space communicates with the ventricular cavities of the brain, to be referred to hereafter. It contains, in life, a liquid, the cerebrospinal fluid. 30. Pia Mater.—This, the interior of the three membranes of the brain, forms an intimate investiture of the organ ; it dips into and lines all the sulci and inequalities of the brain, and even, as will be shown hereafter, is projected into its