TRUNK. 16 muscle to the coccyx. Beflect flaps of subcutaneous tissue, similar to those of the skin; seek a subcutaneous nerve on the fascia lata, external to the ramus of the pubic arch. 3. Inferior Pudendal Nerve.—This nerve is a branch of the lesser sciatic, that becomes subcutaneous by piercing the fascia lata, external to the tuberosity of the ischium ; it con- tinues anteriorly, external to the urethral region, to distribute to the skin of the external and posterior surfaces of the scro- tum. A branch perforates the perineal fascia to communicate with the anterior superficial perineal nerve. Dissection.—Dig out the fat external to the anterior half of the sphincter ani muscle (by scratching through it with the point of the closed curved scis- sors and picking out the detached portions with the forceps), so as to deter- mine the posterior edge of the perineal fascia. 4. Perineal Fascia.—This fascia constitutes the third plane of the urethral region. It is continued anteriorly from its base line, the bis-ischiatic fascial junction, over the subpubic portion of the penis, and is attached laterally to the exterior surface and free border of the ramus of the pubic arch. Beyond the urethral region it is continued into the dartos tunic of the scrotum. In the dissection of the inguinal region, the scrotum and the penis, we shall find this plane of fascia con- tinued, superiorly, from the scrotum (dartos tunic), as the deep layer of the subcutaneous tissue of the groin and also as a dartos sheath of the penis. Dissection.—Dig out the remaining fat from the ischio-rectal fossa. All strokes, whether of scratching or cutting, should be made at a right angle to the median line, as vessels and nerves, which cross the fossa from its ischial to its rectal wall, would otherwise be severed. Expose the inferior edge of the gluteus maximus muscle. In clearing the fat from the anterior portion of the levator fascia, be careful not to cut through it, but scrape the fat from it so as to preserve its attachment to the bis-ischiatic fascial junction. 5. Gluteus Maximus Muscle, Plate 7.—The inferior edge of this muscle passes from the side of the coccyx, across to and over the exterior surface of the tuberosity of the ischium. Over the muscle edge vessels and nerves (small sciatic branches and the fourth sacral nerve) curve to its exterior surface, for subcutaneous distribution. 6. Ischio-Rectal Fossa.—The fossa is located between the