VISCEEA OF THE THORAX OUT OF THE BODY. 261 17. Left Coronary Artery.—This artery (vena comes) arises from the posterior surface of the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, close to the origin of the latter from the heart. It bifurcates into a right and a left branch : the right branch passes anteriorly to the appendix of the left auricle, into the left auriculo-ventricular furrow and supplies the left auricle and ventricle ; the left branch terminates by lodgement in the right interventricular furrow (page 258 ; Fig. 1, Plate 144); other branches ramify upon the surface of the left ventricle, which it supplies. Branches of the left anastomose with those of the right coronary artery. Dissection.—Open the cavity of the right auricle by the section lines shown upon its exterior (Fig. 1, Plate 144). Eaise the flap of the auricular wall by loops of thread, to expose the interior of the cavity. 18. Interior of the Right Auricle, Fig. 1, Plate 145.—The interior of this cavity presents: a lining of serous membrane —endocardium; sub-endocardial muscle fibres, which form ridges upon the collapsed anterior wall of the cavity portion and of the appendix—musculi pectinati; the openings into the cavity—for the incoming of blood—of the vena cava supe- rior, the vena cava inferior, the coronary vein, and the vence Thebesii (the latter are the orifices of veins in the wall of the auricle) ; the right side of the inter auricular septum, with the fossa ovalis (a membrane within a thickened annulus or border) of adult life (the foramen ovale—the interauricular communication, of foetal life); the ridge of reduplicated endo- cardium, Eustachian valve, extends from the margin of the orifice of the vena cava inferior to the border of the fossa ovalis (by this, during fcetal life, the blood entering this cavity, by the vena cava inferior, is guided to the foramen ovale to pass into the left auricle); the reduplicated endocardium at the opening of the coronary vein—the coronary valve; the right auriculo-ventricular orifice—for the outgoing of blood—open- ing into the right ventricle. Dissection.—Open the cavity of the right ventricle by the section lines upon its exterior (Fig. 1, Plate 144). Enter the cavity toward the apex of the organ, then, with the scissors, make the diverging cuts : the right, as far as the musculi papillares which afford attachments to the chordae tendinse of the cusps of the tricuspid valve; the left, out through the wall of the common pulmo- nary artery. Eaise the flap of the ventricular wall by loops of thread.