ANTEEIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND IIAND. 229 profundus, and to the outer side of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscles ; for the distal half of the forearm it runs to the inner side of the ulnar artery. In its distal third it gives off : a dor- sal branch, which winds around the inner side of the fore- arm to the dorsum of the hand ; and a palmar cutaneous branch, which passes to the hand, upon the anterior surface of the ulnar artery. At its carpal portion it bifurcates as before shown (page 218). §5. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris Muscle, Plates 121, 125, and 127 to 134, inclusive.—The proximal attachments of this muscle (page 211) are : to the inner condyle of the humerus, by the compound flexor attachment thereto (page 224) ; to the inner side of the olecranon process of the ulna ; by an aponeurotic portion, which invests the flexor profundus digitorum muscle, to the internal and posterior ridge of the shaft of the ulna. 86. Anterior Interosseous Nerve and its Muscle Branches, Plates 128 and 130.—This nerve, branch of the median (page 225), has a distal course from its origin, to where it passes to a deep plane between the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis muscles. It gives off, from its inner side, two branches to the former muscle, which pass posteriorly to the median nerve ; from its outer side, three branches are af- forded : two to the flexor longus pollicis muscle ; and one to the flexor profundus digitorum muscle. Dissection.—Clear the palmar surface of the tendons of the flexor profun- dus digitorum muscle. Expose the relations, of the digital portions, of the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum muscles. Display the palmar surfaces of the four lumbricales muscles ; also, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle. 87. Flexor Profundus Digitorum Muscle, Plates 121, 130, and 131.—This muscle has a proximal attachment to the ante- rior surface and inner side of the shaft of the ulna, and, also, to the anterior surface of the radio-ulnar interosseous ligament; the distal forearm portion of the muscle projects four tendons into the metacarpal region, which are continued to the palmar surfaces of the digits, second to fifth, inclusive. §§. Relations of the Digital Portions of the Tendons of the Flexor SuMimis and Flexor Profundus Digitorum Muscles, Plates 121, 129, 131, and 132.—A tendon of the flexor sublimis