FEMALE PERINEUM. 41 found loosely adherent by the intervention of a delicate areo- lar tissue. Its lateral surfaces present some small arterial branches. 49. Ureters.—These ducts will be seen to enter the bladder, approaching the same obliquely from without inwards and for- wards ; their points of entrance are about one inch and one- half apart. Before entering the bladder they are located be- tween the superior wall of the vagina and the base of the bladder. 50. Superior Wall of the Vagina.—The wall of this canal is thick and smooth, and its muscle structure evident ; at its lateral borders are the vaginal arteries. Dissection. —Restore the bladder, urethra, and superior wall of the vagina to their normal positions. Insert a hook into the posterior part of the cir- cumference of the vaginal outlet, and pull the same anteriorly ; dissect off the opposite rectal wall. For a distance of about one inch and one-half in- teriorly to the tendinous centre of the perineum, the vagina and rectum are in- timately adherent, allowing of no sliding of their applied walls upon each other. Beyond their exterior adherent portions the two canals are loosely held together by areolar tissue, thus admitting of the sliding of one canal wall upon die other. As the dissection progresses the vagina should be pulled anteriorly, the rectum posteriorly and out of the pelvis. When about five inches of the superior wall of the rectum have been exposed, a septum of membrane, peritoneum, will be seen reflected from the rectum to the vagina Note, on either side of the interior portion of the exposed rectum, the middle hemorrhoidal arteries; also, the vaginal arteries at either side of the vagina. 51. Inferior Wall of the Vagina, Fig. 2, Plate 20—This wall of the vagina presents little difference from the superior, except that a larger number of veins ramify in its substance. 52. Rectum (Superior wall).—This wall of the rectum pre- sents the peculiar muscular structure of this portion of the large intestine, namely, that of longitudinal fibres ; it is quite thick, though not as thick as the opposite vaginal wall. 53. Recto-Vaginal Cul-de-Sac of Peritoneum.—The mem branous cul-de-sac, brought into view, interiorly, at the upper part of the exposed portions of the rectum and vagina, is iormed by the peritoneum ; it is the bottom of the recto-vaginal or Douglas' cul-de-sac. Bypassing the finger into the vagina