281 SPINAL COED 11ST SITU. suits in a corresponding variation of the relation of the levels of the points of exit of the nerves from the spinal canal, with the origins of their roots from the spinal cord ; the distances between these levels increasing as you advance to the inferior spinal nerves. 5§. Ganglia on the Posterior Moots of Spinal! Serves, Plate 153.—The second cervical spinal nerve, as traced, shows a gan- glion upon its posterior (sensory) root, just before the fusion of that root with the anterior (motor) root of the nerve, to form the mixed (containing both motor and sensory fibres) spinal nerve. (The second cervical nerve may be taken as a type of the thirty- one pairs of spinal nerves.) The other ganglia of the cervical region, and those of the dorsal and lumbar regions are close to, or within the intervertebral foramina of exit of the.nerves from the spinal canal. In the sacral region the ganglia appear within the sacral canal, together with the resultant mixed sacral nerves ; the latter bifurcate, within the canal, into their anterior and posterior divisions; these anterior and posterior divisions leave the sacral canal by the anterior and posterior sacral foramina, respectively. 59. Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve, of a side, is seen at the lateral surface of, and taking origin from, the cervical portion of the spinal cord. It has a superior course, between the anterior and posterior roots of the cervical spinal nerves, to its entrance into the cranium by the foramen magnum of the occipital bone. VEETEBEAL COLUMN AND ITS LIGAMENTS. Vertebral Column, Plates 42, 147, 155, 156, and 189.—This column contains twenty-six bones (adult), viz. : seven cervical, twelve dorsal, and five lumbar vertebrae, the sacrum, and the coccyx. A vertebra is a signet-ring shaped bone with two portions : the signet and the hoop. The signet portion, called the body (Fig. 3, Plate 155 ; Figs. 2 and 4, Plate 156), is located anteri- orly ; the hoop portion, called the arch, is located posteriorly, and is formed by two symmetrical halves, each consisting of a pedicle and a lamina : the pedicles (Fig. 3, Plate 155 ; Figs. 3 and 4, Plate 156) spring, right and left, from the posterior or