140 LOWER EXTREMITY. The artery has a distal course, in the longitudinal axis of the pollex digit, through the inner intermuscular septum ; it emerges for superficial distribution as already stated (page 137) Its proximal and deep portion supplies the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor pollicis muscles, and gives off its anastomotic artery (page 137). 29. Internal Plantar Nerve.—This nerve accompanies the internal plantar artery, lying to its dorsal surface ; its proxi- mal portion supplies the flexor brevis digitorum and tte ab- ductor pollicis muscles. Its metatarsal and digital portions were before described (page 136). 30 Nerve to the Flexor Brevis Digitorum Muscle.—In reflecting the proximal portion of this muscle this nerve, branch from the outer side of the internal plantar nerve, ap- pears entering its inner side. 31 Nerve to the Abductor Pollicis Muscle.—From the inner'side of the internal plantar nerve a branch is given to this muscle, which enters its outer surface. 32 Nerve to the Abductor Minimi Digiti Muscle.—The external plantar nerve gives off, opposite the inner surface of the calcaneum, a branch to this muscle; it crosses the foot, on the plantar surface of the proximal end of the flexor acces- sorius muscle, to reach the deep surface of the proximal half of the muscle it supplies. 33. External Plantar Artery, Plates 79 and 81.-This artery (venae comites) originates from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial artery, at the inner side of the calcaneum ; it passes ob- liquely across the proximal third of the sole of the foot, upon the plantar surface of the flexor accessorius muscle, and enters the outer intermuscular septum ; through which it runs, m the longitudinal line of the fourth digit. The plantar surface of the distal third of the artery is crossed by branches of the external plantar nerve. Opposite the base of the fourth metatarsal bone the artery curves to the inner side and passes to the dorsal surface of the outer border of the terminal tendon, to the hitli digit, of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. In the exposed portion of its course it gives off muscle branches and the first