C5 ABDOMINAL VISCERA IX SITU. gall-bladder; the posterior surface of the descending portion rests upon the right' kidney ; the concavity of this intestinal segment receives the head of the pancreas ; the transverse colon is superposed upon its anterior surface. Dissection.—Inflate the stomach and duodenum by means of the blow- pipe ; introduce the latter into the anterior wall of the duodenum. Pull the right half of the stomach superiorly, and to the right, upon the anterior surface of the right costal cartilages and the ensiform cartilage of the sternum. Dis- sect the first and half of the second portion of the duodenum from the head of the pancreas ; in so doing drag upon the stomach, superiorly, by a loop of string around the pylorus, until it and the duodenum assume the position shown in Plate 36. Trace the gastro-duodenal artery and its branches, also the ductus communis choledochus. Pull aside the left inferior costal cartilages. Clear the anterior surface of the pancreas, noting its relations to the duodenum, superior mesenteric vessels, the splenic artery and vein and the spleen itself. Eemove the anterior portion of the gastro-splenic omentum ; reflect the spleen externally, and note the terminal branches of the splenic artery. 33. Pancrea§.—This organ lies transversely and obliquely across the abdomen : its right extremity is included in the concavity of the duodenum; its body rests upon the mesen- teric vessels; its tail crosses over the left kidney, the tip of the former impinging upon the spleen. The inferior border of its head overlaps the anterior surface of the commencement of the third or oblique portion of the duodenum. Anteriorly, the stomach and the transverse colon are superposed upon it. 34. Gastro-vDiioclemil Artery.—This artery (vena comes) is the largest branch of the hepatic. It curves, inferior^, pos- terior to the first portion of the duodenum. It gives off the pyloric artery, and bifurcates into the gastro-epiploica dextra and the superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries. 35. Pyloric Artery.—This branch (vena comes) of the gastro- duodenal or the hepatic artery curves to the left, along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and anastomoses with the gas- tric or coronary artery. 36. Gastro-Epiploica Dextra Artery.—This vessel (vena comes) curves to the left, along the greater curvature of the stomach, anastomosing with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, branch from the splenic artery. 5