ANTERIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. 233 comes its outer palmar collateral digital artery (the third). The first, the second, and the third interosseous arteries (venae comites) are given off from the arch opposite the intermeta- carpal spaces, second to fourth, inclusive ; they have a distal course, upon the jDalmar surfaces of the interossei muscles (first palmar, third dorsal, and fourth dorsal, respectively) to their anastomoses with the third, fourth, and fifth digital arteries, respectively, before the distal bifurcation of the latter (page 210); they supply contiguous muscles in the deep plane of the palm. The dorsal ox perforating brandies (venae comites) are given off opposite the proximal ends of the second, third, and fourth dorsal interossei muscles ; they perforate the muscles to reach the dorsal surface of the metacarpal region. The proxi- mal branch or recurrent carpal, has a recurrent course, to the palmar surface of the carpus. 97. Deep Palmar Nerve.—This nerve, branch of the ulnar (page 218), enters the deep plane of the palm, to the dorsal surface of the proximal end of the opponens minimi digiti muscle, with, and to the proximal side of, the deep palmar artery. It crosses the palm : for its first half, it lies to the proximal side of the deep palmar arch; opposite the base of the third metacarpal bone it passes, at the dorsal side of the arch, to the distal side of the outer portion of the arch ; oppo- site the proximal portion of the second intermetacarpal space it has its terminal bifurcation. It has five distal and two ter- minal muscle branches. The five distal muscle branches are : the first (Plate 132) bifurcates to distribute to the third palmar interosseous and the fourth lumbricalis; the second, to the fourth dorsal interosseous ; the third bifurcates to supply the second palmar interosseous and the third lumbricalis; the fourth, to the third dorsal interosseous; the fifth, to the second dorsal interosseous; the sixth (Plate 133), to the adductor pol- iicis (page 232). Of the two terminal muscle branches: the proximal one distributes to the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis (page 232); the distal one bifurcates to supply the first palmar and the first dorsal interosseous (Plate 133). Dissection.—Follow the distal portion of the flexor carpi radialis muscle to its attachment. Clear the fascia from the palmar surfaces of the inter- osseous muscles, palmar and dorsal; display the transverse metacarpal liga- ment. Then, cut the ligament away so as to expose the distal ends of the latter muscles.