^08 LOWER EXTREMITY. DissECTioN.-Over the patella determine a bursa. Along the inner area of the limb find the internal saphenous vein, and follow its tributary branches Dissect out, when present, the saphenous lymphatic glands in the proximal quarter of the dissection area. 2. Bursa over the Patella, Plate 60.—At the anterior sur- face of the patella is a well-marked subcutaneous bursa. 3. Internal Saphenous Vein.—This is a large subcutaneous vein,'which has a proximal course from the inner side of the knee along the. inner side of the thigh, to the saphenous open- ino- (page 109) in the fascia (lata) of the region, where it enters to^empty into the femoral vein. In its course it receives tribu- tary subcutaneous veins from the anterior and posterior areas of the thigh ; also the recurrent subcutaneous veins from the inferior anterolateral areas of the abdominal panetes (page 44 ; Plate 22). 4. Saphenous Lymphatic Glands—These glands are clus- tered about the saphenous opening. They receive lymphatic vessels from the areas contributing tributary veins to the in- ternal saphenous vein. Their efferent vessels penetrate to the deeper glands through the saphenous opening. DissECTiON.-Clear away the saphenous lymphatic glands, being careful not to destroy the boundaries of the saphenous opening. Determine the points of emergence through the fascia lata of the superficial arteries. Cut away the tributary veins of the internal saphenous vein. 5 Subcutaneous Arteries.—The areas of distribution of the recurrent branches of the femoral artery have already been described (page 44) and illustrated (Plate 22). At this time we only desire to recognize, that they-the superficial epigastric, the superficial circumflex iliac and the superior external pudic —emerge from beneath the fascia lata, through or in the vi- cinity of the saphenous opening. The inferior external pudic artery perforates the pubic portion of the fascia lata, close to the femoro-scrotal groove, for distribution to the scrotum Upon the anterior surface of the thigh small arterial twigs will be found to emerge through the fascia lata. DissEcrioN.-Trace the cutaneous nerves in their distal course through the subcutaneous tissue.