23 MALE PERINEUM. It will be recognized as including, in one continuous fascia, the so-called anal fascia of the rectal region and the so-called posterior layer of triangular ligament of the urethral region. As the fascia covering the obturator muscle is called obturator fascia, this plane of fibrous tissue may be called levator fascia as it invests the exterior surface of the levator ani et prostatas muscle. The levator fascia, externally, is given on* as an in- ternal process from the obturator fascia, inferior to the obtu- rator fascia attachment of the levator ani et prostatse muscle. It is thus given off inferior to " the white line" or the splitting of the pelvic fascia—from the interior of the body of the os pubis, anteriorly, to the spine of the ischium, posteriorly—into the obturator and recto-vesical fasciae. From its external at- tachment it spreads to the median line, exterior to the levator ani et prostatas muscle. In the rectal region, the levator ani portion of this plane of fascia {anal fascia) forms the internal wall of the ischio-rectal fossa; it passes from its attachment to the obturator fascia and the spine of the ischium, externally ; to the median line anterior to the anus—it is here attached to the tendinous cen- tre of the perineum—to the wall of the rectum, to the median line between the anus and the coccyx, and to the coccyx, in- ternally. Its posterior limit is at the inferior edge of the coccygeus muscle. Continued from the obturator fascia on the interior of the pubic arch, the levator prostates portion of the levator fascia {posterior layer of triangular ligament) occupies the urethral region of the perineum ; externally, it lines the interior surface, and springs from the interior lip of the internal free border, of the ramus of the pubic arch ; internally, it reaches the me- dian line, where it meets its fellow of the opposite side, and the two surround and give transit to the prostatic end of the mem- branous urethra. At its median line limit it attaches itself to the portion of the recto-vesical fascia which forms the pros- tatic capsule ; and to the tendinous centre of the perineum. At the bis-ischiatic fascial junction the levator fascia is at- tached, which attachment divides it into its levator ani and levator prostatas portions. 37. Membranous Portion of the Urethra, Plates 10, 11, and 12.—This portion of the urethral canal is located in the in- terval between the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, exteriorly,