MIDDLE FOSSAE OF THE CEANIUM. 345 180): the sphenoid (superior and lateral surfaces of its body, a great wing, and a small wing); the temporal (anterior surface and apex of its petrous portion). It communicates with : the orbit, by the sphenoidal h'ssure and optic foramen (Plate 181); the deep region of the face (Plate 199) by the foramen rotun- dum, foramen ovale, and foramen spinosum ; with the aque- ductus Fallopii, by the hiatus Fallopii. Dissection.—Peel the dura mater from the interior of a middle fossa of the cranium, and expose (Plate 185, left side) the following parts : the stumps of the motor and sensory roots of the trifacial nerve ; the Gasserian ganglion, with the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary divisions of the sensory root of the same nerve; the middle meningeal artery; the large superficial petrosal and external superficial petrosal nerves. 1. Trifacial Nerve: its Gasserian Ganglion; Divisions of its Sensory Root; and its Motor Root, Plates 185 and 186.— The motor and sensory roots of the trifacial nerve pass, ante- riorly, superiorly to the superior border of the internal end of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The Gasserian gan- glion, of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve, is located on a depression at the anterior surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the anterior of the ganglion the three divisions of the sensory root of the nerve are given off : the ophthalmic, the superior maxillary, and the in- ferior maxillary. The ophthalmic division has been described (page 340) and illustrated (Plates 185 and 186, left sides); the superior maxillary division is projected, anteriorly, to its emergence from the cranium, to the spheno-palatine fossa of the deep region of the face, by the foramen rotundum in the great wing of the -sphenoid bone ; the inferior maxillary di- vision passes, inferiorly, out of the cranium, to the deep region of the face (Plate 188), by the foramen ovale in the great wing of the sphenoid bone. The motor root of the trifacial nerve runs, inferiorly to the Gasserian ganglion, to the foramen ovale, where it leaves the interior of the cranium to enter the deep region of the face (Plate 188) with the inferior maxillary division of the sensory root of the nerve. 2. Middle Meningeal Artery. — This artery enters the cranium, from the deep region of the face (Plate 188), by the foramen spinosum in the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Its