TRUNK. 242 14. Right and Left Innominate Veins.—The right innomi- nate vein, a short and almost vertical vessel, is projected into the thorax, posteriorly to the internal end of the right clavicle. The left vein is long, and emerges from the posterior of the internal end of the left clavicle ; it crosses the median line, to unite with the right, to form the vena cava superior. 15. Vena Cava Superior.—This short, large, venous trunk, as formed by the junction of the two last-described veins, is continued, inferiorly, to where it is invested by the pericar- dium, being lodged between the right lung and the thymus gland. Dissection.—Section the vena cava superior (Plate 137), and the right and left innominate veins ; dissect away the thymus gland and the portions of the veins between the section lines. Find the right and left pneumogastric nerves ; also, the right and left recurrent laryngeal nerves. Display the right and left cervical cardiac nerves, and the right and left thoracic cardiac nerves, noting their relations to the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta and the innomi- nate artery. Expose the anterior surfaces of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta ; the innominate artery (and its bifurcation into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries) ; the left common carotid artery; and the left subclavian artery. Clear the portions of the trachea, superiorly to, and of the right bronchus, posteriorly to, the arch of the aorta. 16. Pneumoga§trie Nerves, Plate 138,—These nerves, right and left, enter the thorax from the neck. The rigid appears, in the thorax, anteriorly to the right subclavian artery, con- tinuing, inferiorly, to where it disappears posteriorly to the right bronchus. The left passes into the thorax, anteriorly to the left half of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta ; inferiorly to the aorta, it is continued posteriorly to the left bronchus. Each nerve gives off : a recurrent laryngeal nerve; and thoracic cardiac nerves, to the cardiac plexus. 17. Recurrent Laryngeal IVerves.—These nerves, the right and left, are given off from the pneumogastric nerves, right and left, respectively : the right, inferiorly to the right subclavian artery, posteriorly to which it winds, to take its course, superi- orly, into the neck; the left, takes its origin inferiorly to the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, to the posterior sur-j face of which it winds, to take its course, superiorly, into the; neck, where it appears, to the left of the trachea, upon the an terior surface of the oesophagus.