VISCEKA OF THE THORAX OUT OF THE BODY. 259 of its base. The left ventricle projects beyond its borders and its apex. 7. Common Pulmonary Artery.—This, the largest artery in the body, is projected from the left superior angle of the right ventricle. 8. Right Coronary Artery.—This artery (vena comes) arises from the anterior surface of the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, close to the cardiac origin of the same. It is pro- jected anteriorly, between the appendix of the right auricle, to the right, and the common pulmonary artery, to the left. Its course is to the right, in the right auriculo-ventricular furrow ; it sends branches, inferiorly, upon the exterior surface of the right ventricle, from which, in turn, branches enter the wall of the ventricle. Small branches are given off from it, superiorly, which enter the wall of the right auricle. Its terminal branch is continued into the right interventricular furrow, 9. Left Coronary Artery.—The terminal branch of this ar- tery (vena comes) is lodged in the left interventricular furrow. Its branches anastomose with branches of the right coronary artery. Dissection.—Place the heart upon the dissecting hoard, with its left-heart surface (left auricle and left ventricle) uppermost. Dissect off the visceral portion of the pericardium from the auricular and ventricular areas ; clear the left auriculo-ventricular furrow, displaying, and preserving, in so doing, the coronary vein. Follow the left coronary artery from its origin from the aorta, and trace its branches. Expose the posterior surfaces of the cardiac ends of the aorta and the common pulmonary artery. 10. Exterior of the Left Heart, Fig. 2, Plate 144.—This heart surface is formed by the posterior and the left postero- lateral surfaces of the organ, in situ (Plate 142). It presents : the left auriculo-ventricular furrow, lodging the coronary vein and the left coronary artery; the left auricle, with its four con- verging pulmonary veins ; the left ventricle with its projecting aorta; the posterior surface of the ascending portion of the aorta" giving off the left coronary artery ; the posterior surface of the common pulmonary artery ; and that of the vena cava superior. 11. Left Auriculo-veiitrieuBar Furrow.—This furrow has a transverse course, between the left auricle and the left ventricle.