ANTEROLATERAL AREA OF THE NECK. 369 the internal portion of the left half of the superior end of the sternum. Its origin from the arch of the aorta (page 244; Plate 138) determines this difference. Dissection.—Withdraw the block from beneath the head and neck and steady the head as in Plate 197. Section (Plate 196) the right common carotid artery and pneumogastric nerve ; reflect them superiorly as in Plate 197. Clear away the posterior layer of the anterior portion of the deep cervical fascia, and expose the cervical portion of the right sympathetic nerve (Plate 197). 50. Cervical Portion of the Right Sympathetic Nerve, Plate 197.—This nerve cord lies upon the anterior surface of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, posteriorly to the car- otid sheath and the deep layer of the anterior portion of the deep cervical fascia. It consists of three ganglia—inferior, middle, and superior—united by commissural nerve trunks. The inferior ganglion lies internally and posteriorly to the vertebral artery ; the middle ganglion is usually located an- teriorly to the inferior thyroid artery ; the superior ganglion is lodged posteriorly to the internal carotid artery. (Special dissections will demonstrate communicating branches from the anterior branches of the cervical-spinal nerves to the ganglia, and distributing branches from the ganglia—superior, middle, and inferior cardiac nerves—which pass, inferiorly, into the in- terior of the thorax.) 51. Superior laryngeal Nerve (right), Plates 192 to 197, inclusive.—This nerve has been described at page 365 ; it may now be traced to its origin from the superior part of the cervical portion of the pneumogastric nerve. Dissection.—Clear (Plate 197) the first and third portions of the right sub- clavian artery, and the cervical portion of their branches ; the subclavian vein, and the brachial j)lexus. 52. First and Third Portions of the Right Subclavian Ar- tery, Plates 192, 194, 196, 197, and 198.—The first and a part of the third portion of this artery present as follows : the first portion, from the bifurcation of the innominate artery to the internal border of the inferior end of the scalenus anticus mus- cle, where it passes, to become the second portion of the ar- tery, posteriorly to the muscle ; the third portion (its superior