POSTEEIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM", HAND, AND DIGITS. 303 of the carpus, and is attached to the anterior and outer surfaces of the proximal end of the first metacarpal bone (Plate 121). 24. Supinator Brevis Muscle, Plates 121, 163, 167, 168, and 159—The anterior portion of this muscle was described (page 236), and illustrated (Plates 126, 128, 129, 130, and Fig. 1, Plate 134). The muscle, posteriorly, covers the proximal por- tion of the shaft and neck of the radius, bridging therefrom to the outer condyle of the humerus and the outer side of the proximal end of the shaft of the ulna. It is attached as fol- lows : anteriorly (Plate 121), to the outer side of the coronoid process and proximal end of the shaft of the ulna, and to the outer side of the neck and the proximal end of the shaft of the radius ; posteriorly (Plate 163), to the outer condyle of the humerus by the compound extensor attachment, to the outer side of the proximal end of the shaft of the ulna, and to the posterior surface and outer side of the neck and the proximal end of the shaft of the radius. 25. Deep Fascia of the Posterior Surface of the Wrist and Metacarpus, Plates 165, 167, and 168.—A layer of deep fascia invests the posterior surfaces of the distal radio-ulnar artic- ulation, the carpus, and the metacarpus. The partitions of the compartments of the posterior annular ligament bridge between the latter ligament and this deep fascia. Dissection. —Section (Plate 168) the posterior interosseous nerve and re- move the portion between the cuts. Cut the middle perforating branch of the anterior interosseous artery. Section (Plate 167) the distal ends of the exten- sor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscles ; reflect their proximal portions and cut them from their attachments, as in Plate 169. Dissect away the ulnar attachments of the extensor secundi inter- nodii pollicis and the extensor indicis muscles. Cut the tendons of the exten- sor carpi radialis longior, extensor carpi radialis brevior, and extensor carpi ulnaris at their distal ends (Plate 168). Clear the radial attachment of the pronator radii teres muscle. Cut away the ulnar portion of the supinator bre- vis muscle and trace, in a proximal direction, the posterior interosseous recur- rent branch of the posterior interosseous artery. Clear away the deep fascia from the distal ends of the radius and ulna, and from the carpus and meta- carpus. Display the distal end of the posterior interosseous nerve and its terminal ganglion ; the distal end of the third perforating branch of the an- terior interosseous artery, following it to its anastomosis ; the posterior carpal branches of the ulnar and radial arteries; the dorsal digital arteries ; the per- forating arteries ; the dorsal collateral digital arteries ; and the dorsal inter- osseous muscles.