414 HEAD ANT> NECK. of this lobe present the following: the ascending parietal convolution posteriorly to, and parallel with, the furrow of Rolando ; posteriorly to the ascending parietal convolution, the intraparietal furrow (page 412 ; Plates 212 and 213) divides the posterior part of this lobe into a superior parietal lobule (Plates 212 and 215) and an inferior parietal lobule (Plates 212 and 213)—in the latter sulci determine the supra-marginal convolution, anteriorly, and the angular convolution, poste- riorly. The internal-lateral surface or wall of the longitudinal fissure of this lobe presents the quadrate lobule (Plate 215), which is bounded: anteriorly, by the calloso-marginal sulcus ; inferiorly, by the convolution of the corpus callosum ; posteri- orly, by the occipitoparietal fissure. 5. Convolutions, Sulci, and Lobule of an Occipital Lobe. —Of this lobe sulci, at its postero-external surface, map out, more or less definitely, the superior occipital, the middle occip- ital, and the inferior occipital convolutions (Plate 212). At its internal-lateral surface or its portion of the wall of the longi- tudinal fissure, is the calcarine sulcus, and the area called the cuneate lobule. 6. Convolutions and Sulci of the Temporo-sphenoidal Lobe, Plates 213 and 214.—At the external-lateral face of this lobe are the following : the superior temporo-sphenoidal con- volution and the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution, sepa- rated by the superior temporo-sphenoidal sulcus (Plate 213). Its inferior surface (Plate 214) presents : the continuations of the superior and middle convolutions divided by the last- named sulcus ; the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution has the middle temporo-sphenoidal sulcus separating it from the middle convolution ; the collateral sulcus marks off the uncinate convolution from the last-named convolution. 7. Convolutions and Sulci of the Central Lobe, Plate 213. —The short vertical convolutions of the exterior of this lobe are determined by from four to six shallow, parallel, and vertical sulci. PAKTS OF THE BEAIN. Brain, Plates 212, 213, and 214.—This intracranial organ is a mass of grey and white neural tissue, which is variously dis- tributed in its parts. It is divided : primarily, into four parts—