NASAL CAVITIES AND CONTIGUOUS PAKTS. 401 right and left lateral, a superior, a right and left anterolateral, and a median-line septum between the two cavities. The in- ferior wall (the superior surface of the hard palate) is formed by the following bones : the right and left superior maxillary (their palatine processes) ; the right and left palate (their hori- zontal plates). A laleral wall is contributed to by bones as follows : a superior maxillary (its nasal process and body); a lachrymal ; the ethmoid (its lateral mass and turbinate processes of same); a palate (its vertical plate); a turbinate; and the sphenoid (the internal plate of its pterygoid process). The bones of the superior wall are : the ethmoid (its cribriform plate) ; the sphenoid (its body) ; the vomer (its aire) ; the right and left palate (their sphenoidal processes). The antero-laleral walls are constructed by the frontal bone (its nasal spine); the right and left nasal bones ; the cartilages of the alse (the right and left superior lateral, inferior lateral, and sesamoid), and the fibrous tissue of the alse (connecting the cartilages and forming the alar borders of the anterior nares). The median- line septum between the two cavities is formed by : the ethmoid bone (the nasal portion of its perpendicular plate); the vomer bone ; and the cartilage of the septum. The osseous openings, covered by mucous membrane, of a narium are : at the superior wall, the foramina in a half of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone (for entering branches from the bulb of the olfactory nerve), and the points of entrance of the nasal nerve, the anterior ethmoidal artery, and the pos- terior ethmoidal artery ; at the external wall, the sphenopala- tine foramen (for the entrance of the nasal branches of the spheno-palatine ganglion, and the spheno-palatine branch of the internal, maxillary artery) ; at the anterior of the inferior wall, the incisor foramen of the anterior palatine canal (for the exit into the mouth of the naso-palatine nerve and artery). Mucous membrane (the Schneiderian membrane) lines the interiors of the nasal cavities, covering intimately the perios- teum of the osseous, and the perichondrium of the cartilagi- nous, areas. l. Anterior iVares, Plate 197.—These are the right and left facial openings into the nasal cavities. Their borders are formed of fibrous tissue, which is covered, exteriorly and in- teriorly, by the skin. 26