220 UPPER EXTREMITY. surface of the flexor tendons, with its convexity at about the line of junction of the proximal and middle thirds of the palm. 52. Sheathed Tendons of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum Muscle (second to fifth digit, inclusive), Plate 127, and Fig. 2, Plate 4.—Four tendons emerge into the palmar fossa, from the dorsal surface of the anterior annular ligament ; they are en- closed in a common synovial sheath in the palm. The tendons diverge to pass to the palmar surfaces of the digits, second to fifth, inclusive, where they are contained in the digital synovial sheaths. The common palmar sheath may be opened and probed, to show : its prolongation into the distal portion of the forearm, posteriorly to, and to the proximal side of, the annular ligament; also, its independence of the digital sheaths, with the exception of that of the iifth digit. 53. Palmar Intertendinous Spaces, Plate 127.—Four lon- gitudinal, intertendinous spaces are present in the palm The first, between the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis and the first (second digit) tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle-it includes the parts upon the outer side of the second metacarpal bone. The second, between the first (second digit) and second (third digit) tendons of the flexor sublimis muscle- it leads to the webbing between the second and third digits. The third, between the second (third digit) and third (fourth , digit) tendons of the flexor sublimis muscle-it leads to the webbing between the third and fourth digits. The fourth, be- tween the third (fourth digit) and fourth (fifth digit) tendons of the flexor sublimis muscle-it leads to the webbing between the fourth and fifth digits. The webbings between the proximal ends of the digits lead to the palmar lateral digital surfaces of the dibits. The palmar intertendinous spaces are bridged by the superficial palmar arch, and at these points the archives j off the digital arteries—third, fourth, and fifth. DissECTioN.-EXpose the vessels, the nerves, and the muscle in the first palmar intertendinous space. 54. Adductor Pollicis Muscle, Plates 127 and 129.-The dis- tal border of this muscle bridges between the pollex digit i (phalanx of) and the palmar fossa ; it has a muscle branch from the superficial palmar arch ramifying upon its palmar surface.