PREFACE. vii dissections of a region or organ about which he desired in- formation. To meet this want has been one of the aims in the preparation of this work, special attention having been given to those regions and organs which claim frequent surgical and medical care. To this end also the Contents and Index have been so elaborated as to facilitate the finding of the Plate illustrations and text descriptions of any part. Too much cannot be said in praise of the comparatively wonderful artistic skill displayed by Mr. Maximilian Colin, in his faithful reproductions of nature, given us in the Plates and Plate Figures ; and the clearness of his lettering of the same. The illustrations are photographic in their representations of nature, and are works of art in themselves. Thanks are due to the Moss Engraving Co. for the care which has been bestowed upon the photo-engraving and the printing of the Plates. Nature has been the text-book, to which reference has always been made ; but, a due respect for the labors of our fathers and of our contemporaries has been kept in view. The original intention was to illustrate this work by selec- tions from the illustrations of standard authors, simply adapt- ing and lettering the same to fulfil our purpose. After having carried out this scheme to the extent of some 300 photo-Plates and 150 electrotypes, the plan was abandoned, because it was found impracticable to accomplish the object of the work therewith, and the cadaver was resorted to. Errors and omissions, no doubt, may be found in the text and Plates, but should any, of whatever nature, appear to a reader, his personal communication of the same to the author will be regarded as a kindness. The manifold difficulties and disappointments that have been met with, in the evolution of this volume, are only for a private e'ar. The desired end will have been attained, if the fruits borne of years of time, thought, and labor are : that it enables the student of medicine to acquire, more readily and thoroughly, a knowledge of human anatomy ; and proves a companion to the surgeon and the physician, to keep them in mind of the practical facts of anatomy. 51 West 22d Street, New York City, December, 1885.