LOWER EXTREMITY. 33. Anastomotiea Magna Artery, Plate 98,-This artery (vena comites) has been described (page 118) and illustrated (Plates 64 and 65) in the anterior region of the thigh. If the dissection of the anterior region of the thigh has not preceded that of the posterior region, this artery will present at the inner side of the tendinous portion of the adductor magnus muscle, to the proximal side of the inner condyle of the femur. 34. Internal Saphenoas Nerve.-This nerve was before de- scribed (pages 113 and 114), as seen in the anterior region of the thigh It is now seen, from its posterior aspect, in that portion of its course where it accompanies the last-described artery. DissECTiON.-Determinethe articular branches of the popliteal artery and follow them to the antero-lateral areas of the knee. 35. Artlenlar Branel.es of the Popliteal Artery.—The ar ticular branches of this artery are five in number: the superior and inferior external articular, the superior and inferior in- ternal articular, and the azygos articular. The four first wind respectively, to the antero-lateral areas of the knee-joint, to form with the anastomotica magna, from the femoral, and the anterior tibial recurrent (page 132 ; Plate 74), from the anterior tibial, the deep and superficial peri-articular plexuses of the anterolateral areas of the knee. The azygos articular branch perforates the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. DissEcnoN.-Clear the surface of the quadratus femoris muscle and find the emergence of the internal circumflex artery at the internal portion of As inferior border. 36 Onadratns Femoris Muscle, Plate 59 ; Fig. 1, Plate 91; | Plates 95 to 100, inclusive.-A small area of the anterior sur- face of this muscle appeared in the anterior region of the thign (page 120 ; Plate 65, and Fig. 2, Plate 66). Its posterior surface presents as an oblong muscle, running transversely, from the anterior surface of the posterior ramus of the ischium (P at 59), internally, to the posterior surface ot the trochantei major of the femur, externally. It has the gemellus interior muscle superiorly, and the adductor magnus muscle interiorly. DJSSECTION.-Section the gluteus medius muscle (Plate 95) and reflect its portions, superiorly and interiorly, to their attachments, where they away, as in Plate 99; note the vessels entering the aatenor surface of the mus