337 SUPEKFICIAL KEGION" OF THE FACE. artery; the supratrochlear nerve ; the anterior portions of the levator palpe- brae superioris and obliquus superior muscles ; and the lachrymal gland. Dissect away the inferior portion of the palpebral ligament and display: the internal portion and anterior surface of the obliquus inferior muscle. Find and trace the nasal artery; and the infratrochlear nerve. 35. Supra-orbital Nerve and Artery, Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; Plates 183 and 184.—This nerve and artery pass ont of the orbital cavity, by the supra-orbital notch or foramen (Plate 181), to reach the frontal area of the scalp (page 319; Plate 177). 36. Frontal and Nasal Arteries. — These arteries (venae comites) are the branches of bifurcation of the ophthalmic ar- tery at the internal side of the anterior of the orbit, inferiorly to the trochlea of the obliquus superior muscle. The frontal artery has a superior course to supply the frontal area of the scalp (page 318 ; Plate 177). The nasal artery runs, inferiorly and internally, to distribute to the exterior of the nose, and anastomose with branches of the facial and infra-orbital ar- teries, and with its fellow of the opposite side. 37. Supratrochlear Nerve.—This nerve emerges froni the orbit superiorly to the trochlea of the obliquus superior mus- cle ; has a superior course to the frontal area of the scalp (page 318 ; Plate 177) ; in its latter distribution it runs parallel with, and internally to, the frontal artery. 38. Infratrochlear Nerve—This nerve appears from the orbit, inferiorly to the trochlea of the obliquus superior mus- cle. It distributes to the internal portion of the inferior eyelid and the nose. OEBITAL CAVITY. Dissection. — The anatomical elements in one orbit may be dissected consecu- tively, without carrying f6rward the dissection of the two ; but for the illustration of the parts contained in one orbit it is convenient to make counter-references to the dissected contents of both orbital cavities. Term§ of Relation.—The general terms (Page 2) are used in the description of the dissection of the contents of this cavity. Bones, and Bone Areas of muscle Attachments, Plate 181.— The bones which form the walls of the orbital cavity 22