96 ' TKUNK. ing board, with the exterior of the base of the bladder and the inferior surface of the penis uppermost. Determine the ureters, the vasa deferentia, the vesi- cular seminales, the prostate, the membranous portion of the urethra, Cowper's glands, the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, and the crura of the corpora caver- nosa. 4. Ureters, Fig. 1, Plate 55.—The superior portions of these renal ducts were recognized (page 72) and illustrated (Plate 38) in situ; their inferior portions were left passing into the pelvic cavity upon the interior of its lateral walls ; now they are seen perforating the wall of the bladder. 5. Vasa Deterentia. 6. Vesicular Seminales. 7. Exterior of Trigone. §. Prostate (inferior surface). 9. Membranous Portion of tlie Uretlira (inferior surface). 10. Cowper's Glands. 11, Bulb of tlie Corpus Spongiosum. 12. Crura off the Corpora Cavernosa.—The parts, 5 to 12 inclusive, were de- scribed and illustrated in the dissection of the Male Perineum (pages 19, 20, 22, 23, 26 ; Plates 10 and 12). Dissection.—Section the prostate on the median line from the notch at its base toward its apex, so as to expose the ejaculatory ducts, traversing its sub- stance. 13. Ejaculatory Ducts, Plate 55.—These ducts, a right and a left, result from the convergence of the right and left vas deferens with the duct of the right and left vesicula semi- nalis, respectively. The junctions of these ducts take place at or within the prostate ; as formed, the ejaculatory ducts con- tinue in a channel through the prostate. Dissection.—Enter probes or wisps of broom-straw into the ureters and vasa deferentia (Fig. 1, Plate 55) ; unfasten the bladder and penis ; then pin them again to the dissecting board, with the interior of the former and he dorsum of the latter uppermost. Section the penis, a little to one side of the median line of its dorsum, from the glans penis to the bladder, so as to separate the corpora cavernosa and to open into the urethral canal, from the meatus to the bladder (Fig. 1, Plate 56) ; secure the penis, so as to expose the inferior wall of the urethra. 14. interior of the Bladder, Fig. 2, Plate 55.—The inte- rior of this organ has a smooth, pale mucous membrane r at its base are seen to protrude the probes at the orifices of ihe ureters. An interior trigone area appears, which is smaller than the exterior one ; the orifices of the ureters are at the an- gles of its base line, about one inch and a half apart; the