50 TRUNK. fibres form what is called the cremaster muscle. In the fe- male the looping of these inferior fibres of the obliquus in- ternets muscle does not occur ; the muscle fibres simply separate to give transit to the round ligament of the uterus, and pass, internally, to be attached to the conjoined tendon and the os pabis. Dissection.—Dissect the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves supe- riorly and reflect them externally. Make an incision through the fibres of the obliquus internus muscle from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the linea semilunaris, a second through its fibres, attached to Poupart's liga- ment (Plate 25). Reflect the included inguinal portion of the muscle to the linea semilunaris. In the male trace the middle Poupart ligament fibres to the exterior of the conjoined tendon portion of the transversalis abdominis muscle; and the inferior fibres as they form the cremasteric loops upon the spermatic cord. In the female note the absence of cremasteric loops and the unbroken plane of the muscle. Incise the muscle as follows : from the eleventh rib to the ilium, and along its crest attachment; also below its at- tachments to the eleventh rib and its cartilage. Reflect a flap, internally, of the superior anterolateral portion of the muscle to the linea semilunaris ; throw the flap over the reflected obliquus externus muscle. The guides to the plane of intermuscular fibrous tissue, separating the obliquus internus from the trans- versalis abdominis muscle, are the vessels and nerves ramifying between these muscles. Remove the fibres of the obliquus internus to the conjoined tendon, noting, that they are inserted into the exterior surface of the transversalis por- tion of the tendon. Dissect off the cremasteric loops from the spermatic cord. 23. Intermuscular Septum.—A plane of fibrous tissue forms a septum between the obliquus internus and the transversalis abdominis muscles, in which vessels and nerves ramify. Dissection.—Differentiate the nerves and arteries in the fibrous tissue plane, and dissect off the latter from the anterolateral area of the transversalis abdominis muscle. 24. »eep Vessels and Serves of the Parietes, Plates 26 and 27.—These vessels and nerves are the terminal branches of the four inferior intercostal arteries and nerves, which continue to the median line ; they may be traced, internally, to where they penetrate the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. They supply the anterolateral muscles and skin of the abdominal parietes. The ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, branches of the first lumbar nerve, also present. 25. Deep Circumflex Iliac Artery, Plate 27. — This ar- tery (vena comes) is a branch of the external iliac. It per-