244 TRUNK. where it bifurcates into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. The former is continued, superiorly, into the neck, along the right of the trachea ; the latter passes into the root of the neck, arching over the right first rib, to be con- tinued as the right axillary artery (page 203, Plate 119). 23. Left Common Carotid Artery.—This artery has a supe- rior course into the neck, to the left side of the (Esophagus and trachea. Its origin, within the thorax, from the arch of the aorta, makes its trunk much longer than the right common carotid. 24. Left Subclavian Artery.—This artery, to the left of the last-described artery, is projected, superiorly, into the root of the neck. Its trunk is much longer than the right subclavian, because of its aortic origin. It arches over the left first rib, that it may be continued as the left axillary artery. 25. Trachea.—A portion of the trachea, and of the right bronchus, appear in a plane posteriorly to the arch of the aorta and the innominate artery. 26. CE§opliagu§.—A portion of this canal lies in a posterior plane between the trachea and the left common carotid artery. Dissection.—Pass the hand into the thorax, right and left, and free the right and left lungs from the thoracic parietes. Dissect the diaphragmatic por- tion of the parietal layer of the pericardium from the superior surface of the diaphragm. Section (see Plate 138) the following parts: the innominate, lef common carotid, and left subclavian arteries (cutting therewith the right and left cervical cardiac nerves) ; the phrenic nerves and the comes nervi phremci arteries at their superior and inferior ends, removing their intervening por- tions • the left recurrent laryngeal nerve at its origin, and where it appears anteriorly to the oesophagus; the thoracic cardiac branches of the pneumogas- tric nerves (right and left); and the trachea. Pass the hand into the superior of the thorax, grasping the cut inferior portion of the trachea and the arch o the aorta; drag the heart and lungs anteriorly, and inferiorly; with the curved scissors cut the trachea, and the bronchi, from the oesophagus, and the descend- ing portion of the arch of the aorta from the thoracic parietes ; cut also the pulmonary branches of the right and left pneumogastric nerves, so as to, le^e the trunks of the two latter nerves, in situ, upon the oesophagus. Cut the yen. azygos major as it enters the posterior surface of the extra-pericardia!poiticn of the vena cava superior-leave the vena azygos major upon the surface of the vertebral column. Section the descending portion f ^ *™ of the aorta, at its junction with the thoracic aorta, leaving the lattei.» ^ Plate 139. Finally, section the vena cava inferior, as it comes throng caval opening of the diaphragm, and remove the thoracic viscera, en masse