150 LOWER EXTREMITY. tendons of the extensor longus digitorum muscle of the third, fourth, and fifth digits. 73. Compound Digital Extensor Aponeuroses, Fig. 1, Plate 67; Plate 68; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 82.—Upon the dor- sum of each digit, second to fifth inclusive, a compound digital extensor aponeurosis is formed, by the fusion of a terminal tendon of the extensor longus digitorum muscle, a tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, and fibrous expansions from dorsal and plantar interosseous muscles. The terminal tendon of the extensor longus digitorum of the second digit receives at its inner border the expansion from the first dorsal interosseous ; at its outer border the second tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum and the expansion from the tendon of the second dorsal interosseous. The ex- pansion from the first plantar interosseous blends with the inner border of the longus terminal tendon of the third digit; the third tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum and the expansion from the third dorsal interosseous joins its outer border. For the fourth digit, the inner border of the third ex- tensor longus terminal tendon receives the expansion from the second plantar interosseous ; to the outer border of the same comes the fourth tendon of the extensor brevis muscle and the expansion from the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle. For the fifth digit, the expansion from the third plantar interosse- ous muscle fuses with the inner border of the fourth longus terminal tendon. The compound extensor digital aponeurosis of a digit has three attachments: a middle one to the dorsal surface of the base of the phalangine ; two lateral, which unite for attachment, to the dorsal surface of the base of the pha- langette. These aponeuroses lie upon the dorsal ligaments of the digital joints. Dissection.—After tlie dissection of the dorsal and plantar regions of the foot be careful to keep the foot wrapped in wet cloths, so that the ligaments of the foot and ankle do not become too dry for subsequent dissection.