MALE PERINEUM. the right and left muscle is located inferior to the prostate, thus slinging it and elevating it when in action. 39. Coccygeus Muscle, Fig. 3, Plate 8, and Plates 9 and 10.—Only a limited portion of the inferior border of this mus- cle is brought into view, bridging between the spine of the ischium, externally, and the coccyx, internally. It lies in a plane interior to the sacro-sciatic ligament, and is met, an- teriorly by the posterior border, of the levator ani portion, of the levator ani et prostatse muscle. Dissection.—The relations of the pelvic viscera, at the outlet of the pelvis, may now be determined, by sectioning the levatores ani et prostatas muscles (Plate 9). Eemove the internal portions of the opposite muscles, leaving a fringe of muscle (Plates 10 and 11), projecting external to the sphincter ani muscle (thus left, its attachment to the rectum can be appreciated, when the latter is specially dissected). 40. Recto-Vesical Fascia, Plates 10 and 46.—This fascia is situated interiorly to the levator ani et prostata? muscle. It is given off as an internal process from the pelvic fascia at " the white line" or anteroposterior splitting of the pelvic fascia into recto-vesical and obturator fasciae ; it covers the exterior surfaces of the rectum and bladder, forming a sling for their support at the outlet of the pelvis ; it forms the lateral and anterior true ligaments of the bladder, and surrounds the rec- tum inferior to the pelvic portion of the peritoneum. Dissection.—To expose the portions of the viscera at the outlet of the pelvis, located exterior to the peritoneum, place a hook in the bulb of the cor- pus spongiosum and pull the prostate and bladder anteriorly; dissect the rectum from the recto-vesical fascia septum and reflect it, posteriorly, until the entire contour of the prostate is exposed. 41. Recto-Vesical Fascia Septum, Plate 11.—The recto- vesical fascia projects a septum between the rectum, posteri- orly and inferiorly, and the prostate, bladder, etc., anteriorly and superiorly. Dissection.—Drag the prostate and bladder still more anteriorly, pull the rectum further out of the pelvic cavity, by dissecting it from the base of the bladder and reflecting it posteriorly. Dissect off the vesical layer of the recto - vesical fascia from the prostate (to which it will be found intimately ad- herent, as a fibrous capsule) ; reflect the fascia as a flap, posteriorly, from the prostate and the base of the bladder, upon the rectum, exposing the vasa de- terentia, the vesiculse seminales, and a venous plexus external to the latter.