INTRODUCTION. 7 Superficial Fascia, Fig. 1, Plate 3.—The superficial fascia of a region is a sheet of fibrous tissue, which covers the super- ficies of the muscles ; it is continuous over the whole body, and here and there will be seen to form special thickenings, ' annular ligaments, etc., to subserve the office of bands of pro- tection and inclusion, to bind down tendons, or insure firm packing of subjacent parts. Dissection.—Incisions of fascia should be made (the same as skin incisions) parallel with the fibres of the subjacent muscles. Flaps of fascia should be re- flected, the same as the skin, the strokes of the blade of the scalpel should be parallel with the muscle fibres (Fig. 6, Plate 2). In reflecting the fascia from off a group of muscles, it will be noted that, at each intermuscular space, a continuity of the fascia with fibrous tissue in the intermuscular space exists; it is therefore necessary to cut through this fibrous tissue septum, in order to expose the adjacent muscle. In certain regions, the subjacent muscles are at- tached to the under surface of the fascia ; at these areas, no attempts should be made to raise the fascia, but the same may be left upon the muscle, by cutting the fascia at the circumference of the attached portion. Reflections of fascia should not be cut away. Intermuscular Septa, Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 3.—The inter- muscular septa are fibrous tissue walls, recognized above, in continuity with the deep surface of the superficial fascia. They occupy the interspaces between muscles, forming com- partments (Fig. 2) for their lodgement, and completely isolating each from the other. In Fig. 3, the intermuscular septa are shown in. a transverse section of a limb. muscles—The voluntary muscles invest the bony frame- work, being attached to the bones, at both ends, so as to pro- duce movements at their articulations, or as in the case of the muscles of the face—attached to bone at one end and the skin at the other—to produce the facial expressions. Structurally, a muscle consists of a framework of fibrous tissue, which is continuous between its attachments ; the tendon and the apo- neurosis (fiat tendon of a broad muscle) are respectively the fibrous framework of the. muscle continued by itself; the fleshy portion of the muscle has, in addition, the muscle structure, lodged in the interstices of the fibrous framework. Every muscle is supplied with arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves ; the arteries and nerve or nerves are derived from con- tiguous trunks. The arterial and nerve supply should always be recognized, and the same traced to where they enter the