ANTERIOR OF THE THORACIC PARIETE3. 239 the internal mammary arteries. Dissect away the triangularis sterni muscles and trace the internal mammary artery, where it runs exteriorly to this muscle. Demonstrate a posterior sterno-chondral ligament. 2. Stcriio-Clionclral Articulations, Plate 135.—The costal cartilages in contiguity with the facets at the borders of the sternum form these joints. The ligaments of each joint are: an anterior, a superior, an infer tor (Fig. 1, Plate 135) and a posterior (Fig. 2, Plate 135) sterno-cJionclral. 3. External Intercostal Muscles, Plates 113,120 ; and Fig. 1, Plate 135.—The exterior musculo-aponeurotic plane of an intercostal space is formed (page 204): by an external intercos- tal muscle—to the anterior ends of the ribs ; and an anterior intercostal aponeurosis—in the interchondral space. 4. Internal Intercostal Muscles, Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 135.— The interior muscle plane of the antero-lateral portion of an in- tercostal space is formed by an internal intercostal muscle ; the same being continued to the sternum in the interchondral space. 5. Triangularis Sterni Muscle, Fig. 2, Plate 135.—This muscle is located at the interior of the sternal plate ; it is at- tached to the inferior portion of the sternum, inferiorly ; it expands, superiorly and externally, to be attached to the in- terior surfaces of the costal cartilages and ribs (anterior ends), sixth to second, inclusive. 6. Internal Mammary Artery.—This artery (vense comites) runs upon the interior of the anterior thoracic parietes, ex- ternally to, and parallel with, the border of the sternum. Its inferior portion lies between the costal cartilages and the in- ternal intercostal muscles, exteriorly, and the triangularis sterni muscle, interiorly. At its superior end it gives off the comes nerm phrenici artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm. In each of the six superior interchondral spaces, it gives off its exterior branches as follows : the anterior inter- costal arteries, which perforate the internal intercostal muscle to ramify in the anterior portion of the intercostal space, be- tween the external and the internal intercostal muscles ; the perforating arteries, which pass through the interchondral planes of tissue, the pectoralis major muscle, and the fascia, to reach the subcutaneous plane of the thoracic parietes. Its in-