ANTERIOR OF LEG AND DORSUM OF FOOT. 131 sixth is a branch of the fifth, and runs along the outer side of the fifth metatarsal bone. 29. Dorsal Collateral Digital Arteries, Plates 71 and 74.— These ten arteries are branches of bifurcation or the continua- tion of the dorsal digital arteries : the first and tenth are the continuations of the first and sixth digital arteries, respectively ; the second to ninth, inclusive, arise from the terminal bifur- cations of the digital arteries, second to fifth, inclusive. They ramify in the dorsal halves of the lateral digital surfaces of the digits, as shown upon the second digit in Plate 71. 30. Perforating Arteries, Plates 68 and 74 ; Fig. 1, Plate 82.—These four arteries (vense comites) perforate from the plantar region, between the proximal ends of the dorsal inter- ossei muscles, to anastomose with the dorsal digital arteries, second to fifth, inclusive. The first (the communicating branch of the anterior tibial, of authors) anastomoses with the second dorsal digital ; the second, third, and fourth are branches from the plantar digital arteries (page 148). 31. Dorsal Interossei Muscles, Plates 68 and 74.—The dor- sal surfaces of these four muscles appear in the intermeta- tarsal spaces, first to fourth, inclusive. Dissection.—Cut away the extensor longus digitorum, the peroneus tertius, and the extensor proprius pollicis muscles from their fibular attachments ; preserve the attachment of the fascia and intermuscular septum to the fibula, at the outer side of these muscles. Trace the musculo-cutaneous nerve be- tween the peroneus longus and brevis muscles (Plate 74). Cut the peroneus longus muscle, at the head of the fibula, as required in tracking the musculo- cutaneous nerve to its origin from the external popliteal nerve (Plate 74) ; follow the branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve to the peroneus longus and brevis muscles. Trace the anterior tibial nerve through the proximal portions of the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus longus muscles, to its origin from the external popliteal nerve. 32. External Popliteal tferve, Plates 72 and 74.—This nerve winds around the head or proximal end of the fibula, from the popliteal space. It enters the proximal portion of the peroneus longus muscle, where it gives off the recurrent articular branch, and bifurcates into the musculo-cutaneous and the anterior tibial nerves.