137 PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. 16. Nerves to the First and Second Lumbricales Muscles.— The first lumbricalis muscle is supplied by the third digital nerve; the second lumbricalis receives its nerve from the fourth digital nerve. 17. Anastomotic Branch of the Internal Plantar Artery. —This artery (venae comites), branch of the internal plantar, emerges from the inner intermuscular septum, to the plantar surface of the flexor brevis digitorum muscle ; it takes a distal course, breaking up into three branches, which accompany— lying in a deeper plane—the second, third, and fourth digital nerves, before referred to (page 135). The branches anas- tomose, respectively, with the fifth, fourth, and third digital arteries. 18. Flexor Brevis Digitorum Muscle, Plates 75, 77, and 78. —This muscle occupies the middle of the plantar area: its proximal attachment is to the calcaneum and the dorsal sur- face of the proximal third of the middle portion of the plantar fascia ; in the metatarsal region it projects four tendons to the digits, second to fifth, inclusive ; opposite the phalanx of a digit the tendon splits and reunites again, thereby forming a button-hole opening for the transit of a terminal tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle ; after having provided this point of transit of a longus tendon, the brevis tendon splits again for attachment to the borders of the plantar surface of the phalangine of a digit. Dissection.—Dissect off the inner portion of the plantar fascia. Preserve the first digital nerve and the sixth digital artery (pages 134 and 135). Fol- low the internal plantar artery in a proximal direction to where it emerges from a deeper plane. Clear the surface of the abductor pollicis muscle. 19. Internal Plantar Artery, Plate 77.—The terminal por- tion of this artery (vense comites) emerges, from a deep plane, in the angle of divergence of the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor pollicis muscles. It accompanies, along its outer side, the first digital nerve ; at its distal end it anastomoses with the sixth digital artery. It runs along the plantar sur- face of the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. 20. Abductor Pollicis muscle, Plates 77 and 78.—This muscle occupies the inner border of the tarsal and metatarsal