44 TRUNK. 1. Subcutaneous Tissue, Plate 22.—The subcutaneous tis- sue is more or less loaded with fat. This plane of tissue passes continuously to contribute to the dartos sheath of the penis and the dartos tunic of the scrotum. The inguinal area of the subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall may be easily di- vided into two layers, the superficial and the deep, between which vessels ramify. Note, the perforation of the superficial layer, external to the root of the scrotum and penis, by the superficial penile and scrotal branches of the superficial exter- nal pudic vessels ; also, the perforation of the same, superior to the root of the penis, by the superficial penile branches of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. DissECTiON.-Make the bis-iliac incision on one side, and the median-line incision down to the root of the penis, through the superficial layer of the sub- cutaneous tissue, Reflect an inguinal flap of the superficial layer, being care- ful to preserve the perforating penile and scrotal vessels and nerves by slitting through the layer, so as to retain their continuity from their trunks to their distributions; cany the flap from the face of the anterior superior region of the thigh, so as to expose the saphenous opening in the fascia lata lhe ves- sels between the superficial and deep layers will be found a guide to the sep- aration of the two planes of tissue. Note, the continuity of the superficial layer with the subcutaneous tissue of the thigh, the dartos tunic of the scrotum and the dartos sheath of the penis. Pin the flap to the thigh with the skm. 2 Subcutaneous Arteries of tlie Inguinal Region.—Be tween the layers of the subcutaneous tissue of the inguinal re-ion are the recurrent branches from the femoral artery, which perforate the fascia lata, below the line of the groin: the superficial circumitex iliac, extending superiorly and ex- ternally over the crest of the ilium ; the superficial epigastric, running superiorly and internally; the superior external pu- dic, curving internally to the root of the penis or clitoris. 3. Subcutaneous Veins of the Inguinal Region.-The ven^e comites of the above arteries may be traced to where they empty into the internal saphenous vein, before its entrance into the saphenous opening in the fascia lata. 4. Superficial Dorsal Vessels and Nerves of the Penis.— Between the skin and the dartos sheath of the penis the su- perficial dorsalis penis artery, branch of the superior external pudic, runs longitudinally upon the dorsum of the penis, from the base to the glans. The vena comes, sometimes quite large,