ORBITAL CAVITY. 339 and internally to, the frontal and supra-orbital nerves, to leave the orbit with the latter nerve (page 337 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184). 4. Lachrymal Artery and Nerve—The anterior portions of this artery (vena comes) and nerve have an anterior course, through the superior and external portion of the orbit, to sup- ply the lachrymal gland. 5. Lachrymal Gland, Fig. 2, Plate 184 ; Plate 185.—This small glandular body is located at the anterior, and superior- external portion, of the orbital cavity. It is lodged between : the globe of the eye and its external rectus muscle, inferiorly ; the frontal bone, superiorly ; and the conjunctiva, anteriorly. 6. Levator Palpetorse Superioris Muscle, Plate 181 ; Fig. 2, 184 ; and Plate 185.—This muscle is attached: posteriorly, to the orbital surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, superiorly to the optic foramen ; anteriorly, to the superior border of the tarsus of the superior eyelid. It widens as it advances anteriorly. 7. Obliquus Superior Muscle.—This muscle has four por- tions : the postero-anterior, the transverse, the mid-tendon, and the trochlea. The postero-anterior portion is attached : posteriorly, to the orbital surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, internally and superiorly to the optic foramen ; anteriorly, it ends in the mid-tendon. The transverse portion extends, almost at a right angle to the postero-anterior portion, from the mid-tendon to the anterior, anteroposterior, attach- ment of the muscle to the sclerotic coat of the eyeball, inferi- orly to the rectus superior muscle. The mid-tendon is round and is common to the two muscle portions. The trochlea is a loop of fibrous tissue, which is attached to the orbital surface of the frontal bone—at the trochlear fossa ; within it the mid- tendon plays. Dissection.—Chisel away (according to the section lines on the right side of Plate 185) the internal portion of the left small wing of the sphenoid bone (pick out, with the forceps, the pieces of bone). Expose, with the sharp pointed curved scissors (Plate 185, left side), the transit into the orbit of the optic nerve, ophthalmic artery, trochlear nerve, oculo-motor nerve, and the ophthalmic division of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve, Cut (as in Plate 185, right side) the frontal nerve and supra-orbital artery, and dissect