TWENTY-SIXTH DISSECTION. ARTERIES AND NERVES CONTIGUOUS TO THE PHA- RYNX ; PHARYNX ; SOFT AND HARD PALATE ; TONGUE AND CONTIGUOUS PARTS; LARYNX; NASAL CAVITIES AND CONTIGUOUS PARTS. AETEEIES AND NEEVES CONTIGUOUS TO THE PHAKYNX. Dissection.—The anterior of the head and appended parts, as sawn from the posterior portion of the head (page 374), are prepared for dissection as fol- lows : saw the right and left ramus of the inferior maxillary bone, accord- ing to inferior section line on the same in Fig. 1, Plate 184; stuff the pha- rynx with oakum, through the mouth and oesophagus ; suspend the anterior half of the head and appended parts in the pharyngeal frame (Figure 15, page 378), by strings extending, superiorly, from gimlet holes in the skull—near its superior sawn edge—and, inferiorly, from the trachea ; the strings are tied, taut, into the holes of the frame. Terms of Relation.—The general terms (page 2) are used to locate these arteries and nerves. Dissection.—The vertical section of the cranium (page 374) will have sev- ered the superior end of the right hypoglossal nerve, and have disturbed the superior ends of the pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves at their cranial exit by the foramen lacerum posterius (page 325, Plate 180). As these nerves are bound to each other, and to the internal carotid ar- tery, by connective tissue, they will be found to maintain their normal rela- tions. Cut away (Plate 200) the left internal carotid artery inferiorly to its entrance into the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone (Plate 199) ; the superior portions of the left external carotid artery; the left hypoglossal, pneumogastric (and its branches), spinal accessory, and glosso- pharyngeal (and its branches) nerves ; the left lobe of the thyroid body; the left recurrent laryngeal nerve ; and the inferior laryngeal artery. Eemove the superior end of the right external carotid artery, from a point inferiorly to the giving off of the occipital artery (Plate 196) ; also, the right facial artery, leaving the superior portion of its branch, the ascending palatine artery (Plate 201). Display (Plate 200) the superior portions of the following parts : the right hypoglossal and spinal accessory nerves; the right pneumogastric nerve and its superior branches; the right glossopharyngeal nerve and