ANTERIOR OF THIGH. 119 and the anterior crural nerve. Out the internal circumflex artery at its origin from the profunda and leave its posterior branch in situ. Section the anterior portion of the obturator nerve (Plate 64), the distal ends of its gracilis and articular (knee) branches, and remove the nerves. Section the adductor brevis muscle and reflect its parts; in reflecting its proximal part respect the pos- terior portion of the obturator nerve posterior to it, and recognize its branch to the muscle, which enters the posterior surface of the same; the distal por- tion of the muscle should be cut at its attachment at the linea aspera of the femur, trimming out the perforating arteries from their points of muscle perfo- ration. Reflect the distal portion of the pectineus muscle and cut it at its femoral attachment. Cut the obturator artery. Trace branches from the pos- terior portion of the obturator nerve and from the internal circumflex artery to the adductor magnus muscle. Clean the anterior surface of the adductor magnus and the exposed portions of the obturator externus, the quadratus femoris, the iliacus internus, the psoas magnus, and the semimembranosus muscles ; also the exposed area of the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. 44. Posterior Portion of the Obturator Nerve, Plate 65 and Fig. 2, Plate 66.—This portion of the obturator nerve supplies the adductor brevis, the adductor magnus and the obturator externus muscles; sometimes the articular branch to the knee-joint is derived from this portion of the nerve, instead of the anterior portion (page 118 ; Plate 64). 45. Internal Circumflex Artery.—Branches from this artery distribute upon the anterior surface of the proximal portion of the adductor magnus muscle. Two branches of it pass poste- riorly ; one to the hip-joint, the other between the contiguous borders of the adductor magnus and the quadratus femoris muscles, to emerge into the posterior plane of the thigh. 46. Adductor Magnus Muscle, Plates 59, 64 and 65 ; Fig. 2, Plate 66, and Fig.l, Plate 91.—From its proximal attachment, to the exterior of the ischium of the os innominatum, this mus- cle spreads to its distal attachment to the entire length of the linea aspera of the femur, along the outer side of the inner lip of the same, and to the inner condyle of the femur. It ex- tends as a septum of muscle from the inner surface of the femur, dividing the inner mass of the thigh into an anterior and a posterior plane, the respective surfaces of the muscle forming the floor of each. It presents openings close to its femoral attachment: three or four proximal ones for the per- forating arteries from the profunda femoris (page 117) ; and a large distal opening—the femoral—for the femoral artery and vein (page 118).