20 TRUNK. 21. Cms of the Penis, Plate 7, and Fig. 3, Plate 8.—This is attached to the free surface of the pubic arch ; it extends anteriorly, and internally, upon the exterior of the descend- in^ ramus and body of the os pubis. At the median line, exte- rior to the symphysis pubis, the right and left cms unite to form the corpora cavernosa of the penis, which are the superior longitudinal cylinders of that organ. Dissection.-Hook the bulb of the corpus spongiosum internally and clear the surface of the triangular ligament, respecting vessels and nerves, which perforate the same. 22. Triangular Ligament, Fig. 1, Plate 8.—This ligament is a triangular sheet of dense fibrous tissue, attached to the rami of the pubic arch (see Bone Areas, p. 14). It occupies a plane interior to the muscles, described above, the corpus spongiosum and the crura of the penis. Its base has an at- tachment to the tendinous centre of the perineum, and with the perineal and levator fasciae forms the bis-ischiatic fascial junction. It is pierced, near its base, externally, at times, by the superficial perineal artery, internally, by the artery of the bulb ; toward its apex, by the deep perineal artery or its terminal branches ; and by the dorsalis penis nerve and vein. Dissection.-Cut one of the crura, from its attachment to the pubic arch, and hook it internally across the corpus spongiosum, then clear the vessels and nerve, that come through the triangular ligament. 23. Artery to tlae Corpus Cavernosum, Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 8—This artery (vena comes) is the largest branch of bifur- cation of the deep perineal; it divides into branches, which en- ter the deep surface of the crus of the corpus cavernosum. 24. Deep Dorsalis Penis Artery.—This artery is the smaller branch of bifurcation of the deep perineal; it passes, anteri- orly, between the crus of the corpus cavernosum and the body of the os pubis. 25. Deep I>orsalis Penis Nerve.—This nerve is a continua- tion of the deep perineal nerve, exterior to the triangular liga- ment ; it accompanies the artery of the same name. 26. Deep Dorsal Vein of the Penis.—The lateral surface of this vein presents, running internal to, and parallel with, the