UPPER EXTREMITY. 314 Dissection.—Section the outer and the inner lateral ligaments of the elbow- joint (Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 175). Clear the surfaces of the radio-ulnar interos- seous and the oblique ligaments of the middle radio-ulnar articulation. 2. Radio-ulnar Interosseous Ligament, Plates 134 and 169. —This ligament bridges the distal three-quarters of the interos- seous space between the ulna and the radius, from the inner border of the shaft of the radius to the outer border of the shaft of the ulna, The fibres of the ligament have a distal and oblique course, from the radius to the ulna. 3. Oblique Ligament, Fig. 1, Plate 174; Fig. 1, Plate 175. —This ligament bridges from the ulna to the radius afc the proximal limit of the last-described ligament. It passes ob- liquely from the outer side of the coronoid process of the ulna to the inner side of the radius, distal to its tubercle. 4. Distal Radio-ulnar Articulation, Plates 171 and 172 ; Fig. 1, Plate 173.—The distal ends of the radius and ulna are bound to each other by a posterior and an anterior ligament, which allow and limit the partial rotation of the radius about the immovable ulna. When the radius rolls to the anterior of the ulna it is called pronation ; when it returns to the outer side of, and parallel with, the ulna, it is called supination. These motions are participated in by the hand, because of the independence of the radio-carpal articulation of the ulna. The bones of this articulation present as follows : the radius, a groove upon the inner surface of its distal end ; the ulna, a rounded border at the outer and anterior surfaces of its dis- tal end. The posterior radio-ulnar ligament (Plate 172) which limits pronation, is attached : at its outer end, to the posterior border of the articulating groove of the radius ; at its inner end, to the posterior surfaces of the distal end, and the styloid process, of the ulna. It is also attached to the posterior border of the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the wrist-joint (page 312). The anterior radio-ulnar ligament (Plate 171, and Fig. 1, Plate 173), which limits supination, is attached : at its outer end, to the anterior border of the articulating groove of the radius ; at its inner end, to the anterior surface of the inner portion of the distal end of the ulna, and to the anterior border of the inter- articular fibro-cartilage of the wrist-joint.