igg LOWER EXTREMITY. its proximal limit. It receives the external saphenous vein (Plates 85 and 86) and the vena} eomites of the branches of the popliteal artery. It leaves the popliteal space, at its proximal limit, by the femoral opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus muscle (page 118 ; Plates 64 and 65); at the latter opening it lies to the outer side of the popliteal artery. DissECTioN.-Section the veins tributary to the popliteal vein, and cut them away. Eaise and hook aside the vein from the popliteal artery. 28. popliteal Artery, Plates 86, 87, 88, and 90.-This artery (vena comes) has a longitudinal and oblique course through the popliteal space, in a plane anterior to the popliteal vein ; it enters the space at the femoral opening in the adductor magnus muscle (page 118 ; Plates 64 and 65) ; it lies upon the posterior surface of the distal end of the shaft of the femur, the exterior surface of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the posterior surface of the popliteus muscle. 29. Muscle Brandies of tne Popliteal Artery.—Superior and inferior muscle branches are supplied by the pophtea artery the superior to the muscles bordering the proximal half of the popliteal space ; the inferior to the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, and the soleus muscles. 30. Superior Internal and External Artieular Arteries - These arteries (ven» eomites) are lateral branches from the proximal portion of the popliteal; they wind.around the sides of the femur to contribute to the peri-articular plexuses ot arteries, at the antero-lateral areas of the knee. DissECTiON.-Clear the superficies of the portions of the muscles and ten- dons in the distal part of the dissection area. 31. Soleus Muscle, Plate 85,-This muscle presents at the sides of the gastrocnemius muscle ; at its distal end its tendon forms the greater part of the tendo Achillis. 32. Tendon of tne Plantaris Muscle.-This tendon runs along the inner border of the tendo Achillis. 33. Peroneus tongns and Peroneus Brevis Muscles, Plates 85 and 87.-The posterior surface of these muscles present