MALE PELVIC VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. 99 (pages 20 and 19); the crura converge over the bulb of the cor- pus spongiosum and meet at the median line to form the dorsal longitudinal cylinders of the penis ; the corpora have an invest- ing fibrous capsule and are separated by a fibrous septum. The corpus spongiosum (page 19 ; Plates 8 to 12 inclusive) presents three sections: the bulb, the body, and the glans. The bulb is lodged between the crura of the corpora cavernosa ; the body continues forward inferior to the corpora cavernosa as far as the free ends of the latter ; the glans is its expansion, capping the ends of the corpora cavernosa. Dissection.—A testis, with the scrotal portion of the spermatic cord, should be laid upon a dissecting board and pinned thereto—one pin through the body of the testis, another through the proximal end of the outstretched spermatic cord. Section the sheath (internal spermatic or infnndibuliform fascia), in- vesting the cord, and reflect the same. Open the tunica vaginalis of the testis and reflect it; recognize the testis, the epididymis, the vas deferens, the vas aberrans, the artery of the vas deferens, the spermatic artery, the spermatic veins, the spermatic nerves (sympathetic); the latter are continued to the testis upon the artery. 19. Internal Spermatic Fascia, Fig. 3, Plate 56.—This sheath of the spermatic cord and the testis (page 54) is con- tinued as an infundibuliform (funnel spout) prolongation of the transversalis fascia ; it blends with the tunica vaginalis of the testis. It occupies a plane interior to the cremasteric mus- cle fibres of the spermatic cord (page 50). 20. Tunica Vaginalis.—This is the serous investment of the testis. It is a closed sac, which is applied to the antero- lateral surfaces of the testis ; it has a visceral and a parietal layer. It, originally, was a portion of the peritoneum, which descended from the abdominal cavity with the testis ; at first it has a canal of communication (the canal of Nuck) with the cavity of the peritoneum ; later the canal becomes obliterated into a fibrous thread. 21. Testes.—A testis is an ovoid body, weighing from four to eight drachms and suspended from the end of the spermatic cord. It is partially invested by the tunica vaginalis ; its pos- terior surface (in the illustration the accidental position of the testis would make it appear, that it was the superior surface), not invested by the tunica vaginalis, presents the hilus of the