202 UPPER EXTREMITY. side of the anterior of the distal end of the humerus ; it con- tinues into the forearm upon the inner portion of the anterior of the elbow. 4§. Axillary Vein, Plates 117 and 118.—This vein runs through the axilla, inferiorly to the axillary artery and the nerves of the axillary portion of the brachial plexus. It is formed by the confluence of the basilic vein and the venae comites of the brachial artery ; it receives the vense comites of the branches of the axillary artery. 49. Median Nerve.—This nerve, before spoken of (page 198), can be traced from the arm into the axilla, where it is seen to divide into two branches, called legs; the latter pass, respectively, to the outer and inner sides of the axillary artery. At its distal end the nerve gives off branches to muscles of the forearm. 50. Ulnar Nerve.—This nerve can be followed in a proxi- mal direction to the external border of the pectoralis minor muscle, inferiorly to, and to the inner side of, the axillary artery; it is given off from the inner cord of the axillary portion of the brachial plexus, which bifurcates into the ulnar nerve and the inner leg of the median nerve. The nerve is continued into the arm, posteriorly to the axillary and brachial arteries; m the proximal third of the arm it diverges from the brachial artery, to be continued upon the inner surface of the long and inner heads of the triceps muscle (Plates 118 and 119), in a direction toward the inner condyle of the humerus. 51. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve.-This nerve can be traced internally, inferiorly to the last-described nerve, to where it disappears, posteriorly to the pectoralis minor muscle. 52. Small Internal Cutaneous Nerve. -This nerve may be followed into the axilla, parallel with, and inferiorly to, the last-described nerves. 53. Intercosto-Humeral Nerve.—This nerve may now be demonstrated as formed by the lateral cutaneous branch ot the second intercostal nerve and an anastomotic branch from the small internal cutaneous nerve. J