HEAD ATNTD NECK. 342 root). Anteriorly, from it, a variable number of branches (very- delicate) are given off—the short ciliary nerves—which pass to enter the posterior surface of the eyeball (Plate 186, left orbit, shows two of the larger of these nerves). 14. Oculomotor Nerve, Plates 185 and 186.—This nerve, the third cranial, leaves the interior of the dura mater (page 325); it is continued, anteriorly, externally to the cavernous sinus, and is projected from the cranium into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. Its intra-orbital portion passes between the posterior attachments of the rectus externus muscle. A supe- rior branch supplies the rectus superior and the levator palpe- bral superioris muscles. Its inferior branch gives off the motor root of the ophthalmic ganglion, and continues to its disap- pearance inferiorly to the optic nerve (Plate 186, left orbit). 15. Nasal Nerve and its Branches, Plates 185 and 186 (left orbits).—This nerve, a branch of the ophthalmic division of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve (Plate 185, left orbit), is pro- jected, anteriorly into the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure. Its intra-orbital portion passes between the posterior attach- ments of the rectus externus muscle ; and crosses, internally, be- tween the ophthalmic artery and the optic nerve. Its branches are: the sensory root of the ophthalmic ganglion, which runs, anteriorly, to the ganglion, externally to the optic nerve. As it crosses between the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery, it gives off the long ciliary nerves, which run parallel with, and superiorly to, the optic nerve, to enter the posterior of the eye- ball. At the internal side of the orbit it gives off the infra- trochlear branch, which is projected, anteriorly, to its emer- gence, in the superficial region of the face (page 337 ; Plate 184), inferiorly to the trochlea of the obliquus superior muscle. The nasal nerve leaves the orbit by the anterior ethmoidal foramen, by which it enters the cranium; its intra-cranial portion runs, anteriorly, upon the superior surface of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone (Plate 186), to the point where it passes out of the cranium, at the side of the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, into a nasal cavity. 16. Ophthalmic Artery and its Branches, Plates 180, 185, and 186.—This artery, a branch of the internal carotid (page 326 ; Plate 180) passes, with the optic nerve, from the cranial