256 TRUNK. mass. The right superior lobe is conical in shape, with a sharp apex, superiorly, and a well-marked curved fissure, inferiorly. The middle lobe is an oblong portion of the right lung, located at the inferior portion of the anterior face of the organ ; it does not include the whole antero-posterior thickness of the lung, but is located inferiorly to the superior lobe, and is appended from the anterior face of the inferior lobe ; it is bounded, supe- riorly, externally, and inferiorly, by fissures that isolate it from the superior and inferior lobes. The right inferior lobe presents but a small portion anteriorly ; its inferior surface is moulded to the superior face of the right half of the dia- phragm. The left superior lobe is a conical-shaped portion which forms the anterior face of the lung. Opposite the mid- dle lobe of the right lung, the antero-internal border of the left lung is deeply notched, thereby forming an inferior tongue of lung tissue, which is projected to the right, This deficiency of the antero-internal border of the left lung is for the exposure of the heart, where it applies itself, with only the parietal por- tion of the pericardium intervening, against the thoracic wall. The left inferior lobe is applied to the superior surface of the left half of the diaphragm. Dissection.—Turn the lungs upon the dissecting board, with their pos- terior surface uppermost. 3. Posterior Surface of tlie Idlings, Fig. 2, Plate 143.— This face of these organs presents them united by the bifur- cated trachea. The posterior of each lung presents two lobes: a superior and an inferior. Of the right lung: the superior lobe is conical in shape with its apex directed superiorly ; the inferior lobe is also conical in shape, with its apex applied to the surface of the superior lobe ; adapted as the inferior sur- face of this lobe is to the superior surface of the diaphragm, its postero-inferior border presents a sharp edge for lodgement, between the diaphragm and the pariet.es of the thorax, supe- riorly to the postero-inferior attachments of the diaphragm. Of the left lung: the superior lobe is conical like the right, larger, and more rounded at its apex; the inferior lobe has the shape of the right, but it is smaller than it ; it has a similar inferior surface and postero-inferior border, for adaptation to the superior surface of the diaphragm.