144 LOWER EXTREMITY. interosseous and the transversa pedis nerves ; the two latter nerves are in turn given off from the deep branch of the external plantar nerve. Find the nerves to the first plantar and the third dorsal interosseous muscles. Follow the deep branch of the external plantar nerve, and the external plantar artery, into the metatarsal region. 48. Tendinous Slip between the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis and the Initial Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum Muscles.—At the crossing of these tendons (Plates 79 and 80) a tendinous slip passes from the pollicis to the digi- torum tendon. 49. Nerve to the Fourth Lumbricalis Muscle, Plate 81, and Fig. 1, Plate 82.—In reflecting this muscle its nerve will be seen to enter its dorsal surface; the same may be traced to where it is given off from the nerve to the second plantar in- terosseous muscle. 50. Nerve to the Second Plantar Interosseous Muscle, Plates 79, 81, and Fig. 1, Plate 82.—This is the third nerve given off from the deep branch of the external plantar nerve. 51. Nerve to the Third Eumbricalis Muscle, Plate 81, and Fig. 1, Plate 82.—As the muscle is reflected this nerve is seen to enter its dorsal surface ; it can be followed to its origin from the nerve to the transversus pedis muscle. 52 Nerve to the Transversus Pedis Muscle, and its Branches to the First Plantar and the Third Dorsal Interos- seous Muscles.—The nerve to the transversus pedis muscle— from the deep branch of the external plantar—enters its proxi- mal side. It gives a branch to either side: the inner to the first plantar interosseous muscle ; the outer to the third dorsal interosseous muscle. 53. Deep Branch of the External Plantar Nerve, Plate 81.—After having given off the nerve to the transversus pedis muscle, this branch is continued, at the outer border of the ad- ductor pollicis muscle, to the dorsal surface of the latter muscle. 54. External Plantar Artery.—This artery curves toward the inner side of the metatarsal region of the foot, accompany- ing the last-described nerve branch. Dissection.—Expose the tarsal grooves for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle and the initial tendon of the flexor longus digitorum