104 TRUNK. 11 Ovary —This almond-shaped body is swung free from the posterior face of the posterior layer of the broad ligament; it is attached thereto by its long axis. An ovary is about one inch and a quarter long, three-quarters of an inch wide and half an inch thick ; it weighs about four scruples. Its arteries and nerves reach it, and its veins and lymphatics leave it by the slit, seen at the anterior face of the posterior layer of the broad ligament (page 102 ; Fig. 1, Plate 57). 12 VaSina.-This canal, about four inches long, has an exterior fibrous, a middle muscular, and an interior mucous oT Its free end, which is its narrowest point, a ver- tical fissure or opening at the pudendum frag? *» and 41 Plates 19 and 20); at its middle, which is its widest pait, its SSiSeatanuL is the longest; at its attached « uterine end it is almost circular, receiving into its opening the neck of he u erus ; the walls of the vagina (page 41) are m.ppo«tajo. Slitting open the vagina along its postero-infeno wall (F g. 2 Plate 57), it presents an antero-supenor and a posteio-mfeiior mid line ridge of its mucous membrane-the columns of the vaSna ; between these columns the lateral halves of the mucous membrane bridge, forming ruga, ; these ruga, -e ^st marked at the pudendal end of the canal, and become less and less so toward its uterine end. 13 uterns.-The uterus is a cylindrical body, constricted at its middle, and somewhat flattened antero-posteriorly ; it weighs about ten drachms, and measures two inches and a halt long, one inch and a half wide, and one inch thick; its supe- rior end, the fundus, is globular and larger than its inferior. The inferior end is projected into the superior opening of the vagina, the latter being attached to the circumference of the former The uterus is a hollow organ, the canals ot the * allo- xan tubes open into the cavity of it, body, the latter in o the cavity of its neck, and the cavity of the neck of the uterus opens, at the external os, into the vaginal canal. It is about equally divided into a body and neck portion. From the lateral borders of the body, the Fallopian tubes, the ovarian the round and the broad ligaments are projected as before shown (pages 102 and 103). The inferior portion of the neck project into the vagina, where it presents a short anterior and