336 HEAD AND NECK. teriorly to them. Demonstrate the conjunctival sacs—superior and inferior ; and the puncta lachrymalia—superior and inferior. Slit open the latter and expose the lachrymal canals—superior and inferior—and the lachrymal sac; pass a probe into the nasal duct. 31. Corrugator Supercilii Muscle.—This muscle is attached: internally, to the external surface of the internal angular pro- cess of the frontal bone ; externally, to the skin of the internal half of the eyebrow. 32. —Palpebral ligament and the Tarsi of the Eyelids, Plate 184.—The palpebral ligament is a fibrous membrane, which is attached to the osseous rim of the orbital aperture, and the tarsi of the eyelids ; it closes in the orbital cavity. The tarsi (formerly described as tarsal cartilages) are dense fibrous tissue plates (a superior and an inferior), which con- tinue the palpebral ligament into the eyelids. They give the lids shape and form their framework—the superior one is the larger of the two. From the internal and external angles of the palpebral slit, special fibres of the palpebral ligament form the, so-called, internal and external tarsal ligaments. 33. Conjunctiva and its Sacs, Fig. 1, Plate 184.—This is a layer of mucous membrane, continuous with the skin at the border of the eyelids, which lines the posterior surfaces of the tarsi of the latter and is reflected, circumferentially, from the tarsi to the anterior face of the globe of the eye. This re- flection forms a superior and an inferior conjunctival sac. At the external part of the superior sac the orifices of the ducts from the lachrymal gland open. 34. Lachrymal Puncta, Lachrymal Canals, Lachrymal Sac, and Masai Duct.—Near the internal angle of the palpe- bral aperture, an opening presents at the border of either eye- lid— lachrymM puncta; these open into small canals, lach- rymal canals, which continue, internally, to the lachrymal sac; the latter is lodged in the lachrymal groove at the orbital face of the lachrymal bone. From it a canal, the nasal duct, passes, inferiorly and a little posteriorly, to open into the in- ferior meatus of the nostril. Dissection.—Open the superior portion of the palpebral ligament and ex- pose (Fig. 2, Plate 184): the supra-orbital artery and nerve; the frontal