VISCERA OF THE THORAX OUT OF THE BODY. 263 superior angles, respectively, of the cavity. The left side of the inter auricular septum presents the left side of the fossa ovalis. At the floor of the cavity is the left auriculo-ventricu- lar orifice—-for egress of blood—into the cavity of the left ventricle. Dissection.—Close over the flaps of the left auricle. Cut into the cavity of the left ventricle, along the section lines upon its exterior (Fig. 1, Plate 144). Enter the cavity at the apex, then continue the diverging cuts toward the base of the organ : the right one as far as the bases of the papillse, which receive the chordae tendinse of the anterior cusp of the mitral valve ; the left one is con- tinued out through the wall of the aorta (in making this cut turn aside the appendix of the left auricle). Hold off the flap of the ventricular wall by loops of thread. 23. Interior of the Cavity of the L,eft Ventricle, Fig. 2,. Plate 146.—The wall of this cavity is very much thicker than that of the right ventricle. Its interior presents : a lining of endocardium (thicker than that of the right ventricle); the left side of the interventricular septum; well-marked columnce cameos, more numerous and more prominent than those of the right ventricle (page 262); musculi papillares which are much larger than those of the right ventricle; the left auriculo-ventricular orifice—-for entrance of blood from the left auricle ; the aortic orifice—for exit of blood into the aorta. 24. Mitral (Bicuspid) Valve.—This valve has an anterior (right) cusp and a posterior (left) cusp, which are attached to the ventricular face of the border of the left auriculo-ventricular orifice. These cusps—reduplications of the endocardium- hang in the cavity of the ventricle ; from their free edges • chordm tendino3 are projected, which are attached to the mus- culipapillares at the interior of the cavity. 25. Aortic Orifice.—This orifice is furnished with three valves, aortic semilunar, which are, respectively, anterior, right posterior, and left posterior. They are constructed of fibrous tissue plates covered by reduplicated endocardium, and are at- tached to the circumference of the orifice. Their corpora Arantii and sinuses of Valsalva are the counterparts of those p the pulmonary semilunar valves (page 262). The sinuses