94 TRUNK. In shape, the organ is flattened antero-posteriorly, with a con- vex external border ; it has convex superior and inferior ends, which curve in at the internal border ; its internal border pre- sents a notch—the hilus—which lodges the pelvis of the organ, the supplying artery and nerves, and the outcoming veins and lymphatics ; these are bedded in interstitial adipose tissue. At the hilus (Figs. 2 and 4, Plate 54) the relations of parts are as follows : the renal vein is anterior, the ureter posterior, and the renal artery in the middle. In structure a kidney presents : a capsule ; a peripheral portion—the cortical substance ; an inte- rior portion—the medullary ; and an internal portion—the pel- vis. The capsule is a fibrous investment, which may be peeled oft2 and traced into the hilus, where it is continuous with the walls of the calices of the pelvis. The cortical substance is dense tissue without distinctive parts, to the unaided eye ; it is con- tinued into the medullary portion as the columns of Bertini. The medullary portion is made up of the pyramids of Mal- pighi—formed by the tubuli uriniferi—separated by the col- umns of Bertini—through which vessels and nerves run ; the bases of the pyramids are directed toward the cortical portion, their apices—presenting the orifices of the tubuli uriniferi—are the papilla? projected into the pelvis. The pelvis portion is a fibrous sac, with the following parts : the calices—at the bot- tom of the hilus—or the coves, so to speak, between the prom- ontories of the papilla? of the pyramids ; the infundibula— superior, middle, and inferior—or bays into which the calices empty ; and the pelvis proper or lake-like expansion of the in- fundibula, whose outlet is the ureter or duct of the organ. 25. Renal Veins, Plate 38, and Figs. 2 and 4, Plate 54.— A renal vein, after being formed by several vessels that leave the hilus, empties into the vena cava inferior ; of the renal veins the left is the longer of the two. 26. Renal Artery.—This artery enters the kidney at the hilus ; it breaks up into branches, which pass to the cortical substance, through the columns of Bertini. 27. Renal Nerves, Plate 33.—These nerves, derived from the renal plexus of the sympathetic nerve, enter the kidney upon the renal artery, and its branches.