350 HEAD AKD NECK. face of the neck of the condyloid process of the inferior max* illary bone to the zygoma of the squamous portion of the temporal bone; the capsular (Plates 187 and 190), from the border of the articular surface of the condyloid process to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and, intermediately, to the circumference of the interarticular fibro-cartilage (Fig. 2, Plate 188) ; the internal lateral (Plate 187 ; Fig. 1, Plate 188 ; Plate 190), which passes from the internal border of the infer- ior dental foramen (at the internal surface of the ramus) to the spine of the sphenoid bone (Plate 199)—it is located internally to : the posterior end of the external pterygoid muscle, the auriculotemporal nerve, the internal maxillary, middle menin- geal, and inferior dental arteries, and the inferior dental nerve; the stylo-maxillary (Plate 190), from the posterior border of the inferior portion of the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone to the styloid process of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The interarticular fibro-cartilage (Fig. 2, Plate 188), is lodged between the articular surfaces of the articulation and determines a superior and an inferior cavity to the joint. The articular cartilage and synovial membrane are dis- posed as with movable joints in general (page 11). 6. External Pterygoid Muscle, Plate 187; Fig. 2, Plate 188 ; Plates 190 and 199.—This muscle, having a superior and an inferior portion, has an antero-posterior course. Its supe- rior portion is attached : anteriorly, to the exterior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone (Plate 190); posteriorly, to the internal border of the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxillary articulation (Fig. 2, Plate 188). Its inferior portion is attached: anteriorly, to the external sur- face of the external plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone ; posteriorly, to the internal surface of the neck of the condyloid process of the inferior maxillary bone (Plate 199). Dissection.—Dissect away the external pterygoid muscle from its anterior attachments; find and preserve its nerve. Remove a portion of adipose tissue from the external surface of, and superiorly to, the internal pterygoid muscle. Trace (Fig. 1, Plate 188) the deep temporal (anterior and posterior), buccal, masseteric, external pterygoid, auriculo-tempoial, inferior dental, and gusta- tory nerves to their origin from the inferior maxillary division of the sensory