48 TRUNK. internally. The latter portion of the muscle forms an aponeu- rosis at the anterior area of the abdomen, which continues as a single plane to the linea alba, from the sternum to the sym- physis pubis. Superiorly, the pectoralis major muscle—its in- ferior portion—is attached to the exterior of the aponeurosis. The inferior edge of the aponeurosis bridges from the an- terior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis, forming Poupart's ligament ; it is also attached to the linea ilio-pectinea—on the superior surface of the horizon- tal ramus of the os pubis—external to the spine of the - pu- bis, forming Gimbernat's ligament. External and supe or to the pubic attachment to the spine of the pubis, a deficiency presents in the aponeurosis—a slit-like opening—the pubic (external) abdominal ring. This opening has a superior and an internal border, and an inferior and external border, known as the pillars of the ring. A little superior and internal to the pubic ring the aponeurosis is perforated by the ilio-hypogastric nerve (Plate 23). 16. External Spermatic (Intercolumnar) Fascia.— From the pillars or borders of the pubic (external) abdominal ring, the superficial fascia upon the exterior of the obliquus externus muscle projects this fascial investiture upon the spermatic cord (male) or round ligament of the uterus (female). Dissection.—Incise and open the external spermatic fascia upon the cord, exposing the subjacent investiture of the same. 17. Spermatic Cord (male) or Round Ligament of the Uterus (female).—The cord or ligament with its investments passes through the pubic (external) abdominal ring, also the ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection.—Incise the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus (Plate 24) by the median-line and bis-iliac incisions (2 and 3, Figure 3; page 43) ; reflect an inguinal flap of the same (Plate 25). 18. Pubic (External) Abdominal Ring, Plate 25.— The inte- rior surface of this so-called ring shows its true character, viz : a splitting or separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus. The pillars of the ring are well de- fined upon this surface.