OEBITAL CAVITY. 341 cle ; then it is projected posteriorly, between the posterior at- tachments of the rectus externus muscle, and through the inferior portion of the sphenoidal fissure, to empty into the cavernous sinus (Plate 180). In its intra-orbital course it re- ceives the comites veins of all the branches of the ophthalmic artery. Dissection.—Section (Plate 185, left side) the ophthalmic division of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve and its nasal branch, also, the rectus superior and obliquus superior muscles. Dissect away the portions of the nerve and mus- cles included between the sections of them. Section (Plate 185, left orbit) the intra-orbital fibrous ring : reflect the internal portion of the ring with the pos- terior attachments of the levator palpebrse superioris and obliquus superior mus- cles ; dissect away the external portion, carrying, externally, the superior attach- ment of the rectus externus muscle (Plate 186, left orbit). Eemove the ophthalmic vein, antero-posteriorly. Trace the abducent nerve from its intra- cranial stump to its point of entrance into the rectus externus muscle (Plate 186, left side). Find the ophthalmic ganglion—by cutting away a portion of the branch of the ophthalmic artery to the rectus externus muscle—bedded in fat, between the rectus externus muscle and the optic nerve (Plate 186, left orbit) ; trace its motor root (to the oculomotor nerve), its sensory root (to the nasal nerve), and its anterior branches. Follow (Plate 186, left orbit) the ocu- lomotor nerve from the cranium into the orbit; find and trace its superior branch; also its inferior branch, to the point where it disappears. Track (Plate 186, left orbit) the nasal nerve and its branches, also the ophthalmic artery and its branches. Display the optic nerve from the cranium to its en- trance into the eyeball (Plate 186, left side). Clear (Plate 186, left orbit), partially, the superior surfaces of the rectus externus and rectus internus mus- cles. 12. Abducent Xcrve, Plates 185 and 186.—This nerve, the sixth cranial, perforates the dura mater (page 325 ; Plate 180), to run inferiorly to the cavernous sinus, and the ophthalmic division of the sensory root of the trifacial nerve (Plate 185, left side); it finally passes from the cranium into the orbit, by the sphenoidal fissure. Its intra-orbital course is, between the posterior attachments of the rectus externus muscle, directly to the internal surface of that muscle. 13. Ophthalmic Qanglion, Plate 186 (left orbit).—This ganglion is bedded in adipose tissue, internally to the pos- terior portion of the rectus externus muscle. It presents as a bead-like, shining, reddish body. From it a short branch can be traced to the inferior branch of the oculomotor nerve (motor root), and a second, longer one, to the nasal nerve (sensory