114 LOWER EXTREMITY. course as the artery ; at first it lies posterior to and then passes to the outer side of the artery, where it lies against the vastus internus muscle. The internal saphenous nerve accompanies the femoral vessels through the canal, upon the anterior and outer surface of the femoral artery ; it leaves the artery at its distal end, anterior to the adductor magnus muscle, to join the internal saphenous vein, at the distal side of the knee. Dissection.—Expose the profunda femoris artery and its vein, at the proxi- mal side of the adductor longus muscle, in a plane posterior to the femoral vessels. Note how this artery and vein pass posterior to the adductor lon- gus muscle. Cut away the vense comites of the profunda femoris artery and its branches. 27. Profunda Femoris Artery—This artery (vena conies) is a branch from the posterior surface of the femoral artery, at a variable point in the course of the latter through Scarpa's triangle. It takes a distal course in a plane posterior to its parent trunk, having its vein to its inner side ; it passes to the plane posterior to the adductor longus muscle. Its branches are the external circumflex, the internal circumflex, and the three perforating. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the vastus externus, the crureus, and the vastus internus muscles, respecting, in so doing, the nerves and arteries, which enter their proximal portions. Trace the muscle branches of the anterior crural nerve and the distribution of the external circumflex artery ; trim away the venae comites of the arteries. 28. Vastus Extermis Muscle, Plate 59, Fig. 1, Plate 93, and Plates 61 to G3 inclusive.—The anterior surface of this muscle was before referred to (page 111) ; it is now fully exposed (Plate 63). It is attached to the femur, from a point posterior to and distal from the trochanter major, to the entire length of the outer lip of the linea aspera down to the external condyle ; it winds around the outer surface of the shaft of the femur, having an anterior free border ; it blends, at its distal end, with the tendon of the rectus femoris. 29. Crureus Muscle, Plates 59 and 63.—This is the an- terior, deep, straight muscle of the thigh ; it is attached to the proximal two-thirds of the anterior surface of the shaft of the femur ; at its distal end, it blends with the tendon of the rectus femoris.