ARTICULATIONS OF HAND. 311 6. Intercarpal Articulations—These are formed by the ap- position of the distal row of carpal bones, of the proximal row of carpal bones, and of the two articulated rows with each 0ther—medio-carpal articulation. The distal row—trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform—are bound to each other by three palmar and three dorsal transverse ligaments. The 'proximal row—scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform—are held in apposition by two palmar and two dorsal transverse lig- aments. The medio-carpal articulation has palmar and dorsal ligaments passing between the distal and proximal rows of bones. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the articulation of the carpus with the distal ends of 'the radius and ulna. Section the inner lateral, the inner por- tions of the anterior and posterior radio-carpal ligaments (being careful to leave the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint in situ), and abduct the hand. 7. Articulation of the Carpus with the Radius and Ulna, Plates 121, 122, 163, 171, 172, and Fig. 1, Plate 173.—The ele- ments of this articulation are : bones, ligaments, an interartic- ular fibro-cartilage, and synovial membrane. The bones are : the scaphoid and semilunar, opposed to the radius—radio-carpal articulation ; the cuneiform opposite to, but separated by the interarticular fibro-cartilage from, the ulna (Fig. 1, Plate 173). The radius projects, in a distal direction, further than the ulna ; this projection, with the separation of the ulna from the carpus by the interarticular fibro-cartilage, render the motions of the hand independent of the ulna. The ligaments are four in number. The anterior radio- carpal (Plate 171), which has its proximal attachment to the anterior surface of the styloid process, and the anterior bor- der of the distal end, of the radius ; its fibres run obliquely, toward the inner side, to their distal attachments, to the ante- rior surfaces of the semilunar, the cuneiform, and the os mag- num bones of the carpus. The outer lateral (Plates 171, 172, and Fig. 1, Plate 173) passes from the styloid process of the radius to the scaphoid bone of the carpus. The inner lateral (Plates 171 and 172) bridges from the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform and pisiform bones of the carpus ; its distal end has an anterior, a posterior, and a middle slip, which are attached, respectively, to the anterior and posterior sur-