TRUNK. 38 33. Artery of tne Bulb, Fig. 3, Plate 16.—This artery (vena comes), is a branch of the deep perineal, as it lies (in the female) in a deeper plane. It perforates the constrictor urethrse, as well as the triangular ligament, to reach its distribution. This branch, in turn, gives off the artery to the mdvo-vaginal gland. 34. The Deep Perineal Artery and Sferve.—These perfor- ate the constrictor urethrse muscle from an interior plane. Dissection—Clear the subjacent muscles of the urethrovaginal region. 35. ©eep Transversus Perinsei Muscle,—See Male Perine- um, page 21. 36. Constrictor Urethra? Muscle.—See Male Perineum, page 22. Its external attachment is as in the male ; the anterior portion bridges from one ramus to the other, as a fold of mus- cle anterior to the urethral canal; a second portion converges to the urethral canal at the meatus, and to the vaginal wall. Dissection.—Eemove the remaining sutures from the posterior portion of the labia majora. Find the orifice of the duct of the vulvo-vaginal gland upon the internal surface of the posterior half of the labium majus, and pass a fine probe into it; then track the probe to the gland, which in turn may be exposed by cutting away a portion of the deep transversus perinsei muscle. 37. Vulvo-vaginal Glands.—These glands External ge- nitalia, page 29) are the analogues of Cowper's glands of the male. A gland (the size of a small white bean) is located in the plane between the deep transversus perinsei muscle and the levator fascia (page 39), externally to the posterior ex- tremity of the bulb of the vagina ; its duct passes, internally, to its opening at the internal surface of the posterior half of a labium majus, exteriorly to the orifice of the vagina. Dissection.—Section and reflect a flap of the gluteus maximus muscle, as in the dissection of the male perineum, see page 22. 38. Great Sacro-Sciatic Ligament.—See Male Perineum, page 22. 39. Fourth Sacral Nerve.—See Male Perineum, page 22. Dissection.—Section the fibres of the deep transversi perinsei and con- strictores urethrse muscles, and reflect them to the urethra and vagina, inter- nally, and the pubic arch, externally. Preserve the attached portions of the