37 FEMALE PEBLTSTEUM. 28. Sphincter Vaginae Muscles, Plate 14.—The anterior tendinous ends of these muscles wind over the external sur- faces of the corpora cavernosa of the clitoris, for attachment to the dorsum of that organ. 29. Elastic Suspensory Ligament and Elastic Sheath of the Clitoris, Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 16.—This triangular, elastic- tissue ligament is attached to the symphysis pubis, from which it suspends the clitoris ; it is continued upon it as an elastic sheath. Dissection.—Make a dorsal, median-line, incision through the elastic sheath of the clitoris. Eeflect lateral flaps of the same, exposing the deep dorsalis clitoridis arteries, vein, and nerves. Trace these vessels and nerves to the base of the organ. 30. Deep I>orsalis Clitoridis Artery.—This artery emerges upon the dorsum of the clitoris, by a lateral opening in the base of the suspensory ligament; it is lodged between the elastic sheath and a corpus cavernosum of the organ. 31. Deep Dorsalis Clitoridis Vein.—This single vein is lodged in the furrow between the corpora cavernosa ; it leaves the dorsum of the clitoris by a middle opening in the base of its suspensory ligament. 32. Deep Dorsalis Clitoridis Nerve.—A deep nerve reaches the dorsum of one side of the clitoris, by the same lateral open- ing in the base of the suspensory ligament as does an artery ; it advances upon a corpus cavernosum, parallel with the artery, to distribute to its glans and prepuce. Dissection.—Detach the suspensory ligament and cut the vessels and nerves as they enter its base ; cut away the clitoris and bulb of the vagina. Eeplace the stumps of the deep vessels and nerves of the clitoris upon the exterior of the ossa pubis (Fig. 3, Plate 16). Make transverse sections of the clitoris and compare its structure with that of the penis, of which it is the analogue, viz. : the cylinders of the corpora cavernosa; and the vessels and tissue occupying the place of the corpus spongiosum and glans of the male penis (page 98 ; Fig. 2, Plate 56). Section the triangular ligament, as the perineal fascia was sectioned (Plate 13) ; reflect a flap posteriorly, which should preserve its junc- tion with the perineal fascia and the tendinous centre of the perineum (Fig. 3, Plate 16); reflect the other two flaps to the pubic arch and the vaginal wall, respectively.