VISCERA OF THE THORAX OUT OF THE BODY. 253 8. Pericardium, Plate 142.—At the posterior surface of the heart the parietal portion of the pericardium (fibrous layer with interior serous layer) is reflected to the heart as its visceral portion (formed by the serous layer of the membrane) : along the superior border of the left auricle, superiorly ; upon the right and left pulmonary veins, laterally ; and upon the vena cava inferior, inferiorly. 9. Po§terior Surface of the Heart.—The portions of the heart that contribute to its posterior surface, when the organ is in its normal position, are: the greater part by the left ventricle surmounted by the left auricle; at the right border, a part of the right ventricle surmounted by a portion of the right auricle. 10. Vena Cava Inferior.—With the heart in its normal po- sition, this large venous trunk enters the posterior face of the | right auricle, at its inferior angle. 11. Pulmonary Veins.—These veins, two from each lung, converge, right and left, to open into the left auricle. Dissection. —Clear the posterior surfaces of the trachea, and of the right and left bronchi. Preserve the branches of the bronchial arteries, portions of the posterior pulmonary plexus or nerves therefrom, upon the bifurcation of the I trachea and the bronchi. Pull out, superiorly and to the right of the trachea, the vena cava superior ; note the stump of the vena azygos major at the poste- ■ rior surface of the vena cava superior. 12. Trachea and Right and L.eft Bronchi.—The trachea presents posteriorly to the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. It bifurcates into the right and left bronchi ; each of these, in turn, bifurcate, before they enter the right and left lungs. The posterior walls of these canals present their mem- branous portions ; anteriorly, and laterally, they are con- structed of incomplete cartilaginous rings united by fibrous tissue. 13. Bronchial Arterie§—Branches of these arteries, from the concavity of the arch of the aorta, ramify upon the bifur- cation of the trachea, and upon the bronchi ; they may be traced into the lungs, right and left, upon the bronchi. 14. Anterior and Po§terior Pulmonary Plexuses, and the Pulmonary Nerves.—These plexuses are contributed to by the