HEAD AND NECK. 366 pears internally to the latter, and passes anteriorly to the thyro-hyoid membrane, where it disappears, in company with the internal laryngeal artery (page 367 ; Plate 194), between the thyro-hyoid membrane and muscle. Inferiorly, the right pneumogastric nerve gives off the following branches: a cervical cardiac, which has an inferior and internal course, anteriorly to the first portion of the subclavian artery, to its disappear- ance into the interior of the thorax; a recurrent laryngeal (Plates 196 and 197), which is given off inferiorly to the first portion of the subclavian artery (page 242 ; Plate 138), and is continued, superiorly and internally, posteriorly to the sub- clavian and common carotid arteries. Dissection.—Clear (Plate 196) the anterior surfaces of the innominate ar- tery, and the trachea, preserving the right inferior thyroid vein, recurrent laryn- geal nerve, and branches of the inferior thyroid artery. Expose (Plate 196): the right common carotid artery to its bifurcation ; the first portion of the right subclavian artery and portions of its branches—vertebral, thyroid axis (with its branches), and internal mammary arteries. 37. Innominate Artery, Plates 196, 197, and 198.—The cer- vical portion of this artery is projected into the neck, supe- riorly and to the right, posteriorly to the right sterno-clavicular articulation. It bifurcates into the right common carotid and the right subclavian arteries. 3§. Might Common Carotid Artery, Plates 192 to 196, in- clusive.—This artery extends, superiorly, from the bifurcation of the innominate artery, parallel with, and internally to, the internal jugular vein (Plates 192 to 195, inclusive) and pneumo- gastric nerve (Plate 196). On a line with or a little superiorly to the superior border of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx, it bifurcates into the internal and external carotid arteries. Dissection.—Section (Plate 194) the right digastric and stylo-hyoid mus- cles ; reflect the anterior belly of the digastric muscle, anteriorly and superiorly, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the stylo-hyoid muscle, pos- teriorly. Clear (Plate 196) the superior end of the hypoglossal nerve, the inferior portion of the internal carotid artery, and the inferior part of the ex- ternal carotid artery with its branches—superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occip- ital, and posterior auricular. Expose (Plate 196) portions of : the middle con- strictor (of the pharynx), superior constrictor (of the pharynx), and stylo-glossus muscles; the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery; and the glosso- pharyngeal nerve.