TRUNK. 92 which receives the cystic duct from the gall-bladder ; beyond this the canal is called the ductus communis choledochus (pages 63, 67 and 87 ; Plates 35, 36 and 49). 19. Vena Cava Inferior.—This venous trunk impinges upon the liver in the fissure for the vena cava; it continues supe- riorly, to the area of the organ not covered by peritoneum, where it bridges from the liver to the caval opening of the diaphragm. 20. Hepatic Veins.—The hepatic veins emerge from the liver to empty into the vena cava inferior, in the bed of the fissure for the vena cava and the area at the superior border of the organ not invested by peritoneum. Dissection.—Dissect the gall-bladder free from the fissure, in which it is lodged; section the cystic duct close to the hepatic, also the cystic artery at the hepatic artery. Open the gall-bladder at its fundus, and slit it open to its duct. 21. Gall-Bladder.—This is a pyriform sac, the duct of which is more or less tortuous ; the latter may be straightened somewhat by dissecting off the areolar tissue, which invests it, Dissection.—-Remove any shreds of peritoneum from the spleen. Deter- mine the vessels of the spleen at its internal surface ; after which, it may be placed upon its convex external surface, with its posterior border toward the dissector; then holding the vessels on the stretch toward its posterior border, slice away the spleen tissue of the internal portion of the organ from the hilus to its anterior border, at a sufficient depth to expose the vessels that pene- trate the viscus. 22. Spleen, Plate 53.—This organ was located (page 66) and illustrated (Plates 35 and 36) in situ. It is somewhat oval in shape, convex and smooth upon its external sur- face, slightly concave upon its internal surface. It weighs from four to eight ounces. At its internal surface a vertical fissure—the hilus—divides it into two unequal portions, an anterior and a posterior : the anterior and larger area is ap- plied, in order from above downwards, to the stomach, the tail of the pancreas and the splenic flexure of the colon ; the posterior and smaller area impinges upon the left suprarenal capsule and kidney. At the hilus the splenic artery and nerves (sympathetic) enter the organ, and the splenic vein and lymphatic vessels leave it. The gastro-epiploica sinistra artery is given off to the stomach from the splenic artery,