411 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. carotid canals (Plate 186, right side); thence they run inter- nally, exteriorly to the dura mater, to the lateral surfaces of the body of the sphenoid bone ; at these points they are pro- jected, inferiorly, through the dura mater, and appear at the sides of the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone (Plate 180 ; Plate 185, right side). The branches of the intracranial portion of an internal ca- rotid artery are: the ophthalmic, before described (page 326) and illustrated (Plate 180); the anterior choroid, which en- ters the middle horn of a lateral ventricle (Fig. 2, Plate 218) to contribute to the choroid plexus ; the terminal end of the artery bifurcates. The middle cerebral artery, one of the branches of bifurcation, passes, from its origin, into the fissure of Sylvius ; its branches enter the pia mater upon the frontal, central, parietal, and temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the cerebrum, to supply these several lobes. The anterior cerebral artery, one of the branches of bifurcation, bends internally, and ante- riorly, to enter the longitudinal fissure, upon the inferior sur- face of the rostrum of the corpus callosum ; it then curves, superiorly, over the anterior reflection of the corpus callosum, to run, antero-posteriorly, upon the superior surface of the latter or the floor of the longitudinal fissure ; its branches enter the pia mater upon the internal and the inferior surfaces of the frontal lobe to distribute to these portions of the lobe. 5. Anterior and Po§terior Communicating Arteries.—The anterior communicating artery is a short, transverse trunk, by which the anterior cerebral arteries anastomose ; it is located at the posterior of the anterior portion of the longitudinal fissure upon the inferior surface of the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The posterior communicating arteries are two, short, ob- lique, vessels, that unite the internal carotid and the posterior cerebral arteries. 6. Circle of Wiiii§.—This is an arterial circuit at the centre of the inferior surface of the brain, which is formed by the fol- lowing arteries : anteriorly, the anterior communicating ; pos- teriorly, the bifurcation of the basilar ; a side of the circle presents, in order, antero-posteriorly, the anterior cerebral, the internal carotid, the posterior communicating, and the poste- rior cerebral ; this half circuit, repeated on the opposite side, completes the circle of Willis.