MALE PERINEUM. If) borders of a ramus of the pubic arch will be found three lines of fascial attachment, which determine three planes of muscle attachments. The lines are: to the exterior surface and free border, the perineal fascia ; to the interior free border and sur- face, the levator fascia (posterior layer of triangular ligament); to about the middle of the intervening surface between the borders, the triangular ligament (anterior layer). Between the perineal fascia and triangular ligament lines the cms penis or clitoridis and the ischio-cavernosus and superficial transversus perinsei muscles are attached. Between the triangular liga- ment and levator fascia lines are found the attachments of the deep transversus perinsei and constrictor urethrse muscles. In a plane interior to that of the levator fascia, and interior to the pubic ramus, the levator ani et prostatse (male) or the levator ani et vaginas (female) muscle presents. The osseous attach- ments of the compound levator muscle are to the interior sur- face of the body of the os pubis, anteriorly ; the spine of the ischium, laterally ; and the border of the coccyx near its apex, posteriorly. The coccygeus muscle is attached to the spine of the ischium and to the interior of the coccyx. The tip of the coccyx and its exterior surface afford attachment, resrjectively, to the sphincter ani and gluteus maximus muscles. Dissection.—Make the skin incisions marked 1, 2, and 3, Fig. 1, and re- flect flaps, laterally, beyond the tuberosities of the ischia, in which positions they may be fixed by thumb-pins. 1. Subcutaneous Tissue, Plate 6.—A plane of thick subcu- taneous tissue, containing more or less fat, underlies the skin : it is continuous with that on the thighs and buttocks. Dissection.—Clean the surface of the sphincter ani muscle, exposing its entire contour. 2. Sphincter Ani Muscle.—This muscle is in the subcuta- neous plane surrounding the anus. It forms an oval muscle mass attached posteriorly to the tip of the coccyx ; as it passes anteriorly it expands, by the divergence of its fibres, to sur- round the anus; it converges again in front of the anus, and terminates at the tendinous centre of the perineum. Dissection.—Incise the subcutaneous tissue on the median line, anterior to the anterior attachment of the sphincter ani muscle, down to a layer of fas- cia, the perineal; then diverge incisions along the external borders of the