g INTRODUCTION. 2); in this position, the knife shonld be steadied, by the little finger resting upon the surface, and driven by the index finger at its shank; it should be drawn as thus held, from the initial point to the terminus of the incision, the point only of the knife cuttmg the tissue. In reflecting flaps of skin, or other mem- branes (fascia, etc.), they should be commenced (Fig. 2, Plate 2) by pinching up the initial flap with the forceps, and incising the subcutaneous tissue so as to raise the skin alone; as soon as there is sufficient flap to enable it to be grasped, it should be held taut in the fingers (Fig. 3, Plate 2 at abou two Inches from its attached margin ; the scalpel should be held lightly w^th its blade flat on the subcutaneous tissue, its cutting edge at a right angle to the skin; in this position the strokes should be made in long sweeps never allow- ing the cutting edge to actually touch the skin. It is not a cutting that is effected, but a scratching with the edge of the knife which gto to,** fibrous framework of the subcutaneous tissue, thus allowing the skin to be raised from the surface beneath. Never cut away a portion of reflected skin, as it is the best possible protective covering to dissected parts. Subcutaneous Tissue.—The subcutaneous tissue is more or less loaded with fat, and has embedded in it vessels and nerves. In some regions it can be split into two layers, which may be designated as the superficial and the deep layer of the subcu- taneous tissue. This nomenclature avoids the confusion, which arises, if the subcutaneous tissue is called superficial fascia and its layers superficial and deep fascia, or superficial and deep layers of the superficial fascia. Subcutaneous Veins—The veins, found in the subcutaneous tissue, occupy a superficial plane, and are distinguished be- cause of the dark color, imparted to them by blood clot withm. DissECTiON.-The subcutaneous veins should be raised free from the tissue in which they are embedded, so as to lie loosely thereon. Subcutaneous Nerves.—The subcutaneous nerves lie in a plane beneath the veins, and, as a rule, contiguous to and par- allel with them. DKs™.-They may be found by scratching through the ™bcutoeons tissue at a right angle to the course of the nerves (Fig. i, Pla.o 2), thus the :X:'taneousgtissue8is displaced and the resistant ent; once recognized, at a given point, the nerve may be raised with the to cens and stripped out from its bedding with the point of the scalpel Fig. 5 Pla e 2) or wtth scissors. Having recognized the subcutaneous veins and le^shesubcutaneous tissue, as flap or otherwise, ^ the area of the dissection region. The subcutaneous veius and ner.es may be divided and reflected as may be directed.