375 ANTEROLATERAL AREA OF THE NECK. the first cervical vertebra (atlas) ; superiorly, to the exterior surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. 72. Longns Colli Muscle, Plates 189, "197, and 198.—This muscle has three portions—superior oblique, middle vertical, and inferior oblique. The superior oblique portion passes from the anterior of the two superior cervical vertebrae, to the an- terior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The middle vertical portion bridges from the third and fourth cervical vertebrae, to the first dorsal vertebra—the anterior of their bodies. The inferior oblique portion stretches from the anterior of the bodies of the first and second dorsal vertebrae, to the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. Dissection.—Dissect away (Plate 198) the left longus colli muscle and dis- play : the cervical portion of the left vertebral artery ; the anterior divisions of the superior cervical-spinal nerves, superiorly to their respective transverse pro- cesses ; and the anterior surfaces of the scalenus anticus, medius, and posticus muscles. 73. Vertebral Artery, Plates 196, 197, and 198.—This artery (vena comes), branch of the first part of the subclavian artery, is projected, superiorly, anteriorly to the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, to its entrance into the foramen between the roots of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra ; thence, it passes through similar foramina of the transverse processes of the five superior cervical vertebrae. It gives off external branches, to contiguous muscles; internal, spinal, branches, which enter the vertebral canal, by the cervi- cal intervertebral foramina ; and posterior branches of anasto- mosis and of muscle distribution (page 276 ; Plate 150). 74. Anterior divisions of Cervical-spinal Nerves, Plate 198.—These nerves are projected laterally, superiorly to the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and posteriorly to the vertebral artery. 75. Scalenus Anticus Muscle, Plates 189, 192, and 194 to 198, inclusive.—This muscle is attached ; superiorly (Plates 189 and 198), to the anterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae, third to sixth, inclusive ; infe-