324 HEAD AND NECK. ventricular cavities. It is extremely vascular, as follows: it receives all the arteries destined to supply the brain, which break up in its texture into minute vessels ; the venous blood of the brain is collected into small veins in its substance, which empty into the sinuses of the dura mater. INTERIOR OF THE BASE OF THE CRANIUM. Dissection.—Remove the brain from the cranium until the curved scissors, as follows: cut the dura mater, circumferentially, at the level of the cranial sec- tion ; raise the anterior lobes of the cerebrum and cut the falx cerebri from the crista galli of the ethmoid ; raise the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and cut the tentorium cerebelli, circumf erentially (be careful not to open the lateral sinuses or injure the cerebellum inferiorly to the membrane). Let the head hang from the shoulders, by taking out the block. Raise the two anterior lobes of the cerebrum, antero-posteriorly, from the anterior fossse of the cra- nium ; find the bulbs of the olfactory nerves, upon the interior of the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone, lift one of them so that it may come away with the brain, and cut the other so as to leave it in situ ; expose and cut the optic nerves, posteriorly to the commissure of the same ; also the internal carotid arteries, the right and the left. Open the coronary sinus around the pitui- tary body, which is lodged in the sella turcica, at the superior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone ; turn out the pituitary body from its bed. Continue to lift the brain out of the cranium, in an antero-posterior direction ; find and cut the following parts, to the right and left, alternately: the oculomotor, the troch- lear, the trifacial and the abducent nerves ; the facial and auditory nerves, and the auditory arteries; the vertebral arteries ; the glossopharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, and hypoglossal nerves ; the spinal cord at its superior end. The brain thus freed, pass the palm of the left hand to its base with two fingers into the posterior fossa 'of the cranium, and the palm of the right hand to the vertex sur- face, then withdraw the organ, in an anterior direction, from the cranium. Fol- low the spinal accessory nerve from its entrance into the cranium, by the foramen magnum, to its exit therefrom, by the posterior lacerated foramen. Recognize the superior end of the spinal cord. 31. Interior of tlie Base of the Cranium, Plate 180.—Af- ter the removal of the brain from the cranium, the interior of its base presents the right and left anterior, middle, and pos- terior fossce, which are lined by the dura mater. 32. Exits of Cranial Nerves at the Base of the Cranium. —The twelve pairs of cranial nerves leave the interior of the dura mater by foramina in the base of the cranium—olfactory, optic, auditory, facial, glossopharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal ; or by openings in the dura mater —oculomotor, trochlear, trifacial and abducent. The nerves of a side pass out, in order antero-posteriorly, as follows: