152 LOWER EXTREMITY. 3. Internal Saphenous Vein.—This vessel appears, for a short distance, along the inner side of the proximal third of the leg. 4. External Saphenous Nerve.—The inner and onter roots of this nerve perforate the fascia, distal to the point of emer- gence of the external saphenous vein, and unite to form the nerve proper ; it accompanies the latter vein. 5. Internal Saphenous Nerve.—This nerve sends branches to the inner half of the posterior area of the leg. 6. Small Sciatie Nerve.—Branches of this nerve perforate the fascia in the popliteal space and the proximal portion of the leg. Dissection.—Section the external saphenous vein and the roots of the ex- ternal saphenous nerve, where they perforate the fascia (Plate 84). Clear the surface of the fascia free of subcutaneous tissue, veins, and nerves. 7. Superficial Fascia.—This fascia invests the leg, and closes in the popliteal space, by bridging between the muscles which border the same. Dissection.—Incise the superficial fascia, in the same lines as the skin in- cisions (page 151), and reflect flaps, corresponding to those of the skin, from the subjacent muscles, nerves, etc. Trace the popliteal branches of the small sciatic nerve, that perforate the fascia, to the trunk of the nerve, and follow the ramifications of the terminal branches of the latter; expose the proximal portions of the external saphenous vein, the inner and outer roots of the ex- ternal saphenous nerve, and the cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve. * §. Small Sciatic Nerve, Plate 85.—The distal end of this nerve enters the proximal portion of the leg from the thigh. Its proximal end appears upon the biceps muscle and breaks up into branches, which distribute to the skin of the proximal third of the posterior region of the leg, as shown above ; one branch accompanies the external saphenous nerve, with which it anastomoses. 9. External Saphenous Vein, Plates 85 and 86.—This vein may be traced, proximally, between the heads of the gas- trocnemius muscle, into the popliteal space.