260 TRUNK 12 coronary Vein.—This vein is formed by the confluence of the comites veins of the right and left coronary arteries and their branches. It is lodged in the left auriculo-ventncular furrow, wherein its course is to the right, to empty into the right auricle. It is accompanied by the right branch of the right coronary artery. 13 Left Auricle and Interauricular Furrow.—This por- tion of the left-heart surface, is located at the right half of the base of the organ; it surmounts the left ventricle, and has the right auricle, the vena cava superior, and the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, in a plane anteriorly to it. I consists of a cavity portion, to the right, which is somewhat Quadrangular in shape; and an appendix portion, to the kit. Tit collapsed condition it is about one-fifth the size of he nndistended left ventricle. A slight furrow, to the right of it the right auricle ; to the right of the furrow 1S the opening into the right auricle of the vena cava inferior. 14. Pulmonary Telns.-The four pulmonary veins-two from the right and two from the left lung-converge to the lei Auricle: the right veins open into the right superior angle of the cavity portion of the auricle ; the left enter at its left supe- rior angle. 15 LeftVentriele.-The area of this region of the heart when nndistended, is about five times that of the collapsed left auricle, and is located interiorly to the latter It s t.l- atular in hape : its base is directed superiorly ; being large than the right ventricle, its lateral borders and its apex project beyond the" limits of that ventricle. Its apex forms the apex proper of the organ. It is separated from the left aim1by the left auriculo ventricular furrow ; and from the right ven- tricle by the right and left interventricular furrows. 16. Amending Portion of the AreU of the Aorta -This por- tion of the arch of the aorta is projected superiorly fiom U* base of the left ventricle. It is located m a^riid-plane . tt» appendix of the left auricle, posteriorly; and the right jm nZary artery, anteriorly. From the posterior surface of cardiac end, the left coronary artery takes its origin.