MALE PELVIC VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. 97 opening into the urethra, at the neck of the bladder, forms its apex, about one inch and a half from the openings of the ure- ters, respectively. The mucous membrane of the trigone area differs from that of the rest of the interior of the organ, in that - it is studded with mucous glands. 15. Urethra, Fig. 2, Plate 55, and Fig. 1, Plate 56.—The urethra extends from the bladder to the meatus urinarius ; it is a urino-seminal duct—urinary from the bladder, and seminal from the prostatic portion of the urethra. It averages about eight inches in length, and has a prostatic, a membranous, and spongy portion. It is lined by mucous membrane, continued from the bladder and from the ejaculatory ducts ; at the meatus (the narrowest part of the canal) the membrane is continuous with the skin upon the glans penis. The prostatic portion, one inch and a quarter long, pre- sents, along the mucous membrane lining of its inferior wall, a median-line longitudinal raphe or urethral crest, which con- tinues, posteriorly, to the neck of the bladder, and, anteriorly, into the membranous portion of the canal. At the highest point of the crest is the caput gallinaginis or veru montanum, which presents the opening of the sinus pocularis, or male utricle (analogue of the uterus of the female) ; from this sinus the probes or wisps entered into the vasa deferentia (page 95), pro- trude from the ejaculatory ducts, which open into it. The mu- cous membrane at the sides of the urethral crest presents the orifices of mucous glands—the prostatic follicles. The membranous portion—three-quarters of an inch long- is the narrowest portion, and is located between the prostate and the corpus spongiosum. The narrowest interior point of the urethral canal is the opening through the triangular liga- ment (page 20), which is at the junction of the membranous and spongy portions. The spongy portion, six inches long, tunnels the corpus spongiosum cylinder of the penis, and is divided in turn into three sections : the bulbous, the body, and the glands or fossa navicularis. The bulbous is the deepest section ; it is about one inch in length, has the largest calibre of the three, and pre- sents the openings of the ducts from Cowper's glands. The body, about four inches long, is the narrowest part of the spongy portion of the urethra. The fossa navicularis, an 7