ANTEEO-LATEEAL AEEA OF THE KECK. 357 and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, to the subcutaneous tissue of the superior portion of the sternal region of the thorax; the clavicular is projected, inferiorly, anteriorly to the external jugular vein and clavicle, to the subcutaneous tissue of the subclavicular region of the thorax ; the acromial runs, exter- nally and inferiorly, to the subcutaneous tissue of the acromial region of the shoulder; the superficial cervical passes inter- nally, between the external jugular vein and sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle, to the subcutaneous tissue of the anterior area of the neck; the auricularis magnus takes an internal and superior course, anteriorly to the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, to the internal surface of the pinna of the. ear and the subcu- taneous tissue of the parotid region of the face; the nerve to the trapezius muscle has an external and inferior course, to its passage posteriorly to the antero-external border of the trape- zius muscle (it accompanies the spinal accessory nerve); the occipitalis minor lies externally to, and parallel with, the superior portion of the posterior border of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle, as it advances, superiorly, to its distribution to the scalp (page 320 ; Plate 177). Dissection.—Dissect out (Plate 192) the antero-external border of the trape- zius muscle ; anteriorly and externally to its superior end, expose the occipitalis major nerve, a branch of the third cervical spinal nerve, and the occipital artery. 6. Trapezius Muscle, Plates 189, and 192 to 198, inclusive. —This muscle was before described (page 267) and illustrated (Plate 149). Its external and anterior border—external for the superior half, and anterior for the inferior half—forms the ex- ternal boundary of the antero lateral area of the neck. The border extends from the occipital to the clavicular attachments of the muscle (Plates 189 and 192). 7. Occipitalis Major Nerve and a Branch of the Third Cervical-Spinal Nerve, Plates 192, 194, and 196.-These nerves, the internal (cutaneous) branches of the posterior divisions of the second and third cervical-spinal nerves, emerge from the anterior surface of the superior end of the trapezius muscle, on their way to the scalp (page 820 ; Plate 177). §. Occipital Artery.—This artery presents between the su- perior ends of the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles; it emerges from the anterior surface, and at the superior bor-