198 UPPER EXTREMITY. it lias a longitudinal course through the arm, to the elbow, where its tendon and the fascial expansion of the same (bicipi- tal fascia) pass to the forearm. 24. Brachialis Antieu§ Muscle.—A portion of this muscle appears to the outer side of the distal half of the biceps muscle. ' 25. Supinator Longus Muscle.—The proximal portion of this muscle is located to the outer side of the brachialis anticus muscle. It is continued to the forearm upon the outer side of the anterior surface of the elbow. 26. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior Muscle.—At the elbow a portion of this muscle appears, along the outer side of the supinator longus muscle. Dissection.—Expose the nerves, artery, and veins at the inner side of the biceps muscle ; also portions of the triceps and coraco-brachialis muscles; find the musculo-cutaneous nerve at the outer side of the distal portion of the j biceps muscle (Plate 116). 2T. Basilic Vein.—This vein has a proximal course to the ax- ! ilia, which it enters posteriorly to the pectoralis major muscle. 28. Median Nerve.—This nerve emerges from the axilla, from the posterior surface of the pectoralis major muscle; it takes a distal course along the inner side of the arm, between 5 the basilic vein and the inner border of the biceps muscle. HI 29. Brachial Artery.—Posteriorly to the median nerve this artery (venae comites) will be found, having a longitudinal and distal course, from the distal border of the humeral end of the teres major muscle along the inner side of the arm, posteriorly to the inner third of the biceps muscle. 30. Internal Cutaneous Nerve.—This nerve comes out of the axilla, posteriorly to the pectoralis major muscle; it runs along the inner side of the arm, posteriorly to the basilic vein. It perforates the fascia, as before shown (page 195 ; Plate 115), to become subcutaneous ; it sends off branches, which are continued into the forearm. 31. Small Internal Cutaneous tferve.—This nerve accom- panies the last-described nerve from the axilla, running pos-