PARTS OF THE BRAIN. 431 clava, and diverge externally; externally to the latter, and sep- arated from them by longitudinal grooves are the right and left funiculus cuneatus ; externally to, parallel with, and sep- arated by slight grooves from, the last-described funiculi, are the right and left funiculus of Rolando. The two last named funiculi diverge, superiorly, and fuse to form the right and left restiform body, respectively, or the inferior or medulla oblon- gata peduncles of the cerebellum. The right and left diver- gence of the posterior longitudinal portions of the medulla ob- longata determines the inferior apex of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Dissection.—Make two longitudinal cuts along the lines of fusion of the valve of Vieussens with the right and left processi e cerebello ad testes ; re- flect the former anteriorly upon the corpora quadrigemina, as in Fig. 3, Plate 222. 54. Interior of the Fourth VentricBe of the Brain, Fig. 1, Plate 220 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 222.—The postero-inferior open- ing of this ventricular cavity was described (page 425) and illus- trated (Fig. 1, Plate 220). Superiorly its roof is formed, antero- posteriorly by : the valm of Vieussens (Fig. 2, Plate 222); the right and left processus e cerebello ad testes (Fig. 2, Plate 222); and the ventricular area of the antero-inferior surface of the cerebellum (Plate 220). Laterally, it is bounded by (Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 222): the fusion of the right and left processus e cere- bello ad testes with the pons Varolii; the internal surfaces of the right and left restiform bodies of the medulla oblongata ; and the divergence of the funiculi at the posterior of the me- dulla oblongata. Inferiorly, is its floor, which is divided into two portions : for its inferior third, the medulla oblongata por- tion, which is formed by the superior part of the postero- superior face of the medulla oblongata ; for its superior two- thirds, the pons Varolii portion, which is the postero-superior area of the pons Varolii. The medulla oblongata portion of the floor of the fourth ventricle (Fig. 2, Plate 222) is shaped like a pen-point, hence it is named the calamus scriptorius—at the bottom of the cavity of the tip is the opening into the central canal of the spinal cord. At the median line of the portion is a longitudi- nal groove, the median sulcus ; from the lateral portions of the floor, superficial linear markings of fibres present, the