79 ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC INTEEIOES. ganglia of the sympathetic, the fifth sacral nerve, the coccygeal or sixth sacral nerve and the coccygeal ganglion of the sympathetic, or the ganglion impar. 27. Sacral Plexus, Plates 33, 39, 40, and 41.—The anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve and a branch from the fourth (lumbo-sacral cord) form the superior contribution to the sac- ral plexus; the plexus is completed by the anterior branches of the first, second, third and part of the fourth sacral nerves. The above trunks converge to two nerves, the great and the small sciatic, which leave the pelvic cavity by the great sarco-sciatic foramen, inferior to the pyriformis muscle. The plexus also affords: interior branches to the pyriformis, the levator ani, and the obturator internus muscles ; and ex- terior branches to the gemellus superior, the gemellus inferior, and the quadratus femoris muscles. 2§. Anterior Branches of the Fifth Sacral and the Coccy- geal Nerves.—These two nerves distribute to the coccygeus muscle and the skin of the coccygeal region. 29. Sacral Ganglia and Coccygeal Ganglion of the Sym- pathetic—These ganglia continue the ganglionic chain of the sympathetic, from the lumbar region into the pelvis ; they lie upon the anterior surface of the sacrum, internal to the emer- gence of the anterior branches of the sacral spinal nerves at the sacral foramina. They are united by branches, and also com- municate with the sacral nerves. The fourth sacral ganglion sends a branch to the single coccygeal ganglion (ganglion im- par), upon the anterior face of the coccyx. Dissection.—Section the aorta, the vena cava, the ureters, the spermatic or the ovarian vessels and the suprarenal branches from the phrenic arteries (Plate 38). Note the arrow placed upon the right cms of the diaphragm, in- ferior to the renal vein (Plate 38); it points to the receptaculum chyli upon the body of the second lumbar vertebra, posterior to the aorta (Plate 41). Baise, en masse, from the interior of the abdominal wall, the suprarenal cap- sules, the kidneys, the superior portions of the ureters and the spermatic ves- sels, the renal vessels and the portions of the aorta and the vena cava. In rais- ing the piece of the aorta be careful to hug its posterior surface, so as not to injure subjacent parts. These viscera, attached vessels, etc., should be placed m preservative fluid. In the area exposed by the removal of the portion of the aorta (Plate 41), find a small vein to the" right of the median line—the commencement of the vena azygos major—and the receptaculum chyli along