ANTEROLATERAL AREA OF THE NECK. 363 belly is attached, superiorly and posteriorly, in the digastric groove of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone (Plate 189); it is projected, inferiorly and anteriorly, to its ending in the mid-tendon—in its course it perforates the inferior half of the stylo-hyoid muscle. The anterior belly is attached, superiorly and anteriorly, at the posterior of the inferior border of the body of the inferior maxillary bone, near to the median line; it is directed, inferiorly and posteriorly, to its ending in the mid-tendon. The mid-tendon determines the two bellies of the muscle. The fascial loop passes around the mid-tendon of the muscle, and is attached to the superior surface of the body I and the great cornu of the hyoid bone (Plate 190). 28. Stylo-hyoid Muscle, Plates 190, and 192 to 195, inclu- sive.—This muscle runs parallel with, and internally and su- periorly to, the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. It is attached, superiorly and posteriorly, to the external surface of the styloid process of the temporal bone (Plate 190); its infe- rior half presents an opening for the transit of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle ; inferiorly to the digastric open- ing, the muscle passes to its inferior and anterior attachment to the superior surface of the great cornu of the hyoid bone (Plate 190). Dissection.—Keverse the position of the head on the block, so as to pre- sent the left antero-lateral area of the neck uppermost. Dissect the left side of the neck from the stage of the dissection in Plate 192, to that in Plate 194, following the steps given for the latter from the close of paragraph 14 to the close of paragraph 28. Section the sterno-hyoid muscles, right and left (Plate 194) and reflect them inferiorly. Withdraw the block from under the head and neck, and steady the head in the position shown in Plate 195. Clear the sur- faces of the sterno-thyroid muscles, right and left; expose the tracheal fascia, anteriorly to the trachea ; display portions of the thyroid body, the larynx, the cricoid artery, the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the hyoid bone. 29. Sterno-Oiyroid Mu§cle: Fig. 2, Plate 135 ; and Plates 190, 194, and 195.—This muscle, located posteriorly to the sterno-hyoid muscle, is attached : superiorly, to the exterior of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx (Plate 190) ; inferiorly, to the interior surfaces of the superior portion of the sternum, and the first costal cartilage (page 238 ; Fig. 2, Plate 135). 30. Tracheal Fascia, Plates 194 and 195.—This is the mid- dle layer of the anterior portion of the deep cervical fascia.