ANTEEIOE OF ELBOW, FOREABM, AND HAND. 217 gives off the superficial volse and anterior radial carpal arteries from its inner side, before passing to the dorsum of the carpus. It has for its floor portions of the flexor longus pol- licis and the pronator quadratus muscles. The middle intertendinous space is between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus muscles; it con- tains the median nerve, giving'off its palmar cutaneous branch (page 209); the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle forms its floor. The inner intertendinous space is located between the tendons of the palmaris longus and the flexor carpi ulnaris muscles; along the outer side of the latter tendon is lodged the ulnar artery (venae comites)? the ulnar nerve, and the palmar cutaneous branch of the latter; the floor of the space is formed by the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle. Dissection.—Eemove the pollex eminence portion of the palmar fascia ; expose the muscles and vessels of the eminence (Plate 127). 42. Abductor Pollicis Muscle, Plates 122, 127, and 129.— This is the superficial muscle of the pollex eminence, extend- ing from the palmar surface of the scaphoid bone and the ante- rior annular ligament, to the outer side of the base of the pha- lanx of the first digit. 43. Superficial Volae Artery, Plate 127.—This artery (ve- nae comites), is given off from the inner side of the distal end of the forearm portion of the radial artery ; it enters the proximal portion of the pollex eminence, to the dorsal surface of the abductor pollicis muscle, and appears at the inner side of the muscle, where it completes the superficial palmar arch, by anastomosing with its ulnar artery portion. 44. Flexor Brevis Pollicis Muscle (outer head), Plates 122, 127, and 129.—This head of the muscle has a proximal attach- ment to the palmar surface of the trapezium and the anterior an- nular ligament; a distal one to the outer tubercle, at the pal- mar surface of the base of the phalanx of the first digit (pollex), to the inner side of that of the last-described muscle. It is lo- cated parallel with, and to the inner side of, the abductor pol- licis muscle. It lies in a plane dorsal to the latter muscle.