VERTEBEAL COLUMN AND ITS LIGAMENTS. 283 61. Articulations of tlie Bodies of the Vertebra;, Plates 42, 156, and 198.—The elements entering into these articula- tions (except that of the first and second cervical vertebras) are : the opposed surfaces of the bodies of the vertebras (Plates 156 and 198); intervertebral discs of fibro-cartilage (Plates 156 and 198)—these are pulpy at their centres and dense at their cir- cumferences (Pig. 3, Plate 156) ; an anterior common ligament (Plate 42 ; Figs. 2 and 4, Plate 156 ; Plate 198) extends from the anterior surface of the second cervical vertebra (axis) to the anterior surface of the sacrum—it bridges between the an- terior borders of the intervertebral discs ; a poster ior common i ligament (Pig. 1, Plate 156) passes upon the anterior wall of the vertebral canal or the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebras, from the anterior border of the foramen magnum | of the occipital bone, superiorly, to the anterior wall of the sacral canal, inferiorly; its fibres stretch from the posterior surface of one intervertebral disc to the other. Dissection.—Dissect away the superior portion of the posterior common ligament, and expose (Fig. 1, Plate 156) : the crucial ligament; the right and left occipito-odontoid and atlanto-axial ligaments. Cut away (Fig. 1, Plato 156) the superior part of the vertical portion of the crucial ligament, and dis- play : the odontoid process of the axis (second cervical vertebra), in situ; and the superior occipito-odontoid ligament. Demonstrate the occipito-atlantal : capsular ligaments, opening one of them. 62. Crucial Ligament, Pig. 1, Plate 156.—This ligament, as its name implies, has two portions, a vertical and a trans- verse. The vertical portion extends from the posterior surface of the body of the axis to the anterior border of the foramen magnum ; it binds in place, by covering its posterior surface, the odontoid process of the axis. The transverse portion, the principal part of the ligament, bridges between the internal surfaces of the lateral masses of the atlas crossing the posterior of the odontoid process of the axis. 63. Occipito-odontoid Ligaments.—These, also called check j ligaments, are three in number—right and left lateral, and su- perior. The lateral pass from the sides of the odontoid process of the axis to the internal surfaces of the right and left con- dyles of the occipital bone. The superior bridges from the tip, or superior end, of the odontoid process to the anterior bor- der of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone.