TRUNK. 262 19. Interior of the Might Ventricle, Fig. 2, Plate 145.— This cavity is lined by serous membrane—endocardium; it presents the right side of the interventricular septum. Its interior is irregular from sub-endocardial ridges of muscle tis- sue—columnce carnew ; some of these masses of muscle tissue have free ends—musculi papillares. The openings into the cavity are: the right auriculo-ventricular orifice—for the in- coming of blood; the or ifice of the common pulmonary artery— for the outgoing of blood. 20. Tricuspid Valve.—This valve is formed by three cusps —flaps of fibrous tissue covered by reduplicated endocardium—■ from the ventricular face of the border of the right auriculo- ventricular orifice. These cusps—right, left, and posterior— hang free in the cavity of the right ventricle ; from their edges fibrous cords—chordw tending—are projected for attachment to the musculi papillares. 21. Common Pulmonary Artery.—This vessel receives the blood from the right ventricle. The ventricular orifice is fur- nished with, the three pulmonary semilunar valves : they are a right anterior, a left anterior, and a posterior ; they are con- structed of fibrous tissue covered by reduplicated endocardium, and are attached to the circumference of the orifice. The centres of the edges of the ventricular face of the valves present small fibro-cartilaginous prominences—corpora Arantii. Where the valves open against the artery, the wall of the. latter forms outward pouchings, the sinuses of Valsalva, which are located as are the semilunar valves, viz., a right anterior, a left an- terior, and a posterior. Dissection.—Lay open (with the scissors) the cavity of the left auricle by the section lines upon its exterior (Fig. 2, Plate 144). Hold off, by loops of thread, the flaps of the auricular wall, to expose the cavity for inspection. 22. Interior of the Left Auricle, Fig. 1, Plate 146.—The sectioned wall is thicker than that of the right auricle. The cavity has a lining of thick serous membrane—endocardium. It has musculi pectinati ridges, which are limited to the ap- pendix portion. The four openings—for the ingress of blood— of the pulmonary veins, two right and two left, appear at the