158 LOWER EXTREMITY. end, two attachments: an outer, to the posterior surface of the proximal end of the shaft of the fibula ; an inner, to the oblique line on the posterior surface of the proximal third of the shaft of the tibia. Between these proximal attachments the internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein and artery pass into the leg, anteriorly to the soleus muscle. The gastrocnemius and soleus muscles (page 153) form the tendo AeMUis, which is at- tached to the posterior surface of the calcaneum 41. Nerves to the Soleus Muscle, Plate 87.—These nerves are supplied from the internal popliteal: the inner, the branch from which the gastrocnemius muscle is supplied (page 155), passes, posteriorly to the plantaris muscle, to enter the proxi- mal end of the tibial portion of the muscle, at the outer side of the tendon of the plantaris muscle; the outer, directly from the internal popliteal nerve, passes, anteriorly to the plantaris muscle, to enter the proximal end of the fibular portion of the muscle. Dissection.—Section, as in Plate 88, the inner nerve to the soleus muscle; cut the plantaris muscle distal to the entrance of its vessel and nerve, as in Plates 88 and 90 ; reflect the tendon of the muscle to its attachment to the calcaneum, where it may be cut away. Section the tendo Achillis (Plate 87) and reflect the soleus muscle to its proximal attachments, where they may be cut away, the tibial near the bone, the fibular distal to the point of entrance of its nerve and vessels, as in Plates 88 and 90. Clear the surface of the popliteus muscle. Trace the distal portions of the internal popliteal nerve, the popliteal vein, and the popliteal artery ; note the muscle branches of the nerve. 42. Popliteus Muscle, Plates 83, 87, 88 and 90.—This mus- cle winds from its proximal attachment, at the side of the outer condyle of the femur, to the posterior face of the knee- joint ; it widens as it passes to its distal attachment to the tibia, proximal to the oblique line of that bone. 43. Nerves from the Distal Portion of the Internal Pop- liteal Nerve, Plate 88.-The distal portion of this nerve gives off the following muscle branches : to the popliteus and flexor longus digitorum muscles, from its inner side ; to the tibialis posticus muscle, from its outer side. 44. Nerve to the Popliteus Muscle, Plates 88 and 90.—This nerve is given off from the inner side of the internal popliteal nerve and passes directly to the muscle.