82 TRUNK. internum (Plate 43) ; it continues, inferiorly, upon the interior face of the psoas magnus muscle, and is attached, at the brim of the pelvis, to the ilio-pectineal eminence. 37. P§oas Magnus Muscle, Plates 38 to 44, inclusive.—This muscle is attached, superiorly, to the lateral surfaces of the last dorsal and the lumbar intervertebral discs (Plate 44); it emerges inferiorly to the ligamentum arcuatum internum, runs along the brim of the pelvis, and blends with the iliacus internus; the two leave the abdomen inferiorly to Poupart's ligament. 3§. 4£uadratus Lumbornm Muscle, Plates 38, 41, 42, 43 and 44.—This muscle is attached to the inferior border of the twelfth rib, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the posterior third of the interior lip of the crest of the ilium. It emerges from beneath the ligamentum arcuatum externum of the diaphragm (Plate 43). It is located in the plane, posterior- ly to the psoas magnus muscle ; it continues, posteriorly, the muscle plane of the transversalis abdominis muscle, of the anterolateral areas of the abdominal parietes. 39. Iliacus Internus Muscle, Plates 38 to 42, inclusive ; and Plates 44, 45, and 46.—This muscle is attached to the interior of the ilium, and leaves the pelvic cavity with the psoas mag- nus muscle, inferiorly to Poupart's ligament. 40. Pelvic Cavity, Plates 42, 45, and 46.—This cavity is en- closed : posteriorly, by the bones, sacrum and coccyx, and by the ligaments, great and small sacro-sciatic ; laterally, by the ischial and ilial portions of the os innominatum and the sacro- sciatic ligaments ; anteriorly, by the ossa pubis, the symphysis pubis, the ischia, and the obturator membranes ; superiorly, it presents an inlet, which makes the cavity continuous with the abdominal; inferiorly, it is closed by the tissue-planes of the perineum (Male or Female Perineum). 41. Bone Areas of the Pelvic Cavity, Plates 42 and 45.— The interior surfaces of all the bones of the pelvic cavity arTord attachments to muscles. 42. Pyriformis Muscle, Plates 39, 40, 42, and 46 ; Fig. 1, Plate 45.—This muscle has its interior pelvic attachment to