340 HEAD AND NECK. away their anterior portions. Section (as in Plate 185, right side) the lach- rymal artery and nerve ; remove their anterior portions, carrying away the lachrymal gland. Cut (Plate 185, left orbit) the levator palpebrae superioris muscle ; dissect away its anterior portion, together with the tarsus of the su- perior eyelid. Expose (Plate 185, left side) the trochlear nerve, from its in- tracranial portion to the obliquus superior muscle. Demonstrate (Plate 185, left side) the intra-orbital fibrous ring, which surrounds the posterior ends of the intra-orbital muscles, vessels, and nerves. Clear the superior surfaces of the rectus superior muscle and the globe of the eye. Removing more fat from the orbit, display anterior portions of: the ophthalmic vein and artery, and the nasal nerve. 8. Intra-orbital Fibrous Ring, Plate 185 (left side).—At the circumference of the intra-orbital face of the sphenoidal fissure and optic foramen, a ring of fibrous tissue presents, from which the intra-orbital muscles diverge, and through which vessels and nerves pass. 0. Ophthalmic Division of the Sensory Root of the Tri- facial Nerve, Plates 185 and 186.—This division of the trifacial nerve is projected, anteriorly and a little superiorly, from the Gasserian ganglion of the sensory root of the nerve, to the point where it passes from the cranium into the orbit, by the sphenoidal fissure. As it enters the fissure it bifurcates into a superior—the frontal nerve—and an inferior—the nasal nerve—branch. The frontal nerve (page 338) gives off the lachrymal nerxe (page 339); the two pass into the orbit supe- riorly to the intra-orbital fibrous ring. The nasal nerve (page 342) enters the orbit through the ring. 10. Rectus Superior Muscle, Plates 181 and 185.—This muscle runs postero-anteriorly, and is located inferiorly to the levator palpebrse superioris muscle. It is attached: posteriorly, to the orbital surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, between the optic foramen and the posterior attachment of the levator palpebrse superioris muscle ; anteriorly, to the superior area of the sclerotic coat of the eyeball, near the circumference of the cornea. 11. Ophthalmic Vein, Plate 185— This commences at the internal part of the anterior of the orbital cavity, by the con- fluence of the comites veins of the frontal and nasal arteries. It runs obliquely, posteriorly to the eyeball, to the exter- nal side of the posterior third of the rectus superior mus-