TRUNK. 52 linea alba, where it is attached about a third or a half of the distance from the symphysis pubis to the umbilicus. 29. Rectus Abdominis Muscle—This muscle, as its name implies, is straight fibred ; it is attached, interiorly, to the supe- rior surface of the body of the os pubis from the symphysis to the spine ; superiorly, to the exterior surfaces of the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, and the cartilages of the seventh, sixth and fifth ribs. The muscle fibres are intersected at and above the umbilicus by three fibrous portions, which deter- mine the line*© transversa}; the latter are attached to the ex- terior layer of the sheath of the muscle. 30. Sheath of the Rectus Abdominis Muscle, Plate 28.— This invests the abdominal portion of the muscle, between its pubic and thoracic attachments. It is formed by the aponeuroses of the antero-lateral muscles of the abdominal parietes. The aponeurosis of the obliquus externus continues to the linea alba from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. The aponeurosis of the obliquus internus splits at the linea semilunaris into two layers for the superior three- quarters of the muscle portion ; one layer passes exteriorly to the muscle and interiorly to the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus ; the other layer passes interiorly to the muscle. In- ternally to the muscle the two layers reunite at the linea alba. For the inferior quarter of the abdominal portion of the rectus abdominis muscle, the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus does not split, but, as a single layer, passes to the linea alba, exteriorly to it. The aponeurosis of the transversalis ab- dominis, for the superior three-fourths of the abdominal por- tion of the muscle, continues to the linea alba, interiorly to the muscle and the interior layer of the split aponeurosis of the obliquus internus ; for the inferior quarter of the muscle por- tion, it passes to the linea alba exteriorly to the muscle. The exterior portion of the sheath of the rectus is formed thus: from without inward, for its superior portion, by the aponeu- rosis of the obliquus externus and the exterior layer of the obliquus internus; for the inferior quarter, of its abdominal portion, by the aponeuroses-in single layers of each—of the obliquus externus and internus, and the transversalis abdominis muscles. The interior portion of the sheath is deficient at the inferior quarter of the abdominal portion of the muscle; for