192 LOWER EXTREMITY. DissECTiON.-Section the ligamentum teres and the posterior portion of the capsular ligament, thus removing the femur and exposing the cotyloid cavity Cut the transverse ligament from its superior attachment to the cotyloid notch and reflect it, interiorly, as in Fig. 3, Plate 110 ; demonstrate the cotyloid at- tachment of the ligamentum teres to the interior surface of the transverse lig- ament Expose the articular branch of the obturator artery and nerve, respec- tively, that pass through the cotyloid notch, into the ligamentum teres ; also the articular branch of the internal circumflex artery. 6. CotyBoid Cavity.—This is a half-egg shaped cavity, at the exterior of the os innominatum, having an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion occupies the cir- cumference of the interior of the cavity, from the free border thereof, inwardly—with a deficiency at the notch ; it is ap- plied, when articulated, to the circumference of the head of the femur. The non-articular portion is at the internal part of the cavity, forming an oval depression; when the head of the femur is articulated, this portion of the cavity allows the liga- mentum teres to be lodged without being compressed. 7. Cotyloid Attachment of the Ligamentum Teres—This attachment of the ligament is to the non-articular part of the cotyloid cavity and to the interior of the transverse ligament, directly opposite the foramen formed by the notch and the transverse ligament. 8. Cotyloid Wotch, Plate 59 ; Fig. 3, Plate llO.-This notch is a gap in the internal wall of the cotyloid cavity, which the transverse ligament portion of the cotyloid fibre-cartilage con- verts into a foramen. The concavity of the notch is at the level of the non-articular portion of the cotyloid cavity. 9. Articular Arteries and Kerve, Fig. 3, Plate 110.—The obturator and the internal circumflex arteries have, each, an articular branch, which supply the joint, by entering the coty- loid notch to reach the ligamentum teres ; one is larger than or may take the place of the other. The obturator nerve supplies an articular branch, which accompanies the articular vessels into the joint.