4 INTRODUCTION. tageously reflected by threads tied into perforations at their borders. Loops of thread passed around vessels, nerves, etc. —with their ends tied—will be found useful in holding them off. Probes.—These (7) are used to demonstrate ducts, vessels, sheaths of tendons, etc. Scalpel Strop.—This (8) will be found very convenient ; one's knife is continually dulled, while dissecting; but a few passes of the scalpel over the strop will sharpen it. A saw, chisel, hammer and hook, costotome, intestine scis- sors, etc., required by the dissector, constitute a part of the furniture of a practical anatomy room. GENERAL RULES FOR DISSECTION. Division of a Cadaver.—A cadaver may be divided into sec- tions to be worked by five, six, or eight dissectors. A body assigned to live, one takes the head and neck, two take the upper extremities and thorax, and two the lower extremities, the pelvis, and the abdomen. A subject, apportioned to six, one works the head and neck, one the trunk (thorax, abdomen, and pelvis), two work the upper extremities, and two the lower extremities. A body, dissected by eight, there will be two to the head and neck, two to the trunk (thorax, abdomen, and pelvis), two to the upper extremities, and two to the lower ex- tremities. Object of Dissection Tlie object of dissection is to sepa- rate parts, not to cut them. With the separation of parts is included the removal from their surfaces of fibrous tissue of investiture—as membranes, areolar tissue, fasciae, inter-mus- cular septa, and vessel-sheaths. Rules for Dissection.—There are three rules to be followed to make a good dissector : First.—Know what you are to look for. This knowledge is attained by having previously read a description of the parts to be found in a given region. Second.— Work slowly and thoroughly. To fulfil this rule, do not allow yourself to work without system or method, but follow the progressive steps of a given dissection, as laid down in the book, which you have selected to guide you.