LOWER EXTREMITY. 15. Vastus Externus Muscle, Plates 85 to 88, inclusive, and Plate 90.-A portion of the distal end of this muscle presents to the outer side of the exposed part of the biceps muscle 16. Semimembranosus Musele, Plates 83, 85 to 88, inclusive, and Plate 90.— Proximal to the inner head of the gastrocne- mius muscle the distal portion of this muscle appears, forming the inner boundary of the proximal half of the popliteal space. 17. Semitendinous Musele, Fig. 1, Plate 67 ; Plates 85 to 88 inclusive, and Plate 90.—The distal portion of this muscle lie's upon the posterior surface of the last-described muscle, winding, anteriorly, between the inner head of the gastrocne- mius and the semimembranosus muscles. 18. Gracilis Musele.—The distal end of this muscle runs along the inner side of the semimembranosus muscle. 19. Sartorius Musele.-The distal portion of this muscle presents, anterior to the last-described muscle. 20. Internal Saphenous Nerve, Plate 86.-This nerve be- fore described (page 125 ; Plate 70), lies along the inner side of the proximal portion of the dissection area, appearing at the posterior border of the distal end of the sartorius muscle. 21 Internal Saphenous Vein.-This vein, before described (pacre 125) and illustrated (Plate 70), joins the internal saphen- ous°nerve at the inner side of the leg, lying anterior to it. It enters the leg opposite the anterior border of the distal end ot the sartorius muscle. Dissection.-Section (Plate 86) the proximal ends of the cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve, the external saphenous vein,the inner root o the external saphenous nerve, and the internal saphenous vein and nerve. Cu away the distal portions of these nerves and veins. Semiflex the knee-joint and draw the muscles bounding the popliteal space to either side ; determine the nerves and vessels contained in the popliteal space. In cleaning the ex- posed portion of the plantaris muscle preserve its nerve. 22 Popliteal Spaee.-This space approaches the shape of the diamond-figure on a playing card. Its distal boundaries are • to the inner side, the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle; to the outer side, the plantaris muscle and the outer