61 ABDOMINAL VISCEEA m SITU. 21. Ileo-colic Artery.—This is tlie second artery (vena co- mes), given off from the right side of the superior mesenteric trunk. It bifurcates into a superior and an inferior branch: the superior distributes to the commencement of the ascending colon, anastomosing with the inferior branch of the colica dextra; the inferior distributes to the caecum and the termi- nal portion of the ileum, and anastomoses with the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. Dissection.—Tie the ileum with two ligatures at about four inches from the colon, and section the gut between them ; with the straight scissors the ileum and jejunum of the small intestine may be stripped into a basin, by cut- ting the rami intestini tenuis and the mesentery, close to and parallel with the gut; the duodenum reached, apply two ligatures to the superior end of the jejunum, and section the intestine between them. Section the superior mesenteric artery the same length as the vein, and remove its trunk and branches. Trim away the great omentum or peritoneal apron from the trans- verse colon and the superior portions of the ascending and descending colon, respectively; also from the greater curvature of the stomach. Dissect away the transverse meso-colon (anterior layer) from the transverse colon. Spread the large intestine as in Plate 35. Follow the distribution of the inferior mesenteric artery, by dissecting off the peritoneum from the left side of the posterior wall of the abdomen, and reflecting the anterior layer of the meso of the sigmoid flexure. 22. Large Intestine, Plates 34 and 35.—This portion of the alimentary canal is divided into the caecum, the colon and the rectum. The caecum, lodged in the superior part of the right iliac fossa, and completely invested by peritoneum, is inferior to the ileo-colic opening—the latter at the junction of the caecum and colon. From the caecum is appended a blind tube, the appen- dix yermiformis, which curls inferiorly and is suspended by a special meso ; as located it has two flexures to the left. The colon is subdivided into the ascending, the transverse and the descending ; the ascending colon for its first half, is fixed to the interior of the right posterior wall of the flank, by the as- cending meso-colon. The superior half of the ascending colon, the transverse colon and the superior half of the descending colon are suspended by the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum and have the greatest possible mobility ; the inferior half of the descending colon is fixed to the interior of the left lumbar region by a meso-colon ; the sigmoid flexure is a coil of the descending colon, which is suspended by a long meso, by