224 UPPER EXTREMITY. palmar fossa. The sheath of the flexor longus pollicis ten- don is continued into the pollex eminence, and even to the carpal portion of the tendon, and to the distal end of the fore- arm portion of the tendon. Dissection.—Section the two proximal branches of the median nerve (Plate 126), the flexor carpi radialis, and the palmaris longus muscles (Plate 125). Turn off the distal portions of the muscles, with that of the supinator longus, to the outer side. Cut the anterior portion of the proximal half of the pro- nator radii teres muscle (Plate 125), and reflect it, with the proximal portions of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus muscles, off of the inner side of the elbow. Note the compound flexor attachment, of the superficial flexor muscles of the forearm, to the internal condyle of the humerus. 70. Compound Flexor Attachment (of the superficial flexor muscles), Plates 121, 128, 129, 130, and Fig. 1, Plate 134. —The flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the hu- meral attachments of the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the flexor carpi ulnaris muscles become fused to form the com- pound flexor attachment to the anterior and inner surfaces of the internal condyle of the humerus. The proximal ends of the two first may now be traced thereto, and left hanging therefrom. 71. Pronator Radii Teres Muscle, Plates 121, 125, 126, 128, 129, 130; and Fig. 1, Plate 134.—This muscle has an ob- liquely longitudinal course across the elbow and the proximal third of the forearm. Its proximal half has two portions, an anterior and a posterior : the anterior portion has its proximal attachment to the internal condyle of the humerus, to the proximal side of that of the compound flexor attachment; the posterior portion has its proximal attachment to the inner side of the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna. In the distal half of the muscle the two portions fuse into one muscle, which is continued to the outer side of the radius, where it winds over the same, for attachment to the postero- lateral surface of the shaft of the bone, at about the junction of its proximal and middle thirds (Plate 169). Between the proximal portions of the muscle the median nerve passes into a deep plane of the forearm (Plate 126). Dissection.—Trace the radial artery and nerve through their forearm por- tions. Section the posterior portion, of the inner part, of the pronator radii