183 ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. of the tendon expand : a direct slip passes to the plantar sur- face of the internal cuneiform bone ; a deflected portion passes, to the outer side, to the dorsal surface of the long calcaneo- cuboid ligament, and distally, to the'dorsal surface of the ten- don of the peroneus longus muscle. 18. Tendon of the Tibialis Anticus Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 102 ; Plate 105 ; Fig. 1, Plate 106.— The tendon of this muscle winds over the inner border of the tarsal region, to its plantar attachments, to the internal cuneiform bone and the proximal end of the first metatarsal bone. Dissection.—Section the long calcaneocuboid ligament (Plate 105); re- flect the distal portion to its cuboid and metatarsal attachments, and the prox- imal portion to the calcaneum; cut the ligament away, as in Fig. 1, Plate 106. Demonstrate the course, lodgement, and attachment of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, and cut it away (Fig. 1, Plate 106). Cut the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle; clear away its calcaneal and internal cuneiform expansions ; section its outer and distal expansions and trace them to their several attachments. Clear tiie surfaces of the plantar scapho-cuboid, the short calcaneocuboid, and the plantar calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. 19. Fibro-Osseous Canal for tlie Tendon of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, Plate 105 ; Fig. 1, Plate 106.— The plantar por- tion of this tendon passes from the outer border of the tarsal region, at the cuboid bone, to its attachment to the outer side of the proximal end of the first metatarsal bone. In its first portion, it is lodged in the plantar groove of the cuboid bone ; in its second portion, it lies between the expansions of the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, at its plantar surface, and the ex- pansions of the tibialis posticus tendon, at its dorsal surface. As lodged it is invested by a synovial sheath, which is closed at its outer end (Plate 101). 20. Expansions of the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus Hus- cie, Fig. 1, Plate 106.—The plantar attachments of this tendon have been partly described above—to the scaphoid, the cal- caneum, and the internal cuneiform bones. The deflected por- tion may now be traced : to the cuboid bone; to the middle and external cuneiform bones ; and to the proximal ends of the metatarsal bones, second to fifth, inclusive. 21. Plantar Scapho-Cuboid Ligament. — This ligament passes from the cuboid to the scaphoid bone.