22 TRUNK. the ischium, externally, to the tendinous centre of the peri- neum, internally. 32. Constrictor Uretlme Muscle.-This muscle is formed of transverse fibres, which are attached, externally to the free surface of the pubic arch, anterior to the attachment of the pre- ceding muscle ; internally, at the median line, they meet at a more or less well marked, raphe, the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side, and surround the membranous portion of the urethral canal. DrssECTroN.-TJnhook the cms and the corpus spongiosum ; cms to its normal position ; hook the bulb of the ^-W^J anteriorly; expose Coder's glands, by dineofang off the fibres of the deep lansversus perinafi muscles, as they converge to the tendrnous centre of the perineum. 33. Cowper's ©lands, Fig. 3, Plate 8.-These are two bodies, located in the urethral region of the perineum, interiorly to the fibres of the deep transversi perinafi muscles; their duet s run superiorly parallel with, and exteriorly to, the wall of the ure- iX to opePn at the floor of the bulbous section of the spongy portion of the urethral canal (page 2 ; Fig. 2, Plate 55). DlssECTiON.-Section the gluteus maximus muscle (Plate 7) and reflect the flTSeriorly. Section the constrictores urettae and deep transvers, arch attachment may be cut away. In removing this plane of muscle be care- ful not to injure a subjacent plane of fascia. 34 ©reat Sacro-Sclatic Ligament, Fig. 3, Plate 8, and Plate 9 —The inferior edge and a portion of the exterior sur- face of this ligament are brought into view ; the ligament ex- tends from the border of the coccyx to the tuberosity of the ischium, in a plane interior to the gluteus maximus muscle. 35 Fourth Sacral Serve—This nerve perforates the great sacropelvic ligament, to wind over the infer!°^ bojder of the gluteus maximus muscle, near the coccyx, for distnbution to the skin of the coccygeal region. 36 Levator Fascia (anal fascia and posterior layer of the triangular ligament), Fig. 3, Plate 8—This fascia, already par- iX shown in Plate 7, now presents as a plane of fascia com- mon to both the rectal and urethral regions of the perineum.