TRUNK. 74 comes the femoral artery. Before passing under the ligament it gives off the deep epigastric artery, previously described (page 54); also, the deep circumflex iliac artery, which passes, externally, superior to and parallel with Poupart's ligament, to perforate the transversalis abdominis muscle and reach the lateral area of the abdominal parietes, where it was before re- cognized (page 50). 3. Internal Iliac Artery.— This vessel, given off by the bi- furcation of the common iliac artery, passes, interiorly, along the posterior portion of the lateral interior of the pelvic cavity. It divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk: the anterior gives off the obturator, the superior vesical, the uterine and the inferior vesical branches, and then divides into the internal pudic and the sciatic arteries; the posterior gives off the ilio- lumbar and the lateral sacral branches and continues as the gluteal artery. 4. External Iliac Vein.—The femoral vein enters the pel- vic cavity, subjacent to Poupart's ligament; the external iliac vein continues it, parallel with and inferior to its artery, to where it meets the internal iliac vein. 5. Internal Iliac Vein.—This vessel runs external to its artery, receiving the comites veins of the branches given off from" the anterior and posterior trunks of the internal iliac artery. 6. Common Iliac Veins.—These are formed by the junction of the right and left external and internal iliac veins, opposite the sacro-iliac articulations, inferior to and included in the forks of the bifurcations of the common iliac arteries. They converge to form the vena cava inferior, posterior to the com- mencement of the right common iliac artery. The left vein runs internal to its artery, while the right lies posterior to its arterial trunk. Dissection.—Follow the branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery ; cut away their venae comites. 7. Obturator Artery, Plates 39 and 46.—This artery (vena comes) has a direct course, from its origin, along the interior