(3g TRUNK. vessels into the iliac fossa. The meso-rectum is thus the portion of the greater peritoneum, by which the second portion of the rectum is fixed to the posterior and left lateral walls of the pelvic interior. The first portion of the rectum—from a point opposite the left sacro-iliac articulation to the anterior of the second piece of the sacrum—is swung by the continuation of the meso-sigmoid folds of the greater peritoneum (Plate 35). It is between the latter layers, that the superior hemorrhoidal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery continues to the rec- tum (Plate 35). 46. Retzius' Space, Plate 31.—The anterior surface of the bladder is not covered by peritoneum ; the latter is reflected from the former posterior to the point of continuity of the urachus with the bladder. A space exists bounded, posteri- orly, by the anterior surface of the bladder ; anteriorly, by the interior surfaces of the symphysis pubis and the os pubis, right and left. This is Retzius' space (Adolph Retzius, a Swedish anatomist) ; it contains loose areolar tissue, and has, below the level of the inferior border of the symphysis pubis, surrounding the neck of the bladder, a venous plexus, which continues, pos- teriorly, to the sides of the prostate and vesiculse seminales. 47. Rectum, Fig. 1, Plate 37,—This portion of the large intestine continues from the sigmoid flexure of the colon, at a point about opposite the left sacro-iliac articulation. Its first and the superior part of its second portion present, in situ, as we look into the pelvic cavity from above. 48. Bladder.—This organ varies in its position at different ages: in the child, it is almost an abdominal organ, being located largely above the brim of the pelvis ; in the adult, it becomes a pelvic organ, being lodged below the brim of the pelvis. In the adult male—except when distended—it is located between the symphysis pubis and the bodies of the ossa pubis, anteriorly, and the rectum, posteriorly. 49. Female Pelvis, Fig. 2, Plate 37.—As compared with the male, the female pelvic diameters are all much greater; the increased capacity of the pelvic cavity affords lodgment for the internal female genitalia, viz.: the vagina, the uterus, the Fallopian tubes, the ovaries, etc.