88 TRUNK. (Plates 35 and 36) in situ, enters the duodenum through the pos- terior wall of its descending portion ; it receives the duct of the pancreas, before passing into the wall of the gut; it perfor- ates the wall of the latter canal obliquely, thereby determining a valve-like opening. Dissection.—Trace the superior mesenteric and splenic veins to the vena portse. 9. Vena Portae, Plates 48, 52, 35 and 36.—This vein takes its origin at the convergence of the superior mesenteric and the splenic veins—the latter receiving the inferior mesenteric. The trunk of the vena portse receives the gastro-epiploica dextra, the pyloric, the gastric and the cystic veins. The vessel is from two to three inches long from its origin to where it enters the transverse fissure of the liver. Dissection.—Eemove the liver by cutting the ductus communis choledo- chus and the vena portse, at the section lines (Plate 48). Clear away the su- perior mesenteric and splenic veins. 10. Pancreas, Plates 48 and 49.—This organ was described (page 65) and illustrated (Plates 35 and 36) in situ. In this its special dissection, it is seen to have somewhat the shape of a hammer. Its anterior surface shows its portions to be : a head, to the right, included in the concavity of the duodenum ; a neck or constricted portion, anterior to the superior mesenteric vessels ; a body, extending to the left; while its tip or tail-like end terminates at the left. The splenic and inferior mesenteric veins lie posterior to the left half of the pancreas. Dissection.—Turn over the two organs (duodenum and pancreas) ; deter- mine the vessels upon the posterior surface of the head of the pancreas. Dis- sect longitudinally into the superior half of the posterior surface of the pan- creas, from its tip to its head, and search for the pancreatic duct; start the dissection at about the junction of the head and neck of the organ; once recognized, follow the duct to the left into the tail of the viscus and to the right toward its head. 11. Inferior Pancreatico-Duodenal Artery, Fig. 1, Plate 49, and Plate 36.—Upon the posterior surface of the pancreas, at its head, the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the su- perior mesenteric artery presents ; it there follows, from left to right, the curve of the head of the pancreas, as lodged in the con- cavity of the duodenum ; it supplies branches to the pancreas