78 TRUNK. it then curves, externally and anteriorly, upon the interior of the superior portion of the iliacus internus muscle, running in- feriorly to, and parallel with, the crest of the ilium, to pass into the thigh under Poupart's ligament, near the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. 23. Genito-Crural Nerve, Plates 38 and 41.—This is a branch from the second lumbar, which passes, inferiorly, through the substance of the psoas magnus muscle ; it emerges at the inter- nal and rises to the superior surface of the muscle, and con- tinues to Poupart's ligament. The trunk of the nerve bifurcates into a genital and a crural branch ; the genital branch joins the spermatic cord at the iliac or internal abdominal ring to distribute to the cremaster muscle ; the crural branch leaves the pelvic cavity beneath Poupart's ligament. 24. Anterior Crural Nerve, Plates 38, 39, 40, and 41.—This nerve is contributed to by the second, third and fourth lumbar nerves ; the three branches form a single trunk, inferior to the posterior portion of the crest of the ilium, lying between the iliacus internus and the psoas magnus muscles ; it appears upon the iliacus internus, superior to Poupart's ligament, along the external border of the psoas magnus ; it continues, inferiorly, passing beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh. 25. Obturator Nerve, Plates 39, 40, 41, and 46.—This branch, given off from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, runs inferiorly and posteriorly to the psoas magnus muscle and the external iliac vein. It appears, inferiorly to the external iliac vein, upon the interior of the obturator internus muscle, where it courses superiorly to, and parallel with, the obturator artery ; it leaves the pelvic cavity by the same foramen as the artery T (see page 74). 26. Accessory Obturator Nerve.—This is given off (when present) from the fourth lumbar nerve ; it accompanies the ob- turator nerve, but leaves the pelvis under Poupart's ligament, over the horizontal ramus of the os pubis. Dissection.—Trace the fifth lumbar nerve and the branch it receives from the fourth lumbar ; also, the four superior sacral nerves, from the ante- rior sacral foramina to the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Determine the sacral