UPPER EXTREMITY. 214 27. Serves to the Pronator Radii Teres, Flexor Carpi Radialis, Palmari§ Longus, and Flexor Sublimis Digitorucn Museles, Plate 126.—Three nerves, the proximal branches of the median nerve, are distributed to these muscles. They are given oft' from the inner side of the nerve, at the anconeal space portion of its course: the first, to the pronator radii teres, bifurcates, one branch supplying the anterior, the other the posterior portion of that muscle ; the second and third, pass into the forearm, posteriorly to the posterior portion of the pronator radii teres muscle, to reach their respective mus- cles (the second, to the second and third muscles ; the third, to the fourth muscle). 28. Brachial, Radial, and Ulnar Arterie§, Plates 125 and 126.—The distal part of the bracliial artery (vena3 comites) en- ters the proximal end of the inner portion of the anconeal space, from the posterior surface, and at the inner side, of the biceps muscle ; it has a distal course, between the median nerve, to the inner side, and the biceps muscle, to the outer side, to where it bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries. The radial artery (venae comites) runs along the inner side of the tendon of the biceps and is continued through the forearm, as before described (page 212). The proximal portion of the ulnar artery (vense comites) curves to the inner side, and leaves the distal limit of the anconeal space, posteriorly to the poste- rior portion of the pronator radii teres muscle. 29. Anastomotiea Magna Artery.—This artery (venae com- ites) is a branch from the inner side of the brachial, as the latter enters the anconeal space. It is distributed to the inner side of the elbow, where it anastomoses with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries, thus contributing to the peri- articular plexus. 30. Brachialis Antieus Musele, Plate 126.—The anterior surface, of the inner two-thirds, of the distal portion of this muscle forms the floor of the inner portion of the anconeal space. 31. Inner Intermuscular Septum.—This is a strip of j fibrous tissue, which is attached to the inner condyloid ridge