ANTEEIOR OF THOEAX, AXILLA, AND ARM. 199 teriorly to it; it perforates the fascia and distributes as before shown (page 195 ; Plate 115). 32. Triceps Muscle.—The inner surface of this muscle presents posteriorly to the biceps. The two last-described nerves and the basilic vein lie upon its surface. 33. Coraco-Bracliialis Muscle.—A portion of this muscle is brought into view in the triangular interval between the pec- toralis major muscle, the biceps muscle, and the median nerve. Dissection.—Section the pectoralis major muscle (Plate 116) and reflect its external portion over the outer surface of the arm ; note its attachment to the outer lip of the bicipital groove of the humerus (Plate 113). Clear the surface of the proximal ends of the biceps muscle and that of the coraco-brachialis muscle. Section the small internal cutaneous and the intercosto-humeral nerves (Plate 116). 34. Biceps Muscle, Plates 113, 116, 117, 119, and 120. —The proximal end of this muscle presents two portions or heads: the long or outer head, lodged in the bicipital groove of the humerus, passes over the head of the humerus, within the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint; the short or inner head passes to the coracoid process of the scapula, where it has a common attachment with the coraco-brachialis muscle. 35. Coraco-Bracliialis Muscle, Plates 113, and 116 to 120, inclusive.—This muscle lies along the inner side of the short head of the biceps; it has a proximal attachment to the cora- coid process of the scapula, in common with the short head of the biceps ; its distal attachment is to the inner side of the shaft of the humerus, a little to the proximal side of its middle. Dissection.— Eeflect the internal portion of the pectoralis major muscle (Plate 116) ; turn it off toward its respective sternal and clavicular attachments (Plate 117). Find the branches of the short and acromio-thoracic arteries and the anterior thoracic nerves entering its deep surface ; cut the same as they en- ter the muscle. Expose the costo-coracoid membrane and the fascia of the pec- toralis minor muscle; note how the latter is perforated by vessels and nerves. 3«. Costo-Coracoid Membrane, Plate 117.—This is a double layer of fibrous tissue, which encloses the subclavius muscle: one layer is posterior, the other anterior to the muscle. Their attachments are: to the clavicle, superiorly ; the first rib and coracoid process of the scapula, inferiorly.