118 LOWER EXTREMITY. posterior, which are in contact, respectively, with the an- terior and posterior surfaces of the adductor brevis muscle. The anterior portion affords branches as follows : to the ad- ductor longus, the gracilis, and the adductor brevis muscles ; a communicating branch to the internal cutaneous nerve (of the anterior crural), which at times (as in Plate 64) has a special cutaneous distribution to the inner face of the leg ; an articular branch, which perforates the adductor magnus muscle on its way to the knee-joint. 40. Obturator Artery.—This artery enters the thigh from the pelvis with the nerve. It distributes to the obturator ex- ternus and the adductor muscles, and the hip-joint. Dissection.—Clear the surfaces of the adductor brevis and magnus muscles. Define the femoral opening in the distal portion of the adductor magnus. Trace the femoral vein and artery through the opening. Recognize and follow the anastomatica magna branch of the femoral artery. 41. Adductor Brevis Muscle, Plates 59 and 64, and Fig. 1, Plate 93.—This muscle is the third of the adductor group ; it is attached to the exterior surface of the pubic arch and to the linea aspera of the femur. It presents openings, close to the shaft of the femur, for the first and second perforating arteries from the profunda femoris. 42. Femoral Opening in the Adductor Magnus Muscle, Plates 64 and 65.—This opening is in the tendinous portion of the distal half of the adductor magnus; through it the femoral artery passes into the popliteal space, becoming the popliteal artery, and the popliteal vein, having a reverse course, becomes the femoral. 43. Anastomotica Magna Artery.—This artery (vense com- ites) is given off from the femoral, before the latter enters the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. It has a distal course along the inner surface of the knee ; it distributes to muscles and anastomoses with the internal articular branches of the popliteal artery. Dissection. —Section the perforating branches of and the terminal portion of the profunda femoris artery ; cut the proximal ends of the femoral artery, the femoral vein, and the anterior crural nerve close to Poupart's ligament (Plate 64). Eemove the profunda artery with the stumps of the femoral vessels