TRUNK. 280 Dissection.—Make a median-line incision through the arachnoid membrane of the spinal cord ; reflect lateral flaps, and expose the pia mater upon the cord. 55. Arachnoid Membrane, and Sufoaracnnoidean Space. —This is the second sheath of the spinal cord ; it is separated from the pia mater to a variable degree at different points, the intervening space being the subarachnoidean space—-it is in this space that the large vessels of the spinal cord ramify. This membrane projects sheaths npon the roots of the spinal nerves to their points of exit through the dura mater. 56. Pia Mater and Ligaraienta Benticuflata.—This is the inner, and third, sheath of the spinal cord ; it invests it intimately, dipping into its fissures. The arteries, to be dis- tributed to the cord, have their primary distribution in this membrane, where they break up into minute vessels. From the lateral surfaces of the cord the pia mater is projected by points, invested by arachnoid—ligamenta denticulata—to the interior of the dura mater, in the spaces between the pairs of roots of the cervical and dorsal spinal nerves. Dissection.—Trace the roots of the spinal nerves from their emergence from the spinal cord to their exits through the dura mater ; cut away the cer- vical portion of the dura mater, at one side (Plate 153), so as to recognize the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, respectively. Display the roots, the ganglion, the mixed nerve, and the anterior and posterior divisions of the mixed nerve, of the second cervical spinal nerve. (Other spinal nerves may be traced in a similar manner by cutting away with the saw and bone forceps, the obstructing portions of the contiguous vertebrae.) Find and trace into the foramen magnum the spinal accessory nerve. ST. Moots of tne Spinal Nerves.—From the lateral surfaces of the spinal cord and from its conus medullaris sixty-two pairs of roots of spinal nerves—thirty-one pairs of anterior (motor), and thirty-one pairs of posterior (sensory)—are projected to sixty-two pairs of perforations of the dura mater. Each nerve root has an investment from the arachnoid and pia mater membranes. In the cervical region they are projected almost at a right angle from the cord ; interiorly, they become progressively more vertical, until those from the conus medul- laris run parallel with the longitudinal axis of the cord. This variation, in the direction of the roots of the spinal nerves, re-