142 LOWER EXTREMITY. and was before described (page 127) and illustrated (Plates 67, and 71 to 74, inclusive); its distal tendon enters the pollex border of the plantar surface, from the dorsum of foot, to reach its distal attachment, at the plantar surfaces of the internal cuneiform bone and of the base of the first metatarsal bone. 39. Initial and Terminal Tendons of the Flexor Longus Digitorum Muscle.—The initial tendon of this muscle enters the plantar region, from the posterior surface of the leg, at a point distal to the internal malleolus of the ankle ; it takes an oblique course therefrom to about the middle of the proximal limit of the metatarsal region, where it gives off four terminal tendons to the digits, second to fifth, inclusive ; in the digital regions the terminal tendons pass through the button-hole openings in the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum muscle (page 137; Plates 77 to 80, inclusive) to their distal attach- ments, to the plantar surfaces of the bases of the phalangettes of the digits, second to fifth, inclusive. 40. Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscle, Plates 75, and 77 to 81, inclusive.—This tendon enters the sole of the foot by a groove at the posterior border of the astragalus ; it runs in a groove upon the sustentaculum tali of the calca- neum, to the outer side of the initial tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. It takes a distal and straight course to the pollex digit, passing to the dorsal surface of the initial tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle ; in the metatarsal region it lies between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle ; it has its distal attachment to the plantar sur- face of the base of the phalangette of the pollex digit. 41. Flexor Accessorius Muscle, Plates 75, 79, and 80 — This muscle has two points of proximal attachment—an inner and an outer—upon the plantar surface of the calcaneum ; they are united by fibrous tissue. The two portions unite into a flat muscle, which has its distal attachment to the outer border of the initial tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle, proximal to its division into its four terminal tendons. 42. Lumtoricales Muscles, Plates 77 to 80, inclusive.—These muscles are lodged to the inner sides of the terminal tendons of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. Their proximal ends