ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. 179 Bowes of the Foot, Plates 68 and 75.—Twenty-six bones enter into the construction of the foot. In the digital region there are fourteen (page 123). In the metatarsal region five : the five metatarsals. In the tarsal region seven : the three cuneiform--internal, middle, and external; the cuboid; the scaphoid; the calcaneum; and the astragalus. The dorsal, the plantar, and some of the lateral surfaces of the bones present areas for the attachments of ligaments. Articulations of the Foot.—The twenty-six bones of the foot form the following articulations : the nine digital, by which the fourteen bones of the digital region are arranged into the five digits ; the five metatar so-phalangeal, which join the digits to the heads of the metatarsal bones; the cuneo-meta- tarsal, or the joining of the first, second, and third metatarsals with the internal, middle, and external cuneiform, respectively ; the cubo-metatarsal, the contiguity of the fourth and fifth metatarsals with the cuboid ; the intercuneiform, the three cuneiform with each other; the cubo-cuneiform, the cuboid with the external cuneiform ; the scapho-cuneiform, the three cuneiform with the scaphoid ; the scapho-cuboid, the cuboid with the scaphoid; the calcaneocuboid, the cuboid with the calcaneum; the astragalo-scaphoid, the scaphoid with the distal end of the astragalus; the astragalo-calcaneal, the su- perior surface of the calcaneum to the inferior surface of the astragalus. Dissection.—Clear the dorsal, the plantar, and the lateral surfaces of the digital articulations ; expose the ligaments at these surfaces respectively. 1. Articulations of the Digits, Plates 104 and 101 ; Fig. 1, Plate 102.—These nine articulations have each four ligaments: two lateral, a dorsal, and a plantar. The lateral ligaments are situated one at either side of each joint, in the dorsal half of the lateral surfaces of the digit. The dorsal ligament oc- cupies the dorsal surfaces of the joint between the dorsal borders of the lateral ligaments. (Some authors ignore this ligament, others regard it as the dorsal portion of the syno- vial membrane of the joint.) The plantar ligament (Pig. 2, Plate 104) fills the space between the plantar borders of the lateral ligaments, bridging between the plantar surfaces of the bones forming the joint. It includes a plate of fibro-cartilage,