HEAD AND NECK. 320 10. Auriculotemporal Nerve.—This nerve is projected, su- periorly, between the superficial temporal vessels and the pinna of the ear. Its terminal branch, the superficial temporal nerve, ramifies in the subcutaneous plane of the temporal region. Dissection.—Clear the occipital area of the scalp, exposing the occipital and posterior auricular arteries ; also the occipitalis major, the occipitalis minor, and a branch of the third cervical-spinal nerve. Display the occipito-frontalis muscle, also the auricular muscles. 11. Occipital Artery.—This artery (vense comites) passes superiorly, from the region of the neck (page 266 ; Plates 148, 149, and 150), into the subcutaneous plane of the scalp. 12. Posterior Auricular Artery.—Terminal branches of this vessel have a superior course posteriorly to the ear. 13. Occipitalis Major Nerve.—This nerve, the internal (cu- taneous) branch of the posterior division of the second cervical- spinal nerve, runs, superiorly, from the region of the neck (page 266; Plates 148, 149, and 150), into the subcutaneous plane of the scalp. 14. Occipitalis Minor Nerve.—This nerve has a superior course, from the neck into the subcutaneous plane of the scalp (page 266; Plates 148, 149, and 150), running parallel with, and externally to, the last-described nerve. 15. Branch of the Third Cervical-Spinal Nerve.—The in- ternal (cutaneous) branch of the posterior division of the third cervical-spinal nerve is projected, from the neck, into the subcu- taneous plane of the scalp. It runs superiorly, parallel with and internally to the occipitalis major nerve (page 2C6 ; Plates 148, 119, and 150). 16. Occipito-frontalis Muscle.—This musculo-aponeurotic plane forms the third and interior layer of the scalp, and has three portions. The posterior or occipital (muscle) portion is attached: inferiorly, to the superior oblique line upon the exterior of the occipital bone and to the exterior of the mas- toid portion of the temporal bone ; superiorly, to the ex- terior of the aponeurosis. The anterior or frontal (muscle) portion is attached: superiorly, to the exterior of the apo- neurosis ; inferiorly, it blends with the superior part of the