344 HEAD AND NECK. portion of the optic nerve—enters the nerve a short distance from the posterior of the eyeball. 20. Oculomotor tferve.—This nerve was partly described (page 342); its inferior branch is now seen distributing branches to the rectus internus, rectus inferior, and obliquus inferior muscles. 21. Rectus Internus muscle, Plates 181 and 186.—This mus- cle, at the internal wall of the orbit, is attached: posteriorly, to the orbital face of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, in- ternally to the optic foramen ; anterior!}^, at the internal area, and to the sclerotic coat, of the eyeball, near the cornea. 22. Rectus Inferior Muscle.—This muscle, at the inferior wall of the orbit, is attached : posteriorly, to the orbital face of the small wing of the sphenoid bone, inferiorly to the optic foramen ; anteriorly, at the inferior area, and to the sclerotic coat, of the eyeball, near the cornea. 23. Obiiquus Inferior Muscle, Plate 181 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184; Plates 185 to 188, inclusive.—This muscle is located at the inferior of the anterior portion of the orbit (Fig. 2, Plate 184), its internal attachment is to the internal and anterior portion of the orbital surface of the superior maxillary bone (Plates 181,187, and 188). It winds around the eyeball, infe- riorly to the anterior end of the rectus inferior muscle, and be- tween the anterior part of the rectus externus muscle and the eyeball. Externally it has an antero-posterior attachment to the sclerotic coat of the eyeball, at the external surface of its mid-portion. MIDDLE FOSSA OF THE CRANIUM. Dissection.—Either the right or left middle fossa of the interior of the cra- nium may be dissected consecutively, but for purposes of illustration both fossce are dissected and utilized for counter-references. Terms of Relation—The general terms (page 2) will suffice to locate the parts in this dissection. Bones of a Middle Fossa of the Cranium, Plates 180, 181, 185, 186, and 199.—Portions of the following bones contribute to a middle fossa of the base of the cranium (page 324 ; Plate