ARTERIES AND NERVES CONTIGUOUS TO THE PHARYNX. 379 rior laryngeal nerve, before described (page 365) and illustrated (Plates 192 to 197, inclusive) at its inferior end, and where it gives off the external laryngeal nerve (page 369 ; Plate 197). 3. Glossopharyngeal Nerve and Us Pharyngeal Branch. —The superior end of the extracranial portion of this nerve appears between the internal carotid artery and pneumogastric nerve. Its pharyngeal branch winds internally to the artery, passing, inferiorly, to the pharyngeal plexus. 4. Pharyngeal Plexus.—This is a plexus of nerves located at the exterior surface of the middle constrictor muscle ; it is formed by the pharyngeal branches of the pneumogastric and glossopharyngeal nerves, respectively, and branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic (Plate 197). 5. Ascending Pharyngeal Artery.—This small artery (vense comites) arises from the posterior of the external carotid artery, at the level of the origin of the lingual artery from the same trunk. It has a superior course, posteriorly to the internal carotid artery. Its branches supply the pharynx, soft palate, prevertebral muscles, and the membranes of the brain (the latter branches enter the base of the cranium, at the foramen lacerum posterius, and the anterior condylar foramen of the occipital bone). 6. Internal Carotid Artery: Fig. 2, Plate 188 ; Plate 200.— The inferior portion of this artery has been partly described (page 367) and illustrated (Plates 192 to 196, inclusive). The superior part of its extracranial portion is projected, externally to the superior constrictor muscle, to the orifice of the carotid canal, at the inferior surface of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone (Plate 199). It is in immediate relation to the fol- lowing nerves and vessels : the pneumogastric nerve (Plates 196 and 200) and ascending pharyngeal artery (Plate 200), pos- teriorly ; the hypoglossal nerve (Plates 196 and 200) and the internal jugular vein (Plates 194 and 196), externally; the glossopharyngeal nerve and the pharyngeal plexus (Plate 200), internally.