LARYNX. 393 LAEYNX. Terms of Relation.—The general terms (page 2), and the special terms exterior and interior-^-relatively to the cavity of the larynx—will be used in the dissection directions, and the descriptions, of the parts of this organ. Dissection.—Cut away the lateral walls of the pharynx and the superior part of the oesophagus (Fig. 2, Plate 206). Hold the larynx and tongue (Fig. 2, Plate 206) so as to be able to look into the interior of the larynx, through its superior opening. 1. Antero-lateral Farrow, Fig. 2, Plate 206 (left side).— This is a mucous-membrane lined furrow, with an anterior and two lateral portions, partially surrounding the superior open- ing of the larynx. The anterior portion is between the pharyngeal face of the dorsum of the tongue and the antero- superior surface of the epiglottis ; thefrcenum epiglottidis, at the median line, and a right and left frenulum, at either side, bridge from the epiglottis to the base of the tongue. The lateral portions of the furrow are between the right and left aryteno-epiglottidean folds, internally, and the superior bor- ders of the right and left alee of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx, externally. 2. Interior of the Larynx.—Looking through the superior opening of the larynx into its cavity, it presents a mucous- membrane lining, which is continued, inferiorly, from the cavity of the pharynx, and passes, in turn, inferiorly into the trachea. Three constrictions of the canal present—a superior, a middle, and an inferior. The superior constriction—the superior open- ing of the larynx—is bounded : anteriorly, by the free border of the mucous-membrnne covered epiglottis; laterally, by the right and left aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane ; pos- teriorly, are two mucous-membrane covered tips, divided by a cleft (the tips are determined by the apices of the arytenoid and the cornicula laryngis cartilages). The middle constriction is formed by the false vocal cords. The inferior, and greatest constriction is produced by the true vocal cords. The antero- posterior space between the true vocal cords is the rima glottidis. Through the rima glottidis are seen portions of