p jgg LOWER EXTREMITY. side of the astragalus, from the dorsal surface of the distal and inner, portion of the calcaneum to the outer side ot the neck ot the astragalus. ,,. D„rsal Astragalo-Scaphoid Ligament, Plates 103 and 101 • 1<V 1 Plate 102.—This ligament crosses from the dorsal Surface°ana the inner side of the scaphoid to the same sur- face and side of the head of the astragalus. The superficial fibres of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint fuse with this ligament, so as to make it appear as if the anterior hgament was attached to the scaphoid bone (page 178). The inner por- tion of this ligament winds upon the inner face of the joint be- tween the two bones, to the plantar region, where it meets the plantar calcaneo-scaphoid ligament (Fig. 1, Plate 108). DissEcanos.-Extend the foot, with its plantar surface uppermost. Clear the surface, of the ligaments and tendons of the plantar region, cutting away all muscles, vessels, etc. 15 Plantar Intermetatarsal Ligaments, Plate 105 ; Fig. 1, Plate'l06.-These ligaments, three in number, bridge between the plantar surfaces of the proximal ends of the second, third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones. 16 Long Caleaneo.Cnl.oid Ligament.-This superficial fig- anient, of the plantar region, has a proximal attachment to the distal half of the plantar surface of the calcaneum Its dista attachments are: its deep fibres, to the proximal border of the peroneal groove of the cuboid bone; its super hem fibres spread as expansions across the plantar surface of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, which are attached to the proxi- mal ends of all the metatarsal bones-the strongest being those to the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones. The plantar surface of the metatarsal expansions of this ligament affords attachments to the adductor pollicis and the flexor brevut minimi digiti muscles. 17 Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle, Plate 105 - The plantar portion o£ the tendon of this muscle was referred to in the eleventh and twelfth dissections (pages 145 and 1«A It passes directly to its primary attachment to the tubercle o the scaphoid bone-on its way thereto it projects an attachment to the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneum. Superficial fibres