185 AETICTTLATIONS OF THE FOOT. arate the scaphoid from the cuboid ; stand the three cuneiform and the cuboid bones upon their distal surfaces, clear away their plantar ligaments, and spread the bones apart (Fig. 3, Plate 106); section the ligaments of the ankle- joint ; turn off the astragalus from the calcaneum (Fig. 2, Plate 106). In mak- ing these disarticulations note the interosseous ligaments that present passing between the opposed surfaces of the bones. 29. Interosseous Ligaments of the Metatarsus and Tarsus. —Between the surfaces of the bases of the metatarsal bones are four proximal interosseous ligaments (Fig. 3, Plate 104). Ligaments unite the internal cuneiform to the second meta- tarsal, and the external cuneiform to the fourth metatarsal. At the opposed angles of the scaphoid and cuboid bones a ligament passes, and an offshoot from it joins them to the con- tiguous angle of the calcaneum. Between the plantar halves of the opposed surfaces of the three cuneiform and the cuboid bones ligaments bridge (Fig. 3, Plate 106). A posterior astrag- alo-calcaneal ligament passes from the dorsum of the calca- neum to the* posterior border of the astragalus (Fig. 2, Plate 102). The opposed surfaces of the calcaneum and the astrag- alus are united by an interosseous ligament (Fig. 2, Plate 106). ARTICULATIONS OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA. Terms of Relation—Same as for the description of the ankle-joint (page 177). Bones and Articulations, Fig. 1, Plate 67 ; Plate 83.—The bones are : the tibia and the fibula. The articulations are : the inferior (distal) tibio-fibular and the superior (proximal) tibio- fibular ; the shafts of the bones are bound to each other by an interosseous ligament. Dissection.—Clear the anterior and posterior surfaces of the inferior (dis- tal) tibio-fibular articulation. Dissect away the posterior (inferior) distal tibio-fibular ligament, so as to expose the interosseous ligament of the joint. 1. Inferior (Distal) Tibio-Fibular Articulation, Plates 101 and 103 ; Fig. 2, Plate 102.—This articulation is formed by the distal ends of the fibula and tibia. Its ligaments are : anterior, posterior, and interosseous. The anterior inferior [distal) tibio- fibular ligament extends, obliquely, from the anterior and inner border of the distal end of the fibula to the anterior and