PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. 145 muscle. Note the expansions of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle from the tubercle of the scaphoid bone. 55. Tarsal Grooves for the Long Flexor Tendons, Plates 75 and 81.—Between the tendon of the tibialis posticus and the inner border of the flexor accessorius muscle two longitudinal grooves present: the outer one upon the plantar surface of the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneum (Plate 75) for the teudon of the flexor longus pollicis muscle ; the inner one for the ini- tial tendon of the flexor longus digitorum muscle. 56. Expansions of the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 82.—This tendon is not only attached to the tubercle of the scaphoid bone but it sends expansions across the area included by the tibialis anticus and the pero- neus longus tendons, and the inner border of the flexor acces- sorius muscle. Dissection.—Clean (Plate 81) the plantar surface of the transversus pedis muscle ; determine the relations of the digital arteries to the slips of the mus- cle ; and expose the adductor pollicis and the flexor brevis pollicis muscles. 57. Transversus Pedis Muscle, Plates 75, 79, 80, and 81.— This muscle crosses the plantar surfaces of the heads of the me- tatarsal bones, having a slip from the inner side of the head of each of those bones, from the fifth to the second, inclusive. These slips unite into a transverse muscle, which, at its inner end, has an attachment, in common with the adductor pollicis muscle and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle, to the outer side of the plantar surface of the base of the pha- lanx of the pollex digit. Openings present between its slips and the plantar surfaces of the heads of the fourth, third, and second metatarsal bones. ^ 58. Digital Arteries, Plates 77, 79, and 81.—The second, third, and fourth digital arteries lie upon the dorsal surface of the transversus pedis muscle; they emerge from the openings between the slips of that muscle and the heads of the metatar- sal bones, into the webbing between the toes. The fifth digital artery emerges between the distal tendons of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle, gives off the sixth digital artery, and then continues to the webbing between the first and second toes, over the plantar surface of the outer portion of the compound flexor brevis pollicis tendon (page 147). 10