ABDOMINAL VISCERA IN SITU. 57 ments of the uterus and bladder. From the fundus of the blad- der (posteriorly to the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries), by the external layer of the meso-csecum and ascending nieso-colon (at the right), and by the external layer of the meso-sigmoid and descending meso-colon (at the left), it is reflected to line the interior of the anterolateral parietes of the abdomen (Plate 31) and returns thereby to the inferior surface of the diaphragm. 5. Broad Ligament ©f tne Liver, Plate 30.—This, formed by two layers of the greater peritoneum, makes a scythe- l shaped ligament, attached as follows : by its base to the an- terior convex surface of the liver ; by its convexity to the diaphragm and the interior of the right anterior wall of the abdomen; by its apex to the umbilicus; its concavity is a ; reduplicated free edge, from the umbilicus to the notch at the inferior border of the liver. 6. Round Ligament of the Liver.—This, the obliterated umbilical vein, is lodged, within the reduplicated free edge of peritoneum, at the concavity of the broad ligament, passing into the notch at the inferior border of the liver. Dissection.—Cut the round and broad ligaments at their attachments to the abdominal parietes, and allow them to drop back upon the liver (Plate 30). Section the peritoneum—parietal antero-lateral portion—transversely to the right, and interiorly along the left of the median line and reflect flaps. Make a transverse cut through the peritoneum between the greater curvature of the stomach and the transverse colon (Plate 30) ; introduce the hand into the cavity of the lesser peritoneum and feel the following : inferiorly, the transverse colon; posteriorly, the pancreas crossing the vertebral column; superiorly and anteriorly, to the left, the entire postero-inferior surface of the stomach, to the right, the portion of the lesser peritoneum, which forms the postero-inferior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum (Plate 31). Find the for- amen of Winslow (the orifice of communication of the cavity of the lesser with that of the greater peritoneum, the border of the orifice being the line of continuity of the two serous membranes): the left hand in the cavity of the lesser peritoneum, its index finger passed to the postero-inferior surface of the liver, and directed transversely, and to the right, at a point posteriorly to the hepatic vessels, will enter the foramen ; the right hand in the cavity of the greater peri- toneum posteriorly to the right lobe of the liver, its index finger passed to the left, parallel with and posteriorly to the gall-bladder, will enter the foramen or meet the finger of the left hand, before introduced.