83 ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC INTERIORS. the anterior surface of the lateral mass of the sacrum, external to the anterior sacral foramina (Plates 42 and 45). It leaves the cavity of the pelvis, at a right angle to its attachment, by the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; it goes through the foramen, accompanied by vessels and nerves : superior to it are the glu- teal vessels and nerve ; inferior to it are the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves. 43. Coccygeus Muscle, Plates 39, 40, and 46; Fig. 1, Plate 45.—This muscle is attached to the interior of the spine of the ischium, externally, and the lateral portion of the interior of the coccyx, internally ; it crosses upon the interior of the small sacro-sciatic ligament. It is perforated by the fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves, on their way to the skin of the coccygeal region. 44. Levator Ani et Prostatas, or Levator Ani et Vaginae Muscle, Plates 45 and 46.—This muscle was described and partially dissected in the male and female perinei (pages 24 and 39 ; Plates 9 and 18). The dissected muscles and fasciae of the pelvic interior, as shown in Plate 46, is intended to make clear the attachments and fascial relations of these muscles (according to sex). (The dissector is not to reproduce this sectioned pelvis.) From the spine of the ischium to the interior of the os pubis, the line of the splitting of the pelvic fascia, into the recto vesical and obturator fasciae, bridges the lateral interior of the pelvis—the pelvic fascia line. The levator muscle is attached : to the spine of the ischium, pos- teriorly ; the interior of the os pubis, anteriorly ; and along the obturator fascia between these points, inferior to the split- ting of the pelvic fascia. From these attachments it passes inferior]y—as the levator ani et prostatas (male) or the levator aniet vaginae (female)—to sling the pelvic viscera, by the meet- ing of the right and the left muscle, along the median line of, and at the outlets of, the pelvic viscera at the perineum (Plates 9 and 18). From the obturator fascia, inferior to the line of attachment of the levator muscles, the levator fascia—posterior layer of the triangular ligament and the anal fascia—is projected to the median line of the pelvic outlet, ex- terior to the compound levator muscle (Male Perineum, page 22 and Fig. 3, Plate 8; Female Perineum, page 39, and Plate 17).