212 UPPER EXTREMITY. jected from its posterior surface ; it has a distal course to the dorsal, surface of the carpus. 20. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis Muscle, Plates 121, 125, and 127.—The distal end of the tendon of this muscle winds, from the posterior surface of the forearm, to the anterior of the outer side of the carpus, to reach its attachment at the anterior surface of the base of the first metacarpal bone. 21. Radial Artery, Plates 125, 127, and 134.-This artery (vense comites) has a longitudinal course through the radial half of the anterior region of the forearm. At its proximal end it emerges, from the posterior of the bicipital fascia, to the ante- rior surface of the tendon of the biceps, where it is located to the outer side of the proximal end of the supinator longus muscle ; it then passes to the posterior surface of the latter muscle; at the distal and tendinous portion of the muscle, it emerges from its posterior surface, to run parallel with it, and to its in- ner side, as far as the carpus, where it winds to the posterior surface of the latter. From its proximal portion, the radial recurrent is given off, from its outer side ; from its distal por- tion, the superficialis volse and the anterior radial carpal branch from its inner side. Dissection.—Clear the surface of the distal portion of the biceps muscle, its tendon, and the bicipital fascia. (Where the dissection of the arm has pre- ceded this dissection this will have been done ; the same is here directed, and described, to give completeness to the present dissection.) 22. Bleeps Muscle, Plates 125 and 126.—The distal quar- ter of this muscle is located anteriorly to the distal end of the humerus ; its tendon is projected into the proximal portion o the forearm, where it disappears posteriorly to the proximal border of the pronator radii teres muscle. The bicipital fascia is a process of fascia from the inner side of the tendon, which spreads as a fascial investment of the pronator radii teres mus- cle, and is attached to the intermuscular septum between the latter and the flexor carpi radialis muscle. Dissection.-Section the bicipital fascia (Plate 125) ; dissect it off of the pronator radii teres muscle. 23. Pronator Radii Teres Musele, Plates 121,125, and 126. | This muscle has an oblique course along the outer side of the