MALE PERINEUM. 19 and scrotum. The posterior perineal nerve gives off branches for muscle distribution, and to supply the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. 16. Superficial Transversus Perinaei Muscle.—This muscle extends from the internal surface of the tuberosity of the ischium to the tendinous centre of the perineum. 17. Accelerator Urinae Muscle.—This muscle is attached to the tendinous centre of the perineum and to a fibrous raphe on the median line. From this raphe its fibres pass externally and anteriorly, moulding themselves upon the half of the cor- pus spongiosum of the penis. Externally, it is attached to the exterior surface of the triangular ligament; anteriorly, its fibres pass, over the side of the corpus cavernosum of the penis, for attachment on the dorsum of the same. 18. Tendinous Centre of the Perineum, Plate 7, and Fig*. 3, Plate 8.—This is a fibrous tissue centre, determined by the con- vergence of muscles and fasciae, viz.: the sphincter ani, the superficial and deep transversi perinaei, the acceleratores urinae and the levatores ani et prostatae muscles; the right and left perineal fasciae, the triangular ligament, and the right and left levatores fasciae. 19. Ischio-Cavernosus Muscle (Erector penis), Plate 7.— This muscle is attached to the internal surface of the tuberosity of the ischium and to the crus of the corpus cavernosum of the penis. Dissection.—Section the superficial perineal artery and nerves, and the inferior pudendal nerve (Plate 7), and reflect them anteriorly upon the scrotum. Section the ischio-cavernosi, superficial transversi perinsei, and ac- celeratores urinte muscles (Plate 7), and reflect the portions of each. The tendinous centre of the perineum is not to be cut away. 20. Corpus Spongiosum of the Penis, Plate 8.—The subpu- bic portion of the corpus spongiosum of the penis occupies the median line of the urethral region. Its posterior portion, which expands into what is called the bulb, lies exterior to the triangular ligament and is invested by the acceleratores urinae muscles ; its anterior portion, or body, continues inferior to the corpora cavernosa ; it forms the inferior longitudinal cylin- der of the penis, and expands into the glans penis.