FOURTH DISSECTION. ABDOMINAL VISCERA IN SITU. Dissection.—Clear the antero-lateral areas of the parietal layer of the greater peritoneum, by removing the interior portion of the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle, right and left, and the transversalis fascia. Be care- ful in dissecting off the transversalis fascia from the peritoneum, that the lat- ter be not torn into; indeed, the superior portion of the fascia may be left upon the peritoneum. Dissect out and preserve, in situ, the obliterated foetal ves- sels and duct, which lie between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum. 1. Obliterated Urachus, Plate 29.—This is located along the median line from the umbilicus to the fundus of the blad- der, in the plane of the subserous areolar tissue exterior to the peritoneum. In adult life it is a fibrous cord, which serves the purpose of a superior ligament to the bladder. 2. Obliterated Hypogastric Arteries—These .are located in the same plane of subserous tissue ; they diverge from the umbilicus, right and left, interiorly, to the hypogastric region, where they dip into the pelvic cavity, exterior to the perito- neum, to become continuous with the superior vesical branches, right and left, of the anterior trunks of the internal iliac ar- teries. 3. Greater and Cesser Peritoneum, Plates 29, 30 and 31. —These are two distinct serous membranes, which form two dis- tinct serous cavities, which invest the sub-diaphragmatic por- tions of the digestive apparatus, etc., to insure their mobility upon each other in performing their respective functions and in their induced motions by respiration, etc. Dissection.—Section the anterolateral or parietal layer of the greater peritoneum (Plate 29), to the left of the median line, from the ensiform carti- lage of the sternum to a point just below the umbilicus ; make a second section, transversely, to the left, from the inferior end of the first; reflect the flap upon the exterior of the left lower ribs, to which it may be pinned. Demon- strate the cavity of the greater peritoneum by passing the hand and arm into it: