110 LOWER EXTREMITY. nous vein, lymphatic vessels, the crural branch of the genito- crural nerve, and some of the recurrent branches of the femo- ral artery. From the exterior of the internal saphenous vein to the borders of the opening, the deep layer of the subcuta- neous tissue closes the same ; this portion of the subcutaneous tissue is perforated by vessels and lymphatics, giving it a sieve-like character, hence its special name of cribriform fas- cia of the saphenous opening. 11. Genito-Crural Nerve.—The crural branch of this nerve (page 78) passes beneath Poupart's ligament, and emerges upon the fascia lata, through the saphenous opening, to distribute to the skin of the proximal third of the anterior face of the thigh. Dissection.—Section the saphenous vein about two inches from the saphe- nous opening; also cut the nerves in the subcutaneous plane, close to their points of perforation of the fascia lata. Clear the surface of the fascia of all portions of veins and nerves. Incise the fascia in the same line as the skin incisions (Fig. 4, page 107), and reflect lateral flaps of the same. 12. Sartorius Muscle, Plates 59 and 61.—This superficial muscle crosses obliquely from the outer to the inner side of the limb, between its proximal attachment at the anterior border of the os innominatum, inferior to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to its distal attachment at the inner tuberosity of the tibia. 13. Tensor Vaginse Femoris Muscle, Plate 61.—This is sit- uated at the outer side of the proximal third of the thigh. Its proximal attachment is to the os innominatum, posterior and inferior to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; its distal end is attached to the fascia lata in the proximal half of the thigh. 14. Rectus Femoris Muscle, Plate 61.—This muscle occu- pies a plane deeper than the two previous muscles; it emerges upon the anterior face of the thigh into the distal angle formed between them and continues to the knee. 15. Vastus Externus Muscle.—This is the muscle to the outer side of the rectus femoris and distal to the tensor va- gina femoris; it swathes around the outer surface of the femur down to the knee.