384 HEAD AND NECK. Terms of Relation.—The general terms (page 2), and the special terms interior, exterior, and lateral—relatively to the buccal and pharyngeal cavities—serve to locate the parts of this dissection. Bones, and Bone Attachments of Muscles, Plates 190 and 199 ; Fig. 2, Plate 205.—The bones forming the hard palate (Fig. 2, Plate 205) are: the right and left superior maxillary (their palatine processes); the right and lett palate (their hori- zontal portions). The bones affording attachments to muscles of the soft palate are : the right and left temporal (their petrous portions); the sphenoid (its navicular fossa) ; the right and left palate (the posterior borders of their horizontal plates). Dissection.—Looking through the stretched pharyngeal wall, the outlines of the right and left palato-pharyngeus muscle may be seen, located in the submucous plane, interiorly to the fibrous coat. Dissect (Plate 203) the mucous membrane from the interior of the right and left of the pharynx, and from the postero-superior surface of the soft palate ; display (Plate 203) the right and the left palato-pharyngeus, levator palati, and azygos uvulae muscles ; and the pharyngeal ends of the right and left Eustachian tubes. 1. Palato-pharyngeus muscle, Plate 203.—This muscle is located in the submucous plane of the lateral wall of the pharynx. It is attached inferiorly to the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage of the larynx ; thence it has a superior course to the soft palate, of which it forms the substance of its posterior pillar. It ends in the body of the soft palate, by a superior-internal and an inferior-external portion : the su- perior-internal portion consists of stray fibres to the superior surfaces of the palatine ends of the levator palati and the azygos uvulse muscles, of a side, as far as the median line (Plate 203, right side); the inferior-external portion passes to the superior of, the external part of, the body of the soft palate, to blend with the palatine ends of the levator palati and tensor palati muscles, of a side (Plate 203, right side). A slip, from the palatine end of the inferior-external portion of the muscle, extends to the Eustachian tube, the salpingo- pilaryngeus muscle (Plate 203, right side). a. Levator Palati Muscle: Fig. 2, Plate 188 ; Plates 190, 199, 201, 203, and 204; Fig. 2, Plate 205.—The superior end of this muscle is attached to the petrous portion of the