POSTERIOE OF ELBOW, FOREARM, HAND, AND DIGITS. 301 seous artery. Clear the surfaces of the extensor indicis and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis muscles ; cut open the posterior annular ligament compart- ment of the latter. 1§. Extensor Indicis Muscle, Plates 163, 165, 167, and 168. —This muscle lias its proximal attachment to the outer side of the distal third of the shaft of the ulna ; it is projected across the carpus in the same compartment of the posterior annular ligament as the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum muscle, anteriorly to the latter ; it crosses the meta- carpus obliquely, to reach the second or index digit, passing along the inner side of the terminal tendon, to that digit, of the extensor communis digitorum muscle. Its course upon the dorsum of the second digit will be described hereafter. 19. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis Muscle, Plates 163, and 165 to 169, inclusive.—This muscle is attached, at its proximal end, totthe outer side of the distal portion of the middle third of the shaft of the ulna, proximal to the attach- ment of the last-described muscle. It has a distal and oblique course to the outer third of the posterior surface of the car- pus, where it runs through a compartment of the posterior an- nular ligament, common to it and the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior muscles ; it lies posteriorly to the latter muscles. Its tendon passes upon the dorsal sur- face of the first metacarpal bone and phalanx of the first digit, to reach the distal attachment of the muscle, at the dorsal surface of the base of the phalangette of the first digit. Dissection.—Section (Plate 167) the extensor carpi radialis brevior, the extensor carpi ulnaris, the extensor indicis and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis muscles ; reflect the proximal and distal portions of the same. Follow the trunk of the posterior interosseous nerve, to where it passes anteriorly to the deep fascia upon the posterior surface of the carpus. Find and trace the perforating branches of the anterior interosseous artery. Clear the surfaces of the extensor primi internodii pollicis, the ossis metacarpi pollicis (slit open the compartment of the posterior annular ligament lodging the tendons of these two muscles), and the supinator brevis muscles. Clear the deep fascia upon the dorsum of the carpus and metacarpus. 20. Posterior Interosseous Nerve, Plate 168.—The proxi- mal portion of this nerve was before described (page 300). From the point where it passed anteriorly to the extensor