! 274 TEUNK. dorsal vertebrae ; tlie floor of the groove is formed by the pos- terior surface of the sacrum, the laminae of the vertebrae, and the ligamenta subflava between the laminae. The muscles consist of oblique fibres which are attached : inferiorly, in their groove of lodgment through the sacral region, to the mamillary processes in the lumbar region, to the transverse processes in the dorsal region, and to the articular processes in the cervical region ; superiorly, to the lateral surfaces of the spinous processes of the lumbar, dorsal, and cervical (as high as the second) vertebra These fibres are laid down m layers of varying length (crossing from one to four vertebral laminae); the long fibres are posterior to the short ones. 32. Intertransverses Muscles.—These muscles extend be- tween the transverse processes of the vertebrae. In the lumbar region they are best developed. In the dorsal region they are wanting, but are replaced by the intertransverse ligaments. 33. Interspinals Muscles.—These are short longitudinal muscles, which bridge between the spinous processes of the vertebrae. They are developed in the lumbar and cervical re- gions, and are absent in the dorsal region. 34 Posterior Aponeurosis of the Transi ersalis Abdominis Muscle, Plates 151 and 152.-This aponeurosis passes to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, between the erec- tor spinae muscle, posteriorly, and the quadratus lumborum muscle, anteriorly. (This is usually described as the middle | layer of the lumbar fascia.) 35. Levatores Costarum Muscles, Plate 152.-These twelve j pairs of muscles are located at either side of the dorsal region of the vertebral column. The muscles, of a side, are attached : superiorly, to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, seventh cervical to eleventh dorsal, inclusive ; inferiorly, to the superior borders of the ribs (first to twelfth), internally to their angles. 36. Posterior Divisions of tlie Lumbar and Dorsal Spinal Werroi.—These nerves are projected, posteriorly, from the bi- furcations of the spinal nerves. In the lumbar region they are lodged posteriorly to the intertransversales muscles. In tm dorsal region they emerge anteriorly to the dorsal mtertrans-