HEAD AND NECK. 418 (Plate 214) at the inferior surfaces of the frontal lobes of the cerebrum ; at their anterior ends are enlargements, the olfac- tory bulbs (Plate 214), from which the distributing filaments of the nerves are given off. The second or optic nerves are given off, anteriorly, right and left, from the optic commissure. The third or oculomotor nerves emerge from the internal surfaces of the posterior thirds of the crura cerebri, and wind out of the posterior part of the interpeduncular space. The fourth or trochlear nerves arise from the valve of Vieus- sens (Fig. 2, Plate 221) and appear winding inferiorly and an- teriorly, externally to the posterior ends of the crura cerebri. The fifth or trifacial nerves come out from the lateral sur- faces of the pons Varolii—a large sensory and a small motor root. The sixth or abducent nerves appear, at either side, from the groove between the anteroinferior surfaces of the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata. The seventh or facial nerves present, from the sides of the postero-superior surface of the medulla oblongata, over the posterior borders of the middle or pons Varolii peduncles of the cerebellum. The eighth or auditory nerves have their exterior origins in the same way as, but posteriorly to, the seventh. A small nerve, the nerve of Wrisberg, appears between the origins of the seventh and eighth nerves. The ninth or glossopharyngeal nerves emerge from the medulla oblongata, from the superior part of the grooves pos- teriorly to its olivary bodies. The tenth or pneumogastric nerves spring, by a number of filaments, from the same grooves of the medulla oblongata as the ninth, but inferiorly to them. The eleventh or spinal accessory nerves arise from the lat- eral column of the medulla oblongata, and—as its name im- plies—from the spinal cord—the cervical portion of its lateral column (Plate 153); the accessory spinal portions of the nerves enter the cranium by the foramen magnum (page 325 ; Plate 180).' The twelfth or hypoglossal nerves are projected, by a num- ber of filaments, from the grooves, of the medulla oblongata anteriorly to its olivary bodies.