249 INTERIOE OF THE THORACIC CAVITY. 40. Dorsafl Portion of ttie Left Sympathetic Werve and its Branches.—This portioned' the left sympathetic nerve is the counterpart of that of the right (page 246). Dissection.—Expose the superior part of the thoracic portion of the left lymphatic or thoracic duct. Trace the duct to where it enters the neck. 41. Thoracic or Left Lymphatic ©net.—The thoracic por- tion of this duct has been partly described (page 246), and illus- trated (Plate 139). It enters the thoracic cavity at the aortic opening of the diaphragm, along the right of, and in a plane posteriorly to, the aorta ; it has a superior, and slightly oblique, course upon the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the ten in- ferior dorsal vertebrae ; it is continued, superiorly, from the third dorsal vertebra, upon the anterior surface of the inferior portion of the left longus colli muscle. It enters the neck, upon the latter muscle, to the left of the oesophagus, and be- tween the left common carotid and subclavian arteries. 42. Mediastinum.—This is the space between the sternum, anteriorly, the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, posteriorly, and the right and left lungs, laterally. It is occupied by the fol- lowing anatomical elements : the thymus gland ; the heart, in- vested by the pericardium ; the arch of the aorta ; the common pulmonary artery; the superior and the inferior vena? cavse:; the bifurcation of the trachea and the roots of the lungs, right and left; the cardiac and pulmonary plexuses ; the right and left phrenic, pneumogastric, and great splanchnic nerves; the oesophagus ; and the thoracic duct. ■ Dissection.—The dissector of the head and neck section of the body should, in conjunction with the dissector of the thorax, follow the thoracic or left lym- phatic duct into the cervical region, to where it empties into the left subclavian vein. Pull out, to the right, from the posterior of the internal end of the left clavicle, the stump of the left innominate vein (by an attached thread), thus making taut the left subclavian and internal jugular veins; loop, internally, the left common carotid artery and left pneumogastric nerve. 43. Cervical Portion of the Thoracic or Left Lymphatic Duct, Fig. 2, Plate 140.—Having entered the neck from the thorax, as above described and illustrated (Fig. 1, Plate 140), this duct lies on the anterior surface of the left longus colli muscle ; it arches to the left, passing between the left pneumo-