NASAL CAVITIES AND CONTIGUOUS PARTS. 403 5. mucous-membrane Covered Turbinate Processes of the Ethmoid Bone.—These processes are two turbinate portions, inferior and superior, of the ethmoid bone, which are projected, internally, from the internal surface of a lateral mass of that bone, into the superior half of a nasal cavity. The inferior is larger than the superior, and both are smaller than the turbi- nate bone. 6. Mucous-membrane Lined Inferior, Middle, and Supe- rior Meatuses.—These are three antero-posterior galleries, along the external wall of a nasal cavity ; they are determined by the mucous-membrane covered turbinate bone and turbinate processes of the ethmoid bone. An inferior meatus has : the inferior wall of a nasal cavity interiorly ; the inferior portions of the body of a superior maxillary bone and the vertical plate of a palate bone externally ; a turbinate bone superiorly. A middle meatus is bounded as follows : inferiorly, by a tur- binate bone ; externally, by portions of a superior maxillary bone (its nasal process and body), a lachrymal bone, a lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, and a palate bone (its vertical plate); superiorly, an inferior turbinate process of the ethmoid bone. A superior meatus is walled as follows : inferiorly, by an inferior turbinate process of the ethmoid bone ; externally, by a lateral mass of the ethmoid bone; superiorly, by a superior turbinated process of the ethmoid bone. Superiorly to the superior turbinate process of the ethmoid a small antero-posterior space presents, which might almost be re- garded as an attempt at a fourth meatus. Between the nasal septum and the free borders of a turbinate bone and the tur- binate processes of the ethmoid bone, of a nasal cavity, there is an unobstructed space, which will admit an instrument from the anterior narium to the posterior surface of a nasal bone. Dissection.—Dissect away (Plate 209) the mucous membrane from the ex- ternal wall of the nasal cavity, posteriorly to the mucous-membrane covered turbinate processes of the ethmoid bone and turbinate bone. Find the spheno- palatine foramen, and trace the artery and nerves, entering the cavity by it, dissecting them out of the submucous plane of the external and the internal wall of the cavity. Find the nerve entering the external wall of the nasal cavity inferiorly to the spheno-palatine foramen. Display the arteries and nerve, entering through the superior wall of the cavity ; trace their branches, in- feriorly, by dissecting them out of the submucous plane of the external, and of the internal, wall of the cavity.