227 ANTERIOR OF ELBOW, FOREARM, AND HAND. also, the ulnar and the anterior interosseous arteries pass to a deeper plane (Plate 128). Dissection.—Section the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle, and reflect the proximal portion of the muscle, cutting it from its radial attach- ment (Plate 129), then turn it off to the inner side of the proximal portion of the forearm and the elbow (Plate 130) ; cut its nerve from the median (Plate 128) ; reflect its distal portions (tendons) off of the digits. Cut the radial artery and nerve, each at two points (Plate 128), and remove their included portions. Trace the median nerve through the forearm (Plate 130) to its carpal portion, where it breaks up into its four terminal branches (Plate 131). Section the ad- ductor pollicis muscle (Plate 127) and reflect its portions; trace the outer ter- minal branch of the median nerve to the muscles of the pollex eminence (Plate 131). Display the three inner terminal branches of the median nerve (Plate 131). Clear the opponens pollicis muscle ; the outer and part of the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. 79. Median Nerve, Plates 130 and 131.—This nerve has a distal course through the forearm, from where it passes to the posterior surface of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle, to reach the anterior surface of the flexor profundus digitorum muscle. At the carpus it ends in four branches, as follows : the first or outer branch enters the proximal portion of the pollex eminence and bifurcates, the outer branch supplying the abductor and the opponens pollicis muscles, the inner go- ing to the outer head "of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle ; the second, is the first palmar (pollex) digital nerve, to which may be traced the first and second palmar collateral digital nerves ; the third is the second digital, a branch from which supplies the first lumbricalis muscle ; the fourth bifurcates into the third and fourth digitals—the third supplying a branch to the second lumbricalis muscle. §0. Opponens Pollieis Musele, Plates 122, 131, and 132.— This muscle of the pollex eminence has a proximal attachment to the palmar surface of the trapezium, a distal one to the outer side of the palmar surface of the first metacarpal bone. Dissection.—Cut the flexor brevis minimi digiti muscle from its proximal attachment and turn it off of the minim border of the metacarpal region (Plate 131). Trace the muscle branches of the deep palmar nerve, and clear the op- ponens minimi digiti muscle.