HEAD AND NECK. 352 canal, by the inferior dental foramen. Before entering the foramen it gives off the mylo-7iyoid branch (a motor nerve, that receives its filaments from the motor root of the tri- facial through the inferior dental nerve), which passes, infe- riorly, in the mylo-hyoid groove, at the internal surface of the ramus and body of the inferior maxillary bone, to supply the mylo-hyoid and digastric (anterior belly) muscles ; it is accom- panied by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental artery. The inferior dental nerve is accompanied, in the inferior den- tal canal, by the inferior dental artery, branch of the internal maxillary artery (page 348, Plate 187); while in the canal, the nerve and artery supply the teeth (of one half) of the inferior dental arch; opposite the mental foramen (Plate 181), the artery and nerve give off, respectively, the mental artery and nerve, which emerge to the superficial region of the face, by the mental foramen (page 335; Fig. 2, Plate 184; Plate 187; and Fig. 1, Plate 188). 11. Gustatory Nerve.—This nerve, the largest branch of the inferior maxillary division of the sensory root of the trifa- cial nerve, has an inferior course parallel with, and anteri- orly to, the inferior dental nerve ; it runs externally to the tensor palati and internal pterygoid muscles, to the point where it passes internally to the anterior portion of the in- ferior part of the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone. 12. Chorda Tympani Nerve, Fig. 1, Plate 188.—This nerve, branch of the facial nerve (from its portion in the aqueductus Fallopii), enters the deep region of the face, from the tym- panic wall of the middle ear, by the Glasserian fissure of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone. It has an anterior and internal course, internally to the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, to the point where it com- municates with the gustatorjr nerve, at the external surface of the internal pterygoid muscle. 13. Middle and Small Meningeal Arteries, Plate 187 and Fig. 1, Plate 188.—The middle meningeal arlery (vense comi- tes), branch of the internal maxillary artery, has a superior course, to enter the cranium by the foramen spinosum (Plate 199), in the great wing of the sphenoid bone. As before re-