330 HEAD AND NECK. Dissection.—Through the fascia, externally to the masseter muscle, see the branches of the facial nerve—infra-orbital, buccal, and suprarnaxillary. Cut them out (Fig. 2, Plate 182) from the fascia, and follow them: externally, to the point where they disappear internally to, and at the border of, the parotid gland ; and internally, to their distribution to or passage posteriorly to the de- pressor anguli oris, orbicularis oris, and zygomaticus major muscles. Dissect out and follow (Fig. 2, Plate 182), superiorly and internally, the facial artery and vein (in tracing these vessels do not cut the branches of the facial nerve, which lie anteriorly to them). Clear the surfaces (Fig. 2, Plate 182) of por- tions of the pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, levator labii superioris pro- prius, levator anguli oris, buccinator, and masseter muscles. Find and trace (Fig. 2, Plate 182) the superficial temporal artery, the auriculo-temporal nerve, the temporal (two) and malar (one) branches of the facial nerve, and the trans- verse facial artery, to the border of the parotid gland, internally to which they all pass. Dissect the fascia from the external surface of the parotid gland and follow (Fig. 2, Plate 182) its duct (Stenson's), internally, to the point where it perforates the buccinator muscle. 11. Parotid Gland, Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; Plate 183 and Fig. 2, Plate 184.—The anterior portion of this gland is located exter- nally to the masseter muscle, parallel with, and inferiorly to, the zygomatic arch (zygoma of the temporal bone and the malar bone); its posterior portion is lodged, between the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone and the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, and turns over the posterior border of, to the internal surface of, the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone. The posterior portion of the gland is in close relation with: the facial nerve ; the external carotid, superficial temporal, trans- verse facial, internal maxillary, and internal carotid arteries; the external jugular vein and its submaxillary anastomos- ing branch ; and the internal jugular vein. Its duct (Sten- son's), is projected, internally, across the internal third of the masseter muscle, from which it is continued to its perforation of the buccinator muscle and buccal mucous membrane ; it opens into the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth of the superior dental arch. Dissection.—Section (Fig. 2, Plate 182) Stenson's duct; reflect the pa- rotid gland externally, and cut the gland so as to leave its posterior portion in situ. Trace (Plate 183) the branches of the facial nerve to the trunk of the nerve and to their distribution. Follow (Plate 183) the transverse facial artery to the superficial temporal, and that, in turn, to the bifurcation of the external caortid artery. (In exposing the trunk of the facial nerve and the bifurcation of the external carotid artery reflect the posterior and deep portions of the parotid gland, left in situ, and dissect the parts out of it.)