ABDOMINAL VISCERA IN SITU. 59 13. Small Intestine, Plate 32.—This, the second portion of the subdiaphragmatic part of the alimentary canal, consists of three divisions : the duodenum, the jejunum and the ileum (respectively, one, eight and twelve feet long). The jejunum and ileum, in situ, hang toward the left inguinal region. 14. Transverse Meso-Colon.—This is the projection of peritoneum from the posterior wall of the abdomen to the transverse portion of the colon. Dissection.—Collect the ileal and jejunal portions of the small intestine in the hands, and holding them off from the posterior abdominal parietes, the portion of the greater peritoneum, the mesentery, by which they are swung in the abdominal cavity, is demonstrable. Reflect the ileum and jejunum of the small intestine to the left. 15. Mesentery, Plate 34.—This is formed by two layers, right and left, of the greater peritoneum, which are attached across the interior of the posterior wall of the abdomen, from the left of the body of the second lumbar vertebra to a point opposite the right sacro-iliac articulation : the right layer spreads from its attachment, to its peripheral investment of twenty feet of the small intestine (the jejunum and ileum); the left layer returns from the intestine, narrowing to its attach- ment. The length of the mesentery between its attachment and the intestine varies from one and a half to six inches. Between the layers of the mesentery are lodged the superior mesenteric artery and its branches to, their vense comites from, the lymphatic vessels from, and the nerves to, the jejunum and ileum of the small intestine; also, the mesenteric lymphatic glands. Dissection.—Incise the right layer of the mesentery along the line of its attachment, and dissect the same, to the left, from off the superior mesenteric vein ; trace the vein and its branches. 16. Superior mesenteric Vein—This vein lies to the right of and—with the small intestine swung to the left—ante- rior to the superior mesenteric artery. It is formed by the veins from the ileal and jejunal portions of the small intes- tine ; the ileo-colic, colica dextra and colica media veins of the large intestine also contribute to it. The trunk, with the mesenteric artery, lies upon the duodenum ; both appear be- tween the latter and the body of the pancreas.