63 ABDOMINAL VISCERA IN SITU. 27. Hepatic Artery.—This trunk is directed to the right, superior to the pyloric end of the stomach ; it gives off the gastro-duodenal and the cystic (to the gall-bladder) arteries, after which it divides into branches, which enter the transverse fissure of the liver. Dissection.—Trace the cystic artery to the gall-bladder; dissect off the peritoneum from the exposed surface of that organ, from its fundus to its apex ; find the cystic duct and follow it to the ductus communis choledochus; clear the surface of the exposed portion of the latter duct. Kaise the branches of the hepatic artery and clean the surface of the vena porta?, lodged to the left of the ductus communis choledochus. 28. Cystic Artery.—This artery (vena comes), branch of the hepatic or gastro-duodenal, bifurcates and distributes to the gall-bladder, beneath its investiture of peritoneum. 29. Cystic Duct.—This is a short duct, from the apex of the gall-bladder, to the ductus communis choledochus ; it joins the latter at an acute angle. 30. Ductus Communis Choledochus.—The right and left hepatic ducts meet and form the hepatic ducts proper ; the latter is joined by the cystic duct, and the two determine the ductus communis choledochus. It courses in the right portion of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and disappears posterior to the first or ascending portion of the duodenum. 31. Stomach.—This organ occupies the left hypochondriac region, extending to the right into the epigastric region. It is swung in the abdominal cavity : to the left, by the oesophagus as the latter pierces the diaphragm, and by a reflection of peri- toneum to the diaphragm ; to the right, from the liver, by the gastro-hepatic omentum. The mobility and independence of the organ is insured, as before shown, by the cavity of the lesser peritoneum posterior to it. Its oesophageal extremity, or point of continuity with the oesophagus at the diaphragm, is situated superiorly and to the left; its pyloric extremity or the pylorus is to the right and continuous with the duodenum. To the left of the oesophagus is its fundus or larger end, which tilts su- periorly against the diaphragm ; the pyloric valve guards its communication with the first portion of the duodenum. Its varying calibre and its elevation to the left, superiorly, deter-