270 TKUNK. vical and the first, second, and third dorsal vertebrae, and the supraspinous ligaments bridging between the same ; exter- nally, by four serrations, to the exterior surfaces of the ribs, second to fifth, inclusive. The internal portion of the muscle is aponeurotic ; the aponeurosis being perforated by the inter- nal branches of the posterior divisions of the three superior dorsal spinal nerves. It binds down the splenitis capitis and splenius colli muscles. Dissection.—Dissect away the serratus posticus superior muscle. Clear the surfaces of the splenius capitis and splenius colli muscles. 20. Splenius Capiti§ Muscle, Plate 149 ; Pig. 1, Plate 150.— This muscle, of the third plane, is attached : internally and in- feriorly, to the spinous processes of several superior dorsal and the seventh cervical vertebrae, and to the inferior portion of the ligamentum nuchse ; externally and superiorly, to the external portion of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and to the mastoid process of the temporal bone. 21. Splenitis Colli Muscle.—This muscle, of the third plane, is attached as follows : internally and interiorly, to the spinous processes of several superior dorsal vertebrae, inferiorly to those affording attachment to the splenius capitis; externally and superiorly, to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of several superior cervical vertebrae. The fibres of this and the last-described muscle strap down or retain in place the cervical supplementary portions of the erector spinae muscle. Dissection.—Dissect away the splenius capitis, the splenius colli, and the serratus posticus inferior muscles from their attachments. Expose and then clear away the fascia upon the erector spinse muscle from the sacral region to the cranium. 22. Fascia upon the Erector Spinae Muscle, Plate 149.— This is a layer of fascia investing the surface of the erector spinae muscle, its divisions and supplementary muscles, from the sacrum to the cranium, through the lumbar, dorsal, and cervical regions. In the sacral region it is attached : to the spines of the sacrum, internally ; to the posterior spinous pro- cesses (inferior and superior) of the ilium (os innominatum), ex- ternally. In the lumbar region it is attached : to the spinous processes and supraspinous ligaments of the vertebrae, inter- nally ; to the exterior surface of the posterior aponeurosis of