17g LOWER EXTREMITY. tibia; it spreads, deltoid-shaped, over the inner side, of the ankle-joint to its distal attachment, to the astraga us and he border of the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneum (Plate 75). 3 Anterior Ligament, Plates 101 and 103 ; Fig. 1, Plate 102-This ligament has its proximal attachment to the ante- rior borders of the distal ends of the tibia and bbula; it bridges across the joint, to its distal attachment to the inner, the dorsal, and the outer surfaces of the distal portion of the neck of the astragalus. Some of its superficial fibres are con- tinued to the dorsal surface and the inner side of the scaphoid bone, blending with the dorsal astragalo-scaphoid ligament At its inner side it meets the internal lateral ligament; at its , outer side is the anterior slip of the external lateral ligament. Dissection -Turn the limb so as to bring the posterior surface of the anuSTntTpevmost; flex the foot. Clear the ligaments at the posterior face ; of the joint. 4 External and Internal lateral Ligaments of the Ankle. Joint Fi"-. 2, Plate 102.-At the outer side of the posterior lace £ to ankle-joint is seen the posterior slip of the externa lateral ligament; at its inner side the posterior border oi the internal lateral ligament presents. 5. Posterior lagament.-This ligament consists of scattered fibres that pass from the outer lip of the groove on the poste- rior surface of the distal end of the tibia (for the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and the tibialis posticus muscles), to the posterior surface of the body of the astragalus. AKTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. D„ Ptace the ^£^^^£^£2 ! SttTs STL ™ Reflect the, proximal portions to the proximal side of the ankle, where they may be cut. Terms of Relation.-The terms plantar surface dorsal surface outer side, inner side, proximal (toward the heel), anS«Z (from the. heel) will be applied to indicate, p«ion and direction of ligaments. The regions of the toot will be designated as digital, metatarsal, and tarsal.