410 HEAD ATSTD NECK. bral artery are : the posterior spinal (not illustrated) arises from the beginning of the artery, and joins its fellow of the opposite side, to form the single posterior spinal artery trunk, which passes inferiorly to the posterior surface of the spinal cord ; the anterior spinal, from the internal side of the artery, joins its fellow of the opposite side to form the single anterior spinal artery trunk, which descends to the anterior of the spinal cord; the inferior cerebellar, from the external side of the artery, distributes to the postero-inferior part of the cere- bellum. 2. Basilar Artery and its Branches.—This single, median- line, artery has an antero-superior course, at the anteroinfe- rior surface of the pons Varolii, from its inferior to its superior border. Its branches are projected to the right and left, as follows : short branches to the pons Varolii; the auditory, which pass to, and subsequently accompany, the auditory and facial nerves ; the anterior cerebellar, which are projected to the inferior surface of the cerebellum ; the superior cerebellar, which are continued upon the superior portion of the antero- inferior surface of the pons Varolii, to reach the superior sur- face of the cerebellum. 3. Posterior Cerebral Arteries and their Branches.—These arteries arise from the bifurcation of the basilar artery, oppo- site the superior border of the anteroinferior surface of the pons Varolii. They diverge, lateralty, over the crura cerebri, to distribute to the inferior surface of the cerebrum—its tem- poro-sphenoidal and occipital lobes. Its branches are : the posterior perforating, which are small arteries, that enter the foramina of the posterior perforated space (Plate 214) ; the posterior choroid (not illustrated) to the posterior of the cho- roid plexus. Dissection.—Insert small pieces of wood into the longitudinal fissure ami the fissure of Sylvius. Find the stumps of the internal carotid arteries, and trace their branches upon the anterior half of the base of the cerebrum. Display the anterior and posterior communicating arteries, and demonstrate the circle of Willis. 4. Internal Carotid Arteries and their Branches.—These arteries enter the cranium, at the apices of the petrous por- tions of the temporal bones, from the internal orifices of the