284 TRUNK. 64. ©ecipito-atlantal Capsular Ligament. — These liga- ments capsulate the joint formed by the articular facets upon the superior surfaces of the lateral masses of the atlas, and the condyles of the occipital bone. 65. Articulations of the Dorsal Vertebrae and Ribs, Fig. 3, Plate 155 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 156.—A rib forms two artic- ulations with the vertebral column (the eleventh and twelfth ribs excepted): the costo-vertebral, where the bodies of two vertebrae and an intervening intervertebral disc are apposed to the head of a rib ; the costo-transverse formed by the trans- verse process of a vertebra and the neck and tubercle of a rib. 66. Posterior Costo-transverse Ligaments, Fig. 2, Plate 155.—These ligaments—the superior, middle, and posterior costo-transverse—-have been described (page 278). Dissection.—Clear the anterior surfaces of the costo-vertebral articulations, of the portion of the dorsal region with ribs attached (Fig. 2, Plate 156), and display the anterior costo-vertebral ligaments. Dissect away one of the last- named ligaments and expose the interarticular ligament. Expose the anterior costo-transverse ligament and the anterior divisions of the dorsal-spinal nerves. 67. Anterior Costo-vertebral Ligament, Fig. 2, Plate 156. —This ligament, of which there is one for each of the twelve pairs of costo-vertebral articulations, bridges from the lateral surfaces of the bodies of two contiguous vertebrae, and the inter- vertebral disc between them, to the anterior surface of the head of the rib (in the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal, only from the respective bodies of these vertebrae). 68. Interarticular Ligament, Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 156.— This ligament, covered in by the anterior costo-vertebral, passes from the ridge dividing the articular face of the head of the rib (the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth excepted) to the op- posed border of the intervertebral disc. 69. Anterior Costo-transverse Ligament, Fig. 2, Plate 156. —This ligament spans between the inferior border of a trans- verse process of a dorsal vertebra to the superior border of the neck of the rib inferiorly to it. 70. Anterior Divisions of Dorsal-spinal Nerves, Plate 139 ; Fig. 1 Plate 140 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 156.—These nerves ap-