277 VEETEBRAL COLUMN AND ITS LIGAMENTS. Dissection.—Dissect away tlie multifields spinse, the obliquus inferior and superior, and the rectus capitis posticus major and minor muscles. Clear the surfaces of the vertebrae, the sacrum, and the coccyx ; also those of the pos- terior intervertebral and costo-transverse ligaments. 46. Posterior Surfaces of the Bones of the Vertebral Col- umn, Plates 147 and 155.—Of the twenty-four vertebrae—seven cervical, twelve dorsal, and five lumbar—their spinous pro- cesses (one to each), their right and left laminae (two to each), their articular processes (two superior and two inferior to each), and their transverse processes (two to each) form the superior portion of the posterior surface of the vertebral column. In- feriorly to them are the posterior surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx. 47. Posterior Ligaments of the Cervical Vertebrae, Fig. 1, Plate 155.—The posterior occipito-atlantal bridges between the superior border of the posterior arch of the atlas (first cervical vertebra) and the occipital bone. The posterior atlanto-axial passes from the superior border of the laminae of the axis (sec- ond cervical vertebra) to the inferior border of the posterior arch of the atlas. The ligamentum subjiavum stretches from the superior border of the laminae of an inferior vertebra to the inferior border of the laminae of the vertebra superiorly to it. The capsular ligaments capsulate the facets of the opposed articular processes—the two superior of an inferior vertebra and the two inferior of the vertebra superiorly to it. 4§. Posterior Ligaments of the J>©rsal Vertebrae, Fig. 2, Plate 155.—The supraspinous extends continuously from tip to tip of the spinous processes, from that of the seventh cervi- cal to that of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. The interspinous bridge between the opposite superior and inferior borders of the spinous processes. The inferior portions of the capsular of the articular processes, right and left, are demonstrable. The ligamenta sub/lava are not seen posteriorly, as in the cervical region, because of the over-lapping of the laminae of the ver- tebrae. 49. Posterior Ligaments of the Lumbar Vertebrae, Fig. 3, Plate 155.—The supraspinous is continued from the spinous process of the twelfth dorsal vertebra to the tips of the pro-