NASAL CAVITIES AND CONTIGUOUS PARTS. 407 209 ; Fig. 1, Plate 210) and enters the buccal cavity, to dis- tribute as before described (page 392) and illustrated (Fig. 2, Plate 206) ; the posterior palatine nerve (Fig. 1, Plate 210) has an inferior course, through the accessory palatine canal, from which it emerges (PJate 199) to distribute to the soft palate ; the external palatine nerve, when present (ab- sent in the dissection Fig. 1, Plate 210), runs inferiorly through the external palatine canal to supply parts of the soft palate. The pterygo-palatine nerve, when present, is projected, poste- riorly, through the pterygo-palatine canal for distribution to the pharynx. 19. Internal Maxillary Artery and its Branches: Plate 209 ; Fig. 1, Plate 210.—The external portion of this artery was before described (page 348) and illustrated (Plate 187). Its internal portion is lodged in the spheno-palatine fossa, where it gives off the following branches : two, very small, branches, the Vidian artery and the pterygopalatine artery', are projected posteriorly into the Vidian and the pterygo- palatine canals, respectively—they accompany the nerves of the same name, described above—and distribute to the mucous membrane of the superior part of the anterior pharyngeal wall ; the descending palatine artery runs, inferiorly, in the posterior palatine canal to enter the buccal cavity, as before de- scribed (page 392) and illustrated (Fig. 2, Plate 206); and the spheno-palatine, its terminal branch, enters a nasal cavity and distributes to the interior of its walls, as before described (page 404) and illustrated (Plate 209). Dissection.—Saw, antero-posteriorly, through the superior maxillary bone, or, at the level of the malar process of the superior maxillary bone. Place the two pieces, as sectioned, in the position shown in Fig. 2, Plate 210. 20. Maxillary Sinus (Antrum of Hignmore), Fig. 2, Plate 210.—This is a cavity in the body of the superior maxillary bone ; it communicates with a nasal cavity, by an opening in the external wall of the middle meatus (page 406 ; Fig. 1, Plate 210), through which the mucous membrane of nasal cavity passes to line the sinus. A maxillary sinus has the following walls: an internal, which is the external wall of the nasal cavity of the side ; an antero-external, which is the antero- external portion of the body of th esuperior maxillary bone;