HEAD AND NECK. 424 anteriorly to the corpora quadrigemina, bridges between the posterior portions of the thalami optici ; a middle commissure presents as a broad band of grey neural tissue, which spans the ventricular cavity between the internal surfaces of the thalami optici. By the foramen of Monro, before described (page 420) and illustrated (Plate 216 ; Fig. l, Plate 217) the third ventricle communicates with the right and left lateral or first and second ventricles. At the posterior wall of the third ventricle, and interiorly to the posterior commissure of the same, a small opening presents, the anterior orifice of the aque- duct of Sylvius (a bristle protrudes from it). Dissection.—Eeplace the velum interpositum (Fig. 2, Plate 217) and the fornix (Fig. 1, Plate 217) ; cut the fornix, the right and the left choroid plexus, and the velum interpositum, along the section line transversely across the fornix and choroid plexuses (Fig. 1, Plate 217) ; remove the anterior portions of the sectioned parts, as in Fig. 2, Plate 218. Cut, transversely, through the external wall of the left lateral ventricle—along the posterior transverse sec- tion line shown at the left side of Fig. 1, Plate 218—down to the floor of the middle cornu of the ventricle ; continue, by a curved incision, anteriorly, at the level of the floor of the cornu (Fig. 2, Plate 218) ; make a transverse cut through the cerebral mass—along the anterior transverse section line at the left side of Fig. 1, Plate 218—as far as the middle of the left thalamus opti- cus ; then remove the lateral wedge of the included part of cerebrum, by an oblique cut through the posterior portion of the left thalamus opticus. 37. Middle Cornu of a Lateral Ventricle of the Brain, and its Contained Part§, Fig. 2, Plate 218.—This is the recess of a cavity of a lateral ventricle, into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of a hemisphere of the cerebrum. Its direction is tortuous, viz.: posteriorly, externally, inferiorly, anteriorly, and internally. Its internal wall is formed by the Mppocampus major, which is the intraventricular projection of a cerebral convolution. A posterior pillar of the fornix, and a choroid plexus are re- flected into this cornu, from the cavity of a lateral ventricle— the fornix here presents its corpus fimbriatum portion. The latter and tlie choroid plexus are applied to the internal wall of a middle cornu, upon the hippocampus major. The choroid plexus here receives the anterior choroid artery. Dissection.—Cut the right hemisphere of the cerebrum along the anterior, transverse section line shown at the right side of Fig. 1, Plate 218 ; cut along the section line directed anteriorly from the last named line out into the an- terior portion of the longitudinal fissure (Fig. 1, Plate 218).