359 ANTEROLATERAL AREA OF THE NECK. 13. Facial Vein and its Tributary Branches.—This vein appears from the face (page 332), over the inferior border of the outer third of the inferior maxillary bone. It has an inferior and external course, to its emptying into the internal jugular vein. In its course it receives tributary veins : the submental, the submaxillary anastomosing branch of the external jugu- lar, the lingual, and the superior thyroid. Dissection.—Expose (Plate 192) portions of the following parts : digastric (posterior belly), stylo-hyoid, and hyo-glossus muscles ; liyoid bone ; submaxil- lary gland ; internal jugular vein ; common, internal, and external carotid ar- teries ; superior thyroid, lingual, facial, and occipital branches of the external carotid artery; hypoglossal, descendens noni, and superior laryngeal nerves. Find and trace (Plate 192), interiorly, the anterior jugular vein from its anasto- mosis with the submental vein. Clear (Plate 192), commencing superiorly, portions of the mylo-hyoid, digastric (anterior belly), thyro-hyoid, omo-hyoid (anterior belly), and sterno-hyoid muscles. 14. Anterior Jugular Vein, Plate 192.—This vein runs, in- feriorly, from the submental vein, anteriorly to the digastric (anterior belly), mylo-hyoid, and sterno-hyoid muscles, to the point where it receives the inferior anastomosing branch of the external jugular vein ; it then disappears posteriorly to the sternal portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. Dissection.—Reverse the position of the head and neck on the block, so as to present its left side uppermost; dissect the left antero-lateral area of the neck to the same stage of the dissection, as the right side in Plate 192, follow- ing the text, from the close of paragraph 2 to the close of paragraph 14. Then remove the block from under the head and neck, and steady the head in the position shown in Plate 193. Clear additional, portions of the, right and left, internal jugular vein, descendens noni nerve, and common carotid artery (Plate 193). Section (Plate 192) the right and left anterior jugular veins ; the cervico- facial division of the facial nerve, and the sternal, clavicular, and acromial nerves. Dissect away the veins and the inferior portions of the nerves. Clear (Plate 193) the surfaces of the, right and left, sterno-hyoid muscles and the uniting median-line portion of intermuscular fascia between them. 15. Sterno-hyoid Muscle, Plates 190, 192 and 193.—This muscle extends, parallel with the median line, from the hyoid bone (Plate 190), superiorly, to the point where it disappears inferiorly, posteriorly to the sternal portion of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle. 16. Median-line Intermuscular Fascia, Plate 193.—This is a stretch of fascia—varying in width with age and sex—be- tween the internal borders of the right and left sterno-hyoid