76 TKUNK. IS. Sacra Media Artery, Plates 38, 39, 40, and 41.—This artery (venae comites) continues the trunk of the abdominal aorta into the pelvic cavity. It passes to the middle of the anterior surface of the sacrum from beneath the left common iliac vein, continuing, inferiorly, to the coccyx ; it gives off la- teral branches opposite each segment of the sacrum, which anastomose with branches of the lateral sacral arteries. 14. Lateral Sacral Artery, Plates 39 and 40.—This artery (venae comites) springs from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac, courses, internally, to the external half of the anterior surface of the second segment of the sacrum, whence it con- tinues, inferiorly, to the coccyx. It affords branches to con- tiguous muscles; others, which enter the anterior sacral fora- mina ; and still others, which anastomose with the sacra media. 15. Iliolumbar Artery, Plates 38, 39, 40, and 41.—This artery (venae comites), from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac, passes, superiorly and externally, posterior to the^ psoas magnus muscle, to distribute upon the interior of the iliacus internus and quadratus lumborum muscles, and in the lateral planes of the abdominal parietes. Its branches anastomose with the inferior lumbar branches of the abdominal aorta, and with the deep circumflex iliac branch of the external iliac. 16. Gluteal Artery, Plates 40 and 46.—This artery (vena comes) is the continuation of the posterior trunk of the inter- nal iliac. It hooks beneath the lumbo-sacral cord of the sacral plexus, to leave the pelvic cavity by the great sacro-sciatic fora- men above the pyriformis muscle. DissECTioN.-Section the gluteal, lateral sacral and iliolumbar arteries (Plate 40). Eemove the bifurcation of the common iliac artery. Clean the chain of lumbar sympathetic ganglia and their branches, between the psoas magnus muscle and the bodies of the lumbar vertebrse ; also the exposed por- tions of the lumbar arteries. 17. Lumbar Sympathetic Ganglia, etc., Plates 33, 38 and 41 —These four ganglia are lodged as stated in the preceding dissection clause. They have branches of communication with each other ; inferiorly, the chain is continued, to the first sacral ganglion of the pelvis; superiorly, the communicating branch from the first ganglion continues to the twelfth dorsal ganglion