HEAD AND NECK. 396 and the mucous membrane, interiorly; dissect away the thyro-hyoid ligament and the half of the thyro-hyoid membrane, exposing (Fig. 2, Plate 207) the submucous tissue exteriorly to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Trace (Fig. 2, Plate 207), interiorly, the superior laryngeal nerve and the internal laryngeal artery ; crowd them, and the muscle tissue, interiorly to the ala of the thyroid cartilage (Fig. 2, Plate 207), internally from the cartilage, till the anterior attachment of the thyro-arytenoid muscle is seen ; cut the thyroid carti- lage vertically (Fig. 2, Plate 207), externally to the attachment of the muscle. Dissect (Fig. 2, Plate 207) the crico-thyroid muscle from its thyroid cartilage attachment; reflect it to the cricoid cartilage and cut it away, leaving a stump. Disarticulate the right crico-thyroid joint, and dissect away the posterior part of the right ala of the thyroid cartilage (Fig. 2, Plate 207). Display (Fig. 2, Plate 207) the branches of the superior laryngeal nerve and internal laryngeal artery. Trace (Fig. 2, Plate 207j, superiorly, by cutting away the posterior crico-aryte- noid muscle, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the inferior laryngeal artery; find the branches of the nerve to the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, and its communicating branch with the superior laryngeal nerve ; expose the distri- bution of the artery and its anastomosis with the cricoid artery. Clear, and define (Fig. 2, Plate 207), the exterior surfaces of the cricoid cartilage, and the following intrinsic muscles of the larynx : the lateral crico-arytenoid, the thyro-arytenoid, the thyro-epiglottidean, and the aryteno-epiglottidean. 11. Superior Laryngeal Nerve, Plate 207.—This nerve has been described (page 365) and illustrated (Plates 192 to 197, inclusive) to the point where it disappears with the internal laryngeal artery (page 367), between the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, posteriorly, and the thyro-hyoid muscle, anteriorly. The nerve perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane (Fig. 1, Plate 207) to the submucous plane of tissue interiorly to the mem- brane (Fig. 2, Plate 207). Its several branches are: a middle (one or more), laryngeal branch (or branches), which is con- tinued to the mucous-membrane lining of the larynx ; a supe- rior, Ungual branch, that passes to the mucous membrane of the dorsum of the base of the tongue, and of the pharynx ; an in- ferior, communicating branch, which communicates with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. 12. Internal Laryngeal Artery.—This artery (vense comi- tes). branch of the superior thyroid, has been described (page 367) and illustrated (Plate 194). It accompanies the last-de- scribed nerve through the thyro-hyoid membrane (Fig. 1, Plate 207), and distributes to the interior tissues of the larynx, to the base of the tongue, etc. 13. Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve and it§ Branches.—This nerve has been described (pages 242, 366, 372) and illustrated