405 NASAL CAVITIES AND CONTIGUOUS PARTS. 13. Posterior Ethmoidal Artery.—This artery (vense co- mites) enters a nasal , cavity through its superior wall, posteri- orly to the last-described artery. It bifurcates into an external and an internal branch : the external branch distributes in the submucous plane upon the superior turbinate process of the ethmoid bone, and in the superior meatus ; the internal branch ramifies in the submucous plane of the mid-portion of the su- perior part of the lateral face of the nasal septum. 14. Nasal Nerve.—This nerve enters through the superior wall of the cavity in company with the anterior ethmoidal ar- tery (page 342 ; Plate 186). It bifurcates into an external and an internal branch, which accompany, respectively, the branches of the anterior ethmoidal artery. The external branch perfo- rates the antero-lateral wall of the nasal cavity, to appear at its exterior surface in the subcutaneous plane (page 342 ; Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; Plate 183 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184). 15. Frontal Sinuses.—These are aright and a left space, di- vided by a median-line septum, between the exterior and inte- rior tables of the supra-orbital area of the frontal bone. They are produced by the absorption of the diploe of that region of the bone. They are lined by mucous membrane, continued into them from the nasal cavities through the right and left infun- dibulum openings. 16. Sphenoidal Sinuses.—These are a right and a left space, divided by a median-line septum, in the body of the sphenoid bone. They are lined by mucous membrane, continued into them from the nasal cavities, through the openings of the sphe- noidal sinuses. Dissection.—Cut away, with the curved scissors, the turbinate bone and the turbinate processes of the ethmoid bone. Find and demonstrate the openings through the external and superior walls of the nasal cavity, which communi- cate with contiguous cavities. 17. Openings of Communication of a Nasal Cavity with Contiguous Cavities.—The openings through the external wall are partially or completely concealed by the turbinate bone and the turbiuate processes of the ethmoid bone (Plate 209). They are located as follows (Fig. 1, Plate 210): the nasal duct open- ing, at the anterior of an inferior meatus, is the communication