332 HEAD AND NECK. the level of, and posteriorly to, the neck of the condyloid pro- cess of the inferior maxillary bone, where it bifurcates into the superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries. The latter disappears, to the deep region of the face (page 348), posteriorly to the neck of the condyloid process. 15. Auriculotemporal Nerve: Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; Plate 183 ; Fig. 2, Plate 184.—This nerve has a superior course, to the scalp (page 320 ; Plate 177), between the superficial temporal artery and the auricle. It emerges from the deep region of the face, posteriorly to the temporo-maxillary articulation. Dissection.—Clear (Plate 183) the surfaces of the masseter and levator labii superioris proprius muscles. Expose (Plate 183) the facial portion of the facial vein ; also the same of the facial artery with its branches—inferior labial, in- ferior coronary, superior coronary, lateral nasal artery, and angular—which may be cut, where required, from out of their muscle beddings depressor anguli oris (orbicularis oris and levator labii superioris alseque nasi muscles). Clear (Fig. 2, Plate 183), completely, the surfaces of the compressor naris and pyramidalis nasi muscles. 16. Masseter Muscle, Plate 181 ; Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; and Plate 183.—This muscle is attached superiorly (Plates 181 and 183), by two portions: an anterior, to the inferior border of the anterior part of the zygomatic arch ; and a posterior to the in- ferior border of the posterior part, and the internal surface of, the zygomatic arch. Inferiorly (Plates 181 and 183), the por- tions are attached as follows: the anterior passes, inferiorly and posteriorly, to the inferior part of the external surface of the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone ; the posterior bridges, inferiorly to the superior part of the external surface of the ra- mus, and the inferior portion of the external surface of the coronoid process of, the same bone. 17. Levator Labii Superioris Proprius Muscle—This mus- cle is attached : superiorly, inferiorly to the inferior rim of the orbital fossa (Plate 181); inferiorly, it blends with the mid- dle (of the half) of the superior portion of the orbicularis oris muscle (Plate 183), posteriorly to the zygomaticus minor mus- cle (Fig. 2, Plate 182). 18. Facial Vein, Fig. 2, Plate 182, and Plate 183.-This vessel emerges from the posterior of the inferior portion of the