TRUNK. 98 inch in length, is an expansion of the urethra, which is situated just within the meatus urinarius, and is lodged in the glans portion of the corpus spongiosum. The mucous membrane of the urethra presents the orifices of sinuses, known as lacunae ; the largest of these is located in the superior wall of the fossa navicularis—the lacuna magna. Dissection.—Detach the bladder and penis from the dissecting board. Cut through the membranous portion of the urethra. Cut the vesiculse senii- nales at the points of junction of their ducts with the vasa def erentia and dissect them from the bladder; straighten the convoluted tube of a vesicula seminalis. 16. Prostate, Plates 12, 55, and Fig. 1, Plate 56.—This is a muscular organ, which encloses two canals : one for the transit of the ejaculatory ducts ; the other for the urethra. Its muscu- lar structure is continuous with the muscle coat of the neck of the bladder, and with that of the membranous portion of the urethra. In the prostatic portion of the urethra are mucous glands, known as the prostatic follicles, which have led to the organ being called the prostate gland ; this appellation is in- correct, as its follicles are of but secondary importance. Ante- riorly, it is a single organ, but, posteriorly, it is divided by the cleft at its base (page 26) into a right and a left lobe. The portion inferior to the neck of the bladder forms an isthmus, which unites its two lobes ; this isthmus may, in old age, be- come hypertrophied, which circumstance has led to its being called the middle lobe of the prostate; normally the organ has no middle lobe. 17. Vesiculae Seminalcs, Pig. 1, Plate 55.—A vesicula semi- nalis will be found upon dissection to be a single convoluted tube about six inches long ; from the tube blind sacs are pro- jected at intervals. 18. Penis, Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 56, and Fig. 1, Plate 55.— The enveloping sheaths, the vessels and the nerves of this organ are presented in the section Fig. 2, Plate 56 ; these several parts were described (pages 44, 45 and 46) and illus- trated (Plate 22) in situ. The penis is formed by three longi- tudinal bodies or cylinders : the right and left corpus caverno- sum, and the corpus spongiosum. The corpora cavernosa are attached by their crura and b}^ the ischio-cavernosi muscles to the rami of the pubic arch