TRUNK. 58 7. Cesser Peritoneum and Cavity of the Same, Plate 31.— The lesser peritoneum is spread, and forms its cavity, as fol- lows : its anterior portion invests the postero-inferior surface of the stomach ; superiorly to the stomach, it forms the pos- terior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum ; inferiorly to the stomach, it spreads as the posterior layer of the two layers of serous membrane between the greater curvature of the stom- ach and the transverse colon ; its posterior portion covers the anterior surface of the pancreas and the abdominal vessels; and lines the antero-superior surface of the portion of the greater peritoneum from the inferior of the transverse colon to the posterior wall of the abdomen. 8. Great Omentum or Peritoneal Apron, Plates 30 and 31. This, reduplication of the greater peritoneum, hangs in the cavity of the greater peritoneum from the transverse colon. It spreads over the small intestine, hanging lower on the left than on the right side. Superiorly, it spreads, to the right and left, upon the ascending and the descending portions of the colon, respectively. 9. Liver, Plate 30.—This organ is located interiorly to the right lower ribs and the end of the sternum, and projects inte- riorly to the left lower costal cartilages. The lower half of its left lobe bridges between the right and the left ribs in the epi- gastric region, covering the lesser curvature of the stomach. 10. Oall-Bladder—The fundus of the gall-bladder presents below the free border of the liver, to the right of the notch, at about the extremity of the cartilage of the right tenth rib. 11. stomach.—This viscus lies posteriorly to the left lobe of the liver, and interiorly to the left lower ribs and cartilages. Its inferior border projects below the left lobe of the liver. 12. Small Intestines.—Convolutions of this intestine will be found projecting from beneath the inferior border of the out- spread great omentum or peritoneal apron. Dissection.—Eaise the great omentum, and reflect it, superiorly, upon the anterior face of the thorax ; carry the transverse colon upward with it.