160 LOWER EXTREMITY. tar course, relations, division into four terminal tendons, and the digital attachments of the latter, were before described (pages 139 and 142) and illustrated (Plates 79 and 80). 50. Nerves to the Flexor Longus Digitorum Huscle, Plate 88.—These nerves may now be traced to the muscle : one from the internal popliteal nerve (page 158); the other from the pos- terior tibial branch to the flexor longus pollicis muscle. Dissection.—Hook the posterior tibial nerve to the inner side; dissect away the (vense comites) of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries ; note the branches of the distal portion of the popliteal artery and its bifurcation at the lower border of the poplitens muscle. Follow the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial, and the peroneal arteries. 51. Popliteal Artery, Plates 88 and 90.—The distal ter- mination of this artery is at the distal border of the poplitens muscle, where it bifurcates into the anterior and the posterior tibial arteries. 52. Iaferior Internal and External Articular Arteries.— These arteries (venae comites) are given off from the sides of the distal portion of the popliteal artery. They wind around the sides of the proximal ends of the tibia and fibula, respec- tively, to contribute to the peri-articular plexuses at the antero- lateral areas of the knee. 53. Anterior Tibial Artery, Plates 88, 90, 73, and 74.— This artery passes to the anterior surface of the tibiofibular inter- osseous ligament, through the deficiency at the proximal end of the ligament (pages 130 and 132). 54. Posterior Tibial Artery, Plate 88.—This artery (vense comites) has a distal course to the inner side of the calcaneum, where it bifurcates into the internal and the external plantar arteries (pages 139 and 140; Plates 79 and 81). It is lodged be- tween the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor longus digitornm muscles. 55. Peroneal Artery.—This artery (venae comites) is given off from the last-described artery, between the origin of the latter and the proximal end of the flexor longus pollicis mus- cle ; it runs parallel with, and to the outer side of, its parent trunk; it passes to the anterior surface of the pollicis muscle.