ANTERIOR OF THIGH. 113 adductor longus and magnus muscles posteriorly; the vastus interims muscle to the outer side. 23. Internal or Long Saphenous Nerve.—This nerve is given off from the inner side of the anterior crural ; it accom- panies the femoral artery into Hunter's canal. Dissection.—Extend the limb ; section the tensor vaginae femoris muscle at its distal attachment to the fascia lata and reflect it superiorly ; in raising it from its bed note the branch from the inferior gluteal nerve, that enters its deep surface. Clear the muscle surfaces beneath the tensor vaginae femoris, preserving the ramifications of arteries. 24. Gluteus Medius and Minimus Muscles, Plates 62, 63, 64 and 65.—The anterior borders of these two muscles present proximal to the trochanter major and to the outer side of the proximal end of the rectus femoris muscle. 25. Rec tus Femoris Muscle, Plates 59, 61 and 62.—This is the superficial, anterior, straight muscle of the thigh; its proximal attachments are to the inferior spinous process of the os innominatum and by a reflected tendon, from a point upon the superior surface of the cotyloid cavity or acetabulum of the same bone ; its distal attachment is at the base or proxi- mal border of the patella. Dissection.—Eaise the rectus femoris muscle from its bed; be careful not to destroy subjacent nerves. Section it (Plate 62) and reflect its halves, superiorly and inferiorly. In reflecting its proximal portion, note its supply- ing nerve, from the anterior crural; also its arterial supply, from the ex- ternal circumflex artery. Slit open the fascial wall of Hunter's canal and distinguish the contained vessels and nerves; in doing so the femoral artery and the internal saphenous nerve may be hooked to the inner side, and the nerves to the vastus internus muscle to the outer side, in order to bring into view the femoral vein and the profunda femoris artery. 26. Contents of Hunter's Canal, Plate 63.—The femoral artery continues from Scarpa's triangle to the inner side of the shaft of the femur, entering Hunter's canal, where it lies upon the anterior surfaces of the adductor longus and magnus muscles ; as lodged in the canal, it gives off two or three branches to the vastus internus muscle. At the distal end of the canal the artery passes through the femoral opening in the adductor magnus muscle. The femoral vein takes the same 8