TRUNK. 266 1. Occipital Artery, Plate 148.—This artery (ven?e comites) emerges from the superior portion of the muscles of the neck, and passes to the subcutaneous plane of the occipital region of the scalp. 2. Occipitalis Major Nerve.—This, the internal (cutaneous) branch of the posterior division of the second cervical spinal nerve, appears at the external border of the occipital portion of the trapezius muscle, and ramifies superiorly in the subcu- taneous plane of the scalp. 3. Internal (Cutaneous) Branch of the Posterior Division of the Third Cervical Spina! Nerve.—This nerve emerges in- feriorly to the last-described nerve, and has the same course. 4. Occipitalis Minor Nerve.—This nerve, a branch from the cervical plexus, runs superiorly, along the posterior border j of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle ; it enters the subcutane- ous plane of the scalp. 5. Internal (Cutaneous) Branches of the Posterior Divis- ions of the Spinal Nerves.—These nerves emerge to the subcu- taneous plane of the back, as follows : the fourth and fifth cer- vical, the first to eleventh dorsal, and the sacral appear close to the median line, while the twelfth dorsal and the first to I fifth lumbar perforate farther from it. They are at a variable 8 distance from each other, and have a course externally. (The | regularity of the emergence of these nerves varies in different subjects.) 6. Arteries of the Subcutaneous Plane.—These small ar- j teries appear with, and accompany, the last-described branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. 7. Twelfth Intercostal, Ilio-hypogastrie, and Ilio-inguinal Nerves.—Portions of these nerves appear at the inferior area of the lumbar region, superiorly to, and parallel with, the crest of the ilium. The lateral cutaneous branch of the former and the iliac branches of the two latter pass into the subcutane- j ous plane of the gluteal region. 8. Superficial Fascia.—A continuous layer of fascia invests ] the first muscle plane of the back ; the same is continued to the external surfaces of the neck, thorax, and abdomen.