PARTS OF THE BRAIN. 417 cinereum, anteriorly ; the crura cerebri, right and left, later- ally; and the posterior perforated space, posteriorly. They are the terminal ends of the anterior pillars of the fornix (Fig. 2, Plate 217). 11. Posterior Perforated Space.—This triangular space is located between : the corpora mamm ill aria, anteriorly ; the crura cerebri, laterally ; and the pons Varolii, posteriorly. Its perforations give transit to small arterial twigs, from the bifur- cation of the basilar artery into the posterior cerebral arte- ries (Plate 211), which pass, superiorly, into the cerebrum, to supply the thalami optici, corpora quadrigemina, etc. 12. Pons Varolii—The anteroinferior surface of this part of the brain presents a somewhat quadrangular area. Ante- riorly from it, the crura cerebri are projected superiorly ; pos- teriorly and inferiorly, it is continuous with the medulla ob- longata ; laterally, the right and left middle or pons Varolii peduncles of the cerebellum pass to the right and left hemi- sphere of that part of the brain. 13. medulla Oblongata.—This part of the brain is contin- ued superiorly from the spinal cord—in fact, it is the cranial portion of the cord ; it passes, anteriorly and superiorly, into the pons Varolii and cerebellum. 14. Cerebellum.—The basal surface of this part of the brain shows it lodged between the medulla oblongata, inferi- orly, and the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, superiorly. Irs anteroinferior surface extends, laterally and posteriorly, from the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii; its mid-portion being superposed upon the postero-superior surfaces of the two latter parts of the brain. 15. Exterior Origins of the Twelve Pairs of Cranial Nerves, Plates 211 and 214 ; Fig. 1, Plate 222.—The twelve pairs of cranial nerves present their exterior origins from the brain, at the basal surfaces of the cerebrum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata. The first or olfactory nerves are projected, anteriorly, from the cerebrum, from points anteriorly to the anterior perforated spaces (Plate 214); they are lodged in the olfactory sulci 27