HEAD AND NECK. 358 der of the splenitis capitis muscle ; it lias a superior course to the scalp (page 320 ; Plate 177). Dissection.—Commencing superiorly, clear the surfaces of the portions of muscles between the borders of the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles (Plate 192) ; do not cut away the nerves and vessels, that lie upon the exposed portions of the muscles. 9. €omplexu§, Splenitis Capitis, Levator An gull Scapulae, Scalenus Posticus, Scalenus Medius, and Omo-hyoid (posterior belly) Muscles, Plate 192.—Commencing superiorly, portions of these muscles present, in order, between the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles. Posteriorly to the complexus are the occipitalis major nerve, the branch of the third cervical- spinal nerve, and the occipital artery ; externally to the levator anguli scapulas are the nerve to the trapezius muscle, and the inferior and external portion of the spinal accessory nerve; an- teriorly to the scalenus medius is the acromial nerve ; ante- riorly to the scalenus medius and omohyoid (posterior belly) muscles are the clavicular nerve and the external jugular vein. Dissection.—Display (Plate 192), in a plane posteriorly to the omo-hyoid (posterior belly), portions of the superficial cervical, suprascapular, subclavian, and posterior scapular arteries ; also portions of the brachial plexus of nerves, scalenus anticus muscle, and subclavian vein. Clear (Plate 192) the inferior portion of the parotid gland ; find the cervico-facial division of the facial nerve, and follow its inframaxillary branch to the neck. Display (Plate 192), in the subfascial plane of the submaxillary region, the submaxillary anastomosing branch of the external jugular vein, and the facial vein with its tributary branches ; also the confluence of the facial and internal jugular veins. 10. Parotid Gland, Plates 192 to 197, inclusive.—The pos- terior portion of this gland (page 330 ; Fig. 2, Plate 182) is lodged between the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone and the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, 11. Cervico-facial I>ivi§ion of the Facial Nerve.—This nerve emerges from between the parotid gland and the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone; it projects its inframaxillary branch to the neck (platysma myoides muscle). 12. Submaxillary Anastomosing Branch of the External Jugular Vein, Plates 192 and 193.—This vein (of variable size) runs posteriorly to, and parallel with, the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone, from the external jugular to the facial vein.