194 UPPER EXTREMITY. rior border of the clavicle ; the body (anterior surface and ex- ternal border) and the coracoid process of the scapula; the shaft and condyles of the humerus ; the proximal ends of the radius and ulna. Dissection.—Make the skin incisions 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of Figure 9 (page 193) ; reflect skin flaps as indicated, thereby exposing the anterior of the thorax and arm; make a circular incision around the nipple. Expose the mamma (especially in the female) and its vessels; dissect the gland from the superficial fascia and section it so as to see its structure. As the mamma is removed, section its supplying vessels, at the points where they emerge through the thoracic parietes and wind over the anterior fold of the axilla. 1. Mamma, Plate 114.—This is one of two glands, lodged, between a superficial and a deep layer of the subcutaneous tis- sue, upon the fascia of the anterior parietes of the thorax. At the nipple the orifices of the lactiferous tubes appear, which maybe demonstrated, at times, by the introduction of bristles; it presents, on section, a dense, milk-white structure. Dissection.—Remove the subcutaneous tissue from the fascia of the an- terior of the thorax and the anterior of the arm. Expose and preserve the vessels and nerves emerging at the interspaces between the costal cartilages; note the thoracic attachment of the platysma myoides muscle; also the ends of the sternal, clavicular, and acromial nerves, from the cervical plexus. 2. Perforating Branches of the Internal Mammary Artery, Plates 114 and 115.—At the interspaces between the costal cartilages branches (venae comites) from the internal mammary artery perforate to the subcutaneous plane of the thoracic parietes. In females these arteries are larger than in males. 3. Anterior Cutaneous Branches of the Intercostal Nerves. —The anterior cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves emerge through the thoracic parietes, with the last-described arteries. i 4. Platysma Myoides Muscle, Plate 115.—This subcutane- ous muscle has its thoracic attachment to the superficial fascia inferiorly to, and parallel with, the clavicle. 5. Sternal, Clavicular, and Acromial IVerves of the Cer- vical Plexus.—The terminal portions of these nerves emerge! into the subcutaneous tissue of the respective areas of theiij distribution.