40 TRUNK. Dissection.—Section the levator ani et vaginfe muscle (Plate 18) and re- flect its internal portion to the median line—anteriorly and posteriorly to the rectnm-and to the coccyx ; at these points the mnscle may be cut away. The part of the muscle, that converges to the rectum, may be disposed of as in the male (page 25). 44. Coccygeua Muscle—See Male Perineum, page 25. 45. Rectovesical Fascia, Plate 19.—This plane of fascia is nearly the same as in the male (page 25 ; Plate 10). The right and left portions of the fascia form, as m the male, a sling, at the outlet of the pelvis, to support the viscera there presenting. In the female it differs from the male, in that it is perforated by the vagina. Dissection.—Section the recto-vesical fascia upon the rectal and vaginal walls and reflect it, externally, to the pubic arch and the ischium. Note the close'union of the rectal and vaginal outlets ; also, the same of the urethral and vaginal outlets. Display the areolar tissue and vessels between the fascia and the presenting viscera. Dissect the visceral outlets apart sufficiently to demonstrate the three canals : urethral, vaginal, and rectal. 46 Outlets of the Pelvic Viscera and the Perineal Body, Plates 13 to 19, inclusive.—The urethra, vagina, and rectum present in order, antero-posteriorly (Plate 19). The situation of the so-called perineal body, between the vaginal and rectal outlets, is occupied by the parts which converge to form the tendinous centre of the perineum (Plates 13 to 17, inclusive), and the raphe between the vagina? portions of the levatores am et vaginge muscles (Plate 18). Interiorly to these parts the outlets of the vagina and rectum are intimately approximated. DissECTioN.-Eemove the oakum from the vagina and rectum. Put a hook into the urethra and drag it anteriorly ; dissect the antero-superior wall of the va-ina from it, inferiorly; once started the separation of the two canals is easily effected. As the separation progresses drag upon the urethra, anteriorly, and the vagina, posteriorly, until the base of the bladder is brought into view. 47. Urethra, Fig. 1, Plate 20.—The female urethra or uri- nary canal is about one inch and one-half long ; it forms a nip- ple-like projection from the bladder. The canal may be dilated with the finger, so as to enter the bladder. 48. Bladder.—The base of this organ is quite thin, as com- pared with the opposed vaginal wall; the two will have been