REGION OF THE BACK. 273 described as a separate muscle, under the name of the biven- ter cermets). 29. Spinalis Dorsi Muscle, Plate 151.—This muscle, of the fourth plane, is attached: interiorly, to the spinous pro- cesses of a few inferior dorsal vertebrae ; superiorly, to the spinous processes of several superior dorsal vertebra?. Dissection.—Cut away the complexus, the trachelo-mastoid, and the trans- versalis cervicis muscles from their attachments. Cut (page 271), progressing interiorly, the longissimus dorsi division of the erector spinas muscle, from its dorsal vertebras and rib attachments; also the sacro-lumbalis division from its rib attachments. Cut away the erector spinas muscle proper from the lum- bar vertebras and from the ilium (os innominatum), as in Plate 152. In dis- secting away these muscles be careful to leave, in situ, the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves and their accompanying arteries. Dissect away the spina- lis dorsi muscle and clear the surfaces of the semispinalis dorsi and the semi- spinalis colli muscles. 30. Semispinalis Dorsi and Semispinalis Colli Muscles, Plate 152, Fig. 2, Plate 150.—These muscles form the fifth muscle plane of the back. The semispinalis dorsi is attached : in- teriorly, to the spinous processes of some of the superior lumbar and inferior dorsal vertebras, also to the transverse processes of the inferior dorsal vertebrae ; superiorly, to the spinous processes of the superior dorsal and several inferior cervical vertebrae. The semispinalis colli is attached : interi- orly, to the transverse processes of the superior dorsal vertebrae ; superiorly, to the spinous processes of the middle cervical ver- tebrae. Dissection.—Dissect away the semispinalis dorsi and the semispinalis colli muscles. Clear the surfaces of the following muscles of the sixth plane of the back : the multifidus spinse in the sacral, lumbar, dorsal, and cervical regions; the intertransversales and interspinals ; the posterior aponeurosis of the trans- versals abdominis; and the levatores costarum. Trace the posterior divisions of tne lumbar and dorsal spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina ; find also the small arteries accompanying th( le nerves. 31. OTiiitifidus §pfn«e Museies, Plate 152.—These muscles, of the sixth plane of muscles, occupy the longitudinal groove between the lines of the spines and lateral tubercles of the sacrum, the spinous and articular processes of the lumbar and cervical vertebrae, the spinous and transverse processes of the 18