DEEP REGION OF THE FACE. 353 ferred to (page 351), it is included in a ring of nerve, formed by the division and reunion of the auriculo-temporal nerve (Fig. 1, Plate 188). Its intracranial portion was before de- scribed (pages 322 and 345) and illustrated (Plates 179, 185, and 186). The small meningeal artery, usually a branch of the middle meningeal, has a superior and internal course to enter the cranium, by the foramen ovale (Plate 199) in the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Dissection.—Loop (Fig. 1, Plate 188) the inferior maxillary division of the sensory root, and the motor root, of the trifacial nerve internally, and dis- play the otic ganglion. 14. Otic Ganglion, Fig. 1, Plate 188.—This ganglion, one of the cephalic ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, presents as a small (bead-like), reddish, and shining body, at the external surface of the superior portion of the tensor palati muscle; from it very minute filaments radiate. Dissection.—Section (as in Fig. 2, Plate 188) the external carotid and mid- dle meningeal arteries ; and the auriculotemporal and chorda tympani nerves. Dissect away the stumps of the superficial temporal, internal maxillary and middle meningeal arteries ; the auriculo-temporal nerve with the otic gan- glion, the chorda tympani nerve, and the internal lateral ligament of the tem- poro-maxillary articulation. Expose (Fig. 2, Plate 188) the surfaces of parts of the tensor palati, levator palati, and superior constrictor (of pharynx) mus- cles, and the internal carotid artery. Posteriorly, and externally, to the latter artery, find portions of: the styloid process of the temporal bone; the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles; the glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; and the spinal accessory nerve. 15. Internal Carotid Artery, Fig. 2, Plate 188.—The supe- rior end of the extracranial portion of this artery presents ex- ternally to the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, on its way to the orifice of the carotid canal (Plate 199), at the in- ferior face of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. 16. Tensor Palati and Levator Palati Muscles; Superior Constrictor Muscle and Fibrous Coat of the Pharynx.—The external surfaces of the superior portions of these muscles present in the triangular space bounded by : the internal ptery- goid muscle, anteriorly ; the internal carotid artery, posteri- orly ; and the cranium, superiorly. A portion of the fibrous coat of the pharynx appears between the superior constrictor and the levator palati muscles. 23