24 TKUNK. and the anterior extremity or apex of the prostate, interiorly ; it is included between two planes of fascia, the triangular liga- ment (anterior layer), exteriorly, and the levator prostata portion of the levator fascia (posterior layer of triangular liga- ment), interiorly ; it is surrounded by muscle tissue, contrib- uted by the junction of the right and left constrictor urethral muscles. Dissection.—Dissect the levator fascia from the exterior surface of the levator ani et prostata) muscle, leaving a rim of the fascia at the circumference of the pelvic outlet (Plate 9) ; distinguish the two portions of the muscle, and the convergence of the muscles, the right and the left, at their median-line raphe, posteriorly and anteriorly to the anus. 3§. Levator Ani et Prostata; Muscles, Plates 9, 45, and 46. —These muscles, the right and the left, close the outlet of the bony pelvis. A muscle, of a side, is attached, antero-posteri- orly, as follows: externally, to the interior surface of an os pubis (levator prostatas), to the open angle of the splitting of the pelvic fascia (into the recto-vesical and the obturator fas- ciae), and to the spine of the ischium (levator ani); internally, to a median line raphe and to the tendinous centre of the peri- neum (levator prostata), to the wall of the rectum (levator ani), and to the coccyx. The prostata? portions of the muscles present a subpubic interspace, which gives transit to the ure- thra, and then join to form a sling for the prostate. Their ani portions are separated for the outlet of the rectum, the anus. The levator ani portion of the muscle plane occupies the rectal region of the perineum ; externally, it is attached, antero- posterior^, to the inferior open angle—the "white line"— of splitting of the pelvic fascia—from the interior of the body of the os pubis to the spine of the ischium—and to the spine of the ischium ; internally, its fibres are attached, antero-pos- teriorly, to the tendinous centre of the perineum, to the wall of the rectum, to a median line raphe from the anus to the coccyx, and to the coccyx itself. The levator prostata part of the muscle plane is formed by its anterior portion. It is attached, anteriorly, to the in- terior of the body of the os pubis, from which the fibres pass, posteriorly, parallel with the median line, to a point opposite the interval between the urethra and the anus ; the fibres then curve to a median line raphe, which in turn is attached to the tendinous centre of the perineum. This median line junction of