2Q TRUNK. At the base line of the vesicuta seminales, recognize a thin fibrous tissue, peritoneum, bridging from the bladder to the rectum In reflecting the flap of fascia it will be found but loosely adherent to the base of the bladder, at the line of the vas deferens, the fascia splits to include this duct and the vesr- culaseminalis; external to the vesicula the fascia again becomes single, m- vesting the venous plexus and bladder. Its investiture of both bladder and rectum stops at the peritoneal cul-de-sac. 42. Prostate, Plate 12.-The inferior convex surface of this organ presents-having the shape of a heart on a playing- card-its apex anteriorly ; its base, posteriorly, with a cleft m it, for entrance of the ejaculatory ducts. 43 Peritoneal Recto-Vesical Cul-de-sac—At the superior limit of the exposed portions of the rectum and bladder the peritoneum will be seen to be reflected from one to the other, forming the bottom of a pouch of peritoneum, located between the two organs. 44 Trigone.—This name is given to a triangular area on the exterior surface of the base of the bladder-bounded by the peritoneal cul-de-sac at its base, the vasa deferentia laterally, and the cleft in the base of the prostate at its apex-because it is opposite the trigone area of the interior of the organ. Giving the same name to the two surfaces facilitates the appreciation of their relations. 45. Vasa Deferentia.—These ducts form the lateral limits of the exterior trigone area ; they pass from the apices of the base line-of the trigone, to the cleft in the base of the prostate. As they enter the prostate they receive the ducts of the ve- sicular seminales ; the joining of the two ducts, on either side, form the two ejaculatory ducts. 46. Vesicula- Seminales.—These organs lie external to, and parallel with, the vasa deferentia ; they are club shape, with their clubbed ends, posteriorly, at the base line of the trigone ; they converge, anteriorly, to the cleft in the base of the pros- tate, where, as seen above, they present ducts, which join the vasa deferentia. it Venous Plexus.—A plexus of veins presents, on either side external to, and parallel with, the prostate and vesiculffi seminales ; they are united by a transverse vein or veins along