105 FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. a long posterior lip, which are determined by the external os (mouth of the uterus) between the two. Dissection.—Trim away the broad, the ovarian, and the round ligaments from the border of the uterus; cut the Fallopian tubes two inches from the uterus. Slit open the posterior wall of the uterus from the os uteri to the fundus ; enter a 'fine probe into the stump of the Fallopian tube, and cause it to emerge into the cavity of the body of the uterus; make two additional lateral slits to the uterine openings of the Fallopian tubes; pin out the uterus thus opened (Fig. 3, Plate 57). 14. Interior of the Uterus, Fig. 3, Plate 57.—The interior of the uterus shows the organ to be about equally divided into a body and a neck portion. The cavity of the neck and the cavity of the body are readily distinguishable by the difference in the appearance of their mucous membrane. The cavity of the body is somewhat triangular, and has the Fallopian tubes opening into it at the angles of its base; at the apex of the cavity of the body is a slightly constricted portion, the in- ternal os, through which it opens into the cavity of the neck portion of the organ. The cavity of the neck is dilated at its mid-portion, and constricted at its ends, the internal os and the external os ; its interior presents a median-line longitudinal ridge upon the anterior and the posterior walls, between which its redundant mucous membrane is laid in transverse pleats upon its lateral walls, arbor mtos uterinus. The exterior of the uterus is, as before shown (page 104), partially covered by peritoneum ; the interior of its cavities are lined by mucous membrane, continuous with that of the Fallopian tubes and the vagina ; the mid-portion of the wall of the organ, between its serous and mucous membrane, is composed of involuntary muscular fibre. Dissection.—Dissect off loose fibrous tissue from the circumference of the rectum, preserving its partial investment of peritoneum, acd the arteries that distribute to it. This portion of the alimentary canal is described here, at the end of the dissection of the female pelvic organs, but the description is intended to apply to the rectum in both sexes. Eemove the oakum from the rectum, and expose its interior, by slitting it from its inferior end and folding back the two sides of the canal. 15. Rectum, Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 58.—Portions of the rec- tum presented and were described in the dissections of the organs at the pelvic outlet, male (page 27 ; Plates 11 and