ARTICULATION OF ELBOW. 313 1. Outer Lateral Ligament, Plate 174 ; Fig. 2, Plate 175. —This ligament is attached as follows: at its proximal end, to the outer surface of the outer condyle of the humerus ; at its distal end, to the orbicular ligament of the proximal radio- ulnar articulation. 2. Inner Lateral Ligament, Plate 174 ; Fig. 1, Plate 175. —This ligament is attached : at its proximal end, to the inner condyle of the humerus ; at its distal end, to the inner surfaces of the proximal end of the shaft, and the coronoid process, of the ulna. 3. Anterior Ligament, Fig. 1, Plate 174 ; Fig. 1, Plate 175.—This ligament closes in the anterior of the elbow-joint, between the borders of the lateral ligaments. It is attached : at its proximal end, to the borders of the coronoid' fossa and the radial depression of the humerus ; at its distal end, to the border of the coronoid process of the ulna, and to the orbicu- lar ligament of the proximal radio-ulnar articulation. 4. Posterior Ligament, Fig. 2, Plate 174 ; Fig. 2, Plate 175. —This ligament extends from the borders of the olecranon fossa of the humerus to the borders of the olecranon process, and the great sigmoid notch, of the ulna. Some of its outer fibres fuse with the posterior portion of the orbicular ligament of the proximal radio-ulnar articulation. AKTICULATIONS OF BADITJS AND ULNA. Dissection.—This articulation is included in, and forms a part of, the elbow- joint. Open the elbow-joint by cutting transversely its anterior and posterior ligaments, and preserving its outer and inner lateral ligaments, and the orbic- ular ligament of the proximal radio-ulnar articulation (Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 175), 1. Orbicular Ligament, Plate 174; Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 175.—This ligament consists of circular fibres, which wind around the head of radius ; its attachments are to the anterior and posterior borders of the small sigmoid cavity of ulna, and to the anterior, outer, and posterior surfaces of the neck of the radius. The proximal border of the ligament receives the fu- sion of fibres of the anterior, the outer lateral, and the pos- terior ligaments of the elbow-joint.