360 HEAD AND KECK. muscles. In infants and children it is a mere raphe, while in adults, more especially men, the development, and consequent projection, of the larynx and trachea widens it. Dissection.—Eestore the head and neck to the position shown in Plate 192. Section (Plate 192) the external jugular and facial veins, the superficial cervical, auricularis magnus, and occipitalis minor nerves, also the nerve to the trapezius muscle ; dissect away the nerves, and reflect the veins inf erioiiy. Section (Plate 192) the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle and reflect it superiorly. In reflecting the latter muscle, trace the inferior and external portion of the spinal accessory nerve into the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle ; cut out the nerve from, and find the branch of the nerve to, the muscle (Plate 194). Dissect away the internal layer of the sheath (from the splitting of the deep cervical fascia) of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, and expose (Plate 194) portions of the fol- lowing parts : the mid-tendon and fascial slip of the omo-hyoid muscle; the sterno-hyoid muscle ; the common carotid artery; the internal jugular vein ; the descendens and communicans noni nerves, with the branches of the same ; the anterior divisions of the third and fourth cervical-spinal nerves and their branches ; the phrenic nerve; portions of the ascending cervical, superficial cervical, and suprascapular arteries. Clear (Plate 194) the surfaces of portions of the scalenus anticus, rectus capitis anticus major, and sterno-thyroid mus- cles ; also the superior, and internal, portions of the splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulae, scalenus posticus, and scalenus medius muscles. 17. Spinal Accessory Nerve, Plates 194 to 197, inclusive.— This nerve appears in the neck from the internal surface, and inferior border, of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle. Inferiorly to the muscle, it gives off a branch to the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle ; it then perforates the latter muscle, obliquely, to be continued, inferiorly and externally, to its passage anteriorly to the inferior portion of the trapezius muscle, which it supplies. 1§. Omo-liyoid Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 135 ; Plates 157, 190, 192, 193, 194 and 195.—This muscle has four portions (Plates 194 and 195): an anterior belly, which has an oblique course, from the hyoid bone (Plate 190) to the mid-tendon ; a posterior belly, which passes from the mid-tendon to the point where it runs posteriorly to the external third of the clavicle, to reach the inferior attachment of the muscle (Plate 157); a mid-ten- don, which determines the anterior and posterior belly to the muscle ; from the mid-tendon a fascial slip passes, inferiorly, posteriorly to the inferior end of the sterno-hyoid muscle, to be attached to the cartilage of the first rib (page 238 ; Fig. 1, Plate 135).