HEAD AND NECK. 328 Dissection.—Kemove the subcutaneous tissue, with the curved scissors, so as to display the facial portion of the platysma myoides muscle and the risorius muscle. 2. Platysma Myoides Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 182.—The facial portion of this plane of muscle is projected, from the neck, over the border of the inferior maxillary bone—from the median line to a point posteriorly to the angle of the bone. Anteri- orly and interiorly to the symphysis of the bone, its internal fibres blend with those of its fellow of the opposite side, and some even cross the median line. Along the body of the bone some of its middle fibres are attached, while others with its external fibres continue, superiorly and internally, to the de- pressor anguli oris and orbicularis oris muscles, the fascia of the parotid region, and the zygomatic arch. 3. Risorius Muscle—This muscle consists of stray muscle fibres, which have a transverse course, from the surface of the facial portion of the platysma myoides muscle to their fusion with the orbicularis oris muscle, opposite the angle of the lips. Dissection.—Section the platysma myoides muscle, as in Fig. 2, Plate 182; reflect it and the risorius muscle, superiorly and internally, thereby exposing a thin fascia anteriorly to the facial muscles, etc. Clear off the fascia cover- ing the surfaces of the orbicularis oris (one half), depressor anguli oris, depres- sor labii inferioris (submental artery and vein), zygomaticus major, zygomati- cs minor, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and orbicularis palpebrarum muscles. Find the nasal and frontal arteries, also the supratrochlear nerve. 4. Orbicularis Oris Muscle, Fig. 2, Plate 182 ; and Plates 183, and 184.—This is a median-line, sphincter, muscle of the 15pS—its superior and inferior portions are continuous across the median line, and at the angles of the lips with each other. It is located between the subcutaneous and submucous tissue planes of the lips. Certain facial muscles centre to, and blend with, it. 5. Depressor Anguli Oris Muscle, Plate 181; Fig. 2, Plate 182; and Plate 183.—This muscle is attached: inferiorly, to the anterior surface of the body of the inferior maxillary bone, near its inferior border, and within the area of the first molar and the bicuspid teeth (Plate 181); superiorly, it blends with the inferior portion of the orbicularis oris muscle, at the angle of the lips (Fig. 2, Plate 182).