FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. 103 is about four inches in length, and terminates by a free fim- briated extremity ; one of the fimbriae being pervious. 6. Round Ligament of the Uterus.—This so-called liga- ment springs from the side of the body of the uterus ; it passes between the layers of the broad ligament, to emerge from be- neath its anterior layer. 7. Ligament of the Ovary.—This so-called ligament is pro- jected from the side of the body of the uterus, at a point be- tween the giving off of the Fallopian tube and the round liga- ment (nearer the former) ; it continues laterally, between the layers of the broad ligament, to pass out from between them, at the slit in the posterior layer of said ligament (page 102), for attachment to the internal end of the ovary. 8. Uterine Artery, Figs. 1 and 2, Plate 57.—This artery enters between the layers of the broad ligament, external to and opposite the attachment of the vagina to the uterus. It gives off an inferior branch to the exterior of the lateral wall of the vagina, and then continues parallel with and external to the lateral border of the uterus, toward the fundus of the latter; at about opposite the middle of the body of the uterus, it anas- tomoses with a branch from the ovarian artery of the side. 9. Ovarian Artery.—This artery enters between the layers of the broad ligament; it runs parallel with, and inferior to, the Fallopian tube, toward the body of the uterus. It gives off branches to the ovary and the Fallopian tube, of the side, and finally anastomoses with the uterine artery, as before shown. Its branches to the ovary pass to that organ through the slit in the posterior layer of the broad ligament (page 102). Dissection.—Detach the uterus, etc.; spread the organs out upon the board with their posterior face uppermost and pin them fast (Fig. 2, Plate 57). 10. Peritoneal Investment of the Uterus, Fig. 2, Plate 57.— The greater peritoneum, as before stated (page 102), covers the entire posterior surface of the body of the uterus and is con- tinued, inferiorly, upon the exterior of the superior end of the vagina. From the sides of the uterus it is projected, as the posterior layer of the broad ligament.