HEAD AND KECK. 386 advances into the body of the soft palate (Plate 203). At a me- dian-line, fibrous, raphe it meets its fellow of the opposite side. 5. Amending Palatine Artery, Plates 196, 200, 201, 203, and 204.—This artery (venae comites), branch of the facial ar- tery (Plate 196), has a superior course, between the stylo-glossus muscle, externally, and the superior constrictor muscle, inter- nally. A branch or branches of it penetrate the latter muscle to supply the tonsil (at times a tonsillar artery is given off directly from the facial artery). It runs to the superior border of the superior constrictor muscle, where it winds superiorly to it (Plates 200, 201, 203, and 204), to distribute to the sub- stance of the soft palate (Plate 203, left side). 6. Eustachian Tube, Plates 202 and 203.—The pharyngeal end of this canal of communication between the cavity of the middle ear and the pharynx, is partly cartilaginous and partly fibrous in structure. It is projected, internally and inferiorly ; its pharyngeal half runs along the internal side of the superior portion of the tensor palati muscle, to which it affords a par tial attachment. Its pharyngeal opening is at the superior part of a lateral wall of the pharynx, posteriorly to a posterior narium, and a little superiorly to the antero-posterior plane of the floor of a nasal cavity. Dissection.—Take the half head from the pharyngeal frame. Section (Plate 201) and cut away the right mylo-hyoid muscle ; saw the right side of the anterior of the body of the inferior maxillary bone, along the section line in Fig. 1, Plate 188. Replace the half head in the pharyngeal frame, as in Plate 204 ; put a loop in the tip of the tongue, and another around the body of the inferior maxillary bone and tie them both to the pharyngeal frame. Cut away the posterior portions of the right superior, middle, and in- ferior constrictor muscles ; then by loops, from their cut borders to the frame, bring the parts into position, as in Plate 204. Cut away the right buccinator muscle, pterygo maxillary ligament, and the anterior of the superior fibres of the superior constrictor muscle, as in Plate 204. Expose (Plate 204) the right palato-glossus muscle, and dissect the mucous membrane from the right border of the tongue. Eecognize the pillars and the tonsils of the soft palate. 7. Palato-glossus MuscBe, Plate 204.—This muscle lies in the submucous plane of the lateral wall of the posterior part of the buccal cavity, bridging, inferiorly, from the anterior of the body of the soft palate to the posterior portion of the lateral border of the tongue.