234 UPPER EXTREMITY. 98. Flexor Carpi Radialis Muscle, Plates 121, 125, and 128 to 133, inclusive.—This muscle (page 211) may now be fol- lowed to its distal attachment to the palmar surface of the base of the second metacarpal bone (Plate 321). It will be found lodged, in a special compartment, at the outer side of the space, posteriorly to the anterior annular ligament. 99. Transverse Metacarpal Ugameist, Plates 132 and 133. —This is a transverse stretch of fibrous tissue uniting the palmar metacarpophalangeal ligaments, thereby binding them together. They cover the palmar surfaces of the distal ends of the tendons of the interosseous muscles, palmar and dorsal. 100. Interosseous Muscles, Plates 122, 132, and 133.—These seven muscles—three palmar and four dorsal—are located in the four intermetacarpal spaces : the first dorsal interosseous muscle occupies the first intermetacarpal space ; the first pal- mar and the second dorsal interosseous muscles are located in the second intermetacarpal space ; the third dorsal and the second palmar interosseous are in the third intermetacarpal space ; the fourth dorsal and the third palmar interosseous ap- pear in the fourth intermetacarpal space. The three palmar appear only at the palmar surface of the metacarpal region; the four dorsal present at both the palmar and the dorsal sur- faces. The palmar interosseous have their proximal attach- ments, as follows: the first, to the inner side of the palmar surface of the second metacarpal bone ; the second and third, to the outer sides of the palmar surfaces of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, respectively. The dorsal interosseous have palmar surface attachments, as follows: the first and second, to the -outer sides of the palmar surfaces of the second and third metacarpal bones, respectively ; the third and fourth, to the inner sides of the palmar surfaces of the third and fourth metacarpal bones, respectively. (The complete dissection of the dorsal interosseous, and of the distal ends of the palmar interosseous and the lumbricales muscles are left, until the dis- section of the dorsum of the hand.) Dissection.—Section (Plate 130) the median nerve and its branches, the ulnar artery, the ulnar nerve, and its branch to the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. Out the nerves of the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis muscles (Plate 130) ; section the former of these muscles longitudinally, as it is in Fig. 1, Plate 134, and dissect its outer portion from the anterior surfaces of