89 ABDOMINAL VISCERA OUT OF THE BODY. and duodenum, and anastomoses with the superior pancreatico- duodenal branch of the gastro-duodenal artery. 12. Pancreatic Duct, Plates 49 and 36. — This duct is lodged in the posterior and superior portion of the gland ; in its course from the tail of the organ it receives contributing ductlets ; in the head of the pancreas it may present two por- tions, the duct proper and an accessory duct (Fig. 2, Plate 49). The duct proper, as previously stated (pages 67 and 88), joins the ductus communis choledochus, before the latter perforates the coats of the duodenum, the two emptying into the gut by a common opening (Plate 36 and Fig. 1, Plate 49). The acces- sory duct may open into the duct proper, or, by a distinct opening of its own, into the duodenum ; the pancreatic duct proper may, in turn, empty into the duodenum by a special orifice, independent of the ductus communis choledochus. Dissection.—Separate the spleen from the fundus of the stomach, pre- serving the vessels of the former in continuity with it. Clear away the vessels at the curvatures and fundus of the stomach, slit the organ from its oesophageal orifice along its lesser curvature to within two inches of the pylorus ; invert the pylorus and examine its interior appearance. 13. Interior of the Stomach, Fig. 1, Plate 50.—As the in- terior of the stomach lies exposed, the mucous membrane, at its oesophageal end and at the fundus, is smooth, while that of its body and pylorus is thrown into folds or rugce, which run longitudinally and transversely. The communication of the organ with the duodenum is guarded by a valve—the pyloric ; the latter is formed by the thickening of the coats of the organ, more especially the mucous membrane ; the opening, as seen inverted, is a circular constriction. Dissection.—Dissect the pancreas from the duodenum; slit the latter open from end to end, and lay it out mucous membrane upwards. 14. Interior of the Duodenum, Fig. 2, Plate 50.—Observe the development of the valvulse conniventes from their com- mencement in the descending portion (page 64), to their full definition in the transverse or oblique portion. In the ascend- ing and descending portions, the minute prominences of Brun- ner's glands may be seen. The orifices of the ductus communis choledochus and of the accessory pancreatic duct appear in the descending portion, as before indicated (page 88 ; Plate 48).