PLANTAR REGION OF THE FOOT. 147 Dissection.—Cut the proximal attachments of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle and reflect it, in a distal direction, from the plantar surface of the first metatarsal bone and the fifth digital artery. Section the muscle into its two heads, through the furrow for the flexor longus pollicis muscle. Eaise the fifth and sixth digital arteries and turn them upon the tarsus. Determine the compound flexor brevis pollicis tendon as formed by the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle, the abductor pollicis, the adductor pollicis, and the transversus pedis muscles. Note the sesamoid bones included in the com- pound tendon ; and, the ligament that attaches the proximal border of these bones to the plantar surface of the head of the first metatarsal bone. 62. Compound Flexor Brevis Pollicis Tendon, Plates 75, 81; Fig. 1, Plate 82.—The heads of the flexor brevis pollicis muscle have two distal tendons, which are united by fibrous tissue : the inner is joined by the tendon of the abductor pollicis muscle; the outer receives the adductor pollicis and the transversus pedis muscles. Each compound tendon con- tains a sesamoid bone ; the two bones being lodged, respec- tively, upon the inner and outer tuberosities of the plantar sur- face of the head of the first metatarsal bone. To the distal side of the sesamoid bones the compound tendon is attached to the plantar and lateral digital surfaces of the base of the phalanx of the pollex digit. To the borders of the sesamoid bones is attached the plantar metatarso-phalangeal ligament (page 180). Dissection.—Section the muscles near the sesamoid bones; cut the liga- ment from the latter to the first metatarsal bone, and turn the bones on end upon the base of the phalanx of the pollex digit (Fig. 1, Plate 82). Trace the terminal portion of the deep branch of the external plantar nerve. 63. Nerves to the Second and First Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, Fig. 1, Plate 82.—The terminal portion of the deep branch of the external plantar nerve lies upon the plantar sur- face of the interosseous muscles, where it bifurcates to supply the second and first dorsal interosseous muscles. Dissection.-Trace the plantar arch through the metatarsal region and note its branches. Keplace the fifth and sixth digital arteries. 64. Plantar Arch of the External Plantar Artery, Plate 82. —The plantar arch is formed by the deep branch of the external plantar artery; the artery curves as it enters the metatarsal re- gion, opposite the base of the fourth metatarsal bone, and con- tinues to the proximal end of the first intermetatarsal space