127 ANTERIOR OF LEG AND DORSUM OE FOOT. the shaft of the tibia ; its tendon commences at the distal third of the leg, passing upon the outer surface of the distal end of the tibia. It is included in a special compartment of the ante- rior annular ligament, posteriorly to which it enters upon the inner side of the dorsum of the foot, where it is continued into the plantar plane of the foot, at the distal third of the tarsal region. 16. Extensor Longus IMgitorum Muscle, Fig. 1, Plate 67 ; Plates 68, 71, and 72.—This muscle is attached to the proxi- mal three-fourths of the inner surface of the fibula ; its initial tendon passes posteriorly to the anterior annular ligament; upon the dorsum of the tarsal region it divides into four ter- minal tendons, which pass to be attached to the dorsal surfaces of the bases of the phalangines and phalangettes of the digits, second to fourth, inclusive. The latter attachments will be dissected later (page 1.50 ; Figs. 2 and 3, Plate 82). 17. Peroneus Tertius Muscle.—This muscle has its proxi- mal attachment to the distal portion of the inner surface of the fibula (it seems like a continuation of the last-described mus- cle) : its tendon passes posteriorly to the anterior annular liga- ment, to the outer side of the outer terminal tendon of the ex- tensor longus digitorum. It has a distal course, along the outer side of the tarsal region, to its distal attachment to the dorsal surface of the fifth metatarsal bone. 18. Extensor Proprius Poll h is Muscle.—This muscle has its proximal attachment to the middle of the inner side of the fibula ; at the distal third of the leg it emerges from between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum muscles. Its tendon passes, posteriorly to the anterior annular ligament, to the dorsum of the foot; it then has a distal course—upon the astragalus, the scaphoid, the internal cuneiform, the first metatarsal, and the phalanx of the first digit—to its distal at- tachment at the dorsal surface of the base of the phalangette of the first or pollex digit. Dissection.—Expose the pollex tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, the dorsalis pedis artery and veins, and the anterior tibial nerve, as lodged in the inner intertendinous space—between the tendon of the extensor