21 MALE PERINEUM. dorsal artery and nerve, upon the exterior of the body of the 03 pubis. Dissection.—Section the triangular ligament (Fig. 1, Plate 8), and reflect its portions; laterally, to the pubic arch; posteriorly, so as to retain its con- tinuity with the bis-ischiatic fascial junction; this will display the deep peri- neal vessels, and a portion of the deep perineal nerve. These elements will be found to lie upon the exterior surface of the deep transversus perincei and the constrictor urethras muscles. 27. Deep Perineal Artery, Fig. 2, Plate 8.—This artery (vena comes) is one of the branches of bifurcation of the pudic ; it runs parallel with, and internal to, the pubic arch, in a plane interior to the triangular ligament; it bifurcates into the artery of the crus and thedorsalis penis artery, as described above. 28. Artery of the Bulb—This artery (vena comes) is a branch of the deep perineal, which passes internally and anteriorly, to perforate the triangular ligament and distribute to the corpus spongiosum. As it enters the part it bifurcates, into a posterior branch to the bulb and an anterior branch to the body. 29. Artery to Cowper's Oland—In its course the artery of the bulb gives off a branch, which passes, internally and pos- teriorly, to a point posterior to the bulb of the corpus spongio- sum, where it pierces the deep transversus peringei muscle to distribute to the gland, which lies interior to the muscle. 30. Deep Perineal Nerve—This nerve lies between the deep perineal artery and the ramus of the pubic arch ; it runs for a portion of its course interior to the pubic arch attach- ments of the deep transversus perinsei and constrictor uretkrse muscles ; it is the branch of the pudic nerve, which continues the trunk into the urethral region ; piercing the triangular liga- ment, it becomes the dorsalis penis nerve, as described above. Dissection.—Section the deep perineal artery (Fig. 2, Plate 8), and re- flect it and its branches internally across the corpus spongiosum; clear the surface of the muscles upon which the artery lies. 31. Deep Transversus Perinaei Muscle This muscle con- sists of transverse fibres, which run, parallel with and anterior to the base of the triangular ligament, from the tuberosity of