120 LOWEK EXTREMITY. 47. Iliacus Interims Muscle, Plates 59, 61 to 65 inclusive, and Fig. 1, Plate 91.—The abdominal portion of this muscle was described (page 82), and illustrated (Plates 38 to 41 inclusive, and Plate 44), in situ ; its abdominal attachment was before shown (Plate 42, and Fig. 1, Plate 45). The muscle is projected from the abdominal cavity, beneath Poupart's ligament, into the anterior plane of the thigh. It bridges over the hip-joint, exterior to the anterior portion of its capsular ligament, and it is attached to the antero-inner surfaces of the proximal end of the shaft of the femur, near the trochanter minor. 48. Psoas Magnus Muscle: Plates 59, 65 ; Fig. 1, Plate 66 ; Fig. 1, Plate 91.—The abdominal portion of this muscle was described (page 82), and illustrated (Plates 38 to 41 inclusive) in situ; its abdominal attachment was before shown (Plates 42, 43, and 44). The muscle enters the thigh to the inner side, and parallel with, the iliacus internus, and is attached to the femur at the posterior surface of the trochanter minor. 49. Quadratus Fein oris Muscle: Plates 59, 65 ; Fig. 2, Plate 66 ; and Fig. 1, Plate 91.—A portion of the anterior face of this muscle appears proximal to, and in a plane posterior to, the border of the adductor magnus muscle. Between it and the adductor magnus a branch from the internal circumflex ar- tery passes to the posterior plane of the thigh. 50. Semimembranosus Muscle, Plates 64 and 65.—At the inner side of the distal third of the thigh, a portion of the an- terior surface of this muscle appears in the distal angle between the gracilis and the adductor magnus muscles. Dissection.—Section the iliacus interims and the psoas magnus muscles close to their attachments to the femur; reflect them, superiorly, to the brim of the pelvis, where they may be cut; note a large bursa beneath them which should be preserved. Clear the surface of the obturator externus muscle, and determine the proximal portions of the obturator vessels and nerve. 51. Bursa of the Psoas and Iliacus Muscles, Fig. 1, Plate 66.—A large bursa presents between the psoas magnus and iliacus internus muscles and the capsular ligament of the hip- joint ; it sometimes communicates with the interior of the joint.